

GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
HIT ■ • FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCIIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
IT IS NOT COMPULSORY
/ but it is wise, if an advance of money is required, to go to
The IM.S.W. Mont de Piete D. & I. Co. Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney 74.
186 Castlereagta Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Mi
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BEHNETT,
General Manager,
Money Advanced upon AH Classes of Security at Lowest Kates of interest.
EE
m
v
ml
mu
< w
Doctors Recommend
GILBEY’S DRY GIN
EEOBArtT.
Ijadleys Orient botei.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING •■•V.
Guarantebd
J. C. Luciowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Take it back*
have
1 must
t
s
HUTTON
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HA N S E NS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
F
t
t
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
If you want your home to possess individuality—
to be different from the ordinary, every-day home-
let us suggest that you panel the best rooms with
Amiwud. This new product is made to take the
place of the costly Hardwood which our parents
used. It is really imitation Hardwood, with all the
beauty of the grain faithfully reproduced by a new
process. It is made in large sheets, which anyone
can put up and finish off. Its fixing calls for no
expert knowledge.
Beautifies Homes.
Amiwud can be had in Golden Oak, Jenisero,
Weathered Oak, or Mahogany, in sheets
7ft. 6in. x 2ft., or Oft. Oin. x 2ft.; Battens for
the panelling to correspond.
A Room finished in Amiwud is nearly furnished.
It looks comfortable. It feels cosy and good. The
Amiwud sheets can be nailed directly to the stud-
ding or rafters, with Amiwud battens over the
joints, or they can be fixed to brick or plaster walls,
or to plaster ceilings. Whatever the method, the
result is an artistic finish in hardwood panel effect.
Let us send you samples and prices.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
(D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager,),
CHALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY
MANUFACTURERS OF MALTHOID.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
9M
Safeguard your interests. Tie on the side of the
“majority,” and you will be “liberal” in your praise of
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machinery.
Moffat-Virtue Machinery holds the "votes” of the
Australian Pastoralist and Shearer for highest efficiency
and economical maintenance!
Send for Catalogue “0.A.”
JKbJIal-Virlueitt
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
352 Kent St. (near King st.), Sydney.
-' I DON SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
——2mL=z£arijL£kculation. 3rd—Rapid elimiLation. Phi nip st., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Y01.34.—N0. 1741.]
[Thursday, June 26, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOVELS for WINTER EVENINGS
Bound in Cloth. Offered at Is. each, posted Is. 3d.
THE METROPOLIS, by Upton Sinclair.
The Money-Changers, by Upton Sinclair.
Old Gorgon Graham, by G. H. Lorimer.
Members of the Family, hy Owen Wister.
In Name of Liberty, by O. Johnson.
Dragon Painter, by M. Fenolossa.
Reaanov, by Gertrude Atherton.
Younger Set, by R. W. Chambers.
Raiderland, by S. R. Crockett.
Enderby, by Bertha Shelley.
Double Trouble, by H. Quick.
Cloak ot Convention, by L. Moore.
We are offering Thousands of Novels at Is. and Is. (Id. each. Write for List, Post Free, to any address
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y, LTD., 2JS PITT STREET, SYDNEY
FOR. THE VOICE! THROAT ! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says: "Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as Is Creosote.”
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins 1/6,
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers,
Hudson's Eumenthol
[3 Box 1520 G.P.O.
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
17 York Street, SYDNEY.
The Psychology of Revolution
The Red Page
Gustave le Bon, author of that interesting
piece of psychology, The Crowd, a study of
the mind of the mob, attempts, in
The Psychology of Revolution (Unwin,
per Sydney Book Club), the difficult
task of analysing the mind of the
revolutionist. Naturally, this French psycho-
logist basis his study on the French Revo-
lution. Le Bon applies to this Revolution
his hypothesis that the crowd has a soul
distinct from that of its component indivi-
duals, that it is swayed not by rational
logic, but by “affective logic, collective logic
and mystic logic” which overrule the reason
of the individual unit. He finds in the
French Revolution “events engendered by
psychological laws working with the regu-
larity of clockwork.”
The actors in this great drama seem to
move like the characters of a previously de-
termined drama. Each says what he must
say, acts as he is bound to act. The actors
in the revolutionary drama differed from
those of a written drama in that they had
not studied their parts, hut these were dic-
tated by invisible forces. Precisely because
they were subjected to the inevitable pro-
gression of logics incomprehensible to them
we see them as greatly astonished by the
events of which they were the heroes as we
are ourselves. Never did they suspect the
invisible powers which forced them to act.
They were the masters neither of their fury
nor their weakness. They spoke in the name
of reason, pretending to be guided by reason,
but in reality it was by no means reason
that impelled them.
“The decisions for which we are so greatly
reproached,” wrote Billaud-Varenne, “were
more often than otherwise not intended or
desired by us two days or even one day be-
forehand : the crisis alone evoked them.”
And the power of the Revolution did not
reside in the principles enunciated —not at
all novel in themselves —but in the fact that
it founded not a new system of government
but a new religion. History has shown us
the tremendous power of a new religion.
The man hypnotised by his faith becomes an
apostle, ready to sacrifice his own interests,
his happiness, and even his life for the
triumph of his faith. And the French Revo-
lution was such a new religion. It showed,
too, by the intolerance of its fanatical de-
votees, by the violence, hatred and persecu-
tion to which it gave rise, all the signs of a
new religion.
J* V • *
It is, curiously, the very conservative
peoples who have the most violent revolu-
tions. Being conservative, they are not able
to evolve slowly, or to adapt themselves to
variations of environment, so that when the
discrepancy becomes too extreme, they have
to adapt themselves suddenly. A revolu-
tion of Bruce Smiths would beat any
Mexican rebellion for violence, hatred and
sudden death. Conservative Ulster is liable
to explode with a tremendous bursting of
wide-vested interests. A rebellion of Wow-
sers, with the head of Norman Lindsay
borne aloft on a gimlet, would be the most
tremendous cataclysm in history. Le Bon
draws an instructive parallel between the
Reformation in Europe and the French
Revolution. Both were great religious revo-
lutions, and in both we find the frenzy and
the intolerance of the religious fanatic.
Calvin was as intolerant as Robespierre.
And:—
There were probably as many theologians
and orators in the time of Moloch, to prove
the utility of human sacrifices, as there were
at other periods to glorify the Inquisition,
the massacre of St. rflartholomew and the
hecatombs of the Terror.
But though forms of government are
easily changed, the soul of a people remains
untouched. The elements of social organisa-
tion do not perish: the bulk of the people
remains swayed by hereditary influences, top
deeply rooted in the individual soul to be
reached by systems of government. France,
despite her changes in government, does not
live in a state of anarchy. Her economic,
industrial and even her political life mani-
fests a continuity that seems independent of
all revolutions and governments. Revolu-
tions change nothing 'but the label. The
ancestral soul of a people rules over its des-
tiny.
Wha-t is it that transforms, in a time of
revolution, kindly honest citizens into blood-
thirsty fanatics? What is the power that
might conceivably change Joe Cook into a
Robespierre? Every individual possesses,
besides his habitual mentality, which is con-
stant as long as his environment does mot
alter, various possibilities of character which
may be evoked by passing events. Our ego
consists of the association of innumerable
cellular egos, the residues of ancestral per-
sonalities. In a time of insurrection, the
equilibrium of these various clashing egos is
broken, and a new personality is formed.
For this reason the actors in great religi-
ous and political crises often seem of a
different essence to ourselves: yet they do
not differ from us; the repetition of the same
events would bring back the same men.
The crowd-soul is responsible for the
carrying out of revolutions. Le Ron’s theorj
is that man, as part of a multitude, is a verj
different being from the same man as an
isolated individual. His conscious person-
ality vanishes in«the unconscious personality
of the crowd. Every one of us who has been
in an election or a Mafficking crowd knows
how the combined emotionalism eats away
his own individuality; and cautious citizens
will, even in a club, offer thousands for
Dreadnoughts where, interviewed separately,
not one would have opened his cheque-book.
So in religious revivals people are converted
by the contagion of a crowd of hymn-singers.
Crowds are credulous, extremely sensitive,
short-sighted, and utterly beyonds the argu-
ments of reason. “Affirmation, contagion,
repetition and prestige constitute almost the
only means of persuading them. The multi-
tude will admit everything; nothing is im-
possible in the eyes of the crowd.” Any
election meeting during the recent trouble
will confirm this. In a crowd the individual
man descends to a very low degree in the
scale of civilisation. He becomes an emo-
tion-swayed savage. This fact may explain
some otherwise inexplicable happenings in,
say, the N.S.W. State Parliament. Even
legislators are a mob. So is a Synod.
So, granting that the French Revolution
was an attempt at the foundation of a new
religion, even if this religion had no goddess
but Reason, the necessary fury and de-
vastation naturally followed. Such acts are
always the accompaniments of the birth of
religions. But the Terror had this curious
effect. Things happened as if the Terror
terrorised no one. The prospect of the guil-
lotine no longer terrified people habituated
to the existence of the guillotine. “Terror
is an efficacious psychological process, so
long as it does not last. The real terror
resides far more in threats than in their
realisation.” And the marvellous success of
the French revolutionary armies can be ex-
plained only on the ground that these ragged
troops felt that they were the apostles of a
new religion, destined to regenerate the
world. They were the new nomads of Arabia
with a new Mohammedism. And it was the
force of discipline that gave this crowd its
wonderful victories, while the undisciplined
crowds of Paris made all stable government
impossible.
The question arises how a government so
tyrannical and so hated could survive for 10
years? It was because of the vested inter-
ests which had arrived during the revolu-
tion, and by its termination would have been
lost. A large portion of the population had
a direct material interest in maintaining the
status quo. The new religion did not long
remain in the domain of pure theory.
The Revolution did not confine itself to
despoiling the monarchy, the nobility and
the clergy of their powers of government. In
throwing into the hands of the bourgeoisie
and the large numbers of peasantry the
wealth and the employments of the old
privileged classes, it had at the same stroke
turned them into obstinate supporters of the
revolutionary system. All those who had
acquired the property of which the nobles
and clergy had been despoiled had obtained
lands and chateaux at low prices, and were
terrified lest the restoration of the monarchy
should force them to make general restitu-
tion.
Napoleon was welcomed because of his
promise to maintain not only the moral but
the material conquests of the Revolution.
Thus, instead of terminating the Revolution,
he ratified and consolidated it.
The net result of the French Revolution
is quite other than the ideals that inspired
it. Instead of the supreme power being in
one hand, it is now distributed among
thousands of hands. France to-day is
governed by heads of departments and
government clerks. “A tyrant can be over-
thrown, but what can be done against a
host of little anonymous tyrannies?”
The extension of the tyranny of the State
has therefore been the final result of all our
revolutions. This form of tyranny may be
regarded as a racial ideal, since successive
upheavals of France have only fortified it.
Statism is the real political system of the
Latin peoples, and the only system that
receives all suffrages. The other forms of
government—republic, monarchy, empire—
represent empty labels, powerless shadows.
And Gustave Le Bon appends this moral:
The French Revolution was not useless,
since it provided the painful example neces-
sary for the education of humanity.
Without the Revolution it would have
been difficult to prove that pure reason does
not enable us to change human nature, and,
consequently, that no society can be rebuilt
by the will of legislators, however absolute
their power.
A curiously unequal book, occasionally
vague and specious, and in its foreign
references not always reliable, yet stimu-
lating for its emphasis of the idea that re-
volutions are subject to the same laws of
cause and effect as are any other phenomena
of the social evolution.
The Australian Corelli
More in gladness than in anger her
publishers proclaim Lindsay Russell, the
Australian author of Smouldering Fires,
published in Australia and now in its eighth
edition, “The Australian Corelli.” Souls in
Pawn, her latest Corellism (Ward. Lock),
is set in this continent, and has for villain
a wicked Roman Catholic priest, and for
hero a noble Roman Catholic priest, and
the heroine is seduced by the villain and
ultimately married by the hero. Quite
Corellian, isn’t it? The good young priest
meets the nice girl on shipboard, and by
page 16, “unconsciously his hand closed on
hers”; by page 22 he “put his arm around
her shaking shoulders,” and “one hand went
out and sought bers, the other gently
smoothed back the fair, loosened hair from
her forehead, as he might a child”; by page
28 “words tumbled forth from his lips, in-
coherent, burning words”; by the next page,
“his hand went out and rested on hers”; and
on the next “suddenly he put both hands on
her shoulders, looking down into her face.
‘Oh, beloved!’ he whispered. Held by some-
thing more solemn than the moment, they
stood for what seemed a lifetime of silence,
then bending down he kissed her, feeling the
sudden responsiveness of her lips against
his —the sudden rain of her tears.” Also,
“he bent and kissed her again.” And then,
“Father Daventry stood, clearly outlined in
his priest’s garb, his face turned resolutely
shorewards.” For the nice young priest was
going to Rome, and the nice girl was going
back to Australia. And both were going to
forget. She went back to the parish where
lived the drunken priest who had seduced
her. He was so drunken that some parish-
ioners protested; and the Bishop came up
to investigate. An admirable but unfor-
tunately quite un-Corellian scene of comedy
takes place when the Bishop faces the
abashed deputation of the congregation, and
suavely smoothes over the little unpleasant-
ness. Happily, however, the rest of the
book soars into unadulterated Corellism. It
is written in spasms like these: —
He was not free.
The fetters of the Church bound him —fet-
ters that would not give.
They held out to him an idol —a faded,
worthless unreality.
He must go on—bound and fettered—the
sanctuary of his soul for ever desolate....
So the Reverend Lawrence Daventry,
coming quietly from the sacristy to the car-
peted altar, saw her, the shaft of sunlight
from the window behind her falling upon
her kneeling figure....
But now she was awake—no longer
dreaming.
All those dreams lay shrivelled, dead.
Like the dead roses of the past summer,
they would bloom no more. Something
might come again—never they. On the
withered stalk of her life would come no
second blossoming.
The bitter, black frost of Fate had left
its last and fatal insignia of d00m....
All perfectly in key, all beautifully Corel-
lian. Wowsers will gulp it in one sitting.
If only Lindsay Russell will- refrain from
her slight sense of character and any temp-
tation to utilise her sense of humor, and
keep solely to “the curse of celibacy” and
the Roman Catholic Church, there is no
reason why she should not reach the circu-
lation of Marie Corelli. But she must be
careful always to make her hero and her
villain Roman Catholic priests.
Not for the general reader is Marcus
Hartog’s Problems of Life and Reproduc-
tion, in Murray's “Progressive Science
Series,” since Hartog is necessarily highly
technical. His aim in these interesting
essays is “to give a short account of some
of the chief discoveries bearing on Life and
Reproduction, and to show bow all the facts
may be welded into a coherent and con-
sistent theory.” The most interesting
chapter deals with what the author terms a
new force, and nanies “mitokinetism.” This
is the force that compels the living cell to
divide and thus develop. Attempts to ex-
plain this division of the cell as due to
osmotic force, statical electricity, etc., fail;
and the author concludes that the cell-field
shows the greatest analogy in its formation
and behavior to the electrostatic field
between oppositely charged conductors; but
that the force is no more electrostatic force
than it is any of the other known dual
forces. This new foree, he asserts, is not
known in the organic world, and is only
found Within the organism. The author
believes strongly in the transmission of
acquired characters; and certainly advances
much evidence in favor of the theory. The
chapter on “Fertilisation” gives the latest
results of research into this difficult sub-
ject. And there is the long-delayed appre-
ciation by a man of science of the high
value of the biological writings of Samuel
Butler.
A. S. M, Hutchinson shows in The Happy
Warrior (Rivers, per Dymock's Library
Sydney), that one can write a popular novel
and yet put into it good work. This de
lightful story of the open air has all the
necessary ingredients of romance, humor
and adventure; but the author adds to
these sufficiencies for popular favor literarv
craftsmanship of a high order, a poetic
atmosphere, sentiment that is not merely
sentimental, and even ventures to end with
the inevitably conditioned tragedy Com-
pared with The Amateur Gentleman, The
Happy Warrior is the real thing'to the imi-
tation. With two such books to his credit
as Once Aboard the Lugger and The Happy
Warrior, this novelist has firmly laid the
foundations of a permanent edifice in English
fiction.
One would have imagined it impossible to
make a collection from the “Aboriginalities"
columns of The Bulletin that would be
dull. Charles H. Bertie, in Aboriginalities
(N.S.W. Bookstall, Is.), has achieved the
impossible. Five-sixths of this collection
would have some difficulty in squeezing into
the present columns devoted to back-blocks
lies. Charles H. Bertie states that he has
made an attempt to minister to every taste.
It is a-poor attempt. A partial excuse lies
in the fact that these aboriginalities have
been culled solely from early issues of The
Bulletin. The “Abo” column became a
permanent feature of this paper in 1898.
and the items collected by Charles H. Bertie
have been taken from the issues of that and
of the three following years. Unless C. H.
Bertie’s sense of humor has been removed
by a surgical operation, the only pos-
sible explanation is that our aboliars have
improved with the practice of their profes-
sion. Still, the collection would have had.
at least, an historical value if the editor had
identified each paragraph with the pen-name
of its author; but Charles H. Bertie has
sent these lame and decrepit lies out with-
out the name of their owners on the dog-
collar. He alleges a preposterous reason:
“for their safety.”
Two ex-Australians, Miles Franklin
(author of My Brilliant Career ) and Alioe
Henry, once of Melb. Argus, find con-
genial work as joint editors of Life and
Labor, a brilliantly edited and well-pro-
duced illustrated U.S. monthly, devoted
chiefly to the laboring woman of America.
The sub. is one dollar a year.
An extremely valuable work is Cabinet
Timbers of Australia, by R. T. Baker, Cura-
tor of the Sydney Technological Museum,
published in a most artistic manner by the
N.S.W. Govt. Printer. A glance at this
authoritative and complete volume surprises
the average reader with the wealth of beau-
tiful timbers provided by our forests, speci-
ally suitable for cabinet work. The most
interesting feature of the book is the photo-
graphic reproduction in color of slabs ot
every species of our beautiful woods. Hus
work is so well done that the picture looks
as realistic as the actual timber. lhe
letterpress subordinates the technical de-
scription of the woods to their practical use
for cabinet work ; and many illustrations are
added showing fittings already in use in our
public buildings and private _ residences.
This, but one of the productions ot tae
Sydney Technological Museum, shows tha
it is doing more patriotic and more valuaoie
work for the Commonwealth than any dozen
legislators.
In Masters in Modern German Literature
(Carl Reissner, Dresden, 65.) Otto Edua
Lessing, of the Illinois Umversitj, t
adequately of the modern literary movement,
and in a series of thoughtful essays pla ,
in that movement Liliencron, Lenin •
Hauptmann. Holz. Heinrich Mann ana
Thomas Mann. The German printer is
responsible, however, for a slight dimcu i.
in readings as typographically the Lug
translation is set up as if it were Germ •
At last a theatre has been opened solely
for the production of one-act P^ a y s ;,
Princess Theatre, New York, about
of the New York Little Theatre, possess®
a good company of actors, and its °P en
bill —four one-acters —revealed uw
possibilities of this, in Australia, negl
form of dramatic art.
SLUMBER SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Put on your snowy riding gown
And catch the one-legged nag
That prances sloxcly up and down
Without a tail to wag.
Then mount and urge him while you mao
With eager heel and hand, my
Down every little sleepy way
That winds to oredle-land.
And if he wearies by the track
His brother runs beside
To take you safely on his back
Though you should never guide.
Then let the Dustman go before
Through fairy field and stream
Until the lights of Slumber Shore
Glint down the Sea of Dream.
And Cinderella, shy 80-Peep,
Boy Blue and all the rest
Will lift you down in golden sleep..
Into the Mother Breast.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE,


<ace
Aptbopy Horderns* for Fashion & Economy
No. 995.—Perfectly-cut
Tailor-made Skirt, in
fine Black or Navy Serge Coat-
ing, high waist, two-piece,
inverted lapped seams on hips,
cable stitching and plain Bone
Buttons at foot .... 17/G
905
No. 905.—Smart, Three-
piece Skirt, perfectly tai-
lored from fine Black or
Navy Serge Coating, finished
shaped, lapped seams, Self
Buttons, and pleats at
foot ...i 21/-
No. 685.—We11-cut Skirt,
two-piece, high waisted, in
good quality Panama, Cream
only, pleated at foot, lapped
seams, Mohair Buttons 17/6
'
MOSCOW
The Moscow.—Kolinski
Two Strand Stole, made
from 12 selected skins, fin-
ished with tails and paws—
£9/9/-
No. 105. —Knitted Golf
Coat, in Norfolk shape, j-
leng'th; single front, finished
strap at waist, in brown sac.
Reseda, Cardinal, Navy, Black
and Cream 11/9
X OO 5
No. X 0 0 5.—S tyl i s h
Tailor-made Skirt, cut
in three-piece shape from
smart Black and Grey Diago-
nal Striped Tweed; inveiled
lapped seams, rounded off
from centre front, plain
back 16/6
Fifteen Shillings expended at Anthony
Horderns’ New Palace Emporium will
go further than a sovereign spent
elsewhere. Be wise! pop your orders
in the post and reap the full benefit of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
(Mi
ivl
0
-*
117
2Si*,P.
3SS2K
:
Bf#t
979
i-
■* 6£9
4008
No. 117. — Shirt Blouse of Striped
Flannelette, all colors, fastens at
front 3/6
No. 979.-—Blouse, Check Delaine,
trimmed self border to match and small
Pearl buttons, fastens back, Grey, Navy,
Saxe, Sky and Black 8/9
No. 829.—Blouse, Fancy Delaine, White
Net yoke, finished Silk Braid, trimmed
centre front and cuffs with Paisley bor-
der to'match, Helio, Grey, Reseda, Saxe,
Navy and Black 7/9
No. 4008. — Smart Shirt Blouse, of
Fancy Delaine, white grounds, colored
stripes, Helio, Black,- Grey, Saxe, Rose
and Reseda 8/11
Our Illustrated Price Lists place the
immense resources of Australia’s
Mammoth Store at the command of
everyone. Write for copies of any-
thing you want, post free on request;
THEY WILL SAVE YOU SOVS.
The May.—Black, Foxa-
line Throwover, with
brushes—
-13/11, 10/11, 18/6, 25/-
7504
No. 7504.—Smart Skirt,
of Fashionable Donegal effect
Tweed, four-piece, 2} yards
wide, Grey, Green and Brown
Mixtures 10/G
65/
No. 651. —A Smart, New
Skirt, cut in four-piece
shape from fine Cream Coat-
ing Serge, smartly seamed,
and finished Cream Bone
Buttons 16/6
No. 605.—Tailor-111 a<l e
Walking: Sitirt, in use-
ful winter-weight Cheviot
Serge, Black or Navv, three-
piece, buttoning down centre
front 12/6
467
No. 467.—Magyar Blouse,
Cream Japanese Silk-trimined
yoke of fancy Beading, finely
tucked, envelope front, fin-
ished small Pearl buttons,
three-quarter sleeves 14/6
No. 80509.—Dressy Cos-
tume Skirt, in fine Black
or Navy Panama, four-piece,
ordinary waist, panel back,
Silk Military Braid and But-
tons 16/6
All skirts stocked 37 to 44
inch lengths, and 22 to 27
inch waists. Out sizes, 2/6
extra.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MR. EDISON’S
BLUE AMBEROL
Record is Now Ready
Have you heard it? —the Blue Amberol Record. It is Thomas A. Edison’s latest
invention —-practically unbreakable, wear proof, and tests at the factory have proved
that it can be played over 3800 times without any deterioration of its wonderful
tone qualities.
The
AMBEROLA.
Used in conjunction with Blue Am-
berol Records, the Amberola becomes
an ideal entertainer, far and away
superior to all other sound-reproduc-
ing instruments. The combination
results in a greater sweetness, beauty
and richness of tone, giving a wealth
of melody sufficient to reach every
part of the largest room, yet modu-
lated and controlled so splendidly
that it is not out of place in a small
apartment.
Hear the Amberola Phonograph play-
ing Blue Amberol Records to-day, at
the nearest Edison Store.
It has a greater volume of sound
than other Records, and a more life-
like quality of reproduction—giv-
ing clearness and roundness of tone,
resonance to the lower notes, and
delicacy and steadiness to the
highest soprano voice.
The first issue of Edison Blue
Amberol Records was made on the
19th inst. It consisted of 38 new
numbers, and if you have not yet
heard your choice of these, you
should go along at once to your
dealer, choose the items you think
you would like, and have him play
them over for you. This will con-
vince you of the pronounced superi-
ority of the Blue Amberol over all
other Records.
We have just issued a handsome
catalogue of Edison Blue Amberol
Records, and will be pleased to post
you a copy of it at once, if you
will send us your name and ad-
dress.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364 = 372 KENT ST.,
SYDNEY.
S 3
■*vs
3
m
ZJ
ri
xJ
BRAIN FAC
anaemia
A. case /or Wincamis
Xi-si
>A case for Wincamis
I
r
r
\l
ft
til!
:-?
M
c-^\
j - - ;
SPSS
:*> <1
//
m
WEAKNESS
A case /or Wincarn/s
SLEEPLESSNESS
“A /qt Wincamis “
*7-
DON’T SUFFER NEEDLESSLY
If you suffer from Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Brain-fag, Weakness, Nerve
Troubles, Exhaustion, etc., “Wincarnis” will give you prompt relief. You
need suffer no longer. Commence taking “Wincarnis” to-day. You will find
yourself getting stronger after each wineglassful. And as you continue
taking your “Wincarnis” you will feel it surcharging your whole .system
with renewed health, vigor, vitality, and new life. The reason is, that
is a tonic, restorative, blood maker and nerve food. Its first
effect is to stimulate the heart, revitalise the blood and soothe
the nerves. Then it creates new, rich blood, which is carried
by the circulation all over the body, to repair the
wasted tissue, restore the lost vitality, feed the nerves,
Will Give
You
and make the whole system pulsate with new h e -
That is why “Wincarnis” gives new life to the
invalid, renewed strength to the weak, increased vigor
to brainworkers, and a wealth of health to every-
one.
RENEWED HEALTH, VIGOR, VITALITY and NEW LIFE.
To-day is the best day to commence taking “ Wincarnis.” Buy a bottle to-day from your Wine Merchant
or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and test its Marvellous Strengthening Properties.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT (Q. JOHNSON, 5 (SI 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY.
COLEMAN (EL CO., Wincarnis WorKs, NORWICH, ENG. k
Business, Robbery, etc
“8.R.”: At last the cargo pillagers on Melbourne
wharves are getting their deserts. The outcry raised
by importers has been heard, and the police have
effected a capture. One dastard has been convicted
of the larceny of an orange from a broken case, and
this pronounced success will doubtless spur the police
on to even greater efforts. Meantime, how the old
heads at the game must laugh at the bat-eyed police
who do not see the lorry-load of stuff being removed
from under their noses, because they are busy tak-
ing the name and address of a bystander who has
had the audacity to put an orange to his mouth
when he thought no lynx was looking!
“Sardonyx”: The dimensions of the new White
Star liner, now taking shape at Belfast, are still a
secret of the “yard,” but rumor puts the length at
1000 ft. There is no dry-dock yet that could take
such a ship in, though Liverpool is just finishing
one that could do it and have 50ft. to spare. It is
the dry-dock question, after all, that will put a
limit to the magnification of steamships, for the
mammoth dry-dock doesn’t pay unless it has pretty
frequent visits from mammoth vessels. It is doubt-
ful also if these colossal ships themselves are “good
business.” At all events, the Norddeutscher Lloyd
has drawn the line for the time being at 25,000 tons
—about half the capacity of the Hamburg-American
liner Imperator.
“Prime Canterbury mutton” got a useful advertise
ment during the recent visit of the warship Maorilanri
to the plains of the country it is named after Thp
sailors were taken inland to Ashburton and 'enter
tamed by the inhabitants of that no-whisky town In
a relay race for the crew the winners were presented
with a frozen lamb each, the iced mutton to be for
warded to nominated relatives in Britain so that thev
might get a chance to know what real cheap food is
* * *
“Punter” : I shake hands with “Simon” (B 29/5/’i3' )
when he says that something should be done to give
the community protection in the matter of practising
accountants; but I sidestep when he suggests the
registration of these figure-jugglers by Act of Parlia
ment as the remedy. If he wants an example of what
this would result in, let him see how Maoriland has
fared since the 1908-9 Acts were brought in. At
June 30 last, there were 2075 persons in that loan-
cursed country who were entitled to sign “R.A ”
(Registered Accountants) after their names, and I am
willing to bet “Simon” drinks for the Religious Edi-
tor that not a tenth of this crowd ever had a chance
to qualify for the varying duties of a public account-
ant. The growth of accountants’ associations in
N.S.W. during the past few years has been absurd
and it is time someone prepared a code so that the
mere bloque might tell what the ornamentations all
mean. There’s only one way to get the business put
on a proper footing: let the public accountant have
a University degree, combined with articles. With
the Chair of Commerce now firmly established, the
way seems clear. I count “Simon” out on his state-
ment that the F.C.P.A. body (Sydney) won’t allow
anyone but a practising accountant" to sit for its
examinations. What this aristocratic body insists on
is that the examinee shall be employed in a practising
accountant’s office: and the provision is a wise one
as it results in only trained men being admitted, as
against pure theorists who sit for some of the other
bodies’ tests.
* • * •
S.A. railways have had to pay £4OO damages to a
girl who got her elbow crushed by an open door of
one train as she sat with her arm on the window of
another. They tried hard to prove “contributory
negligence” inasmuch as she had let her elbow pro-
trude ; but the sticking-out was shown to have been
not more than about two inches (it was a barred
window), and the Court thought this not unreason-
ably careless. Granted the recklessness of letting a
train travel at all with a door swinging, it was bad
luck all round. Measurements (in which The Bul-
letin has very little faith in this connection) pur-
ported to show that there is only one spot on the
line between City and Port where such a door could
foul another train ; and the two trains happened to
meet precisely there.
* * * *
“W..T.H.”: The Maoriland Farmers’ Union Is
clamoring for Socialistic leg’slation against the
Australians who are helping to eat up the local
supply of white pine. Millions of feet of the tim-
ber are required per annum for the Australian
cow-man’s butter and cheese crates, and, instead of
exporting it, Maoriland will probably have to do
some importing of the article in a few years. Aus-
tralian firms have been buying up whole forests of
white pine to meet the cow demand at their end,
and the M.L. Anti-Sosh person reckons that, if the
State doesn’t lay on a heavy export duty, Pirate
Enterprise from foreign parts will ruin the country.
What’s in a name? The land-jobber says there’s
a good bit. Take Rookwood, for instance. Since
Sydney’s big graveyard has been established there,
along with a nice-and-handy asylum for tuberculous
and other derelicts, the man with the otherwise
desirable suburban villa site to sell declares that
business is as dead as most of the inhabitants;
wherefore he cries aloud for a new name —or an old
one. Of these old ones there are two. Originally
the place was known as Liberty Plains; later on,
as Haslam’s Creek. Sam Haslam was a verv old
colonist; one hundred years ago he had a license
to sell beer on a creek that ambled across Parra-
matta-road, and a public-house occupies the site to-
day. On a local vote “Haslam” would probably win
in a canter, if anybody could be expected to canter
in a tombstonv old place like that.
TOBACCO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you're feeling low and worthless,
And the game’s not worth a match;
When you’re just about as mirthless
As a Wowser’s Sunday “batch” ;
When you say of Life: “Well, blight it;
It’s a rotten kind of show” —
Why, then, get your pipe and light it
And you’ll find surcease from woe.
When Delilah that you trusted
Has betrayed you to your shame,
And you’re bitter and disgusted
At the breath of woman’s name ;
When you feel your life must shatter
’Neath the unexpected blow,
Take my tip—it doesn’t matter,
Light your pipe and let her go.
There’s a time when dingbats muster
On the propsticks of the mind,
Underneath the spreading cluster
Where the unpa'd bills are lined ;
But before they’re settled fairly,
Ere they cloud the hour with doubt,
Take a pipe and fill it squarely,
And then smoke the blighters out.
All the world is full of blither
Of philosophies and creeds ;
Full of rushing here and thither
Under stress of varied greeds ;
Wasting time and nowhere going,
Whether rich or stony broke —
Light the weed and keep it glowing;
All is vanity and smoke.
So they balance up the ledgers,
When we’ve passed beneath the sod,
And the sports, and crooks and hedgers
Have been carpeted by God ;
While we’re waiting for what’s pending,
Whether wings or Sheol’s coke,
’Twill be kindly and befriending
If They let us have a smoke.
x.s.w.
THE SNAKE.


General Eledtric Co. U.S.A.
ELECTRIC MINE HOISTS
Double Drum Hoist of 9000/b. capacity, with General Electric Co. U.S.A.
112-H.P. Alternating Current Motor.
The General EleCtric Co. U.S.A. have many
motors operating on haulage sets and hoists
throughout Australia, and is prepared to furnish
the Complete EleCtrical Equipment for all classes
of Hoist work.
This Equipment includes Alternating Current
and Direct Current Motors, Drum type, or
Automatic Magnetic Contractor Control Ap-
paratus, Solenoid Brakes, Eimit Switches,
Solenoid Operated Emergency Valves, etc.
If
Why not permit us to go
into your Haulage Problems ?
WRITE FOR BULLETIN 4939.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Co.
217 Clarence Street, Sydney. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, Melbourne.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold ' by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
unclaimed money & proper iv.
OOTOAL’S REGISTER to N FXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., Ac., price
3/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal A Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
OOUCAL&CO.,ISI STRAND,LONDON, ENCLAND.
(Katn hl.ifthe.fi. over SO Vpars.)
jocks
and Stockings.
“ The World’s B*st. ”
Ask for and insist upon having Hosiery
are
A magnificent combined product of Australasia
and England.
Made from the purest All-Australasian Wool—
S -^ > ;y° ven and finished to perfection in the
Factories. Leicester. England.
Always buy when you want pure wool
nose.
Always buy £%££2s when you want hose will never
shrink-when you want ease in wearing—because h„ . ...
process „ rendered as soft as silk. " Dy »special
ni'ta '"® S r? n< i : ' ocks ; (or ,adies . men and children. In all prices
Aa3o and mfme b °ok, e' <p
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
«l§
9&
<S
“Things done by halves are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” thoroi ghly.
There are no half measures abou!
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.,
Melbourne.
"THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
CONSUMMATE
EVAPORATIVE CONDENSERS
For Efficiently & Economically Condensing Exhaust Steam.
All condensed steam is recovered for
boiler feed at a high temperature*
Higher Efficiency than Water Cool-
ing Towers and Lower Working
Costs*
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: One-fourteenth that re-
quired by Surface Condenser and
Cooling Towers,
Fuel and Water Charges reduced
30 to 50 per cent*
g
UJ
** i■ --»
ii!!
Ji l,11
Hi !i
in
IH
Min
■
—HWffIR
fc» !B)S£i
a u»
■
sSB !
i...
>s v &
,
.
MI iMMta
liigf
This Plant supersedes four sets of
Surface Condensers with Cooling
Towers,
Coal Saving; Actually
Effected: 2600 tons the
First Year.
Capacity: 40,0001t5. steam per
hour.
Power consumed for circulating
purposes: 7 8,H,-P,
For all Situations where Water is Scarce.
Australian Representatives:-
c./
QJ.I 5U3003 # S3VH
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Most Moderate Priced, Reliable, Real Rifle Made!
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT NO. 14;
m
For -22 Short R.F., -22 Long R.F., and *22 Long Rifle R.F. cartridges. Weight,
2|lb.
Rifled by the famous Stevens method.
STEVENS RIFLES—PISTOLS—TELESCOPES,
Hold more Records for Accuracy than all other makes Combined.
Order through your Dealer. Write for latest Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms and Tool Co
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelai *a, South Australia. [4
'This Half-Magazine R
Winchester Repeater,
This is one of the latest Models of Win-
chester Half-Magazine Centre Fire Repeaters—
and is just the finest all-round Rifle for every Bushman.
It is a Rifle you can rely on —good for small game ; also Kangaroos,
Wallabies, or for killing Cattle and Hogs on the Farm.
Its magazine carries seven .25/20. .32, .38 or .44 Calibre Cart-
ridges—can be loaded in a moment —the ejection of one cartridge
bringing the other into position.
Its barrel is made of the finest tested Steel, Octagon shape (eight
sided), this being an advantage over the round Barrel, the glare
being lessened, allowing the Eye to glance along a flat plane
instead of a round surface. Is 20 or 24 inches long, just as you
choose, fitted with Sporting Fore and Rear Sight, and a plain
Trigger.
The Stock is of well-seasoned Walnut, fitted with Steel protector.
The net weight of the rifle is from 6ilb. to 71b.
It can also be had with a round barrel for 62/6. Postage
and Packing on either Rifle, 3/- extra.
Ask us to send you our Gun Catalogue, illustrating and
giving prices of others.
T. C. BEIRNE&CO.
THE VALLEY,
BRISBANE.
(i'M
V
*303 Lee-Enfield
SPECIAL MATCH RIFLES AND BARRELS
have again proved their enormous superiority ove." all other
makes, by practically sweeping the board of all important
prizes and Ma ches at Bisley, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart, etc.
There is big money to be won during 1913, and
you want to get ready in time. Write for latest
B.S.A. Catalog of Rifles, Sights, etc.
Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
Representating B.S.A. Co., Ltd.
Australian Buildings,
Melbourne.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3 6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anato my,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mae-
fadden; simple Some
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Maefadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4 ; Maefad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4 ; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Maefadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 ;
Superb Womanhood,
5/4 ; Maefadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete, 2/2. ANt) ANY
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS
Marvellously Simple! Simply Marvellous!
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the finders (see
illustration) Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6 j
posted, 2/-
Two - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free an y-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include -postage to any address.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. x
-
m
mmm**
0A
Simply
Turn a Screw
and Pull —
that’s all that’s neces-
sary to detach the bar-
rel of a Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifle.
It’s just as easy to clean
—it’s all done from the
breech and you can look
through the barrel and see
that it’s clean.
You’ll like this thor-
oughly tested, accurate,
reliable rifle made by expert
gunsmiths—a century’s ex-
perience is builded into it.
It is hammerless, has solid breech—no possibility of
accidental discharge or blow backs.
Shoot Remington-UMC Lesmok 2 2’s—they made the world’s
highest score and most perfect group. Remington-UMC
Repeating Rifles and Shot Guns. Ammunition for
all makes of fire arms. For sale everywhere.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
(M. Hartley Company, Export Agent) 299-301 Broadway, New York, U. S.A.
A GREAT nUSICAL INNOVATION.
IV D
tj§ PARTS Vxv ALBERT'S SYSTEM
HAN ® filed
"«ds
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom-
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at
once raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination. The sweetness and body
of resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be equalled by the tuneful
combination of the Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the G/G one for preference.
Wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.)
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens,
Seven
Prize Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the case
of a soft lead penal.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.oiting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works x Birming-nam, Engrland,
A
r
Clements Tonic.
“To CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“From May to the end of October, 1912, I suffered
agonies with acute MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
My ankles, knees and shoulder joints became
swollen and painful, and the excruciating pains in
my hack were almost unbearable. I was m a
helpless condition, could scarcely stand; to ma* e
matters worse, I completely lost my appetite, and to sleep at night w r as out of the
question.
“I had the best medical advice* and medicines, Turkish and hot salt-water
baths out of number, also was massaged three times a week, but all to no purpose.
“I began to despair of ever being well again, and. as a last resource, concluded
to try CLEMENTS TONIC, 1 had read so much of it.
“I did so, and I FELT A WONDERFUL IMPROVEMENT. By the time
I had finished my second large bottle the swelling of the joints and pains in
back left me, my appetite had returned, and I slept well. \\ hen I was on
fourth bottle I felt as vigorous and strong as I ever did in my life.
“I can now go about and enjoy myself with renewed energy, that makes life
worth living. I have only Clements Tonic to thank for coming to my ti >
assistance, when all other remedies failed to restore me to perfect health.
“(Signed) FRED. E. DIAMOND, J.P.
“No. 8 Rosedale Street, Petersham, Sydney, N.S.W.”
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
BEST OF MEDICINES.
GET IT AND GET WELL.- All Chemists and Stores sell it.
This medicine is invaluable for restoring strength after illness, l evel, Wtuhutsi,
Insomnia , Indigestion , or Const iptiti on. It gives strength and health. _ ;i


A Strong
Tonic
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a tonic,
a strong tonic. It is not a
stimulant. There is not a
drop of alcohol in it. But it is
a regular tonic, gives tone and
strength to the whole system.
Improves the appetite, aids
digestion, steadies the nerves.
Be sure to keep the bowels reg-
ular. Daily movements are neces-
sary to good health. Constipation
interferes ~im the action of any
tonic. Regulate your bowels with
Ayer's Pills. Dose, one pill, only
one. Ask your doctor.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER as CO.,
LoweU, aiaes.. U. S. A.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : BrLcoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co.. Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/n Sydney Agents.
T'HE Australian .Magazine—THE LONE
1 HAND. Tlie National Monthly. Price. 6<l.
The finishing touch.
I
«3=#U
THE
»I
KALODERMA
tt
preparations are the most perfect of Toilet
Requisites.
"KALODERMA"
Soap. Prepared with Glycerine and Honey.
Luxurious and refreshing. The best Soap for
Softening and Beautifying the complexion.
"KALODERMA"
Face Powder. Unequalled for the Toilet.
Refined and soothing. Can be had in Pink,
White or Cream.
"KALODERMA"
Jelly, makes and keeps the complexion as pure
as the Lily. A most lovely Skin Emollient.
Absolutely free from Grease.
9t
If
KALODERMA
Is obtainable at all the Leading Establishments.
F. WOLFF & SOHN
KARLSRUHE Germany and LONDON*
/
Good for -
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds’ Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BON N INGTON 'S’
1/6 &t 2/6.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
ot either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
... ... . ln 2 antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N. S.W.
I
Falliere Flesh-Food Co
1103 Ash St., Sydney.
A WELL-ROUNDED BOSOM
is the Pride and Jcy of all Women.
No woman need remain flat and undeveloped, thin, and
miserable. Your weight can be increased, and bust developed
to normal. It is done for hundreds of others, and can be as
readily done for you. If your bust lacks development and
farmness, and your arms, neck and shoulders are thin and
scrawny, even though your face is pretty, you Invariably take
second place to your more fully-developed, full-bosomed asso-
ciates in your own social set. It will always be so unless you
correct the imperfections in your figure. Send a 2d. Stamp
for a Free Sample of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food, and our free
book which tells how. Flesh-Food is harmless to use, and the
treatm ut rapidly and permanently develops a poor figure to
normal Thousands endorse it. Full particulars free. (1410)
TORTURING VARICOSE VEINS.
Many old, stubborn cases, even where ulcers of 20 years’ standing were present,
have been cured in a few weeks, the worst cases responding as readily as those only
recently developed. If you are a sufferer you should obtain particulars of this
wonderful remedy.
THE |/ECSEY METHOD of treatment quickly stops the
1- pain and subdues the existing
inflammation. Its continued application eradicates the accumulation that distends
the veins, and restores the valves and walls to their original healthy state. It is
essentially a home treatment, and cures without laying ud or detention from your
ordinary duties, and has been successful in hundreds of cases formerly given up as
hopeless. It is enthusiastically endorsed by hundreds who once suffered.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of treatment comes as a
great boon. Previous to its discovery no painless, permanent palliative was
known. It cures the veins absolutelv, so that they do not return.
Mr, G. Vecsey.
FREE BOOK.
Send a 2d. stamp or call for free book of full particulars. Consultation and
advice free. We can treat you successfully by post wherever you live.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
(1420)
PILLS
BRIGHTEN EXISTENCE,
It is not difficult to know when a mild aperient
is required. One feels dull and depressed; there is
acid in the stomach, oppression at the chest, nqmb
pain in the back, possibly a sharp attack of indigestion
or biliousness and headache.
Cockle’s Pills quickly dispel all such distressing symptoms of disorder,
cleansing the system thoroughly, restoring tone and stability to the whole
digestive apparatus, puriiying the blood, and generally renewing normal
physical conditions as well as mental brightness. In a word, Cockle’s Pills
brighten existence by keeping the body fit and well. The purer skin
.and clearer complexion are the sure signs of it.
Of all Chemists, l/lj and 2/9 per box.
TOBACCO KILLS!
to
P
I <2*
;
Face to Face with Death l
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cur.es permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for 30
years, but since takinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific l have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. 0,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. [3.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country sboulJ miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of weering useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with tailing steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
solt rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. On you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
CESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins.st., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Stondard Remedy which hag outlived the Centurie*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
IB BN bine* 1896.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik
s
"0“ ’I ■ aa vuia VIKUI
; jro„r chemist foritihiitory—the book ig free—or write
GREEN, 210. Lambeth Koaa, Loudon, Eng,
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Mood.
Tlie min to-day for me has rained,
'las strung its tears upon the trees
And put, in place of melodies.
A little sobbing in the breeze.
Tilt rai u to ‘ day for me has rained,
Although at ev’ning, so they said,
I j k ls fdor.v earthward shed
And died in clouds of windy red.
Because the rain for me has rained
to-day, I saw no smiling thing,
i heard no wind, exulting, sing,
aor saw the sunset crimsoning.
Oh, how the rain for me has rained!
MAORILAND.
MONA MACKAY.
Orpheus in Rhodope.
* amid high meadows, morning fair,
With large, clear blossoms round mv care-
less feet.
And bending woods, that in a crystal air
1 trooped greenly to a valley ciothed with
wheat.
I heard the young birds sing, the younr
lambs bleat,
And somewhere world’s delight was calling
loud,
I he while the wind was fingering my hair
ttut of the mist-veil of a dreaming cloud.
ay y as my thought that silver morn.
t was flowing in mv heart,
t heard the reapers’ voices in the corn,
strong-limbed I brushed the dews of dawn
apart.
The dimpled sunbeams seemed to leap and
start
Around me, and with laughter on the wav.
Mashing their cymbals, blowing fife and
horn,
Went all the bright-eyed children of the
day.
i lot-foot I passed. The valley opened wide
*ts shining arms, and all its harvest dross,
\ bite as the shimmering garment of a bride.
Seemed on my heart its loveliness to press,
ihe summer morning was a long caress ;
A nd all the happy kisses of the sun
With amber blushes lawn and woodland
dyed
For gladness of another day begun.
And 10, before me, under bending shade,
All rosy-white amid her shining hair,
1 saw the clear limbs of the wonder-maid,
A laughing woman delicately fair
She fled, her loose robe trailing down the
air.
The red-lipped quarry youth’s strong arm
should take.
And all the shouting spirits of the glade
Joined in the merry chase for sweet love’s
sake.
Then, pierced as by an arrow long and keen
Of pointed sunshine darting from the
height.
She stayed amid that maze of arching green
With blushing face and panting bosom
white.
Vanquished, she yielded lips of red delight
To hunter lips more hot to claim their
prize,
Arid all her happy nature seemed to lean
Out of the darkness of her splendid eyes.
The tall, white gods stept down amid the
trees.
Shrill music laughed aloud in pipe and
shell.
Vrd ravished with sharp fragrance the
young breeze,
Laid , airy hands on some mad wedding-
bell
High in the branches o’er us. Silence fell
After that tumult of ecstatic noise. . ..
A'e stood apart, shy-eyed, with trembling
knees.
Afraid to lift the burden of our joys.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Hungry Guest.
It is a wild and fearsome sight
To see the hungry guest by night,
U hen supper doors are opened wide,
Shoving the flappers frail aside
And charging at the beefy dame
Who tries to spoil his little game
P*y standing in his path. Alack !
lie smites her on her pillow back,
Tramples her dearest corns, and scoots
Where weakling maids are wailing “Brutes !”
And pawing feebly in the crush !
Nothing can stop his headlong rush!
Without a second's pause he shoves
And worries through the crumpled doves,
Heedless of gasps and squeaks of pain,
The goal of appetite to gain.
It is no use at all to glare
Or try to shame him with a stare
As those who fall before him find.
The growls and shrieks of those behind,
Still smarting from the Terror’s cracks,
Should be the signal that an axe
Is wanted, and a strong right arm
To keep the peaceful guests from harm.
Oh ! what a yell of savage glee
Would rend the air if one night he
Were dealt a swift and deadly blow
lust where his shiny collars go,
While trampling women underfoot
And giving ag£d men the boot!
Stout matrons thickly powdered o’er
Would calmly watch the villain’s gore
Dyeing the floor a dreadful red;
Mo maid would hold his injured head;
And nice young men on eager feet
Would hurry round with things to eat,
And munch and sip where he could see
And thus increase his agony.
Mo sign of mercy would he trace
In any neighbor’s watchful face:
1 ike crows around a sheep they’d stand,
While flushed and scornful women fanned,
Saying it served him right, and oh!
ill Horrors should be treated so
Who fought in such a manner rude
For one dashed shilling’s worth of food !
n.s.w.
E. O'F.


PIANO PERFECTION
SEND FO.T CATALOGUE
... or ...
CALL IN AND INSPECT,
GLORIOUS instruments are
stocked by us in many
famous makes —none but
the most famous and the finest
obtainable.
A Beautiful Piano is the
“SCHIEDMAYER and
SOEHNE ” (Suttgart), Model
C. In rich rosewood case.
Solidly constructed and mag-
nificently toned.
Made by the oldest firm in
STUTTGART.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.
CENTRAL SQUARE, SYDNEY.
Dinnefords]
Magnesia
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“ Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations. Eilious Affections.
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop's ” best drawings. Tull Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
WUNDERLICH
CEILINGS.
'M-
lit '
This Registered
TRADE MARK
is on all our Steel Sheets ;
it is your guide and our
guarantee of genuine
WUNDERLICH
MANUFACTURES.
WUNDERLICH METAL installation for Walls and Ceilings in
a Home COSTS NO MORE, indeed less, than the ordinary
materials, which cannot in any essential compare with it in
quality, durability or economy.
A most attractive feature of the Wunderlich Manufactures is the
wide variety of treatment possible through its use.
The Wunderlich Catalogue contains designs appropriate to every
room in the house —designs suitable for all styles of Architecture,
be it Mansion, Cottage, Shop or Public Hall.
Post tree. Illustrated Catalogue of Ceilings.
To Mr •
Coupon,
B. 6/’l3.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
MANUFACTURERS,
SYDNEY.
56 Pitt Street.
BRISBANE.
363-5 Queen Street.
MELBOURNE.
243 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE.
113-9 Currie Street.
PERTH,
lord Street.
HOBART.
Club Chambers, Collins Street.
LAUNCESTON.
71 St. John Street.
AGENTS FOR N.Z.:
BRISCOE & CO., LIMITED,
WELLINGTON, DUNEDIN, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, INVERCARGILL.
\\
\\\
\\
&
X
\\
\w
x i ;
\V
tynseH OILSKINS.
Rest for RIDING, DRIVING and MOTORING.
Warranted waterproof and not to stick.
Obtainable from all progressive storekeepers
Made in two weights:—
The “Dugong-Watershed,” light weight 32/6
The “Rainbow-Watershed,” stout make, for
rough wear 25/-
If unable to obtain these oilskins from your
storekeeper, send order direct to us.
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all Macintoshes and Oilskins
When ordering by ma 1 just send height and easy chest
measurement over clothes. We will select a coat guaran
teed to give every satisfaction, lor macintoshes abb -tate
color preferred. Samples of materials post free on ret;.., -t
STORM GOLOSHES.
Men’s 4/3 pair
Women’s .. 3/3 ~
Boys’ .... 3/9 „
Postage. 9d. extra.
RUBBER BOOTS.
The “Prospect,” stout
make —
Men’s .. 16/-pair
Postage, 1/3.
Ladies’ Rubber Boots,
10/6 pair
Postage, 1/-
LEGGINGS.
Waterproof Tweed and
Canvas, 4/6 pair.
With foot piece, 5/6
pair.
Leather Putties, Tan or
Black Calf. 7/6 pair
Postage paid.
RUBBER CO LT9
270 George Street, Sydney; and at Melbourne.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Honthly, 6d.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40 '■
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone cf these instruments is attained by the
use of Beil Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15 postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
HALLEY MOTOR LORRIES.
Any Class of Body Fitted to
the Halley Motor Lorry.
CHEAPER—QUICKER—MORE RELIABLE.
Halley Lorries cost less to run, per mile, than horse teams. This claim is based
upon the most careful calculations. These show a good margin in favor of the ilaliey.
In the most important matter of speed the Halley shows a superiority of quie
four times the speed of horse teams. This brings the markets nearer, and o t
means the gaining of the best prices. The Halley, moreover, does not tire,
performs its work at the end of a long trip with an undiminished efficiency impossiD
to flesh and blood traction.
The Halley in backing up to a siding uses the same full power as iu advancing-
Only the “polers” of a horse team back —with ruinous results and delays, ihe na )
is not impeded by rough or hilly roads. TC ,
The Halley is SIMPLE. ACCESSIBLE and FREE FROM BREAKDOWN-
It holds Special Award and Gold and Silver Medals for these very features.
TO CARRY FROM 15cwt. TO 6 TONS.
Any Type of Body Fitted.
Let us send you, post free, Full Information of this fine Lorry. Any trial will be
readily arranged on request.
DALGETY CO. LTD.
Motor Garage : 136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: Bourke Street. BRISBANE: George Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 34.—N0. 1741.
THURSDAY, JUNE 26. 1913.
PlllOH *)[>.
THE BURDEN AND THE BEARER THEREOF.
It is a necessity imposed by the growth of the metropolis, and the metropolis, it must be remembered, belongs to the whole State, serves the whole State, and the
whole State may reasonably be proud of its expansion and prosperity. The possession of Sydney is the envy of the other States. Sydney tells the world how great New South.
Wales is. —Sydney Telegraph on Country Interests v. Sydney.
THE COUNTRY YOUTH: “Yairs, I’m gettin’ tired uv this job; I certainly ain’t thrivin’ on it, an’”-
CITY RELATIVE: “Nonsense, boy, nonsense! Where’s yer family pride? Why, that scraggy Melbun ’ussy fairly squirms with henvy w'en she
sees me In this state of hease an’ haffluence!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
i.EOIJ, of Musgrarve and Mci.eod Streets.
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street. Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly.. .. .. .. 070
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every tceel: ior a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements. etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thittg to address editcn'al letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, 'l’H r Bulletin/' is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. Tht perron may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
f used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to r-oroduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and. where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Corr. spondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political. Social or other Articles. Terse. Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects. and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs.
Letters or Sewspapcr Clippings. All communications
trill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any pict tire containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction —t.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don. after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch. Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central Sews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver.
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., ]{l Hastings Street,
Vancouver. 8.C.; Jepson Bros.. Sanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
llarlin, Granville Street, Vancouver. B.C.
U.S.A. —Childs Sews Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets. San Diego. Cal. ; Golden Gate Sews Co., 7 89
Market Street. San Francisco: Quaker Sews Co..
Philadelphia. U.S.A.: Queen City Sews Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets. Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn. Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, flong
Kong.
Oeti.on.—lT. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice,
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria.- TTVsf Australia. Queensland. Tas-
mania and Sew Zealand; and oh account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6§ in.
x ((«».. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. I.arger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies Ths Bulletin (registered as a Seus-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, Sew Zea-
land, Fiji. British Sew Guinea, Sorfolk and Lord
Howe Islands. 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route. 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise. Boz. Id., and 84oj-
to lOoz.. lid.; lOoz. io lloz. id.; elsewhere, )oz. 'id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 26. 1913.
THE DYING TOWNS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
Last week The Bulletin had occasion to
mention that the State of New South W ales
had borrowed between £50,000.000 and
£60.000,000 during the last 20 years for the
development of the country, and for the
expansion or blowing out of the great natu-
ral resources thereof. Also that it had
built, inside 20 years, over 1600 miles of
4ft. Siin. railway for the settlement and
progression of the State. Also that it had
made, at great cost and at much lOU. many
roads, bridges, dams, school-houses, and
other signs and evidences of civilisation.
And incidentally, that the Government
which did the maddest slab of borrowing
was pledged to a reduction of loan expendi-
ture. and had taken its solemn oath and
covenant to spend loan money only on public
works which would pay full interest on
their cost and a sinking fund to boot, and
had likewise undertaken to abandon the
centralising policy by which all railways
are made to point., to Sydney, and all com-
merce and manufactures and finance are
dragged to Sydney, and the great bulk of
the new population is at racted to Sydney,
.and every good port which isn’t Sydney is
kept shut up and deserted. Then, by way
of a side issue, it was pointed out that,
under tne new policy, the loan curse and
the centralisation curse were, if such a
thing could be possible, a little worse than
before. In evidence whereof it was ex-
pounded that any one could mark oil on tne
map 100 counties out of the 141 which make
up the State of New South Wales, and say
truthfully mat that vast area contained, de-
spite all the loan expenditure and all the
railways, fewer people in the year 1911 than
it did in 1901. In other words, these 100
counties represented the vast area which
was dying of the centralisation disease,
chiefly because it was cut off from access to
its nearest deep-sea ports, such as Twofold
Bay. Jervis Bay, Port Stephens. Brisbane.
Melbourne, Adelaide and Port Pirie —in the
interests of the Congested Sydney gospel.
The matter may be carried further, and
an inquisition made into the town popula-
tion of New South Wales. Under the
Sydney Congestion policy many country
towns are naturally dying out. It is im-
possible for the population of the back
counties to perish without their little busi-
ness centres going the same dismal road.
The last census report enumerates 151 muni-
cipalities outside Sydney and its immediate
environs, the records of which could be
traced back for 20 years. And this was
their remarkable history up to 1901: —
The 33 Municipalities which Lost Population'
BETWEEN 1891 AND 1901.
(1) Bega, (2) Bombala, (3) Bourke, (4) Bowral,
(5) Broughton Vale, (6) Campbelltown, (7) Dubbo,
(8) Dundas, (9) Gerringong, (10) Goulburn, (11)
Greta, (12) Hill End, (13>- Jamberoo, (14) Kiama,
(15) Liverpool, (16) West Maitland, (17) Mitta-
gong, (18) Moruya, (19) Mulgoa, (20) Murrurundi,
(21) Lambton, (22) Plattsburg, (23) Peak Hill,
(24) Penrith, (25) Picton, (26) Queanbeyan, (27)
Raymond Terrace, (28) Richmond, (29) South Shoal-
haven, (30) Silverton, (31) Uralla, (32) Wentworth,
(33) Wilcannia.
In New South Wales a comparatively small
proportion of towns are incorporated, and
enjoy the glory of a mayor and a squad of
aldermen. In fact, as the traveller goes
west into the dying or dead regions, hardly
any towns are incorporated. But for this
fact the list of the dead or partially dead
would probably be much longer. Still, when
33 municipalities out of 151 were slowly
pegging out between 1891 and 1901. despite
lavish borrowing, lavish railway building, a
considerable increase in the population of
the State, and a vast increase in the popula-
tion of the bloated metropolis, it looks as
though something were amiss.
* * * *
In the next decade the borrowing was
more lavish, the railway-building more
furious, the increase of general population
larger, and the growth of the bloated metro-
polis more remarkable—the metropolis to
which all the railways concentrate, and
where practically all the trade and finance
and manufacturing industries are concen-
trated. So far as the country towns were
concerned this was the result: —
The 57 Municipalities which Lost Population
BETWEEN 1901 AND 1911.
(1) Aberdeen, (2) Balranald, (3) Bathurst, (4)
Berry, (5) Blayney, (6) Bombala, (7) Bourke, (8)
Bowral, (9) Braidwood, (10) Broughton Vale, (11)
Campbelltown, (12) Carcoar, (13) Castlereagh, (14)
Cudal, (15) Cudgegong, (16) Deniliquin, (17)
Gerringong, (IS) Goulburn, (19) Gosford, (20)
Greta, (21) Gundagai. (22) Hay, (23) Hill End,
(24) Hillgrove, (25) Hillston, (26) Jamberoo, (27)
Jerilderie, (28) Kiama, (29) East Maitland, (30)
Mittagong, (31) Moarna, (32) Morpeth, (33) Moruya,
(34) Mulgoa, (35) Newcastle, (36) Lambton, (37)
Merewether, (38) Plattsburg, (39) Stockton, (40)
Wallsend, (41) Nowra, (42) Nyngan, (43) Parkes,
(44) Parramatta, (45) Picton, (46) Port Macquarie,
(47) St. Mary's. (48) Shellharbor. (49) South Shoal-
haven, (50) Silverton, (51) Ulladulla, (52) Wari-
alda, (53) Warren, (54) Wentworth (55), Wil-
cannia, (56) Wyalong, (57) Yass.
So despite all the borrowings and railway-
buildings. allegedly for the purpose of
"developing the great natural resources of
the country.” the number of decaying muni-
cipalities increased from 33 in 1901 to 57 in
1911. And the number of depopulated
counties increased in an equally remarkable
fashion.
New South Wales is not very well sup-
plied with harbors and with good city sites,
yet it is better off than many places. The
north-east has access to Brisbane, which
is only moderately good a com-
mercial sense. It owns Coff's Harbor,
which is fair, and Port Stephens,
which is excellent. The south-east has
Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay. The
south is reasonably adjacent to Melbourne.
The south-west is convenient to Portland.
Adelaide and Port Pirie. And that same
south-west ought to be the garden of the
State, for not only is it convenient to three
good ports, but it is the region where Aus-
tralia's two biggest rivers, the Darling and
the Murray, meet, and it has immense pos-
sibilities in the way of irrigation and river
trade. The fact that these outlying
localities are doing a continuous and
increasing perish can only be set down
to the Congestion policy. Where a
bit of New South Wales is allowed the
best possible means of communication with
the nearest good port it shows a capacity
for expansion which no other Australian
State can equal. And where the vested
interests of Svdney shut the country off from
the outlet which Providence provided, it is
on the down grade all the time.
THE LONG PROCESS OF INQUIRY.
Should the present X.S.W. Government
lose the number of its mess on the adjacent
election day. it will at Iqast have the satis-
faction of knowing that it has done its duty
in three particulars. It has inquired vig-
orously into the desirability of building a
bridge across Sydney Harbor. It has in-
quired furiously into the necessity for a
tube railway, or somethiflg of the sort, to
relieve the pressure on Sydney's narrow
streets. And it has inquired tremendously
into the question of establishing a munici-
pality of Greater Sydney. If it survives
the election it may also inquire into the
advisability of supplying Sydney with a
central railway station, and carrying the
main line right through the city, and then
its work will be fairly complete, unless it
appoints a body of financial experts to con-
sider the advisability of borrowing less
money, or something of the sort. A Com-
mission of Inquiry is the great standby of
the bewildered politician. It enables the
man-who-is-tired to get a rest. It gives the
man-who-doesn’t-know a chance to make
someone else know for him. The man-who-
can t-make-up-nis-mind, but lingers like an
ass between two haystacks, employs a Com-
mission to supply mm with a mind, and to
decide which is the better haystack for an
ass to dine upon. The public-man-who-
hasn’t-a-ghost-of-an-idea-where-the-money - is -
to-come-from finds the Commission a re-
freshing delay and a pleasant though tem-
porary disguise for his impecuniosity. And
the Premier-who-doesn't-want-to-do-any thing
discovers, after he has appointed three dif-
ferent Commissions, and secured three dif-
ferent verdicts, that the matter is very
complicated, and no one can be reasonably
expected to do anything at all without years
of further consideration.
The Greater Sydney investigation is doing
as well as can be expected. It has dis-
covered that there are an amazing number
of municipalities in and around the N.S.W.
metropolis, and an incredible diversity of
mayors, aldermen, town clerks, town halls,
rate collectors, inspectors of this and that,
supervisors of thingumbob, overseers of
whatyoumaycallit, garbage carts, boss road-
menders, assistant road-neglecters, deputy
road-destroyers, and other matters, the exist-
ence of which has been known almost since
the oldest inhabitant’s ancestor was a
germ. It has clearly demonstrated that
water and sewerage matters are under the
control of a Board because 40-odd sets of
officials can't be expected to come to an
agreement over an intricate matter of the
sort. The fact has been borne in upon it
that the city tramways are run by the Rail-
way Department because of the same cir-
cumstance, and that gas is supplied by
Private Enterprise on account of the same
old cause; likewise hydraulic power and
ferry services and other things. The official
research has dug out the circumstance that
this system of multiple control works very
badly, and that many of the suburban high-
ways are a horror. It has been struck by
the news that Sydney requires a vast
amount of reconstruction, but that if 40-odd
mayors and 40-odd councils containing any-
thing short of 1000 aldermen have to be
fairly unanimous before a comprehensive
scheme can be devised it is a reversion to
the ways of the old Polish Diet, in which
several thousand nobles claimed a right to
sit. and everybody claimed the right to veto
anything or everything. The crowd of
stipendiary inquirers has been informed that
every Sydney and suburban municipality is
expanding on any lines it pleases; that every
mayor reckons he is as good as every other
mayor, if not a great deal better; that one
mayoral refreshment cupboard contains
much the same brand of refreshment as 39
or 43 other mayoral cupboards; and that
Alderman Bouncer of Ditchfield is almost
a duplicate of Alderman Blazes of Bog-
field. and that Alderman Briggs of Mudfield
is very like the other two. All of which
facts were known previously.
Further investigation on the part of the
indefatigable Commission has revealed other
things that were well known aforetime.
Thus there is no fixed rule about the width
of new streets, or about the size of tne
allotment on which a family may dwell
beneath its own vine and fig-tree, and with
its own gas-box on the front verandah, and
its own eldest girl sitting thereon after
dark, with her own best boy making love
to her. Back yards are various; one sub-
urban municipality recently allowed the
builder who is called Jeremiah to erect
some new cottages with back yards three
feet wide. Pavements are various, and so
are the chances of the passenger breaking
his neck on them under the various light of
the variegated street lamp. In some locali-
ties the dustman calls once a wees and is
furiously insolent; in others he calls once a
fortnight or every second day, and is reason-
ably polite—or otherwise. Mostly he is
otherwise. And even these facts don't com-
prise more than half the information or
confusion that was disinterred in the search
for a municipal constitution for Greater
Sydney. It has been discovered that some
witnesses —almost anybody may be a wit-
ness. and almost everybody is a very futile
and casual witness, for nobody seems to
have any real faith in the bona fides of the
inquiry—favor a large Greater Sydney, and
some a small one. and some want to strike
an average. It has been mentioned,
quite reasonably, that Greater Sydney is too
vast a proposition for one body of men to
tackle. Some people regard this as
a reason for leaving the present chaos alone,
while some simply regard it as a reason
why the Greater Sydney Council should
delegate most of its detail work to com-
mittees and sub-committees. There are
questions as to whether councillors should
be paid or not. and as to what powers they
should have, or should not have. And the
news has risen up and struck the Commis-
sion in the eye that the suburban mayors
and aldermen don't see why they should be
abolished. They reluctantly admit that they
are ideal mayors, and that, regarded as
aldermen, there is nothing like them even
in Paradise or the Vatican. The statement
is torn from them with difficulty that, if
they are obliterated, the loss to the com-
munity will be something awful. They say
that they “reflect public opinion.” and they
probably do, save in one respect. If public
ooinion asks them to stop reflecting and
retire into private life, then the agreement
between them and public opinion is liable
to be rudely dissolved, and the reflection
naturally stops, and the mirror in which the
reflection appeared is broken into many
pieces.
The result will, of eourse. be a report,
which will probably be very like the report
which followed on a similar inquiry a good
many years ago. But even though there
are 10 reports it is difficult to see that
anything will have been really accomplished.
If a business-like Government passed an Act
commanding the people of the various muni-
cipalities to elect delegates to a Greater
Sydney Convention, and to try their hands
at drafting a municipal constitution, some-
thing might really be done, or at least an
attempt might be really made to do some-
thing. But the endless Inquiry, which digs
up for the twentieth time the bones of what
everybody knows already, isn't progress. It
is only a device for putting off the evil day
when a puzzled Government will have to
sit up and take notice, and try to say some-
thing or do something.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Disabilities of the Australian
Manufacturer.
A CASUAL sort of disturbance latelv evenin
ated in some woollen mills at Botany W hi,h
is a dishevelled sort of place outside Svdnlr
iwo men were discharged by the hrm whirl,'
apparently had a vague idea that, so w
as it kept within tne four corners of ii,
industrial law, it might engage or retain ™
discharge whom it pleased. But 200 neonh,
promptly went on strike in defiance of rh!
law. which law doesn’t seem worth 2d as t
defence for the Australian employer’ and
it was understood that these 200 people h
tended to remain “out,” and to do whatever
they could to prevent other workers g o in*
“in. until the pair of unsatisfactory in
dividuals were reinstated. Presumably they
were unsatisfactory, for the manufacturer i
hungering after profits, like everybody eise
and he doesn’t, as a rule, discharge vain’
able men ; nor does he, as a rule, risk a con-
flict with his staff and a break-up of his
business by discharging even men who are
just half way between good and indifferent
But, unfortunately, the Australian manu-
facturer isn't allowed to discharge the most
incompetent person in his employ, provided
the most incompetent person is a unionist
There would be nothing to complain of in
that arrangement if it applied all round
but no one thinks of applying it all round’
The importer —the man who doesn’t empiov
Australian labor to make his goods, or get
his goods made at Australian wage rates
and who deals in the products of sweated
workers and nigger workers and leper
workers, and any old kind of workers— sacks
anybody he likes at any time he likes, and
nothing is said. Any man who doesn't earn
for him as much as he thinks an employee
ought to earn goes out on his ear. There' is
no strike. The Labor party doesn’t com
plain in any serious fashion. The Trades
Hall doesn’t raise Cain or even Sheol. The
Australian Government doesn’t get wild,
and dash things about, and alter the tariff!
and knock the Foreign-trade jobber into the
middle of next week. The reason assigned
for this torpidity or gloom or indifference is
that the importer's employees—or most of
them —are not trades unionists, and the
Trades Hall crowd has therefore no concern
with them. That explanation is logical in
a sense and wholly illogical in another sense.
It implies that it is a disadvantage and a
disability and a dead loss to employ union-
ists. The Australian manufacturer must
do so. The foreign importer needn’t do so.
The Australian manufacturer must pay
union wages, observe union hours and con-
ditions. and. under penalty of a strike, keep
on paying wages to unionists whom he re-
gards as not worth the money. He gets his
reward in the neck—where the fowl got the
axe. The foreign importer is required to
do none of these things. Jnst because the
importer is a scab, a blackleg, a non-union-
ist. a Tory, an enemy, an employer of
foreign cheap labor, and a person who would
see the Australian artisan dead before he
would give him a job. he is allowed advan-
tages and privileges that no one would
dream of granting to the Australian manu-
facturer. And by reason of this silly Labor
prejudice against the man who employs Aus-
tralian workmen, uses Australian materials,
pays Australian wages and observes Aus-
tralian conditions. Australian industry re-
quires an extra 10 per cent. Pro-
tection on general principles. It is none
too much to balance the absurd animosity
that Australian unionism seems to entertain
against its own country.
[Jamf.s Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
•
The Right to AVork.
A number of things happened in Australia
during the last week or two. to prevent the
community growing monldy amid the
monotony of life. The Commonwealth Oil
people, who have made nothing save stupen-
dous losses in their struggle with the Stan-
dard Oil Trust and its imported goods, tem-
porarily gave up or suspended the
ghost, which throws two whole townships
out of work. About 100 men have received
notice to quit one branch of the N.S.W.
railway construction service—presumably
for want of money to pay them. In Mel-
bourne there are nearly 2500 unemployed
on the register at the Labor Bureau. A
slump in immigration is foretold, and the
letters —genuine or bogus—of allegedly dis-
appointed immigrants grow more numerous.
Furthermore, a number of unemployed have
got together in Sydney, and formed them-
selves into a league to support the doctrine
of the right of every man who honestly de-
sires work to have work, and of coupe
fair remuneration. Taking the usual line
of least resistance this body decided to ap-
proach Premier Holman, which presumably
meant that Holman was expected, as
usual, to invent jobs paid for out of loan
money in order to keep the pot boiling.
Now the right to work is beyond all ques-
tion. But it is a matter which requires to
be approached in an intelligent spirit. Tho
right of every man to be healthy is also
beyond question, but unless he and bis
ancestors approach that subject also in an
intelligent spirit the event won't happen.
It is the same with the right of etery good
man to have a good wife: he generally gets
her if he takes reasonable precautions, and
if he doesn't —well, he doesn't. That is to
say. if he doesn't take reasonable precau
tions he gets any kind of female that
is going, and then he gets all that is coming
to him. On the same basis stands the rignt
of every man to get the chance of a lair
education. The result has arrived at
in a great degree, so far as Australia is con-
cerned. but it took 40 years of continuous
effort and foresight to eliminate the old. un-
lettered order of affairs, and put the countr
on a new footing. In short, things aren
made to be. simply by calling a meeting an
declaring in a loud voice that they o®?
to be. The unemployed question can t
solved purely by loan money and P 1
works. The loan money only lasts as *"
as the other fellow will lend : and the t
comes when the other fellow, instead oil
ing new money, wants his old money M •
and the public works have to pay or go in ~\
vent, and they can’t pay unless there .
local industries to. keep them going. -
country has to live by growing things _
making things, or both, and it a small ■
munity has gone ravins mad. and msi>j- »
importing nearly £80.000,000 worth of goods


per annum instead of making them, it must
expect to be short of work through this
constant exportation of its job, and short
of money through the constant exportation
of coin to pay the fellow to whom it insists
on giving the job. Not even 1000 resolu-
tions about the right to work will alter that
simple proposition. The right of every man
to have a billet is as indubitable as the right
of every general in war time to win a
battle. But the billet and the battle both
require to be pursued from a sane point of
view.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
A Matter of Cant.
Whilst the slow electoral magnate at Hume
was prolonging the question as to whether
Jokook’s score was 38 to 37, or 37 to 38,
Melb. Age started a correspondence on
Dancing and Morality. The most interesting
outcome of the discussion, thus far. has been a
letter from “A Hater of Cant,” who con-
tended that, although decorous dancing is
“moral” enough—almost as moral as mixed
“goff” or tennis, and a good deal more so than
mixed bathing—indecorous dancing is “a
potent agent and instrument of immorality,
vised by the Devil as his favorite engine of
corruption ever since the world began.”
Which seems a sufficiently truthful state-
ment, if we think of all other immorality as
being included in Mrs. Lrundy’s definition
of the word, instead of viewing the matter
with the eyes of George Du Maurier, who
said of his Trilby that “she had all the vir-
tues except the one that plays the name
part.” “Hater of Cant” pointed his argu-
ment with a disclosure :
Quite recently I went to a midnight supper (on a
Saturday evening) at one of Melbourne’s most fash-
ionable and costly public eating houses. The hall
was thronged with a gorgeous crowd of the jeunesse
doree of the metropolis. I counted among them at
least a score of well-known female “leaders of soci-
ety,” and as many more notorious demi-mondaines
graced neighboring tables. The scene was brilliant,
the atmosphere Bohemian ; an air of subdued excite-
ment animated the gathering. I rubbed my eyes.
“Am I really in Melbourne?” I asked myself.
Nothing unusual occurred, however, until some time
after midnight—barring a general drowning of the
licensing laws in bumpers of champagne. Then some of
the central tables were removed, and an exceedingly
pretty little girl appeared, who gave a distracting
exhibition of sinuous dancing quite worthy of the
Moulin Rouge. Her performance encouraged a prom-
inent vice-regal functionary to execute a pas seal,
which approved his feet and legs more educated than
his intellect. It was enough. Within a few minutes
the assemblage was a-foot and a trip. The dancing
remained orderly for a while, indeed it was never
positively indecent; but as much cannot be said
for the conduct of the dancers. During the evening
(I should rather say the morning—Sunday morning,
too) they stripped the tables of their adornments, and
engaged in a battle of flowers, and pelted each other
with other things, also —olives, for example, and
u S kread. Dames of the upper crust and ladies
of the nether sphere rubbed shoulders in an unreeog-
nising camaraderie that would have charmed the
hardest-hearted Anarchist. Now and then couples
would disappear unchaperoned—to return after long
intervals to the dance. Where did they go ? Would
it be malicious to observe that upstairs were several
rooms, garnished with furniture more pertinent to
the living apartments of an hotel than to a res-
taurant.
This paper has a very few words to say
on the other side of the case: It
may be _ bad; it may have murdered
three wives and embezzled the small
fortune of its mother-in-law ; it may be an
habitual slayer of the midnight cat; and its
by-drinkings may be over the odds. But it
isn’t a haunter of midnight sprees of the
kind which “Hater of Cant” seems to have
attended. It doesn’t keep away from these
entertainments out of any high moral senti-
ment, but simply because it knows that
Hater of Cant” is looking through the
keyhole. And it absolutely hates to fall over
Hater of Cant” and break its leg in the
collision, when it is leaving the dissipated
scene on its way home.
♦
An Anomaly on Its Defence.
The Sydney Telegraph weighed in with an
interesting sample of false reasoning last
week. The occasion was the declaration by
Cocks, M.L.A. and Alderman, that the
monopoly in the wheeled traffic carrying
business which the Sydney Ferries Co. holds
and _ so disgracefully abuses, should be
assailed by nationalisation. Embittered at
the spectacle of a leading Liberal advocat-
ing Socialism the paper held forth in the
following disingenuous fashion :
If the Lord Mayor thinks the vehicular ferry to
North Sydney should be free, there is nothing we
know of to prevent him leading a deputation to the
Government to make a request to that effect. But
supposing he succeeded in persuading the Cabinet
that people should be enabled to ride and drive
across the harbor at the public expense, that would
be an invidious privilege. If a person in a motor-
car could be ferried over without paying while the
individual passenger had to pay, that would mean
that the greater number of people were being penal-
ised to give a minority free rides. Consequently, if
the Lord Mayor desires to see charges abolished,
surely he should begin on the passenger service. Even
then, however, there would remain the anomaly of
people being compelled to pay on the trams. There
are very many to whom the tram is fully as indis-
pensable as the ferry to those who use it, but who
do not travel across the water. Why should they
have to pay in addition to bearing their proportion
of the cost of a deadhead ferry ? Then if the trams
were made free, those who have to use trains would
naturally complain that they were being compara-
tively penalised. So that to be logical, the Lord
Mayor ought to advocate free travelling all round.
Of course, in a city that wasn’t well under
the thumb of vested interests, the ferries,
both passenger and vehicular, would be free.
The gaping flaw in the Telegraph’s conten-
tion to the contrary—a flaw which was as
obvious probably to the man who was re-
sponsible for it as it is to the general public
—lies in the assertion that trams, trains and
so forth are as indispensable to the modern
citizen as ferries. It is on all fours, in the
matter of irrationality, with the assertion
that public houses are as essential as streets.
It is equivalent to a demand that pikes and
toll-bars should be re-introduced on our
roads and bridges. No one form of land
conveyance is absolutely indispensable to the
residents of a great city—a fact which was
demonstrated clearly during the Sydney
tram strike of a few years back. If every
tram in Sydney and Melbourne went out of
the business to-morrow the inhabitants
would still get about more or less as here-
tofore. They might be late at their offices
or what not; they might have to walk more
than they liked; and they might have to
crowd into malodorous ’buses and hearses
and char-a-bancs and similar vehicles. But
they would get there in the end. And the
same applies to the trains. The inhabitants of
Strathfield, Summer Hill and other railway
suburbs could get to and from their homes —
however uncomfortably—even in the incred-
ible event of a general railway strike —the
rarest of calamities in a State-run service.
But with the total stoppage of the ferry
boats, the vast majority of the 100,000 and
odd people who live on the North Shore of
Sydney Harbor would be literally marooned.
Anyone can walk along a road, but no one
save a professional merman can swim to his
daily toil across half a mile or more of
shark-infested water. As a matter of fact,
this principle of the reasonableness of free
ferries has always been recognised by alleg-
edly Liberal and anti-Socialistic adminis-
trations in N. S. Wales, except as regards
the strip of water which is exploited to such
profitable purpose by the Sydney Ferries
Co. A mile or so to the north of the pri-
vately-owned and extortionately-expensive
horse-punt, there is a State-owned punt which
carries passengers and vehicles free of charge.
And it is possible up-country to find scores of
similar institutions; while a private enter-
prise horse- or other ferry is as non-existent
almost as the Great Auk. The sturdily demo-
cratic reference by the Telegraph, to the
inequity of carrying motorists for nothing is
flagrant cant. The Telegraph holds no brief
for those who lack motor-cars. The Tory
paper’s remarks in this connection are inspired
not by the fact that it loves the motor-owning
class less, but that it loves monopolies more.
The increased charges on the horse-punt will
mean nothing to motorists; hut they will
mean a very great deal to North Sydney con-
sumers, who will certainly have the increased
charges passed on to them by shopkeepers on
both sides of the water. If the Sydney Fer-
ries Co.’s horse-?punts weren’t served at both
ends by publicly-owned and lighted and main-
tained roads; if the conveyances weren’t
grotesquely old-fashioned and slow and dirty ;
if their lumbering progress across the Har-
bor didn’t constitute a standing peril to navi-
gation ; and if, in face of all these things, their
directors hadn’t recently had the imperial
hide to raise the fares on them 133 per cent.,
the case for the defence, in their regard,
might have something faintly resembling a
limb to rest on. As things stand, there
are no better arguments for the further en-
durance of this horrible service than there
are for the encouragement of famished
jaguars in our public places.
The Futile Leader.
The views of the undersigned :—■
What is the characteristic that operates chiefly
to produce a feeble political leader ? . Not weakness.
Years may pass wiuiout a politician’s nerve and
resolution being once put to the test. Not un-
scrupulousness. Some of the most successful party
leaders in history have been notably short on the
ethical side. The incurable and unforgivable faults
in the political game—the disabilities which cor-
respond to slowness in a racehorse, a wooden leg in a
footballer, galloping consumption in a pugilist and
so on—are the platitude habit, an absence of ideas,
and a lack of any sort of exact and intimate ac-
quaintance with the issues of the day. W. A.
Holman has superseded his old leader in the N. S.
Wales Premiersnip not because he is more forceful
(on some such simple, forthright question as the
proper conduct of a Sunday-school McGowen would
completely dominate Holman in all likelihood) ; not
because he is more respected; but because
he knows more and can express what he knows in
coherent language. Andrew Fisher was a puppet,
to a great extent, during the recent election cam-
paign. The real leader of the Federal Labor Party,
the man who voiced an'd expounded its policy, re-
plied to misrepresentations, and in general bore the
heat and burden of the day was W. M. Hughes.
Hughes has ideas and knowledge; Fisher
hasn’t. For years past N.S.W. Liberals have been
accustomed after each election, or other political row,
to acclaim C. G. Wade as a man and vilify him as
a leader. This time Wade has been vilified hardly at
all. He presented the case for a “No” vote,
such as it was, more effectively than anyone else did
in N. S. Wales. As one result, the people who are
hungering after his job will have a poor chance of
making good. Joseph Cook, as leader of Federal
Liberalism, staggers heavily under the handicap of
not knowing enough. He may be as industrious as
an entire nest of ants; also “a trenchant debater,”
whatever that may mean, “an old and astute
political hand,” and all the other things that his
party press says he is, but the fact remains that on
the big questions of the day—the Tariff, for ex-
ample, and the necessity or otherwise of changes in
the Constitution —he has nothing new or suggestive
to say. His platform efforts last month were pathetic.
He simply blithered for the most part. Such oratory
goes down well enough with the completely illiterate,
hut it must have brought a chill of grief to the
hearts of his more intelligent supporters.
Last week he set out to speak to the Liberal
women of North Sydney on “the political future.”
His remarks on that occasion were typical of the
remarks he has been making ever since the writs
were issued. He began by suggesting to the audience
that “it would have been simple justice if he and
Colonel Ryrie were able to give Mr. Fuller some
votes out of their majorities to return him to the
House.” A childish aspiration at the best; and the
more so in view of the fact that there were
Laborites such as W. M. Hughes and Josiah Thomas
with majorities of over 10,000 to spare for unsuc-
cessful candidates of their way of thinking. After a
few moans about the delay that took place in the
counting of the votes, the time-hallowed old gag
was led forth about “the North Sydney electorates
always being looked on as the blue ribbon electorates
of Australia.” A Liberal politician with nothing
much to say always refers to the constituency he
happens to be speaking in for the moment as a blue
ribbon one. Thus East Sydney was the blue ribbon
electorate of Australia till West, M.P., won it.
Nobody knows exactly what a blue ribbon
electorate is. But the phrase seems to go
well with political audiences. From the blue
ribbon business Cook passed on inevitably to
Speaker Willis and his alleged infamies and so to
the customary vague unsatisfying chat about “free-
dom.” He mentioned that there was a “revival of
the liberty-loving spirit,” that “the price of liberty
was eternal vigilance” and that it was “a good thing
they had the freedom-loving citizens of Australia to
tall back on.” He also stated that “North Sydney
bad struck a blow for freedom that would reverberate
through Australia” ; and that “North Sydney had
said that it would have free politics in Australia.”
Tn his peroration he “hoped to hear the voice ringing
true, as in the past,” and likewise “the chorus
sound, for all who care to hear it, that the people
stand for free opportunities in this freest, best and
brightest of all the free lands of the world” (Deaf-
ening applause). What windy, superfluous rot it all
is! And how dreary must be the faces of Liberals
of real capacity, such as W. H. Irvine and P.
McMahon Glynn, as they read it and reflect that
the person who is guilty of it is their chief.
Tn the whole of Cook’s address, which the S. M.
Herald headed “The Political Future: An Appeal to
Patriotic .Citizens,” there was not one word on the
subject of Liberalism’s intentions; and no coherent
appeal was made to anyone. No fresh legislation was
foreshadowed. It is true that there was a mysteri-
ous reference to the advisability of “making short
work of that blighting Socialism,” but the speaker
refrained from specifying so much as one Socialistic
blight that he intended to assail.
Cook’s actions of late stamp him clearly as one
of those disastrous leaders who are uncertain as to
the correct Blight to assail, who don’t know the
arguments for and against the different Blights, and
who are driven in consequence to more or less safe
generalisations about Blights and the ghastly menace
of them, mixed up with the old, old "platform
cliches that have been doing service for decades.
The persistent utterance of such banalities does more
to kill a man, as a Party leader, than if he were
arrested and fined from time to time for being
drunk and disorderly.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Humanising the Pore Farmer.
When the Vic. Rural Workers’ Union log
has been planed down a little, and accepted,
there should be an end to the farmers’ time-
honored game of engaging casual youth
labor for a short season at 4s. a week, vil-
lainous tucker and a shake-down in the cow
shed. Shrieking against the audacity of the
Union’s proposed log the Minister for
Immigration declared that under pre-
sent conditions, which are go-as-you-please
conditions, there is “an unlimited demand
for boys or youths from 17 to 22 years of
age, at a weekly wage of from 10s. to 20s.
and keep.” The value of that unprincely
wage depends largely off the character of
the “keep,” but where is the evidence that
farmers are ordinarily paying, say. 16s. a
week to experienced 20-year-old hands? The
demand is for labor that can be fooled,
sweated and sworn at with impunity. The
loudest outcry against the log, in its rough
state, comes from tyrannical old skinflints
who have never dreamed of paying £1 a
week to a full-grown young worker,
especially if he happens to be one of their
“6wn flesh and blood.” Inasmuch as the
Union’s rough draft log asks for a little
more than a fair thing, these farmers, who
have never given a wage approaching to a
fair thing, are simply flabbergasted. But
in their indignation at the “rapacious de-
mands of the workers” they may
presently arrive at a dim sense of their own
rapacity in the past. The effect of the scare
should be morally improving.
♦
The Vested Interests of Melbourne.
Melbourne, regarded as one of Australia’s
first-class ports, has struck real trouble
earlier than was expected. It is reckoned
by pilots that no vessel drawing more than
30ft. of water can. safely negotiate the
Heads, to say nothing of the enormously
long channel between the Heads and Port
Melbourne. The nominal depth at the en-
trance is a good deal over 30ft., but then a
heavy sea is liable to lift a boat a fathom
or so, and then drop it with a thud for a
fathom or so, and except in dead smooth
weather it isn’t safe to rely on the nominal
depth of water. Even now, though no sea
leviathans have come to Australia yet, the
biggest vessels sneak unobtrusively out oi
Port Phillip only partly laden, and finish
their loading at Hobart. And when the
real leviathans come they will have to do so
much of their loading at Hobart or there-
abouts that it will be hardly worth while to
take them into Melbourne at all. This is
pretty bad, but it isn’t the immediate
trouble. What has struck Melbourne like a
plank on the stomach is the news that the
warship Australia may have to cut the
great city dead, like a poor relation, by
reason of lack of water. If it does get in it
will have to select its times and seasons very
carefully and trust a great deal to luck.
Now the Australia isn’t an absolute giant.
It is nothing like the vessels that are ex-
pected in the comparatively near future.
And if there is even a reasonable suspicion
that it can’t get in except at great risk Mel-
bourne may write its own epitaph and hunt
for a back seat. The lion that eats mice in
its old age, and the port that eats ketches
in its declining years, are much the same.
They are equally pathetic. It is reckoned
that six years of costly dredging will bring
Melbourne harbor up to date—when a har-
bor is so vast that you are almost out of
sight of land in the middle of it the chan-
nels are very long and require a lot of
bringing up to date. But six years will
bring the date to 1919, and if by 1919 the
amazing harbor can only be brought up level
with the requirements of 1913—well, what
of the new requirements which will have
sprung up in the interim? And what of
the requirements which will spring up in
the next interim —the one between 1919 and
1925? Certainly there are possibilities
about Portland, and boundless possibilities
about Westernport, but if Melbourne's
“vested interests” won’t allow these places
to be developed then the big ships will pass
by with a cough and a scoff, and Victoria
will become a commercial outlier and a sort
of remnant.
+
It is a pity (but then it is easy to be wise
after the event) that the Fisher Govern-
ment didn’t, partly as an act of gratitude,
and partly as a matter of policy, arrange for
at least one good man to stump the Hume
electorate on behalf of its staunch old ally,
Bill Lyne. No pledged Laborite was put
up against William, partly because he
would have had no chance, and partly be-
cause it would have been playing it too low
down on an old friend. But that passive?
support was all the support the old friend!
got, and, being too ill to stump the elector-
ate himself, he had to let things go by
default. The ancient electors probably
stood by him, but there was, of course, the
new generation which knew not William,
and William couldn’t go round and show
them his aged but forceful personality.' He
lost by such a narrow margin that it is
plain a very little personal effort would have
saved him. And the ghastly jest was that
the Hume election turned a Fisher majority
of one in the House of Reps., into a Cook
majority of one, and that when Uncle Bill
went down, the Fisher Government went
down also. Of course Fisher could hold
on. _ He has got the Senate by a vast
majority, and, owing to the incurable ab-
senteeism of many of the Cook people, he
would probably be stronger in the Reps., at
nine divisions out of 10, with his small
minority, than Cook with his small ma-
jority. But, according to political etiquette,
the Government has to go out—by reason of
the loss of Bill Lyne’s seat. And Bill
deserved better luck.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Two of Sydney’s fattest cormorants are get-
ting the most of the bit of sunshine left
them. The Ferries Co., having evidently
made up its mind that a harbor bridge can’t
be choked off many centuries longer, has;
come out with a revised scale of horse-punt:
charges, in many cases more than doubling
them. There are no wharves and practically
no factories on the north side of the Har-
bor. Over there the people live; on the
other side they work. Therefore the gro-
ceries and the meat and the painted toy for
little Willie to suck have to be carted
across the water; what little doesn’t go that
way has to make a day’s journey up the
Parramatta and thus to the North Shore by
bridge. So the extra punt charges merely
mean another boost to the cost of living on
the healthy north side of the Harbor. And
the cost was almost colossal already—say;
33 per cent, more than in the inner western
(railway) suburbs. While the Ferry Co. is
thus getting in its fine work, the big Gas
Co., knowing that the time is near at hand
when, under last year’s Act, it must main-
tain a standard of purity and pressure, is
also busy making hay. There is hardly a
day that big gas-users don’t have to make
complaint. Occasionally it is because the
quality is bad: oftener it is because the
pressure for power purposes, dwindles to
nothing, and the machinery gives a sigh and
stops dead. There is a story, told on good
authority, that there was so little pressure
one day lately that in the co.’s own offices
the staff had to bring in candles to work by
“Lex” on a matter of current interest: —
On a point of law, or rather on several of them
the N. S. Wales Government has established its
right to oust the Governor-General from Macquarie
street —-which is to say from N. S. Wales. The Higt ,
Court decided unanimously last week that the Con
stitution Act of 1854 empowered the N. S. Wale!
Government to do anything it liked with Crowi
Lands and the public buildings on them. Hence in
can resume Government House Grounds and turr
the edifice thereon into a hospital or an art gallery-,
or a lunatic asylum, or a soup kitchen, or any on*
of the 101 things that were mentioned when the
eviction row was at its height. The Government
has achieved most of the objects which it aimed at
It has taught the Australian Parliament a lesson
by way of answer to the latter’s attitude on th<j
State Savings Banks matter. . Also, it has vindicated
State Rights in some vague wav or other. And it
has secured an immense building which is utterlj
useless for any other purpose than a residence—and
a wealthy man’s residence at that. There is no
doubt that the State Righters of the Government
cherished the hope all along, that with the Governor-
General pushed out of the big Macquarie-street man-
sion, the way would be open for the installation
there of a State Governor—the official whose office
the State Labor party is pledged to abolish at the
earliest opportunity. That diverting spectacle may
yet b<? witnessed —provided always N. S. Wales is able
Mrs. Jane Boggs.
“My wife is dead against the Labor party all the
time! The country is going to the dogs. My wife
says” Conversational howl heard while the roar-
ing Sydney tram checked for an instant at an unim-
portant stopping-place.
Jane Boggs was a Very Respectable frump
Who resided tar out of the city ;
Her man was a Very Respectable chump,
And he quoted his wife! 'Twas a pity,
For his well-beloved Jane wasn’t burdened
with brain,
And her very small claim to attention
Was a singular knack of impressively quack-
ing remarks with immense condescension.
They were bald, they were bare—but she
* had such an “air”
When she blithered, that all paid atten-
tion.
Jane Boggs never did a dashed thing in her
life,
But she laid down the law with a shovel.
Poor Boggs used to listen with awe to his
wife,
And invite friends before her to grovel.
Twas a confidence trick, but she did it so
slick
That it took him right in, and he won-
dered
Why the State didn’t pause when she laid
down the laws.
It must know when Jane lightened and
thundered !
Being deafened by her, it used never occur
To poor Boggs that none knew when she
thundered.
Tane Boggs in her home used to sentence to
death
Many wretches who never suspected
Their crimes (in the paper) had squeezed a
sharp breath
From a grim, hair-pinned Judge, self-
elected.
She awarded V.C.’s and bouquets and de-
grees
In a manner impartial and hearty.
But she was at her best when she stuck out
her chest
And disposed of the vile Labor party.
Not a sinew, or hair, or a bone would she
spare
Of that demon she called “Labahpahty.”
Jane Boggs never moved from her kingdom
five-roomed,
But she knew all the Very Best scandal;
And when at large matters she’d battered
and boomed,
She just turned on the light social handle.
Then the visiting frumps, grouped in masses
and clumps,
Sat appalled at the secrets she’d gathered ;
They were rank —they were wild, but the
wise way she smiled
Took them in as she blithered and
blathered.
.Jane’s invaluable “air,” as she lied in her
chair,
Made it go, though they half-guessed she
blathered.
Jane Boggs is about us on every side,
And she gets in the way at all seasons ;
She’s not a bad sort, but she’s Stodge deified,
And she’s Safe, for none ask her for
Reasons.
Though her judgments are fudge, she’s both
jury and Judge,
And a Nihilist, too, for her chatter,
In a plain moral sense causes outbreaks im-
mense,
And of homes makes a notable scatter.
She’s the Hermit Who Knows, and she
blithers and blows.
And blathers, and blatters, and looks down
her nose,
Though it’s plain as a pikestaff to all, I
suppose,
She’s no secrets to bare and no knowledge
to spare,
And is futile right through, from her boots
to her hair.
But she has One Great Asset —that Won-
derful “AIR” /
Which stuns Common Sense when she yam-
mers with grace,
And, without any thought, Makes a Noise
With Her Face.
It is just on account of eternal Jane Boggs
That I’m giving my moral support to the
Dogs.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
Esteb 1768
m
Estab 1742
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
. . .and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
r
Dressmakers
are beginning to realise the value of the
pictures. They come to our theatres to see
the latest Paris fashions, just as they look
in real life.
Every week's newspictures show how the
women of Europe are dressing now.
Our New Theatre:
The Empress, Prahran (Melbourne),
and 6 others.
WM. B. MILLER , Gen’l Manager.
K 8
WHERE
tYIRYBOvT
GOES
to allure a State Governor with not less than
£IO,OOO per annum of private income that he is
prepared to spend in this country. As against the
above advantages, or whatever they may be termed,
there is the consideration that, pending the arrival
of a particularly affluent State Governor the whole
of the cost of the upkeep of this huge place devolves
On the already financially embarrassed Holman Ad-
ministration. It is not a reproductive work. It can’t
very well be pawned. No one will pay to look at it. It
just sits there looking out over the Harbor and eats
up so many thousands per annum. Also, the seizure
of the place has irritated Nationalists all over the
State; a circumstance which is not going to help the
Holman party at the coming elections.
A side issue that is of some interest concerns the
probable attitude of the WADE-ites in this connection,
assuming they get back to power at nest State elec-
tions. Will they undo the work of Holman ? And.
if so, is the Macquarie-street Government House to
be seized and let go again alternately, with the
comings and goings of Laborites and Liberals, for as
long as the party system shall endure?
Another absorbing side-issue is the matter of Costs.
Someone is apparently going to pay the lot on behalf
of the relators. Who is this lavish patriot ? Mav-
hap the passionately “loyal” Henlet. On the other
hand, mayhap not. Experience goes to show that
where the loud blither is, and the uproarious self-
advertisement in public places, there the cash dis-
bursement is not.
The ca’ canny policy was squeezed for some
of its ill-gotten gains in Maoriland last week.
At Auckland, a couple of wharf lumpers,
while grafting on one of the mail boats,
showed a turn of industry which earned for
them time and a half execration from other
members of the local Waterside Workers’
Union. In fact, so strongly did the Union
resent this inclination for not “keeping the
job sweet ” that it fined the two reckless
toilers the total amount of their earnings
during the time they were making industrial
beasts of themselves. Also, the r.t's were
warned off the union’s waiting premises;
and, in short, were pushed overboard gener-
ally as non-unionists and persons calculated
to disturb the usual calm of the proceedings.
The result was that, under the preference
clause of the award, they were unable
to obtain further work on the water-
front. This led them to look for work at
the Supreme Court. To that hive of in-
dustry, therefore, they dragged the secre-
tary of the union, and wiped the floor or
swabbed the decks with him before Justice
Edwards. After they had concluded,
the Judge gave it as his opinion that the
union, without a shade of right or authority,
had penalised plaintiffs for doing nothing
of which the strictest unionist should dis-
approve. And, to show the difference be-
tween his brand of opinion and the mere
ordinary kind, he ordered the union to split
up £135 between the two interrupted
grafters.
Pie Commissioner George Reid is in the
Royal Academy this year. Coates, the Aus-
tralian, painted the frail lily and adorned
the languorous rose.
There is another man, apparently, who
is beginning to see another side to this mag-
nificent business of “bringing capital into
the country.” This is Archbishop Wright,
of Sydney, at present busy cadging in Eng-
land. “It’s said.” he told the Church
Society the other day—“it’s said our re-
sources ought to be sufficient for the work.
It is true that we have goldfields, but we
don’t get much of the gold. If you want to
know where the gold goes, ask the directors
and shareholders of the London limited lia-
bility companies.” Also, by the way. it
might be as well to ask the brilliant young
Australians who are making heaps of money
for other people in other countries, having
been driven afield through the vicious Aus-
tralian habit of importing indifferent
Wrights and utter Rongs to take the best-
salaried Australian billets.
Works Minister Johnson (W.A.) is in a
place so warm that before he is out he will
have lost most of his pretty feathers. In
signing a contract with the wood-powellising
co. for the treatment of karri railwav
sleepers, he agreed that for 10 years the co.
should be paid for “at least 10 million super,
feet annually” whether it does the
work or not. _ This may mean the payment
of at least £37.500 a year for nothing. The
process, which is to kill white ants and pre-
vent dry rot, is looked upon with doubtful
eyes by very many people in W.A.. and in
any case, someone with a better idea may
arrive any day. Nevertheless, the State has
been tied fast to the Powell Wood Process
Co. for a long period, and if it uses anv
other process it has to pay the Powell people
all the same.
Westralian Laborites begin to take a
serious view of the loose leg some Labor
M's.P. have been flinging, and at the coming
State congress to be held at Fremantle these
propositions will be made: —
(1) No Labor member shall receive for work done
any money other than his Parliamentary salary
(2) When the House is not sitting, members shall
devote their time to organising.
(3) One month’s holiday to be allowed each vear.
(4) Every member to hand to the district Labor
Federation his signed undated resignation.
These crude ideas may be modified, but
there is the right essence in them, and it is
almost certain that in some form or other
they will be adopted.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Rotal “Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
Her Majesty's .'... “Autumn Manoeuvres.”
Criterion “Excuse Me.”
Palace The Grafters.
Adelphi “Life’s Shop Window.”
Tivoli Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Bobby Burnit.”
National Amphir.,katre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lycecm Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric t
Colonial - Continuous Pictures.
Empress. /
Crystal Pai.acb Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Town Hall Clara Butt Concerts.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
Glaciaricm Ice Skating.
Protestant Hall Joseph McCabe.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Adeline Genee.
Princess’s “Cowboy and Squaw.”
King’s “The Native Born.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou “Girl Behind the Counter.”
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer's Pictures.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Athex.eim Hall Melb. Repertory Theatre.
Kennerley Rumford and his sumptuous
wife gave their first concert in the Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night, and the Mel-
bourne verdict will not be reversed. Mrs.
Rumford (Clara Butt) brings the superb
voice she always owned, and with it more
experience and intensity. There is little
likeness between her programmes of to-day
and of five years ago. This time she sup-
plies far better stuff, and her work shows a
quite extraordinary versatility. Her articu-
lation is perfect; and there is hardly a num-
ber from which she does not get the utmost
there is in it. And Kennerley Rumford is
worthy to stand beside his missus. An artist
through and through, he is especially charm-
ing where vigorous treatment is called for.
Harold Craxton. their accompanist, in spite
of his appearance of boredom, shares in a
minor degree in the triumphs of the prin-
cipals. One might almost say that he and
the principals, whichever of them it hap-
pens. to be, provide a duet, so admirable
is his work at the piano. Solo pianist
Murdoch, down with influenza at the first
concert, had Laurence Godfrey Smith for a
locum-tenens; and Mowat Carter got the
reception of his life when he reappeared in
his native Sydney with his much-polished
violin. A liberal programme of concerts
has been arranged under the Tait
management, and the music-lover who misses
the lot will only do it because either he is
temporarily dead or his pockets are empty.
** * *
The platform of the Criterion railway
terminus. Sydney, is packed every evening
to see the passengers in the Overland Lim-
ited Express. "Excuse Me.” start on their
exciting journey from honeymoon to farce.
“ EXCUSE ME,"
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Lathrop (John De Lacey) treats Parson Temple
(Ray Royce) to a whisky and soda.
The chief weakness of “Bobby Burnit.”
the popular American comedy at the Little
Theatre. Sydney, is in portrait painting.
The portraits of the founder of the Burnit
stores and of his rival and successor, hung
prominently on the wall, prove that art in
that back-blocks township was in the paleo-
lithic stage. The comedy gets valuable aid
from the natural acting of Miss Lilian
Lloyd in the part of a stenographer; and
Mr. Hugh Buckler’s Bobby Burnit. the in-
genuous youth who discovers that in order
to make a success as a business man all one
has to do is to own the majoritv of shares
in a business enterprise, is a delightful piece
of character-acting.
* $ * =s '
The Grafters have been up
Palace (Sydney) audiences this past week
with a trifle of plot, plenty of rag-time
trimmings and soubrette sauce. For
stronger apnetites there is an abundance of
nice leg (d la mode ) and fancy tarts. The
catchy music is putting new wrinkles into
the street boys’ faces and “Wouldn’t That
Be a Dream” is “the quince item” on the
suburban pianoforte. Further remarks
would be superfluous or thereabouts.
* * * *
At West’s Olympia (Sydney), that clever
cino. actress, Asta Nielsen, is being un-
canned nightly from a brand of goods known
as- “Spanish Blood.” Asta is thrice blessed.
Once by the producer of the picture; once
by Manager Edwin Geach (who collects the
profits) ; and once by The Bulletin critic.
At Spencer's Lyceum the consumption of
meaty Wowsers by a flock of lions goes on
each evening. Alas, the Wowsers are
foreigners! “Quo Vadis” is in its seventh
week, and the hunger of the beasts for
Wowsers and the consequent applause of
enlightened audiences show no sign of abate-
ment.
* * * *
The difficulty at the National (Sydney)
Amphitheatre these days is to know what
nationality its name refers to. First of all,
the inquirer is informed that the show is
“Vaudeville de Luxe.” Then he learns that
“the record season” of the Banzai family of
Japs, will close next Wednesday. After
that his eye is attracted by the name of
Eugene Ossipoff, a Russian baritone with
operatic reputation; by Wong Toy Sun
("illustrious Chinese conjurer”) ; and by
George Murphy, “the Irish-American talking
juggler.” Certainly there are the Four
Stagpooles, of Australia ; but their turn is
merely thrown in as “potted pantomime.”
Lately one of London’s theatrical attrac-
tions has been a Chinese play wherein the
chief character is a sort of professional
directory or shop-walker, who makes various
announcements re the plot and supplies
general information gratis. Unfortunately
the Sydney Adelphi has no such intelligence-
bureau in “Life’s Shop Window,” but if it
had one his explanation would have been
something like this :
“The first hact, ladies an' gentlemen, as you will
find out later on, ’as no more to do with th' plot
than it ’as with Joe Cook's great Liberal victory.
You needn’t worry about most of th’ characters in
it; they won’t be seen after this hact ( loud ap-
plause). The lady with the dish o’ potatoes is the
’eroine. There will now. be a sudden storm. The
noise, gents, is thunder, and these streaks of shadow
is raindrops ( inaudible remark from gallery). The
person with leggin’s is Bernard Chetwyn, Esq., the
hero (’ooray /), and the heroine is ’is wife. This is
hact 2, and represents the hinterior of the ’ouse on
the hero's ranch in Arizona. The tall man with the
fur cap is the villain {groans). He will now ex-
plain at great length why the play is called ‘Life's
Shop Window,’ instead of ‘Romeo and Juliet,’ and
you are supposed to believe him. Presently one of
th’ horchestra will play a violin solo, but you must
think it is the villain; it will be worthy of ’im.
Hact 3. The heroine is now being persuaded by the
villain to run away to London (groans from the
Opposition benches), and although the good young
man with the white shirt will put in bis word, he
won’t stop her. The specimen in th’ background is
the tame Indian —patent applied for. It will be his
business to bring the bolting missus home again.
This is the last hact ( loud applause). 'Ere we see
the villain and the ’eroine (‘Oh, the 'ussy!’) hav-
ing a spell for refreshments on th' road to London.
The noise behind the scenes is th’ faithful Hindian
picking up the trail. Later on, he will pick up the
lady. Scene 2 is the ranch in Arizona. In five
seconds the wife, the Hindian and the villain will
come back to the sorrowful ’usband, and the hero
and heroine will make it up, and the villain
(laughter) will be forcibly removed (voice from
gods : ‘Why? ’E ain’t done nothink !’).” Curtain.
Although "Life's Shop Window” isn’t calcu-
lated to bring everlasting fame to the author,
it should keep the box office moving for the
few weeks it is to run. Max Clifton has
the misfortune to have the very weak part
of hero, and doesn’t get a chance. Roy
Redgrave, the persuasive villain; Olive Wil-
ton. the unfaithful wife; and R. Beckett,
the farm hand with the white shirt —all
stand out well, in a very fair cast.
* s= * *
W. H. Gocher. a well-known N.S.W.
pressman, announces that he will hold forth
on July 1 at the Unitarian Church in Liver-
pool-street, Sydney, on "Pierpont Morgan
and the Methods of Modern Finance.” It
seems to The Bulletin that a subject of
that size would fill the whole Domain, and
that the address ought to be started at S
a.m. instead of S p.m.. if the lecturer hopes
to get over the outer fringe of his topic
before the last tramcar leaves for Botany.
After much booming “The Glory Girl”
made her appearance at Sydney Tivoli last
Saturday. The turn consists of a good-look-
ing girl, a white frock, a "devotional” atti-
tude and the singing of “Ave Maria” and
"Ora Pro Nobis” in a rather pretty voice.
There’s nothing startling in it, but it is
novel and above the general run of vaude-
ville solos. Alexander Prince, the concer-
tina player, has only a few more days in
Sydney before he leaves for the Fog. and
Tiv. audiences are making the most of their
opportunity. De Mario and Lady aud the
Four Quaint Q’s are in their last nights,
but the Banvards. the other headliners, will
fly till further notice.
* * *
“Nigger Jim.” a colored film, was the most
entertaining of a very good collection of
pictures at the Crystal Palace (Svdnev)
this week. The racing scenes (in color)
were the best seen hereabouts for a con-
siderable time; and “Our Daily Bread” was
an interesting “industrial,” showing the
various stages in the mixing and cooking of
the staff of life. &
* * *
The Asche-Brayton season at Svdner
Royal is ending. Another Bulletin' will
hurry out before the advertised finish of the
season (Friday, July 4) ; but the playgoer
cannot be warned too early. After July 4
there will be no more Midsummer Dreaming
and Winter will rage unrelieved.
-S # # #
“ Autum , n r Manoeuvres” supersedes the
Count of Luxembourg” at Her Majesty’s
Sydney, next Saturday night. It is a mili-
tary musical comedy with a powerful dash
of drama in it and a solid flavoring of
sentiment. The whole strength of the New
Comic Opera Co.—Florence Young. Tallenr
Andrews. Sybil Arundale, Roberts. Dorothy
Brunton and the new comedian. Smith is
putting its collective back into the new pro-
duction, with the frankly expressed inten-
tion of making it one of the most blithering
successes on record.
“ BOBBY BURNIT, "AT
THE LITTLE
THEATRE ,
SYDNEY.
Biff Bates (Ken-
neth Brampton)
ready to strike
for the right.
Hugh Buckler
reads a
pathetic letter.
Musically conducted by H. R. Holder, and
“produced” by H. W. Varna, "Dorothy” has
had a successful week at Adelaide Royal.
The amateur cast was weak in spots, but
the chorus-singing was praiseworthv. Miss
Violet Payne led the hunting song in Nellie
Stewart s best manner. This young woman
has a fine voice, as also has Fred Ellis, who
delivered “Queen of My Heart” in a manner
that enthused all but the starkest cynics.
The other principals, Herbert Walsh and
Miss Ruby Jones, acted well and sang ade-
quately. Ray Walsh, as Lurcher, was
funny, but over-deliberate. Lurcher should
bubble ; Walsh merely simmered. The star-
light of “Dorothy” has now given wav to the
Sunshine of the “Girl” of that name'.
** * *
A single drama “Quo Vadis,” wonder-
fully filmed, holds the screen, and crowds
the house, at West’s, in Adelaide. The
policy of a single big attraction is justifying
itself amply. Wondergraph—whose new
house is nearly ready—is showing American
battle-scenes at the Town Hall, and the
sporting little all-day Pavilion has just cele-
brated its first birthday. Madge Temple is
at the Tivoli, scoring a marked success,
although her songs have mostly been given
before by others. The Jackson family has
just dropped its cycling turn into the Tivoli
bill. At the King's are the Heraldos, on a
return visit. De Lea and Orm, tenor Cheno-
weth (of Adelaide) and other clever people.
Peter Dawson has had a welcome-back con-
cert, and is in fine voice. Also, Clara Butt
was able to get the Town Hall for a farewell
afternoon. “Land of Hope and Glory,” she
says modestly, "is nothing without an
organ." and the Exhibition hasn't one.
Hence the struggle for the Town Hall,
which, of course, owns the necessarv chest of
whistles.
* * * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
Miss Frances Hodgkins, the Paris-trained Maori-
lander, is showing her water-colors in the Adelaide
Society of Arts rooms. The whole city is looking
at them hard, but dubiously. Almost always it looks
at them much too close. The sprawls and daubs on
the canvas that bewilder at short range blend toge-
ther when one gets well back, and suddenly one real-
ises the idea, and the things the artist saw in France
or Holland or Africa are seen here, too. Some of the
hilltop and cloud effects have an air of Lambert;
elsewhere there is a strong suggestion of Blamire
Young.
** * #
At Her Majesty's (Melb.) last Saturday
night, a large number of people who
had gone to worship Adelina Gen4e re-


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car.
STONELEIGH
"Weig'ht of
Chassis, llcwt.
Silent Knight Daimler Engine, Detachable Wire Wheels, Worm Drive, etc.
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne!
HUGH V. McKAY, Sydney & Adelaide!
Agents.
0OORD&SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
D T
i
SWIFT &■ COMPANY, AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS. O COJJNEIX St SYDNIf
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. n; H pV; .c. . CV Mirv
s. j. fowler, Manager. ntt e lung otreets, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged, Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
G. HOWARD POPE,
SYDNEY H. CARY,
Manager.
Chairman
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [0
mained to cheer for Halina Schmolz. Not
f 7 . an f s P° ts on the dainty art
of Gende, but it lacked the expression of
saccharine sentimentality which many of
them had expected, and which appealed to
all of them in the amorous flirtation duet of
llaJina Schmolz with Alexander Volinin
and again in the lady’s solo dance of the
dying Swan, where she achieves the effect
ot almost fainting on her toe tips ere she
finally drops dead in a graceful heap. Be-
cause these two items, which happen in the
third or ‘ Divertissements” section of the
programme, are the most seriously poetic
features of a well-varied entertainment the
audience would have been quite content to
accept the Schmolz lady as the star dancer.
Her poses and her toeses had all the dis-
tinctive charm of classic scholarship that
they were looking for. She tripped the
dance that reached the heart. She was ihe
tender ballad stepper; Gende the sportive
comic-operatic soubrette.
The piece de resistance is “Coppelia,” a
ballet in two acts, elaborated from the Doll
story in “The Tales of Hoffmann,” and
entirely altered in the climax. Genee is the
leading village coquette, Volinin the fatuous
young man who gets struck on the life-like
doll seated in a chair behind the first floor
window of the old toy-maker’s house. Genee
dances a lot, and always charmingly, alone
or with the other villagers. Incidentally the
Russian Ballet is introduced, and gives only
a sbmewhat more finished performance of
the gambols that the best Williamsonian
ballerinas have accustomed us to. Six bright
Australian girls dance attendance on Genee,
and are perceptibly more youthful, though
less expert, than their humorous leader.
Gen6e s pantomime is the perfection of story
without words. Her veracity of facial ex-
pression compensates for her want of pretti-
ness. She gets her best effects in the second
act, where she leads the six girls into the
puppet room, substitutes herself for the doli
(whom she closely resembles), fools the old
mechanic into thinking he has put “life”
into the figure, and eventually skips off with
her chosen boob. From first to last the
dumb dancing comedy is most interesting,
and the credit for keeping it up to concert
pitch is Genre’s. _ Volinin, a beautifully light
dancer, with divine legs, Jan Zaleuski (as
Dr. Coppelius) and the two principals of
the Russian ballet give valuable assistance.
The stagihg is excellent. A word of praise
is due to the unnamed young woman
who sits for the doll, and preserves her form
and stare unmoved under trying conditions.
Were she less unreal the humor of Gende's
impersonation of her would be less convinc-
ing. This is Australia’s first experience of
a long comic story ballet, and the audience
must have been fully impressed by its com-
pleteness.
* * * . *
The first part of the mixed bill is an
operetta of the modern Italian type—“ The
Secret of Suzanne”—-neatly acted and fairly
well sung by Elina Kirmes and Joseph
Royer. The third character of a man ser-
vant is a silent quantity all the time. A
jealous husband suspects his bride of the
one particular sin, because she has brought
an unexplained odor of tobacco smoke .nto
their dovecot. He surmises a man in the
case, and smashes cheap crockery by way
of venting his sense of betrayal. When the
sung and spoken to-do has nearly run its
musical course he discovers that his wife
smokes cigarettes, whereupon they retire
hastily for mutual endearments. The fact
that he didn’t learn Suzanne’s shallow secret
from her lips when he had previously kissed
them can be put down to his profound fool-
ishness. The two principals were vocaliy
weak for the orchestra —directed by C. ,t.
Glaser —on Saturday night, although a num-
ber of the instrumentalists were mostly un-
employed during this performance. The
orchestration is thin, but charmingly sug-
gestive, as a rule, and each performance no
doubt will bring it into closer harmony with
the happenings on the stage.
For six weeks Mary Turner has been
vainly endeavoring to make a lady of her
“crook” friend Aggie, and for the same
period Aggie has been making an awful
exhibition of Police Inspector Burke. Both
ladies are still blackmailing “Within the
Law,” and the old established attraction at
Melbourne Royal is the talk of the town.
In strict accordance with the saddest ex-
pectations, “The Beggar Girl’s Wedding” is
doomed to early disappearance from Mel-
bourne Princess’s. Its horrors are too crude
to be thrilling. The sight of a hero and
heroine growling behind the bars of the’r
respective cages in the mad-doctor’s zoo, like
animals robbed of their feeding time, doesn’t
hold even a Marlow audience spellbound.
Moreover, when the moaning captives are
set free by a comic relief party and the vil-
lains are caged in their stead it seems that
the boss miscreant opens the door and walks
out. In a better built bellowdrama he
would be left to die of starvation after de-
vouring every portion of himself except his
head. “The Cowboy and the Squaw” is the
treat in view for Saturday.
Bispharq, the time-worn baritone who
sings two dozen songs in two standings and
still leaves his hearers hungry for one last
encore number, is giving two more recitals
at Melbourne Auditorium this week. Gen-
eral Desire, maybe, will insist on further
ditties next week. Bispham from America
scores by his ready adaptability to
the subject, of his warble. He sings with
expression in the proper sense of the term,
and is most appreciated by those who are
not further away from the platform than
half the length of the Taits’ new concert
hall. He is un theatrically dramatic, humor-
ous, or pathetic—an undemonstrative char-
acter singer in a dress suit who gets the
true atmosphere, as well as the melody, into
his descriptive narrative. When David
Bispham has finished with the Auditorium
another baritone —Peter Dawson —will be
there for one night. July 9 is the one
night.
D’Aliza’s Trained Roosters missed the
matinee performance at Melbourne Opera
House last Saturday—many roosters object
to matinees—therefore the report of this
paper’s Melbourne poultry expert is delayed
for a week. Apart from the absent birds the
programme had much to recommend it. The
seals bellowed hungrily at their keeper.
O-Hana San was a pretty turn, the Bell-
clair brethren turned their wonderful
muscles to marvellous feats of skill in an
unaffected manner, A. G. Spry returned to
light for antique business purposes, and
various other people transpired as usual,
* * * #
“Fanny’s First Play” will be the Reper-
tory Theatre bill at Melbourne Athenaeum
next Saturday and again on Monday and
Tuesday. Wednesday is always a day of
rest and rehearsal for Gregan McMahon
and the Repertory Co., but on Thursday
they are to play three short pieces, each of
distinguished parentage.
** * *
Another Melbourne art note: —
H. Septimus Power, now hanging his wares at
Melbourne Guildhall, is an Australian artist who is
English in his subjects and methods. He limns with
cold calculation ail that the Bull-land reveres like
its Bible and its beer. Assorted horsefleshes, from
graceful hunters to plain neddies, protrude their
muzzles from his golden frames. Dogs of differing
mildness and every variety of bark wag their tails
on almost every canvas. What humanity is present
is generally chaperoned by something with four legs
and a neigh or a howl. The most ambitious efforts
are the hunting scenes—alert geegees and
mulberry-faced riders, as usual giving you
the impression of the unspeakable, not to say,
the incredible chasing the uneatable. Likeable, also,
is the artist’s “Unloading Barges on the Thames,”
but the bloke who is driving the animals in the fore-
ground is bad enough to be an ineptitude. Of the
smaller subjects—about 150 of them—the most
charming are the landscapes—neat, remembersome
things ticked off by a man who has dipped his
brush in sunshine. Taken altogether as the show of
a painter who seems the self-appointed historian of
Hingland’s minor religions, the exhibition is strik-
ing enough, though it might be improved in the
matter of the prices which Septimus P. puts on his
goods. When he estimates the artistic value of a
14in. x lOin. study of a cottage at £3O, one
glimpses a suspicion that he is flattering himself.
Still, if he can get the money, Hooray! Dozens of
people pay almost as much for a weird, momentary
thing called a woman’s hat.
“THE BEGGAR GIRL'S WEDDING,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS'S.
Jack Cunningham (George Cross) nobly hands
over his cash to the Thames embankment
boarders.
Among Saturday’s list of restless pictures
at Melbourne Olympia was “The Final
Justice.” It proved to be the old, old story of
masculine rivalry in pursuit of skirt, and
a mess of forgery and wrongful imprison-
ment was brought to an emotional finish
with a novel confession by phonograph.
“The Strength of Men” biographed the
icicles of the Klondyke region and ren-
dered full account of the virility of a bloque
when battling through the wilds towards
the donah that he loved. “Shooting • the
Rapids on the Mekong River” was first fav-
orite in the travel section; “The ‘Fired’
Cook” started for the Merriment Stakes but
was disqualified for boring.
*l* *l* •!•
“The Native Born” still prevails at Mel-
bourne King’s, and Bert Bailey continues
to heap indignities on the villain-in-cliief.
Bailey is the joyous wretch who produces
the spook of Kosciusko Joe, and worries
confession from the lips of Blackmore’s
craven minion. Also, he is the party who
“THE NATIVE
BORN,” AT
MELBOURNE
KING’S.
Fred Macdonald as
Willie Staggers.
Ned Duggan as John
Hillgrove, the selecior.
pokes his magical finger into every pie, and
is sleight of hand and slick of tongue at
almost every curtain. Without his illusive
paws and epigrammatic patter the show
would probably fall incontinently dead. It
would be like the Bible without Proverbs
and Revelation.
The undertaker who is burying two or
three busted Melbourne banks —these
corpses take a long time to bury—gave some
idea the other day of the juiciness of a titbit
which hitherto has been sucked up by the
private banks. Twenty years ago the City
of Melbourne, Federal and Mercantile went
broke in the general smash. At that time
they had a quantity of notes in circulation ;
and though the undertakers offered to pay
those notes straight away, £3142 is stiii
uncollected —and probably always will be.
No wonder the issue of non-interest-bearing
notes that get mislaid or drowned or mis-
taken for ordinary dirt and thrown into the
fire was a titbit the private banks parted
with in great sorrow.
The most respectable journals in Britain
are talking Socialism—downright Socialism
—these decadent times. For instance, the
Daily Chronicle has suggested that the
Board of Agriculture should build 10,000
cottages for £l6O apiece, buy land of agri-
cultural value from the blessed lords of the
soil, and find men who would work the land,
whilst renting the cottages, at 3s. a week
each. Under present conditions England’s
agricultural population is thinning fast, and
the State is being frantically exhorted to
step in and stop the leakage by taking up
the position of t’ould squire.
Capital is having a dreadful old-age: it
spends all its time now flying out of coun-
tries. It has of course been flying out of
Australia for years and years. A while ago
it was reported to be flying out of the
United States. Later, annoyed at Lloyd
George, the cable said it was flying out of
Britain. It has been repeatedly reported
that it is flying out of Russia, the last occa-
sion being when the military wealth tax was
proposed. Now, according to the Kol-
nische Zeitung, the local Bruce Smith, it
is flying out of Germany—as usual, “to pro-
tect itself against the threatened taxation.”
After all, that old-time Sydney doctor who
called himself Angel Money, and attended
Parkes in his last illness, was prophetic in
a way. Money certainly seems to have wings
in these troubled times.
An unfortunate —some violent people
might almost call it an unmanly and hog-
like —tendency to kick an honorable oppo-
nent in the hour of his misfortune charac-
terised the Sydney Evening News’s pic-
torial farewell to William Lyne in its issue
of last Tuesday. Lyne is an old man with
a long and notable political record. He
may not be a genius, but he has always done
his best. He is a poor man, for he never
had the knack of making money out of
politics. He is a very sick man, and he
lost his seat by the narrowest majority
because he was unable to get round his
electorate and push his case. The Labor
party didn’t send men to do his work for
him because, being perhaps a foolishly con-
scientious old man in his way, he refused,
on some small point of principle or obsti-
nacy, to join the Labor party, thdugh
he regularly supported it. A character like
old William should command some measure
of respect in his declining years and his
increasing ill-luck. And the Evening
News’s picture of him, as the tattered and
discharged actor, passing out of the stage
door, into Poverty Point, while a man, pre-
sumably Joseph Cook, laughed at his down-
fall, should come under the heading of Dirt.
Some excited individuals might call it worse
things than that.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Mrs. Powis Stuart, formerly Virginia Vivienne, of
the Bland Holt co. and the Geo. Rignold co., and
various other cos., and now directress of the Shak-
speare Theatre in Adelade, devised many of the
female clo’ for the Operatic Society’s recent “Doro-
thy” show. The result was a general dream of
beauty. But the lady didn’t devise, plan, draft,
sketch or otherwise compound, build or architect
Lurcher’s boots, and if Lurcher’s boots didn’t look
as well as Lydia Hawthorne’s dress, the circum-
stance is easily accounted for.
G. B. Ireland, the oldest surviving Australian actor
of note, has been seriously ill of late. The very latest
news of the veteran’s health is more encouraging, so
it is hoped that his tall, thin figure will be seen
again stepping along like a young ’un, on St. Kilda
Esplanade.
The legal application made'by George Willoughby
and other shareholders in George Marlow, Limited,
for a legal declaration of George Marlow’s powers of
interference with the management of the co., whereof
Geo. Willoughby is the nominal “managing director,”
seems to have resulted in a Judge’s decision that
Willoughby’s management is subject to the control of
a majority of the co. Marlow personally holds a
majority of the shares, therefore his interference
is bound to be approved, by vote of the majority of
the co. in general meeting. And that’s all about it.
Incidentally, the Equity suit revealed the fact that
George Marlow’s name is Joseph Marks, and that
George Willoughby figures theatrically under his
baptismal names only. His paternal name is Dowse.
Dear Bulletin, —Says your Adelaide dramatic
critic in his notice of “Man and Superman” (B.
12/6/’l3) : “Julius Knight must have had a private
wire from ‘Harrison 0.,’ for the latter’s par. no
longer has any truth in it. In Adelaide, Knight
does not wear a ‘pretty moustache,’ is not ‘a beauti-
fully tailored young Block beau,’ and is not ‘suave
and composed.’ ” Lest millions of readers who
weekly await my remarks with breathless interest
should, for an instant, doubt even my most lightly-
spoken word, I hasten to explain that on the first
night of “Man and Superman,” in Melbourne, Julius
did wear a pretty moustache, but his partially de-
veloped sense of the fitness of things trod on his toes
before the first week of the show had finished, and
thenceforth he appeared clean shaved. He could
not, however, bring himself to wear a beard, as
directed by Shaw, any more than he could dream
of appearing as other than a sartorial superman.
The statement that in Adelaide Julius was not
beautifully tailored, I must courteously, but' firmly,
refuse to believe. And if Mr.' Knight’s Tanner is no
longer “suave and composed,” I can but congratu-
late myself that my untiring efforts, spread over a
number of years, to educate the theatrical public
and instruct mummers in the rudiments of their busi-
ness, are at length bearing fruit.—Yours emotionally,
Harrison 0.
“Petramos”: Freaks are pushing their way into
vaudeville. “The Man who Grows” is an American
phenomenon now drawing big money on the English
’Alls. The gentleman actually enlarges in view of
the audience. Brunnliilde, a 'German giantesi who
was recently relieved of a considerable sum iff dam-
ages for breaking her contract, was receiving £4O
weekly from the Moss Empire people. Not long ago
one of the biggest London halls exhibited as a turn,
“The Last of the Aztecs” —three human beings with
remarkably small heads. The act was elaborately
mounted, but the remnant of the noble race were
evidently too weak in intellect to do more than look
idiotic.
(Continued on page 30.)
A PUBLIC “HOLIDAY”!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prince of Wales’ Birthday was celebrated in dull
weather.- — The daily paper which “celebrates” every-
thing.
The trams crash by ; I know not why
They crash and bump. They go, or where,
I curse them. I But watch them fly
Have got the hump. With vacant stare.
The skies are grey I know not why
Above the town. My mood is grey.
The “holiday” “Perhaps,” I sigh,
Has got me down. “The ‘holiday’ ?”
The sea-drunks tack Because a Prince
Across the street. Across the seas
I hear ( click-clack ) Was born long since,
Cab-horses’ feet. With knocking knees—
I miss the loud A lad accurst
Familiar sounds. Pipes sadly past,
The shuffling crowd Playing his worst
Has broken bounds. My soul to blast.
Now in the streets Cause and effect
Rain-washen, drear, Are long-range things!
Most men one meets (My thoughts collect
Are stung with beer. On sable wings.
The bolted doors They croak and caw
On idlers frown ; And say me nay.
Banks, shops and stores My mind is raw
Are all closed down. This “holiday”!)
I hear a sad How comes it, pray,
Mouth-organ wheeze ; That ev’ry loon
Goes by a lad Makes holiday
With knocking knees. In dreary June?
And I postpone Let work be done
This dirge-like verse, When skies are grey!
His flesh and bone Out in the sun
To fiercely curse. Make holiday !
And without end The city’s song
The trams roll by; Is stilled. Its joys
Empty they wend Depart along
’Neath this dead sky. With all its noise.
The trams roll by;
The skies are grey.
I would that I
Were dead this day t
N.S.W.
A FESTIVE SOUL.


OUR
Special Crimean Pyjamas
Reduced to 8/6
FOR OUR SALE.
An outstanding value at our Winter Sale is illus-
trated here — very Special Quality Winter weight
Crimean Flannel Pyjamas —an unshrinkable make
that wears splendidly—in the Newest stripe designs
in Blue and White. Blue and Green. Grey and White,
Green and Pink, and Brown and White —Excellently
Cut for comfort —thoroughly well made through-
out. To be had in sizes 34, 36. 38. 40, 42 and 44
inches Chest Measurement. A remarkable Sale
Opportunity.
Usual Price 10 6
SALE PRICE 8 6, Sent Carriage Paid
Sale Catalogue sent Free on Request.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP. Q.P.0., SYDNEY.
- «
£
$
M
V
Ntri
-V-
-*
Y
Kug'eimann’s
Pure Herbal
SKin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.’’
Free Sample sent on Receipt oi
Twopenny Stamp-
Kuseinian:. s Pure Herbal Sira J-u: 55**.-** f!!l
•;uaed a; all Chemists. Drapers *»-
throughout Australasia, at 2 6 rer box e: :r*ee -a-?
tablets. If not obtainable locally. set-- Postal -
or Stamps of anv Stare, to the rtlje or a - 1*
:ng postage), when box will be tostec per rr.era
maiL '
Sole Proprietors:
M E. KUQELnANN & CO..
Wholesale Druggists and lUatiasareß-
-14-16 Queen Street. -MELBCH. R^E: P« Stow*.
S\ U.NEV; and at ADELAIDE and BR^BANb.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE SELFISHNESS OF MAX.
COUNTRY MAN: “ This rain is iust what we
want in the country."
CITY MAN: “Well, d —n it ail! lake it to
the country! I don't want it. "
"F.C.”: In Melbourne recently a man
charged with vagrancy excused himself for
failing to get constant employment by
asserting that on at least two occasions he
bad been sacked by satisfied employers be-
cause the police had informed them of his
conviction for theft several years ago.
Though part of his yarn was subsequently
denied, the unpleasant fact remains that
Chief Commissioner Sainsbury justified such
action —in some cases —on the ground that
it was necessary in order to protect others
from suspicion. "Take, for instance." said
Mr. Sainsbury. ‘‘a place where many men
are employed and larcenies are being com-
mitted. If the police know that among the
employees is a convicted thief, would it not
be their duty to notify the employer of the
fact?" I have my doubts about it. It wouid
first of all be the duty of the constable to
inform him (Sainsbury) of his discovery.
Then the manly course would be for Sains-
bury to give the suspected man a hint to
resign his billet, or get a transfer, or ex-
plain things. If the man quitted, or if rue
larcenies ceased whether the suspected in-
dividual resigned or not. Sainsbury conlu
assume he had got his man and should watch
him in future. If. on the other hand, the
man left and the steals continued, it would
be his duty to discover the actual thief, and
so aid the suspect in standing ppright in-
stead of kicking him down again.
"0.K." writes on his own responsibility :
The cable states that Miss Annie Kenney, a Suffra-
gette organiser, when sentenced to IS months im-
prisonment, clutched the edge of the dock and
shouted: “A Judge ought to be ashamed of himself
to receive £6OOO a year for hounding down tromen.
It is by their special sexual shrieking that the priest-
esses of woman suffrage belittle their cause. All sane
persons understand, in the first place, that a Judge—
whatever be his salary—has noth’ng whatever to_ do
with the “hounding down" of anybody brought before
him for trial, and that in the allotment of sen-
tences he is not more of an instrument of the Law
than an agent for public opinion. Public opinion,
thusfar, has demanded that the law shall be strained,
more or less, in favor of the organised mischief-
workers who work on the suffragette ticket, because
their cause is legitimate; hut that it shall be less
and less strained as their mischievous action becomes
more outrageous. That's why Annie Kenney got an
18-months’ sentence, instead of the six months she
might have received under the same law a year ago.
It was obviously foolish to talk of “hounding down"
by the Judge in thi- matter, and it was absurdly
illogical to tell him that he ought to be ashamed of
passing ungentlemanly sentences upon women, with
the tacit conclusion that women deserve special con-
sideration. Public opinion demands a diminishing
special consideration for suffragettes, and the Judge
acquiesced in the demand when he let organiser
Annie off with 18 months, yet Annie herself is for
ever demanding equality for the sexes in the eyes of
the Law That is, out of court. In court she illogi-
cally rails at his Honor for hounding down women.
Practically she declares that women should not be
subject to the same “persecution" as men for offences
against propputy, fellow citizens and the State. And
Annie is an organiser of suffragette movements, a
mouthpiece of the Cause, a representarive martyr.
All the sweet unreasonableness of her sex —the un-
reasonableness which turns so sour under certain con-
ditions —was expressed in her abuse of the man who
passed the sentence of the man-made law upon her.
The effect of such battling for the Cause of Woman
Suffrage is to cast a doubt upon the justice of the
cause. It is certain that women are entitled to fair
treatment in their homes, fair wages for their work,
fair legal protection against their sexual weakness,
the consequences of sexual indiscretion in the woman
ranging from serious to tragic. They are entitled to
all the advantages which they can acquire for them-
selves by sex-magnetism and sex-unionism, and to
all the compensation for their disadvantages wh ; ch
fhev can get from political man-made laws. As for
social law —well, thev make it themselves, and the
judging of all persons who break social laws rests
with them. If they choose to be horribly cruel to the
woman social offender, whilst smiling sweetly on the
male ditto, they have onlv themselves to blame.
Their womanhood enritles them to fair plav. and
probably the average woman does get as much fair
play as the average man.
* * * *
"Yam's" grim pictures of the bush: —
When the great tragic dramatist of the Common-
wealth arrives, what a wealth of material he’ll find
lving around the lone bush outposts! For some
Australian Ibsen’s benefit I send a couple of sample
chunks, raw. At worst “Bellerive’’ might cook np
a poem from them.
Slab I. is brought back to my mind by a man’s
recent suicide in Melbourne gaol while he was await-
ing the gallows for the murder of his erstwhile girl.
During the winter of 1912. a cruel winter of frost
and drought. I called at the borne of this girl's people.
It is a desolate, dead, mining township of de-
serted huts and crazy jerry buildings falling to
pieces. It stragg’es in a lonely basin shut in by
gloomy, formidable bills, wooded with dull, grey-
green box and stunted eucalypti. Great naked
patches of ghostly grey lichen-covered granite roost
among the trees. There was only a woman at the
place. She was doctoring a rick horse in a sling.
The drought had claimed all their other stock. When
I asked how their stock had fared, the brave old
soul cracked a gr : m joke and said she had that
(pointing to the sling) and a sulky left. Then,
cheerfully. “The sulky can't starve to death, any-
how.” There's drama stuff in it as good as ever
Synge worked on. Thar woman, alone on the selec-
tion. trying to nurse a dying horse back to life: her
husband away working, or looking for work; their
daughter far away, hiding, “in trouble.” Then,
later, when the clouds lift and a little gold begins
to creep into the awful grey: when the girl (girl-
mother as she i~) is preparing to many a decent,
steady young fellow-employee at the jam-factory she
works in—then comes her brutal murder by the
father of her child.
Slab 11. In the same district I called at an iso-
lated settler’s place on Shire business. An aged,
bowed woman answered my knock; and. though her
husband, the owner, was present, she a-ked me to
see her son about the business. Presently the son
came in and with him a dark-skinned, dark-eyed boy
of three or four. I stayed and shared their midday
meal. But throughout rov stay the old man never
spoke and scarcely raised h : s bead, though he seemed
in no way feeble or imbecile. The little toddler was
plainly frightened of the old man. and seemed in-
stinctively to shrink from him. The old dame spoke
in the face of all (how women will keep up appear-
ances to the end!) of the little chap’s sister, who
was away in town. But I knew the child had no
sister. I knew there had been a low-class Assyrian
working on the farm. And with this evil, sneaking
streak of darkness the settler’s daughter had been
driven, by the desolate emptiness of her life, to “re-
lations." The wages were paid in this little, dark-
eyed alien. Then the daughter had disappeared,
leaving the child to her parents. With the old man
it was simply a case of broken heart.
And Australia dabs its eyes as it sniffles
over "East Lynne."
* * * *
It has just been decided by tb° S.A.
Supreme Court that the person who lights a
fire "does so at his peril." and is liable for
all consequences, not being excused by the
fact that he took all reasonable precautions.
In this case he used a c-arefnlly-constructed
outdoor fireplace, with nothing' inflammable
within 10 yards: but a spark blew that dis-
tance. and lighted the grass, and the fir?
spread to another man's land. The Coart
incidentally said that the only valid ex-
cuse nowadays is "act of a stranger, r is
major, or act of God." and remarked (with
unusual cynicism for Adelaide) that the
latter may be taken as “the action of some
elemental force o f Nature of an extra-
ordinary character."
THE HORSE.
SHE: " W hat is your opinion , Mr.
Turfer, of the Suffragette?”
TURFER : “ When does it
run?"
The long limb of coincidence has worked
a useful hand in bringing news of the barque
Xomia, posted missing on December 17.1912.
The Xomia sailed from Newcastle with a
cargo of coal for Chili on July 10. and sank
in mid-ocean when six days out. At least,
so it appears from the only scrap of evi-
dence available —a small, ragged bit of
paper torn from a German log-book, on
which was written. ‘ Monday, 16, 7, 1912
Xomia is sinking fast by hurricane in 42 S.
160 E. Gott save us all and everybody."
This message, enclosed in a bottle, was
picked up recently on the beach between
Mangonui Bluff and Scott's Point (M.L.).
But was the manuscript genuine? Here
the extensive limb abovementioned got in
its good work. The message was given to
German Consul Carl Seegner. of Auck-
land, who had known a Captain Ximme,
formerly of the barque Germania, which
called at Auckland in 1905. The Xomia's
skipper was also named Ximme. Searching
among his papers. Consul Seegner unearthed
a letter written by the Germania's Ximme.
and on comparing the letter with the mes-
sage from the sea he found the writings
identical. Here was evidence enough that
the Germania's Ximme was also the Xomia's
Ximme, and that the message wasn't a fake.
Seeing that Consul Seegner was the oniy
man in Maoriland —perhaps in Australasia
—likely to be able to settle the question,
the arm which piloted that wandering bottle
right to his door had. as before-mentioned, a
useful hand at the end of it.
* * * *
There are evidently advantages in being
Frederick O'Neill, though there may also be
disadvantages. A few weeks ago an ex-
bookmaker of that name, engaged in a Mel-
bourne lawsuit with another of the same
tribe, stepped smartly into court, abandoned
his claim and deposited £5lB in cold cash
on the table. A little later the same or
another Frederick O'Neill appealed against
a judgment ordering him to pay £4OO
damages to Harold Albert Seastream. jockey,
of Melbourne: but when the appeal came
on for hearing O'Neill meandered in. handed
out £4OO in cash, agreed to pay the taxed
costs, and departed casually. O'Neill's legal
indulgences are evidently costing him a
trifle. Still, he always seems to have the
trifle, and to hand it ont cheerfully. Per
contra, the disadvantage of being Frederick
O'Neill was shown on June 14. when a gen-
tleman wearing that monniker —who may
be the same person as the other two for ail
this paper knows to the contrary —was
arrested, with seven other like-minded citi-
zens. in a Collins-street office, for running a
"common gaming house." That is. they
were alleged to be betting through the post
on a m .re or less extensive scale. This
O'Neill didn't have any cash on him at the
time, bat a compatriot named Kelly had the
pleasant sum of £520 abont him. Take it
all round, the flnshest person in Melbourne
jnst now \v< old seem to bo Fred O'Neill,
except when it is his friend Kelly.
In the wildly melodramatic- story of the
Melbourne tea-room girl and the Book
Arcade sales-lady. charged with conspiring
to poison a young married woman under
the crudest theatrical circumstances —the
whole story reads like a page from the
book of George Marlow —there is nothing
more purely melodramatic than the state-
ment of the wife, who was to have been the
victim, she says, of a profusely Poisoned
Cup of Tea :
I have only one woman enemy in the world, and she
will be so until I die. She has caused so much sorrow
in my bou-e that death alone can heal Those
marks on the plaster on the dining-room wall were
made by her. About sis weeks ago she came to the
house, and almost banged the front door in. When
1 went to the front she was standing with her back
to the fence, and, of course, we had a fight. Blows
were struck, and the woman fainted. Then my hus-
band said for bis sake to bring her inside I did,
and when she recovered we continued the fight in the
dining-room. She pulled my hair out. and the silk
blouse she was wearing was tom to pieces, and before
she was able to leave the place I had to patch it
together for her. My husband first met her 12
months ago. He is in a position at the window in
the parcels office, where he is meeting strange people
all day.
THE ARREST.
Nobody should be tried in this world: they get
their trial in the next. — Juror. before Mr. Jest'd
Pring, at the Central Criminal Co[?] (Spinet) .
“New just yes come along and me."
Woman continues to make the pace in
Maori land. On the Clntha t Otago district l
School Committee of seven there is now only
>ne man. Clutha is a "dry" area, and the
sinners allege that the male population i>
too busy in the evenings attending keg
parties to bother about such trifles as school
committees.
THE NEW WOMAN'S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I cannot help thinking that Garden of Eden
business was all a mistake. Eve was certainly the
better man of the two. and should have triumphed.
Why didn’t she?" —From a speech by a Melbourne
Suffragette.
In early days, when Adam dwelt
With Eva in an orchard wide,
At man's coarse feet the woman knelt
In sweet submission, humble-eyed.
She would have sewed his buttons on
Had he a coat to sew upon.
But Eve observed in course of years
That Adam's strength was partly wax;
A diplomatic move of hers
It was to place across his tracks
The fruit that caused the fall of man.
That was the first New Woman's plan.
So Adam lost his fine conceit.
And ventured forth, a simple clown.
But having worked this splendid feat.
Outwitted man and put him down.
The women showed a weaker vein
In that they let him up again I
VICTORIA
SNELL.


O.T. Improves all Drinks just
as Sauces Improve Food.
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the- best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
i
. —awaaassi
:
Crimean Shirts
-—for Warmth during Winter.
In these shirts we have effectively combined all the essentials
for warmth and style. The winter-weight Crimean Flannel is
soft and warm, unshrinkable, and very serviceable. The shirts
are correctly shaped, and have the popular soft collar, and either
gauntlet or band cuffs.
Colors: Grey grounds with neat stripes in Blue, Pink and Green,
and Heliotrope.
PRICE (including Soft Collar) 8/6
Winter Pyjamas of same material 11/6
Postage, 3d. extra.
Please state collar size for Shirts, and chest, waist, and inside
leg measurement for Pyjamas.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
( “ J.R.’s” words of wisdom: Attorney-
General Holman was reported as follows the
other day:—
One of the most interesting acts of investigation
on my part was the studying of the question of
underground or tube railways, which have been con
templated in Sydney. I went to the length of a
conference with Lord Cowdray, who was the con
Thames ° ® onglnal t,,be railway under the
And I will wager he got small change out of
the old man. The aged engineering bird is
preternaturally shy. The chief reason is
that he knows quite well that anything said
by him will be repeated to other engineers,
who will be sure to make the most of any
shp he may be guilty of. Experts in every
Hne of effort have their reputations to look
after. That is why nearly all the world’s
gieat engineering works have been inaugu-
rated by comparatively young men. If you
want a man to take a risk^— to doi- something
m which success will mean fame, and failure
ruin—you must get one with his name to
make. Holman should have tried some of
the hundreds of ambitious young engineers,
who would have been glad to talk to him on
the off-chance of getting a job and an advt.
* * * •
“Carmine’s” news from France:—
F°x ;»nd Lambert do not exhibit this year in the
i aris salons. Australian painters are, however well
represented. Bunny has three pictures—one a
charming portrait; the others “The Sun Bath’’ and
A Summer Silhouette.” Coates shows several works
a v. an ~ ng V. sh , hue - H °P e shows “Under the Vine
Arbor, a lively Bacchanalian subject. Mary Degen
(she is a daughter of the late W. B. Dailey)
has a resplendent fanciful picture, “The Enchanted
Island. Bessie Davidson has “’Fanny and Flo’’ and
“The Mauve Dress.’’ Miss McPherson, Miss Isa Rae
and Miss Alison Rae put good things before Moun-
seer Frog Birley’s “Portrait of a Lady,” in black
and rose, birdlimes the attention. Streeton still goes
for castles and domains. Will Ashton gets there with
marine painting. Quinn has a “Fishmarket” and
Portrait of a Lady.” Carter and Grace Joel are in
the same line; and Marie Tuck, G. Bell, Christina
Baker, Leist, Hermina Arndt, Coutts, Hilda Rix,
Bessie Gibson, Isabella Tuck, Bryant, Miss Fisher,
Miss Kong-Sing, Miss George, Miss Goodsir and
Wheeler help to keep the Australian end up.
“Harrison O.”: At Melbourne the other
day what looks like a genuine Rubens was
bought for £5O by a Westralian connoisseur
from a Brunswick auctioneer, who had
acquired the picture a dozen years pre-
viously for Is. 6d. sterling. Melbourne
Herald “scooped” the story, which was con-
sequently ignored by the Argus and Age.
The painting represents two nudes (sup-
posed to be Pyramus and Thisbe) locked in
amorous embrace. The purchaser was old
A DREAM THAT FAILED.
SHE : “I drearned last night that you bought
me a new hat for a present.”
HE : “Well, that’s the first dream of a hat
you ever had that didn't cost me money.”
Dr. Summers, now of Perth, but known
years ago in the Cabbage Garden as in-
spector of music in the State schools.
Present writer was privileged with a view
of the painting, which may or may not be
a Rubens, but was certainly cheap at fifty
“goblins,” and looks more like the work of
the deceased Dutchman than the alleged
example in the Melbourne Gallery.
AN OBVIOUS INSULT.
DEALER: “Any old rags? Any bottles? Any old iron?”
“Foe” : I saw her the moment I got into
the evening tram. She wasn’t a beauty—not
one of those compelling beauties that domi-
nate a whole compartment and malje every-
body unnaturally good-mannered until they
get out, and allow the natural hoggishness
of those who remain in to reassert itself.
No, she was just plump with the comfort-
able plumpness of 45, and beautifully self-
satisfied. Her soul was utterly at rest be-
cause she had on all her very best clothes,
and the last carat of jewellery, and knew
her feathered hat was straight. She was a
beautiful illustration of perfect poise. Sud-
denly there was a scuffling sound at the
door of the compartment, and in fell a little,
eager, bright-eyed woman with large, gold-
rimmed spectacles. The little woman was
cheaply dressed and knew
it. The other lady,
seated like a queen in the
corner, was dressed re-
gardless of expense and
knew it. The eyes of the
two met, and the warlike
glances they exchanged
crossed like rapiers. You
see the stout lady knew
that she was all right,
and that the little
woman was all wrong.
Then, of course, the little
woman But there’s no
need to trace it all out.
Anyhow, the little woman
sat gingerly on the edge
of the seat next to the
mountain of uproarious
clothes and sniffed audi-
bly. It was hardly sports-
manlike, but I suppose it
was either that or a
breakdown. But the
other one was even worse.
When the collector came
round for the fares, she
passed her threepence
along to her stricken
enemy with a sweet
smile which said quite
plainly: “Poor thing! I
don’t blame you a hit for
being envious. Don’t
worry about me — I'm not
taking the least notice of
you !” And the other bit
her lips, and sat on the
edge of the seat holding
tight to her bag to keep
herself from screaming
aloud. You would think
that a woman, when she
went out in her second-
best, would sort of brace
herself up to meet the disgusting creature
who piles on everything she possesses, and
then rustles out to sow hatred and
bitterness. But the feminine mind
doesn’t work that way. If it did,
there would be no fun in piling on
feathers and furs, and clinking bracelets,
and brushing the world aside with your
muff. Good women’s clothes are mostly
wasted on men. But don’t they make
another woman wince !
* * * *
The McGowen-Holman Government has
carried its point as regards Federal Govern-
ment House, Sydney, and the foolish crowd
which spent good money in the effort to prove
that the place was really British property,
and couldn’t be interfered with by mere Aus-
tralians. is discomfited with Costs. And
when it comes to a question of discomfiture
Costs count for more than an army with
banners. Still, the fact remains that the
McGowen-Holman Government was sent into
office with a mandate to abolish the State
Governor and the State Upper House, and
when it left these two institutions rigidly
alone, and devoted itself to kicking the Gov-
ernor-General of Australia, so far as it was
able, off N.S.W. territory, it was hardly liv-
ing up to the pomp and circumstance of its
job. Incidentally, the stables are to
be turned into a Conservatorium of
Music. Already the State has about 100 per
cent, more music makers than there is a fair
living for. A Conservatorium of Bootmaking
or Ironfounding is much more needed in the
present state of the import business. Aus-
tralia produces heaps and heaps of futile
melodists, who grow up, and have their little
concerts, and pass the little hat round so that
they may go to amaze Bull adjacent to the
Tower of London in England, and depart
taking good capital and g™d citizens out of
the country, and then obliterate into the
Unknown. And, meanwhile, the country has
hardly a Mary Anne to its name, and the
capital that leaves the country to pay for
imported iron-ware and boots is something
shocking.
• * * *
Quite the limit in the way of desperate
argument was the plea of a gent, one in a
case from Bega way (N.S.W.). His client
was a bibulous party against whom a pro-
hibition order had been taken . out on Feb-
ruary 17, 1912. On February 16, 1913, he
turned up at a local pub., demanded beer
and got it. A scrupulously eSact John Hop
swmoped down on Bung, and a mathematic-
ally exact magistrate dealt him out a fine.
On his appeal against this exactitude, his
legal rep. argued that the order taken out
against the bibulous party on February 17,
1912, was for a year— i.e., 365| days. The
fact that, in order to square the calendar,
ingenious man had designed a system of
leap years, did not alter the length of a
year; and it didn’t follow that, because 1912
was one of those leap years, the thirsty soul
was obliged to wait 366 days. This pleading
didn’t rout the Court, though it shifted that
learned body to the extent of £4. The Judge
confirmed the conviction but reduced the
fine from £5 to £l.
“J.G.” concerning the methods of some en-
lightened cockies: —
Re the closing of the Loddon Vale (Vic.) State
school, mentioned in a recent. Bulletin. The
teacher has made a sworn declaration as to the facts
of the case. A year or so back she was sent from
Bendigo to take charge. She was able to secure
board from one of the cockies, and things went on all
right till a Labor speaker happened to drop into
Pyramid Hill, and address a meeting. The local
rag, instead of reporting the meeting, poured ridi-
cule over the speaker and his party. The teacher of
Loddon Vale, which is in the Pyramid district,
thereon took a hand, and sent a letter to the local
paper, explaining and defending the policy of the
Labor lecturer. For a wonder, the one-eyed sheet
published the letter. Then things began to get un-
pleasant for the lady. The cocky with whom she
had been boarding hadn’t room for her any more,
and, nobody else’ had any room; so she erected a
tent in the school ground, and a married sister came
and camped with her. The school committee, which
had not met for months,, though it had been fre-
quently asked, to do something to make the
old school decent, was suddenly galvanised; but,
instead of taking steps to keep the weather and the
vermin out of the building, it drew up an adverse re-
port about the teacher’s teaching capabilities. When,
however, the Department asked the committee to
get down to details, the reply was profound silence.
After that, the teacher put her side of the matter
before the Department, and, when the committee was
again asked if the condition of the school was as
bad as related, and whether nobody would lodge the
teacher, and when the committee couldn’t deny the
impeachment, the Department acceded to the lady’s
request for a shift, and closed the school with a
bang.
It sounds a fair thing to do; but a Depart-
ment with more devil in it might have done
better. It would have fossicked out the
most rampant Laborite it could get hold
of in the service—some young man who
wouldn’t mind living in a tent when he
wasn’t painting the surrounding country
with red Socialism and dropping seeds of
the same pestiferous vegetable into the mind
of Cocky, jun. As it is, Cocky, sen., will pro-
bably rejoice in secret that the blarsted
placb has been closed sp that Cocky, jun.,
may now be able to give constant attention
to the old man’s cow and corn.
BOTH OF
THEM.
MALE VOICE
(through ’phone):
“ You're the one.”
EVELYN: “ You're
the other. Who's
speaking? ”
“Arroc Lynne” : At last I can die happy.
For walking down Elizabetk-street, Mel-
bourne, a little while back I beheld a book-
maker’s bag, with its ex-proprietor’s name
and calling printed on it in large vociferous
letters, banging outside a pawnbroker’s
door. It was a well-worn and experienced-
looking bag, too; which fact demolishes the
suggestion that it might have belonged to a
man whose name was Briggs or Crump
instead of Moses O’Brien Macdonald. The
only reasonable conclusion I can come to is
that its original owner left it at home one
day and went out taking the odds in place
of laying them.
NO SMOKING ALLOWED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The other day a Melbourne milk-carter was fined
ss. for smoking a cigarette while delivering milk.
This case serves to impress upon Victorians the fact
that, according to one of the Health regulations,
they must not smoke, suit or chew in any place
where foodstuff's are made, stored, packed or sold.
Under this provision, customers render themselves
liable to prosecution if they smoke in restaurants.
So put away the cigarette,
And douse at once the mild cigar;
You must not blow a smoky jet
Where jugged hare steams and ducklings fret.
Please, gents, remember where you are!
The oyster that expired last May
Consideration must evoke;
The egg of some old Roman lay,
The mutton that’s too late a day,
Must never be defiled with smoke.
From clay or briar no more comes
The fragrant cloud where quail intense
Sends incense from its toasted crumbs,
Or where the high Limburger hums—
Not even, sirs, in self-defence!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Mr. George Reid said that the past
fear had been a brilliant one for Aus-
tralian trade. He pointed out that
Australia probably was Great Britain's
best customer pet head in the whole
world.
rr ' | © <^
QcKy
|ro»n Anntt'&J
A u% + bainqi/e^".
lift
Sfilli&nce?
1
**
(fe«Vly): - Oow!"
* P'* Adam explained that rarkms reli-
gions sects were acme*} engaged in the
coontry districts in getting their liter a.
tare into the homes of the people.
1 Pn s»t> Assembly]
\\
%
A
<SV°cK i^ej
ce ,
JqKpqK:—- If rajcKj my -fe l ePitjk i^rfhgo.
Some of Mr. Watfs friends said to-
day that they would not be surprised to
hear that the Premier had taken sound-
ings in Berlin as to the possibility of
borrowing on adrantageous terms on
the European continent.
(One lb fkjX.t'V
V/acH" not” well ub I*7
"but"
dumb eloquently
in an incident which occurred in the!
City Court yesterday, a constable bad!
been giving evidence against a woman,
and at the conclusion of his remarks the
Bench asked the defendant if she had
anything to say. “Nothing,’’ she re-
I plied simply. “This constable is speak-
ing the truth.” -Amid the sensation
I which these words produced, a woman
(who was sitting in the body of the
R court fell back in a dead faint.
—News item.
were "told
iT" KtiotXoui""
A LOOK ROUND.
[In conformity with the Act. which, thank Providence, will have a rest after this ween, ALE VINCENT intimates that he looks round at
The Bulletin Office, 369 Collins-street. Melbourne.]


Get Rid of
Bronchitis
BY USING
asm
ANGIER
mulsion
Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
The combined healing and strengthening properties of this
remedy make it unequalled in bronchitis and all catarrhal
affections of throat and lungs. For upwards of twenty years
Angier’s Emulsion has been prescribed by the medical
profession and used in the hospitals It is the standard
approved remedy for colds, coughs, bronchitis, and all throat
and chest affections.
Send for free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CHEMICAL 7 Barrack St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Don’t run away with the idea
yA
m
that “SPARKLETS” are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from January 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT.
C. Syphons, 6 6.
B. Syphons, 4 -
B. Bulbs, 16 dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2 3 dozen.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The Beltana Pastoral Co., of S.A.’s far-
north, is starting an export trade in donkeys. It
imported them long ago for mule breeding, but the
ordinary ass has multiplied mightily in the Flinders
Ranges, and is found to have a commercial value.
When the firm of Smith and Timms were laying
down the Adelaide trams, Teasdale Smith was struck
with the possibilities of the animals, and, now he
is making railways in Sumatra, he has sent for 50
of them as a start, the idea being that they will
stand draught work in the tropics much better than
horses do. Westralia has bought a lot of the ass
already.
The reminiscences of No. 745 :
kt ?™ terri™ one time the dread of
iN.h.U. crnmeals, because of its awful “silent” sys-
tem, is now a rabbit-freezery. A gaol was built at
Bernina as far back as Governor Bourke’s time
(about ISoO). Assizes were held in the town for the
wnole of the southern districts. Within the four walls
of the gaol Dynch was hanged for 11 murders. The old
place was empty lor a time; then it was used for
mvahd, prisoners. At a later x>criod it was the
silent gaol, where oiremlers of three years and
upwards did nine months’ “separate” treatment.
au °« e tm |C Mr. Maybury, father of the present
sheriff, was gaoler. He was a good and worthy man,
but had not been trained in gaol work. One day
he ordered a prisoner to take a calf and tether it
on a green patch outside the walls. The man
tethered the calf, but let himself loose, and poor
Maybury lost his billet. Gaoler Small came later.
He was a strong, vigilant man, but was “had” once.
He had a prisoner as groom, his horse being stabled
m the gaol. The groom made a rope of straw,
fastening to one end a shoe removed from the horse,
he slung it up to some iron bars on the watch
tower, clambered up, and got away. Mr. Hassall.
who was chaplain at Berrima, met him afterwards
m Queensland ; but as he had a wife and family, and
was doing well, the old parson did not think it any
business of his to give the man away. Years later,
someone did what Hassall wouldn’t do, and the poor
beggar was sent back to Berrima to finish his time.
* * * *
“Montalex”: What those Northern Terri-
tory blacks told “Vigilans” (B. 29/5/’l3) about
the hornbill was quite correct. I hadn’t known that
this curious bird existed in Australia, and it is
almost certainly, as “V.” suggests, an immi-
grant from the Malay Archipelago, wherein
I have closely studied its habits. The “gaol
ing” of the female during incubation is with
her own consent, and is intended to protect her from
tree-climbing thieves. The opening in the mud wall
is only large enough to let the lady thrust out her
beak to receive the tucker which hubby works hard
all day to provide. I watched one on the job once
till I got tired of counting his visits, which re-
curred approximately about every quarter-hour. The
young—one, never more—is a most extraordinary-
looking creature; it’s like a bag of suet, with a
head and legs fastened on. The hornbill is a bit of
a seismologist, for when you see him violently ex-
cited, apparently about nothing, you may confidently
expect an earthquake shock.
“Tiaki” : In the Maoriland kauri bush the
logs are often sent down long timber shoots into the
lower creeks. Sometimes a cutting has to be made
through rising ground to give the necessary fall.
“Cockney Bill” was taking a short dive through the
cutting, the sides of which were like walls, when he
heard the ominous sound of a log just started on its
downward career. He knew in an instant that
Death was roaring after him, and commenced
running down the shute screaming piteously “I’m
blanked, I’m blanked. Oh, I’m blanky-well
blanked.” By a miracle Harry Dunjon was on the
lowest part of the cutting, and, lying on his
stomach, his massive paw caught the flying Cockney
by the collar of his dungaree jumper and swung
him clear of the smoking log as it screamed under-
neath a wooden meteor. “O Gawd,” gasped
little Whitechapel, and commenced panting his
thanks. “Aw, rabbits,” said Harry; and then, to
relieve his embarrassment, he suddenly roared: “You
flamin’ cow ; don’t you git runnin’ down that euttin’
again yelling out that your blanked or I’ll (shock-
ing) well blank y’ myself. You bushwhack in yer
own (paralysing) euttin’.”
A LARGE ORDER.
MENDICANT (who knows his marks): “Kind
sir, could yer spare a poor feller the
price of a small airyplane, a brand new
motor-car, a piano, six barrels of beer, a
small toothed comb and a couple of toon
picks?”
This is how the cook put it: “One day I
goes into me dinin’-room, and blow me if I don’t see
the slushy ’andin’ round me tucker, and ’im with
his blooming pipe in ’is mouth, smokin’. I just
calls out, ‘Slush-o.’ He sez, ‘What-o.’ I sez, ‘This
is no place for smoke-o,’ and then goes back to the
galley. Bymbye ’e comes out in a tearin’ rage and
sings out, ‘Look here, cook-o, you can b lanky well
get another slush-o.’ I simply says, ‘Righto,’ and
’ands ’im ’is cheque.”
THE SCARCE VICTUAL.
WAITRESS : “Sossidge one!"
BUSH BILL (not going to be done): “One "One ain't no good ter we! I want two , or
I go somewhere else."
“N. or M.”: “K.O.’s” remarks (B.
24/4/’l3) anent the hvdatid-infested perch of the
Chillagoe Co.’s big storage dam (Q.), remind me
that the voracious ’coota which is hawked in Mel-
bourne at “6d. a yard” (after having thrown himself
away on a bit of rag or even a bare hook disguised
in foam), has troubles of his own. The flesh of
almost every specimen I have examined has been
teeming with small, thread-like worms, which, how-
ever, had no apparent effect on the health of the
fish. Fish are the dirtiest of creatures, says the
Irish philosopher in “The Crock of Gold.” It comes
of being all the time in the water, he says ; and you
can see for yourself, he says, that they expire with
joy almost immediately they are rescued from it.
‘‘Cooladee”: Agree with “McNorth” (B.
l/5/’l3) that a horse can do a pretty good think on
his own account when he likes. Know one of him
on Caltowie station, up north of S.A. One day I
found him with a splinter of wood about 6in. long
sticking in his fetlock. Took it out, and doctored
up the wound, but he still remained pretty lame on
it. Hot water, antiseptic, and nothing to do were
the remedies we used, and we kept the treatment up
for a week. He still refused to walk straight, and
we thought something must have been left in his
leg, until I saw him, one day when he
thought nobody was looking, doing a lap
around the horse paddock in evtjn time.
Reckoned he’d got better rather suddenly,
and went to have a look at hint. Soon
as he saw me he started limping at the
rate of one mile in 24 hours, ot there-
abouts, in my direction, with a look of
intense suffering on his countenance.
Seemed strange after his galloping per-
formance, but I bathed the wound again
on the off-chance that there was still
something wrong with it. Saw him at
the same game next day, galloping around
the yard one minute and then, as soon as
he saw me, limping again. Had me in
a fog, likewise a whirl, for a while, but at last t
got the idea that he was a bluff. So I called his
bluff with a flush of hard graft. He threw in his
hand or hoof or whatever it was.
“K.K.” : Hear me speak my brief essay or
paraphrase about the bugong, which is a fowl of
Gippsland and thereabouts. I came to know him
the other night when we had a shower of rain after
a dry spell. It was just enough to moisten the earth,
but it gave birth to the bugong in billions. His
front door, a dab of mud rounded smooth inside as
the top of a thimble, was wide open and thrown
from its hinges. His dressing-gown, tailor-made to
fit his late grubship, was flung discarded beside it.
There were countless numbers of these doors, and all
opened the same night, as though by some secret
underground signal. The length of the discarded
shell measured from three to four inches, and from
half- to threequarters of an inch in diameter. But
the winged life is brief. In the early morning the
great grey-winged moths were hovering drunkenly
about and sidling solemnly along the fence rails.
Then the birds awoke and realised that the fatted
moth was in their midst. They cried aloud with a
great voice, and said, “Let us bog in!” Ensued a
gluttonous orgy, which continued all day, crows and
magpies particularly showing an unlimited capacity
for grub. Even the slow domestic fowl indelicately
gobbled the great squashy bodies. I didn’t see any
bugongs next day. To me it seems a waste of wings
to come out of the earth once in 12 months just to
provide a temporary gorge to the greedy crow and
his carnivorous cousins. I suppose all life is a waste
of something.
“Werrimee” : Boy-soldiering is not a new
thing in parts of the bush. It was a common exer-
cise at Phegan’s Academy—the private school where
I learnt to make pot-hooks and hangers. We had
military drill every Friday. Sometimes we had it
twice a week—it depended on the state of Phegan’s
wood-pile. The man oeuvres were executed in this
way:—
“Fall in!”
We ranged up on the ground, in front of the barn.
“Attention !”
We stood rigid, hands at sides, while he inspected
us.
“Count!”
“One—two —three,” and so on from end to end.
“Odd numbers step back!”
“Form fours!”
“Right turn!”
“Mar-rch !”
We marched straight ahead for two miles, out into
the bush, being halted at last where there was
plenty of dry wood strewn about. General Phegan
would inspect us again, and perhaps deliver a short
address on military tactics. Then: —
“Shoulder arrums !”
Each cadet would pick up a lump of wood. Any boy
picking up a small stick when a big one was handy
was severely reprimanded for shirking his duty:—
“Right about —March!”
We marched back, all heavily armed with firewood.
We halted at the back of the kitchen.
“Shtack arrums!”
We stacked them neatly, were commended for our
efficiency, and dismissed. •
A CLUE.
Z1113 (time, 11-45 p.m.): “Gone in or out, I
wonde r? ”
THE SCARLET CRUCIFIX.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Scarlet Girl was good to see, and sweet to have
and hold ;
The Scarlet Girl whose teeth were pearl, whose
tresses gleamed like gold.
And she was made for loving though a Scarlet
Siren she,
Who smiled her smiles and worked her guiles in
Piker’s pubbery.
The Scarlet Girl was hard as nails. She knew no
sacred code
Save this: To win the fee of sin (and what a debt
was owed!).
If she who sinned was sinned against—well, wc
have borne the blame—
Enough for her to have to bear the scarlet cross
of shame.
The Scarlet Girl denied her God, and all the gods
that are
(She used to say that, night and day, her hell was
Piker’s bar,
And Piker, her Satanic host, with brew of burning
coals,
Poured scorpion stings and sufferings on living dead
men’s souls).
Though made for love, she sneered at Love, and all
that loving means
(We never guessed, who knew her best, Delilah's
might-have-beens ;
But this we knew—and well we knew: That in her
heart of stone
Was aching grief beyond belief—the grief that
grieves alone).
And this we knew: None chose to ask the cause of
all her care ;
Enough to guess each hot caress was fashioned by
despair :
Enough to fathom her blue eyes, and in their danc-
ing deeps
See shade and sun contained as one —the lovelorn
laugh that weeps.
Twas Droving Jim, of Sink-or-Swim, who drank
until he fell,
And raved and swore across the floor of Piker’s
midnight hell.
An awful stare in red-rimmed eyes, a leer upon his
lips,
And all the while, with smirk and smile, the harlot
flung her quips.
’Twas Droving Jim, of Sink-or-Swim, who lay upon
the floor
With lips of ice that would entice her scarlet kiss
no more.
We each one felt the Last Dread Fear, and even
Piker grinned
The grin of awe as one who saw the sum of all he’d
sinned.
Ah, God forgiye each one of us who in our senseless
way
Dare judge the sins of her who wins whatever price
we pay.
For there across the bar-room floor the Scarlet
Woman fell
Upon her knees, and strove to seize that sinful soul
from HelL
The drunkest sinner sobered up ; the truthless
tongue was stilled,
And came a surge—the holv urge of duty unful-
filled.
A sacred silence sanctified that phantod-haunted
den;
We knelt with her, the harlot there, and echoed
her “Amen.”
If she was still the Scarlet Girl her scarlet stain
had gone ;
’Twas Innocence, with no pretence, we each one
gazed upon.
And if Jim’s soul went forth that night to Judg-
ment unafraid.
It was because, to God’s applause, a wanton woman
prayed I
The Scarlet Girl was gone next day. But when we
buried Jim
We thought of her whose breast was myrrh, and
guessed ’twas right with HIM.
And each one sees that picture still, though Fate
our fortunes mix:
A dead man’s stare.... Delilah’s pray’r. . . .a harlot’s
crucifix.
NEVER NEVER LAND
R. J. CASSIDY.


Tfl RRfl NTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
T
ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD.
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 6534, 3100.
A
Noah’s messenger was a dove. In Solomon's time,
pigeons were trained to carry messages. Brutus
used them also at the siege of Modena. Fighting
against the Crusaders, the Turks despatched them.
In mediaeval wars France sent pigeon messages photo-
graphically reduced and read by a magnifying-glass.
But to-day winged words supplant winged messen-
gers, and telephone wires wing words far more
rapidly than ever did doves or pigeons. Phillips,
Ormonde & Co., patents, 17 Queen-st., Melbourne.*
TO REMEDY THINNESS AND
IMPROVE THE FIGURE.
Ladies who are thin, scraggy and angular,
and lacking in that full, well-rounded
development which adds so much to any
woman’s charm, may accomplish wonders in
the way of putting on flesh, filling up hollow
cheeks, necks and shoulders and developing
the figure generally by giving a little atten-
tion to the nervous system. When the
nerves are weak the stomach and the other
vital organs are the first to suffer, -the
food eaten is not converted into flesh, and
you become thin, scraggy, anaemic, run down
and despondent. The seat of the trouble 1S
the nerves, which direct and control the
work of the stomach and liver. They niu>
be strengthened by a proper nerve food, an
probably the best nerve tonic and he*
builder known is the old-fashioned formui
so frequently prescribed by physicians, co
posed of ioz. Tincture of Cardamoms Lo
pound. 8.P., 3oz. Elixir Simplex, Rjv'-'*'
2oz. Salrado Compound and water suflicie
to make 8 ounces. Take one to two tan
spoonfuls before meals and note how m
better you will feel after the first • •
Weigh yourself when you start and a^ al “
the end of the first week. You should n
gained 21b. at the very least.*
“Eddyson”: Arthur Sumner remembers
the date exactly. It was just a week after the big
robbery. The big robbery was only relatively big in
being the most serious affliction of the kind that had
befallen the respectable firm of Dunkley, Sumner and
Sumner in the course of its long and prosperous
career. Our Mr. Sumner —“Mr. Arthur” —was a
very junior partner at the age of 44, and still on the
roads. He was staying at Mahoney’s Melbourne
Hotel, Cattlepup. Arthur was a man of an affection-
ate disposition, a fact well known to the maids and
barmaids at the Melbourne Hotel, Cattlepup. In
fact, it is a generally accepted belief at all country
hotels that all commercial travellers are everywhere
and at all times distinctly affectionate. But during
this trip Mr. Arthur Sumner was much less pertina-
cious than usual in urging his intense regard for
Mahoney’s maids and barmaids, as a direct result of
the presence in the house of Little’s little widow.
Little’s little widow occupied balcony room No. 7.
She was short, slim, very fair and decidedly prepos-
sessing in her complete swag of first-rate mourning.
Little’s little widow was not a local institution. She
had come to Cattlepup for rest and change, rural
calm, mountain scenery, and great spaces in which
to meditate on her recent awful loss. Three times
in three days Mrs. Little had broken down at dinner,
when expatiating on the almost inconceivable good-
ness of the late Ephraim L ttle, and had been helped
to her room, weeping copiously into a large servi-
ette. Our Mr. Sumner was 12 or 14 minutes in
arriving at the conclusion that he had received a
call to console Little’s little widow. Results seemed
to justify him in that belief. His attention cer-
tainly had a very- vivifying effect on the poor dear.
Arthur spent four unnecessary days at Cattlepup,
and three days later returned to Cattlepup for his
vacation—taken in advance. Cattlepup was a well
enough place in which a bereaved female might in-
dulge a great woe, but had none of those allurements
that appeal most directly to healthy drummers seek-
ing diversion. When our Mr. Sumner left Cattlepup,
Little’s little widow owed him £lOO, advanced by
him to her pending settlements in connection with
the estate of the late Mr. Little. Arthur Sumner
saw no more of poor little Mrs. Little. Subsequent
inquiries brought to light the fact that there never
had been a Mr. Ephraim Little, estate agent, in the
suburb mentioned by his melancholy relict. Arthur
got quite into the habit of kicking himself when he
was alone and otherwise disengaged during the sad
days following the complete disappearance of Mrs.
Little. Then he learned, with extraordinary in-
terest, how the detectives engaged on the big rob-
bery from the safes of Dunkley, Sumner and Sum-
ner had practically abandoned the case as hopeless.
They had followed one clue with superhuman assidu-
ity, satisfied that the thief was a promising young
rascal of engaging appearance and limitless audacity
who for two years past had been a thorn in both
sides of the Force. The detectives informed Dunk-
ley, Sumner and Sumner that the suspected thief had
been traced to a country hotel, where he had put in
a few weeks, disguised as a fascinating little widow.
Our Mr. Sumner’s broken-hearted explanation of his
dealings and doings with little Mrs. Little revealed
only a kind of moral turpitude that Dunkley, Sum-
ner and Sumner could afford to let go after severest
censure from the elders. What Mrs. Arthur Sumner
would say if she only knew is still a matter to
which Mr. Arthur Sumner gives some serious consid-
eration.
IN TOPHET.
REPORTUS : “ What's new?”
TIMEUS: “ We have put the record-breakers on
to entertain the theatrical deadheads till the
next eternity."
“Ginger”: Was introduced to Willie Ah
Pong, crow trapper, Narrandera (N.S.W.), the other
day. Bill had a crate full of the raucous-voiced
poultry, which he was consigning to Jimmy Ah
Quang, Lilly Buck-street. I learned that a high-
priced Chow medicine, made from the gall of the
crow, gives him a good market value. The residue
of the bird, Willie blandly admitted, is converted
into long soup at the chop suey joints of Melb.
There are more Crow-eaters in Australia than
reside along the shores of The Bight. It
takes a wary sport to bag a crow with a rifle, and
it must be a strenuous game trapping him. Yet the
Chow had four dozen in the coop.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
CITY FRIEND (whose advice has been sought): "But you ought to engage a criminal
lawyer for a case like this.”
WAYBACK : “My oath, no! I'L have an honest one or none at all."
“Bulloak”: Talking about the gay life, I
reckon I bumped up against the dizzy limit the other
day. I was staying at a cocky’s place north of
Adelaide, and while conversing with one of the
farmer’s sons, I sympathised with him over his lack
of diversions. “No concerts, no social life, no no-
thing,” I said commiseratinglv. “Garn,” said the
young backbone of the country; “watcher torkin’
about, anyhow? No amusements, no entertainments?
Why, I bin to two sales at Crystal Brook this year
already.” I fled. I thought I might get caught in
the social vortex, too.
“Baldy”: Can anybody account for the
fact that horses bred on the Kimberley stations don’t
put up the same bucking performances
as those bred in the East? Nor do the
South-East brumbies buck at all, and
rarely kick in the true lash of the words.
For proof of these ask Bill
Patterson, the police breaker, or Alf
Neave, the Nor’-West buyer. Don’t know
what “Hee Kee” (B. 22/5/T3) was
thinking of when he 6aid he could find in
Perth 500 first-class horsemen, or, at least,
500 as good horsemen as could be found
in Fogland cities. Take the members of the
Perth Hunt Club. If they meet a fence
they whip off and cast afresh; yet they
will go like fury at a fallen “black boy.”
Take the State breaking depot at Guild-
ford. It is the greatest disgrace ever
perpetrated against horse-flesh. Even
worse was the horsemanship earlier at
Karrakatta. Here colts were lunged
hours at a time in sand, with half a bag
of sand on their backs, before a binghi
was put up, prior to the “breaker”
mounting. I’ll bet a week’s wages (with
“keep” thrown in) that not a solitary
knowledgeable person in Perth, outside
the military authorities, will say there
was a horseman or even a good rider em-
ployed at either Karrakatta or Guildford.
The West is about the worst off of all
the States for horsemen, for the simple
reason that it is the worst off for horses.
* * * *
“Coola”: “Syn” (B. 29/5/’l3) can class
himself amongst the “also rans” in his explanation
of the sweet (and otherwise) odor observed by
“Gouger” (B. 24/4/’l3) in N.Q. forests. This scent
is caused by fungi which grow on pine trees. On
reaching a certain stage the fungus swells with its
own importance, suddenly bursts, and showers a
fine powder over the surrounding landscape. Where
the fungus overdoes the thing there are no points
about the perfume, but in moderation the result is
pleasantly suggestive of musk. In other words,
everything is right, provided the smell company is
not over-capitalised. This particular genus may, as
alleged, be a sister or aunt or cousin of the Cyttaria
Darwinii, which leases its life from the South
American beech. My name is Mud so far as vege-
table genealogy is concerned, wherefore I won’t
argue about that.
The Federal Rolls.
A great deal is being said about the alleged
rottenness and lopsidedness of the Federal
electoral rolls, and the fact that they are
somewhat rotten and considerably lop-sided
is too conspicuous to be ignored. But this
trouble doesn’t apply only to the present
election. The Federal election of 1910 was
conducted under the auspices of the Deakin-
Cook Administration, and the discrepancies
in the rolls upon which the House of Repre-
sentatives w r as elected were, to say the
least, remarkable. Look at these figures:-
The Two Constituencies in each State with ti*s
Largest Number of Electors.
Fawkner (Victoria) .. .. .. .. 41,387
Bourke (Victoria) .. .. .. . . 41,058
Swan (Westralia) .. .. .. .. 39,377
North Sydney (N:S.W.) .. .. .. 38,501
Herbert (Queensland) . . .. .. .. 37,686
Parkes (N.S.AV.) 37,498
Darling Downs (Queensland) .. .. 33,506
Boothby (S.A.) .. .. .. .. 31,308
Hindmarsh (S.A.) .. .. .. .. 31,137
Perth (Westralia) .. .. .. .. 27,173
Bass (Tasmania) . . .. . . . . 20,905
Darwin (Tasmania) . . .. .. . . 20,145
And, on the other side of the case:—
The Two Constituencies in each State with the
Smallest Number of Electors.
Brisbane (Queensland) .. .. .. 29,379
Adelaide (S.A.) . . . . . . .. 28,901
Ballarat (Victoria) .. .. .. .. 26,952
Laancoorie (Victoria) . . . . . . 26,149
Angas (S.A.) . . .. .. . . .. 25,929
Eden-Monaro (N.S.W.) 23,033
Kennedy (Queensland) . . . . . . 22,882
Fremantle (Westralia) . - . - - - 21,961
Kalgoorlie (Westralia) .. .. .. 21,647
Barrier (N.S.W.) 21,120
Denison (Tasmania) .. .. .. -- 19,670
Wilmot (Tasmania) . . . . . . . . 17,822
The discrepancies are remarkable enough to
call for a pint, or even a quart, of attention.
Victoria, as usual, had the worst of the deal,
but then Victoria never has any luck in this
sort of business. It always owns the big-
gest among the largest constituencies of
Australia, and about the biggest among the
smallest constituencies. It possesses the
tallest giant and the about the tallest dwarf.
Somehow, Beelzebub appears to have got
Murray’s State down and sat on its ear.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
“Orient” : It is cabled all the way round
to Australia from England that Japan has
just placed contracts, in Japanese yards, for
three Dreadnoughts. Its first two Dread-
noughts, the Suttsu and Kawachi, were fin-
ished in 1912. Five others are in hand, so
the Japs mean to have 10 Dreadnoughts.
Bear in mind that they have numerous other
fine battleships, and are buying four for-
midable battle cruisers of the Australia
type—the Kongo, Hiye, Haruna and
Kirishima. England kindly builds one of
them. Can’t we oblige too? Cockatoo
Island could build at least a little ship for
Japan. Let’s make application—why not
we as well as England? There’s money in
it. and. of course, Japan is our ally as Eng-
land is our protector.
“Itan” : The more one probes the prickly-
pear curse the more stupendous one finds
the evil thing. It was calculated not long
ago that there were 15.000,000 acres given
over to it in N.S.W. and Queensland, but
that did not allow for the tracts partly
destroyed and partially infested. A lands
officer in Bananaland puts the country in-
vaded to various degrees at 38,000.000 "acres
in the two States, not to say anything about
the account in Westralia. What country in
the world can spare such a slice for an
anathema of this kind? Yet officials treat
the scourge complacently; and the politicians
of the past as w T ell as the present are not
one whit less culpable. The magnitude of
the foe never seems to have impressed them.
Party struggles for office absorb their
thoughts: WADE-ites, and Coou-ites an ,i
Den ham-1 tes, and McGowEN-ites. all a’ppear
to have accepted the pear with the resigns
tion of fanatical Asiatics. If a millionaire
or a billionaire came to Australia and
launched a proposal at some of the Gove™
ments to acquire 38,000,000 acres of land
for a legitimate enterprise, offering to serHo
38.001) people, there would be a riot at the
Trades Hall in every State; a storm would
ras-e around the Parliament House where
the subject was being debated ; the Liberals
joint and several, would gibber in their
Democratic indignation; the Torv press
would weep at the colossal character of the
grab ; and various chapters would be added
to the Book of Indignation. It is extremely
doubtful if the Trillionaire would escape
with his bacon. But the pear, with its three
feet spread out across the Continent threat-
ening to drive the population into the sea
is nursed by a well-nigh universal apathy. ’
The howl of “Sturdy Liberal” :
Without a doubt there is no compulsion, or any-
thing of that sort, in the ranks of Liberalism The
Caucus system is unknown there. Everyone is free
Each may speak the thing he wills, and do the thine
he dashed well pleases. That is one of the chief
reasons why I remain within the fold, and view with
contempt the hidebound pledge system of the be-
sotted Laborites. Take, as a case in point, the posi
tion in N. S. Wales. In the Rvde electorate an
aspiring Liberal named James Young exists or lives
or hangs out. He objects to give a pledge to the
Liberal Cauc —I mean Executive—that he will not
stand for the Ryde seat in the extremelv likely
event of the party bosses —that is to say, organisers
—choosing another candidate. How does Liberalism
take this assertion of the individual’s inalienable
right to freedom of action? With the utmost enthu-
siasm, of course. True the Sydney Telegraph has
called Young a “Mugwump” and a “coffee-colored
darky” and a few other things, in the course of a
couple of leading articles designed to show that his
action in stressing the liberty of the subject business
is utterly pernicious and indefensible. And it is
furthermore undeniable that C. G. Wade regards
what one might term the excessive Liberalism of his
Young friend with a lack-lustre eye. In fact, he has
publicly counselled Young to stick to work and leave
politics alone. But the principle of freedom of
action, which is at the root of all true Liberalism,
remains unaffected by these trifles. Supposing Mr!
Young drops out, or stays in and gets soundly licked",
it will be clear that party discipline (no, not the
iron-bound Caucus system) has triumphed. Sup-
posing he perseveres, and in the face of violent and
repeated assaults by both the daily papers and all
the Liberal bosses, manages to gain the seat, one can
get a line by the career of, say, Colonel Onslow as
to what will happen to him. He will, in returning
thanks for his election, inform his supporters that a
great victory has been won for true freedom. Never
again, he will remark, shall we have the odious
spectacle of candidates being chosen by cliques and
Caucuses in Pitt-street cellars. And in a month or
so we shall find him in the cellar himself, reconciled
to the Liberal bosses (I mean leaders), helping earn-
estly to administer the secret oaths and pledges and
things to others, and writing to the daily papers to
point out that his is the only party which is free
from the foul miasma of the Caucus system. “Great
is snuffle, and it shall prevail,” as the sage wrote
quite a long time ago.
•
From the West The Bulletin gets a fine
curse aimed at State-owned railways. It
seems that an 80-mile line has just been
built from York to Nunagin. Hitherto
Nunagin has had a mail from Doodlakine
once a week, but it reckoned that, when
the rail came, it would get its letters three
times a week, anyhow—it gets three trains
a week. But when Nunagin mentioned the
matter to the Commonwealth, the latter
said it was sorry but it could not afford to
pay the State railways the £7 10s. per mile
per annum demanded for carrying a hand-
ful of letters: wherefore Nunagin curses
railways owned by the public. When it has
had time to think over the business calmly
Nunagin will withdraw its curses against
State-ownership and whoop instead for uni-
fication and the transfer of the railways to
the Commonwealth. Some of these days,
unless that reform happens, there will be
need to hurry a few tens of thousands of
troops to some point or other, and a can-
tankerous or greedy State with brown and
yellow sympathies will want something
outrageous for doing the job. Then there
will be a smash, and it won’t be a good
time to have a smash. It is much better to
take the hint when it’s given over such a
business as this of carrying the mails.
“ J. 0.8.”: In a Sydney court a few days
ago Justice Sly sent out a jury of four to
assess the damages to be awarded in a
slander action. Several hundreds were
claimed, but in a little while the jury
ambled back to ascertain from his Honor
what sum would carry Costs. His Honor in-
timated that Costs was an animal the jury
had nothing to do with, but hinted that £3O
would be likely to sool the beast at the other
fellow. The jury accordingly brought
in a verdict for £3O. But then something
went wrong with the works. The Judge
maintained he said “over £30”; the jury
declared that it understood a bare £3O was
mentioned. Thereupon the Judge allowed
the four to retire again, and they promptly
returned with a verdict for £3O Is. Now,
why should not a jury be permitted to make
Costs an addition to their verdict? "Why
should they not be able to say £5 or £lO
“and Costs.” Anyone who has ever served
on a jury in cases where small damages are
allotted knows that half the jury’s time is
taken up wondering how Costs will jump and
which of the parties will be the worse bitten.


This here is a segestion ot
mine to avoid a nusance to
the neighborhood. The doors
and winders being carefully
hermetcally seeled, the les-
sons to pupils can only
eskape through a inverted
gramophone - funnel - shaped
roof and carried by a tall
chimley to the fixed "Stars —
if necsary.
It is roomered that Mr. Holman intends to turn
Old Govt. House, near by, into a Sanatorum tor
neurasthenic polticians.
It is bleeved that this here new move will open
up feelds of oppertoonity tv lots of peeple who’s
skope of endever is hitherto limited—or words to
. that effeck. -
Here you see Mister Karmikel evictin’
the remaining live stock, from the Govt.
House Stables.
Professor of Orchestra Course: “You are a German per-
fesser of music, I believe, and have had some expeeri- /
ence?”
(fftr w )
To make room for the musical fellers, who are here
seen gettin' in early.
Mr. Karmikel (brisk like): “So you want an engagement in our
New Conservatorium? Are you Vocal or Instrumentle?”
Applecant: “Neither, boss, I thort mebbe you’d want them there
stables cleaned out once in a while. That there’s the .iob 1 ’ply
for.”
Applecant: “Well—er—not purcisely a German*
but 1 HAVE had expeerence. I’ve been playin’
in a German street band for the last ten / /
years, I have.” //
A young Egyptian lady of unblemished
reputation has been secoored to give les-
sons upon the golden harp.
pr ?s: , v™^.be“.t«y
with tunin’ fork.)
Dad '(To kid prac-
„ v Irr * ,sin ’ o*» kersene
fin): *1 say, if you don’t stop that
»ow, by gum, I’D— I’ll send you to
toe ConservatoriumJ”
(Noise ceases because boy has a flt-1
t hev caught the noise
fever myself, and practis
a wind insterment. I
And it doesn’t interfeare
with the pursoot of' m v
nerfession.
4 sa >s old Hop,
it DOES interfere with
™ ine ’ y«V’ and is,
on the whole, reether
nasty about it—in fact it
was him that drawed this
last picter.
Twig the Masterly Touch.
THE NEW CONSERVATORIUM OF MUSIC.
This palatial institution is to arise out of the ruins of Federal Government House, Sydney.


AN EPILEPTIC FIT.
A famous London physician, who for years
made a study of this disease, has, after a number of
experiments, found a prescription which affords re-
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has been
put on the market by Mr. I. W. 'Jicholl, Pharmaceu-
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name of
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimonials
received speak well for its efficiency as a remedy
against this appalling disease. Your chemist can
easily get it for you.*
GAE LI C
WHISKY
(Tho Old Smuggler Bottla;
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get r'ne genuine with the
signature. Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
REXONA.
The Rapid Healer is an Ointment which heals with
remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-fashioned oint-
ments, which are very slow in their action, Rexona
speedily effects its relief after a very few applica-
tions. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s
Obtainable everywhere.*
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
F or
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
This is the age of specialisation. We are special-
ists in our particular line, which comprises sacks
and bags. We allow anvone at all to bowjnorf
than ourselves of the “Differential Calculus. > or
instance : but more than ourselves of sacks and bags,
No! Most emphatically. No! There is no firm in
the Commonwealth more fitted to advise you on
your sack requirements, or in a better P os * l1 ®” *?
=erve you at lowest market prices than the "sacK
Specialists’' : so cut out this address. T. Smith ana
Co., Ltd., Sussex-street, Sydney, and write them
now.*
ZANETIC ink paper is so wonderfully
that, when placed under writing paper, it produces
by the act of writing with pen and ink a .
permanent copy. No copying-press required, Lac
Zanetic sheet makes tnanv copies. All Stationers,
from Makers. S. B. ZANETIC, Welford R«>a.
Leicester, England. Sample sheet 2d., post free.
It is an admitted fact that the growth of the
Rignev Shoe Co.. 300 George Street, and hSa r>£•
Street, Sydney, has been most pronounced. Just
cently they have opened up a new store in t
Buildings. Edward Street. Brisbane. The new - '-P
is most modern and up-to-date and 'toes credit
the northern city. The remarkable growth 01
concern goes to show the possibilities of MP 3 -
there are in a business where quality is sup
vital factor, as is the case with the Rigney footw .;
Their latest Catalog. “The Rigney Shoe for Mem
is a most creditable production, smartly lllust »
and printed in three colors. A copy of this ca ch _.
will be mailed free from any of the Rignej
Parlors upon application.* .
One of the best novels yet written in Australia i*
“Bettv Wavside.” bv Louis Stone (author™
“Jonah”). The story is to be published m m
Lose Hasd, commencing with July.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
From a discursive contributor: —
The knighted Best, who had the bad manners to
beat a charming lady in the Kooyong (Vic.) fight,
narrowly escaped making piUs and mixing up doc-
tors’ physic. His father, who worked in that way
for a generation in Fitzroy (Vic.), would like to
have seen his beloved Robert succeed to the business,
or, at all events, become a CoUins-street surgeon,
rather than a lawyer; but Bob had no hankering
after the pestle and mortar. And there was Chief
Justice Stawell, who would have liked his heir to
become a K.C., and go to the Bench like himself;
but, contrariwise, he went for pills and potions.
Three now well-known men read their Csesar together
in an old schoolroom on Victoria Parade, where R.C.
children were taught their lessons in the day time,
and an old schoolmaster got leave to have a matricu-
lation class in the evenings. Here, side by side, sat
nightly Best, Horan and Forde, and read, with tre-
mendous interest, aH the stale news about the Gallic
war. Best became a Federal Senator and a kn ght,
Horan a far-famed cricketer, and Forde, a newspaper
man. has just published a “Story of the Victorian
Bar” from infancy to amalgamation. The old school-
room has long disappeared, and the “professor,”
whose name was Kiernan. is stowed away somewhere
very quiet.
RESTORED HARMONY.
Re the frequent reports of chronic discord in
the N.S.W. Cabinet. The public is glad to
know that , with the advent of Mr. Holman
as Premier, harmony will be restored.
A send-off to ex-Speaker McCourt
(X.S.W.) :
When I first saw ex-Sneaker McCourt, whose death
is just reported, I was struck by the resemblance of
his figure to that of the late John Ballance, Premier
of Maoriland at the time of his death in 1893. The
two men had a good deal in common. Both were
Irishmen—McCourt was born in County Monaghan,
and Ballance in County Antrim —and" both were
generally too good-natured to say “No” to any
request for a favor. In fact, this quality was so
pre-eminent in the case of Ballance that he was
nicknamed “Promising John,” like Antigonus “the
Promiser,” who was a king in old Macedon. Bal-
lance could be inflexible at times, however, and in
this respect, and in his more commanding ability, he
differed from McCourt. There were parallels in their
careers, for both came out to this part of the world
at an early age, and both took up newspaper work.
Ballance, after trying business as a jeweller, started
the Wanganui Chronicle, which is now a flourish-
ing paper. McCourt, when only 23, established the
Scrutineer in Moss Vale. Each ran his newspaper
for about nine years before he entered Parliament,
Ballance in 1875 as member for Rangitikei, and
McCourt in 1883 as one of the members for Cam-
den. At this point, however, the parallel ends with
great violence. It was a rowdy night in the N. S.
Wales Parliament when I first got the grip of
McCourt’s ample want of qualification for the Speak-
ership. He was calling “Order! order!” while
everybody else, taking no notice of him with unos-
tentatious unanimity, went on yelling. Having by
that time seen O'Rorke, the best fullback of my
experience, stop a row in double-quick time in the
M.L. House, and leave the participants dazed by the
futility of their efforts to get past him, I went out
into the street shaking my head sadly. McCourt,
good, kindly fellow, wasn’t O’Rorke, and he wasn't
Ballance.
A man who made a flying streak of his-
tory last week was J. Dumpumpance—if the
daily paper got him correctly—who fell
100 ft. at a Broken Hill mine and got off
with slight injuries. Probably he dropped
his name down first and then fell on it.
£he
Press.
NlflH. OT.Lt q\JOO
tlO*.
EDITOR
TRIGGS, of
Maorilana's
Fatman
organ , THE
PRESS.
Lately dead at Petersham (N.S.W.), aged
73, John Briton, railway contractor. After
superintending many works in Maoriland, he
carried through the Lismore-Tweed exten-
sion in the Ma State, and then settled down
to an old age. full of friends and bowls. He
was the founder of the Petersham Club,
which he "skipped” to victory many times.
“Lygon St.”: Portly Jack Taverner, the
just-retired Agent-General for Yic., return-
ing to his native State on a flying visit,
declaimed these words for the benefit of an
Argus reporter:—
London has strong claims upon me. I have
established a business connection that is not lightly
to be broken. My official and private business have
taken me into established financial circles.
The Argus raises no objections; but if
Taverner were a Labor man he might pos-
sibly be invited to explain how he, as paid
agent of the State, contrived to find time
and opportunity to work up for himself a
considerable private business in London.
Engineer-printer John Barnes, who died
recently at Drummoyne (Sydney), was
born 84 years ago in Nottingham, where his
father and grandfather supplied much of
the intricate machinery used in lace-making.
He came to Sydney 60 years ago, and from
1856 to 1892 had charge of the mill wherein
the S.M. Herald weaves its daily web of
fact and fancy.
The man who looked after the late King
Edward’s motor-cars has published a half-
guinea volume of 360 pages, under the title
of “What I know” —which isn’t much.
Stamper is the name of the man who doesn't
know much, though his raw material is evi-
dently written up by an expansive journa-
list. Whenever anything went wrong with
the motor “there was on the King's coun-
tenance a placid acceptance of the situation
and a calm expectancy of worse to come.”
There’s royal philosophy for you 1 Of
Stamper's stories this is a sample. Three
onion-eating servants had perfumed the
royal presence. After rebuking the first
two politely, the King lost his dignity with
the third, and exclaimed. “Well I'm damned
if you haven’t been eating onions too!” The
keen perception of these monarchs is amaz-
ing. If a king saw wheel-tracks on the
road, and noticed three dead dogs, and
sniffed a strong odor of petrol, he would
probably guess that a motor-car had been
that way.
SLY , MURKAY, STREET AND GORDON , OF THE N.S.W. SUPREME COURT
“The Rager” writes a footnote: —
“Chasuble” (B. 12/6/’l3) gives Tasmania the
credit of producing Father George Robinson, of
Camberwell, and says he is a ’vert. As a matter of
fact, he hails from Dublin, and is not a ’vert; but
his father, a Dublin Protestant barrister, ’verted,
and son George was brought up as an R.C. “Chas-
uble” further remarks that Robinson came into
prominence for his baritone singing amongst the
priests. That’s all true, but that “the general pub-
lic first heard of him as patron of Amy and Dolly
Castles” is only partly true; for George had, before
the advent of Amy Castles, been fined twice for over-
crowding the Melbourne Town Hall on the occasion
of his lectures on “The Emerald Isle,” and that
looks as though he had been heard of pretty em-
phatically.
Marked up for retirement. Amelius Mor-
land Smith, one of Maoriland’s most popu-
lar public servants. The Bulletin refuses
to say how old he is, or to give a hint of it
by quoting the retiring age in M.L.’s Civil
Service. If the paper did. and subscribers
were subsequently to see that smart hussar
like figure (nothing is so militarily clean-
cut as the hussar figure, and A.M.S. was a
subaltern in the 18th Hussars something
over years ago), it would invite a lost
reputation for veracity. Anyhow, this much
may be said that, when he arrived in Maori-
land. George Grey appointed him A.D.C.
After that he had a long and enviable career
in the confidence of M.L.’s political leaders.
If anybody knows more and will keep it less
dark than Amelius Smith about John Hall,
Harry Atkinson. Frederick Whitaker. John
Ballanc-e, Timi Carroll and a few more, this
family journal is anxious for his address.
“Xylem’’: E. A. Schaefer, who was made
a knight the other day along with Sydney's
master-surgeon MacCormick, narrowly
missed coming to Sydney Uni. It was a
long time ago. A medical chair was vacant,
and there were two applicants running neck
and neck. One was this Schaefer; the other
“Andy” Stuart. By the vote, report says,
of Storie Dixon, Stuart got the job, and
Schaefer became in due time Professor of
Physiology at Edinburgh Uni., and a very
distinguished histologist who has dived deep
into the origin of life and such profound
matters. Anderson Stuart doesn’t, I sus-
pect. envy him those honors; but what
wouldn’t he give for the other’s bit of a
title!
Hayati Hassid, the 30in. Turk who was
here a while ago with a company of freaks,
came back to Australia on June 14 convinced
that this is the best country on earth iu
which to pass the remainder of his years, of
which he has used up 57. Hayati once had
a job as a court-jester under Abdul Dammit,
but he never beheld that cheerful monarch,
and confesses to being a very terrified com-
edian while he held the post. Once out of
range of royal command performances the
dot began to amass many shekels and ac-
quired considerable property in Salonika.
He foresaw the upheaval and sold all he had,
sending two^ large nieces to America early
last year. Xow he intends bringing the two
g ; rls to Australia to minister to the comfort
of their occasionally irascible paper-weight
uncle.
The latest 'Murkan screaming missioners
in these parts got no stipend, salary,
screw, remuneration, honorarium or emolu-
ment. It was distinctly announced
that those were the terms on which they
came. The accounts show, however, this in-
teresting i_tem: “Thank-offering to mis-
sioners. £450.” “Thank-offering”—what a
beautiful alias for the good old oof-bird to
trade under!
From “Rosna,” in London:—
Meandering through the sculping department of
that depressing grave-yard, the Royal Aeademv, one
comes upon the suave countenance of Australia’s old
friend, Better-not Wallington, now chief wrat>-carrier
to Mary, Queen of England. The bust is the work
of the talented young Svdnev-sider, Fairlie Cun-
ningham, who dwells at Alexandra House, where a
hundred or so musical and artistic maidens tear
their food and wear their nighties. The place was
built on the suggestion of the Dowager Queen, and
’ts august patron swoops down occasionally to buy
the champion efforts of anv voung artists who'”e
talents look better than their clothes.
Mrs. H. Johnson, who was buried at
South Head, near Sydney, last week, helped
to “keep'’ the old South Head lighthouse
over half a century ago. Henry Johnson
her husband, was a merry old chap, witli
much sea-lore, who relished a run to Sydney
by bullock-dray or whaleboat. There was
no electricity then. The stages of candles
oil and gas had to be passed through before
the world knew the new. uncanny iilu-
minant; but the widow lived to hear of
acetylene gas being preferred even to elec-
tricity. Also she had heard in her latter
days of the revolutionary proposal to dis-
pense with resident lighthousekeepers alto-
gether. “Then who’ll keen the wild sea-
birds from darkening the light?’’ was the
experienced old lady’s comment; and she
didn't think any other was wanted.
Margaret Smith, a middle-aged woman,
who received a sentence of six months for
stealing in Sydney one day last week, has
now had 250 convictions recorded against
her. It seems about time the Law sat down
in a quiet corner and considered whether it
has been prescribing the right medicine for
Margaret whose back name is Smith.
“Jeames” writes from the servants’ hall:
Norman Murray, a Sydney solicitor, has been
elected a member of the Royal Yacht Squadron. To
local papers of the stamp of the Sydney Telegraph
which recently accused a State Labor Minister of
PIDDTNGTON, K. C.
of N.S. IP., Industrial
Commissioner (who had
trouble with a Federal
Judgeship some time back.)
being publicly ban-
queted at the Carlton
Club (under the de-
lusion that the Carl-
ton and the City
Carlton were the
same place) such a
happening carries
little significance. To
one who, like myself,
has waited on the brat
families in his time,
it is profoundly inter-
esting. How was it
done, and why ? Who
were Murray’s pro-
poser and seconder ?
What is the meaning
of it all? The R.Y.S.
is probably the most
exclusive club in the
world, more so than
the Turf Club, or the
Union Club of Berlin,
or even the Vienna
Jockey Club. Dukes
have been blackballed
for it, and Marquises
have been told
quietly, but firmly,
that it would be use
less for them to be
put up. It is a lit-
eral fact that it is
easier in England to
secure a peerage than
to become a member
of the R.Y.S. Lip-
ton has been “pilled”
twice for this intol-
erable haughty insti-
tution. although he
was supported in his
candidatures by roval-
ties, and has spent a
vast fortune on vaeht-
ing. He could bo»
a peerage for a fixed
sum, if he went abo”t
the venture intelli-
gently. He will
never buy the right
to fly the white en-
sign on his yachts.
Murray is all right,
of course, on the
score of azure gore.
He is a grandson of
old Johnstone, of
Annandale, and his
peode have “borne
arms” for as far
back as the naked
eye can discern. And
he is also a fairlv
nrominent yachting
identitv i n these
parts. But such qualifications are not enough. Picture
the stupefaction of a dailv paper editor at the news
that Dan Levy had been created Earl Levy of Darling-
hurst. and you get some taint notion o' my astonish-
ment at the distinction that has overtaken Mr. Mur-
ray.
DEPOSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To say that Alexander Yolinin, the famous pre-
mier danseur appearing with Genee and the Imperial
Russian Ballet at Melbourne Her Majesty’s, created
a furore is but to lightly describe the triumph he
achieved. M. Yolinin is not only unusually good-
looking, but has a most attractive personality and
the figure of an Apollo, with the most perfect legs
any man has ever displayed on the stage in Aus-
tralia. — Melb. paper.
I saw a being, grave and stout,
Who walked the dingy street about.
He wore a battered, mildewed crown,
’Neath which the lovelocks rippled down;
A holey robe he sported, too,
Through which the wintry breezes blew;
And clasped within his shaking hand,
The remnant of a sceptre grand.
Mhy do you stroll the pavement drear?”
“O man,” I asked, “what do you here —
“Pray, tell me, are you hurt, annoyed—
Are you a monarch unemployed ?”
“Once was I k ; ng, and more,” he said ;
“Once laurels decked my gracious head.
“And many women gave bouquets
To win the honor of my gaze.
“And shaU I tell you, simple fool,
The ancient kingdom of my rule?
“My kingdom, varlet, was the stage,
Whereon mv legs were all the rage.
“And not a writer could bedim
The glory of each splend.d limb.
“But now they toast me not in wine ;
They talk of better legs than mine.
“Alas ! They call my pegs a sin
Besides the props of Yolinin!”
And while he broke his crown in two
My recollection grew and grew.
I understood this king accurst
Was ex-King Julius the First!
victoria.
JEAN SIBI.


“AUSTRAL”
TAILORING.
10% Reduction Sale.
SAC SUlt TO
MEASURE
BOOTS
Our famous Boots,
at —
Usual Price, 13/6
Sale Price, 12/2
Box Calf Glace Kid
and Tan Wil-
low, up to date
shapes—
Usual Price, 18/6
Sale Price, 16/8
Ditto, ditto —
Usual Price, 22/6
Sale Price, 20/3
Bostock, Mason &
Maison, Crockett
& Jones, in Glace
Kid only—-
Usual Price, 25/-
Sale Price, 22/6
1W
is
SHIRTS
SPECIAL REDUCTION.
Usual Sale
Price. Price.
Fashion Shirts in
P’cy Striped Cam-
brics .. .. 3/(5 2/11
Ditto, ditto - • 4/(5 3/5
Oddments in Fashion
Shirts in Zephyrs
and Cambrics .. (5/(5 4/11
Crime an Shirts,
Rands, or Collar
and Pockets .. 8/6 6/11
*
f,
m —f \ \
*
mm,
',-x
■
?..■' : : vtsi
} .
'Mmmm
: v*iai
v|n
>.
£S
ASs^
«»2fc
% V;
;mtl
Xffl
1*1• i '"Ti
: ' , - .' •
sffiSsB®9^s-|^sse*fc
SlsfeiSM
&9£i&
<<v;.T.«‘
LPc'^4i
fla^
V£
-•
m
\
w
-.
Mw&M.
Mm&te
m
£
s•*;*
Wk
wn
m
&4££j^4h ! -\ v ■
m
m
mm
*>;
*%SS
HI
§%«%-■
sS®
■•'l
- \r‘
U-:
K
g||?IPiSSH
iSSi
j|«r
45 years
ous busi
in o' and
O
work as the
distributors
made goods
the roof of our
close of
of strenu-
ness build-
pioneenng
principal
of Australian-
we stand upon
modern up-to-
date six-storey warehouse in the heart of the great
city of Sydney, and write on the skies Australia’s
appreciation of the opening of our io per cent.
Stocktaking Reduction Sale, confident in the
fact that our values with this reduction will com-
mand universal attention. In all our depart-
ments —shirts, hats, boots, underwear, mercery,
bags, rugs, boys’ wear, youths’ suits and men’s
ready-to-wear, as well as our high-class Men’s
Order Tailoring Department, employing exclu-
sivelv ten cutters and 220 hands —we have re-
j
duced every line at least 10 per cent., and we
pay carriage on all orders throughout Australia.
If you cannot call, send for catalogue and you
will get 10 per cent, off all list prices. We
will send patterns and self-measurement forms.
Our 120-page Catalogue contains
everything for Men’s and Boys’
Wear, and carefully details various
styles and sizes.
OVERCOATS
>
V
k i
HATS
Usual
Price.
Christie’s Grey Franco Soft
Hats . . • • • • 12/6
Self and Black Bands, by
Popular Makers,
12/6, 13/6 & 14/6
Lounge Softs, various colors S/6
Ditto • • • • • • 6/6
Sale
Price.
6/11
8/11
ft 'ft
3/11
PYJAMAS
Flannelette Pyjamas,
Usual Price, 4/6
Sale Price, 3/0
Osman Flannelette,
Usual Price, 7/6
Sale Price, 5/11
Oxford,
Usual Price, 10/6
Sale Price, 6/11
Twill Ceylon Taffeta,
Usual Price, 12/6
and 15/-
Sale Price, 9/6
/
UNDERWEAR
and SWEATERS
Usual Sale
Price. Price.
All Wool Undershirts .. 4/6 47-
All Wool Underpants .. 4/11 4/6
Jason All Wool Undershirts 7/6 6/9
Jason All Wool Underpants 8/6 7/8
White Sweaters .. 5/6 & 5/11 3/11
White and Colored Sweaters,
6/6 & 7/6 4/1 1
White and Colored Sweaters,
S/6 & 9/6 7/11
GOW I N G
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF
484 486, 488 & 490 George Street ; & 3,5, 7
* 7 -
BROS.,
AUSTRALIAN GOODS,
9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“SISKOL” ROCRDRILLS.
“SISKOL" HAMMERDRILLS.
"SISROL" COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New Zealand (Maori-
/and) :
Paid Interest
towards on
Loss of Money
Assets Ad-
Reali- vanced Divi-
Written sat,ion by dend Re-
Profits. Off. Board. State. 5 p.c. serves.
Mar., £ £ £ £ £ £
1901.. 300.242 160,065 50,000 89,577 23,474
1902. .289,502 37,001 151,135 80,000 21,366 23,474
1903.. 290.591 15,001 174,410 80,000 21,180 23,474
1904.. 12,500 179,022 80,000 21,281 23,987
1905.. 15,001 206,312 51,978 47,618 23.987
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£19,910) 43,897
1906.. 330.330 16,001 224,329 40,000 50,000 43,897
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£37,397) 81,294
7£ p.c. pref.
10 p.c. ord.
1907.. 343.881 16,000 40,000 87,500 281,675
1901.. 369.923 20,000 40,000 87,500 504,098
8| p.c. pref.
12J p.c. ord.
1909.. 368.151 15,000 40,000 106,250 710,999
1910.. 314.386 15,000 40,000 106,250 864,135
10 p.c. pref.
15 p.c. ord.
1911.. 355,270 20,000 40,000 125,0001,034,405
1912. .396,183 25,000 40,000 125,0001,240.588
1913.. 40,000 40,000 125,0001,418,118
The B.N.Z. has reached another corner-post. When
the great borrowing drunk of the ’Bo’s came to
an end, as all drunks must, the bank held the State
up for a cool two and a half millions —not at once,
but all within a few months. The alternative was
smash, and in the ruin of the bank and thousands of
customers the State would have suffered terribly.
Of the £2,500,000, half a million was in terminable
shares, which were paid out when things improved.
Subsequently the bank made an arrangement with
Seddon whereby another £500,000 was repaid. As
for the other £1,500.000, the State undertook to
back the bank for £1,000,000 for 10 years on condi-
tion that, as for the other £500,000, pref. shares for
that amount were issued to the State. The
£1,000,000 will fall due next year, and the ques-
tion now is what is to be done about it? The bank
can’t prudently pay oft the million, and just leave
tjie capital where it is. Besides the half-million in
pref. shares held by the State, the paid capital is
£500,000 in ordinary shares. The liabilities (de-
posits, etc.) total £'i5,776,401. A bank with lia-
bilities of that size ought to have funds of its own
of £2,500,000, and then, if it expects to increase its
figures, it ought to at once think about increasing
its capital. The private shareholders, or some of
them, seeing the gorgeous profits that have been
made, naturally want to have more shares issued to
them at par: it isn’t often they get the chance of a
15 p.c. bank investment, and they don’t want to let
it slip, of course.
But the State has, or ought to have, other ideas.
When the Government saved the concern from utter
ruin, and when it subsequently undertook to become
a partner in the business, it was not with the object
of making the shareholders fat. It wanted to give
the public some at least of the benefits of a strong
bank in which the interests of the community would
be considered. It was ready to save something out
of the wreckage for the old shareholders; it recog-
nised that they were entitled to some sympathy and
help, and if it could do a bit for them while giving
the public some at least of the benefits of a State
Bank, so much the better. If it had not recognised
that they were entitled to some sympathy and help,
it would undoubtedly have taken the whole thing
over. The position in that respect was exactly the
same as it was in the case of, say, the Deposit and
Mortgage Bank of Melbourne, whose old shareholders,
though all their capital was gone, were permitted to
retain a tr'fling interest, which would benefit in pro-
portion to the reconstructed bank’s success in dis-
posing of old securities. When they say that they
and they alone should put up the new capital and
harvest the fat dividends, the private shareholders
misconceive the whole position. If they never get a
chance to put up another penny of capital the}' will
have done extraordinarily well. But, whatever scheme
is adooted, the Dominion Government ought to make
it perfectly clear at once that its one justification in
doing what it did was to secure oermanently for the
people some of the benefits of a State Bank ; and it
is obvious that it will rob the people of those benefits
if it allows private shareholders to put up capital
and draw 15 or 20 p.c. on it. Had it not been that
it was urgently necessary to build up a strong re-
serve quickly, the profits made during the past seven
or eight years would have been utterly unjustified.
That is to say, the bank’s charges during the nast
seven or eight years should have been much less than
they have been. With a reasonable reserve accumu-
lated, the people should now begin to benefit. If
they don’t, it was a good deal like a confidence trick
to put the ; r money into the concern, instead of using
it to establish a straight-out State Bank. What
private shareholders are entitled to ask is that the
uncalled £3 6s. Bd. per share on their shares (now
raid to £3 6s. Bd.) shall be called up, either in a
lump or by degrees. But no more. For the rest, the
Dominion should provide any further capital that may
be wanted, and should insist on the peonle getting
the benefit of the small profit which the State is, or
should be, prepared to accept.
So much for the future. As for the past year, it
is not necessary to say much beyond what the
figures themselves point out. Here is a comparison:
Liabilities.
1908. 1912. 1913.
Notes in circula-
tion .. £912,627 £1,030,966 £994,680
Bills in circula-
tion, etc. . . 1,838,676 1,367,483 1,367,081
Deposits . . 12,771,413 15,833,868 16,414,640
ASSETS.
Liquid . . 7,399,884 10,092,187 11,034,363
Old Assets Board
assets.. .. 471,235 136,356
Advances . . 9,871,341 10,888,823 10,757,329
Premises, etc .. 321,853 420,538 467,827
Deposits, which fell off rather badly in 1911-12, have
been on the mend again. On the other hand, ad-
vances, which increased rapidly in 1911-12, have been
reduced a trifle. These movements are reflected in
the improved and very solid holding of coin and
other liquid assets. The management of this bank
deserves much credit for helping to bring Maori-
land more or less to its senses. The chairman —one
of the Government reps, on the Board —found fre-
quent opportunities to point out that the country
was far too extravagant, and must ease off its im-
ports in order to avoid disaster. This was not merely
a matter of opinion ; there were the figures to show
that in four years the exports hadn’t been enough
to pay for imports and interest on foreign debts by
nearly £2,500,000 —which meant, of course, that the
country was either living on its savings or mortgag-
ing its future. The warnings had effect —no doubt
this and other banks put on the screw, as they call
it—and things are improving. If they hadn’t done
so the country would have been steadily drained, and
a crash sooner or later would have been absolutely
inevitable. As it is, profits may quite likely ease
off, but they will be more real; for the assets will
be sounder, and there won’t be the same unpleasant
probabilities of large amounts having to be written
off reserves (and possibly capital, too) in order to
balance the losses on shrunken securities.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank has just got a
fine, large advt. in Melbourne. The local Board of
Works wanted £300,000 badly. After skirmishing
around unsuccessfully for a time, it went with its
troubles to the Commonwealth Bank. And, though
the last State loan had cost about £4 12s. p.c., and
State security should be better than that of the
Board of Works, the Commonwealth Bank put the
business through at £4 ss. 3d. p.c. Had the Board
accepted the best English offers, it—that is to say,
the people of Melbourne —Would have had to pay
£llOO a year more interest than will be paid
under the completed arrangement. The whole differ-
ence, of course, lies in two facts: (1) the Common-
wealth Bank’s own credit is the best possible, because
it is the one bank that has a whole continent to
guarantee it; (2) it isn’t out after dividends, so
that, after providing for expenses and a reserve, it
will give the public the benefit of its services in the
way of reduced charges. The Australian investor
hasn’t yet realised what effect the. Commonwealth
Bank is going to have on banking profits in Aus-
tralia. The Melbourne incident will perhaps make
him think a bit more about it.
Goldsbrougii, Mort and Co., Limited.
the wool people, of Sydney and many other places :
Net Interest Paid on Added to Re-
Mar., Earnings. Debenture Stocks, etc. Reserves, serves-
-1902.. 1:83,897 All stock 4p.c. ==£82,398 £1,499 £4,958
1903.. 79,136 All stock 4 ~ ~ 78,771 365 5,323
1904.. 84,723 All stock 4„ „ 78,089 6,034 11,9.17
1905.. 95,459 All stock 4 „ ~ 78,023 17,436 29,393
/ A stock 4 ~ ~ I n9 l
1906.. 181,8174 B stock 5 ~ ~ ( 68j 7 e5 93,158
(5.p.c div. ~ 27,950 J
f A stock 4 ~ ~ 46,897 \
1907.. 220,(.75-' B stock 5 ~ ~ 36,385 V 81,493 179,651
(in p.c. div. ~ 55,900 J
I A stock 4 ~ ~ 43,2861
1908.. 160,1474 B stock 5 „ ~ 36,079 V 24,882 204,533
(10 p.c. div. ~ 55,9 iO J
1 A stock 4 ~ ~ 42,724 1
19 j 9. . 162,3904 B stock 5 ~ „ 35,716 V 12,079 216,612
(12 6-7 p.c. div. = 71,871 j
I A stock 4 p.c. = 42,1221
1910.. 241,9164 B stock 5 ~ ~ 34,718 V 81,227 297,839
(15p.c. div. ~ 83,849 J
Transferred to Capital, £79,856 .. 217,983
f A stock 4 p.c. = 40,9621
1911.. 345,929 B stock 5 „ „ 32,312 J-144,885 362,868
(2(1 p.c. div. ~ 127,770 J
Transferred to Capital, £63,885 .. 298,983
/ A stock 4 p.c. 40,1281
1912.. 382,101 ' B stock 5,, , 33,697 (167,728 466,711
(20 pc. div. „ 140,548 J
i A stock 4 ~ ~ 39,7591
1913.. 202,4994 B stock 5 „ ~ 33,388 V 23,941 490,652
[l5 p.c. div. ~ 105,411 J
As The Bulletin tried to explain, the profits dis-
closed during the years ended March, 1910-11-12, were
quite abnormal. The co. was then making money out
of its own and some of its clients’ past misfortunes.
Things were so bad in the early ’9o’s that not only
was share capital lost, but debenture-holders had to
submit to the writing-off of 40 p.c. of their capital.
That followed, of course, on the writing-down of the
co.’s own old assets and those which its drought- and
rabbit-stricken clients threw on its hands. A gloomy
■view of the future was taken —too gloomy a view.
There are people, in fact, who say that in eases
there was method in the management’s pessimism.
Anyway, after some shareholders had dropped out, too
faint-hearted to face the tribulations that were said
to be in front of the pilgrims, the tribulations were
found to have been over-stated, and the braver or
cannier people who hadn’t dropped out waxed fat.
Still, if people might reasonably have foreseen that
things weren’t going to continue as bad as they
were in the ’9o’s, nobody could reasonably have fore-
seen that things would get so rapidly good as they
have been for these pastoralists and pastoral com-
mission agents, etc., in the last few years. The
wonderful procession of good seasons in the back
country has no doubt been the chief factor ; but both
political parties have helped to pile the fat on. First
there was the Labor policy of breaking up big estates
by graduated land tax and otherwise. The disrup-
tion of freehold estates close in drove sheep-men on
to the farther-out leases. That meant the unloading
of the co.’s own long-neglected properties at big
prices; also it meant fine commission earnings on the
sale of other people’s properties. Next, the Liberal
policy of buying up freehold estates helped to boost
the price of properties in general, and the fat wheat-
years, emphasised by the flock of motor-cars sported
by successful cockies, kept the market for farms on
the move. So, in spite of the land tax that the big
holders cried so bitterly about, such concerns as
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. got out of freehold proper-
ties, too, at a fine profit. But they can’t go on
selling the same properties every year; hence, in this
paper’s opinion, the profits for 1910-11-12 were ab-
normal.
Last year things eased off. Dozens of men of
small means saw trouble ahead of them when the year
began with drought and ended with a very dull wheat
market. The go-on-the-land boom was then over:
farming wasn’t all that the cockies’ motor-cars said
it was. “There have been no realisations of any of
the co.’s properties during the year,” the directors
sav. They were very lucky if some of what they had
sold weren’t thrown back on their hands. And then
there were diminished earnings from wool sales. The
drought cut into the flocks and reduced the clip, and
this co. put 36,175 less bales through. Prices cer-
tainly were good, but no doubt this co. suffered like
the others from much-increased wages costs. On the
whole, it is surprising, not that the profits fell off
so much, but that there is so little difference between
those of last and the previous year. It can only be
because the co. made fine orovision for depreciation
in the years of full and plenty and didn’t think it
was called upon to do so much last year.
The share capital now is £702,737, in £1 shares,
and there are reserves to protect two debenture issues.
This shows the whole position so far as assets and
liabilities were concerned on March 31: —-
1902. 1912. 1913.
Capital . . . . £558,995 £702,737 £702,737
Reserves .. .. 4,959 582,122 560,926
Debentures . . . . 1,974,960 1,668,073 1,662,088
Other liabilities .. 64,609 110,216 239,677
Liquid assets . . 67,475 484,434 589,066
Advances, properties,
etc. . . . . 2,159,326 2,308,393 2,308,153
Premises, etc. . . 376,716 270,321 268,208
The reserves in that table don’t tally with those in
the first table, because the figures just given are as
at March 31, before the final appropriations for the
year. Independent of any improvement that there
may be in the quality of the “advances and proper-
ties” item, the figures are better all round. And
there ought to be an improvement which figures don’t
disclose. Certainly some of the assets against which
advances have been made must be expected to shrink
in value, but there ought to be a bi" margin between
book and market value in others. Two or three bad
years—and we must expect them —will unquestion-
ably made the profits look very different; but if
there isn’t an internal reserve to tide the co. over
any ordinary drought, without biting pieces out of
the visible reserves, then the co. hasn’t taken full
advantage of its opportunities.
W. E. Smith, Ltd., formed last year to
take over an old-established printing and stationery
business in Sydney, as from October, 1910:
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Oct., 1910 £19,068
Apr., 1911 ..£3947 10 p.c. = £3408 18,529
Oct., 1911'.. 5354 10 „„ 3408 £677 17,260
Apr., 1912 .. 5122 4 „„ 1500 702 14,340
Oct., 1912 .. 4382 7 „ „ 2625 717 13,300
Apr,, 1913 .. 3867 3 ~ ~ 1125 “47 H. 305
The deficit, to begin with, was represented by good-
will and formation exes., both of them purely paper
assets. The co. started during a boom in “indus-
trials,” when 10 and 15 p.c. profits were talked about,
and it made the bad mistake of paying 10 p.c. in its
first year. Gradually the management has got
sounder ideas, and though the payment of a div. at
the rate of 3 p.c. for the half-year (making *5 p.c.
- for the year) has further shaken the market, the
new policy gives the co. a much better chance of
being a permanent institution. The capital is
£75,000; and in order to obtain money for factory
premises and plant and other purposes, £20,000
has been raised on debentures Carrying the stiff rate
of 6 p.c. The principal assets now are: Book debts,
>£17,866 ; stock, £32,349; plant, £17,565;
factory, £4258; and leasehold (main busi-
ness premises), £4237. In addition to
paying rent for its principal premises the
Co. has to provide over £550 a year out of profits
to write down the capital in the leasehold. This
and the heavy depreciation of plant make a consider-
able hole' in the revenue ; and the increase of work-
ing costs hasn’t helped matters. Under ordinary
circumstances, the extra costs might no doubt be
passed on; but the job-printing trade is badly cut,
and most of the big and little men in it don’t have
to pay interest on goodwill. Take this business and
another with the same plant and turnover, but with-
out a goodwill loading: in order to show 7 p.c. on
capital, the latter business could afford to take work
or sell goods for, in the aggregate, about £l4OO a
year less than the other. And the disadvantage of
4 business of this nature is that a man doesn’t need
to have much capital to become a competitor ; there
are printing jobs that a tradesman with a plant
worth two or three hundred pounds can’t do, but
there are heaps of jobs that he can do —and the
chances are that, being his own boss, he won’t
restrict himself to 44 hours a week in doing them.
* * * *
Beath, Schiess and Felstead, Ltd. —
This co, was formed in June last year to take over a
50-year-old Melbourne wholesale softgoods business
of the most utterly respectable character. Capital
was fixed at £220,000 in £lOO,OOO p.c. cumula-
tive pref. shares, £70,000 ordinaries, and £50,000
deferred. The prospectus was rather complicated,
and its true meaning wasn’t always visible at a
swift glance. The vendors were to receive £lOO,OOO
in 5 p.c. mortgage debentures with a 15 years’ cur-
rency, plus £36,000 in pref. shares, plus £30,000
in ordinary shares, plus £50,000 in deferred shares
(representing goodwill), plus one-sixth of the profits
for the first year (to January 31, 1913) ; and they
also have an option over 100,000 ordinary shares, or
any less number, at par. The co. was to take over
the business as from June 21, 1912, but the profits
were to belong to the co. as from February 1, 1912,
subject to certain payments. The profits for the year
to January 31, 1913, were £16,654, which amount
has been cut up this way :
To the vendors ... .. .. .. £2,881
64 p.c. to cum. prefs. for six months .. 3,250
6 p.c. to ordinaries for six months.. .. 2,100
Available to reduce deficit .. .. .. 8,423
Total.. ..£16,654
The prospectus was dated June 28, 1912, and was
issued soon thereafter.
According to the auditors’ certificate in the pro-
spectus, “the average profits for the years 1904 to
1912 inclusive, omitting the year 1908, which was
an exceptionally disastrous one in almost every
branch of trade, show that a co. with a capital of
£320,000 as proposed would, on your present turn-
over .... be able to pay the rates of interest and
dividends prescribed (involving an annual charge of
£21,000), and also carry forward nearly £lO,OOO
p.a.” It was not a certificate that this paper would
feel proud of if it were an auditor. In the first
place, to leave out the bad year of an eight-year
period when working out an average strikes this
paper as a poor way of doing things, to put it
mildly. The profits shown above were for a full
year, but were subject to payment of interest on the
old firm’s overdrafts, etc. —accommodation which was,
presumably, replaced by the subscribed capital when
it came in. If, however, after paying only 6 p.c. on
the ordinaries and nothing at all on the deferred
shares, there is only £8423 to put by, it looks as if
either the old firm was paying a very stiff price for
accommodation, or the past year’s results were a
long way short of alleged average—the average wh'ch
the auditors arrived at after striking out the figures
for the bad year. Perhaps we shall know more about
things next year.
Meantime, one or two things may be noted to go
on with: (1) There are £lOO,OOO of 5 n.c. deben-
tures, and these take a first cut. (2) There were
on January 31 £92,119 of other liabilities. (3)
The cumulative pref. shares are not entitled to any
participation in profits beyond 64 p.c. (4) The
deferred shares, issued by ithe co. "for goodwill, are
deferred onlv until the reserves reach a poor little
£30,000. Until then they come in after the prefs.
have had their p.c,, and when the ordinaries have
had “up to 8 p.c.,” and thev are to receive “up to 8
p.c.,” if the profits are available. The prospectus put
this latter provision rather ingeniously. If every man
who read it understood it, this paper’s opinion of
everv man will go up. Its present idea is that the
hurried reader assumed that the deferred shares were
on a rather worse wicket than they actually are.
After the poor little £30,000 has been accumulated,
the deferred shares become ordinary ordinaries.
The co., by the way, was underwritten. For that
service £15,000 was paid in deferred shares, and
the vendors transferred to the underwriters one-half
their option to take shares at any time at par (if
the directors think the co. needs more capital, of
course). The underwriters were W. L. Baillieu,
J. H. Biley, and W. G. Mcßeath.
Solomon Islands Development Co.,
formed in Sydney in 1908 to make plantations and
grow rubber, copra, bananas and dividends:—
To
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1909 . . £847 Nil £847
Profit.
1910 .. 78 Nil £7B 769
Reserves.
1911 . 1294 Nil 1294 525
1912 .. 1613 5 p.c. =£2ooB 130
Premiums on new shares . . 5993 6123
1913 .. 4506 7i p.c.= 3265 1241 7364
During the year 382 unissued shares were sent to
market, existing holders having the right to apply
for one new for every two old shares at a premium
of £l6 ss. Fractions were sold by tender and
realised £29 15s. per share. The premium has been
put to reserve. The shares are £lOO each, but
different amounts have been paid up on them. The
present total capital is £48,845, which leaves
£51,155 still available for further purchases and
development. The co. is under Burns, Philp and
Co.’s wing. It has control over about 50,000 acres,
but the short supply of native labor makes the pro-
gress of plant : ng slow. At the end of the co.’s year
there were 2682 acres under cocoanuts and 210 in
rubber, with bananas planted between the rows.
Twelve months ago it was said that there were 15
acres of sisal hemp also under cultivation, but there
isn’t any mention of that crop this year. As the
labor supply doesn’t increase, the progress of plant
ing becomes slower every year, as every extra acre
planted means an acre more to keep free from
swift tropical weeds. P 66 trom the
true profit hasn’t jumped during last vear
as the table suggests. The net proceeds from salts
(including trade ) amounted to £5377 in 19n i?
and for the past year the total was £5587 TW
against the revenue for the previous year'various
administrative and other exes., incurred since r e
beginning, were charged, while the past year nr,lv
had to carry the charges proper to that yLr The
fly in the ointment is the labor supply. The'native
ought to work for his own good, but he won't” and
the British policy is dead against the introduction
of Asiatic coolie labor. Perhaps there will be a
steady but slow improvement in the local supply as
the Islander gets more used to the idea of steady toil
—as the result most likely, of teaching him new
wants. The co. s officials have hopes of that anv
Way ’r. a bigger labor su PP ] y the profits of this
co. should be very fine and large. Even, however if
it can only hold its own, the income ought to now
make pretty rapid progress with the maturing of the
plantations. The co.’s financial position is easv-
liquid assets, though nothing to talk about are at
any rate a trifle in excess of all liahilit es Of
course practically the whole of the capital has been
sunk in estates and their improvement; and because
the work of improvement can hardly be separated
from the production of the annual crop, the annual
profit must for the present be almost entirely a mat
ter of guessing. But, as before remarked the pro
mising concern is in 8., P. and Co.’s stable with
Colonel Burns as chairman ; and Colonel Burns and
B . P. and Co. are not in the habit of guessing their
profits on the big side when they must be guessed at
all.
Western District Co-operative Pro-
duce Co. (Vic.): —
Bonus to Sup- Re-
Apr-> Profits. Dividends, pliers, etc. serves.
1910 .. £4989 5 p.c. =r £BO £4747 £2857
1911 . . 7153 5 „ „ 181 6897 2932
1912 • • 9696 5 „,, 314 8454 3860
1913 . . 6437 5 „ „ 672 5975 3650
The Bulletin has a kindly feeling for this co-opera-
tive co. As usual with such concerns, it started on
a very small capital—a few hundred pounds only
The turnover was, however, at the rate of over
£300,000 a year straight away, so the shareholders,
who are mostly butter-making cos. or people in a
pretty large way, saw that more capital was indis-
pensable. Instead of waiting for the other fellow
to put up the money, as so many alleged co-opera-
tors do, they agreed promptly to take their bonuses
or most of them in shares. This good plan still
prevails, with the result that of the bonus paid for
the past year no less than £4510 will go on to the
capital, making the total £17,965. The liabilities
are £26,560. The assets representing these two
amounts and the undivided profits on April 30 were:
Book debts, £19,209; buildings and plant, £12,415;
stock, £15,711 ; and a few trifles. The annuai
turnover is about £750,000, so book debts of
£19,209 are extremely moderate. With less satis-
factory trade conditions, it would probably be im-
possible to get the money in so promptlv. Besides
marketing the Western producers’ goods, the co. has
done excellent service in other directions—in pro-
moting a box-factory, for instance, by which alone
it is reckoned this co.’s shareholding factories save
£l5OO a year. Just at present it, in common with
other Australian butter-growers, is worried by the
strides margarine is making in Britain. It isn’t a
cheerful prospect, certainly, for the Australian
butter-grower, whose goods are more seriously
affected than those of the Dane and other suppliers
of fresh butter ; but the growth of the peril is all
the more reason why Australian cow-worshippers should
stick together in this and other co-operative con-
cerns, and thus cut down marketing costs to the
bone, while pushing up the quality of the goods
offered.
Toowoomba (Q.) Co-operative Insur-
ance Co.:—
Policy-
„ , „ „ holders’ Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Bonus, serves.
1910.. £1664
1911 \ £707 10 p.c. = £27 £246 2098
I Transferred to capital, £272 .. 1826
1912 i 965 10 P- e - = 56 33 8 2397
( Transferred to capital, £2BO .. 2117
1913.. 793 10 p.c. = 110 308 2492
This little co. was born when Queensland got its
Workers’ Compensation Act. It did well, and, be-
lieving it could do better, increased its capital last
year in order to take fire risks. Business in this
line has been started —in a modest way, of course,
for the paid capital is still only £1354. (Altoge-
ther 7885 £1 shares have been issued, 5060 of them
paid to 2s. and 2825 to 65.). The funds are nearly all
invested locally—in bank and building society de-
posits and in mortgages—and the interest earnings
last year more than supplied all the dividend. The
whole of the profit from underwriting was thus
available for strengthening the reserves and adding
to the security of the policy-holders. If the thirst
for dividends is not pandered to, and the directors
watch their investments well, there is no reason why
this infant shouldn’t grow into something big. There
is certainly scope for it in Queensland, owing to the
steadily-growing preference for Australian institu-
tions. The feeling in favor of Protection is stronger
in that State than in any other in the Commonwealth,
and it must be only a matter of time when the
public will see that it is just as bad policy to send
good Australian money out of the country to buy
insurance as to buy blankets or locomotives.
The pertinacious W. J. Miles hasn’t
finished yet. The Privy Council has given him
special leave to appeal from the High Court in the
matter of his old quarrel with the Sydney Meat
Preserving Co., which won’t run itself for the bene-
fit of the shareholders as shareholders, but merely
wants, he alleges, to benefit some of the shareholders
as stock-raisers. No wonder the business so far as it
has gone has left Miles in a whirl. (1) Chief Judge
in Equity Simpson (N.S.W.) said Miles would win
if he had proved his facts, but he hadn’t proved
them. (2) Chief Justice Griffith said he had proved
the facts, but he couldn’t win nevertheless. (3)
Justice Barton said he hadn’t proved the facts, and
if he had proved them it wouldn’t matter. (4) Jus-
tice Isaacs said he had proved the facts and should
win accordingly. Thus of the four Judges no two
agree, though there are only two things for them to
either agree or differ on. As a sample of the
changes that can be rung on four notes, striking
two at a time, this about constitutes a judicial re-
cord.
* * * *
A man who knows the inside of the Argus
Building Society (B. 19/6/’l3) writes to say that
the capital hasn’t at any time been written down,
and that the little co. is proud of having honored
all its engagements. On digging into the co.’s
accounts, it is found that, though there have been
times when the capital has shrunk, probably through
forfeitures, the amounts have been small. The posi-
tion in that respect is a bit better than The Bulle-
tin expected to find it. The great bulk of what
loss the co. made in the boom has been provided
for, not out of capital, but gradually ,out of profits.
Not. of course, that that matters very much. Still,
it is pleasant to be able to say that there has
been no butchering of capital. For the rest, th’s
paper remarked that “pretty nearly all” the assets
were represented by balances of principal loaned.
There certainly is £4BlO in cash and deposits, but
that and all other assets other than the advances
amount to only 8 p.c. of the total. As said before,
the position is most likely quite sound; but the
lumping of 92 p.c. of the assets into a heap which
includes properties in possession as well as live


By Appointing the
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
EXECUTOR and TRUSTEE
Testators are assured that
their Estates will be
economically and efficiently
administered. Accounts
rendered regularly to
Beneficiaries.
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET.
2. 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
Suction Gas Plants.
Gas, Petrol, Oil Engines.
SIMPLICITY.
RELIABILITY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Perth.
Sydney.
Brisbane.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Tron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Famlev” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 .Kent
Street, Svdney.* •
*"» * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yds. of
road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yd., and the cost of the spalls per cub. yd. averaged
2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub. yd.,
broken and spread. Their last contract under the
hand-breaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per cub.
yd., stacked on the roadside, and spreading’ Is. ;
total Vs. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a savinp of 2s. sd.
per cub. yd. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [3
* * * #
Extract from Financier, dated London, September-
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which-
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its:
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one-
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the most economical
pressure pipe to lay down, as no caulking of the
joints is required, the pipes being simply driven
together. It can be fitted to anv connections, and
may be tapped under pressure bv unskilled labor
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street
Sydney.*
For all situations where water is scarce, Deane and
Beale s consummate Evaporative Condensers are
efficient and economical for condensing exhaust
steam, and show a saving in fuel and water consump-
tion from 30 to 50 p.c. See p. 3. Australian
representatives: Haes and Eggers, Ltd., 163 Clarence
Street, Svdney.*
* * » •
Simplicity is the goal to which all makers of Oil
and Petrol Engines are making, because, if the
engine is to be made serviceable, it must be so
simple that skilled attention is not necessary.
Hornsby & Sons have achieved the almost impossible
in this respect. The Engines they are now placing
(both Oil and Petrol) on the market are of so simple
a nature that a boy can be taught the management in
a few minutes. Once started, they require practi-
cally no attention. R. Hornsby & Sons, Limited,
Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [4
* * * *
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* [1
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock k Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* » * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the F.nplre.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
loans doesn’t permit a post-mortem ist to express so
favorable a view of the situation as the position pro-
bably warrants. For instance, there is nothing to
indicate that fourth-fifths of the objectionable lump
doesn’t consist of foreclosed properties.
Brewery prospectuses are rare birds now-
adays, but a little one flies in from North Queens-
land. Twelve or 15 years ago a beer-factory was
started, mostly by Adelaide and Broken Hill people,
at Mareeba, on the Cairns-Chillagoe line. The spec,
failed, and the factory was shut up for years. A
while ago a little syndicate took it in hand; and,
now that there are navvies working on the Mulligan
line, and thirsty people served by rail as far out as
Einasleigh, the little syndicate is turning itself into
a co. Until this paper’s Religious Editor has tasted
the beer, no opinion will be expressed about the pros-
pects. Poor beer will mean failure. You can choke
the elothes-wearing public off with any old kind of
cloth ; but when it comes to beer, almost everybody
is an expert.
Evidently the London Board isn’t satis-
fied with the way Great Cobar is shaping; and one
of the d : rectors, Pellew-Harvey, a mining man with
a good deal of experience in Canada, is on the way
to Australia to look into things. He should arrive
early next month.
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) reports a crush-
ing of 302 tons for 4530 z. They continue stoping
three levels above No. 16 on a small vein known as
the shaft reef. This last return pans out about
30dwts. per ton, which is poorer than the two pre-
vious crushings; but the tonnage should now begin
to show up better.
The New Iron Duke, like other copper
shows in the Dandaloo district (N.S.W.), is exposing
some good ore in shallow country. The mine is
situated nfear the Albert Waterholes, 20-odd miles from
Tullamore railway station. Carbonate ore of 20
p.c. is being bagged and sent away. The bottom
level is at 187 ft., at which depth the lode carries
4 p.c. copper and I.2sdwt. gold for a width of from
6ft. to 10ft. There are four shafts on the lode,
which can be more or less traced for 1000 ft. No. 2
shaft at 80ft. had ore bulking over 15 p.c. copper.
This shaft is now down 91ft. in fair-grade carbonates
for a width of sft. Driving is being done at the
58ft. level, the object being apparently to raise and
ship the highest grade ore. The mine is favorably
situated compared with many others—for instance.
Lloyds, at Burraga, and the Grafton, on the Clar-
ence River (N.S.W.).
Adelong Estates (N.S.W.), despite its
illustrious progenitors, has a heavy wad of capital
to fight against, and there appears an item of
£15,000 of debentures in the April balance-sheet.
This doesn’t reflect on the prospects of the show, but
it does suggest that a co. with one-half of the capi-
tal, like the Adelong Dredging, is a nicer gamble at
the moment. So far, Adelong Estates has got only
one dredge in the wash. That plant, having bumped
into a big bar, isn’t paying for the paint it is scrub-
bing off the barge. Yet all this should mend when
the co. gets into deep ground and when No. 2 dredge
bogs in. Till then a weary wait looks like the best
word that can be said about things.
During May, Broken Hill exported
minerals valued at £452,491 —rather more than
usual owing to the tramway hold-up in April. The
34,778 tons of silver-lead concentrates exported were
valued at £332,000, and 39,922 tons of zinc Concen-
trates at £115,285. Incidentally, it may be worth
noting that the lead concentrates (averaged at 60
p.c.) contained 20,866 tons of lead, and the zinc con-
centrates (averaged at 33 p.c. recoverable zinc) con-
tained 13,307 tons of spelter. Last year 279,915
tons of lead concentrates were exported from Broken
Hill. On the average, the production is approxi-
mately 14,000 tons of lead per month. Exact figures
are unobtainable because a large proportion of the
lead concentrates are exported to Europe, and nearly
all the zinc concentrates-—which likewise contain
some recoverable lead—are sent away to give the
foreign workman the job that Australia ought to
have.
* * ¥■ *
B. H. Junction North’s timbers have been
“talking” again. The real trouble is. not that a
stope here and there may crack, but that the shaft
may be affected; and Junction North has only one
shaft. These things help to explain the constant
complaints from this mine that men are scarce.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s receipts for 1912
totalled £389,107. Most of it went in working
costs, and after taking development ( £45,597),
bromo-evanide .litigation ( £8171), debenture in-
terest £6ooo),(London office exes.( £4600) and other
trimmings off the balance, only £10,479 remained.
A brought-forward balance of £31,324 increased
this to £41.803; but the deduction of £6200 for
debentures redeemed cut the carry forward down to
£35,603. This last, .however, is only a book entry,
as the real position is thus: —
Liabilities.
Sundrv creditors . . . . £28,800
Unredeemed debentures .. 93,800
Unclaimed dividends . . 475
£123,075
Liquid Assets.
Bullion and cash .. .. £58,488
Shares at cost .. .. 1,975
Sundry debtors . . . . 568
£61,031
In other words, the co. is £62,044 to the bad. and
until it makes good, the directors have no business
to talk about the resumption of dividends. Such a
near-sighted poliev may suit some interested people,
but it isn’t straightforward, and if persisted in is
bound, in the end, to put a black smudge against
the name of the co. As regards the mine, the gen-
eral manager in his report to the Board states:
“Although everv effort has been made to push ahead
as fast as possible with development, the work has
been slower than anticipated, with the result that
the higher-grade ore is hardly ready for stoping,
and, in consequence, the year’s returns and ore re-
serve figures have been affected. The mine un-
doubtedly has a large quantity of payable ore in
addition ”to the reserves, and as development work
progresses, the position will continue to improve, and
the co. again pay regular dividends.” He estimates
the gross value of the ore actually in sight at
approximately £1,224,880. #
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) has got its
new Howe volatilisation process working, and is at
present treating about 30 tons of arsenical anti-
monial sulphides daily. As far as can be. learned,
results are satisfactory, but as this is said about
all new processes, judgment on the Howe is reserved.
South Ralgurli’s London board has ap-
proved of the policy submitted by general-manager
Morgan for the development of the old and the
newly-acquired Hainault as one property. As the
levels of the two mines do not correspond with each
other, it will be necessary to work from the Hainault
shaft, and operations are to start right away.
* * #
An option has been taken on the Great
Unknown at Mount Jackson (W.A.) with a view to
flotation in Sydney and Melbourne. About 600 tons
have been taken out of it to date, and the recovery
over the plates has aggregated £9372. Sands are
reported to assay 40s. per ton, and some real good
concentrates are said to have been accumulated. It
might be a good thing for a small co. to get hold
of, though its isolation is against cheap working, and
its permanency is not absolutely proved.
Sand Queen (W.A.) has increased its
di vs * from 6d. to 9d., and hopes to do better
still by-and-bve. The bullion reserve for equalising
returns has also been swollen to £6OOO.
* * * *
The spirit has moved a local syndicate to
® . ar| d James’s old Lady Gladys mine, at
Mullme (W.A.), another trial. The former owners
followed down a flat-as-a-pancake sort of formation
to a shallow depth, and earned big money for a time.
Then they came to the conclusion that thev had got
everything worth having, and left. A parallel lode
is now being looked for, and already the usual
something encouraging” has been struck. A few
years ago, when 8., M. and Co. were testing the
property with a view to purchase, a borehole struck
good values at a depth of 300 ft., but the develop-
ment wasn’t considered good enough at the time to
warrant business.
An Adelaide co. has been formed to re-
open the Empress, at Magnet (W.A.). Nearly
worth of gold was taken out down to
200 ft., but, as in the case of many other shows in
that part, sufficient inducement didn’t offer to go
any deeper. Now prospects are said to be better
than ever, but on what ground this assertion is
based is not stated.
Further particulars are now available
regarding the recent development below 1900 ft. in
the Lake View Consols (W.A.). A winze has been
sunk 117 ft. below the level. Some nice ore has
been broken, but values have not been payable all
the way down, though borehole samples have in
places indicated the existence of good stuff in the
sides of the winze.
Edna May (W.A.) has got its plant
running, and shares have risen in expectation of
good returns. With the help of this show and in-
creased returns from Bullfinch and Corinthian North,
Yl „ rn s rnonth ly gold output is expected to top
12,0000 z. before long.
lyanhpc (W.A.) maintains its pleasant
monthly habit of putting its total fine-gold output
into tons avoirdupois. The tally to the end of May
was 53 tons lewt. Oqr. 181 b.
Oaks Amalgamated, the principal concern
on Queensland’s newest sizeable goldfield, has still to
wait for a profit. Working exes, last half-year ran
to £1238. and gold won plus profit on public crush-
ing brought in only £lOO6. Still, there are 300
tons of ore at grass, and as the mining of this has
been included in the half-year’s exes., the co.
shouldn t be much on the wroner side when every-
thing is cleaned up. The patched-up batterv has
been giving trouble all the time, and this current
half-year hasn’t opened any better in that respect.
The bulk of the ore in the mine is low grade for
North Queensland, and something better than the
usual makeshift appliances will be necessary if a
decent profit is to be earned. Fortunately th* 3 mana-
grr is a southerner, used to working on narrow mar-
gins, and he recognises this.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, re-
covers confidence in itself now that the big Bft reef
followed below No. 5 level (2600 ft.), is more heavily
mineralised and contains more gold. The only mine
that has, so far. obtained large quantities of payable
stone below 2600 ft. is the Brilliant Extended ; and,
although at the deepest point touched the reef is
but lightly mineralised, on its past record it is worth
sinking on. If the Extended were to throw up the
sponge every time a blank was met with, very little
would be done. The same remark applies to the
Brilliant Deeps and Mills’ United, which are sinking
to 2700 ft. Both have hanging wall and footwall for-
mations divided by barren rock. At the moment the
Brilliant Deeps is favorite because its last crushing
averaged £6 14s. Id. per ton.
Though the Vulcan has dropped out of
the d.v. list, and doesn’t show much inclination to
return, North Queensland now has two tin mines
paying pretty steady dividends—Prince Alfred and
Tommy Burns. But their capital is a mere handful.
There are only 2000 £5 shares in the Prince Alfred,
near Gurrumbah. The lode, as usual in tin shows,
varies from inches to feet, and values are as irregu-
lar. Last half-year’s shipments to the mill averaged
12 p.c. The dividends for the half-year were £2OOO
(£1 per share), which didn’t leave much over.
This is the best or second-best lode-tin proposition
in Queensland at present.
* * ♦ *
Victorias New Imperial Mine at His-
eocks, near Buninyong (Vic.), is to be closed, after
something like 55 years’ continuous work. It is
about the oldest mine in the State, and is situated
close to the spot where Tom Hiscocks discovered the
first gold in the district in 1851. The New Im-
perial was originally owned by a co-operative party,
and then it paid handsomely. Fifteen years ago a
no-liability co. was formed, but hard times arrived
on the premises, and the shareholders have now de-
cided that hard times can stay there.
North Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford, on a
capital of £8906, has got gold worth £99,848, and
paid £51,000 in dividends on a register of 30,000
shares. “Shaping very well,” is the phrase the
Board employs in respect of the mine. Surely a
more definite estimate should be forthcoming. Tak-
ing the market price of the scrip, there should be
nearly £30,000 of dividends in sight. But what
are the facts? No. 7 level may be used as a slide-
rule to measure by. Here James Trevor, mine mana-
ger, states that the south-east extension of the flat
make has a “very good appearance.” That looks
nice. So does the phrase, “There is every proba-
bilitv of improvement westerly,” were it not for the
qualifying sentence —“Dish nrospects to date hardly
show payable values.” Boiled down, what is being
built on is that what has haooened in No. 6 level
will recur at No. 7 level. Maybe, but Daylesford
mining is uncertain, and fine phrases don’t cut much
ice.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell is pulling round, and, though
the average copper extraction is down to 1.9 p.c.,
it looks as though the forecast of a dividend by
December will be realised. Three furnaces are now
running, and the converter returns for four weeks
have got on to 322 tons fine copper and 5230 z.
gold, with the usual bit of silver.
Tongkah Compound is one of the few
mines that are beating their promoters’ expectations.
\V hen young Byron Moore ran the rule over it just
four years ago he said there was a net profit of
£146,000 in the original 53 acres (then reckoned
as 51), though he expected bigger things from the
neighboring ground than anybody seems likely to
get. The syndicate which owned the concession—as
usual, there was a good deal of Australian jam money
in it—had its modest office in a Melbourne suburb,
and when it formed itself into a bigger co. it fixed
its capital at a mere £50,000. All it wanted was
enough to pay the Siamese Government its £24,000
and buy a dredge; and it was prepared to do a bit
of financing. Its capital is still £50,000; but
already, in 12 months—-from June 14, 1912, to
June 17, 1913- —it has paid its shareholders £67,500
and it has over £20,000 in cash and metal in hand.
Also, it has paid over £6OOO for.'iadditional ground.
It wants that ground badly. AS mentioned above,
the original area was 53 acres, and,,.another 38 acres
of lib. ground have been actually secured. There is
more available, but the co. doesn’t like the price,
which is based on boom tin, and the co. doesn’t know
whether tin will be booming by the time, five or six
years in the future, when the additional areas come
to be worked. The directors can see six years’ work
certain ; but there is not going to be continuous
profit-making at the recent headlong rate. The dredge
a very fine Australian machine, which should be
good for 15 years—started at the south. In the
middle regions of the block there is some very fine
ground ; bores showed as much as 81b., and under
41b. will pay well. But in the northern end there is
poor and almost unpayable dirt. In the other or
new block the northern end is admittedly unpayable,
and that area isn’t reckoned in with the 38 or so
acres. Also, as casually mentioned, the average of
those 38 acres is set down at lib., while the average
of the ground worked in the past half-year has been
2fib. Still, a man would be a glutton to expect a
profit of more than the paid capital every half-year.
Last half-year’s profit was £50,180; but that didn’t
allow for depreciation. Costs (including renewals,
but not depreciation) were 4.69 d. per yard, which is
very low. Tin oxide on the ground is worth £l2B
per ton, and costs are stated at £l5 17s. Id. per
ton. But it is no use looking at it that way. If
lib. ground had to be worked, as it will have to be
worked later on, the cost will be about £44 or £45
per ton. And then there’s the tin market. The
metal is worth £205 to-day. In 1903 it averaged
£127 4s. In 1893 it averaged £B5 7s. 7d. What
it will be six years hence no man can say.
“Bibi-Eibat”: J. E. Carne’s report on
coal, petroleum and copper in Papua is over-burdened
with annotations and comparisons with their occur-
rence in the Dutch Indies and elsewhere in the neigh-
borhood of Papua. Carne thinks the oil belt which
includes Java, Sumatra, Borneo, Celebes, Ceram, Timor
and Papua is confined to lOdeg. N. and lOdeg. S. lat.
This seems an incorrect conclusion, because petroleum
is worked in Assam and Burma on the 20deg. N. paral-
lel, and in New Caledonia at 20deg. South. Carne’s dic-
tum would exclude the Victoria River and the
Macarthur River, and all the Territory north of the
15th parallel of latitude. Yet ozokerite or paraffin
wax and samples of petroleum have been gathered on
the Victoria River ; while recent boring operations on
the Macarthur River Mining Co.’s lease, adjacent to
the South-Western shore of the Gulf of Carpentaria,
proved the existence of bitumen in limestone cores
from 100 ft. to 150 ft. deep. Further, Carne reports
the finding of bitumen on the coast at Cape Wilber-
force, near the western head of the Gulf of Carpen-
tar'a, where the rocks are sandstone. In Papua the
chief discovery of natural gas was made at Opa, 15
miles from the mouth of the Vailala River, which
is exactly 156 miles from Port Moresby, nearly due
north-east, in the Gulf of Papua. There are a num-
ber of bubbling springs of natural gas in cold water.
An odor of petroleum always accompanies this natural
gas, which lights easily and gives off great heat.
Thirty miles up the Vailala River more gas springs
exist at Akauda, both dry and through water. At the
main gas spring there was a thick, frothy scum and
a pronounced odor of petroleum. The country is fer-
tile and heavily timbered, and the low hills where the
gas is found are of clayey formation. The springs
are minute craters in which the mud and water
bubbles as though it were boiling. The froth caused
by this bubbling has a very decided odor of kero-
sene. From the gas escape to the banks of the river
the rocks are sandstone shales, the correct geological
indication for petroleum. Petroleum has been re-
ported from the Gira goldfield, in the extreme north-
east of Papua, on the boundary of German New
Guinea. Gas and oil occur as surface indications in
Dutch New Guinea, and petroleum has been got by
boring in the islands of Ceram and Celebes. So the
evidence is pretty conclusive that Papua is linked with
the productive oil-fields in Java, Sumatra and Borneo.
The crude petroleum collected by J. E. Carne at
Akauda and analysed in Sydney was of a blackish-
brown color in bulk. It had the “bloom” character-
istic of petroleum, and contained 20.8 p.c. of burning
oils, and 74.2 p.c. of intermediate and lubricating
oils, with solid hydrocarbons. It is free from sul-
phur, and the burning oil is of high density. The
strata consisted of sandstone, shale, calcareous sand-
stone and limestone, the last being the basis of the
oil series. Further geological survey is undoubtedly
necessary, but the existence of petroleum has been
proved without doubt, and the boring log of Grebin’s
drilling rig shows it exists much nearer the surface
than oil experts originally believed. In Java oil is
usually got at 1500 ft.
“Gargoyle”: The demand for crude oil
and petrol for fuel and motor-cars has now over-
taken the supply, and an oil famine is looming up.
The latest American estimate of the cars in active
service in the U.S.A. is 1,250,000. Chemists every-
where are searching for a new fuel for internal com-
bustion engines, and a synthetic oil is sure to be
compounded of petrol, alcohol and benzol, or
something else. Meantime, no new oil fields are
being found, and old ones are becoming exhausted.
Petroleum is found in the rocks of every age, but
usually in the tertiary or permo-carboniferous. With
its vast beds of brown coal and enormous seams of
black coal, Australia is a likely place to look for oil
if the oil-looker will only go deep enough; 2500 ft.
is the average depth in California, and in the Cas-
pian Sea district in Russia many oU wells go below
2000 ft. One thousand miles of drilling has been
done at Baku; and 1940 wells, distributed over six
sq. miles of area, yield half the world’s supply of
petroleum. As a good deal of prospecting for petroleum
will be done all over Australia, from Darwin to Cole-
brook (Tas.), and from the Warren (alleged) oilfields
(W.A.) to Thursday Island (Q.), a few surface in-
dications may be here narrated without hurt. Cun-
ningham Craig, in the latest book on oil-finding,
states the chief surface indications for petroleum to
be: (1) Seepages of oil; (2) asphalt deposits; (3)
outbursts of gas from gas pools, mud volcanoes or
dry ground ; (4) outcrops of bituminous strata ; and
(5) veins of ozokerite or maujak. The rocks must
be anticlinal or saddle-reef in structure, and there
should be an impervious covering for the petroleum
such as lignite or kerosene shale. An always favor-
able indication is a show of oil, with strong gas, in
thin porous beds among impervious strata. Shows
of gas below or in a thick sandy series are usually
favorable, and sometimes petroleum exists below beds
of gypsum or rocksalt. Cunningham Craig, who is
a “topside” geologist, argues that petroleum usually
occurs in tertiary and is formed from the
remains of terrestrial vegetation, accumulated in
clays, sands or actual beds —that it is, in fact, of
purely vegetable origin.
* * * *
E.A.: No data whatever; the cos. in that
business carefully blend the results with the pro-
ceeds from other branches.... Small Investor: But
while vou could get a mortgage on the property for
5 or 6 p.c., you would have to nav 7 or 8 p.c. for a
loan on your life policy... .Glenelg: It is well
worth risking the further payments. In fact, we
doubt if there is very much (if any) risk about it. .. .
Invicta: Thanks; will inquire. .Bitten : Too loose and
vague. And what nonsense it is to put insurance
offices which cut up their profits among policy-hold-
ers in the same class as sugar and gas cos. 1
* * * *
Maoriland’s big mine, the Waihi, treated
14,752 short tons last month for £25,489, or about
one-third of the average value of the output three or
four years ago. The yield is now expected to aver-
age something over £25,000 per month, which should
afford a Is. dividend per quarter for at least five years
to come. Reserves are given as 750,634 tons; this
is irrespective of large quantities of ore left in arches
and pillars, but some of the latter will be expensive
to mine. The co. has had a glorious past. Its
dividends run to over £9 per share (more than
£4,500,000) from an output of about £10,250,000.
The end of big profits is, however, so plainly in
sight that the directors have been authorised to buy
another mine—when they can find it.


BROUGHT TO BAY
Are those enemies of civilisation, Indigestion and
Dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are
employed; Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
fleeringfs g 2 *
Co
op
e/?
en
j
1/
» at w
HEERIKfi
•>-r
fBWIB
TRIED A SAMPLE.
“Some years ago I was subject to biliousness, from
which I could get no relief,” says Mr. W. G. Miller,
grocer, Lindfield (N.S.W.). “I was given a sample
of Chamberlain’s Tablets, and in a few hours after
taking them all traces of biliousness were completely
gone. Whenever there has been a recurrence of the
trouble I have got immediate relief from Chamber-
lain’s Tablets.”*
WORLD
RENOWNED
BRAND
STUHR.
STUHR’S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEGROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMEN’S
LETTERS
Sydney. June 23, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Re Government House. The State Gov-
ernment has been upheld by the High Court
in the feat of chasing the Governor-General
out of N.S.W. One can only reflect that
Bumble was right. “The Law is a Hass.”
The gigantic legal brain of Chief Justice
Cullen and the gigantic mental wigs of the
High Court took exactly opposite views of
the legal side of a paltry squabble which
branded this State as an anti-Federal insti-
tution. Henceforth professors of the tin-
whistle and masters of the corned or pressed
sonata may gambol in the stable-conserva-
torium. A conservatorium in Sydney will have
the same effect which it achieves in every
new’ art centre. As soon as the pupils begin
to feel their fingers or their toes, or their
voice-box, a much-cadged-from general public
will be coerced, coaxed or threatened into
supplying funds to send them abroad. Also,
the small teachers will be more or less
crushed by a State subsidised institution for
which we are 50 years too young. There are
only so many overwhelming musical geniuses
per million people, and we haven’t two
million people yet.
Prince Edward Albert Christian John, etc.,
had a watery birthday in these parts. It
was about 14 degrees less muddy than his
parent’s recent holiday, so the picnic
basket was only half-full of rainfall this
week and was capable of being bailed out.
Mrs. Borron, who used to be. Miss
Buchanan, of M.L., is moored to this port
for a while. She’s one of the delicately
handsome semi-tropic looking women Aus-
tralasia is turning out by the bushel. In a
black gown with a swathe of ermine of the
tailless breed round her graceful shoulders,
she. fluttered into a revel the other afternoon
like the slim shade of some dark-browed
island beauty of a Becke romance.
Mr. Billy Angwin, Minister for Immigra-
tion, Charities, Health, etc. (W.A.), re-
cently left Sydney with a profound convic-
tion that it is the rainy end of Australia.
Twenty-five long years ago, the two feet of
Angwin trod this shore. It was then rain-
ing with enthusiasm, and there w'asn’t a
speck of dry land in the city. Since then,
the Westralian hasn’t been this way—till
he met our latest deluge. Next time he
comes, he proposes to bring along a pair of
web feet, as excess luggage. Minister
Angwin, by the way, is a one-time Mayor
of Fremantle, and he wore the gauds and
gold chain and rabbit-skin of office with
considerable success.
Little Aileen O’Donnell, of Mingay, Dar-
ling Point, is going to marry the extensive
cricketer, Warwick Armstrong. The course
of true love has been running smoothly for
quite 12 months, though the engagement
hasn’t been served up with shrimp sand-
wiches and musical items at our local
dames’ clubs. When the long W. Arm-
strong, who was one of the rebellious six,
takes his little Aileen home to Melbourne
(about the end of July), she’ll have to
climb on a hassock to pin a flower in his
button-hole o’ Monday mornings. She isn’t
exactly the size that has to stand on an
envelope to look over the top of twopence,
nor is he so tall that his head gets mixed
up with passing aeroplanes, still there is a
discrepancy in the dimensions of the pair.
One of these nice-looking O’Donnell girls
married Francis Shaw last year. He
whisked her off to Siam, where the corru-
gated iron laws of Anglo-Siamese etiquette
insist on a new bride calling, instead of
being called on. To break the hard frost
of this terrifying custom, pretty Mrs. Dolly
Shaw took a disengaged sister off with
her. Two callers are mightier than one, any
fine day. The Shaws trip back this way in
April.
Recent prize days in our more expensive
schools were served up with the usual
speeches—in small or large doses, as re-
quired. In the middle of last week the town
seethed with King’s School boys, who were
retiring by train, or steamer, from their
arduous labors, for five weeks’ rest and
literary contemplation.
The Sydney Girls’ C. of E. Grammar
School broke up with the blessing of the
boyish-looking Dean Talbot, the other
afternoon. His Partial Gaiters (you have
to rise to the rank of bishop to be a Whole
Gaiters), whose oratory moves along at the
rate of one mile per week or one snail per
century, or one tortoise now and then, re-
quested the young maidens present to grow
up like flowers. At this, the juvenile her-
bage, with its hair meekly folded off its
brow in ribbons, emitted a few audible
giggles. The retarded and backward pro-
gress of his Anglican Legs through a ream
■of Good Advice led to mild outbreaks of
■disorder in the shape of vawns and sighs
from the Young Person, who is too modern
to bear up under much Talbot on Ruskin.
Meanwhile, the learned principal, Miss Bad-
ham. inadvertently fanned herself with a
tennis racquet.
The Women’s Hospital (Crown-street)
has had a 'ong and bitter struggle to keep
the wolf out of its larder. That hungry
beast has howied so long on the doorstep,
and has got in so often through the key-
hole, that the committee stuffed cctton-
wool into its ears to keep out the uproar
For 12 months the matron has stiffened her
back and made believe the wolf was a large
subscription in disguise, fighting to take
possession of the premises. Bu f the day
came when the last vestige of lamb-like faith
in the bona fides of the lean animal had to
be hurriedly buried in the back yard. The
committee admitted that it was a poor
orphan, wailing under a debt of £7OOO. Who
would help? Hugh Ward has buckled on
his shining armor, and sworn to slay the
Beast with £3500. The other half of the
debt he has extracted, in promises (without
a surgical operation), from the Government.
Mrs. Mayoress Cocks is steering a shilling
fund to its temporary home in the muni-
cipal vaults, and the Little Theatre people
are hard at work on their original cash-
pursuing scheme. In a few weeks this long-
suffering Maternity Hospital may be solvent,
for the first time in its chequered career.
The Women’s Handicrafts’ Association
has not yet perished from the contemplation
of its internal weakness. It continues to
turn out very good needlework and very
bad art- —presumably because its judging
committee knows something about washing
and mangling and plain sewing, and nothing
about art, applied or misapplied. The Cullen
lady presided at the last annual kick —I
mean meeting—of the Handicrafts. Its best
friends can only hope that its members lis-
tened with both ears to her gentle hint that
work submitted must be up to a certain
standard. If this isn’t attended to within
the next few months, Lady King-Hall, who
has been a beneficent godmother to the As-
sociation, will have to send a wreath to
quite a nice funeral. The Handicrafts’ dance
will occur before this meets your penetrat-
ing glance.
The Hospice Ball had a fine night, which
crept by chance into the prevailing rainfall.
Cash results have not been added up to the
uttermost farthing as I write. However,
the committee —which included Mrs. William
Macleod (vice-president), Mrs. W. J. Adams
and Mrs. E. Murray (hon. treasurers), Mrs.
Packer, Mrs. P. Leahy and Mrs. Durack
(hon. secretaries), also Mrs. Deery and Mrs.
J. Barlow —has not grumbled audibly at any
lack of support. In a few days, the financial re-
sults will probably dribble through the mouth
of the wild animal we house in tame sub-
urban homes, under the meek disguise of
Telephone double x x x. The “Blue Bird”
youngsters gave a cheerfully inaudible (to
the galleries) minstrel show, for the thin
treble pipe of youth is lost amongst the Town
Hall echoes.
Vice-regal support stamped across the floor
in the manly boots of A.D.C. Ronald Forbes
and his Associate Help Talbot. The lat-
ter’s sleek coiffure causes so much
fierce - envy in the bosoms of the
wiry-haired Australian terriers who fre-
quent charity hops, that the priceless
secret of the Talbot pomade may be torn
from the owner some of these dark, wet
nights. The deed will be done in a back
street by a gentleman of the sandbag per-
suasion. Mrs. Ronald tripped into the
ballroom with this sub-regal party. The
party plunged forthwith into the dizzy vor-
tex of official Lancers. The Cullens were
drawn into the maelstrom, and the Majesty
of the Chief Justice stepped out with our
municipal mother, Mayoress Cocks, president
of the ball committee. A debutantes’ set
frisked round on a quiet corner, like young
lambs at play.
A woman teacher drops in with a fierce
glare in both eyes and a fever on her tongue
from much begging for her State-school eyrie
in the brick and mortar wilds of this
crowded city. “We, i.e., the teachers with
whom I come in contact, notice with consid-
erable indignation, the glittering sum which
the Minister for Instruction proposes to
spend on a Conservatorium for Music.
When the starved primary schools want any-
thing extra we are told there is no money.
We bear the heat and burden of the day—
but we don’t stand forth as an aesthetic
luxury. So, there is no monev. For in-
stance : All schools must possess a library
for the pupils. The Government being pre-
sumably unable to provide these luxuries,
we, the teachers, raise the money as best we
can. Generally we work up concerts for the
cause. Again, the elder girls must be taught
machining. Does the Government provide
sewing machines? Not so far as my experi-
ence goes. We. the teachers, must raise the
funds by bazaars or any other struggle we
can organise. When teachers fall ill from
overwork—as we often do —there is nothing
uncommon in those who are still able to
keep going having to take over the responsi-
bilities of the sick, and run a class of 60 or
more. When the windows are broken and the
rain beats in—as it has during the last few
weeks in more than one crowded city school
or courtyard—there seems to be no money
to repair the damage. Every big State school
in Sydney has enough clerical work to keep
a clerk occupied all the year round. There
is no money. In the intervals of cadging
and correcting the work of GO odd young-
sters, 1 try to do my duty to m; pupils. In
the evenings I do clerical toil and finish cor-
rections that the pressure of the day has left
undone Like many others of the rank and
file, I contrive to steal a whole 20 minutes
to ehc my lunch.”
The N.S.W. Ladies’ Golf Union week
dribbled through to a finish on the Rose
Bay Links the other afternoon. The weather
had been a mixed assortment and the play
was of the same speckled quality. Miss
Duret, the Manly girl who, with her part-
ner J. S. Marks, was victorious in the mixed
foursomes, finally went down for the Lathes
Singles N.S.W. Championship before the
prowess of Miss Boys. The latter is a ner-
vous player whose guff is usually much bet-
ter when only a caudie or a sparrow or two
are looking at her drives. Last week, how-
ever, she pulled herself together for the
battle of the links. She callously went to
the theatre the night before the Great Event.
Next day she snatched the championship
from the Manly girl at the end of a struggle
which was not up to the best form of either
goffer. Miss Purdie, the strenuous Orange
player, got away with the Country Cham-
pionship. Victor and vanquished, Miss Boys
and Miss Duret, won the Championship
Doubles. Before this reaches you, Ken-
sington links will quake under the tramp of
goffing ladies’ No. 7 boots in a mortal combat
for best score in the Coronatioh medal
match.
Nelson Illingworth has been bitten by the
song recital microbe (probably an escapee
from the Bispham knapsack) and threatens
to tempt Providence on July 1. St. James’s
Hall will be the place.
Lily Brayton’s eye for color generally
gloats on two softly-warring shades that
tone each other up. As Helena, in love
with Demetrius, she first flits through “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,” in drapery
that is like two sides of an apricot. The
warm, sun-kissed glow of one half, and the
paler canned-fruit tint that floats in a glass
dish, are used with cute effect in
Helena’s clothing, when she takes to
the bush. Another out-back toilet, in which
Helena sprints through a dense forest of
cardboard, or such, is worked out in two
shades of a half-ripe purple plum. These
ideas are worth jotting down. The fashion-
able ball dress, just now, is a harlequin
robe, in which one color furiously fights an-
other, while the lady inside looks like a
referee who has been trodden on by both com-
batants. Why not come to an amicable
agreement, and drape pigments that sit
down in peace together?
The American pocket Venus, Mabel
Tagliaferro, who was here a few years ago,
is said to be- coining something like £3OO a
week in the States. She is touring in
vaudeville in a sketch written by herself,
which runs to about 18 minutes. Mabel
was 19 or less when she performed in this
city. She is a mixture of Irish and Italian,
reared in the land of U.S. millionaires and
pumpkin pie. Mrs. Freddie Shipman, who
brings the news of the small beauty’s
weekly gold mine, insists that it is £3OO,
not dollars. She adds a firm postscript that
the said salary is cash in hand, not Central
American securities or Confederate bonds.
Mabel keeps the wolf another mile from her
doorstep by drawing an extra £lO a week as
royalty on her sketch. She is not likely
to live on bread and bacon rind if this liv-
ing wage, which works out at something
like £2 lOs. an hour right round the clock,
goes on as a steady job.
Mrs. Mayoress Cocks entertained the tre-
mendous Clara Butt and the rather less tre-
mendous Kennerley Rumford one afternoon
last week. The crowd invited to shake the
contralto’s impressive hand was several
sizes too large for the municipal nest in our
Town Hall. Traffic congested into a tight
block near the entrance, and formed an im-
movable wall of this season’s coats and
skirts. Against this w T all the late arrivals
were bumped by the pressure behind. In
their transit they fell up against any-
thing that impeded their progress. The
most bumped against was a lady in a raging
scarlet frock, ' who stood like a pillar-box
right in the track of the wrath to come.
Two well-groomed greys-—Mayor Cocks and
Town Clerk Nesbit —wedged their dove-
colored plumage into the crowd, which was
craning its neck to peer up at the Butt
millinery.
Ministers’ wives circled round the throng.
Mrs. Campbell Carmichael, Mrs. R. D. Hall
and Mrs. Trefl6 rose to the surface to breathe
now and again. The Holman pair came in
late —he bright-eyed and jubilant, she very
smart in brown, with her neck tucked up
in furs. Mrs. Tom Hughes, in smoke-grey,
was top-dressed with the plumes of a verv
fine ostrich. Little Mrs. Ernest Broughton’s
raven millinery was just visible behind a
Babel tower of tall women. The Austrian
traveller, Alice Schalek, contrived to keep
her arms in their sockets, though dragged
this way and that by curio hunters and such.
Organist Ernest Truman camped under the
leafy shade of a tubbed fern. The Pat
Nolans drifted into a quiet corner far from
the madding Butt-Rumford crowd. A hun-
dred or so sightseers remained rooted to the
floor, waiting for the Voice to become artieu
late, and pass the time of day.
The Butt voice can only be alluded to
with respect, as an Organ. On Saturday
niglit it rolled round the Town Hall like a
beautifully-modulated wind instrument with
its ft' stops (are there ft stops, by the way’")
in full working order. Discreet allusions
to the improvement in the contralto’s vocal
art have been drifting through the London
press for about two years. Sydney was
prepared for the best, and found it, when
Clara Butt opened her mouth in Handel’a
‘•Reudi’l Sereno.” s
The divine spark, or whatever you choose
to call it, is missing from the Butt tem-
perament. Yet she stands before the world
to-day as possibly the greatest contralto
on the concert platform. Kennerley itum-
ford, always delightful as an artist, seems
to be rather smaller in the size of his voice
than he was five years ago. Or perhaps his
light baritone follows too fast on the echo
of the great Bispham baritone, with its
fathoms deep bass notes stowed away some-
where under the American’s lower shirt-
stud. Rumford’s platform manner grows
colder, but he warmed his audience when
he trolled out the merry lay of St. John’s
Night. Fiddler Mowat Carter, a recently-
returned Australian, was a valuable addition
to the programme. Pianist William Mur-
doch was unable to appear at the first Butt
concert owing to the untimely grip of the
’flu’. Laurence Godfrey Smith took his place
at the piano. In spite of the inclemency of
the rain, which was very damp and perpen-
dicular, and filled the air with strange noises
suggestive of a cow kissing another cow un-
der a wet tree, a large audience worshipped
at the shrine of Butt.
The Nevin Tait management has dis-
covered what to do with the Town Hall
platform. This usually hideous waste of
bare boards had a handsome frontispiece of
trailing wistaria for the first Butt concert.
A trellis firmly nailed against the municipal
desert of unlovely wood supported long ten-
drils of white and purple paper bloom—a
crop large enough to tide over a small Jap.
festival. Arum lilies held up their heads
behind this beauteous foliage. When the
colossal Clara, gowned in some gossamer
drapery of creamy hue, with butterfly winged
effects that floated from her shoulders, got
behind this floral frontispiece, she made a
large tableau.
The Women’s Hospital matinee in Her
Majesty’s Theatre is to give the local public
the first glimpse of Lewis Waller —the idol
of the London matinee girl. Madge Tither-
adge will also smile across the footlights on
this occasion. Waller’s item is likely to be
a dramatic recitation, “The Picture,” one of
his favorite thrills. Whether you mop your
eyes, or feel your back hair slowly unpin it-
self with horror and stand on end under
your best hat. for this event, I don’t know.
Flo Young, Niblo and the Asche-Brayton
duet make up the strong meat of a varied
menu.
Doris Madden, who belongs to the semi-
vice-regal Melbourne clan, gave a piano
recital here last week. She is correctly
uninteresting and shows the same conscien-
tious desire to smite the right notes that
marked her performance in this city last
year. As a tone colorist Miss Madden
makes music that is pale drab.
Inspector Donald Fraser hammered at
one of his favorite topics the other evening.
“The Power and Place of Play in Child
Culture” was flung at the heads of a
crowded audience. A newly-formed Parents
and Citizens’ Association at Kensington
meekly imbibed the stirring sentiment that
a playground is better than a prison, and
much space for play more conducive to in-
fant brawn and muscle than a surgeon’s
knife, or something of the kind.
While the Baconites are getting into their
stride re the Shakspeare memorial fund,
another breathless argument attacks the
daily press. “Who discovered Australia?’
is the historic bone which has been picked
as bare as a fleshless hatpin. One thing is
certain : Cook was about 300 years too late
to enter for the Great Australian Discovery
Stakes.
“Bobby Burnit” at the “Little Theatre
gives Violet Paget several opoortunities to
change from one remarkable freak gown to
another. After an excess of violent color
schemes, the lady settles. down to be
merely good-looking in a w T hite frock with a
perfectly sane feather hat affixed to her
golden locks. The principal office-boy em-
ploved in Burnit’s Stores chews
through four acts, so I suppose he finds
himself in candy. The moral of Bobby
Burnit” is as clear as filtered water. l&e
noor (because he is/ honest) clerk. Dame
Johnston (Kay Souper) is. the shabbies
person in the play. Ilis priceless comme -
cial value is apparently worth about 4s. a
dav. in arrears.
The Boult benefit matinee will be housed
in the Criterion Theatre on Saturday after
noon. “Joan of Arc,” the original pie
mapped out for production, has been
voked to make w r ay for an act from rann -
First Play.” “The Lie Circumstantial
(which is the usual kind of lie) wall also
wedged into the entertainment.
Yours affectionate!v.
VANDORIAN.


u
'S'
T
'f r
J v*#*
-te-M-Zi
h* x
mm^cr
W5-V
c~z~-
■WmkJm
W/ r / 1
!i|mi
1
CT
w
.1
■""V
yrrr~*
: i'£ f -j?>
i
- '<•
1
"V
i
%
■ /
Kr>.
s^.
A
;<a
!i
4S*
'tfffaiiriSK
n
X
j -
*s^l
■f' #&
8»&
Kr
, , r;
*5
mm
o
&£
rev
L
tm
: (Y-
-£
* «.
■r
<s
S*
9%
v\
>s
■
R
-V'f
7X
:■-•■:
3*
Y&
i
Nl
jmm
■
■
f V
ro x>
© ro P
<4
Cobra, S6e Boot Polish
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Travels as
A tinker, too.
For an hour or so
He’ll stay
Mending kettles
By the way.
Hear the country
Children shout:
“ Bring your leaky
Tinware out!
“Hey! the COBRA
Tinker’s come,
Where’s the rusty
Kettle, mum?”


Smart and Distinctive.
"VICTOR” DINNER SUITS
Ready-to-Wear.
Farmer’s “Victor” Dinner Suits, Ready-to-Wear, are
faultless in fit, style and finish. They confer that smart,
distinctive appearance so much prized by all well-dressed
men.
“Victor” Dinner Suits are made in sizes for all figures,
from superior quality Black Dress Venetian, the coats having
Silk Facings, and Step or Roll Collars. Inspection invited in
the Men’s Clothing Section.
Price
When ordering by post, state chest, inside sleeve, waist,
and inside leg measurements.
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER’S, Sydney
i
<r
m
•ixjJ
The Cost
per Mile
for running your
Car, Motor Cycle
or Cycle is less
when you use • •••
DUNLOP
TYIIES
It’s the high quality of
rubber and fabric used
(and plenty of it) com-
bined with scientific
and thorough work-
manship that ensures
“Dunlop” users the
extra satisfaction that
makes them permanent
supporters of “Dunlop’
quality. That’s our
aim—to gain customers
and keep them.
Always specify Dunlop Tyres, it s
the cheapest in the long run.
All. AC.FNTS. GARAGES, &c.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
m
m
*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 23, 1013.
My Dear Yarrie,—
A large batch of the members of the
Fisher ex-Government lunched at the Orien-
tal, last week, and grew cheerful oyer
bumpers and speeches. They brought with
them members of the Pure Foods Commis-
sion, a®d the chef of the 'hotel did his
darndest for them. The defeated Govern-
ment has time for a pleasant meal, while the
successful Government is tearing its public
hair in the streets, and wondering how it
will make the portfolios go round.
The very tall Barttelot lady and the ab-
breviated G.-G. skate hand-in-hand daily at
the Glaciarium. Conversation is difficult,
but not impossible. When he makes a re-
mark with upturned face, she gracefully
inclines her head, and, if the grating of the
skates is not too loud, she actually hears it.
Her clear-toned remarks seem to drop down
to him quite easily.
The G.-G. will preside at a public meeting
in the Town Hall, on Monday evening, June
30. The object is to invoke financial aid for
St. Vincent’s Hospital. The State Govern-
ment has promised £2OOO, if the whole main-
tenance overdraft of the hospital is paid
off. The hat which is to be held out to the
public may be filled with £5500. The hospi-
tal hat is a much-worn article, and the won-
der is that the crown never falls out of it.
Dr. Mary Booth has already invaded sev-
eral professional spheres formerly sacred to
men-medicoes. Now, by way of taking a
holiday, she has gone to England as medical
officer on an Orient mailboat.
Mr. Pratt, ex-member of the Upper House,
and his wife celebrated their golden wedding
last week. The two married daughters, with
their respective trains, descended on Thorn-
bury, the East Melbourne house, and the
loud timbrel was sounded with tremendous
enthusiasm. The two girls were famed as
the best frockers in town during their un-
married days; and they have not gone back
on their proud dress reputations since matri-
mony befell them. Daughter Winifred, who
married Leonard Higgs, of Sydney, jour-
neyed all the way to the little reunion. The
second daughter, Mrs. Lindsay Inglis, mo-
tored down from her place at Romsey with a
load of good things for the feast. Clergyman
Spurr looked in on the proceedings, so a
small Inglis baby was relegated to the nur-
sery—possibly because it was too uproarious
for clerical society.
Matrimony is apparently beginning to
attract even the most seasoned and smoke-
dried of our bachelors. A member of the
Most Solemn Club (it is really a sort of
monastery), who has been regarded hereto-
fore as a hard case of celibacy, is sitting up
and taking notice. The gossips and social
skirmishers cannot make out whether he is
interested in mamma (an awfully fascinating
widow) or the flapper daughter (quite the
prettiest thing in this season’s buds). Though
it is only early winter, he is gaily dancing
attendance on the pair, and it is only too evi-
dent that his heart is beating time to a
spring song of (There it goes again!
One tender word, and my sentimental J nib
bursts into song as naturally as a black-
bird).
Mrs. Hugh Mclntosh, wife of the Tivoli
magnate, gave a tea-party at Menzies’ on
Friday. She and daughter Lily motored all
the way from Sydney. They are using the
flat over the Opera House as a camp or
starting-out point for long motor excursions
to Victorian beauty patches, during a visit
which is to last several weeks. Mrs. Mcln-
tosh, wearing much ermine trimming on an
opal-colored dress, poured tea in the gilded
Moorish room, while daughter Lily, in blue,
went round with an armful of violets for the
guests. Mrs. Brookes, with a foot-high mus-
tard plume in her hat, was dressed in fur.
Bellclair, the strong man—or one of the
strong men—took tea easily with one hand,
and a pretty wife smiled under a cute pink
feather. Dancer Mrs. Le Brun, who is re-
markably like Mrs. Bland Holt of 10 years
ago, displayed big bruises on elbow and arm,
when she pulled off her gloves to grapple with
cup and saucer. “Fresh ones every night,”
she commented ruefully. “Always bruise
when I do the Apache dance.”
The Grand Hotel has had itself redecor-
ated. The lounges are now a dream in gold
and cream. All the lights have acquired
amber shades, and the guests walk on cham-
pagne-colored carpets. It makes a very good
background for dark-haired girls, while
Titian beauties are in clover. Fair maidens
almost disappear from view. The fires shine
out of new frontages of amber tiles and cop-
per circles, the cat has a new ribbon round
its neck, and the hotel dog has been thor-
oughly washed, regardless of expense.
Hockey girls are in a social whirl just
now. Inter-State teams are expected for a
bashing tournament, and the Hockey Club
is skirmishing round to get the cash where-
with to entertain the visitors. The presi-
dent of the club is little Miss Clendinnen,
daughter of the X-ray doctor who has just
gone off to the British Medical Congress.
This brilliant-complexioned. sporting young
woman gave a dance, on Friday night, to help
the Cause; and Mrs. Watt is making a
“present” of a bridge party, at the South
Yarra Skating Rink, on Wednesday of next
week. Mrs. Burston and other Toorak head-
lights have booked tables. The hockey girls
have crowds of men followers, barrackers
and so forth; so the dance was well sup-
plied with partners. The Merton Hall
maidens (“old” girls and present pupils)
are the main strength of the hockeyists.
While practising hard they bemoan the
thoughtlessness of their best half-back, who
went and got appendicitis. Dr. Thwaites,
president of the Hockey Association, is also
out of action for the time being with a found-
ered nose (souvenir of the strenuous game).
And before acquiring that injury, the sport-
ing doctor got housemaid’s knee or some-
thing in a skating accident at the Ice Rink.
A meeting of the Council of the Victorian
Association of Ladies’ Benevolent Societies
(Don’t ask me to say that again!' has been
called in a nicely-modulated voice by the
president, Mrs. Warren Kerr. The func-
tion will be held or unveiled at an early
date. Besides the half-yearly report, the
proposed “business” is programmed as “Dis-
cussion on Maternity Bonus and Worthless
Husbands.” Gracious! I’m going to that
meeting! I had -intended going to “The
Worst Woman in the World” ; but that sort
of light mental refreshment can easily stand
over for a week or so.
From a woman who is no prude:—
Last night (17th) was my introduction to “Miss
Hook of Holland.” The ’Varsity hoodlums had
taken possession of the theatre, and the unfortunate
patrons who were unaware of the fact until too late
to change the night of their visit saw little of the
show, and heard less. The performance given by
the bounders themselves was absolutely puerile, but
that would be forgiven if they had kept quiet when
the curtain was raised on “Hook.” They swarmed
in the gallery, and their inane witticisms consisted
of hanging skeleton hands, stuffed stockings and flags
of their orders (or disorders) over the gallery rails ;
also, they let down reams of sanitary paper, which
fluttered in festoons and flapped round the heads of
many females in the dress circle. I could not help
contrasting the behavior of our students with that
of French students. However rowdy—and to our
ears obscene —the songs and jokes of the Quartier
Latin before the rising of the curtain, there is in
Paris an instantaneous hush directly the knocker
gives the three taps on the proscenium door which
ushers in the night’s performance. The noise cer-
tainly recommences during the intervals, but the
actors are not obliged to bawl themselves hoarse in
their endeavors to be heard. Last night each time a
performer appeared a shout went up, “Take off that
hat”; and when Slinks tried to get a hearing by
removing his tile, the roar again arose, “Put on
that hat.” Higginson was greeted with “Lolly legs”
and “ifiggy can’t help his legs.” Worst of all, the
bounders chipped into Sally Hook’s and Mina’s songs,
not to help with the chorus, but with catcalls and
cries of “Pretty Joey,” while they obligingly took
. the top notes with the singers. Altogether, the dis-
play of larrikinism was a disgrace to the William-
son management, and a still greater reproach to the
University. No push of working men would be
allowed to so upset a performance. Why, in the
name of reason, allow our “uppah classes” to be
hogs and coarse beasts?
Seven understudies have been chosen from
Melbourne’s smartest dancing girls, and are
being carefuly drilled by Genee’s foreign bal-
let master—an important gentleman who
would otherwise charge about a dollar a step
for tuition. The lucky girls are to have
places in the general ballet, and will act as
a reserve in case of sickness or accident.
They are feeling as charitable as possible
under the tantalising circumstances, and are
meanwhile storing up valuable knowledge.
The new pupils declare the shoes imported
by the Russians for toe-dancing to be “the
easiest snap.” The hardy Australians have
been used to toe-dancing with no more than
a bit of wadding in the shoes to prevent
blisters. The Russian shoes have the toes
blocked hard enough to practically make a
firm toe-platform. “Oh, it’s easy!” say, the
joyous Australian girls. They have ha’pen-
nies sewn against the insteps of their shoes
for the clatter in castenet dancing. The
ballet master makes them hang from hori-
zontal bars, and practise their steps off the
ground. Gen€e, unlike most stars, seems to
be an even-tempered woman. At rehearsal,
the other day, whilst practising a dance
which ends with her sinking into a chair,
something happened to the property chair
and she had a fall. Fortunately, she was
not hurt either in body or spirit. She passed
off the unfortunate happening quite pleas-
antly, and nobody was beheaded.
Gende is something quite new to Australia.
Her entertainment flits from one surprise to
another, and one realises that no advance
booming could spoil it. The best toe-dancing
we have seen hitherto could not make one
realise that Genee would use her feet as flex-
ibly as Paderewski uses his hands. This
supreme artist dances almost on air, with
toes pointed straight down like a winged
thing uncertain of real flight. When you can
wrench your eyes off her fluttering feet, you
discover her adorable back. It is dimpled,
and smooth, and straight and supple; and
each dress obligingly opens in a V to some-
where near the waist line, so that you can
gaze on its beauty. G.-G. Denman strained
the loyalty of all the first-nighters by keep-
ing them waiting for this vision. The very
latest Society rustlers had jangled their way
to their seats ; the managerial chiefs clus-
tered miserably together; the curtain waved
impatiently; and big Glaser, in the centre
of his orchestra, gripped his baton tensely.
The G.-G., very well decorated —or ordered—
entered at last, followed by Mrs. Secretary
Guise. This lady—whose beautiful toilette
may have caused the delay—was garbed
completely in brown. Her heaped-up coils of
jet-black hair contrasted finely with her cos-
tume. Guise, tall and distrait, wandered
along behind. When they were settled, and
“Gorsave” had rattled its dreary last, crash
went the wild Slavonic music, and the show
started with a bound.
Volinin, the man dancer, wears a skimpy
grey silk shirt, and nothing else except pink
fleshings. He takes high leaps as lightly as
the most expert footballer, and should please
the sporting and athletic element in the audi-
ences. That dreamy dancer, Halina Sehmoltz.
dressed in swan plumage, and fluttering
through Saint Saens’ Swan Song music in a
chastened limelight beam, caused a sudden
homely outburst from : a heavily-jewelled
society heavyweight. "Isn’t she just like our
big white chook'r” gurgled the unfortunate
lady. Half-a-dozen .young Australiennes,
arrayed in pink bodices and tulle ballet
skirts, form a nimble background for Genee.
The delicious'spectacle is really made up of
one part Genee and six parts Genee Brenan.
The star gave the girls affectionate pats on
the back at the finale. She is amazed at
their lightning adaptability.
The audience was in—or out of —its very
best clothes, and had on all its alleged dia-
monds. There were plenty of men in the
stalls, and they gazed searchingly through
opera-glasses. The Russian ballet people
wear abbreviated skirts, apparently bare
knees, baggy Russian boots and masses of
multicolored ribbons.
Genee has a peculiar superstition. She
thinks things will go all right on a first
night if someone kicks her before the per-
formance. On Saturday her dresser per-
formed the desired rite, and Manager Ward,
over from Sydney, seconded the effort with
am invitation kick. As may be imagined,
it would not have sent a football very far.
But it was effective. Genee had something
like a record first night. And, by the way,
people would be willing to applaud her just
to see her bow, for the Genee bow is a de-
light in itself.
Singer Bispham. now at the Auditorium,
has a repertoire of 40 operas, 150 oratorios,
and 1500 songs (French, English, German
and Italian), and is liable to add
to it at any minute. It is five or
six years since he relinquished opera
work. He has sung at Covent Garden, New
York Metropolitan Opera House, and good-
ness knows where else, but certainly never
on the Manly boat. Liza Lehmann wrote
the opera “The Vicar of Wakefield” for him,
and he produced it in London, at the Prince
of Wales’s Theatre. Even during his opera
singing days, Bispham regularly sandwiched
•concert work with his opera engagements—a
thing few opera singers could do or would
attempt. But David, apparently, was too full
of song to keep silent for more than a minute
or two. He says he wouldn’t mind train trav-
elling in Australia if Johnson and other
people would only heat the carriages. Mrs.
Bispham stayed in New York, instead of
coming out to this country. The similarity
of the names Bispham and Shipman some-
times make things mildly embarrassing for
Manager Shipman’s pretty wife, who finds
she is often credited with the wrong hus-
band. Much of this harmless confusion
might have been saved if Mrs. Bispham had
come out to cool her heels in Australia’s
frosty railway carriages—which aren’t really
frosty. For the really Arctic railway car-
riage, go to England.
“Manny” Phillips Fox, slimmer than of
yore, is standing round at the Athenaeum
Gallery, watching his pictures develop the
buyer’s spot. The artist is carrying about
a damaged nose, and the daub of white
sticking plaster is not nearly so artistic as
the show, which shouts in all color keys.
Even a picture with the restfully subdued
title of “Rocks at Evening” has as much
brightness in it as a blazing blue mid-
'summer’s noon. “The Green Parasol,” ob-
viously a summer theme, yells melodiously
in all the primary colors. There is much
nude figure, or rather many repetitions of
the same red-haired woman, painted in all
poses and all sizes of canvas. This lightest-
hearted of ex-Australian artists evidently
chose a model who refused to pose out of the
warm sunshine, for in every picture she is
mottled with shining patches of light.
But although two or three of the “out-
door” nudes are charming in their pose and
their surroundings, it is,not in such work
that festive Phillips Fox is at his very best.
The painting of the textiles in his full-
dressed women figures, the daring light color
schemes, and the feelitfg' ‘of happiness that
he puts into his subjects are the trade-
marks of P.F. It ddes one good to be
among his canvases. “The" Terrace,” “The
Arbor,” “Lamplight,” “The Ferry,” “De-
jeuner” and “Bathing HouF’ are the finest
and largest of the paintings he has hung in
the Paris Salon since the first time —five
years ago—that he returned to Australia,
bringing his clever little wife with him.
There are dozens of smaller things—mostly
landscapes and rainscapes—in the collection
of 70 all told. The most appealing of the
little ’uns, such as “The Blue Shutters”
(49) were snapped up almost as soon as the
show opened. It has another week or so to
run, and then the artist gets to work on
his Melbourne commissions, including the
“national” portrait of ex-Prime Minister
Fisher. Not before October will Phillips
Fox got his brilliant exhibition under Syd-
ney observation.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Mrs. Peter Wood gave a dance at Burnside on Fri-
dav a species of hurral> or- hallelujah celebration in
honor of the debut of her second daughter. She wore
grey, with Oriental embroideries; and her eldest
daughter gyrated alluringly in a French-inspired
dress of cream, with touches of palest pink and blue
at the hem and the knees. The heroine of the even-
ing wore white, as becomes one in her position.
Quite a number of debutantes. took their first leap
or dive into the social maelstrom at the University
Ball. They appeared thoroughlv cheery, though the
undertakensh colors of the learning foundrv (black
and white) give a macabre appearance to anv room
m which they predominate. Among the ‘acting-
hostesses were Mrs. Stirling, Mrs. A. E. Nott and
Mrs. Gavin Gardiner. A tour of the South-East kept
the Bosanquets away, and the influenza menace was
to blame for the absence of the Ways. As a set-off
against these catastrophes, the John Downers were
there, and Mayor Bonython and his smart wife.
St. Peter s Church at Glenelg requires a new or a
repaired organ, so what more natural than that Mrs
M alter Duffield, Mrs. B. Either, Mr. Guy Stirling
and Mr Packard should organise a Subscription Ball
in aid of the good cause? Mr. Stirling, who hks had
the St. Peter’s choir under his wing, or his eye, for
some time, reports that tickets are selling well.
The Fred Downers are hack from their <jva
in 0 "™ tW ? thlngs thal *ruck them mo« w, ey
the Blue Mountains and the rain. The rain \ ?
them more than the Mountains; also W
could do with a little of your
over here. The gardens are blighted, and C
slain the vegetables; lambs threaten to be
meat promises to be dear; and Chao« mav '
at any moment. • tra nspire
An amateur co. has been plavine
the Royal for a whole week. The acting
dressing and mounting are all good.
Payne and Mu* Jones, as leading ladies wear i? let
picturesque frocks, especially in the second a« when
Miss Payne appears in a dress of rose-sprigged
eta over white satin. Ws&i taff.
. Mr |- Clara Butt wore a splendiferous garment
ner final concert on Mondav. It was an fn at
shade of blue, something between turquoise ancUkv'
blue, aggravated by a faint suggestion of the new
shade known as pugilists eye. The draped skirt™
caught by a cluster of autumn leaves
great design. Mrs. Frank Downer Mrs 8 \V *
Magarey Mrs. Rymil and her daughter. Mrs. J r
Baker, Mrs. A. McCulloch, and Mrs. J E m,- '
Smith were amongst those who gazed upon the Ton~
fection in the intervals of listening tn the Voice
Mrs. Jessop gave a dance on Tuesdav n ght
the revellers were Mrs. W. Law Smith, Mis Dunci?
Miss X. Law Smith, Miss Gordon and Mis- MeMillJ’
On Saturday the Hunt Club pursued the fleet ami
furious aniseed at Reynella. Members, and other-
were bidden to tea later by Mr. and Miss Revnell'
Among the roadsters were Mr. and Mrs. C T ' Har’
grave, the R. A. Sanders, the M. S. Hawkers Mr
and Mrs. C. T. Bray and Miss Madge Stirling’ the
Duncans, the George Bagots and Dr. and Mrs. j *
G. Hamilton.
Mr. W. E. Dalton died suddenly on Thursday. He
was an accountant and a well-liked citizen.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


IMPERIAL"
WHISKY
A\*r
CO\2
a
V\
(Y) „ '•***_ /3d
r *E FINES''
'/&
AjV^-
BEF*?3
(®4i
'ini?
mu
v. .1
v
‘Ntorff? 18
<S
&Nt>
%T)
C Q nS
BY
&
ewar
lr * Perth.*
0^
lON
*e>
A


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
... is ...
A CAREFULLY SELECTED, CHOICE, HIGH-CLASS
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Well Matured.
Unvarying Excellence.
Superb Flavor
Perfect Purity
CRAWFORD’S is supplied to all the leading Clubs and Hotels
throughout the World, and is recognised by Connoisseurs as the
Standard of Perfect Production.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Andrew Fisher has resigned, and Cook's
woes as Prime Minister have commenced.
His first trouble lies in being called Cook —
especially Joseph Cook. Compared with big
upstanding designations like George Richard
I)ibbs. or Robert George Wyndham Her-
bert. or Charles Cameron Kingston, the
name sounds almost niggling. Then Joseph
wants (11 some device for making the port-
folios go round, for John Forrest, who has
twice the feet and three times the tramp-
ling power of his alleged chief, has to be
placated, along witb his direct followers;
(2) some scheme for making his chronic
absentees more punctual: (31 25 barmaids
who will elope with the overwhelming
Labor majority in the Senate: (4) an ex-
cuse for a double dissolution: (51 a policy
which won't be retrograde, he having pro-
mised not to repeal what his opponents have
done (he couldn't anyway), and which
won't be progressive, he having constantly
denounced his opponents for going too fast
and doing too much: (61 a good hair-
restorer. all this anguish being bad for the
thatch.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The laving of thin-shelled charges, fol-
lowed by continuous cackling, has become a
hobby with the AKGtrs since the Federal
elections. Probably the most freakisn
effort was that concerning the man who
“voted nineteen times,” and whose name and
address were alleged to be “known.” Who
knew, or knows, is apparently known to
no one; for. if anybody knows, nobody says.
What public duty demands is the giving of
the nineteener's name and number to the
electoral authorities, the holding of an im-
mediate court-martial, and the shooting
dead of the offender (if any! with a fine
of £5O. or whatever the law allows.
[Frank Hextt, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
Boston (U.S.A.) last week celebrated the
anniversary of the battle that h«"nened on
Bunker’s Hill, in 17i5 and ex-President
Roosevelt delivered an address in which he
set forth that Uncle Sam hadn't lost his
punch. He certainly hasn't, but there is
something humorous about the idea of hold-
ing an anniversary burst on account of Bun-
ker’s Hill, where 5000 Americans, occupying
a position which looked almost impregnable,
were stormed on the upgrade by a British
force not much more than half as numerous,
and chased into the horizon.
The Cook party, having secured its
eminently unsafe Federal job. has now a
great possibility ahead of it. Some of the
statements it made during the campaign
about alleged roll-stuffing, corruption, per-
sonation and other crimes were tremendous.
It should be worth while to appoint a com-
mission of inquiry in each State. If even
half the allegations can be proved this coun-
try will require at least six new Judges and
12 nice fresh gaols.
[James Edmond. The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The closing down of the Commonwealth
Oil Co. signifies that two whole N.S.W.
townships will lose their job in one act.
Incidentally a little more money will go out
of Australia to feed the Standard Oil Trust.
Meanwhile the semi-Foreign-trade Federal
Labor party is still waiting for the New
Protection. And when it comes, if ex-
Attorney-General Hughes has his way. it
will probably amount to about 5 per cent.
rJames Edmond. The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
A Wagga (N.S.W.) farmer who was
lately dragged backwards by the leg through
the thorn-bushes of misfortune, and placed
before the court on a charge of
keeping his son away from military train-
ing. explained that the youth was absent
because he had been toiling 16 hours a
day in the dairy business. The anti-milit-
arists might make a note of this case. Six-
teen hours a day of compulsory cow-struggle
is really more tyrannical than an hour or
two’s drill. Further, it causes a stoop in
the back and a shambling of the legs, while
drill teaches a youth to stand straight up
and look a trifle like God's own image.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Thank Heaven the N.S.W. Liberals
haven't got a “machine” like the Labor
party. No fetters for them ! The acres of
bills that are posted over the country
announcing that Mc-Parritch or Skivins is a
candidate for selection in the Liberal inter-
est. and inviting all hands to collar the
Liberal machine in his interests —these are
mere matters of form, or jokes, At
Drummoyne. for instance. Splintery. Woqd:
(Wade’s deputy) and McLinen
possible ouster) are yelling their own. virtues
and claims into the ears of the local Liberal ;
and to the disgust of both of them the local
Liberal seems at present inclined to lend
his ear and ultimately collar the machine on
behalf of a third party who knows all the
local drains and culverts.
Woman is getting to be the equal of man
for a certainty. One of her has been
arrested at Perth (W.A.) for deserting her
husband.
A QUESTION OF PROCEDURE.
Mr. Cook and Mr Fisher should come to some working arrangement and deal with the tariff.
— Someone's hopeful suggestion.
Each ( to the other , not too amiably ): “ Well
THE SMALL ANIGHT AND THE BIG HORSE AND THE LARGE TRORLEMA.
Two additions have just been made to the
cost of living in X.S.M.. neither of which
can be set down to Protection. Butter has
gone up so high that it suggests the cow
that jumped over the moon, and railway
fares have been raised. Xow X.S.W., even
under the most complete Freetrade system,
would be hardly likely to import butter from
London: and it certainly wouldn’t import
railway fares. Therefore it seems that the
curse of Protection must be acquitted this
time.
INSIDE—AND OUTSIDE.
....It is this which justifies the assumption that
the cup of office-sweets will be drained to the deepest
dregs before the Government allows the people as
chance of stopping the illicit orgie. —Tory paper.
THE STRENUOUS AND VIRTUOS REFORMER
“ Yah! Come outer that , jer low-dawn
drunken beer-sparrer!
William McMillan, who wants to bo the
Liberal candidate for the new Drummoyne
seat in the X.S.W. Assembly, told a public
meeting there the other night that McGowen
has not grown during the last 20 years. If
it is true it is bad enough : but how much
worse the case of who has shrunk
to one-tenth the size he was when the
Chamber of Commerce sent him into X.S.W.
Parliament to keep l’arkes straight I
It looks as though Fielding, one of Vic-
toria’s newest Labor M’s.L.C.. will have to
stand outside the bar. The Constitution
stipulates for at least 10 years naturalisa-
tion for intending Fats; and Fielding, who
was born in the U.S.A.. was naturalised
only in 1910. Xow that he has been in-
formally declared to be unqualified, nobody
seems to be much further ahead. Minister
Edgar, whom he defeated, says it is not for
him to act. The Elections and Qualifica-
tions Committee, which may possibly meet
some day, may act if the matter is brought
before it. If it isn't it may just do nothing.
Fielding may resign; on the other hand, he
may do nothing. If he does resign nobody
seems to be able to issue a new writ, and
nobody seems to know for sure whether a
new writ would be needed, as Edgar might
be considered to have won the seat. Pre-
sident Davies is. of course, on deck, but he
lately expired by effluxion of time, so to
speak, and though he was re-elected unop-
posed he hasn’t as yet been chosen President.
There is no President. It is an untidy busi-
ness whichever way you look at it —but it
doesn’t really matter.
It almost looks as if a time will come
when the pompous merchants and proud
bagmen of Strathfield and Burwood will go
to business in a truck with their families
running behind and shoving the vehicle.
Johnson says that the Clyde and Eveleigh
workshops were expected to build 75 loco-
motives per annum for the X.S.W. rail-
ways, but they build only 40. The Govern-
ment hasn't established new workshops, nor
has it enlarged or accelerated the old ones.
Johnson is shouting in its ear for the im-
portation of SO new locomotives, but (1)
the loan money has about given out;
(2) most of the accounts are overdrawn;
(31 there is a deficit already; (4 1 the once
big annual railway surplus has practically
vanished; (5) the Government doesn't want
to incur further unpopularity by sending
more work abroad: and (61 it has been
busy re-constructing. So nothing has hap-
pened up to time of writing save much
wear and tear of Johnson's voice and the
Ministry’s ear. Johnson is also shouting
for more trucks, but that is the Ministry's
other ear.
Of a last screech :
Kink O'Malley's final coc-k-crow before relinquish-
ing office took the form of an edition de lx\e in the
way of official reports, entitled “Schedule No. 14.”
This volume, which purports to be a record of the
doings of the Department of which the silt-spurred
Rooster was in charge, is profusely illustrated on
superior glazed paper. There are photos, of George
V. and h_s consort, of Federal and State Grvtrnors
and Ministers, of members of the Senate and House
of Reps., past and present, and panoramic view,
(each about 3ft. long) of the various capitals. The
press is represented by 22 photographs of reporters
and others who have interviewed the Grand Master
of the Tiger-Lily Church. Photos, are also supplied
of more or less prominent British. Yankee. Maori-
Tand, Canadan and S’African Parliamentarians, who
have nothing to do with the case. Also, on page 35.
the student in search of enlightenment as to the
operations of the Home Affairs Department is con-
fronted with the familiar faces of Roberts. Kit-
chener and Alverstone. Britain's boss Judge, on
page 36 various other flowers that bloom in the
soring are to be met with, including Champ Clarke
(C.S.A.), Cohen (Melbourne Trades Hall). C. G.
"Wade (V.C.), and one Edward O'Malley (described as
“ex-Attorney-General, New York”). There is a fur-
ther large and varied collection of pretty pictures,
including one of Brother Chinn (p. 21) and others
too humorous to mention : but the attractiveness of
the volume is lessened by the absence of theatrical
photos., and the fact that views of the Post Office
clock at Geelong, and of the Maharajah of Tikari
are not included. Likewise the earnest searcher tails
to discover the portrait of the Akhoond of Swat.
Their absence detracts front- the merit of an other-
wise excellent outbreak of gilt-spurred rx-sterine.
The theory of the man whose name is
hanging underneath: —
As a Professor of Theory, with honors in Political
Metaphysics, I believe democrats are being spo led
by democracy. Many people are now voting “Lib-
eral" who a few years ago voted Labor: on the other
hand, many of the present supporters of Labor were
anti-Laborites a short time back. A student of
Political Metaphysics does not find the*? phenomena
difficult to explain. For one thing, decently educated
people are overcoming their snobbish mctrust of
Labor, so that nowadays most th'nking citizens who
have kept in touch with present-dav liters:’-;re are
democrats, and often avowed Socialists. On the
other hand, the Labor party, by helping certain
manual toilers to obtain decent wages and acquire a
“stake in the country." is converting ignorant De-
mocrats into ignorant Tories. When_ Laborite 811
Smith's wages are bumped up from 355. to /- ■
per week. Bill buys tailor-mades instead ot slops,
acquires a new dignity and a walking-stick for bun-
day use, reads the Anars assiduous!v. and in tun
becomes William Sm : th. a good “Liberal, who
imagines that he must stand shoul .fr to stouk
with the boss in an endeavor to keep down the an
gerous 30-bob-a-week mob. who possess nri ’J’ er .
walking-stick nor a stake in the country.
why I prophesy that when a sufficiently large nunioer
of toilers are earning £ 4 a week and upward, la
will be less powerful than it is to-day. " '
democratic party nothing fails like success,
it gains an important objective, it loses a
fighting cry and a number of unthinking ame r -
with whom to be minus a cry is to be m ® a .'
[Albert Johx Owes, 129 Grey-street. East Mel-
bourne.]
THE W.N.L.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It would be hard to over-estimate the value of the
work done in the Federal election campaign by the
Australian Women's National League. It has risen
superior to misrepresentation, slander, abuse and
ridicule, and has come to be recognised as the most
formidable organisation opposed to the Socialistic
Labor party in the Commonwealth to-day.—Mel-
bourne Argus, which strenuously opposed the enfran-
chisement of women, and desired to keep them on a
level, politically, with cows.
Armed with a bundle of pamphlets, with brolly and
thick golosh,
We fearlessly go to battle, to strangle the monster
Soshl’
We jump on its hateful carcase, we stab at it, k.ck
and league!
Ha! they considered us harmless once,
g£t ns mere feminine noodles once,
Even mistook us for ladies once —
We of the Wimmen's League:
They reckoned that we were useless, but now to At
Homes they flock ;
Each ‘’Liberal" seeks our blessing, and prays where
he used to mock !
For they all of them need assistance —Taffy and Scot
and Teague—
And so they all come to our tea-fights now,
Flatter us, fawn on us, please us now,
Act as though we were important now—
We of the Wimmen's League!
For any old yarn about marriage, burst bonds and
that kind of thing.
Free love, and the Home uprooted, designs on the
Throne and King.
They crave our co-operat'on. We labor without
fatigue,
For these are the yams we know the best,
The foolish old tales we tell the best,
Yes, these are the lies we love the best —
We of the Wimmen’s League !
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne.]


A little Petrol and a little oil.
Keep your engine cool and clean.
The man who uses
Pratt’s Spirit and
Gargoyle Mobiloil
is working a splendid team.
Car
Gossip
If you are in doubt, drop us a
card, or telephone Central 3413,
and we will send our Carburetter
and Lubrication Expert to see you.
It won’t cost you anything but the
asking, and we will be pleased.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
George Street, Sydney.
r
The ONLY
Patent Leather
with a Guarantee
“BURROJAPS”
per 32/6 PAIR '
(Postage 1/- Extra.)
Patent Burrojap vamp and
golosh. Dull-kid leg. Derby
fronts, straight toe-cap. The
new “ recede ” toe ensures
perfect ease and particularly
smart appearance. The Non-
slip Heel is a most useful
safeguard.
WE WILL REPLACE any pair
of these Burrojap Boots, if the
vamp break through before the
first sole is worn out*
A Truly Striking Innovation,
unique in the history of the
trade*
No risk —no disappointment* Just
perfect satisfaction —guaranteed*
The Guarantee is Printed on Each Box.
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
House Painters’ Books
There are useful books here both for the amateur and
the professional painter. If you fancy a book in this list
we'll help you. Write us and we will tell you more about
it before you buy.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPOT,
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
Kmnfr Home Gnematogbaph
a
Srio§s/Aenori/
/myo//r </rdw/)sroom ”
11 ly
% ». i "S? | cf» ’ ! *^y
_■ =. ii=
Booklet and
Pull
Particulars
of Machine
and Picture
Films are
sent free.
Use Coupon
Below.
No matter where your drawing-room is—in the centre of a city, in the suburbs
equaf advantage— Untry ’ thc Path 4 Cinematograph can be used with
MAKES ITS OWN LIGHT
lathe Home Cmematogiaph, which is found in no other cinematograph, but which
is absolutely essential to success in Home Cinematography.
Another important feature is that the
PICTURE FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
T hey will not burn in any circumstances. This fact, in conjunction with the safe
method of light production, eliminates entirely any danger from fire —a fact recotr-
msed by aH the fire insurance companies of Victoria, who make no extra charge if a
Fathe Home Cinematograph is in the house.
Consider these points carefully. The closer you examine the Pathe Home
Cinematograph and its advantages, the more you will appreciate its utility its
strength, its educative influence, its success as a home entertainer, and its absolute
sdiciy•
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful Home Entertainer
Send this coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Building's,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
HOME CINEMATOGRAPH & AGENCIES PTY.
LTD., 48 Queen Street, Melbourne;
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLING & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO.. 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTONS (N.Z.) LTD.,42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z. ; HARRINCTONS
(N.Z.) LTD., Queen Street, Auckland, N Z. ;
W. PARK, Stationer, Palmerston North,
N.Z. ; G. R. FOREMAN & CO., Napier, N.Z.;
WILKINS & FIELD HARDWARE CO. LTD.,
Nelson, New Zealand.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY.
Please send me particulars of Pathi's
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address
27.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
ft
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices: Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
DIABETES.
This highly dangerous disease will in its earlier
stages be remedied by prompt treatment with Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills. Take them in time. Price,
Is. fid. and 2s. fid. Obtainable everywhere.*
In his new novel, “Betty Wayside" (publication
of which begins in the July Lone Hand), Louis
Stone maintains the high standard atttained in his
former novel, “Jonah.” “Betty Wayside” will prove
to be one of the best novels yet published in Aus-
tralia, and no one should miss reading it.*
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
INDIGESTION.
WARDED OFF BY A DOSE OF DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ' ROOT PILLS
AT BEDTIME. STATES WEST
LEICHHARDT RESIDENT.
Mrs. Eveline E. Craig, cr. Wharf-road
and Perry-street, West Leichhardt, writes:
“Having taken Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for the relief of Indigestion, from
which I have suffered for some years. I
have pleasure in stating they seem to ward
off any attack, as I have found on the
slightest symptoms appearing, one or two
pills at bedtime release me from further
trouble. My family of four children at
times find them effective, especially is this
the case with the elder boy. I recommend
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to my friends,
and cannot speak too highly of iou
have my permission to use this letter.”*
Tenders. „
MUNICIPALITY OF ALBURY, N.S.W.
Loan for Electricity Works under Local
Government Act, 1906-7-8.
£10,500 at 4 U per cent, per annum, in
£5O Debentures.
'RENDERS will be received at the Town Hall.
-*- Albury, for the whole or any portion ot t
above loan up to 4 p.m. on July 1, 1913.
No tender below par will be entertained.
Prospectus stating conditions of retirement 011o 1 1
bentures, etc., and Tender Forms may be ontai
on application. A. R. DORE, Town ClerK.
Town Hall, Albury, June 6, 1913. _
Missing Friends.
■T7I? ILL MR. FREDERICK WILLIAM
IT ST. VINCENT STREET, formerly
of Brisbane, please communicate wit
Atthow & McGregor, Solicitors. Brisbane^
DATRICK MOLLOY, Deceased.— lnformation is re-
' quired bv the undersigned as regard-
address of MRS. MOLLOY, formerly of Hughenoe >
the widow of THOMAS MOLLOY, or the children f
the said Thomas Mollov. B. J. BEIRM-. So , '
Toowoomba, Executor Estate Patrick Molloj
gROWNE. —Information is as^
to GEORGE
CIA/ 1A liiiuiiiiauuu jo * . . , j. Thg
KENNY BROWNE, who formerly lived jd ■>
Crescent, Clontarf, Dublin, Ireland, was att
in the Cape Mounted Police, and later m
ville and Nelson, Australia. REPIA to An
GEORGE JOYCE, Solicitor, 121 Stephens Green,
Dublin. Ireland.
DRADY, CHRISTINA, daughter of late JAMES
D CHRISTINA BRADY, of Dublin, last hear
January 8, 1877, at Logan Village Hotel, Q ueen * a ’
afterwards understood to be at Queen’s Hote ,
ville, Queensland, will hear something to er a
tage by communicating with her sister,
MRS. ANNE COEN (nee Bradyb
Tenterfield, N.S.W*
Any friend of hers please communicate.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Friday night in Sydney was wet, and on
Saturday morning it rained, with brief spells be-
tween rhe showers, so when the Maoriland League
team faced the serried 13 of N.S.W., the ground
was so ti.oroughly saturated that there was no reason
to hesitate about grassing the other leiiow hard.
The Maoriland team was reinforced by P. Williams,
sometime of Auckland, who had arrived during the
week, after serving three years with a British
Northern Union club. He was a tower of strength ;
also, he was elusive; likewise, he was omnipresent;
and, moreover, he was fast as lightning, and sharp
as a needle. In addition, he stung like an adder.
Maoriland played with the wind behind it, and
N.S.W. made a brave beginning—in fact, the begin-
ning was the only good play that N.S.W. did that
afternoon. Every time the home team threatened
to do something some fool would get offside, and the
consequent penalty kick got Maoriland out of tight
places again and again. It was lfwerson’s off-day
as kicker. Had he been in proper form the score in
the first quarter-hour would have been about:
Maoriland, eight; N.S.W., nil. Having done their
best to lose the game by off-side play, the N.S.W.
men then chucked their combination overboard, with
the result that Maoriland promptly burst through and
scored a try, which Ifwerson failed to convert. Then
the Blacks "took charge of the scrums and did as they
liked, but failed to score till Ifwerson suddenly got
his hind leg into good working order and kicked an
amazing goal from just inside the half line. Here-
abouts N.S.W. woke up, and for a time played almost
brilliantly. But it was only a flash, and in a few
minutes the Blues were tumbling around hideously,
getting off-side on every possible occasion, and doing
those things they ought not to have done all the time.
The only redeeming feature was the tackling. That
certainly was good when it was done in the right place
and at the right time. Somehow the Blues blundered
over the line and scored a try, only to discover it
was Messenger’s off-day also as a kicker. When
half-time arrived Maoriland was leading by 12 to
three. N.S.W. started the second half well, but
again went to pieces, and Maoriland added a couple
more points. Messenger seemed afraid to kick, and
the barrackers cursed in their teeth. It was not till
darkness began to fall that the N.S.W. team pulled
itself together and played as it ought to have done
from the first. But it was too late. Maoriland’s
defence was better than its attack; but the home
team lifted its score to eivlit, and Maoriland promptly
replied by lifting its record to 17. Right on time
the charge of the Blues came off, but Messenger again
failed to score, and the game ended in favor of
Maoriland by 17 to 11. The whole Cornstalk team
played a wretched game.
In spite of the hideous exhibition on Sat-
urday, N.S.W. Rugby League selectors sent practically
the same team into the field on Monday against the
Maoriland 13. Perhaps they whisoered into its
collective ear that this was the last chance, or that
execution awaited the whole crowd in the dressing-
room if it came back defeated. Anyhow, it was a
very different team on the- field in Monday’s game,
as compared with itself as it appeared on Saturday.
On Saturday it could do nothing right; on Monday
it couldn’t go wrong. It handled the ball magnifi-
cently, it kept its combination perfectly, and its
tackling was about as perfect as tackling could be.
Maoriland rose to the changed conditions, but was
distinctly overmatched. It rallied again and again,
only to be trodden underfoot in sweeping charges.
It massed on the line for defence, and was bul-
locked to pieces. It dribbled splendidly till the ball
was snatched up right off the toe, passed like light-
ning, and sent careering towards the Maoriland
goal, with the Maoriland pack thundering after it
mixed up with the feet of the Cornstalks. It let
loose short-pass charges and thev were intercepted.
In every department the Maorilanders, largely an
old-time team, was overmatched by its younger and
more agile opponents. At half-time N.S.W. was
leading bv 11 to five, and there was still hope;
but after the resumption the slaughter began. N.S.W.
increased the pace, and while Maoriland added five
points N.S.W. heaped up 23, so when the whistle
blew the home team had won by 34 points to 10.
* * * *
Out at the University Oval (Sydney) on
Saturday, the Maoris met the Rugby Union’s Metro-
politan team on a field that was plain awful. It
was a quagmire and treacherous to the last degree,
but both sides put up a sterling game, and showed
fiiie play in spite of the disadvantageous conditions.
When they started, the home team wore white and
the. Maoris black and red. In five minutes they
were all black from head to heel. Even the Corn-
stalk fades Were as black as those of the Maoris, and
the faces of the Maoris were black as those of West
Afri6an niggers. 1 The Metrop. team relied on the toe
and let loose some beautiful dribbling charges, and
the Maoris replied with quick, short-pass rushes.
But the ground was impossible, and every move-
ment, every formation, every charge, came to grief.
They simply sank in the mud. Half-time found
' them three points all. The second half was a repe-
tition of the first. Both sides had a hopeless feeling,
as goal kicking was utterly impossible. They were
like two armies' suddenly deprived of artillery. But
what advantage there was rested with the Maoris,
and they managed to add- another try to their
• score, and so won by six points to three. '
It is not too much to say that Saturday’s
match did the Rugby League a lot of harm. All
over the city, in bars, on boats, trams and trains, the
opinion was expressed that the N.S.W. team lost
deliberately, and threw the game away. The reasons
alleged were various. First, to draw a big gate on
Monday ; second, a desire to make things better for
the Maoriland team with its own executive ; third, that
bookmakers had bought up the whole team; fourth,
that the whole team had backed Maoriland to win
at long odds through an agent; fifth, original sin.
There were several other reasons given, but these are
enough to go on with. Certainly the team should
be asked to explain the tremendous difference between
its form On Saturday and Monday.
* * * *
However, it was N.S.W.’s day out on
Monday, and the Rugby Union’s State team smashed
■ up the" Maoris by 16 points to five. But in spite of
the big margin of points it was a great game, deadly
tackling, fine passing, and, considering the greasy
ground, excellent kicking. The trouble with the
Maoris was that they exhausted themselves in the
first half, when they had the home team
hemmed in the 25, trying to break through.
The Maori is always a splendid player during the
first half, but he is finer in the fibre than the Pakeha,
and cannot last out. So he has to pile up a big
- score in the first section and play a defensive game
in the second. In this case the defence was too
strong, and the Maori failed to get through. Also,
the Cornstalk had the advantage of speed, and when
the Maori attack weakened, he broke through the
ring and got raging in a ■ counter attack. So the
first half, which should have been the Maori standby,
ended with N.S.W. leading by seven to nil. From
that time onward it was hopeless. The Maori began
to wilt, and although he managed to break through
once and add the extra points, the Cornstalk piled
another nine points on to his score, and so won out
with 16 to five.
On Saturday a Queensland Soccer team
appeared at Newcastle, but in spite of the fact that
it showed superior play, was met and defeated by
the local players. The invaders seemed unable to
drive their charges home. On Monday it attacked
the N.S.W. team at Epping (Sydney), and a very
grim struggle ensued, in which Queensland showed
no inability to drive home. The team had, appar-
ently left its diffidence on the Newcastle railway
platform. Its combination was irresistible, its kick-
ing deadly, and its passes baffling. Three times in
the first half the local force was overwhelmed, and
its defence pierced, while it was unable to score in
return. With three to nil against it, the N.S.W.
team, during the interval, changed the positions of
its men, and started the second half with an attack,
but was again forced to fight a defensive battle.
However, the changes were for the better, and if
the attacking power had not been increased, that of
the defence was greatly improved. Queensland raged
like the Devil, but could not get through, and in
the attempt the team burst its collective boiler and
fell back. Then N.S.W. came away and put the in-
vaders on the defensive. As the light died, the
Queenslanders wilted, and just before time N.S.W.
scored twice in quick succession. With only a goal
between them, N S.W. gathered itself together for
one supreme effort, and Queensland, realising the
danger, determined to do the same. The two crowds
met, they crashed, they swayed this way and that,
and the Blues gave way. The red-uniformed Queens-
landers were sweeping all before them when the
whistle blew, and the invaders had won by three
goals to two.
The fact that, though the hoofball season
is not half over, the teams to compose the “final
four” in the Vic. League competition are practically
fixed already, stresses the need for a properly-organ-
ised scheme of district football, in which the weaker
teams in each grade would regularly drop down to
a lower stage. Thus interest in the next eight sets
of matches is st'fled by the knowledge that unless
one of the four leaders —’Roy, South, ’Wood or Carl-
ton —“drops its bundle,” the ultimate settlement of
the issue must lie with them ; whereas if things were
properly arranged the struggle to reach the top
would be no more interesting than the effort to keep
away from the bottom. As it is, the next eight sets
of games will be mere isolated, detached episodes,
with l'ttle, if any, bearing on the final result.
On Saturday. St. Kilda with South, and
did its last dash, winding up with 65 points to
South’s 92. Briefly, the Saints failed because they
had no system, and persisted in running when thev
should have kicked the ball. Also, th<w lacked any
semblance of persistent endeavor. ’Wood bumped
against Melbourne, piled up 95 points to 47, and
THE ENEMY ANOINTED!
The guardian angels of Johnny Summers (the
praying pug) allege, during the Welterweight
Championship at the Sydney Staaium, that Sid
Burns is wrongfully anointed with oil.
then rested. Similarly, ’Roy casually erected a tally
of 75 points to 35 against Varsity; Carlton put
together 105 against Essfendori’s 78; and Richmond
demolished Geelong’s last faint hopes of acquiring 81
to the Seasiders' 03.
The Ass. matches afforded more sporting
interest. ’Town still has a chance of reaching tne finals,
and improved it on Saturday by taking ’Scray by
the slack of its breeks, so to speak, and casting it
into the slush. Some 12,000 barraclters viewed
the degradation, and roared themselves hoarse
through the last quarter, while ’Scray vainly strove
to,, wipe out ’Town’s 12-point lead. It managed to
scrape six points off, but when the bell rang Town
still held 42 points to ’Scray’s 36, and the villagers
departed homewards in a condition of delirium flav-
ored with beer. ’Town is now but half a game
behind Wick and a game behind ’Don and P’ran.
The mighty P’ran went down to the bleak Brighton
ground in the cocksure humor of victorious heroes,
but something went wrong somewhere. Anyhow,
Brighton, starting the last quarter with a deficit of
13 points, plugged away 60 strenuously that the
P’.rannies were overwhelmed by .55 points to 52.
Brighton’s kicking (seven goals 13 behinds) was
by no means gaudy, but it was a case where behinds
counted. Essendon was at home to Northcote, and
saved its ham by the skin of its teeth, in a manner
of speaking, getting through ultimately by 95 points
to 85. ’Wick also had a narrow squeak from going
under to Port, reaching the end of the riot with but
60 points to Port’s 54. The only decisive win of the
day was at East Melbourne, where the comic Mel-
bourne Citizens scraped up 49 points to North’s 111.
On July 12 the N.S.W. Juniors of the
Australian game will meet those of South Aus-
tralia, and to test what the Cornstalk Junior is
really worth a team of him was picked to meet a
crowd of sen’ors. It was admittedly a tough pro-
position to put on the junior, but he did not seem
discouraged. He rolled up cheerfully, and when the
game was over it was the senior team which crawled
out through the back entrance and took to drink to
wipe away the memory of the humiliation. The
junior had won by 60 points to 20. It was awful!
* * * *
Adelaide football is unusually exciting
this year. For some seasons past—since Norwood
fell out of the running—either West Adelaide or
Port has been too good for everybody else. This
year Sturt has beaten both of them, and has itself
been taken down by South Adelaide, while North
completed the mix-up by beating Port. Thus, at
the end of one round, Sturt, with a single defeat, is
top of the list, and next, with two, Port, West and
South are bracketed. Norwood has lost to every-
body.
Last week Wm. Langfranclii, otherwise
Bill Lang, transferred his football alleg ance from
Richmond F.C., to which he nominally belonged, to
the Carlton Juniors, of the Metropolitan Amateur
Assn. William’s idea is to train the team and earn
a few pence besides keeping himself in good fettle
for any casual fights that may occur. His vigorous
habit of body will also assail him in the strenuous
r6le of chucker-out at his large and ornate Swanston-
street hotel.
The of* the opening of the second
round of Sydney lacrosse was the upheaval of Peter-
sham, last year’s premier team, which had been
bashed and beaten full sore during the first half. The
team had taken it badly, and had trained and prac-
tised hard. On Saturday, when it met the improving
Birchgrove crowd which had outed it so badly early
in the season, there was blood in its eye and murder
in its heart. But it kept its head, got Birchgrove
down, and fell upon it, bashed it hard with 10 goals
to four, and hoDed it would know its place in
future. It was an unmitigated disaster for Birch-
grove, but a crowning mercy to Petersham, which
thereby won back its chance to take part in the final.
Sydney and Burwood put up a great tussle, in wh ch
Burwood had all the best of it for three-quarters
of the game. Then Sydney went baresark, and
became a howling lunatic or an aeroplane, or some-
thing, and won by seven goals to six. The other
matches were mere slaughter ; Eastern Suburbs over-
whelmed Manly by 10 goals to nil. Mosman obliter-
ated University by 17 goals to one. Eastern Suburbs
still leads in the competition with 15 points, Sydney
has 13, Petersham 11, Burwood eight, and University
niL .
Weights for the V.R.C. Grand Nationals
were published last week, and punters are rushing
early fancies, to their probable sorrow anon. The
handicap for the big Hurdle Race would seem to
flatter last year’s winner—who is moved up a stone
only—if he had not lost the sight of an eye in the
meantime. A one-eyed jumper seems a dangerous
thing to back. Most of the others lately talked about
are weighted heavily enough, with the exception of,
perhaps. Hardrada, who catches the eye as a specially
good chance. Among the steeplechasers, Captain
Jingle, Guncap, Leah Kleshna, United Kingdom and
Bocligal are everybody’s fancies at time, of writing.
Perhaps everybody’s predictions will include the
actual winner.
The weights for the Epsom and Metropoli-
tan double at Sydney in far-off September were, let
loose on the public this week, and our good friend
Shortodds got busv at once. Said that he has done
phenomenal pencilling. Certainly the world is full
of fools who think themselves wise, or he would have
done nothing, for there are 207 prads listed for the
Epsom and 186 crocks for the Metroo. There are
about 40-odd thousand ways of laying that double,
and yet the most the Bag-Carrier will offer is 500
to one, and with not too much to spare at that figure.
Talk about the schnaoper and the prawn !
* * * *
How horse worship does grow. There are
345 entrants for the A.J.C. Derby in 1914 and 344
for the V.R.C. As the record number of starters in
the A.J.C. “blue ribbon” event stands at 16 and
only eight favorites have won in 25 years, what sort
of a picnic is Iscariot O’Moses going to have with
the long-range punters !
* * * *
Queensland sat up and rubbed its eyes
the other morning when it read in its Courier that
Denham was going to abolish the bookmaker and the
proprietary racecourse. But it had hardly got over
the shock before Dpnham rushed into nrint to deny
the slander So the Bag party and the private
courses (which flourish in Brisbane like the cactus
on the Western plains) are respited—for the present.
Trainer Wootton. formerly of Australia,
is suing Bob Sutton Sievier, also formerly of Aus-
tralia, for damages re an article in the London
Winning Post, and the turf magnates of this coun-
try are cordially recommended to read, mark and
inwardly digest the article that Wootton complains
of. Sievier accused him of conspiring with other
trainers to arrange “the winning and losing of races,”
and—are the turf reporters Listening?—of “running
half-trained horses when he did not want them to
win.” This last clause in the indictment would
sound like a jest if an Australian trainer levelled it
against a local newspaper. Reporters hereabouts
speak of “running a horse into form,” or “ sharpen-
ing him up with a few gallons in public,” as though
it were a quite legitimate method of getting the
animal fit. When a half-trained gee of good class
goes out unbacked for a race at Randwick or Flem-
ington the newspapers speak admiringly of its beefy
appearance, and remark that it was sent “with a
view to future engagements,” or “gave promise of
being fit in another two months’ time.” The public
are cheerfully told that the beefy unbacked one did
very well to finish in the first 10, under the circum-
stances. Yet here is Wootton suing our old friend
Bob for saying that he runs half-trained horses with-
out the least idea of winning with them!
* * * *
The latest English Derby appears to have
been a very odoriferous business. In addition to
the King’s prad being upset by a wild woman, and
a dubious game worked over the colt Craganour, it
seems that some caitiff, possibly connected with the
Craganour push, displayed the “all right” flag as
the signal to the two tribes that weren’t lost to
“pay out.” Judah and Benjamin paid out, to dis-
cover when too late, they had paid on a disqualified
crook. The cable innocently remarks, “Many of those
who received their Craganour bets would not go to
the trouble of returning them upon hearing the colt
had been disqualified.” It is at a time like this
that Simeon must feel darned glad that he gave up
his allotment in Palestine very early and went back
into the wilderness. But for that prudent move he
might also have been paying out. As it is, he is
merplv driving a camel somewhere about the desert
of Sinai.
* * * *
Both England and German motorists are
experimenting with benzol, made from slack coal,
as a substitute for petrol. It seems to be just as
good and much cheaper. The trouble is that at pre-
sent the supply does not equal the demand, or it would
-be, probablv, cheaper still. Plants for its produc-
tion are being rapidly extended, and it is estimated
that by this time next year Germany will be pro-
ducing the 800,000 gallons of benzol which will make
the country independent of imported fuel. The
Government has completed a plant capable of pro-
ducing 5.750,000 gallons annually for military pur-
poses. England has not moved nearly so fast, but it
has done something in the same direction. Consider-
ing what coal stocks we have here in Australia, why
does no N S.W. capitalist take up the job of supply-
ing benzol to the Continent and the territories
reasonably adjacent thereunto ? There should be
money in it.
* * *• *
The much-postponed visit of a Maoriland
cricket XI. to Australia has at last been fixed up
and will be included in next season’s programme.
To make the tour a financial success the NSW
Cricket Association has decided to pass over th
gate receipts of the,. N.S.W. v. M.L. match to th!
wanderers, and to guarantee that the sum shall ™
be less than £75. Which will assist the mob
keep clear of the fingers of Cohen and enable th
treasurer to sleep the slumber of the solvent
*****
N.S.W. Cricket Association awakened to
an urgent necessity last week ana dec.ded to form
an “Umpires’ Association” before the opening of
next season. There is need for a standard ruling
in cricket, whereas at present each umpire is a la
unto himself, and the thing that is illegal here‘s
perfectly correct there. The white coat often covers
a mass of ignorance, and a good association should
do a lot to reduce that mass.
Worby Beaumont, a well-known English
r!! g ; ne fu’ i *2? b , u^ested to the Koval Automobile
Club that the time is now ripe for the club to
encourage the development of an internal combustion
rotary engine. The club, by its trials and priC
did much to bring the present type of motor-engine
to its present high state of efficiencv, and Beaumont
believes it could do a national service bv applvim,
the same methods to the creation of the ideal engine
The technical committee of the club has adopted the
suggestion, and a prize will be presented in 191-
for the best type of rotary petrol or internal com
bustion engine—if the club endorses the committee's
recommendation.
“Rangan”: Bananaland’s aborigiua'
boxer Jerry Jerome is being lathered by a paternal
Government, The smiling Jerry is not to go to the
wood-heap when he has misplaced his punch He
has fought his way up to a'position where he can
demand a fair sum for a fight, and this sum w 11 be
looked after by the Chief Protector of Aborigines
who has instructions to act as Jerry’s super-manager
A fair training allowance will be made to the
black man, and the rest will go into the bag
against the day when Jerry can no longer bring the
bacon home in the ordinarv way of business
* * * V
Reg Baker served up lordly fare at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday, in the shape of a battle
for the welter-weight championship of the British
Empire, and a mighty crowd came to partake of the
view. The parties to the disturbance were Sid
Burns and Johnny Summers. They had met twice
before in England, where each had scored a narrow-
victory. So, naturally, everyone looked for a wild-
cat scrap, and nobodj - came away disappointed, for
the men boxed like Trojans and fought like tigers.
According to the scales, Burns had the advantage of
a shade over a couple of pounds of weight, but the
advantage, such as it was, was more than counter
balanced by the greater strength and hitting power
of Summers. Not one man in a hundred, looking
at them in the ring, but would have sworn that
Summers could give Burns at least eight or nine
pounds weight. Summers has acquired a most for-
midable wallop, and Burns got the full force of it
time and again. Summers is a religious pugilist.
He carries a scapular in his sock, and during each in-
terval he touches it and devoutly crosses himself; but
all the religion about him could not prevent the old
Adam in him from indulging in a good deal of palming
during the scrap. Since the heavy gloves came into
vogue, palming has become a universal vice among
the pugs. Burns palmed, too, but Summers started it
and was much the worse offender. It is time the
referee jumped on the practice with both feet, and,
after a warning, promptly outed a scrapper or two,
; ust to make the others sit up straight and think
hard. However, to come back to the scrap, which
was great, glorious and vimful, and fought at a
splendid pace throughout. Burns was the better
boxer, but Summers was the harder hitter and the
stronger man, and Burns’s excess of boxing skill was
not sufficient to offset Summers’s double advantage.
Johnny’s wallops hurt, and took time to recover from,
and during the period of recuperation Burns lost his
powers of aggression. All the same, during half
the battle Summers was fighting a defensive battle;
but he usually managed to catch his man some bad
ones after each retreat. There was some trouble on
account of oil. The referee sent Burns back to his
corner and insisted upon him being wiped over with
a towel to remove the lubricant. Burns denies that
any oil was used upon him, and it is possible he was
the victim of appearances in the shape of perspira-
tion ; but it was a case in which a pug should regu-
late his perspiration, so as to avoid the appearance
of oiling. Contrary to expectation on the part of
the onlookers the fight went the full time, and
Summers was awarded the verdict on points. Despite
his practice of palming, and a disposition to ierk his
elbow up after crossing with the right, Summers
deserved his victory.


99
it
Yes, Sir!
HYPOL Means Health,
<5 •'* -!
Uvttt oti.
i *» VkSiOH,
■
< 5
J&K&m
. jftt
4 < „
:P-
-.
■
■
wm
■ .
“HYPO L, M the Famous Emulsion for
Chest Complaints and Wasting Disorders.
Trotisers for the Man “ Outback.”
It’s because they Look Well, Feel Well, Wear Well, and are above all absolutely suited
to Australian conditions, that we recommend the Trousers shown below to the man Out-
back. In their combination of Comfort and Capacity for Service with Good Appearance
they are invaluable for Station and General Country Wear.
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“ Mail-order Tailors and Outfitters,”
244-254 FLINDERS STREET —ITELBOURNE.
Z y ii«/
2/
4
8
.i
WORKING
TROUSERS,
7/6
In Double Twist
o f Guaranteed
Worth. Strongly
made. Well cut
(on the loose
side). In Drab and
Grey Shades. Top
or ' Side Pockets.
Splendid for all-
round wear.
Postage 9d. extra.
RIDING
TROUSERS,
15
In Finest Geelong
Whipcord. Regulation
Riding Out, fitting
tightly over boot.
Guaranteed to stand
any amount of Hard
Wear. Dark and Light
Grey and Fawn
Shades. Top or Side
Pockets.
Postage 9d. extra.
WHY NOT BE STRONG and VIGOROUS
When it is so easy to be well, if you will only adopt natural
methods ?
Do not straggle along in life, overburdened with indifferent
health, when strength, vigor and energy are just waiting to be
called.
Learn the Snowy Baker POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH
EXERCISES. They will quickly restore you to normal health —
make .you strong and vigorous.
They are simple, but scientific, movements for bracing up your
internal muscles. Your internal muscles regulate the working of
your heart, lungs, stomach, liver, intestines, which, you know, are
your vital organs. You ought to brace them up —not retard
them. You ought to Learn my Health Exercises.
“I am pleased to say I have lost all the symptoms of indi-
gestion which was a torment to me previous to undergoing
your exercises. I sleep more soundly, and life seems a
pleasure to me.” —J.W., Nanya, Q.
This letter is but one of many hundreds. They all prove the
efficiency of the Snowy Baker Health Exercises.
Write for my illustrated, 40-page Booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self Culture,” which gives full information, cost
of tuition, etc.
Kindly send three penny stamps to cover postage.
Reg. L . (“Snowy”) Bilker
K ■ ■
r
267 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
00 (double‘o')
Old Orkney Whisky.
IF
YOU WILL S o in for
Sport,
YOU WILL go in for Best
Material,
YOU WILL always obtain
this at
L.W.DODGE&CO.
SYDNEY SPORTS STORES,
NOW LOCATED AT
10 & 12 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
If you arc a
Cigar Smoker
and like a mild Cigar
with a fine flavor, I
would like you to try
my
LA NOVA
—a Dutch Cigar
de Luxe.
The “La Nova” is a
rare cigar, of exquisite
fragrance and undeni-
able quality. It is
splendid value, and
will certainly appeal
to those who want a
reliable cigar at a
moderate price.
Price
30|- per 100
Packed in boxes of 25,
7/6 per box. Each
box weighs 12 ounces.
Postage extra.
Write for a copy of
my Catalog, “A Book
of Good Smokes.”
Actual Size
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
You Will Select Rigney Shoes
That is, if you are particular, and discrimin-
ate between ordinary shoes and the kind
that have style, tit, smart appearance and
comfort.
Rigney Shoes are the choice of careful
dressers.
The boot illustrated is a Choice Willow Calf
Lace Boot, .Linen lined, Close and Medium
Welts, perforated Golosh, and Lace face.
Price 18 O, 22/0 and 25/-
Also in Black, Boots or Shoes.
Postage, 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our NEW CATALOG.
The Rigney Shoe Go.
"The Men's Exclusive High-grade
Shoe Parlors,”
§
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY;
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.


Sanatogen Brings New
Health and Nerve Force,
“ I have used Sanatogen with extra-
ordinary benefit. It is to my mind a true
food tonic, feeding the nerves, increasing
the energy, and giving fresh vigour to the
overworked body and mind.”
These words by Sir Gilbert Parker, M.P.,
the well-known author, have a helpful
meaning for you —if you need real help in
one of those crises of life when your health
is giving you anxiety.
They echo a sentiment of gratitude which
is expressed in many different ways in
thousands upon thousands of letters from
men and women who owe to Sanatogen new
strength * ->d vitality.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst, member of Hi»
Majesty's Privy Council, writes: “ Sir John
Gorst wishes to say he has long been acquainted
with the great merits of Sanatogen -has taken
it with excellent results, and when necessary
will certainly take it again. It was also used
by a daughter of his with great benefit."
To you who are run down, nervous or
weak —to you who are less than yourself —
Sanatogen will bring new health. To you
whose nerves have gone wrong, and whose
appetite or sleep or capacity for work are
impaired, Sanatogen comes as a rescuing
sustainer, a revitalising force, a feeder of
nerves and tissues.
Write to-day for a Free Booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” to Messrs. A. Wulfing
& Co., 17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kindly mention this paper when writing.
All Chemists sell Sanatogen, price 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per tin.
# 54
-
r-‘aF , '9£rf/VR'
H. ' "
l ¥
■■>>
1
H
ft
W
L
V-
>>
&
V
5
V
*
Hi
'-■i*
a
i
*
U.
“8.J.”: At Melbourne Glaciarium, the other day, a
moving picture show was given in broad daylight,
without any attempt being made to darken the hall.
This is the outcome of an invention by which the
pictures are projected from behind on to a trans-
parent screen (stated to be weather-proof and non-
inflammable). There is now, apparently, nothing to
prevent daytime open-air picture shows, which, how-
ever, will not be extensively patronised bv Benno and
Liz. In fact, it is already rumored that Benjamin
and Elizabeth regard the innovation as a plain nark.
“O. Jerusalem”: Genee, that mighty dancer before
the profits (the Law being a mere matter of detail),
is married to one Isitt, who has cousins of that
name in Maoriland. Amongst them are Reverends
Frank and Leonard, whose war-dances on the No-
license platform would give Genfe some new ideas
if she saw them.
“Kaylee”: A Bulletin writer (12/6/’l3) doubts
the genuineness of a Jap’s walk, barefooted, up a
ladder of swords. 1 know naught of the Jap, but
in Sydney I have seen a young Italian with
you couldn’t perforate with a pick. He could walk
up 17 swords, any of which would cut a whisker.
Further, he would jump from a height on to the
points of a hundred nails without suffering any in-
convenience. Charged in a hotel with “fake, ’ I saw
him bare his feet, place a glass on the floor, and
blithely jump on it till it was powder. He wasn't
hurt nearly so much as the hotelkeeper who owned
the glass.
“J.F.H.”: “The Taming of the Shrew,” done by
Martin Harvey and his co. “as it was played in
Shakspeare’s own time,” is a big success at the
Prince of Wales, London. There is no scenery and no
orchestra. The orchestra’s place is taken by a dais
or platform, on which sits Christopher Sly, the
drunken tinker, laughing, applauding and eventu-
ally snoring, and doing them all vociferously. There
is only one interval —a brief hiatus in the middle of
the piece, and the whole thing is through in a little
over two hours. That is how Shakspeare intended
it to be. As one critic puts it, he “was perfectly
well aware he was turning out a rough-and-ready
farce for the box-office.”
“Don Q,”: Reverting to the argument as to
whether the moving picture boom is likely to crack
at an early date, it may be given as evidence that
up here in Ipswich (Q.) we’ve arrived at penny
shows for children. Thus: Bunches of tickets are
forwarded to the schools, which admit a scholar for
3d. and a friend “free.” On the tickets is the fur-
ther information that there is a “fruit
free to each child. After observing the “banquet’
and the cost of the fruit wholesale, I calculate the
expense per head to the management would be a
ha’penny. Even the New South Wales political
financiers could deduct that from and get close
to the position.
The old Gaiety Theatre, in Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney, has been demolished. In its time, Alfred Dam-
p:er had some seasons there, and so had Wvbert
Reeve. Also, it was the harbor of refuge for the
old Victoria company when the Vic. was destroyed
by fire in 1880. The building was originally the
Guild Hall, owned by the R.C.'s.
L'sten to the comments of one H. S. Rowe on the
career of Bud Atkinson’s Wild West Circus in Aus-
tralia ! They appear in a letter to The Billboard,
a Cincinnati theatrical puff paper. “A small com-
munity will support only a small show, and Atkin-
son's show was too expensive for the Australian vil-
lages, while it did a profitable business in the larg-
est cities. Australia is not as good a country as it
was 20 years ago, according to the statement of many
people. It is firmly in the grasp of Labor Govern-
ment, and Capital' does not care to invest under
those condtions. The people work short hours and
get short pay. They wear cheap clothing, and eat
cheap meals. They have plenty of vacations and
holidays, and seem contented to just get by.” Then
Rowe goes on to explain that the only weak-
ness of the busted enterprise was on its financial
side, and he finishes up with a somewhat corrective
paragraph: “While Atkinson’s show was too expen-
sive for Australia, except the larger cities, it was
conducted at much less cost than the same show
could be run in America. Over there, license for a
circus is either very reasonable, or entirely free. Lot
rent is the same. Transport is very cheap, as are
hotels and livery. Meats are less costly than here,
and other provisions about the same. Newsnapers
are also a stand-off, and horse feed a trifle higher.
There are very few billposting plants, but Sydney
and Melbourne have about as good plants as can be
found in America.” Next time Bud Atkinson thinks
of bringing a motley cowboy gathering to Australia
he might ask the Wirths how they manage to tempt
£3OO into their little tent when touring the villages.
“X in Alt”: Melbourne is threatened in the near
future with a series of ballad concerts on London
lines —and may the Lord have mercy on its soul!
Ballad concerts, as run by Chappell’s and Boosey’s,
the two big music firms, probably don’t pay except
as advts. for their sentimental hogwash. Artists have
to sing new songs at the bidding of these enterprising
publishers, and it is noticeable that the magnificent
Butt is making more legitimate use of her phenom-
enal stock of voice now that she no longer sings for
either of the ballad firms. I understand that it is a
combination of three London publishers, aided and
abetted by the Auditorium brotherhood, which means
to afflict Melbourne with the ballad concert.
“Ike Pagliacei”: Taking all things into considera-
tion, Inverell is the best show-going town in N. S.
Wales. Fortv miles away is Glen Innes, at the mere
mention of which travelling showmen get chilblains. •
Northern River towns have a good mark to their
credit; but, with the exception of Atollongong, the
South Coast towns are all icebergs. Goulburn, long
known as the actors’ graveyard, is resurrecting.
Wagga runs pictures three times a week, and the
other three nights are invariably filled m. Wagga
abhors advertising hoardings, and only two are per-
mitted. The pasting of playbills is also visited
with the utmost scrunch of the law. The local council
collects a pound every time the hoardings are used,
which is a hotter price than the most torrid
charged by city billstickeries. C'hiltern and Stawell,
in Victoria, have been damned eternally by most
travelling showmen. Horsham and Ararat are dis-
tinctly pavable ore, but the least said about Ballarat
the better. No showman ever made a fortune out
of the countrv towns in South Aus., unless it was
Pa Corrick, who attracts church congregations almost
bodily to his entertainments. let Kadina, in b.A.,
the lone exception, will ®-ive better returns than any
other town of its size in Australia.
Of Rudvard Kipling’s first attempt as a playwright,
William Archer, one of the most trustworthy of Lon-
don critics, says: “If it shows no great skill, neither
does it show anv lack of instinct for the stage, and
it is written with that full-blooded raciness of which
Kipling has the secret.” The title is The Harbor
Watch”: it runs to but one act, and is wholly con-
cerned with the capers of a mariner with a mixed
cargo of ruddy rum, and ruddier oaths, of the true
Kipling flavor.
“Petramos”: Ex-journalist Beaumont Smith is to
give Australia “The Glad Eye.” This is the comedy
that took more money in London last year than
any other current production, barr ng perhaps
“Bunty Pulls the Strings” and “Drake.’ In
America “The Glad Eye,” under another title, didn t
prove a very joyful optic for its producer, but it is
an elephant to an ant that Australia will follow
London’s lead just as it did with “Our Miss Gibbs,
a lady whose New York run could scarcely be dis-
tinguished from an amble. Smith, by the way. has
cleared up a lot of money in Africa with “Tiny
Town,” and shortly sets out to conquer Canada with
the same goods.
“Stargazer”: I have at length ascertained the prin-
ciple that rules the taking of encores at theatres
and music-halls, whore I have been in the habit of
seeing singers and dancers set back and resume opera-
tions in response to enthusiastic bursts of silence.
Conversing with an ill-advised balladist the other
evening, I asked: “But why did you return and sing
it all over again?” “Why not?” she asked. “No one
hissed.”
“Lester Square” (from London): The features of
London show-land at the moment are ragtime and
revues, or, as the press begins to sensibly call them,
“reviews.” The popularity of the review is under-
standable, and the thing must happen along in
Australia presently. Reviews have no plot. They
consist of music-hall “turns,” suspended on a string
of current topics. Those now running in London are
built of skits, political jokes and gibes (the suffra-
gettes and the Marconi “investors holding a large
section of the show, of course), most splendiferous
dresses and undresses, singers, dancers, knockabouts
and walkers-on. As the whole scheme is framed up
on local and topical jests and skits, it is obvious
that the stuff has to be up-to-date and fresh, as well
as local, and that is where Australian writers should
get a look in. The review is too fragile and perish-
able to import; but as it has proved so popular a
house-filler here, even the older Australian manage-
ments might be inclined to cut adrift for once from
imported goods and give the new home-grown thing
a whirl.
“C. Ocknev”: The announcement that Mrs. Evelyn
Thaw was to appear in the revue at the London
Hippodrome, and receive a salary of £6OO a week,
was being received with considerable disapproval
when the last mail left. The variety profesh parti-
cularly has a lot to say against it. Albert Cheva-
lier, one of its most artistic -ornaments, puts the
case thus: “I cannot express an opinion on Mrs.
Thaw’s talent. I have never seen her act. If she
can come over here and simply on her own merits
earn the money, then good luck to her! But if she
is to be boomed merely as the heroine of the Th
murder trial, that is playing it pretty low down™
With all of which I think most people will atrr
Meanwhile the Hippodrome management's onlv a!'
fence of its extraordinary engagement seems to* be 6
communication to the press to the effect that th*
lady’s salary is not going to be £6OO. Most 0 f ,
will not be surprised at that. Personally whenever
I see an enormous music-hall salary quoted I eP t t
work with an axe.
The Kineplastikon, now showing at the Scala Hall
London, promises to put all other film-pictures to
sleep. In some mysterious way not yet made publie
an illusion of depth and thickness is given and a
set scene is presently occupied by figures which seem
to be really among the (real) chairs and tables
Unless the public and the critics were being fooled
by people who were actually there and pretended not
to be. this “solid body” presentation is either
Pepper’s Ghost up to date or a new thing in picture-
faking.
The Bulletin’s rule, whereunder it fines itself
Id., or the rising of the hotel, for referring to (savl
Madame Butt, is commending itself in England. London
Referee's Paris correspondent has just asked: TVhv
will they insist on making a Babel salad of their
programmes? For instance, why is Melba ‘Madame’
Melba? I don’t want her called Nellie Mitchell if
she doesn’t want to be. but, if she has conscientious
objections to ‘Miss Nellie Melba,’ what’s the matter
with ‘Mrs. Melba’ ?”
George Edwardes, who runs the London Gaiety
and Daly’s, from which Australia imports musical
comedies of all sorts, had two new pieces in rehearsal
at latest mail advices. “The Magic Film,” the
Gaiety production, is in three acts, the first and
third in London, the second at a country mill. In
the development of the nlot the bioscope plays a pro-
minent part. In fact, the great 6cene is in a picture-
film factory. The Daly’s piece is “The Marriage
Market” —a title that conjures up visions of more
Girl.
“Absalom Jones”: Stood once before the big kin-
dergarten cage in Hagenbeck’s Zoo at Hamburg
watching a black bear cub gravely punching a white
bear cub, with a young hyena acting as referee,
and 20 other young animals watching the contest.
“If you could train animals to do that,” said Hagen-
beck, who was standing by, “the act would earn
£4OO per week.” But there are many animals that
can only be trained to do what they like doing.
Cats, f’rinstance, can be trained to jump at the
right moment on to a somersaulting acrobat’s back
because cats like jumping and hanging on. Tigers
are easily taught to jump on to the back of a gal-
loping horse. The wise trainer never relies on a
dog's intelligence if something more substantial is
available. Saw a dog, representing a parson, trained
to open a Bible with its paw. Opposite was a dog
supposed to have been sentenced to death. Imme-
diately the parson pup opened the Bible the mur-
derer 'mongrel walked over to make his peace with a
haste quite inexplicable unless voti were aware that
the parson dog opened the Bible at the exact page
at which a piece of meat had been placed. Pigs
and polar bears will slide down toboggans in the
most natural manner —if they are given a push off.
Monkeys are the dev'l to teach because they scratch
with four paws and bite. The trainer, therefore, in-
variably wears armor on his arms, and, when man’s
poor and tailed relation bites it is bad for his teeth.
Afterwards the poor and taily relation gets shy of
biting and seldom returns to the occupation. Seals
are singularlv intelligent, and, comparatively speak-
ing, are not difficult to train. Cockatoos never for-
get their lessons. Bears are always nastv. All shy
animals are difficult to educate, and the shvest of the
lot—the black panther—is impossible to tutor.
Mrs. G. B. Lewis, who was rarely seen on the
Australian stage for manv vpars prior to her going
to London, is still holding her own in that smoky
village. Lately she was running a dramatic sketch,
at the Kilburn Empire, disguised under the title of
“Australia's Bernhardt,” and was credited with “a
magnificently realistic portrayal of the old French
woman” in' her one-act tragedy. But whilst the
promising young actress (she must be nearly four
times 18) was making good at the ’alls Beerbohm
Tree engaged her for a term.
A STAGE MYSTERY, POLYSYLLABICALLY
CONSIDERED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These are surely stirring times. We never can
be quite sure what is going to happen next. When-
ever anvthing does occur, it is just the opposite
from what was expected. Everything seems calcu-
lated to upset preconceived notions and fixed ideas.
These reflections are caused by an advertisement
in Friday’s Telegraph. . .It read :
“Miss Beard requests the anonymous donor of the
jewellerv sent to her on Wednesday to call for same
immediately at Her Majesty’s Theatre, and it will be
returned.”
Interviewed, Miss Beard said: “I am certainly not
going to burst forth with expensive jewels. I don’t
want them. Nobody has any right to send these
things to me.”
Miss Beard’s attitude was given up as a hopeless
enigma. —Sydney Sun.
Fair one, whose vast, though distant, charms have
rendered me delirious,
Not once, but scores and scores of times, I swear
by Janus, Sirius,
Or any other thing you like, that I am filled with
infinite
Compassion at your latest wrong. The whole town
sees the sin in it.
This hurling round of precious stones, by citizens
anonymous,
These Grecian gifts of jewellery to girls who are
autonomous,
And wedded indissolubly to absolute simplicity,
Must fire each heart with loathing for the scoundrel
whose duplicity,
And fatuous self-confidence, and misplaced generosity,
Have caused your letter-box such unaccustomed pon-
derosity.
And now commiseration terminates, and I proceed
to show
How you may know your enemy —that’s if you wish
indeed to know
The furtive hound. Don’t think lie’s rich. Aban-
don dreams of pageantry.
Your benefactor's stony-broke—an ink-besmeared
press-agent he.
N.s.w.
D.B.J.


KATfOOn DA
f
im
OW 1 11 !. 8 ® 68 enjoyed by visitors at
the CARRINGTON Hotel is the daily service of
Gars to the Jenolan Caves. This trip is made bv
magnificent, high-powered “Itala” Cars— admitted to be
the finest in the world.
I orty-seven miles of glorious scenery. Fare, £2 return.
The CARRINGTON is only a minute from the station,
overlooks Ivatoomba and district, and is handv to all
TO* 8 -. Every convenience and comfort—Electric Light
Artificial Heating System, Hydropathic Department and
Modern Garage.
Tariff— £3 10s. per week ;
12s. 6d. per day.
Full information from City Office.
18 IMPERIAL ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
rj
%'
V,
Of
.If
Z 3


Anaemia
This
mark
A
<L
is cn
the cure.
Anaemic girls, weak chil-
dren and jaded mothers
get new life and vigour by
taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. Medicine and food, it
fortifies the blood, pro-
motes appetite, and brings
back the roses and the joy
of health. But be sure to
get SCOTT’S —no other
has the approval of the
world’s doctors.
scorn
Emulsion
hew a 37 years’ record
in the curing of illness
and disease. Insist on
SCOTT’S and start to-day.
ANTINEURASTH I N
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Aiuemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, wdll be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane: or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings. Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales bv H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
Satisfied with your hair? If
not, try Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
There is an immense
amount of satisfaction in
every bottle of it.
THE Australian Magazine—THE EONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
STAMMERING.
K/ R. W. A. YEARSLEY, Bowen Terrace, Mel-
* bourne. Under special appointment to Munici-
pal Education Committees, England and South
Africa. Method approved Board of Education, Eng.
Subsidised by Governments. Awarded Gold Medal
for excellency. Booklets sent free.
Fits “Wonder” has
No “Bromide of Potash.”
Safe, Certain Cure —
6 Bottles posted 17/2.
Write for particulars—
T. H. MERSON,
16 Hunter St., Sydney, &
229 Collins St., Melbourne.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL. LIMITED. 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Have You. Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ?
l
For hundreds of vears the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines-
and the people in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
T believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails—in fact, I know many, many
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try the simple natural Herb Cure f o ‘r
your complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all narticulars—l will send you a full
month’s supply of Herbs, suited for your illness, with full direction how to use them.
For this full month’s course 1 charge £2/27- It will prove the best investment you ever
made. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State.
J. W. CASE, ph. c., m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, B RISBAN E, Q.
A s
THE
FIRST TUBE
of Pebeco you use will clearly demonstrate its merits to the
full. The taste is totally different from that of any other
dentifrice; not flat, hut quite distinctive and agreeable, a
taste remarkably clean, refreshing and purifying, a taste
which, once accustomed to, you will not willingly miss.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube, with useful Book and interesting test. Free
for three penny stamps, on application to the Sole Agent,
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
13
ADVICE TO MR. SHOWMAN!
JUST ARRIVED—THE LARGEST STOCK OF
MOVING
PICTURE
MACHINES
EVER IMPORTED TO AUSTRALIA.
FROM £lO UPWARDS.
+r
Wp stopk EVERY LEADING MAKE of BIOSCOPE MACHINE, Lighting Outfits, and Filins, and
guarantee to sell 30% CHEAPER THAN ANY OTHER FIRM. WE DO NOT BELONG TO ANY
COMBINE If vou want a Moving Picture Outfit for the HOME or THEATRE, we can suppl) it.
Every article is GUARANTEED PERFECT. Gffl OUR PRICE LIST before buying elsewhere. If
vou want to Pav Cash, or BUY ON THE INSTALMENT SYSTEM, no matter where you live,JRE
WILL SUPPLY YOU. SIXTY MACHINES TO SELECT FROM, and 500,000 FEET OF THE
LATEST FILM SUBJECTS, from id. PER FOOT. WRITE TO-DAY FOR PARTICL LARS.
WORLD’S BIOGRAPH LTD., Bathurst St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Hunyadi Janos
Occasional Constipation, although it may attract little attention
from the sufferer, nevertheless demands prompt attention.
Fortunately the remedy is simple and still more happily
Providence has placed it within the reach of every household.
Nothing more is required than a wineglassful of Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aperient Water every morning on arising before breakfast
for a week—* only that—and nothing more.
CONSTIPATION
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis,
U.S.A.
Combination Harness and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing Outfits (power
or foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without
“ CHAMPION ” Outfits.
J. W. LARBALEST/ER, LTD.,
So/e Australasian Agents,
CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY, N
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
SAVE TIME AND TROUBLE BY USING
V2s
15he “PLUM” Razor
No scraping and pulling with the “Plum.” No smarting cheek an
chin for you. .
This razor is so keen and reliable that your morning wi
real pleasure, instead of an irksome task. _.,-q
Order one to-dav, and we’ll keep it in first-class order for
YEARS. FREE OF CHARGE.
PRICE 10 6, Post Free,
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor. Vulcanite Handle, 10 6
Pair in Double Case, 2b- .e g
Single Razor, Ivory Hand'e, 15/6. e
Pair In Double Case, 30/-.
line that makes a good preseti •
The Plum Razor Strop. lo , 6 a " d h
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, 1 -
The Plum Strop Dressing, l
Gentlemen who Bha>e the
should not be without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654
jEORGE STREET. SYDNEY-
ESTABLISHED SO YEARS. ■
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stampea.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
T J A.: “Liberalism and Other Diseases
wanders too much, \vmle trying to keep track ot
the elusive thing, with its multitudinous main argu
ments and its numerous by- and sub- and s le a gu
ments, it fell off the desk and was dashed to pieces
tathe basket... .Truthful James: That yarn was told
in the da vs of the first caddie that ever was...
J.E.X.H.: We’re told that the Defence P<*>P le . make
some use of the “trig.” survey already... .b m
Ideal and the Real” was rejected. We really didnt
care for the idea of a totally bald-headed
less girl C. Axnick: Can’t see the rooster reseni
blance. Have impounded the stamp as a
you not to waste time over foolishness.... John•
Johnson: Interested to get your old 1908 election
manifesto. It is the sort of manifesto that "ill go
down splendidly in 1918. . . .A.R.: It would have got
through if the old, bald-headed sub-editor had not
shown it to his aged and decrepit parent, who reco
lected that his grandfather had told it him when
vouth in the flower of memory . . ..M iremu. Haven t
time to dig up the old bones of the Bible*®-|choo
argument, which were buried by The Bt lletin.
verv long time ago, after being th t ( ! r “ (r . IS :
The backbone used to hang above the Religious Bdi
tor's desk. It was labelled, Keep the Bible ou
of schools,” but it eventually went the way of oth
lumber, not seriously needed in life s ally !S rU ™ t ’ '’'
Cvgnet: Dumped.... Nip: Its an old r -’
that of the pushing off of Marconi shares in Aus-
tralia . .A. M. McL. : Well, what’s wrong with it?. . .
Polstan: “Pirate” not bad of its kind; but it s
rather cheap kind, and there s been a lot of it. • • •
Cvdnus: Too long-winded. There’s little space avail-
able for overhauling current shows after the re^ u 'i\
man has had his say W. G. Jay : Don t read th
paper if it hurts you so much. It will get on quite
well without y0u.... J.J.M.: Ostensibly (and as
far as we know, actually) the rule of the Australian
Government service is preference to . unionists, othei
things being equal.... Will P. 11. (Hobart): Posted
back" to vou on 10/6/’13.... Ernest C.j Skipper Cer-
tificate cancelled....M.l.K.: Too wildly tender and
too dashed spasmodic. A serious poem should not
leap like a pricked frog, and stop in mid-air to furl
its umbrella and sigh.... Harry: Not half-way. One
thing that turned us against it was the sentence,
“Stafford quickly determined to sink all other feel-
ings but his rising curiosity. Skirlaugh. . o
punch Bellerive: It is pleasant to read about sum-
mer when the wind is whistlin'* through its teeth,
and the coal merchant’s alleged fuel is spluttering
dismally in the grate, and doing its smoky confidence
trick: —
SUMMER EVENING BAND CONCERTS HOBART.
Residents of Hobart on a tranquil summers night
To pretty franklin square doth wend their way
To drive awav dull care
They throng the local square
To listen to the brass band play.
I’d mingle with the people in the popular resort
Where fairy lamps did gleameth round the stand
’Twas harmony to me
In the city by the sea
To listen to the music of the Band.
E W.A.H.: You can have it back. Wild horses
can drag it from us easily. .. .Oukus: You didn t
attach four name and address; but the verses are
no good, so it doesn’t matter. Now don t tr. and
fore? vour name and address on us, or we will get
furious and strike you with our grand united um-
brella. Winter is the wrong time to come flingin 0
challenges round this office, In summer of course,
we could only throw our collective hat at y0u.....
WL Me • The spirit is willing, but the pen is
weak. .." .Ernest C.: Two negatives don t make an
affirmative this time F.J.E.G.: A dun flieker:. .- ■
Charles H.: Advice handed along t 0 the w nter.
Other item handed to the basket. ... H. P. /van
garoo: Hop out Crisscross: Rejected . The simple
word is vour 0wn.... Warwick: Your Poem Hel l
certainlv has force; but every Hell poem should ha\e
that. It is lacking in other essentials, and is,
therefore, extinguished with a devilish hiss.... Bill
Bucket: Thev don’t meet with approval. Approval
is the hardest cuss to meet you ever heard of. You
have to be fairly agile, in a literary sense, to see
his elusive coat-tails going round the corner ot the
next block. To many he is only a splendid legend,
like the record fish of last summer, and the glory
that was Pa’s, before he went insolvent and allowed
boarders to ravage his house and crumple his morn-
ing paper C.H.D.: Sorry no value.. . .W.A.S.:
No force or finish. .. .S.G.: Regret unsuitable
Nip: Appeal disallowed.... G. Magpie: Pleasant sen-
timent, but not sufficient skill. . . .H.J.S. : Sorry verses
not worth while. Using cutting Walter D. C.
Likelv work, but rough. Road song has some good,
fresh touches.... Samuel P.: It is of no value what-
ever. .. .E.S.: Well, even if Fisher is the cock of the
walk, he is not quite the rooster he was, and it is no
time for crowing. You can’t crow, anyhow... .F.F. .
No profit in it Jim Jam: Dull Noel S.: Too
young for this paper. . . .Victor 1.. : It u on t do. and,
for Heaven’s sake, don’t send us the others.... Leslie
L • (1) We don’t remember what was wrong with
vour rejected varn. (2) We don’t remember the
yarn. (3) If we remembered all the re'ected yarns
and their defects, we would go melancholy mad. (4)
If vou got it back, it is a sure sign that we didn’t
want it—though why we didn’t want it is now a
dark mystery to us as well as to yourself. (5) We
don’t want—in fact, we refuse —to read it again, in
order to find out exactly what was wrong with it,
just because you “thought it was sure to stay.’ It
was probably all wrong, and every contributor has the
same splendid feeling about his work. (6) You
must excuse these slight symptoms of irritability on
our part, but your ingrowing conviction that we
remember every blighted word you ever wrote, and
have the whole day to waste, is somewhat annoying...
K.8.H.: Should have a chance with one of
the Melbourne dailies or weeklies LF.K.:
It onlv succeeds in being dreary. . . .W.D.
(M L.) : Neither, thanks Lassie: Prettv work.
but a bit thin and unskilful. .. .W.J.C.: Strikes us
as feeble. It might have been something, but it
isn’t.... Torquil: It is rather good in an immoral
sort of way, but is not up to print level. Trifle
uneven, and ends weakly and cheaply on a devout,
familiar note Rose B.: The mere scaffolding of a
storv.... W.W.R.: That cheerful dance poem hopped
over the footlights Doris A.: Quiet little charac-
ter sketch. Bit off our beat. Should have a chance
elsewhere R.J. (V.): “Prayers” and “Myrtle”
might hit another paper Dalarmi: As a vearner,
vou have much to learn.... Gerald B.: Not this time
F.C.B.: That will do! Haven’t had to endure
anything like it since the time when “Daddy” was
moaned in every suburban drawing-room, every
evening, and every young man had to listen rever-
ently. and thank the performer with tears in his
voice, in order to escape the withering inauirv, “But
you don’t care for music, do you?”... .M. McD.-F.:
Afraid there’s nothing worth opr while in the
batch. .. .E.K.C.: Story knocked out in first round
Verses likewise.... Jimmv A.: Poem entitled “Drink’
poured into basket.... Damon: Pretty leaden....
R.H.: Four lines: —
THE SONG OF DOOMED DARKIES.
No more the dusky islander
he’s passing from our sight
Jn ten more vears a sky lander
Gone out before the white.
....Florence F.: It is fresh and lively picture
jingle, but rou<*h. You raav do better with prac-
tice. . . .Xada: Wrong market. . . .M.M. (Q.) : “Spell”
chiefly interesting as the reflection of a cheerful
voung personality... .J.G.: No hope... .C.E.W.: It
is worth nothing... .11.W.D.: Been done before thirty-
thousand times.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Arthur C.: Hardly up to the mark Sydney P.
F.: Suggestion too labored ‘ and complicated....
F..8.M.: The sketch of the lady with the swelled face
doesn’t appeal to u 5.... R. Copeland: It doesn’t ex-
press the situation, and there is no beauty about
it L. H. Browne: The two figures are mere fashion
plates, set in a wooden landscape of shadows and pot
plants A.H.C.: Your picture of the three tramps
is a weariness.


Public Opinion and
Beale High-grade Pianos.
Jlie groat majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
mledoma, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Aslifield :
Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
V ery pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook's Hill Girls' Superior
Public School, Newcastle:—
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill:—
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.”
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow’s Nest line,
via Toowoomba:—
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie: —
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton :
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg :
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton:—
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. W'ALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr. JOHN 0. WHITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor:—
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians. - ’
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
dunda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Air. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia:—
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Air. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Air. C. J. HINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton:—
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Mr. A. 0. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand:—
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
From the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make—we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, at the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world —so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-Grade Piano.
We have always on hand a number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entirely as to
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
BEALE <a CO. LTD.,
MAKERS OF
B£A L £ HIGH-GRADE PI A NOS
“ The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details."
CARL VADER PIANOS.
Prices: £49, 55* 60, 65. 70, 75, SO, 85, 95* 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
LIVERPOOL ST. (opposite Mark Foy’s), SYDNEY.
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. 25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
Head Office and Factories - - TRAFALGAR ST., ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


-inn
■
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
for Wedding' Gifts.
We have such
Do let us send
a lovely selection of New Designs
in Wedding Gifts.
you our Silverware Catalog—it’s free.
507-
ROSE BOWL, pure silver-plated,
handsomely embossed with ebony
plinth.
Other Designs, 30/-, 35/-, 60/-
20/-
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, fine crystal cut
glass, pure silver-plated, nickel-silver mounted.
17/6.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, pure sil-
ver-plated, hand-e ngra v e d
“Butterfly” design, specia'
value.
WE PERSONALLY
SUPERVISE ALL
ORDERS.
20/-
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, pure silver-
plated frame, fancy floral china.
Other Designs, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
20/-
15/6.
BUTTEK DISH and
KNIFE “Shell” shape,
finest silver-plated nickel
silver, satin glass.
WE PAY POSTAGE
ON ALL
SILVERWARE.
22/6.
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-plated,
handsomely embossed, highly burn-
ished.
18/6.
TEAPOT, pure silver-plated, richly engraved,
“Butterfly” design.
8/6.
HONEY JAR, pure silver-plated,
nickel-silver frame, thistle desigrn.
With Servers.
217-
HOT WATER JUG, pure sil-
ver-plated, hand-e ngraved
“Butterfly” design.
15/6.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS,
pure silver-plated, “Gadroon” design.
PICKLE JAR and
TONGS, pure silver-
plated, richly embossed,
fancy pressed glass.
217-
DINNER CRUET, pure silver-plated,
crystal glass bottles.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
U
■■
/
/
V ;> '
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently „
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
AutO'Strop
M f z et o y R
Standard Set, containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “Valet blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 25/-
Obtainable of all high-class Dealers
throughout Australasia.
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


The KODAK is
Welcome in Winter
The year is a succession of intimate personal
stories, and the Kodak way has so simplified
photography in all its branches that these stories
may be easily recorded, whatever the season,
whatever the condition.
Pirns in Winter all indoors invites your Kodak Camera. This
is the season for indoor portraiture. Groups, single figures, the
children in familiar home surroundings—all these are easily
made with a Kodak and Kodak Portrait Attachment. As for the
outdoors, with its leafless trees and hardy sports, it holds many a
good time for you, and every good time is a good time to Kodak.
Ket Kodak make the most of the Winter’s pleasures for you.
m
\w
<
'
NEW KODAK CATALOGUE,
fully illustrated, and replete with
valuable photographic information,
sent free on request.
THE VEST-POCKET KODAK
—the smallest made—dainty, efficient, compact.
Fits a waistcoat pocket or lady’s handbag, takes
pictures x works in daylight, and is
fitted with a carefully selected Lens, Ball-bearing
Shutter, Brilliant Reversible Finder, and - A)
Auto-time Scale.
It’s Kodak Time
All the Time.
The 3a FOLDING POCKET KODAK
is just the Camera for you. Its pictures measure
x 3^in. ; it has a capacity of six to ten
exposures without reloading, and is beautifully fitted
throughout. Works in daylight all - .
the way. Price •fc4/10/ =:
KODAK LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 370 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street,
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: East Street.
BROKEN HIDE: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
“THE DOVER” REXOPHONE
Has the Quality of the Living Voice.
The great and regular increase
in the sale of “REXO-
PHONES” emphasises the ex-
cellence of these machines.
For the outlay of from 37/6
to £8 it is possible to obtain
a talking machine of unequalled
merit.
“THE DOVER” —illustrated
here —is a representative ex-
ample of how much quality
and value can be obtained for
little money in the purchase of
“Rexophones.”
Note these
90|-
"Dover” Features.
Fine, dark-polished, Solid Oak Cab-
inet; Hinged Lid, giving easy
access to motor for oiling or adjust-
ment; Double-spring Swiss Worm
Gear; plays about three records for
one winding of motor; Smooth and
Silent Running; Patent Seamless
Horn with 20Mn. Bell; entire absence
of jarring; Tapering Tone Arm with
Swan neck.
“THE DOVER” is a most handsome(machine. Allnsible metal parts are nickel
Dlated. “THE DOVER” is equipped with NUMBERED SI LED INDICATOR,
permitting perfect control of the reproduction. The sound-box is the loudest and
clearest made —Rexophone Model A.
To own a Rexophone of the excellence of “THE DOVER” is to have at your
instant command the famous Singers, Instrumentalists, Bands Orchestras and
Specialist Entertainers of the world. A Galaxy of Talent which formerly would
have cost hundreds of pounds to hear, the Rexophone gives you for a few shillings.
And instantly, too! At any time—day or night!
ALSO
“The Bute,” 37/6; “The Camp.” £3; “The Kent,” £6;
“The York,” £8; “The Syd,” 701-
Wp stock records of all the Popular Singers, Instrumental Solos and
Duets Band Selections, Sacred Vocal Selections, etc., and will furnish
Catalogues of Records on receipt of postcard.
Inquire for them from your Store-
keeper, or write to us ior Catalogue.
STOREKEEPERS ARE INVITED
TO SEND FOR TRADE LISTS.
JacKson &. Macdonald,
457 KENT STREET, Corner Pruitt Street, SYDNEY.
Stewart Dawson s Co.
(AUST.) LIMITED.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
Here are some New Designs in Brooches at
prices from which all middle profits are
eliminated.- You benefit, for we sell to you
at FIRST COST PRICES.
I
0352.—9 ct. Gold BROOCH, set
with Australian Tourmalines,
30/-
02838. —9ct. Gold, Pearl and
Tourmaline set BROOCH,
226
0340.—9 ct. Gold BROOCH, set
with Fine Garnet,
• 11/0
0334.—9 ct. Gold BROOCH,
Special Value,
3/6
We pay postage on all goods to any address.
Write for a copy of our Beautiful Illustrated Art
Catalogue, sent post free on request.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 2! Hatton Garden, E.C.


Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received up to 11 a.m. on
Tuesday, 22nd July, 1913, for the Manufac-
ture, Supply, and Delivery of 4 Wheel Brake
Vans (3ft. 6in. gauge).
Drawings, Specifications, etc., will be on
view on and after 24th June, 1913, at the
undermentioned offices: —
Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne.
Commonwealth Works Director, Cus-
toms House, Sydney, and
Commonwealth Works Registrars, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth, and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be fl Is. and for each plan 55., which
must be paid before the documents <jan be
issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
4 Wheel Brake Vans,” and are to be accom-
panied by the deposit mentioned in the Form
of Tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS.
Minister of State for External Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, June 5, 1913.
Tenders for Teak for Weather-Decks of
H.M.A.S. Brisbane.
Amended Advertisement.
npENDERS will be received, subject to
I the conditions of tendering, until 12
NOON on WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20,
1913 (extended from JUNE 30, 1913), for
the supply of Teak for H.M.A.S. Bris-
bane. The material is to be delivered f.o.b.
at the Commonwealth Dockyard, Cockatoo
Island, Sydney.
Tender form and specification can be ob-
tained from the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne, or from the Dis-
trict Naval Officer, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs
Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart.
Tender should be endorsed “Tender for
Teak” on top left-hand corner of the enve-
lope, and addressed (if by post, prepaid) to
the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
Melbourne ; or to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, care District Naval Officer, Sydney,
Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or
Hobart, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
FRANK G. TUDOR,
for Minister of State for Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, June 5, 1913.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Brown Canvas Shoes.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions of tendering, until 12
NOON on WEDNESDAY. JULY 2, 1913,
for the supply of Brown Canvas Shoes for
the Royal Australian Navy.
Sealed samples may be seen, and tender
forms and specifications may be obtained, at
the office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; or at the Naval
Staff Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart.
Tenders to be endorsed “Tender for
Brown Canvas Shoes” in top left-hand
corner of the envelope and addressed (if by
post, prepaid) to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, or to the
Director of Navy Contracts, care District
Naval Officer, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart, as the case
may be.
The lowest or a»y tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
forms.
FRANK G. TUDOR,
for Minister of State for Defence.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 7th June, 1913.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Temporary Appointments.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment (tem-
porarily) as follows: —
(1) SUPERINTENDING NAVAL
CIVIL ENGINEER for a period of not
less than twelve months, for duty at Hen-
derson Naval Base, Cockburn Sound, West-
ern Australia.
Candidates should not be less than 35
years of age and must have had thorough
training and experience in civil engineering,
office routine etc.
Pay will be at the rate of £5O per month,
inclusive of all allowances except travelling.
(2) NATAL CIVIL ENGINEER, 2nd
grade, for a period of not less than twelve
months, for duty at Flinders Naval Base,
Victoria.
Candidates should not be less -than 26
years of age, and must have had a‘thorough
training and experience in civil engineering,
etc. •
Pay wiM be at the rate of £25 per montlj,
inclusive of all allowances except travelling.
(3) NAVAL WORKS CLERK for a
period of not less than twelve -months at
the Navy Office, Melbourne.
Candidates must have a thorough know-
ledge of civil engineering and contractors’ or
builders’ matters and accounts, etc.
Pay will depend upon qualifications, but
will not exeeed £l7 10s. per month, inclu-
sive of all allowances except travelling.
Full particulars regarding the above
appointments can be obtained on applica-
tion to the Naval Secretary, Navy Office,
Melbourne, or to the District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs
Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart.
Applications endorsed “Superintending
Naval Civil Engineer,” “Naval Civil
Engineer, 2nd Grade,” or “Naval Works
Clerk” (as the case may be), must reach
the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne, not later than 7th July,
1913.
S. A. PETIiEBRIDGE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
nn lIE Best Stories written by Australian
I Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, Oil. monthly.
CRAIG and DONALD’S Punching,
Shearing and Angle-Cutting Machines.
ENGINE, BELT or MOTOR DRIVE.
also
Combined Bending and Straightening Rolls, Plate-edge Planers, Rail
and Joist Straighteners, Flanging Machines, Drilling Machines and all
Heavy Machinery incidental to Dockyards, Railways, Structural
Engineering Shops, etc.
BENSON BROTHERS
(Sole Agrents for
Australia),
We Stock All Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
i,Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
Do you want to
look manlier ? Then
fet
CAPILLARINE.
Xt is a moustache-grower with a record of 30 Years’ success. Follow
the directions, and you will not be disappointed. Can be applied at
bedtime. Growth will be permanent.
p,:, 0 Irt/fi UR Pn«t Prop The C - & A Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
rrice IU/0 JAK, rosi free, shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free.
ADAir O, A ITWCIVI 654 George Street, Sydney
vrtAlU Ot Ml I rVCII, Established 30 Years.
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF-No Inferior Fillings, c . n .r «/
If not obtainable fro n your dealer, refer Sample DOXeS 01 DU, ID/-
PARTRIDQE ABERCROMBY LTD., LOFTUS MORAN,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney. 231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Richardso:. Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful links in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
“The World wide Whiskey."
Burke’s **:
A WhisKey of unique value,
mellow, light and digestive.
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
MM
MX
v?-a
*2
rtr.
for EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT CO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Briseina. 1 Ji-4 Victoria Street, Wellington, H Z
“Mr. Gumboil, J.P.”: It was my custom
to sniff contemptuously at any newspaper
mention of the kleptomania plea; and then
came one Arabella Gubbit, who converted
me to the kinder belief. We secured
Arrerbeller (so she called herself) from a
certain religious institution, and, on the
strength of various anaemic references and
vague recommendations, agreed to allow her
a few bob a week and keep in return for
offering a passable impersonation of a ’elp
to Mrs. G. Things dragged along anyhow
for a few weeks; and then an evil spirit
seemed to seize upon our home and our time-
payment belongings. Everything went
wrong. Nothing was ever in its place. Most
important utensils were always missing.
Household articles and personal properties
seemed to vanish and hide themselves at
critical moments. Mrs. Gumboil was be-
coming bad-tempered and careless of her
hair. Arrerbeller was liable to spasms of
weeping and miserable protestations. And
even next-door’s cat, which consistently
lodged with us, chucked up its job and ran
away to sea. Verily, things went from bad
to worse. One morning, whilst furiously
regarding my diminished wardrobe and
hunting profanely and noisily for my last
and only collar, I heard a timid shuffling in
the doorway. Turning, I met the sad, re-
proachful glare of Arrerbeller’s watery-green
eyes, as she proffered me a collar. As
already mentioned, Arrerbeller evolved from
some religious refuge for stray cats, and
this probably accounted for the unusual
flush of color that almost banished the
freckles from her sad, lean face. “Er —
thanks. .. .where did y’ find this?” I asked,
with forced graciousness. “L-l-laundry j-just
come,” stammered the distressed damsel as
she shuffled away sadly. Presently Mrs. G.
came in. “Did I hear her say that came
from the laundry?” she asked. “Well, there
hasn’t been any laundry yet this week!”
She stood a moment in tragic reflection.
“Now I’ve got an idea ; I want you to come
with me.” I followed her to the door of
Arrerbeller’s room. “But where’s the girl?”
I asked. “That’s right,” replied Mrs. G.,
“I’ve sent her to the grocer’s for a penn’uth
of clothes pegs.” She entered the room, and
going to Arrerbeller’s trunk opened it and
lifted some clothes from the top. She then
dived her arm down and rummaged about
thoroughly,but without success. There was
a nasty look in her eye as she arose and
stood a moment in baffled reflection. Then
suddenly she leant over the girl’s bed, and,
putting her bands under the mattress, tossed
it over, bedding and all. There was from
both of us a gasp of angry satisfaction,
which died away into silent amazement as
we gazed on the weird collection that lit-
tered the wires beneath. There were four
collars, two tablespoons, one of Mrs. G.’s
stockings, a packet of hairnins, little Casey
Gumboil’s newest hat. a framed color-print
and one of my rolled-gold sleeve-links. Also
a boot-brush, five corks, a saucepan lid. a
leaden soldier, a new bottle of ink, a child’s
old shoe, an apple, a pair of scissors, a piece
of flooring-board, the mouthpiece of a clario-
net, an unopened tin of curry powder and
an old pair of spectacles. “Well, isn't she a
bird?” gasped Mrs. G. “A bower-bird.” I
agreed. As she was pulling the bedding back
into position there sounded a muffled clink
from within. Mrs. G. eagerly pulled down
the coverings—and revealed a tube of face
cream and an old-fasbioned portrait of a
venerable, kindly-faced gentleman with
long, limnid side-whiskers and a Gladstone
collar. That settled'it. Mrs. G. . might have
been forgiving; but she was absurdly 7 sensi-
tive about some things. She was jealous of
her family’s good name, and had been par-
ticularly "proud of her respected grand-
parent. who had recently strayed mysten-
ously from his customary place on the what-
not "in the parlor. So Arrerbeller had to
go ! I don’t know what became of her alter
that, but I hope she found peace in a Home
for stray Magpies or a Retreat for Decrepit
Second-hand Dealers. Poor Arrerbeller!
In Melb. Criminal Court last week Judge
Hodges directed the jury to find that a man
charged with manslaughter was not
guilty. The police had earned this nasty
jar in the matter of the death of on ®. „ c ’
namara at Collingwood “sw'amp. It was
the result of a drunken brawl, in wnicn
the men concerned were tumbling about, as
his Honor put it. The man charged by the
police might have inflicted the injuries wh cn
terminated Mac’s insobriety; or any oi ine
other men might have been .solely res P
sible for the fatality, or it might have been
a mixed manslaughter. The Judge
that “it was questionable whether ahjon
knew who really inflicted the injuries,
the police had fixed the crime on one par-
ticular man and got him committed to •
anyhow. In short, the police said be wa»
guilty, and the Judge told the jury *
the police couldn’t possibly know or eve
reasonably feel certain that he wa .
case is in glaring contrast with that
man in the same district, or thereabout
who was shot dead at his front door
ago. whilst a party w T as nroceedi g
domicile. There had been unpieasantne
during the festivities, and two or n
guests left the house enraged, P r were d
the host being murdered w'hen he answe
a ring, or knock. In that case nobody was
arrested, or even named in PHut. e j ge
man was named, of course,' but no y
got so much publicity.
Come to grief, after 40 years’
with D. Jones, the yacht Norna. T
packet was built regardless of expen
1873 as a pleasure craft, and spent most
its career with pleasure at the
beauty down having her health d , j n
cabin. About eight years ago it arrivea
Sydney and was sold for sordid H g a( j s
poses. The first tune it cleare^ the
with a money-making cargoJ b °
thought of its previous glory was too m
and the Norna wept 'throughever
Hurried back to port in tun • this
crew, it was patched up and sold aga ,
time to a Sydney doctor, After G : ‘ r d sud .
Sydney ostensibly as a yacht
denly returned loaded to the g f or .
copper and brass, salvaged r-mific. Bast
gotten wrecks dotted about the the
year it lefts to look for the Yongala and
£l2OO reward offered by the W lee^ ;
Government. The search wa w jth more
but a fortnight asm it left & g a •j t liner,
clues as to the whereabouts e th inff —a l ' eef
And this time it found something Us
inside the Great Barrier, whereon «
-old bones to rest. The crew escai


THORNE’S oh m WHISKY
The Pure Glenlivet Spirit
THE Glenlivet district of Scotland has been from time immemorial
identified with the production of the finest Scotch Whisky.
And in point of Quality, Wholesomeness and Mellowness,
THORNE’S OLD HIGHLAND MALT WHISKY
is a worthy product of this famous district.
The “ THORNE ” FLAVOR —that distinctive
something ’ ’ which is peculiar to this splendid spirit
is the achievement of 80 years of ripe experience. It is
the result of skilful blending and patient ageing. The
man of taste declares THORNE’S WHISKY
INCOMPARABLE
ir?
v. ;v'
Kk
SJ
'
r.
*•*
V
u>.
sWFtwtA
-r
Ymss:
/
<ma
-A
ft
m
\\\v
/,
House of Commons
m
ill
Sftisi
R.THORNE & Sons. Limited
Greehock Distillery
Lion Housi TowriHut- LONDON. I C
T*ADC ' CvTA&UfeHt
lS3i.
L;w f
S 3
•«
<Yt
imk.
; ? V-. .
V
Y-iAIMi-
-1, MSfSISiSSr
(PF $Wi
i p> m j
u »<? • *»
; ••
K .^gfeffcgs
as&sm
mm
sm
v MJ
U ;
■ :*v ;
5’A
'
XT? * ;


HORSESHOE
SALMON
is a Rich Red Fish of exquisite flavor. It is the
most useful and wholesome of canned fish, and
can be used either direct from the tin or served
up in many appetising and delicious forms.
Horseshoe is all Quality and Flavor.
ATTACKED SUDDENLY.
“I was attacked with influenza, and got so ill that
I had to go to bed,” writes Mr. A. Mayall, boot-
maker, Taukau (N.Z.). “My wife went to Green
and Colebrooke’s store to get something for me; they
told her to give me Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
and she brought a bottle home. I am glad to say
that it cured me, and in less than a week I was as
well as ever and back at work.”*
“Betty Wayside,” a new novel by Louis Stone
(author of “Jonah”), begins in the July Lone
Hand.*
Public Notice.
THE TONGKA H HARBOUR TIN
DREDGING CO., N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
MOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend
1 * (the eleventh) of ten per cent. (25.) per
share has been declared Payable on 22nd July, 1913,
amounting to £15,000, and for this purpose the
Share Register will be closed ffdm Jsth to 22nd
July inclusive. ,1 ivtoi,-
Hobart, 13th June, 1913. M £
m
Lonsdale Velour
251- Post Free.
This is the most fashion-
able Hat in Australia to-day
—the real Austrian Plush;
beautiful rich finish in spe-
cial shades of Green, Brown,
Slate, Mole, Reseda and
Black.
The brims are about two to
two and a half inches wide,
with wide band and bow at
back.
PRICE 25/- POST
FREE TO ANY PART
OF AUSTRALIA.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block
M BRISBANE.
iir
IN BANANA LAND
Another instance of the ghastly mistake
of Government repurchase of big estates at
boom prices—said boom prices being
largely due to the presence of the Govern-
ment in the market. A few years ago, amid
the enthusiastic cackle of the press, the
Government bought Jimbour and cut it up.
To-day the settlers are wailing that they
cannot meet their payments, and one of
them offers to give back his acres to the
State if the Department will only return
him within £5OO of what he has paid.
Under section 81 of the new Wowser
Liquor Act no licensee may keep his hotel
open for the sale of liquor on Sundays, and,
under section 85, every person found on the
premises except an inmate, lodger or ser-
vant, is liable to a fine of £5. Consequently
when 250 persons travelled recently by a
Sunday excursion train from Many Peaks
to Gladstone, a distance of 50 miles, the
publicans of the town of lost opportunities
refused to unlock the doors to the exhausted
wanderers until the dinner bell rang. Then
they were admitted, but upon finishing then-
dry meals they were immediately pushed out
again. A team of footballers who were
among the excursionists (they play football
on Sundays in certain heathen portions of
Bananaland) rushed upstairs in an hotel to
have a wash and change their clothes, but
the indefatigable local policeman pushed in
with the cold news that they must all come
off the premises till the dinner bell rang.
All subsequent invitations to that police-
man to referee or play in the match were
declined. >
Legislative Councillor A. H. Barlow,
speaking at a recent Chamber of Commerce
dinner, alluded to his House of Fossils as “a
sepulchral Assembly with seldom an audi-
ence,” and added that that body required
strengthening. This idea of “strengthening”
a sepulchre adds further to Barlow’s reputa-
tation as an unconscious humorist. '
Brisbane has just had its first Manufac-
turers’ Exhibition, which showed quite a
lot of people that Australians can do other
things beside squeezing butter out of cows
and tearing wool off the sheep’s back. The
exhibits were pretty miscellaneous, from
blankets to boots, and from stones to sad-
dlery. But the most striking feature of all
was the 80-ton loco, which the Railway De-
partment ran into Market Square. It was
turned out of the Government workshops at
Ipswich, and can haul 200 tons up the one-
in-50 grades, and round the five-chain curves
of the Main Range at 20 miles an hour.
The deplorable point about it is that the
raw material, which ought to be torn out
of Australian mines and blasted in Aus-
tralian furnaces, has still to be imported.
But we shall not be long before we change
that, too!
RUSHING TO HIS DOOM.
EXCITED SMALL BOY: “Hey, Mr. Tanks, there's a burglar crawlin' up your front steps
this very minute.”
MR. TANKS: “Poor devil, the missus'll think it's me.”
Of those who helped Wullie Kidston to
form the Coalition in 1908 Grant is now
the only one left in the State Assembly. The
party machine is becoming a deadly con-
trivance for all but the hacks of politics.
Another borrowing fowl comes home to
roost. The Rockhampton Harbor Board,
whose business it is to keep scraping the
mud off the bottom of the 40 miles of creek
that joins that town to the big water, pays
£16,000 interest and redemption out of an
income of £31,000. Now it finds that it will
have to abamdon all the money spent on the
creek, or face a heavy deficit on the foolish
Port Alma guaranteed railway. Which comes
of the perversity of man in insisting on
going info debt to make a harbor where
Nature never intended a harbor to be.
From a man in the business :
Bananaland might well incline its eye to the pavi-
lion school which has just been opened at Ooogee in
the Ma State. The North cries aloud for something
in that line. The old prejudice against the “unin-
habitable north” is mainly the outcome of political
bias or of the foolishness of sundry well-meaning
souls who persist in the habits and customs of other
climates. The school buildings are a particularly
shocking example of what they ought not to be with
their low roofs, high windows, little ventilation and
frightfully limited floor and air space. Further, the
whole business is carried on indoors. With a sort
of belief born of habit that anything learnt out of
doors is not educational, the pedagogue imprisons his
youngsters, and within bare, sombre walls he de-
ceives himself that he is building up the future man.
Even when the summer is upon them, it is iust the
same; they mope inside, while outside even the gum
trees invite them to come into the open and liv%.
When Mother Drops the Pan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London Daily Express states that married women
are being urged to start a union for the purpose of
securing a fair share of their husband’s wages. The
union relies, as a Anal weapon, on the downing of
pots and pans.— Cable.
She’s sick of stirrin’ porridge and she’s tired
of skimmin’ soup,
She’s had enough of trottin’ round when
Tommy has the croup,
She’s sick of hearin’ when the Boss is half
a-flood with beer —-
“’Ere’s ’arf a quid to run the ’ouse —now
don’t be nasty—’Ere !”
It’s time, she reckons, she was paid as well
as mighty man,
And if we don’t consider her she says she’ll
drop the pan.
When Mother drops the pot
And Mother downs the pan,
I guess you’ll find that things are hot
When Mother drops the pan.
She reckons 15 hours a day is just a trifle
strong . .
When hubby reckons eight a day (for him)
are rather long;
When sittin’ up at 10 p.m. to darn the socks
an’ sew .
She wants to know if overtime ain’t gettin
all the go;
And if it is and if it means an extra bit o
tin.
She’d like to know before you go: Now
where do I come in?”
True, scrubbin’ at the pot
And scourin’ at the pan
' For many a year has been her lot,
But now she drops the pan.
It’s peelin’, peelin’ taters and it’s puttin’ on
the grill, , . ,
It’s keepin’ down expenses and its paym up
the bill, . , .
It’s cleanin’ up the kiddies and it s patchin
up the clo’es .
And gazin’ with suspicion on her hubby s
ruddy nose;
And, if you’re payin’ wages to the one as
does the work,
When Mother puts her hand out am t the
proper time to shirk.
The dickens take the pot,
Just leave it to the man ;
She’s done with worry on the spot,
And so she drops the pan !
There was a time the poet sang a song about
3, shirt
But Mother says it’s time they sang about
her fight with dirt, -
Her fight with croup and measles and her
skirmish with the rent,
Her battle with the grocer when her purse
h<is ne’er 3 cent,
Her scrum for Joe and Jimmy when their
boots are down at heel,
Her everlastin’ wash-up at the close ot ev ry
meal.
But now the blessed Pot
Is resting by the Can ;
And all the Dishes lie forgot.
For Mother’s dropped the Pan;
I guess you’ll find that things are hot,
I guess you’ll find it time to trot.
When Mother drops the Pan!
QUEENSLAND.
MOTHER o’ TEN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 20, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
Governor Macgregor is expected back
from Rockhampton to-morrow night, and
will put in the week-end at the family lean-
to. On Monday he will lift Matilda once
more and move on for Gayndah and Towns-
ville. At the former place he will open his
1784th Show, and I know nobody better
qualified for the pastime. Still, it seems a
reckless waste of expensive individual. Now,
if his Ex. were to visit the shearing sheds
in turn and do a bit o’ something useful —
wouldn’t that be a surprise for the low-
minded disloyalists who are continually ap-
pealing to high Heaven to be told what
Governors are for?
At Townsville, the vice-regal sundowner
will declare open the new tropical School of
Medicine, which institution owes so much
to Bishop Frodsham. By the way, he with
the rigging on his hat recently told the
Corn it ill Magazine a lovely Hans Ander-
sen about N.Q. He alleged that he was
standing on a wharf amongst cane-cutters,
“drunks” and others when a small child
piped to its adjacent parent: “Mumrnie,
how old is God?” The mother rebuked her
offspring, but one of the cane-cutters took
the kid by the'arm and, pointing to Frod-
sham, said : “Ask the bloke in leggings ; he’s
one of the firm.”
I nearly forgot about Parliament. Weil,
my dear, the usual mob mustered, especially
the Hon’bles, all showing a vast expanse of
shirt front. The Paget child came with her
grandma and the Vision, and gazed with big,
round eyes at the show. When the Mac-
gregor appeared in his kilts and all his brav-
ery, his war-paint, his sporran and his
spleuchan, his glen, his haggis, his sneeshin’-
mull, his dirk, his fiery cross and his usque-
baugh, not to mention his kirk and his blue
bonnet, the small granddaughter seemed
mightily inclined to hail him cheerfully, but
refrained. Among the new members was E.
T. Bell, of Fassifern. His wife (once
Pauline Taylor) was in one of the pens, and,
as usual, looked smart and well-dressed.
Mrs. Jimmy Blair was a study in brown,
and also deserved honorable observation.
Mrs. Dave Bowman in grey, and Mrs. Hux-
ham in a business-like tailored coat and
skirt, were noticeable on reserved chairs.
The University Sports Union printed
cards for a dance in the Technical College
Hall on Wednesday evening last, but as it
omitted to mention at what hour the cavort-
ing began, some people arrived at 7.30, de-
termined not to be late, and others at nine
o’clock, determined not to be too early. Sen-
sible girls filled their programmes during the
week, and arrived with an air of sweet calm
at quarter to nine. There were four debu-
tantes (one wonders when the supply
of new young girls will be exhausted).
Two of them were the twin
of A S. Phillips, of Taringa. Th ev
exactly alike, from their pretty pink fL* er ®
the last, least bead on their shiSmerv wl.i °
dresses. Tall Miss Smith, ina pro r i»M
named “Weenie,” and Miss Hyde St
other buds. * were the
No sooner did the Methodist Confer™
quieten down than the Y.W.C.A '
buzz. Miss Barnes of Noo York'(a ! an to
I believe, of the Gunter man) is here S’
ing an American voice in the good can, ‘
I don’t quite know what the lady S*'
beyond that she hopes every living W om™
will join the Association; but I suspect
building cadge looms near. I do hrm
Thargomindah, that you are not so sZi
in paganism as to be providing f or Vn u,
own old age when so many worthy obim,
are perishing for more money so near vo„!
door. Do give the money you were saving
up for a new frock to the cause a nt
struggle along with your old frock auH
think of the shining garment that awaik
you hereafter.
The carnival of nations, which was to
have obliterated the reputation of all other
•shows of a similar nature, since Adam’s
circus went broke at Eden, was doused in
last night’s heavy weather. The ram
soaked the Exhibition Grounds, where some
SOO kidlets were to have performed, aud
Secretary Arvier refused to let their united
hoofs cut up tne sacred oval where fat bul-
locks and prize aldermen will merrily gyrate
the month after next. It was hard "luck
for the youngsters and the mothers who
made the wonderful garments after (in
some cases a long way after) the fashion
of the various nations of the earth. The
sporting child, too, who spent many weary
afternoons getting his fleetest William goat
into training for the races which were to
have been run, speaks of the weather bit-
terly as being “a cow.”
At Marlow’s theatre, Ethel Buckley, who
has been playing Nan. the London waif,
■with some success, will be Cigarette to-
night and on two other occasions. Last
time I saw her in “Under Two Flags” she
was rather hampered with an exceedingly
portly hero, who looked about as unlike the
languid and aristocratic Bertie as it was
humanly possible to do. Mackay is miles
more suitable, so the play should benefit,
At the old Royal, King’s dramatic co. has
done with “The Greed of Gold.” and to-
night will produce “The’Man She Loves,"
The advertisement announces that this per-
son attracted 50.000 ladies w r hile in London.
Now, I ask you, what is one among so
many?
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The latest appointments to Queensland's
House of Adipose are well up to the stan-
dard. They are Edward Barrow Forrest.
Thomas Bridson Cribb and R. M. Collins.
The average age of the trio is over 70. The
idea apparently is that the Council is a
haven of refuge for old-age pensioners.
Forrest is 75. This is not his first appear-
ance in the Chamber of Fat. He was
M.L.C. from 1883 till ’99, when he resigned
to contest North Brisbane, which he repre-
sented in the Assembly till 1912. He lost
the seat to railway-porter Ivirwan at the
last State election. In spite of his years he
is considerably more vigorous than some oi
the other tenants of the House of Sleep-
such as Barlow, who represents the Govern-
ment there. Cribb has also been an M.L.C.
before —in 1893-G. Then he went to the
Assembly and represented the double;
barrelled constituency of Ipswich from 1896
to 1904, when Ryott Maughan beat him.
Cribb was Treasurer from 1901 to 1903 in
Philp’s Ministry. He is a mere youngster
of 68. Collins’s chief qualification is the
possession of hordes of cattle and vast quan-
tities of land. He sat in the Assembly for
the Albert in the middle ’9o’s, and as he
was born in 1843 he has reached the years
of discretion.


1M
- m
*
;\ ' *v.
J
■
*&&£■& ;v v - ~ -
- *: r.
*M
4HSI&&
W
" •: i..- <*. • ■
#*
w?p
-• ■*
\,Y'
■■ ■■ «?•
c?
, y
■ . V-'
I.
i
WHM|
O'
kUI
JY
4
A ~
'\\
?
/
/
/ J
mw^-
7
"*9k
:
ww
I
.
. »• . . »t . ■>■.. •
fl
■Kflwwi
•- ■ ,
.5. . •...
§
w&
K*f
'
■J - ■ • :|
', i
o>
■
v 'v
A
## •# ‘ ;>» - s3B*.
m
. .> X
m
:,. %
VA
k
,
k
r \ y
MSKSRHsB£^
*
i.7PM
j
m
\
#3
W
, 41 - :
*jjr . , y . '
Vi ■ ': ,«•
«.!, V
&
■; •-• ‘
;
m
v fm lt*r
\
fetW ti
0 \ <% .:/
V £
WM
i SS AV
'1 I
S 5«
:• M
<S
y'-'-’-fciVy
m
LI
”
K_A
• (
v
y’i'-' ':7‘7
7 >
-'- ' : \v'
i i
A GOOD FINISH TO A GOOD DAY
W3TSON SvrlO'WH ISKV


Shipping.
P . and O. BRANCH SERVICE. !
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
BENALLA .. ..j 1 miftotids .. ..(June 28
BELTANA .. ..11,120 Lingham .. ..;Julv 1»
BALLARAT ~ hl.l2f> ! Hanson . ■ ■ ■ Aug, in
Wireless ms uueu.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. <te £l7 1/8.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON. LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited. V
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA EN GLAN I>.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Oabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing rverv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE- ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin* Pi-ace. Syiiket.
Banking, Public Companies, Xcc.
II-
Minimum
Deposit.
§M
Have YOU a
Bank Account ?
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
If not, open one by Depositing
at least ONE SHILLING In the
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
116 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
1 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
No Connection with
the Post Off ce.
J. H. DAVIES,
Seer-tary.
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
™ e jjank of [|orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed-Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
head OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. I’. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH. Esq. (Burns, l’hilp k Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. It. LQVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE.
Australian jjank of Commerce
” LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
lIU.AD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man : Gkorgb »I. SI.Y, Esq., LI..D. ; Ouas. 11.
Mvi.r.s, Esq.; Mark Sheldon. Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, F.sq ; I rank N. Yauwook, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all tiie principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers'to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30. 3 921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,590 14 6
Reserve •• •* •• ** 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 18V$ specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Miinro, Esq. (Chairman) : John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Running,
Esq. ; Hon. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS. —
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per an«lmi : 2
vears ard over, at the rate of 41 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The C°i° Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
O j FOR t
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
At nuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Officf. :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358.229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5.600.000.
Policies Unconditional. Unchallengeable. Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chiff Office for New South V ai.es:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
'be Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.
"lie Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.,
A. ROSS MILLER.
G., M.L.C., Chairman.
, M.P.
Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYF.R, VAN ROMPARY k Co., Melbourne;
11. MURCKE A CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO.. Perth and Fremantle;
THOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of neu) Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GROK OR STKRRT.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. . . £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . .... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
. . . . . . . . 500.000
Uncalled Capital 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
CRANTS DRAFTS
tain and
Ireland.
on Australia, New
land, Fiji. Great
and other planes.
Zea-
llri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
%
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, about JULY 9.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
PERSIC, about, AUG. 26.
CERA MIC, 1 S,OOO tons, about SEPT. 24
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 oto £24 3 0
Londoi 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Oav of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Aeents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Fast Passenger Steamers
For y
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping for
other Queensland
Ports). J
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 tons).
Leaves Sydn.ey June 28
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 2
Leaves Sydney July 5
BOMBALA (4000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 9
Leaves Sydney July 12
For
MELBOURNE
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Sydney June 28
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
66
BURNS-PHILP.
99
Round-the-lslands Tours.
Round-Australia Tours.
Round-the-Pacific Tours.
Round-the-Far-East Tours.
AUSTRALIA’S
Leading
Tour and Travel
Agents.
We Book You to Any Part ot the World.
We Estimate and Schedule Any Trip, FREE I
We Issue Letters of Credit, Secure Passports, etc.
We Relieve Our Clients of All Worry.
We Materially Save Expenses and Delays.
We Offer an Unparalleled Choice of Tours.
NOTE : If meditating a Holiday Trip, a Honeymoon Trip, or a Business Trip, communicate with our
TOUR CSh
B 'JRNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
TRAVEL DEPT.
Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES,
5r
DIRECTORS:
£3,253,540
£2,250.000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaeKellar, lit., 1
President. . T n
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M. 8.0.
Thomas BucUland, Rsq.
.L.C.,
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The lion. Sir wormand MacLatirin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
T() Shepheard EdgecliS Office-29 Ihrcadnceclle St., EC
3®5 a ßra°Jhe?°an® the \usmlian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents the World. Foreign places DITIF.CT. Foreign Rills-negotiated
Cable remittances made to, and Drafte d No J s is s lie d NFGOTJ Am . B , THIIOIJGrfoUT THE
and collected. Letters of Credit and Citcuia . RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
WORLD. I
THE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lartv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFE’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting; with one of the Cotnpany s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa. \
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail arid steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply: •
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital .
..£1,750,000 0 0
.. 1,580.000 O 0
.. 1,750,000 0 0
£5,080,000 0 0
DIRECTORS :
George J. Cohen, Esq .. .. Chairman.
Hon 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Ossnov Thompson, Esq.
Norman Siiem.ey, Esq.
Auditors; W, L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throuahout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
"TtesqfVe 'Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).- 76,500
£ 77 3 Bfi 1
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 1 - 1 —
Gen Man >ldwd. D Dav. Asst. Man. :E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
\<»ents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LON E
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.” .
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Climaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wifeless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOP ART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED). '
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.'
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports.
T.S.S. WaHWa, J u i v
and August 2.
Fi t ted W i reiessTelegrranhv
8000 tons. Carrvii,!;
Three Classes, l'g 3
and 4-Berth Cabins?
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Osiirns.
S.S. Allinga, July 5.
S.S. I nnamincka, July \=>
■T.S.S. Wandilla (8000 ton*)’
fitted Wireless Tele-
graphy, July )9.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable af'c-
the first Port of call with other inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can h"
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Routs
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
' Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN RM
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Raihvav.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
♦New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab’ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphv.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STI-AM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to London and Liverpool.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11 900 Tons. PAGE, Commander.
Will he despatched from —
SYDNEY, JULY 19.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool cliainbers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout.
Return and Hoiiihl Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Suez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London.. £4O £l3/13/-to £l7/17/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
IT. JONES & CO.. LTD.. Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY— _J
SONOMA .. .. | June 28 I Aug. 23 | Orb 18 I Dec, ljj
VENTURA .. | July 26 i Sept. 2b | Nov, lo j J ;i
The through trip to England can be
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San F
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., OKIE. - •
N.D.L., N.Z .8. Co. and S. S. * ADD*
Tel "82 City. Apply—AA P,TT STREET,
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland p °. rts ’
Adelaide, West Australia and H)t
*T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
♦T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”... 7000 tons
♦T.S.S*. “KYARRA”
♦T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
♦Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy
Winter Tours to Cairns ar,d P H i an 7 beautiful
mended for the salubrious climate an A p.S.V
scenery, and Tourists wi JndJjat
Cov.’s steamers posses, all up » 0 trave i safe,
for convenience and comfort, p first and
easy and pleasant. After first X* with all
Second Saloon Tickets ary l : nion S.S. Coy s
Interstate Cbmpanie., p-" ' 1 ",,/ ~, ~, on applg
BSTr<»"*St »» p,pm
mSTtfi®' « COMM*.
Agents, H BRIDGE 3TREET, SVPN^,
New Zealand Insurance Cui.
FIRE, MARIKE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPA^ ent Rlte ,.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LO - T gypNE*
FIRE and MARINE BRAN^: p 7 .1 T s trEET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 2 17 k Joint Manage
J. A. MINNBTT & A. L. D AROV.
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons


GLORIOUS TOURS to the
>
SOUTH SEA
and ....
EASTERN
PACIFIC
ISLANDS
by the Luxurious
Steamers,
T.S.S. ATUA, 3500 tons, JULY 15, 8 p.m.
T.S.S. TOFUA, 4400 tons, AUGUST 12, 8 p.m.
, built j or tropical climates. All Cabins
El " ln & b ! 1 , 00n ' and Social Hall on upper deck Per’
Th7 en K llatl0 J! and Electric Light throughout
daS to f7ti 3 a m Tir Bail o fro,n Sydney every 28
(Apia), FRIENDLY ISLANDS L r e J Uka)> SAMOA
Steamir f ? ) AUCKL AND, transhipping thencTto
Steamer for Sydney and Melbourne at frequent inter
linJtonV l°MS A mm A T a , nd TAHITI (via Wei-
snpmi in J 12. Passengers can
AORAWT d t ys Tahiti and return by R.M.S S.
Thie ls .fwf'f 5 ’ arnvin S S - Vdne y August 19.
mere is also a service every 28 davs from Anrlr
RAUTFl A a S ; r d E ?rAHIT? IFI ? f R °°T
p, 11 Al i- S , tearnprs fitted with Wireless,
cation /;, ar A: C "' arS - and descriptive Booklets on appli-
cation to the various offices in Australasia of the
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., Ltd.,
259 George Street, Sydney,
Hotels, &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert evei ■
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night..
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. UR,E SISIITH, Manager,
Cgstlereagh Street, Sydney.
/
\RABFS CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
foi Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Oiserve signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Geuine obtainable:—.
SYINEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS. W.
ASSOMIJLL and Stores.
MEBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
jELLAN'S. ALL CHEMISTS, w. assomull.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
• Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 Tt Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
“ The ktocar Imperial Year Book"
Wi’l be'ound invaluable to overseas
mo tori intending buyers of cars,
W-Sfax.
IMI'I )AL
IKAR^K
191
W
' .
ANO AH«S m '
tc
etc.
Contains a complete
list of cars on the
British market with
all details and prices ;
articles on chassis and
body design, car
lighting lubricating
systems, auxiliary
suspension, etc.;
freight charges and
duties ; World’s
records ; gear ratios ;
motor associations,
clubs, etc., etc., Well
illustrated.
Price 2/6,
Agents : Gordon iotch Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adtde, Perth, and Launceston
(Tasmania) ; Wyatt, Melbourne; Geo.
Robertson & C Ltd., Melboitrne, Sydney,
Adelaide and hbane.
Published by the Propnrs of “ The Autocar," 90 Tudor
Street,udon, England.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of Hustralta
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKIIUP Rlicnuccc
»2S2Sr“M^£^
th. Commonwealth, U„MI ami .SS **“*
_ . SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Brisbane rnovl. 3 Soge^ *si£W l7 %f inS V’, Melb »“-e; Queen Street,
Perth; Elizabeth! Street Hobart- and St ; forge’s Terrace,
at Post Offices which Mmo, a,h b h . (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies
1/- Minimum Deposit e^ e “ at any ottice within the Commonwealth.
TAMES KELL, Lrpiity (Fovkrnor 3/ ° R * f n !»‘mlf 8 * °" all De P° si t«* U P to £3OO
a ™< 19 'S DENISON MILLEIt, Govbrnob
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
otters a field S fho t * l f prO , CPSS of mitial development, Queensland
settler and to the honest worker. investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. SW. A. MESTON, Loca. Director C * TR ° EDS ° N ’ DireCt ° r -
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
■ AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Let us Talk of
The Silent
Empire
Biograph
is like the glorious British
Empire, inasmuch as it is
UNBEATABLE.
WE CAN
PROVE THIS.
Call and have a demon-
stration of this latest
marvel.
Empire.
This Machine is the re-
sult of years of experi-
ence, and to-day it stands
supreme in the picture
world.
It is Flickerless, Rock
Steady,Economical, Mal-
tese Cross Movement in
Oil Bath, Motor driven
or by hand.
In fact, there are none of
the good points of a per-
fect projector lacking.
“And Don’t We Know It.”
We shall be pleased to
prove its worth should
you call, or we can mail
you a DESCRIPTIVE
BOOKLET.
“ You Know the Firm.”
JERDANvS
My Opticians,
393 George St. Sydney.
20 /> Discount
off Table Silver.
Our experiment of a couple of years
ago of taking the wholesale catalogues
of the Great English Manufacturers of
Electro-Silver and Solid Silver Goods,
and deducting 20%, or 4/- in the £,
from their prices, was of a revolu-
tionary character, and might hawe
landed us in heavy loss, but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so ,we
are continuing the discount. It only
gives us a bare commission on many
lines, but commissions count if numer-
ous enough.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 8 25 HUNTER STREET.
Very heavily plated, on hard white metal, FRUIT and
NUT STAND. Dishes removable. Standing- llin.
high, £5/10/- (less 20% discount, £l/2/-), £4/8/-.
1
BARNET GIASS
WATERPROOF OCOATS
The "MAWS ON’*Model
Cut, modelled, and made
with as much care as a
high-priced suit. At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
BAPNETGIAS
[WATERPROOF GARMENTS
The “DENMAN” Model
Well-fitting, airy, free,
comfortable—a pleasure to
wear. Your Draper will
show you samples.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO LTD.,
Founders of the Rubber
Industry in Australasia,
ALL STATES and N.Z.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney ; n
289=93 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Abbey Shoes
are Preferred
by well-dressed men, by reason
of better materials, better
style, finer lines, and easier fit.
The boot illustrated is a Patent
Golosh Bal. Dull Calf leg.
Perforated Golosh, 27/6 and
Also, in Tan Willow
22/6, 25/- and 27/6.
Postage, extra.
Calf,
In half sizes and quarter fit-
tings.
WRITE FOR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street.
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The
Tod Sloan
Racing Saddle.
The picked favorite in all the Training
and Racing Stables throughout the Com-
monwealth. Those who are using Uhl’s
“Tod Sloan” cannot speak too highly.
Made from properly prepared Leather
well finished, mounted with Girth, Sur-
cingle, Leathers and Irons.
Write and ORDER yours NOW—be
sure and give weight—the saddle can be
built to any weight required.
A QUAL. B QUAL.
£slos. £5.
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd.,
Makers of Good Saddles,
Petrie Bight, BRISBANE.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIGARS
per 100
Imperials - 45/-
Idyllos - - 37/6
Diademas - 22/6
Gran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas - 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
order and I will deliver
Cigarb, all charges
paid, to any part of
Australia. Money Re-
turned in Full if
Buyer not satisfied
after smoking five or
six Cigars.
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any address on appli*
Only address
34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supper—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE VICi
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.


Sesame” Tin Opener.
The “open
Sesame” to
everything
but your
purse•
condense
MILK
s ARDINE' 5 rt
00
S. TINS
May be sold anywhere In
the Commonwealth for
THREEPENCE.
To get it quick send
Fourpence in stamps to —
‘SESAME,’ Box 98 C. P. 0., Sydney
References by permission:— _
“Have discarded all others"
-—Mrs. W. Garstang, “Coo-
ee,” Burfitt Street, Leich-
hardt, N.S.W.
“Would not be without it”
—Mrs. Lewis, “The Eyrie,”
Fox Valley Road, Warrawee.
“The best I have ever used”
—Mrs. Armstrong, - Myrtle
Street, North Sydney, N.S.W.
The Up-to-date Saddle
saddle Tilustrat'ed "below, which ’
strength and workmanship, combined with low price,
' X This I 'saddle' is manufactured in the best style,
with the comfort and durability of the Australian
saddle, and recommended to all classes of riders,
whether on the station, farm or for town use. Made
only from selected materials,' best English bar plate
tree, pig-skin seat and knee pads, extra long flaps
to buckle below, sk'rt right round, as a weather
protector, fitted with double buckle girth, stirrup
leathers and nickel-plated irons. The saddle can be
made to order with either full or half paneJ.
0 ffl
Price £3/19/6.
Freight paid to
anv station in
N.S.W. or port in
Queensland. Men-
tion The Bulle-
tin, and a sur-
cingle or pair of
spurs will be given
free.
Now is your op-
portunity ; secure
this great saddle
bargain from J. P.
Talty, Sydney’s
Saddle Specialist,
f? 88 Sussex St.
Write for illus-
trated Catalogue.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs. We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr.
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
OURCAT
ALOGU JO
illustrated)
'throughoi#
will be
posted free to those desirous of
chopping by mail. We sell, carriage
'paid, Jewellery. Watches. Gramo-
: phones, Guns, Novelties of all kinds,
many unobtainable elsewhere,
Rubber Stamps. Music Musical In-
struments, etc., etc. Sole agents for Wilson's F. r
I)rumsfor Deafness. Ramey's Medicator for Catarrh
Write, mentioning this paper to: —
RTI\R NnVF-LTY COMPANY, 0.., t m-'Vwh
Tlie NEW CENTURY TURNER,
2/6
carriage
PAID
OAIRIMi
ON ANY SEWING MACHINE
Our labor saving attachment
weaves a new heel or toe in
stocking in 3 minutes. Simple, Swift.
Send for J5O Pape Illustrated Catalogue, post free anvw'ere.
ONION MFC. CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Rlarvel Leather Stitcher
Complete 1/6,
CA.RJUA.GE
PAID.
Anyone can sole boots,
mend harness, sew leather,
rubber, canvas, &c., equal
to the best tradesmen.
POLL DIRECTIONS WITH KACH
UNION MFG. GO., 299 Elizabeth Str<
Amusements.
REPERTORY THEATRE, SYDNEY
K (FEDERATION HAI.E), GROSYENOR STREET .
(One minute from Georye St. Alight at Bridge St.).
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL RECITAL.
SATURDAY, JUNE *2B, at 8 p.m.
Re-engagement of the Talented hbndon Elocutionist,
* MISS MADELINE ROWSELL. and
MR. E. GILBURT HOWELL.
Assisted bv Distinguished Artists. Popular Prices : 3/-,
2/- 1/- Children half-price. Tickets obtainableatNiehol-
son’g Paling's, and Albert's Music Warehouses, iseats
can be at Nicholson’s, without extra charge.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything. Aus-
tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. ‘’A
marvellous ! ”
Amusements.
qlaka but t-r umf o r d tour.
J. & N. TAIT present Madame
CLARA BUTT,
And Mr.
KENNERLEY RUMEORD.
SYDNEY SEASON,
JUNE 26, 28; JULY 1,3, 6.
BRISBANE SEASON,
JULY 17, 19, 21.
TOUR-
-Under the Direction of J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne.
H. MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
NEXT SATURDAY, JUNE 28.
J. C. WILLIAMSON (by arrangement with Mr. George
Edwardes) presents the Play with Music,
AUTUMN MANOEUVRES.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
PRICES : D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Amphitheatre till 7.H0, 2/- ; thereafter, 1/-
Theatre roy a e, sydn e y.
Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltp.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
OSCAR ASCHE and LILY BRAYTON
in
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ; at Doors, 6/- ; Stalls,
4/- ; Gallery to 7.30, •'/- ; thereafter, 1/- Plans at Paling’s.
A DELI’Hi THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.,
in a Great Play from Victoria Cross’s Book,
LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW.
Production under the Personal Supervision of
WILLIAM ANDERSON.
PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, it- and 1/- Earlv Doors fid, extra.
Palace thea x k n. »lua a j .
Direction: WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE GRAFT E R S.
Complete American Co. of 60 artists in a two-act
Musical Burlesque.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
PRICES: 55., 3s. and Is. Early Doors Gallery, Is.
extra.
JOSEPH McGAB E.
TUESDAY NEXT—PROTESTANT HALL.
Reappearance, after an absence of Three Years, of the
MOST POPULAR SCIENCE CELEBRITY
Of the Present Day.
NEW ILLUSTRATED LECTURES.
NEXT TUESDAY EVENING, Ist JULY,
The Splendid Illustrated Lecture-,
“STORY T OF LIFE ON THE EARTH.”
THURSDAY, 3rd. —“THE END OF THE WORLD.”
MtIDAY, 4th. —“EVOLUTION OF MAN.”
SATURDAY’, sth. —“LIFE IN OTHER WORLDS.’
POPULAR PRICES: Front Seats, 2/-; Back, 1/-
Booked Seats, 3/-; Family Ticket, 10/- Seats
and Tickets may be obtained at COLE S BOOK
ARC ADE. CARLYLE SMYTHE^
R E
HE LITTLE THEAT
(With the BIG Attractions),
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10.
HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIuLET PAGET
present
BOBBY BURN IT.
THE PLAY THAT “GRIPS” AND HOLDS.
PRICES : Orchestral Stalls, 6/-; Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery (till
7.3 ). it- ; after that hour. 1/-
NYTIONAL AMPUUiitAiuis, siuAiii.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
RRENNAN-FULLER'S VAUDEVILLE CO.
THE FOUR STAGPOOLES, Acrobatic Comedians.
EUGENE OSSIPOFF, Russian Operatic Baritone.
HANLEY, MARGUERITE & HANLEY, Equilibrists.
WONG TOY SUN GEORGE MURPHY
MYRA GALE AND LITTLE SADIE.
RUBY TOINTON. NATIONAL DUO.
HART AND KENNY. JENNINGS AND GERALD.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
g PENCE R’S LICEII M, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
QUO VADI S?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8100 ft. A FULL EVENING’S ENTERTAINMENT.
yH E (Tl YMP I A , SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“REST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
a LH A M BRA THEATRE, SYDNEY.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
iTO-NIGHT AND EVERY -EVENING AT 8-
MATINEES: WED. AND SAT. AT 2.30.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
An Entire Change of Artists and Programme Weekly.
•PRICES 1 1/6, 1/- and 6d. Saturday, 2/-, 1/6 and 1/-
i Doors 7.15, Overture 8.
CYD N E Y
GLACIARIUM.
BEAL ICE SKATING.
Three <: sessions daily: 10 to 12, 3 to 5,
8 to 10.30.
Admission, 2s. Skate Hire, 6d.
Children: Morning and afternoon only,
Admission Is.
Children: Saturday morning, Admission 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Managei.
Imperial roller rink,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
1 C K aTr 1) S’ TIVOLI THEATIi K.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE FLYING BANVARDS.
TWO LADIES AND FOUR GENTLEMEN.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST AERIAL ACT.
DIRECT FROM ENGLAND AND FIRST APPEAR-
ANCE IN SYDNEY.
Grace and Elegance, with a touch of Comedy and a
bit. of Sensation.
VK K A HOUSE. MELBO U R N E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
O HANA SAN & CO., in the Original Scena, “A Vision
of Japan.”
O. G. SPRY, Cosmopolitan Comedian.
CAPT. TIEBOR’S EDUCATED SEALS & SEA LIONS.
TORCAT & D’ALIZA’S TRAINED ROOSTERS.
DALE & BROOKES, Musical Comedy Artists.
MARGARET OGILVIE, Dainty Comedienne.
BELLCLAIR BROS., American Athletes.
t]lan at Allan’s. 43TPKICES —45., :-is., 25., Is.
A FLY I NG VISIT OF
M PETER DAWSON,
PETER DAWSON,
THE WORLD-FAMED ENGLISH BASSO.
PETER DAWSON,
THE MOST POPULAR GRAMOPHONE SINGER,
ONE NIGHT ONLY.
AUDITORIUM, WEDNESDAY, JULY 9.
PRICES, 4/- (RESERVED), 3/-, 2/-.
Plan at Pianola Co., June 30.
Direction FAULKNER SMITH.
PRINCESS’S TJIEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 2&
George Marlow’s Dramatic Combination in the
Greatest American Play of the Century,
THE COWBOY AND THE SQUAW.
POPULAR PRICES. Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
An Attraction of World-wide Importance.
' ADELINE GENEE,
Supported by M. ALEXANDER VOLININ. MLLE.
SCHMOLZ and the IMPERIAL RUSSIAN BALLET.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 7/6.
Balcony and Stalls, 4/- : Pit and Gallery, 2/-
H E A T R E R O Y A L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. G. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
WIT II IN TII E LA W.
PRICES: Dress and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
•HE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the Bert Bailey Dramatic Co.
in
The New and Attractive Australian Drama,
THE NATIVE BORN.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
ELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE
Direction : GKEUAN McMAHON.
At the ATHENASUM HALL.
tj, lAfv'V’ij pt ay) Saturday, .iune 28
FAN IN Yet LKo I FLAY 1 MONDAY, JUNE 30
By Rf.rnard Shaw. J TUESDAY, JULY 1,
THE INTERIOR (Maeterlinck) ) Tur»«n«
FRITZCHEN (Sudermann) \ ~”“ AT >
HOW HE LIED TO HER HUSBAND(Shaw).I JULYd -
BOX PLANS at BOOKLOVERS' LIBRARY and
PIANOLA CO. on SATURDAY, JUNK 21.
|C E SKATING. ICE SKATING!
THE GLACIA li I U M,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON : ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
p^IRECTION
AMALGAMATED
LTD.
PICTURES
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJESTIC THEATRE
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o’clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices: 2/-, 1/6. 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan’s.
YANTFTa: OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
%JL# E S T’S PALA C E. MELBOURNE.
BFST WEST’S PICTURESt HE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED-. - - OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West,
nightly AT 8 Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Thf Greatest Pictoriai, Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
I K C H & C A R ROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Plaving Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. , . . , ....
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
* e ß gS4!Sa!S l ‘rti.SSSsta to u» General Film
gSToira. "ROTOWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
GIVE ME 15 MINUTES EACH DAY OF YOUR TIME,
says
WALTER BENTLEY,
THE DISTINGUISHED
ACTOR,
MAKE SPEECHES.
PROPOSE TOASTS,
ADDRESS BOARD MEETINGS,
SELL MORE GOODS,
STRENGTHEN MEMORY,
DEVELOP STRONG PERSONALITY,
CONVERSE WINNINGLY,
ACQUIRE POISE AND DISTINCTION,
and
OBTAIN PERFECT HEALTH,
BY CORRECT BREATHING AND PHYSICAL CULTURE.
Thousands of business and professional people have become convitming speakers in P£° ic in a creased
business by following a Mail Course in their spare time home or tf TT rr
their power and influence, sfnd put them on the straight road to BIG
“WORTH MUCH MORE THAN IT COSTS.”
Only one address: Ladies and Gentlemen, call or write at once.
301 a PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
~-4
2£-r«*
J
Mri
-W/M/taz
I %
WfiK"i' u .vi.*v» ..■•■ i!T
STERLING
SILVER BACK
HAIR BRUSH,
When it is a question of choosing
the Wedding Gifts our fine stocks . ~,
will afford the widest choice and fullest satisfaction. All
our offerings are most tasteful, while reliability is assured
by the fact that they are the best makers , productions, let
the prices are distinctly economical.
Mail Orders. —We give these Special Atten-
tion, and Pay Postage.
Ask or Write tor illustrated Catalogue.
SOLID S T LVER-PLATED
EGG STAND,
22 6
HoHindddcttell
WATCHMAKERS © JEWELLERS
s.
QBKI
EY
SYD
Pitt sn
Branch at
iwa
near


Now is the Season for Clipping Horses
sM.
Cr
OUR ILLUSTRATION SHOWS THE
SIMPLICITY OF USING THE
"NUMBER ONE”
HORSE CLIPPER.
A big horse can be clipped in 30 minutes. You
must know that clipping improves a horse’s
health, prolongs his life, and increases his value.
The “Little Machine that Does Big Work” has
steadily grown in popularity throughout the
length and breadth of Australia, we say with
all truth no horse-owner can afford to be without
one.
We undertake Grinding and Setting the Knives
of our “NUMBER ONE” HORSE-CLIPPING
MACHINE by a special process, which enables us
to guarantee satisfaction.
With Ball Bearings, 40/-
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Queensland,
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.
252 George Street, Sydney.
/r
At
om'
r
a
r
“ My name
is Simplicity."
“ I can travel
swiftly over the roughest paper.
I travel many hundreds of miles every year—over
foolscap and notepaper, sketch book and drawing pad.
I can travel in comfort, with never a hitch, or a
jolt, or a wait, for years and years.'"
The Onoto is the Fountain Ten that fills itself
instantly from any ink supply, with no trouble or
mess. A simple device seals the ink reservoir so that
the Onoto cannot leak. You can pack it in your bag
without any fear of it ever spoiling your clothes. It
is the safety pen that is REALLY safe—the self-
filling pen that is ALWAYS satisfactory. Get it.
Onoto
the non-stop pen.
Price 12/-* and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers and
Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on application to
PH OS. DE LA RUE CO., Ltd., 181 Bunhill Row,
London, E.C. ; or the Australasian Representatives, Norman
Bakkr & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink —Best for all Pens*
LOOKING FOR TROUBLE —
Assuming that you are a probable Engine Buyer, you must keep the name
MARSHALL always before you.
Once you pass the
MARSHALL Steam Engine
in favor of something cheaper, your troubles begin. It’s no use looking for
worry ;.!you’ll have plenty, anyway.
“RELIABILITY” is Marshall’s Watchword, and every Engine is backed by
Marshall’s guarantee certificate.
n
m
Light and Heavy Pattern TRAC-
TION ENGINES.
Single Cylinder and Compound,
specially built for Australia.
Portables, 2 to 35 H.P., 120-1501 b.
working pressure.
Horizontal and Vertical Stationary
Engines, all sizes.
Marshall’s Vertical Boilers, 2 to 12
H.P., 1001 b. working pressure.
Colonial Type Boilers.
Special Engine Oils, Packing, Belt-
ing, etc.
r i
Descriptive Catalogues Free.- Cash or Liberal Terms.
WASTING TIME
u
Probably more time is annually wasted with
faiulty Oil Engines than with any other
power.
“Time is money”—so why waste time in
using an unreliable Engine.
Let us send you a catalogue explaining fully
the merits of
The “Big Chief”
Everywhere Acknowledged
“America’s Champion.”
This Enge is hopper-cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto Extended Crank
Shaft, Dotle Ely Wheels and Muffler.
USES KEROSENE OR BENZINE AS FUEL.
Wte to us for advice before placing your order elsewhere.
Calogues Free. Very Easy Terms. Discount for Cash.
R. L.SCRUTTON & CO. Limited
161 Clarence Street, Sydney.
m>A
V.
r i
Repeating Hunting Rifles
For All Kinds Of Game
To get quickly moving game, and to get it
more abundantly, you need a good repeating
rifle. The rapid repeat shots which such a
rifle delivers will overtake any animal. Such
a rifle as the Model 1892 Winchester Re-
peater is perfectly adapted to the various
kinds of Australian game. It is made in
.25-20, .32, .38 and .44 calibers, suitable for
any animal found on this continent. Win-
chester rifles are reliable and accurate
shooters all, and give no cause for regret.
THEY ARE SOLD BY
DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
RED
W brand
i
%\i
AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
r that is all
tha‘ is needed
to start or stop the patent
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING j/k/PUMPING
SI Ni PI.E - EFFICIENT INSTALLATIONS
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTIOf.
FOUR
HIGH ESI
AWARDS
Sole Maker* .
Durs^e - . G^c
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and other
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS.
AGENTS—
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD,, 279 Clarence Street, and
426-430 Kent Street (4 doors from Town Hall), Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.


SKIN TROUBLE ON
NECK AND DEAD
Also on Lower Limbs. Broke Out
as Pimple. In Less Thar Fort-
night Sores All Over. Cuticura
Soap and CuticuraOintment Cured.
Grantham St., West Kogarah, Sydney,
N. S. W.—“l had suffered for ten months
with a skin disease which broke out around
my neck and head and also
on the upper part of my lower
limbs and on the back of my
hips. The complaint first
broke out as a pimple and in
less than a fortnight there
were sores all over me. I
tried several different reme-
dies but made no sign of get-
ting better. Some of my
friends told me of the Cuticura Remedies
and I got both the Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment. Before having used them
one week the itchiness had disappeared and
I was enabled to have a peaceful sleep.
“ Before that I could not sleep of a night
because every time I moved I would stretch
the skin round the sores and then I would
lie on my side for three weeks because the
pain used to be too great I would at-
tempt to lie on my back. It was almost the
same with my neck and head until I used
the Cuticura Soap and Ointment. I can
truthfully say that they have cured my skin
disease.” (Signed) F. E. Breakspear, No-
vember 5, 1911.
The regular use of Cuticura Soap for toilet
and bath not only tends to preserve, purify
and beautify the skin, scalp, hair and hands,
but assists in preventing inflammation, irri-
tation and clogging of the pores. Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment are sold
throughout the world. Liberal sample
of each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book.
Address R. Towns & Cc., Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Tlnri’f 4-ol to f noit* no»»en nnf 1 a
Don’t take purgatives —their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S UTILE LIVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only
quickly re-
lieves but
for ever
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Pill. Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
5
Her Youtfc
■&S
rB.AfcLENJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of All!
If you’ve goc a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
rot—or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 1/6, Posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GRIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Concha,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bi/ all Chemist*.
T H
E Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
TO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results.
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR SPECIALISTS.
The above c'earlv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Halr-Growlng Compound
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles can be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, buf am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
1 reached the age of thirty. When 1 had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the Knglish so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. 1 also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many,
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair as well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
compound prepared. I did this a few days later. 1
was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks mv head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to sav it is the only hair grower in the world—-1 am
not interested in decrying others—but f do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon ami semi with 3 stamp*
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
post a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 'lO7 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 A 4/b.
Checks Fever-
ishness. and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks st
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUQHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Made in England.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
CHoose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The "Swam Safety”
Can't
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch \
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Statkners
and Jewellers
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) : J. A. BURKfc, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
v*'-
V I
WJI4
F ie* NZ
Benger s is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
•II •
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and during
convalescence.
Post free— to all who hare the care of Infant* and Invalids, a4®"P*S*
Booklet, “ Berber's Food and How to Use It."
BENQER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Works, MANCHESTER, ENG.
117, PITT STREET, BYDNET, N.S.W.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere
Food
The Inky Way.
Apropos signed articles. C. E. Montague, of the
Manchester guardian, has written “a journalistic
farce,” and has had it played in London. The chief
character is a versatile Irishman who writes leading
articles for both the Liberal and Conservative journals
until discovery and complications arrive. He is
sacked then by both of his bosses, but is engaged by
a new Independent morning paper. The other two 1
feel his loss and re-engage him, so the accommodating
Inky Wayster finishes up as leader-writer - for all
three. It is a cheerful skit. Besant worked the same
idea many years ago. His raffish free lance wrote
articles for the Tall Church paper and the Atheist
Drink organ, and \-as so much trusted by both that
the editors published the goods without reading them.
One miserable day he got the goods mixed, and next
evening the two editors ran him down at the Penny-
a-Liners’ Club and sacked him in the presence of all
and sundry. An even more disreputable pressman,
who was on the spot, had sense enough to chase
first one editor and then the other into the street,
and by striking while the iron was hot he secured
both jobs, and rose to the giddy affluence of about
455. a week. As for the d.scharged free lance, he
crawled away in misery and married the widow of a
pork butcher.
“C.R.L.11.”: In an “Inky” par. (B. 12/6/’l3)
about the hard lines of district linesmen, I made a
slight slip. I said that the A.J.A. “casual’ rate
for four hours was ss. As a fact, the rate; is 10s.,
when the engagement is a separate one of merely four
hours and no more. I should have explained that
the four hours for which I get 55., follow, with a
two-hour break, on top of a four-hour job, for Which
I get 10s. This makes up the A.. 1,4. rate of 154
for eight hours. The rest of my allegations regard-
ing the hardships of district men on daily papers
hold good, as also does my contention that such
men should be graded and put on the staff. 1
hasten the more swiftly to correct my error because
it was pointed out to me by the only Sydney daily-
paper sub. with a heart. The other subs, merely
have livers.
“Publius Syrus”: The remarks of “Quarter Single”
(B. 17/4/’l3) on “young reporters and a few of the
snuffy old ones,” display a lamentable ignorance of
modern newspaper men, and are merely dogmatic
assertions wh ch have neither legitimate foundation
nor a correct sense of proportion. For instance,
with all due respect to the quoted W. C. Bryant, the
Yankee poet and editor (and Yanks use English only
on sufferance and abuse it as a habit), “initiated”
cannot always be replaced by “began.” There is a
fine distinction between “initiating” a movement
and “beginning” it. Also, “a man named John
Smith” is perfectly reasonable. “Q.S.” suggests that
if he were a girl, there might be reason for the pro-
logue. Might the name not imply a lad or even a
male infant. John Smiths are not born grown up
any more than are Henry Browns. In conclusion,
let me suggest to “Q.S.” that there is such a thing
as rhythm, even in prose, and “atmosphere” in a
printed paragraph. The construction of a complete
article may be pedantically sound, but the perfec-
tion of its making should be judged by the mental
tune played on the reader’s harp of perception. In
such cases, “transpired” and those blessed words,
“gruesome spectacle,” may harmonise perfectly in
a chord, wherein “occurred” “took place,” or “ugly
sight” may jar and arrest the continuity. There
ivas once a sub-editor who believed in plain, wooden
speech, and he complained when the short-story-
writer made the heroine approach the hero “timidly,
with parted lips.” He changed it to, “She rushed
at him with her mouth open.” Then the short-story-
writer suddenly said nothing, and for a while he
remained motionless at full speed in the place he
had occupied previously. After that, he dashed
the sub-editor’s brains out with the fifth volume of
Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire,”
and the sub. was buried on a wet Friday, which was
also the 13th of the month, in the north-east corner
of the local cemetery. He is still dead, and shows
no signs of becoming otherwise.
* * » *
“Vagabond” (from London): This week Will
Dyson’s cartoon occupies exactly an eighth of the
Daily Herald, the heavily-laboring London Labor
paper. The heroic Herald is still battling des-
perately to keep afloat, but has had to reduce to
eight small pages. In the last issue there is a call
to “Comrades, Sympathisers and Daily Herald
leaguers” to do more for the paper, as “we still lose
a considerable sum each week, and have reduced our
expenses.” Meantime, there are rumors running
round Fleet-street that the Suffragette Union is sub-
sidising the Herald to carry on the Cause. It may
not. be true, but the fact "that this issue, for in-
stance, contains about nine columns of suffragitera-
ture out of a total of about 22 cols, of reading is
significant.
* * * *
Maoriland pressmen are restless just now, and
have been > swapping jobs with great enthusiasm or
much despair. Several have crossed the Tasman,
notably Emil Schwabe and John Grealish, both
young old identities in M.L.’s Parliamentary Gal-
lery. These two were roped in by Sydney Tele-
graph, which for many years has practically made
Maoriland its recruiting ground. Attached to one
paper or another there are so many scribblers from
louland in Sydney nowadays that there are only
two barmaidens in town who don’t know what to
reach for when the stranger calls for “he paina.”
Another change in the Times. It was established
in 1785. On July 1, 1796, the price was 4£d.; in
1799, 6d.; in 1809, ; in 1815, 7d. ; in 1836,
sd. ; and in 1855, 4d. Then in 1861 it became
3d., and stood at that for 50 years. In February,
1911, the price to regular subscribers dropped to
2d., and since May 5, 1913, the general public has
bought its Thunder (a good deal muffled now-
adays) on the same terms. But it must come to a
penny, as the Argus knows. That paper said in its
pride, “Tuppence, even if my cheap rival is a
penny,” and almost before it knew where it was its
cheap rival had taken the Argus's place of power
and influence. And the uprising of the penny Adver-
tiser in Adelaide and the decadence of the tuppenny
Register was even more emphatic.
“Sundown Jack”: “Police Intelligence” is a
favorite heading with the dailies, but the items appear-
ing under it seldom substantiate the statement. It’s
been that way from the earliest records. For instance,
33 years ago Bollon (Q.) was a canvas town. The
police station was of canvas, like the rest, and as a
lock-up of this material wouldn’t form much check
to a man with strong ideas about liberty, the lum-
bered ones were attached by a strong chain to a stout
ring round a tall pole, sunk firmly in the ground.
The ironwork was strong and the pole deep-sunk, so,
the captive once secured, authority worr : ed not. But
when occasion arose to lumber King Billy, a flaw
was discovered in the system, for no sooner was
Authority’s back turned than William scaled the
pole, lifted the ring over the top, and strolled
off into the bush with the major portion of her
Majesty’s gaol attached to him. I didn’t see the
local rag at the time, but I’ll swear the incident was
luly recorded under “Police Intelligence.”
TIME’S JEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, you were fair when I was very young.
While I was humble, you were very proud.
I was too dazed to find a lover’s tongue,
Too lost in love to speak your name aloud.
Ah, 3’ou were fair and proud !
How I -.would kiss your footprints, and hold dear
A pin, a hair .that fell from your fair head,
The head you held so high when I was near,
And turned from me, the day that you were
wed.
Ah me, the proud, fair head!
Now we are neither young, nor proud, nor fair;
Now neither yearns, nor flouts, nor turns away;
Now there is nothing that we both may share
But faded fancies of a far-off day.
Ah, well—ah, well, a-day!
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
WAIF.


ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
bear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no’matter how old you are. No mvsterv or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. Thev
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them—the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
car, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers ’•estore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve co m-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
io cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
ou from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You 'mav wen
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them on
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (w
have special sizes for children from six to twelve)
Even a child can insert and remove them without th
least danger.
The Price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s singl
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are onl
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also ai
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but th
pair you get at first will last quite two years. D
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them ou
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use th
Order form below, and the Outfit will lie sent voi
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as yoi
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO..
103 Arlington Chambers.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, vou must register it.
e>o
, 9
fV
l?
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
BRAND
(Mom
BRIGHT
TO THE
LAST DROP.
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received irom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy (or Asthma,
„ Hay F ever, Kose Cold, or
©rd nary Cough.
Scid tn Tim by ail Cktmisu ana Starts
Australasia,
x r
tsA
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
tooth soap
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
on a penny postcard, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out.
Thtriar* imititiens. Sold by Chemists everywhere,
CHAS. WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., L.S.A.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Estarush.m) istt- For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leaiehol 1
City or Suburban Prooerties. or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Moruraire Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the orivilece of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of tne loan durine- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors- —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M L.C. ; The Hon. F. K. Winchcoinbe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
Eiq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M. D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HF.AD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
£•*5.4
MM
MM
•'Vw.lk*"
Waterman's
4 Ideal)
FoimtaSMten
“Safety ” Type — No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter
a bit. The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed. As a pen
—absolutely efficient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA —350, George St.,
Sydney.
ii
ill
i
§
1111
urn
m
(phtN,
t. ,| iii i >
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
*
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
.
mm
{fit
M &
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
Head Office:
156 Collins St., Hobart
AGENTS:
Melbourne:
Taylor, Ferguson &
Co., 187 King: St.
Sydney:
D’Arcy A Co.
Brisbane:
Burns, Philp A Co.,
Ltd.
Maryborough:
Corser A Co. t ■
Rockhampton:
Walter Reid A Co.
Townsville:
Burns, Philp A Co.,
Ltd.
Cairns:
Burns, Philp A Co.,
Ltd. f
8
JAY
F/A
S^^RINKA®^
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLO BY ALI HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. A R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETKc « vO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bean the above Trade Mark./
f*.'Ringing for More!
fi!k i a
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
Over 70 years' success. A
FELT HATS
WRITE
NOW.
7/6
POST
FREE.
0
‘‘THE TRAQUAIR”
Smartest Shape of the Season—an
ideal hat for autumn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black ::
white, navy & colors. Sent post free any*
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLERS
270 Bourke St., Melbourne.
118 Rundle St. Adelaide 195 Pitt St. Sydney
Registered
r— V
i
4
V*S
f&s&ai
%<*&£■&
NOTE THE SLOT
The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
Jewsbury& Brown's
|tj Oriental
Tooth Powder
in the
United Kingdom
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY
Messrs. Elliott Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H Faulding & Co.
WjS"j
k?
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for It.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.


THE CERT D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pisioj
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b JBI/15/-
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2151
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State. ’
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-gtinge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Gill). Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. 24/-; Non-Ejector, 21/-
Postasre— 2/6N.S. \V.
4/8 Inter-State.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
,tc. Post Free
Anywhere.
“ The ContinentalS.B.B.L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steelbarrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38£in.. weight about 41b. A splendid /
gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State. wO/"
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Branches: City, Suburbs and Newcastle.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bur interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grin
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 6Jlb. to 71b., ’ 8
of 16-gauge 6|lb. to 6£lb. DELIVERED,
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at /4/- extra.
We are the Sole Agents in M.S. \V. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifics
lions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
67/6
©
9.
The “ Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke,
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7^lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s.
The First
Successful
Self-Filling
Fountain
Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
“THE A.A.” AUTOMATIC SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN
is the pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling method
is exclusive. It is filled by simply twisting the button, holding the
pen point in the ink, and, by a reverse twist, the pen is filled. As
the ink is held in a durable reservoir, the pen cannot leak. No
soiling of fingers or any annoying “filler” necessary to keep
“The A.A.” ready for service.
Fitted with 14kt. gold pens, any style or size, with plain,
chased or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver
filigree, gold filled and mother of pearl. They are for sale
at all shops.
The cut herein shows the newly-patented “A.A.” Clip attached
to the cap of the pen. It excels by far any fountain pen clip yet
produced. It holds perfectly firm, and can be attached almost
instantly.
If you cannot secure “The A.A.” Automatic Self-Filling
Fountain Pen with the “A.A.” Clip at your store, write for prices
to
RYAN, LEWIS (EL CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN & CO., New York, 11.5. A.
NOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO.
[2
TYPEWRITERS.
IS
r4ff
I l-
ib
JyWvi
I
.
V
Seal
Everybody should own a typewriter*
The following machines have been
exchanged for Underwoods, conse-
quently will be sold at lowest prices.
All are thoroughly overhauled, and
are guaranteed.
Underwood No. 5 £l9
Stearns (Visible) £l5
Remington No. 10 £l4
L. C. Smith £l5
Remington No. 7 £lO
Remington No. 8 £7
Five No. 7 Remingtons at
£9 each
One Smith Premier ... £7
One No. 10 Yost £6
WE HIRE TYPEWRITERS AT £1 PER MONTH.
STOTT & UNDERWOOD,
Stott’s Chambers, 70 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SCHUTE, BELL, 4. Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AiVD ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, (id. Howto Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Priknd, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Sehd for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, l/r,.
Joys of Like, 3s 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 3s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., 3s. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ GuiDE(simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick, at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (B'latch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu*, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d!
1
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR 11 PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Passes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young; and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and put of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
m- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~mE
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy Rivep-. 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth'-rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash, gef Established 2b Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK Cp
BE QOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated (Jatalojue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
on
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDIO.
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNT
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWUEy SENT.
oun*y.
r . DUTY.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to i' e Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. SApfo.genipne,
Is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. .MG'ords Jiiu-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical ilkustrJons, 3s wi.
Aristotle, 3s tid. Clog Dancing M#k JtASt, ■
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions r . TIIK
Is 3d. Guide to auctioneering, 2s Jw.
History Court of England, Is 3d j* st * ,
Letter Writer, Is. All About Inci'/ators, is -u-
-. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, /key tojm
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. / \ KST . / OC *T
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology '» M P
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 3s. How ® Bead H
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cuevas#s Advice ro a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderfi# Budget bo.o
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is/3d ,P° 8 ® “
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s P°f •
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit blsbs
BOILERS’ ASSISTANT, Is 3d- TllE fl« 8
Is 2d posted. Fruits of PtiiLosopiiflls post. i
Recitations and Readings, Is 3u.*NervouBNKS •
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Wbb#®RS Larg *
ABRIDGED DICTIONARY, 1700 pages, 1000 lllUS.,^
oound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, 13 - d - " L
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moo*® s Lniv
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 101 1
bound, 10s 6d posted. The SkcrklS of Cla.rvoy ance.
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and mils
plete), Is (Id posted. The Age or l* l *^*/:■ > ~, ,y’
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY-


HEUMATISM
BACK, LEGS AND HANDS BADLY AFFECTED—DREADFUL SWELLING
AND INFLAMMATION CAUSED GREAT PAIN—UNABLE 10 GET ABOUT.
Shi
&
Mrs. Stapleton , who recommends
Bile Beans to all siifferers.
‘‘ V WAS a great sufferer from rheumatics,”
says Mrs. A. Stapleton, of 136 Forbes
Street, Sydney. “It caught me most
severely in the back, legs and hands,
and the pain was so dreadful that it was
impossible for me to get about. Snarp
twinges would shoot through the affected
parts with torturing effect. My back
and limbs swelled up enormously,
and I used to dread anyone to come
near me for fear they would touch me.
Even the slightest precsure, as from
the bed-clothes, would cause me great
agony.
“ I suffered thus for a long time with-
out getting ease from anything. Bile
Beans being recommended to me as a
proved cure for rheumatics, 1 started a
course, and presently 1 was conscious
of great relief. The twinges grew less
in their violence and frequency, the
inflammation and pain left the parts, and
the swelling went down. Altogether I
felt very much better, so 1 continued with
i■ ■ Bile Beans until 1 was quite recovered.
“ Bile Beans are a grand medicine, and 1 have also found them a
splendid remedy for biliousness. 1 suffered terribly from this complaint
and severe headaches, which used to prostrate me for days together and
render me unfit for anything. A course of Bile Beans completely cured me of these distressing
troubles, and now a dose of Bile Beans Keeps me free from them. From my experience I can
confidently recommend Bile Beans as a splendid remedy for rheumatics and biliousness.”
W The Standard Family Medicine.
Bile Beans have a world-wide reputation as a proved remedy in cases of
Biliousness, Head-
ache, Indigestion,
Stomach Troubles,
Constipation, Piles,
Female Ailments,
Bad Blood, Bad
Breath, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, Sciat-
ioa, and by giving
tone to the system
ward off Colds,
Coughs and Influ-
enza. Obtainable at
1/1J and 2/9 large
box (containing three
times the 1/14 size),
of all chemists and
stores, or The Bile
Bean Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
V.
n
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The questions of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done the
best tHat possibly can be done tor
the skin’s HealtH and beauty. THere
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Git-yer-gun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
<'y " ?I?7/S if happened... .Let me men-
t tion, lest I raise an unsought
M. quarrel,
This occurred in times long van-
ished, in the land of Oit-yer-gun.
’Tis a quaint, unlikely story; some folk say
it has a moral;
But that’s a little matter you may settle
when I’ve done.
Mr. Foodie led a party that was strongly
democratic,
And it represented people with the Chris-
tian name of Bill.
And in all his hustings speeches Mr. Foodie
was emphatic
That his crowd existed solely to uphold the
people’s will.
Mr. Boodle led a party that was Liberal —
or Tory-—■
(Just according to your view-point)-—and
it represented those
Christened (by immersion) Percy, whose hot
socks proclaimed their glory ;
And its policy was such as you may
readily suppose.
So they strove in an election.... (Now, I
wish it noted plainly
That this happened years ago, and in the
land of Git-yer-gun) ....
And each side employed its talent to upbraid
the other mainly,
While the voters cheered them madly, and
the crowd enjoyed the fun.
The Democratic Party (Bill by name) sup-
ported Foodie —-
For such was the convention with this
quaint old Party Plan —
While the Tories fought like fury to promote
the cause of Boodle,
And, of course, the crowd named Percy
voted for him to- a man.
And the others of the nation —all the Johns
and Jeremiahs,
All the Peters, Pauls and Paddys, all the
Colins and Carews,
All the Richards and the Roberts, and the
Hanks and Hezekiahs
Voted for some bloque or other, each ac-
cording to his views.
Then they counted up the numbers, when at
last the fight was over,
And both Democrats and Tories —Bills
and Percys—looked quite sour
When the numbers showed them clearly
neither Party stood in clover ;
%For a few odd Independents held the bal-
ance of the power.
Mr. Foodie called his Caucus.... And he
put it to them plainly :
“Never mind the Bills,” said Boodle; “we
have got them in the box.
If we would escape extinction ’tis our plan
to pander mainly—
But with caution —to the Percys and the
cause of fancy socks.
“For,” said Mr. Foodie gravely, “understand
me, votes are needed!
How to catch and how to keep them is the
question of the hour.
Never mind your Public Questions ; let the
Big Things go unheeded ;
We must compromise a little if we mean
to hold the power.”
Mr. Boodle called his Caucus. . . .And he put
it to them clearly:
“Gentlemen, ignore the Percys! We have
got them in the bag!
But the Bills, we must remember, have the
votes we covet dearly ;
And till we contrive to get them we must
let the Big Things lag.”
So began the op’ning session, with both sides
electioneering ;
Boodle grew more democratic; Foodie
watered down his views ;
Bit by bit they drew together, more and more
alike appearing.
Till the voters, looking at them, vowed
there wasn’t much to choose.
Sometimes Foodie reigned in office, some-
times it was Mr. Boodle.
’Twas the Grand Old Party System, for
the shibboleth held still.
And they vowed that ev’ry voter —(as was
plain to any noodle)
Must most palpably be Percy if he wasn’t
christened Bill.
Meantime all the Dicks and Davids, all the
Johns and Jeremiahs,
All the Mats and Pats and Peters, sur-
named Smith or Brown or Burke,
Shouted with the Neds and Normans and the
Hanks and Hezekiahs,
“What of those Big Public Questions? When
do you begin to Work?”
Still the factions went on fighting—-(’Tis
a right that factions cherish)
But on one important matter both the
parties were agreed ;
In this world of sin and sorrow Bills may die
and Percys perish.
But the votes to hold his billet are a poli-
tician’s need.
Boodle batded strenuously, on his rival’s
ground encroaching;
Fearlessly the Foodie faction sneaked the
other Party’s views ;
Full of fight were both opponents ; the elec-
tions were approaching;
And upon mere Public Business none b°d
any time to lose.
With the public patience straining, and quite
half the nation scoffing
At the Bill and Percy parties, and the
voters in despair.
Lo, a party hd by Doodle rose serenely in
the effing ;
And it said it represented folk who sported
Ginger Ilair.
Doodle soon became the fashion; thousands
flocked around his banner;
Scores of Anto.nys and Arthurs, Joes and
Jacobs, Mats and Micks
(Even some stray Bills and Percys rene-
gaded). In like manner
Flocked the Hanks and Hezekiahs, and
the Davids and the Dicks.
All th<\ Red haired of the nation joined the
Aiighty Doodle party ;
And™ the Brown-haired and the Black-
haired and the Grey-haired sought
him, too;
For, they said: “What does it matter? He
has our support most hearty.
Never mind what shade your hair is. He
will see the Big Things through !’’
Then, when that great Doodle Party swept
the polls at next election,
What a great rejoicing followed! Heavens,
how the people cheered!
And the Boodle-Foodie Party—(fused for
general protection)
Was so absolutely routed that it almost
disappeared.
How the Dicks and Davids shouted with the
Johns and Jeremiahs:
“We don’t care what shade his hair is—
black or brown or pink or blue !”
“Glory!” cried the Mats and Michaels with
the Hals and Ilezekiahs.
“Hail to Doodle! Red-haired Doodle!
He will see the Big Things through /”
Mr. Doodle called his Caucus.... And he
put it to them tersely:
“Gentlemen, it now behoves us, seeing all
the votes we’ve got,
To be very, very careful lest we’re criticised
adversely.
Never mind the Red-haired voters; we
have got them in the pot.
“But,” continued Mr. Doodle, “there are
others—perfect snorters.
There’s this new Bald-headed Party led
by Snoodle! Statesmanship
Now demands we do our utmost to win over
his supporters.
Meantime, gentlemen, I’m thinking we
must let the Big Things rip.
“Or, if we must tackle something to allay
the public clamor,
Let us not be over-zealous and thus
alienate support
From our Party when the.. Gracious! !! !”
I should like to go on telling how they fared :
but foreign raiders
At this very hour descended on the land
of Git-yer-gun;
And the Red-heads and the Bald-heads fell
beneath the fierce invaders —
Men who bore aloft a banner blazoned
with a Rising Sun.
And they smote the Pats and Percys, and
the Jims and Jeremiahs,
Bashed the Doodles, smashed the Snoodles,
left the Mats and Micks for dead.
Thrust cold steel into the vitals of the
Hanks and Hezekiahs,
And plugged all the Johns and Jacobs
and, the Josephs full of lead.
Thus it happened.... As I've mentioned,
some folk think it has a moral.
You may judge that little matter, as I
said when I began.
'Tis to me the simple story of a very ancient
quarrel
’Mid the Git-yer-gun debaters with their
quaint old, Party Plan.
VICTORIA.
DEN
Gold for Tin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE very deliberate train let me out at
I Ardlethan (N.S.W.) at about the
time when the flies come out of the
scrub and invade the dining-room, be-
cause they see the cook dishing up. It
looked more like Bret Harte’s country than
Australia, because it is a land of pine trees,
balsamic to the nose and colored and shaped
like those very green pine trees you find in
toy Noah’s Arks. The air is divinely blue,
for this is that climate of Australia which
is seven-eighths of Australia and is the
same for most of the year —at Mount Oxide
in the Gulf country, as at Charters Towers
and Birdsville, and Alice Springs, and
Broken Hill, and Kalgoorlie, and Sheppar-
ton; at Mildura, and Kimberley, and
Tanami —at Hay, and Echuca, and Temora,
and Menindie. And that climate is blue
sky, morning haze, air like Cawarra hock,
hot days, and cool nights, and majestic dis-
tances. The other two climates of Aus-
tralia don’t mean much in the total sum;
one-sixteenth of all has the climate of moun-
tains, and the other sixteenth the fecund,
sweaty air of the coastal belt, nor’-west,
nor’-east and north.
In the haze seen through the aisles of
pines trembles a light blue incense that is
the smoke of a burning pine, and the auto-
mobile throws the miles of hard, saddle-
colored earth away. The chocolate of new
wheat fields in the green frame of new
grass, an irregular hill like a camel’s hump,
a shaft or two, and the earth scarred by
costeens, representing a search for tin actu-
ated by the hope that springs eternal in the
Human Beast —also dictated by the belief
that in I’itt-street the public is on the feed.
By-and-bye the public will be eaten. There
is no better eating in June, but in any tight
money market they are sweeter than white-
bait.
There is tin here, but most of the mining is
done far away in Sydney, where promoters
sink in the pockets of the public for gold.
One show r is sinking a shaft at the rate of
2ft. a week, or 4in. a day. The next show
raised 10 bags of pure gold from the public,
and the promoters and vendors pouched the
lot, leaving the mine with less than noth-
ing for working capital. Mad syndicates
with no management nor working capital
issuing as many shares as they can sell,
much on the classic lines of a barmaid’s
raffle! A cheerful lunatic regarding 6in. of
granite in a hole lOin. deep and referring to
it solemnly as “the lode” ! There is no tin
in this and half a hundred other “mines”;
but the stone is easily treated, and a re-
covery of 99 per cent, should be easy.
Over the scenery move the little figures of
red-faced enthusiasts, hitting valueless rocks
with little hammers and murmuring, “’un-
dreds er millyuns er thousan’s,” chewing
wishes and spitting lies. All the wild hope
which is the income of fools is not here
alone, but in the pinewood township by the
railway, also in Temora and Sydney—hope-
lessly hopeful people with the brain of the
monkey who hides away the nuts of Autumn
against the rainy day, and immediately for-
(Continued on next page.)


WHEN HEALTH
BEGINS TO GO
(
%
CJ
/.
to
From birth to death the blood is continually streaming
through the kidneys to be filtered. But when the kidneys are
weak or diseased, they begin to lose their power of filtering
the blood. Then the watery waste left in the blood begins to
spread disease to all parts of the body.
The patient feels unnaturally drowsy and heavy, and
grows irritable and miserable. The uric acid and urea begin
to settle in the muscles and joints, causing the stiffness and
pain of rheumatism. The swellings of dropsy appear; the
heart is affected, and the hands and feet are always cold.
Kidney disease is hard to cure because it'so often reaches
a serious stage before it is found out. But if you take
trouble in time, before the kidneys get too seriously invok
the disease may be permanently cured. At the first as<
ance of any of the above symptoms, the patient should com-
mence with a thorough course of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, which adt upon the kidneys and bladder like laxative
medicines adt upon the bowels. The pills should be persevered
with until every sign of kidney weakness has disappeared,
as long as the least trace remains a relapse is always to be fear
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE.
Cured 5 Years Ago. Still Well.
Mrs. W. Benn, 16 Hanover Street. Waterloo, Sydney, says: I
quite convinced that 1 owe my life to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, for tjp
remedy cured me of Dropsy and other symptoms of disordered kidneys. II
ill-health started with backache, then I got urinary trouble and dropsy,
back was always aching: the sharp, shooting pains were so bad. I would
hot flannels put on to try and get ease. The secretions were thick, and c.uf«g
me intense pain. I was fit for nothing, feeling tired out always, and I
bad headaches. My legs and feet swelled to twice their natural size: I
not put my boots on, and I practically lost the use of my legs. 1 was rfi**
very ill. and nobody thought I would ever get well. I tried every leul _
could hear of. but got no better. The doctors, whom I consulted, could <r 11
no good, and gave up my case as hopeless. A friend advised me to use y ,an
Backache Kidney Pills, and I procured these pills. The first few bottle! g» _
me relief, and 12 bottles completed my cure. I am now quite free of the
and backache, and the secretions are regulated. Doan’s Backache Kidnel _
have cured me completely and permanently, for I have been quite well m
and a half years now. 1 cannot sufficiently praise Doan’s Backache r lu ?l
Pills, they saved my life.”
Mrs. Benn makes a second statement, three years later: ‘‘l am I'l;'-'^'
to add that I have had no return of dropsy or any other symptom oy
trouble since Doan's Backache Kidney Pills cured me over five years a
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and T ol f TPrJhuM
at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles li>/3) ; or posted on receipt of price J-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney
j Backache Kidney Pills
v
“ Every
Picture
Tells a
Story,"
gets the place he hid them in. Out of this
wild hope must come disappointment. But
let us be kindly and be charitable even to
the bulls —let us bear and forbear.
Two men bagging patchy ore on a little
knoll by a bit of outcrop, calling tourmaline
“tin oxide”! Elsewhere a man regarding
stolidly tin oxide specimens on a bush timber
table whereof the legs are protected with
gaiters of rabbit skin, fur outwards, to fool
predatory ants that lose themselves in the
rabbit scrub, and are left to scratch the lust
message of the dying on a pannikin, or the
Antland equivalent!
And everywhere men talking “opsherns
fer ’undreds er thousan’s,” and little tin,
and much brass, and a great cry of gold for
it!
There is a show with two holes in it and
no payable tin withal, and a report thereof
boasting a 17-inch rainfall, as if it were an
irrigation company and not an alleged mine.
They will crush ore with a great mill one
of these days—when they get the ore. But
they are humorously unconscionable —these
companies. One with a 3ft. hole down
in country rock naively remarks that “it is
not intended to erect a reduction plant at
the present juncture.” Which reminds me.
Twenty-five vears ago, in old Broken Hill.
I knew a man named Tom Qitilty. He had
worked —occasionally—until the boom bug
bit him. His “mining” had been all open
cut work—narrow open cuts in streets for
gas pipes and drainage, and lately he had
been a grave-digger, because Broken Hill
had not begun drainage, and its streets
were dust heaps, and its one illuminant
kerosene. Quilty saw men who had
galloped rakes of ballast with him
on railway construction —mere navvies
like himself —suddenly become men appar-
ently rich, and certainly of wonder-
ful raiment and unlimited ability to
“shout.” He saw them metamorphosed by
luck and the habit of being in the right
place, by an L trench with a couple of negs,
and he thought until his little brain almost
burst his little skull. Then one day. while
digging a grave, he cut a mullncky leader
with carbonate of lead in it, and that decided
him.
He left the sexton’s work and took four
pegs down to the Picton paddock—a nice salt-
bush flat a few miles out of Broken Hill.
Mulga and saltbush were growing light
green from the red ironised earth —slugged
with quartz and iron. A man was digging
a costeen across a rise northward, and Tom
Quilty stopped and put in his pegs line for
line with the costeen. That done, he went
back to Jack Elliott’s Denver City Hotel, in
Argent-street, where 000 men raved of
“great” silver mines which never had any
silver in them and are now forgotten as the
names of the dead who died at Gilboa. Old
Jackson was there ready to buy or sell —
especially to sell, and often forced in his
despair to make a market. His bellow made
the street dust dance.
“I sell Moorkaies ! I sell Nine Miles! I
sell 0.K., Nine Miles, Picton Belles. Mount
Robes, Mount Argents, Piesse’s Nobs, New
Chums’ Dreams, Great Cockburns !. . . .1 sell
Potosis, Chimborazos. War Dances, Day
Dreams !.... I sell Windalpas, Fmberumber-
kas, Samsons. Delilahs !. . . . I sell Globes,
Imperials, Great White Leads, Rising Suns,
Lady Bevyses. Pine Paddocks! I sell
Siam Rubys, Poolamacca Rubys !. . . . Byjer-
kerno Tins, Euriowie Tin, Caloola Kings,
Packsaddles, Goat Hi 115!.... I buy Goat
Hills, Packsaddles!” and so back through
the bunch, unless another kerbstone broker
stopped him.
Most of the attention was for new stuff —
syndicates in the passion of birth —syndi-
cates without prospectuses and formed on
the basis of the barmaid’s raffle aforesaid —
100 members, anyhow, though it may be 500
if they can be got. Quilty heard a man say.
“If it’s a good thing. I’ll take two shares.”
and another man reply. “It’ll be as big as
Broken Hill. That’s 50 pounds,” and he
saw the first man give the money—real
money—in notes ! That was the way of it
then! You said something was bigger than
Broken Hill, and the listener gave real
money to the whisperer.
He followed the money-giver, touched his
arm, saying. “Whist! Come where they can’t
hear me tellin’,” drew the man out of the
crowd. “ ’Tis the great mine I hov,” he
said.
“Where?”
“In th’ Picton paddick. Shilver ! me man !
Shilver be th’ dhrayload !”
“What’s the name of it?”
“Th’ name’s th’ Brian Boru, me man.”
“Are you putting it into a syndicate?”
“That’s it! Th’ shindykit!”
“How many shares?”
“ ’Tis that I’m thinkin’ of.”
“Five hundred shares?”
“A t’ousan’, me mahn —a t’ousan’!”
“I see—ten-pound shares?”
“Y T is—tin pound ! A t’ousan’ shares of tin
pound !”
“I’ll take five when you’ve got them all
off.”
“And your name, me mahn?”
“Blake —Jim Blake. Write it down.”
“Write it down you; me man. I’ve not
pin an’ ink.”
Blake wrote his name with a pencil, and
Quilty left him in a hurry. “ ’Tis th’ sthart
I hov.” he said, and then began to raid
everybody he knew.
Berger, the high-voiced German from whom
Quilty had bought tobacco many a time,
wrote his name under Blake’s, and yielded
money—real money—£2o.
“ ’Tis the ghreat industhree, minin’,” said
Quilty, addressing himself joyfully. “ ’Tis
th’ ghreat industhree, minin’, an’ ’tis th’
ghreat man ye are. Tom Quilty !”
Should a man work if he has earned
£2O? Not a Christian man. Quilty
worked no more; he collected contributions
by selling shares in the Brian Boru —selling
them as the spirit moved him and the opoor-
tunity came, bluffing his clients into writing
their own receipts, growing fat by chance,
as in the Age of Gold.
He avoided Blake—the man who would
not pay for shares until the precious syndi-
cate had been fully subscribed—Blake who
had been unconsciously the stool pigeon, and
had given place to the best class of share-
holders —the class that asks no questions
and humbly accepts a loss as the will of
Allah. All told, Quilty had sold and re-
ceived on 82 shares in the six weeks between
his pegging and the dry-rot of the boom, and
two weeks thereafter he had but £3O. Some
of it had gone in riotous living, some in splen-
did raiment, some in by-drinkings—but
nearly half of it had gone by the water as it
eame by the wind. Other enterprising pro-
moters had told Quilty the same tales of the
Silver Blow Extended and the Broken llill
Boulder No. 1 North as he had told Berger
and others of the Brian Boru, and he had
believed them.
Then the boom cracked with a noise that
was heard at Menindie, and Tom Quilty
woke up. He went to bed early that night.
Ilis head ached. He tried for the second
time in his life to think. Here was a great
silver mine—the Brian Boru —and it had
no capital for its discoverer to eat and ro
drink and to be clothed in. If the Broken
Hill itself were to be in such a position,
what would its directors do? After asking
himself this question all night, he asked it
of his particular publican in the morning.
“See me mahn,” said Quilty, “shposin’
there do be a mine, an’ it spind its money,
what do it do?”
“Make calls,” replied the publican
promptly. “Look at the paper this morning
-—you’ll see about a hundred of these snide
syndicates making calls.”
“Make calls? What do they be callin’?”
“They call on the shareholders to pay a
pound a share, or a shilling, or a fiver —just
what they think they want.”
Quilty did not “think” he wanted any-
thing. He knew he did. He wanted calls.
“ ’Tis a pound I’ll call.” said he to him-
self. “and I’ll thry Berger first.”
The little high-voiced German stopped
working the tobacco-cutting machine as
Quilty entered and said in his thin treble,
“Goot mornink, Herr Gwilty. Shall you
call for somethinks?”
“I’ve called for me call. Mistlier Berger.”
“Gall! What gall, Herr Gwilty?”
“I’ve called for me call on tli’ Brian
Boru.”
“Her Prian Boru? A mine? I hade der
name of mining, Herr Gwilty! I think not
I shall pay some more.”
“Berger! I've called for me call! A
pound a share, Berger.”
“I think not that I shall pay galls, Herr
Gwilty ! I think it shall be more better if I
lose der shares.”
“You can’t get away from me like that.
Berger. I’ve called for me call. Give me
me call. Berger, or I’ll stop your little
County Kerry voice, Berger, me man ! I'll
break up your shop, Berger! Don’t make
me shnakeheaded whin I've called for me
call !”
The little German, impressed by the vir-
tuous indignation, and the bigness of his
threat and of himself, paid the five pounds
ruder protest, and Quilty left the shop in
great good humor. He had found a new re-
venue in the slump, and he set forth for a
new victim. But the second man was
keener and not handicapped by the Berger
voice and nationality.
“Brian Boru !” he said scornfully. “That’s
another of the dogs and monkeys I got
caught in. And a call now, is it?”
“I've called for me call,” parroted Quilty.
“When was it made?”
“This mornin’, me man.”
“This morning, and you want it now?
Who are the directors?”
“I am. me man.”
“You! The whole board?”
Quilty did not know what a board was.
but he said that he was it anyhow, and that
he’d called for his call.
“Who’s the secretary?”
“I am, me man.” ~
“The secretary too! Where’s the office?”
Quilty didn’t know, but he repeated that
he’d called for his call.
“What’s the number of the lease? How
many men have you employed? I haven’t
seen a report.”
That was enough for Quilty. He retreated
with the remark that he’d only called for
his call, and hearing the threats of the sus-
picious shareholder, who kept repeating that
Quilty would have to produce the lease and
the receipt for the rent, or be interviewed
by a policeman. Quilty went away trem-
bling. This mining was a bad business any-
way.
“You have to have a lease, it seems to me,
an’ pay the Guv’mint money, an’ have
offices, an’ directhors, an’ boards, an’ min
workin’ —an’ whin ye’ve paid all thim, what
would be lift for a poor bhoy?”
Tie thought again that day until his brain
had corns on it by reason of the pressure of
his skull, and that night he packed his new
portmanteau and faded away over the South
Australian border.
But his industry still flourishes, and there
have been thousands of officially con-
stituted syndicates since then with no more
and no less results than the Brian Boru.
That’s what Ardlethan mostly is—very-
few shows with excellent prospects, and for
the rest hot air and water : old self-deceivers
with wire whiskers; prattling geologists ex-
plaining the genesis of metallic occurrence
by “galvanic eruptions,” wild men with pegs
and granite outcrops, doping themselves
with “’undreds o’ millyuns er thousan’s.”
And only one man on the field giving good
advice to speculators. On a moonlight night
he destroyed the scenery by singing “We’d
better bide a w T ee.”
The shipping of £2OOO worth of ore in
six months is still held by some of these
enthusiasts to justify market values of half
a million. But the Ivangiara mine shipped
in five weeks 1000 tons, bulking 22dwts.
gold, 20oz. silver and 19 per cent, copper—-
and no man speaks loudly of Kangiara these
times.
Tin was the boom of a day. To be exact
the apex of it was held only for a quarter
of an hour. The Stock Exchange vestibule
for that day. and two or three to follow, was
filled with men talking for a moment and
running away from each other without a
reply to questions that had seemed terribly
important—talking by touch almost —all
mad as foraging ants. To a sixpenny rise
in a stock, men stuck out their stomachs
with much prominence of those muscles
called by mv manicurist “the abomin-
able muscles.” and then the market
fell a shilling. Immediately the abominable
muscles disappeared, the convexities became
concave, the Southern elevations of these
enthusiasts which had jutted so haughtily
towards Woolloomooloo became concave to
both facades —in a manner of speaking
retiring one upon the other.
Yet for all this the Last Optimist will
never arrive. The Hope that is the Fool’s
Income has done wonders for Australia;
though it is just as well to have a gloomy
pessimist to correct it when the madness
rises to its zenith.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


a W estinghouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
. attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
_
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 334 to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, 7M and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
F.M.
® m
Fairbanks-Morse
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
c ' ! —le. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
windmill pump.
ail description in Catalog N0.1939VR. .
Fairbanks-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline)
Fairbanks, Morse & Go.
Wabash Ave. and
Eldredge Place
Chicago,
U. S. A.
Agents:
C. H. RELPH
Sidney, N. S. W,
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane. Queensland
V B A OS *
OUR NEW CATALOGUE OF
ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES
ai)d REQUISITES— —
IS NOW READY.
POST FREE ON APPLICATION TO
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
Economy Tiering Machine.
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine .
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings, Melbourne.
Write for full particulars to
New Digestions for Old
—strength for debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health—such are the good results following a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has beep the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation sure some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
After Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1$ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues.
Ask us for References.
Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that-Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or ’phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL. & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCH NER & CO., 32M ?rKf" ey -
The METZ- 22 at £lB5 Costs Little to Maintain
People said it couldn’t be done. But here it is—a thoroughly practical Car
for £lB5, that cuts the upkeep down to a very low level. The Metz-22 is
the result of organised effort on a large scale. Thousands of them are
made every year. Result: High Efficiency and Low. Cost.
The Metz-22 will run up to fifty miles per hour—taking big hills on top speed
without any hitches or breaks. It runs over thirty mil<ss to the gallon, and
mil do from 8000 to 10,000 miles on the same tyres.
Why pay three or four times the price for a car that will not serve yoti
anv better’ Why saddle vourself with a heavy upkeep cost when a Metz-22
will run so economically?' £lB5 is the price And you’ll know it must be
a good-looking car when we tell you that 33£ % of the cars we sell are bought
by medical men, to whom appearance is a strong factor.
We are ready to show the Metz-22 at work—anytime—anywhere. Ask us
to pick you up for a trial run. More “Metz” facts* are given in the folder.
Ask •for - 'YOUR copy to-day.
8 HELIICAR LTD.,
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), ,SYDN~'
METZ GARS,
WAVERLEY GARS,
INDIAN MOTOR
CUTS
on
HORSES
FLINT’S MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Calls, Cuts,
Fistula or Broken. Knees on t orses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35. , from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Brofi., Sydney and Brisbane, or from
O, Bi FLINT, Manufacturing Chemist, ADELAIDE.
A “WATEROUS” PLANT MEANS REAL
EFFICIENCY FOR THE SAWMILLER!
Good things cost good money, and they are worth it. Cheap brains always
produce a cheap article. Good machinery pays for its cost over and over
again. Bad machinery is money thrown away. These things are childishly
simple, yet so little understood or practised.
A “Waterous” Sawmilling Plant isn’t the cheapest you could install. But
it’s real economy to spend the money it costs, for it more than pays for itself
in increased efficiency. If that’s what you wq.nt, ask our expert to go fully
into the matter.
We also stock the highest grades of speedy Woodworking Machines, including:
3 & 4 CUTTER PLANERS
SPINDLE MOULDERS
CHAIN MORTISERS
TENONING MACHINES
SANDERS
WOODf BENDING MACHINES
CONCAVE FELLOE SAWING MACHINES
TWO-SIDE FELLOE PLANING MACHINES
SPOKE AND HANDLE BLANK SAWS
DOVE-TAILERS
AUTOMATIC HUB TURNING MACHINES
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. COODALL & GO., LTD.
(Universal Machinery Merchants),
303*5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
’Phones: City 6427-8.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK. LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
OURNE : 33 William St.
Phone-City 5117.
A SAVING of 50/. in ELECTRICITY BILL
WE CAN IMPROVE the Electric Lighting of your store by 50%,
ttnd show you at saving' of the whole cost of the alterations in 12
months under the usual conditions of lighting stores.
ALSO, WE CAN GIVE YOU A LIGHT WHICH EXACTLY MATCHES DAYLIGHT.
SEND FOR OUR PAMPHLET ON THIS SUBJECT.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd.
[l
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
’Phone—City 3520.
BRISBANE: Roma St.
’Phone—Cent. 3676.
Fireproof Buildings ot
Fikro-Cement (Asbestos) Sheets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable for Dwellings, Theatres, Malls,
Warehouses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
three-fourths the quantity of studding and labor tor a
building of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cenieni is.made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plas'er.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A pure Spirit
WOLFES
s;
Combine Efficiency with Economy and Neatness
REIL
using
by
The Modern
Insulating Material.
COLD STORAGE INSULATION 8 Insul&tio
FAST SUPERSEDING ALL OTHER METHODS OF INSULATION.
2in. of Nonpareil Cork equals 4in. of Charcoal.
J. WILD RIDGE <St SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street,
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves* Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “ Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Cordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
HIGH-GRADE TOOLS FOR
MODERN MACHINE SHOP EQUIPMENT.
Thule CranK Shapers.
Their practical design, strength and attractive workmanship appeal to all users of Modern High-grade Tools.
The powerful positive CranK Motion and heavy ram insure perfect accuracy of stroke, and permit
of the heaviest cuts being taken. ... . . . „ ’
The Length of StroKe and position of ram can be changed instantly without leaving the
work, and while the tool is in motion. . .
In a Thule the operator has no need to stop and adjust the feed for different heights of cross-rail-the Auto-
feed takes care of all this. Ample capacity for Keyseating-Revolving table adjustable to any angle, with swivel vyce.
Call and inspect our stock of these modern tools or write for full Descriptive Catalogue, also High-grade
Milling* Planing, Drilling, Screwing Grinding Machines, High-speed Lathes, etc.
Parke & Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BRUCE PEEBLES & CO. LTD.
EDINBURGH
High-Class Alternating & Direct Current
MOTORS Always in Stock.
A “" TS N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
Brisbane Representatives —GORDON FAINE LTD., BRISBANE.
Block shows 3-Phaso Alternator similar to sets supplied to (1) for Sydney
Woollen Mills, (3) for Ararat, Vic., and on order for Townsville Pumping Plant.
5
