

THE GENIAL SPIRIT.
R. GS-. WATKINS dfe CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 ISlent Street, Sydney,
ivriTiiYio and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’"and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available;
The Shopkeeper Needing Financial Aid
s; sisrsf gStSarMht »
S. SSSpTSscfrBJ LOWEST INTEREST IN AUSTRALIA!
N S W. Mont De Piete D. 8 I. Co. Ltd.,
Head Office : 74 Castiereagh St. 74, Sydney.
Opposite National Amphitheatre..
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W
215*217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Mm
Doctors Recommend
CILBEYS DRY
3E3C t> JEI JFfcT.
.*j»i
(jadlei’i Orient (jotel.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING *V
Guaranteed
(/. C, Ludlow ici & Son, Ld
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
\
" Take it back,
I must
HUTt
Pint-Apple Brand
cvnv
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
J
unket
iriaHHUEI
n
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, C.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD
are specially construdled to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
bvbvn
f
§
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
'ffe. - "
SS-.
m ■
V \ .
•x - ,,
v n v - ~
--. -r
* "nKiWi'tf'lL
WHAT IS MALTHOID ? It is the best roofing in the world, bar none. Even a millionaire
couldn't get a better roof for his mansion than a Malthoid Roof. It is far superior to
shingles and iron, and has many points of superiority over slates and tiles. It is lighter
than any of these materials, is far cheaper than most, and is water and weatherproof all the time.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative.
The Paraffine Paint Co., Chains House, Sydney-
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD I ABEL
WHITE LABEL s v o
EXTRA
SPECIAL
jMat-Virhie &*
machimrv merchants
l 36? KifiT STRri r .Hta'r 1 *>ney.ksu'
The difference between the Blackstone Oil
Engine and any other oil engine is the difference
between a good paying investment and an expen-
sive speculation.
Portable and stationary types. All sizes.
Write for Catalogue “O B.”
Blacks}on| ngi nes
4u7ype& & S/Z£s KEf>riAf Stoca
HELIDON SPA
“It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
of Helidon Spa* HELIDON SPA is Nature's Eliminant*
STARKEYS LTD., Agents ,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
f©l.34—No. 1735.]
[Thursday, May 15, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


25-Volume ENCYCLOPEDIA for 30/-
Nelson’s Encyclopaedia, in cloth finding. The newest, most authori-
tative. The most useful and interesting encyclopaedia published. It con-
tains 70,000 articles and over 1,000,000 topics, extensively illustrated.
30/- the set. Posted 34/-
CEORCE ROBERTSON & CO. PTY., LTD., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
T
AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL ANTHEM.
HR proprietors of the “Weekly Times Annual
(Melh.), offer a prize of Five_ Guineas tor a set
of verses suitable to be set to music as an Australia
National Anthem. The only conditions are (If
the Anthem shall consist of three six-line verses, a
a chorus or refrain of four lines. (2) That no
shall contain more than eight syllables. W
the copyright of the Anthem shall become the P
perty of the “Weekly Times Annual.’ (4) Tft
award of the Editor shall be considered as
Verses must reach the office of the Weekl
Annual,” Flinders Street, Melb., not later
Thursday, June 19.
than
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic. Contains no Cocaine
or other poisonous drug. Suitable for old and young.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Intluenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike Cough Medicines “Eumenthol Ju-
jubes” do not interfere with the Digestion;
on the contrary, they have a beneficial effect,
as their Antiseptic properties prevent ab-
normal fermentation of the food, and thus
they prove helpful for sufferers from Indiges-
tion and Dyspepsia when taken after meals.
The Lancet says; “Proved to be as effec-
tive bactericidally as is Creosote.”
MOST
UDS
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes are sold at Chemists and Stores, tins 1/6.
Forwarded post free on receipt of stamps by the Manufacturers,
Hudson's Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
r; 3 Box 1520 G.P.O. 17 York Street.. -SYDNEY.
The Red Page
The Canberra Sonnet
Sixty entries were received for the com-
petition for a guinea sonnet on the Federal
Capital, and of these at least a dozen were
well-wrought and interesting. Exactly half
of the sonneteers spoke of Canberra with en-
thusiastic or modified appreciation, includ-
ing one -whose enthusiasm ran to 16 lines;
the other half of the sonneteers sang more
in anger than in sorrow. Perhaps, after all.
Oscar Walters is right:—
But we, we still must dream, and still we see.
Beyond parochialism’s dreary slough
The shinihg city we cannot forget.
But, oh, the way is wearying, and we
Are sorely harassed; I can only know
The time for sonneteering is not yet.
Though so many of the sonnets were of
the high. ’*0, hail!” kind, few succeeded in
getting into the prize-winners’ class. We
print three f.a.q. specimens'*:—
There is no Federal Capital, no theme
For eager sonneteers to work upon.
There is no budding, teeming Babylon
In that weird village by the Cotter’s stream.
The fulsome speech and psalm dispel our dream ;
The city that our hopes were builded on
Has been to us forbidden, and is gone,
And petty interests mock our fruitless scheme.
Born amid doubt and sneer and vapid vent
Of stale invective, thou shalt yet arise
Sheer o’er the head of dwindling enemies,
A nation’s glory, yea a wonderment
To worlds unborn. Nor needest thou resent
The petty murmur of provincial lies,
Fair city of virginal expectancies,
Canberra, capital of a continent!
O thou, Australia’s heart, beat strong and free,
And we shall lead all lands in the long fight
For equal justice, on and always on:
See, all the ghosts of the grey past are gone;
The bright dawn breaks with streams of beck’ning
light:
Australia wakes to her high destiny.
Q.
JOHN ASH.
A CITY OF THE MISTS.
The Evening Mists, a drifting purple Sea
Through which, unfolding like a pale moon flower,
Glows a fair vision—dome and spire and tower
All gleaming white and changing Jaerily
While in the deep lake moveth eerily
A shadow city, dim roof and tree and bower
All magic wrought in this the mystic hour
Made sweet with Night’s first breathed melody.
The glowing Dawn no dreaming City shows,
But curv&d Hills with Eucalypt abloom,
And Flame Tree breaking into crimson fire —
But far away where Kosciusko’s snows
Are whitelv gleaming ’gainst a soft, grey gloom,
The mist-bom City fades like dead desire.
S.A.
A. HOWE.
We build a city. In our hearts we build
With high hopes, strong desires, and,-shining dreams
Of human brotherhood, a town which seems
The new Jerusalem to those who gild
The lily of a candid earth with spilled
Honey from Heav’n—a town which yet Wells deems,
As Mill deemed, City of Man: though fair it gleams,
Being with sweetness as with sunshine filled,
We build a city. Instant for a sign
Of brotherhood, we raise it in a land
Where still men live who laugh at others’ pains
And batten on them. With such men at hand,
Excellencies have poured out wordy wine
To name our dream —this city of the plains.
VICTORIA.
LESBIA V. KEOGIL.
The blue eyes of the baby capital
Dream in the golden mist.
Vonnie Meston begins, but has no further
imagery to charm us. “Lace not thy boots
with pink official tape.” advises Gordon
Fink. In a most irregular sonnet, with lines
-containing anything from three to five feet,
T. Hirst paints a pretty picture of a dead
Canberra of. the future :
And in their cold graves, side by side,
They sleep there now, those heroes bold,
Who once were Austral’s hope and pride.
They died from thirst.
Another sonnet, in trochees, arid with only
four feet per line, Is printed as a pleasant
curiosity.
Hush-a-bye, dear Baby-town :
(Other towns must toil and play,
You can slumber day by day.)
Hid away from Fortune’s frown,
And our foemen—white and brown,
(Who in search of spoil would stray,
Where a brooklet winds its way?)
Sleep well on your fern-clad down t
Hush, O dear one, do not cry
For more water. By-and-bye
You shall drink your little fill,
You shall have all gold can buy,
And as we each want supply,
We shall deem you dearer still.
VICTORIA.
FRANK BELLMAN.
Mick Sweeney, after a rather rocky
octette, gives the capital a new name: —
....A capital foredoomed? —-
Australia’s stillborn offspring, bred in* shame —
A waste set in a waste, where nothing bloomed,
As hopeless as was Sodom, of fair fame,
Where national hopes* are, for a time, entombed.
“Can-Borrow” should havfe been the chosen name.
Roy R. Read is chiefly climatic: —
The air is dense, the shades of eve are dree,
And mingling 1 with the dust clouds grow intense.
Weird js the ghostly, purling turbulence
Of vapid rivers of imagery.
And o’er the “grand ole flag” the sign of three
Gilt balls hangs high in dusty imminence.
The hot wind, heavy with pulverulence,
Moans mystic motifs of a Heptarchy.
Dust unto dust, and through the dust have fled
The fat flag-flappers of the Empire s main.
The rabbits creep along the Cotter’s bed.
The red mist settles o’er the heat-hazed plain. ?
And ever with the sullen sough of dread,
The red-eyed Boreas moans anew for rain.
And Mick Much, in ms righteous re-
lapses into the vernacular: —
Wot vap is this erbout the capital?
My tabby sez they christened it wi" beer
’N’ bands ’n' all the heads frum fur ’n’ near,
’N - iiever charged a deener, square ’n’ all.
If it ud bin a place thet got the call
It wouldn’t ’urt, but this lost corher ’ere—-
It’s guyverin Ostralia’s ’ernisphere,
’N* makin' boshter biz luk on'v small!
Where’s Sydney? Ain’t McGowen mixi.n’ ’em?
Wot’s Melbourne done?—ur, blew me, I’ve the
pip....
There are left, after this weeding-out, four
sonnets that, in addition to technical cor-
rectness, have in them something like poetry,
or thereabouts, "Konder” writes with de-
lightful irony. “Youth,” whose sonnet
suffers from the overlapping of the octette
into the sestette. proffers some pleasant
imagery. F. Jackson comes nearest to the
prize-winner with a dramatic metaphor. But
Nina Murdoch, 77 Ben Boyd Road, Neutral
Bay, Sydney, in her prize-winning sonnet
shows not only a fine knowledge of the
thought structure of this difficult form, but
throughout admirably preserves her striking
allegory and clinches it with a pregnant
phrase. r io her a mere guinea has been sent.
The competition has shown that Australia
has. among her comparatively obscure
writers, many fine sonneteers. All complete
sonnets quoted will be paid for at space
rates.
Australia dreamed. And in her dreams did
start
The birth-pains long expected, long delayed.
And as a miracle, the pangs iccre stayed
And newly-born, fair cradled on her heart
There lay the infant city, and the smart
Of travail was forgot. Now there were made
Gifts to the new-born child. Around were
laid
Wealth of the forest-land and farm ; a part
Of this vast realm that she might cull her
own;
The royal gift of Kosciusko's snow;
Prone at her feet the noble bay is thrown,
Here crystal rivfer waters ever floiv —
Australia ipoke. And she is there alone
Except for desolation and—a crow.
n.s.w. Konder.
Beneath one starry roof six sisters spun
A wondrous tapestry on which they spent —
So told the feted guests who came and xvent —
A love and labor that outshone the sun.
But when their common task was well begun
And brilliant colors on the woof were blent
A petty snatching made a little rent
That spreading fanwise caused the warp to
run
Awry. And though in unison again
The six tooh up the rudely broken tale ,
Thereafter those who at their bidding caaie
Found wine 'and song and laughter all in
vain,
For they, as through a houri’s ravished veil
Beheld the City of the Eldest's shame.
N.S.W.
YOUTH.
Through wide tumultuous seas of argument,
Tossed here and there by each opposing wave,
That aye in spouting fury blindly drave,
The sad young mariner, Australia, went.
Still clinging to his frail raft, Good Intent;
Until his only thought teas hoto to save
Himself at the first chance piat fortune
gave—
Else he might sink before the storm were
spent.
So now 'we see him pace a barren land:
His First Glad Shout has died upon the lee.
His shattered raft lies useless -.on the sand.
He looks back on the ocean wistfully,
And now and then he makes a mournful
stand.
And wonders sadly when the end will be.
VICTORIA.
R. JACKSON.
CANBERRA.
(BY NINA MUBDOCH).
She, who should bear her as a bounteous
queen,
Like some poor suppliant beggar-maiden
stands
Out on the barren plain, with empty hands;
No flashing jewelled stream with silver sheen
Girdles her waist, but in its stead a mean
Brown belt of stagnant waterholes. And
lands
Far distant will make mock to see thick
bands
Of dust, where a bright fillet should have
been.
Haply the years with cunning fingers, swift
Will weave this beggar maid a costly gown
Of borrowed splendor, and to deck her hair
Will bring a flashing diadem for' gift.
Yet though she wear fine raiment and a
crown,
What power can make a barren woman bear?
John Foster Fraser, since his bad break
about Australia, lias had time to “do” The
Land of Veiled Women, and panama, and
What it Means (Cassell, per Dymock’s
Library). Panama evidently means a handy
subject for a hastily written journalist's
article, some equally hasty historical details
(ride articld, “Panama,” in any encyclo-
paedia), and a fine series of supplied photo-
graphs. The time has evidently come for
the decline and fall of the Foster Frasers of
this world. The kinematograph tells in one-
tenth of the time more about the construc-
tion of the ditch that will make two islands
grow where only one grew before, than any
volume of dead facts illustrated by moveless
photographs.
Re [?]
Federal llefcrendurns, the Cane For and
Against, is a rather hectic work of 80 pages,
published by Albert J. Mullett, for the Com-
monwealth Government (price not stated).
In accordance with the electoral law, which
provides that all political matter published
during election time should be signed by the
author, this pamphlet bears the name of R.
C. Oldham, Chief Electoral Officer for the
Commonwealth, who gives his address as
Melbourne. Though the date of printing is
not given, it has apparently been published
before the issue of the writs, and thus the
signature of the author is not technically
necessary; but as it is being circulated dur-
ing the period in which all electoral litera-
ture must be signed, R. C. Oldham, the
author, is commended for having put his
name to this pamphlet. But there are
penalties inherent in this publicity ; for a
perusal of the pamphlet makes it quite clear
that R. C. Oldham is a person of unsound
mind. For 40 pages he argues frantically
in favor of the six referenda, rising in his
last pages to a shriek of execration against
all persons foolish and criminal enough to
vote a single “No”; and then starts riot-
ously off for another 40 pages in a frenzied
attempt to combat every one of the irrefu-
table arguments he has so truculently penned.
In the first half of his book he has poured
“oceans of contempt and heaped acres of
loathing upon the Fusion, and then he stands
on his head and flings mountains of hatred
and reservoirs of spurn at the Labor party.
Not a hint is given to indicate what hap-
pened to R. 0. Oldham in the brief interval
between pages 40 and 41. It is impossible
to discover from this weird screed how
the conscientious elector should vote, nor
how R. C. Oldham himself intends to vote.
One suspects that the real author is the
High Commissioner for Australia. Yet a
close consideration of the style of R. C.
Oldham indicates on which side of the Yes-
No fence he is ready to descend. In his
arguments for the Referenda he speaks
jauntily and, clearly. He uses colloquial
speech with dramatic effect, even if his
metaphors are rather mixed. “Man must
live; and when he feels himself hopelessly
squeezed in the jaws'"*of economic vice,
and inadequately paid for his labor, his
wages remaining the same when cost of
living rises like a sky rocket, it is no wonder
he kicks. ... Sugar, Coal. Shipping, all con-
trolled by Monopolies ! Pretty fipir this for
a young country !.... So much for the Uni-
fication Bogey!’’ From this colloquial style
R. C. Oldham, when he comes to the other
side of the fence, degenerates into dullness.
“Times change; circumstances alter; ideas
develop and disclose the laws of yesterday
as insufficient or unsuited to the needs of to-
day. ...But whether Parliament proceeds to
use the powers now sought wifh the purest
of nibtives, whether it commits honest mis-
takes, or whether, on occasion, it yields to
sinister influences, the same effect will be
observable —a feeling of nervous apprehenr.
sion, no one knowing what the morrow holds
in store for him.” The redundancy of the
latter sentence shows that R. C. Oldham
was getting tired, or running out of argu-
ments. There is no padding in the R. C.
Oldham of the first 40 pages. Evidently
what happened to R. C. Oldham between
page 40 and page 41 was a serious lesion of
the brain; the sparkle has gone out of his
literary style, and he lumbers wearily where
once he joyously leapt.
[Arthur H. Adams, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.
Private afldress: “Marama,” Cremorne-road, Cremorne
Point. Take Cremorne Ferry (2d.), then climb up a
steep street that looks l'ke a step-ladder with three
rungs missing, wade through the mud, and you will
see a green gate that pathetically needs painting.
That’s it. Don’t make a noise with your boots.
There’s a,new baby.]
Futurism
Evidently “Futurism,” that post-post-im-
pressionism in art which is making such a
loud noise in Europe, has a future. A writer
in* a recent Fortnightly takes the move-
ment seriously. Futurist pictures are not
isolated extravagances of a new technique;
they are an integral part in a living scheme
of expression. For Futurism is not confined
to painting and sculpture : it has taken pos-
session, or seeks to take possession, of litera-
ture. This movement is blatantly modern';
it banishes the nude from art and sex sub-
jects froin, literature, and finds in war and
patriotism “the only hygiene of the world.”
To the futurist, whether artist or writer, a
motor-car in motion has a higher aesthetic
value than a Greek statue. He sees more
beauty in a sky-scraper than in the Grand
Canal of Venice. “Art should not be an
escape from, but an exaltation of, the i-ed
impetus of life. Art's function is not merely
to titillate the dispassionate aesthetic feeling
of the dilettante or connoisseur, but to thrill
with a keen, vital emotion the actual experi-
ence of life. Form is nqt an end in itself;
its sole function is to extract the whole emo-
tional quality of its content.” And the
proper subject-matter for 20tli century art
are the 20th century emotions of “steel, pride,
fever and speed.” To achieve the presenta-
tion of a content with the maximum of dras-
tic effect, the Futurist was compelled to in-
vent a new technique. And the aim of the
Futurist is not to reproduce a picturesque
copy of some stationary pose, but all rh«
emotions and sensations which radiate to Ih
mind of the spectator from the
tion of the object painted.
It is said that this new movement hat
achieved feats in the realm of literature
quite as impressive and as sensational as in
that of painting. These may be found in the
work of M. Marinetti, a poet who is the offi
cial chief of the movement. He founded i ,
1904 an international review, Poesiv ■ i,
1909 he published the first futurist m’aiii
festo in the Figaro ; and since then lie has
held meeting after meeting in the sacred
cause throughout Italy. In that cuuntrv
Futurism has swept the universities and
the disciples of the new faith—it embraces
politics and music, as well —number 50 000
The rest of Europe is sitting up and takine
notice. Marinetti has published a number
of remarkable volumes of poetry in "free
verse,” in which “the principle of onomato-
poeia is carried from the sphere of words to
the sphere of metre.” Samples of his phrases
such as: Oh, wind crucified beneath the
nails of tlic stars , I 1 he sad towns crucified
on the great crossed arms of the white road
are said to be not mere isolated flashes of
poetical riches, but casual samples of a
grandiose opulence displayed in every one of
his lines. And his great prose epic, Mafarka
Le Futuriste, is acclaimed as “an Arabian
night illumined by the galvanic current of
some 20th century genie, as it flashes image
after image on the multicolored sheet of
some dancing cinematograph.” That phrase
sounds rather futuristic itself. Also, “The
style bounds ivith a lithe male crispness.’’
As for the future of Futurism, the writer
states: “Its real prospects and its real signi-
ficance are to be found in the fact that
though extravagant and excessive, it is in
essence a concentrated manifestation of the
whole vital impetus of the 20th century.”
And 11. G. Wells in literature, Rodin in
sculpture, and Richard Strauss in music,
are said to be in close affinity with the new
gospel.
The Futurists have reached the United
States. Some 2000 works of alleged art
were exhibited in New York recently, com-
prising all the modern “schools” from Ingres
to the Cubists and Futurists. One critic
aptly remarks: “If it represents an aberra-
tion, it represents a world-like aberration.”
Another says : “The Ftiturists are breathing
the breath of life into an art that is long
since dead, but won’t believe it.” It is
stated that these artists are aiming at no-
thing less than a new' form, based upon
primitive forms, that shall express
with greater intensity the new feelings and
emotions aroused by all the objects in the
natural world. A third critic admits that
the theory of the movement sounds con-
vincing, until one sees the work itself, “when
there comes the shock, and the untrained
eye quite refuses to believe that many of the
.efforts are meant to be taken seriously
To understand these pictures one must divest
one’s self of all preconceived notions of art,
of form, of proportions as generally under-
stood. It is not what does the picture repre-
sent, but what does it make one feel?” Pre-
sumably, if it makes you feel raving mad,
that is what the artist meant. What
the Futurist has set obit to do is apparently
not to make a descriptive imitation of nat-
ural forms. Whatever he succeeds in doing
he certainly does not .succeed in that. In
music the first Futurist has also arrived, in
the person pf Arnold Schoenburg. of Vienna.
In his music he eschews melody in every
form, tonality he knows not. and such a
word as harmony is not in his vocabulary.
His new music is “new exquisitely horrible
sounds. Your nerves are scraped.” Yet
Schoenberg is a professor, occupies the
highest official position in the Austrian Em-
pire for the teaching of music, and has writ-
ten a book on harmony that has been widely
praised. Futurism promises to be interest-
ing, anyway.
On the anniversary of Kendall's birthday
(April 18) the pupils of the Milton schools
erected a cairn on the ruins of the poet’s
birthplace, about three miles from Milton.
The Minister for Public Instruction intends
to preserve as another memorial to Kendall
the gully and waterfall near Gosford, on a
rock near which the poet carved his name.
The manufacture of Australian literary
shrines has commenced.
Another edition of The Poetical Works of
Adam Lindsay Gordon (Ward Lock, per
Dymock. Sydney), is'neat and X presumably>
cheap. The preface consists of a reprinted
article, unsigned, from the Adelaide Regis-
ter. There are now enough editions of Lor-
don to satisfy any conceivable choice of for-
mat.


w acre
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR THE WINTER FASHIONS
A r ew Designs
f or *■'
MAIDS and • •
SMALL FIGUPES
,#Br
1509
«\» *>3
2060
63
ANTHONY HOPDEPNS Famous LowPr/ces
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Winter Fashion Book
is an authoritative guide to the
prevailing modes. The illustra-
tions faithfully depict selections
from the noteworthy display in
the Green Room of Charming Re-
ception Dresses and Evening Gowns,
Rich Fur Sets and Smart Ready-
to-Wear Costumes, Blouses and
Skirts. Fashions for Young Aus-
tralia are also shown, as well as
the New Millinery, Seasonable
Footwear and Lingerie. Write for
a copy,
POST FREE ON
APPLICATION.
, Jjfrit, a b r^
fin-p -t
' jA n *h° l ]y fferdcms
J L <&rrtoiJj
-- x LotS
RsfC-ej
'W.
4256
772
1544
1280
No. 413. Maid’s One-piece Robe, in Cream Estamene, raised waist line, large Sailor Collar,
rich Cluny Lace, Cuffs to match, for girls 12 to 17 —•
” Sizes, 33in„ 23/11; 30in., 24/C; 39in„ 24/11; 42in„ 25/6; 45in„ 25/11
No. 2000.—Maid’s Costume, in fine Navy Coating Serge, square shaped Collar and Cuffs of
Shot Ottoman Silk, for girls from 14 to 19 years—
Sizes, 45in., 32/6; 48in., 32/9; 51in., 32/11
No. 869. Maid’s Coat and Skirt Costume, in good quality Tweed, Coat has Norfolk
effect, Belt at waist, two-piece Skirt, suitable for girls from 13 to 19 years—
Skirt Length, 30in„ 22/6; 32in., 22/11; 34in., 23/6; 36in., 23/11
No. 2058. Maid’s Frock, of rough Winter Serge, in dainty Vieux Rose shade, Magyar effect,
side-front fastening, finished Piping of Black Velvet, suitable for girls from 13 to 19 years—
Sizes, 42in„ 22/6; 45in., 22/11; 48in., 23/6; 51in„ 23/11
No. 1509.—Child’s Frock, in fine Navy Coating Serge, Collar and Cuffs of fancy Saxe Blue
Delaine, also in all Navy, suitable for child from 6 to 13 years —
Sizes, 27in„ 12/6; 30in., 12/11; 33in„ 13/6; 36in„ 13/11; 39in., 14/6
No. 1280. Useful % -length Coat, of warm, soft Blanket Frieze, diagonal lapped seam
at back, with sham buttonholes and bone buttons; the deep round collar, revers, pockets and cuffs
finished black pipings, Silver Grey, Dark Grey, Reseda, Beaver, Sage and Nayy mixtures 29/6
Silk Hat, 257-
No. 772. A Dressy Winter Coat, well built of Herringbone Heather Homespun Tweeds,
in warm tones of Brown, Dark Moss Green, also Light and Dark Grey ; small design shows front
of this coat, which is smartly finished on collar, revers, cuffs and button holes with Brown Cloth
pipings 25/6; Velvet Hat, 257-
No. 4236. Stylishly Cut Full Length Coat, of Navy Cheviot Serge, loose back, single
fronts, the square collar at back, revers and cuffs finished fancy Silk Braid and black Satin
pipings 29/6; Felt Hat, 307-
No. 1544. Smart Winter Coat, well tailored in warm Diagonal Blanket Fleece Tweeds.
new shaped back with slanting lapped seam, sham holes and buttons, patch pockets, f-length, Light
and Dark Grey, Bronze Green and Brown Heather mixtures 29/6; Beaver Hat, 30/-
m
Date
'vtg Suite
mjsm
If
‘ ' f 3*&/2 P' 1
\sMPPt. *' ?a I famous
A NTffOHr HOPDEPNS Prices
Af "
Our Illustrated Price Lists
place the immense resources of
the New Palace Emporium at the
command of everyone. Write for
copies of anything you want, post
free on request, and reap the full
benefit of
Anthony Horderns'
Famous Low Prices
which are for both town and
country. To COUNTRY CUS-
TOMERS ordering through the
post the SAME PRICES are
charged as to people BUYING
OVER THE COUNTER, and the
SAME GOODS are sent, for if it
he true that the COUNTRY HELPS
THE TOWN, it is also true that
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS
LOW PRICES help the Country.
f
‘
r
L6f4 B 9&
Correct •:
y6r Wl NTEP WE-AQ
426
at ANTHONY HORDEPNS famous Low Prices
No. 9027. Useful Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Navy Twill Melton Serge, unlined Coat
"smartly finished, Black Satin Strappings, shaped sections on hips and Russia braid medallions* new
shaped Skirt with wide lapped seams 27/6; Hat, 21/-
No. 428. Coat and Skirt, of All-wool Cheviot Serge, in Black or Navy, high-waisted Coat
"with patent leather belt, lined through Black Silkette, well-shaped Skirt with lapped seam 42/-
Hat, 21/-
No 548/2. Coat and Skirt Costume, new design, in good dark Navy Cheviot Serge,
unlined Coat has high waist effect at back, with row of Black Satin buttons, collar and cuffs finished
with embroidery. Skirt is three-piece style and new shaped seams 17/11; Hat, 15/6
No 548/1 Stylish Coat and Skirt, in Navy or Black Cheviot Serge, high-waisted unlined
*Coat with Black patent leather belt, collar and cuffs of Black Satin. Four-piece Skirt and
plain front 21/9; Hat, 21/-
No. 426. Robe Costume, nicely cut from fine Coating Serge in Navy or Black, trimmed
black Satin pipings and buttons; Magyar bodice, skirt fastens centre back with wide lapped
seam 21/0; Felt Hat, 15/6
No. A 425. Coat and Skirt Costume, in new weave Heather Tweed Suiting, dark mixtures
of Brown or Bronze, coat has collar and revers finished black Satin facings, high waist piped
Satin, lined through with tailors’ twill; three-piece skirt with lapped seam and Satin
buttons 39/6; Velvet Hat, 30/-
No. L 614. Effective Robe Costume, in Black or Navy fine Coating Serge, fastens in front,
new “set in” sleeves, collar of cream Guipure, black Satin pipings and Mohair Buttons.. 29 / 6
Straw Hat, 25/-
No. 898. Smartly Cut Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Grey Granite Tweed ; coat is high
waisted and has new shaped back, skirt is three-piece, with front lap seam 35 / -
Also in Black and Navy Cheviot Serge (No. 892) 49 /6; Felt Hat, 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfieJ.d Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


AUTOMATIC
STARTS ITSELF! STOPS ITSELF!
jr —that is all
that is needed
to start or stop the patent
21
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING -s/k/PUMPING
INSTAELATION
SIMPLE - EFFICIENT
NO COSTLY ACCUMULATORS
PRACTICALLY NO ATTENTION
FOUR
HIGHEST
AWARDS
Sole Makers .
R.A.LISTER*C9L Ttt
Dursley. Glos
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT
(Lister-Bruston System—Patented).
This plant generates electricity automatically, and does away with large and
expensive storage battery. Can be started from drawing-room or bedroom.
With the exception of keeping the plant clean, lubricating and filling the
tanks, no attention is required.
Upon switching on the lights the plant works, and when the lights are turned
off the plant stops automatically.
The set is self-contained, and is delivered ready to work. No erection or
foundations necessary; all one has to do is to connect to the wires to the house,
shop, hall, hotel, or town lights, and fill up the tanks with oil. It is exceptionally
cheap as regards lighting costs, the user being able to enjoy all the many advantages
of electric light, at a rate per candle power cheaper than most systems of petrol
gas, acetylene, and other artificial lights, and have current always ready for lights,
fans, cooking, pumps, saws, separators, milking and chaffcutting, sewing and othei
machines.
Is absolutely safe and reliable ; no smell or fumes, dirt or smoke.
LET US SEND YOU FULLER DETAILS.
Made in Sizes from 20 to 5000 LIGHTS,
AGENTS-
New South Wales: W. G. WATSON 8 CO. LTD., 171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Victoria: SUTHERLAND 8 ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
*
*
'///A
Vi
srm
y
V
1
m
i
c
TV.
s\c
I lift
1
v»^S7r
V\|
5^
/V' r »
/y
RENEWED STRENGTH FOR THE WEAK
To instantly invigorate —to permanently strengthen —to safeguard yon
against illness and disease —to make you healthier and happier —and to
equip you with an abundance of reserve strength —that is the mission of
“Wincarnis ” As you take your wineglassful of “Wincarnis” daily, you
will feel yourself getting stronger, and you will experience a delicious
increase of vigor, vitality and reserve strength as the rich, revitalised
blood goes dancing "through your veins, making your whole body tingle
and glow with the new life that
4
*
r
rrrfTTTV
creates. Depression, Anaemia, Sleeplessness, Weakness, Brain-fag,
and Xerve troubles will disappear, and will be replaced by a
wealth of glorious health that will be a revelation to you.
Will you buy just one bottle of “Wincarnis” to-day, and prove its
supreme health-creating virtues for yourself? Remember that
“Wincarnis” has an unrivalled reputation of nearly th
—that it is recommended by over 10,000 doctors —
thousands of sufferers have proved, beyond question
life to the invalid—renewed strength to the weak—
brain workers—and a wealth of health to everyone.
irty years’ standing
•and that countless
, that it gives new
-increased vigor to
To-day is the best day to commence taking “Wincarnis.” Buy a bottle to-day from your Wine
Merchant or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and test its marvellous strengthening properties.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: FASSETT (Sl JOHNSON, 5 (St 7 BarracK Street. SYDNEY.
COLEMAN (St CO., Wincarnis WorKs, NORWICH, ENG.
The Inky Way.
Gordon and Gotch, Limited, have just celebrated
their diamond jubilee. The business was founded
in the Western Markets, Melbourne, a spot known as
“Bowden’s Folly” (an alderman of that name pro-
jected the markets, which were in an unfinished
state for a number of years). The founder was a big
braw Scot, named Alexander Gordon, whose news
agency was somewhat limited, the local newspapers
not being of much importance to the agents then.
English papers— Home News at Is. 6d. a copy,
Illustrated London News, Times and other Bull
publications were the usual stock-in-trade. After
a couple of years J. S. Gotch arrived from England,
via America, and joined Gordon. The pair moved
up the hill to extensive premises, near Temple Court,
and went ahead. About 1862 Gordon retired and
went back to his beloved Scotland with a bag full o’
siller.
There has been serious trouble at Warrnambool
(Vic.) between the local Standard and some of its
advertisers and subscribers, and recently a petition
was handed up to the proprietors of the newspaper,
detailing the citizens’ grievances in bald, unvarnished
language. To wit: “We desire to bring under your
notice our emphatic protest against the manner in
which matters of public interest have of late been
dealt with by your journal. The dearth of public
spiritedness and the lack of aggression is deplored
. . . .and we feel that the progress of the town is not
being assisted to the fullest extent by the conserva-
tive attitude of your organ. .. .In the minds of your
advertisers and subscribers, the opinion is held that
a better discrimination is required in the subject
matter of your press, and emphasis should ever be
laid on all matters calculated to advance the prestige
and importance of this town. It is further con-
sidered that the town merits something better than
a mere advertising medium, and the undersigned are
agreed that unless some definite action is undertake,!
by v our organ in the direction indicated, there is
no option but to organise an effort, with a v t!
securing adequate representation in press matters ”
The reply of the newspaper co. was to write To each
of the signatories of the “grossly insulting docu
ment, asking if, on reflection, they endorsed the
offensive language used and the intimidation im
phed. The signatories in formal meeting said thev
assuredly did, and “repudiated the grotesque and
unworthy insulting reply to their petition.” Some
where about there the editor of the paper resigned’
and, at time of writing, all was blanky ami com’
pressed fury. 11
* * * *
From Sydney Telegraph ,(22/4/’l3) : “Each week
a careful selection of the jokes and humorous nic
tures from the leading comic papers of all lands is
made and presented, together with some bright Aus
tralian work, in the pages of the Comic Austra-
lian.” “A careful selection.... from all lands
together with some Australian work” ! What a per
feet epitome it is of the Telegraph's policy in all
things !
E. Dwyer Gray, recently appointed manager of
the Daily Post (Hobart), was only about one con-
secutive week in the job when his health turned dog
on him so completely that he was compelled to
resign. Nowadays the Post is being run by direc-
tors Earle and Teniswood, pro tem.
Fritz Burnell, for two or three years past on a
Sydney paper, but consumed now with an unsatis-
fied longing to grow rubber on some tropic island,
has a little volume of his polished Bulletin and
other verses in the . press.
* * * *
“Pontius Potter”: The fiery little King Island
Record is on tour. That is to say, the proprietor,
Alfred Stephenson, as a result of certain unplea-
santness with some of the inhabitants, packed up
the editorial and publishing departments, put them
in his portmanteau, and left the island for the Tas-
manian mainland. He now produces an edition
called a “Wonder number,” wherever he happens to
be at the moment he feels like doing it.
“Munchausen Mulligatawny”: I plead guilty to
some of the charges levelled at cub reporters by
“Quarter Single” (B. 17/4/’l3), especially that of
writing “rash act” instead of “suicide.” I am em-
ployed at a press telegraphic agency, and recently
wrote up a man who suicided with a razor. Accord-
ing to custom I concluded my telegram to a country
newspaper with the words “no reason assigned for
rash act,” but the backblocks sub made it read “no
reason has been assigned for the gash act,” I’m still
wondering whether he was getting one back at me,
or whether the comp, had had another fortuitous
accident.
“Nemo” : In the old days of Melbourne journalism,
no member of the staff was ever hoisted or blown
upwards to the editor's chair. It was supposed that
if a man who had been a reporter or leader-
writer were promoted to the top, he would not com-
mand the respect of the fellows with whom he had
lately worked. That sort of folly is now buried with
tombstones at its head and feet. The editors of the
three Melbourne dailies have all held humbler billets
on their papers. G. H. F. Schuler, of the Age. is an
old hand there. He went from Bendigo to Svme’s
paper, and for years did Parliamentary and general
work. He was not born a German, but is of German
descent. In the same way, Cunningham, of the
Argus, was for many years in the Gallery, and did
general work in town and country when the House
wasn’t sitting. Ileney, of the S. M. Herald, started
as a youngster in that office —was-in the proof-read-
ing den to begin with. Ward, of Sydney Tele-
graph. is of the older school; he was an eloquent
Methodist parson when he went leader-writing for
the S. M. Herald. In Adelaide, Bonvthon, of the
Advertiser, began with the sweeping-out broom and
the message-running or thereabouts ; and Sowden, of
the Register —a comp, from a country paper—put
in years in the Gallery, from which he wrote the best
Parliamentary “smoking-room” sketches ever printed
in S. Aus.
HALF AND HALF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
it isn’t so long since I read a song
Of pleasure that’s jolly and love that’s strong;
And, just below it, a dismal ditty
That mocked all the while that it moaned self-pity.
Now, it’s my pet vice to be over-nice
In sitting a rail between fire and ice;
You may put me down as a vacillator
Betwixt either pole and the lone equator.
By all means kiss, in a whirl of bliss,
And dream there was never an hour but this.
By all means frazzle your soul to tatters,
And moan to the wreckage that “nothing matters.”
It’s jolly to fuss about “you” and “us” —■
And me and the moon, while you’re missing the ’bus.
And the pocket-Byronical pose, abusing
Fate and the world, may be most amusing.
But it’s good to laugh with the world, and quaff
A brimming beaker of half-and-half.
And there’s little in fizz beside the bubble,
And not very much in rum but trouble.
Oh! lashings of fizz with Lilith and Liz,
And round to the halls let the taxi whiz;
While heads are as light as the pockets are heavy
On levity’s bank let us make full levy.
Or set me to mope, with a well-drugged dope,
I’ll figure a fane to abandoned hope;
And my misery chords shall be tritely tropy,
In praise of the elderly Miss Ann Tliropy.
But I still incline, if the choice is mine,
To my amber ale and my good red wine,
And my bright-eyed mate, with her smile and chatter ;
And damme if Lizzie or Ann much matter.
MAJORCA.
WAIF.


General Electric
Co. (U.S.A.)
MINE, LOCOMOTIVES
1'
mmm
•mmm
FOR EVERY SERVICE.
19 in Operation and on
Order in Australasia.
General Electric Mining Locomotives are made
for direct or alternating current, Single or
Tandem operation ; with or without cable
reels; have inside or outside frames, motors
which are central “ tandem ” or “ end ”
mounted and are fitted with either cast-iron
or sheet steel frames.
Write for Bulletin 7790, which describes
many other types not here illustrated.
i.
Sis
■
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.
217 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Corner of Queen (El Little Collins Streets,
MELBOURNE.
SOLE ACfENTS FOR
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., U.S.A. BRITISH THOMPSON-HOUSTON CO., ENGLAND.
SUB-AGENTS—Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie St., Adelaide, S.A. ; Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.,Edward St., Brisbane ; Charles Atkins
& Co. Ltd., Queen St., Perth, W.A. : The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Cr. Stuart & Cumberland Sts., Dunedin; Fort St., Auckland.
Valuable alike *Z Invalid and Robust
” i V ! t <f.
A Complete Milk and Farinaceous Food.
Easy of Digestion, Most Agreeable to take, Simply and Quickly made.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet is recommended for general use in place of ordinary milk foods, gruel, etc. and is
particularly adapted to the needs of Dyspeptics, Invalids and the Aged. Being largely predigested it is
easy of assimilation. A cup of the ‘Allenburys’ Diet is useful in the forenoon, between meals.
The ‘Allenburys’ Diet may be taken with advantage, on going to bed, in the place of stimulants.
Being easily digested it promotes tranquil and
refreshing sleep, free from the depressing re-
action ir the morning, which often follows
the taking of spirits.
For those who cannot readily digest milk the
‘Allenburys’ Diet is a welcome substitute, as it
does not cause indigestion and flatulence.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
ti
V
I
D ET
is?:
“Things done .by 1 mires are never
done right.” “Golcryst,” the new aper-
ient made from Epsom Salts, .Senna,
Sarsaparilla, Dandelion,. Liquorice and
Ginger, “gets to business” .thoroughly.
j
There are no half measures about
“Golcryst.” Yet there is no .griping
nor weakening. “Golcryst” has no equal
as a Blood purifying and Rheumatism
curing medicine.
Everywhere 3d., 6d. and Is. sample
posted free by Proprietors,
rocKe, tompsitt & GO.,
t ' -i
Melbourne. f
‘THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
The American Ring Pulveriser
•
is designed for
Crushing and pulverising limestone, lime, coke, ore,
brickbats, sewer pipe, terracotta, glass, quartz, phos-
phate rock, sandstone, gravel, tile crockery, flint,
manganese ore, oyster shells, stove lining, shale and
all other refradlory materials.
Made in Six Sizes.
The various sizes are made with a view of meeting
the requirements of the small, medium and large
consumer.
Crushingand Pulverising to Fines.
Those materials of a refractory nature can be fed to
the machine in 3in. to 6in. cubes and smaller.
1
w
The several degrees of fines are secured by installing Grate Bars containing interstices of various widths. A measured
degree of fines is secured by running the materials over a given mesh screen, returning the rejections to the Pulveriser. The
coarser the grind the greater the tonnage capacity, while the finer the grind the smaller the tonnage capacity. The more
dry the material is made, the faster and finer the machine will pulverise.
Strength and Durability.
Careful observations, based upon adlual experience, have resulted in adding to and making extremely strong all parts
of the machine. Extended research and grinding tests year in and year out have brought about the use of Manganese Steel,
a metal that will best resist abrasion and withstand the greatest impadt.
We shall be pleased to show you these in operation in Sydney. Send for Catalogue.
— 7 Australian Representatives:
HAES & EGGERS LTD
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
THe Most Accurate *22 Calibre
REPEATING RIFLE IN THE WORLD!
STEVENS
VISIBLE LOADING No. 70.
vbnnb
Y6u see the cartridge go in the chamber.
You know when this rifle is loaded.
Will handle indiscriminately, without ad-
justment, fifteen ‘22 Short; twelve '22
Long, and twelve '22 Long Rifle R.F.
cartridges.
Your dealer can quote attractive prices.
Weight, 441 b.
Insist on Stevens.
Write for Rifle and Telescope catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms & Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia. [3
t#.(
©
A
©
Q
O
IS
N 0.2 MODEL RIFLE 22cal.
This perfect small bore rifle has already
become Australia’s favorite rifle for sporting
and range work. It has a full length barrel, fitted with latest sights
marked off to 200 yds., and will make a 2 in. group at 100 yds.
Takes down to a convenient length for cyclists, trappers, etc. B.S.A.
quality all through, and retails everywhere at 35/-.
Get on to this line; it is good. Write now for latest B.S.A. Catalog
of Rifles, Sights, etc. Post free from —
D. Y. RENNIE,
(Representing
8.5.A.C0- Ltd.)
Australian Bldgs., Melbourne
bvbvnbbvn
-THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE FIREARMS.*
THAT WILL GIVE LONG AND SATISFACTORY SERVICE.
vb b
WONG A
No. BUs6.—Our Special “ Wonga ” Single-barrel Gun. The newest and best gun on the market. Fitted
with automatic shell ejector, 12 or 16 gauge, 30in. special steel barrel, choke bored, top lever action,
works cither right or left. Weight, about 6jlb. Price 25/- Packing and postage, 2/6 extra.
n bn
No. HUso.—Winchester Model 1892, half-magazine, repeating rifle, with either 20in. or 24in. round or
octagon barrel. k Weight, 6£lb. to 71b. Magazine capacity, 7 cartridges for 25’20, 32, 38 and 44-calibre
cartridges. Price—Octagon Barrel, 65/- ; Round Barrel, 62/6. Packing and postage, 3/- extra.
Writ* for our Special Gun Catalogue, or ask us to quote
for any Gun or Rifle that you are interested in.
THE
VALLEY,
T. C. BEIRNE & CO., Brisbane.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6;
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anato my,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4 ; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 5/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4 ; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 ;
Superb Womanhood,
6/4 ; Macfadden’s Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete, 2/2.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous !
y»
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d.;
post free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic 2/6'.
Above prices include postage to any address.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Shoot the Cartridges that make Champions
Follow the lead of the holders of all important World’s Records
J. W. HESSIAN,
World’s Champion Rifle Shot.
WHY do
these
champion shots
of the world and
many o thers
who make re-
cord-breaking
scores year
after year, use
J. R. GRAHAM,
World's Champion Trap Shooter
PemingtonrUMC Cartridges?
Because this old reliable ammunition answers the
trigger unfailingly under all conditions:
Because it is accurate to a hair’s breadth:
Because every cartridge is like its brother in uni-
ANNIE OAKLEY,
Champion Lady Fancy Shot.
formity — no
missfires, no
erratic shots.
There is a Remington-
UMC Cartridge made
and guaranteed for
your rifle, revolver, pis-
tol or shotgun—of what-
ever make or calibre.
Remington-UMC the
universal ammunition.
REMINGTON ARMS
-UNION METALLIC
CARTRIDGE CO.
(M. Hartley Co.,
Export Agents)
299 Broadway, N. Y.
■ *
A. P. LANE.
World's Champion Pistol Shot.
EVERY MAN HIS OWN HORSE CLIPPER.
The •
Number One Hand Horse Clipping Machine
bnb
WITH ALL-STEEL FLEXIBLE SHAFT.
A machine of extreme simplicity, with which the
veriest tyro can clip a horse equal to any expert in
30 minutes.
The makers guarantee the driving mechanism
for 25 years. Each machine is fitted with six
feet of a new-style, oil-tempered, flexible shaft, and
it has the “Stewart” one-nut tension knife. The
device runs easily, and clips fast. It stands 39
inches high over all, and weighs 36 pounds boxed.
It can be boxed into small space, and readily
carried anywhere. The measurement of the box is
15in. x I2in. x Tin.
With Ball Bearings.
PRICE
40|-
Sole Agents for New South Wales & Queens-
land:
Holdsworth, Macpherson S Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Victoria: BRISCOE & CO.,
Ltd., MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for South and West Australia:
GEO. P. HARRIS, SCARFE & CO., Ltd.,
ADELAIDE & PERTH.
Underwear
/lade in
England
■Javfcu
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
bn
Works: Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is a |so
drawn to their paten
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for au
assorted Sample Box.


Nervous *\
Tired Out;
I Are you nervous, easily tired,
lack your usual vigor and strength?
Then your nerves must be weak,
your digestion must be poor, your
blood must be thin. You need a
strong nerve tonic. You need
Auer's
rn SOLD FOR
60 YEARS A
The only Sarsaparilla entirely
free from alcohol. Strengthens
the nerves, makes the blood rich,
improves the digestion. Ask
your doctor about this medicine.
If you think constipation is of
trifling consequence, just ask your
doctor. He will disabuse you of
that notion in short order. “Cor-
rect it at once! ” he will say.
Correct it with Ayer’s Pills. A
mild liver pill, all vegetable,
sugar-coated. Dose, only one
pill at bedtime
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO..
Lowell, Mass.. U- S. A.
ñb
BUY direct
FROM FACTORY.
B and we guarantee you a saving of at least
■ £lO. All goods sent freight free. 12 years’
B warranty. A postcard will bring you our
■ Catalogue. Established 1875.
™ SANDON & STEEDMAN.
76 Finsbury Pavement, London, England.
Apply for Free Catalogue to Mr. F.
Williams, Post Office, Parramatta, N.S.W.
WE SAVE YOU POUND
m
i
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
3';
B
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, e/o Sydney Agents.
mm
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
i, v ’
IK
t&MIIII'H' 'W
<((i 1 '
»lllll
FWOLFFASOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all the leading stores.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
W es ton —“ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
bn
COOD FOR
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BONN I NGTON’S'
1/6 & 2/6
RUNKENNESS Cured.
DAny lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.'N. S.W.
bn
bn
bn
“Salt-Cellars” and No Bust
do great harm to a woman’s appearance. You can increase
your vitality, build up your strength, develop your bust to
normal, and fill out the unsightly “salt-cellars.”
A thin woman is not necessarily plain; in fact, many thin
women are_ admittedly pretty, but the admission is always
qualified with—“but, poor thing, she is so terribly thin.”
No woman need stay thin and undeveloped. Dr. Falliere’s
Flesh-Food is a harmless, perfect flesh builder. It increases
the vitality and improves the general health. Some cases re-
port a gain in weight of over five pounds a week.
We publish an interesting book on the subject of attenua-
tion and development, and will send same and a Free Sample
Treatment to you free of charge, upon receipt of a 2d. stamp.
All communications private and confidential. Write or call
for full particulars.
FAELIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney (rear Equitable Life Building).
VARICOSE
VEINS
FREE BOOK
Let Us Cure You.
IF YOU have learned to look upon your Varicose Vein
Affliction as incurable, you will have to alter your point of
view. A few years ago,'but temporary relief, and then only
bv recourse to the surgeon’s knife, was all a sufferer from
this complaint could expect. Now the knife is obsolete.
THE VECSEY METHOD OF TREATMENT
offers not only permanent relief, but an absolute cure —even
in the very worst cases —without operations and without
laying up. Essentially a home treatment. Hundreds endorse
it.
We want you to learn all about our method. Send 2d. stamp
for free book, giving furl particulars. Written diagnosis or
Consultation FREE. Call if convenient.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney.
BILIOUS SUBJECTS
are generally victims of Constipation, that root evil of so many
terrible afflictions ; but they are “ bilious subjects” no longer when
they adopt the famous Cockle’s Antibilious Pills as the standing
household remedy, now in the
Second Century of World-Wide Renown.
Cockle’s Pills, which doctors of six generations have taught the world
to use and esteem, have no harsh, coercive action on the sluggish orgacc ;
they gently stimulate, soothingly strengthen and encourage, the natural
organic functions, at the same time thoroughly cleansing the system and
purifying the vital fluid. There is nothing to equal Cockle’s Pills for
this per'ect cleansing, reinvigorating, purifying combination of results.
It is marvellous.
FREE. TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W.,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
tse of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing uieleis
and cumberiome spring trusses? Do yon
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
onjy COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, hut ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina-et., Melbourne, Vic.
The'Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurie*.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
om imc« low
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history-—lhe book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Koad, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Talkers.
Mr. Smiff said Mr. Smiff denounced Mr.
Smiff opposed.— Any daily paper .
Shall the Nation never hustle —must we
always bear the bray
Of the shoddy statesmen Talking in a large,
uncertain way?
Shall their leaders never hearken to the call
for common sense—
Will they never cease to straddle up and
down the fiscal fence?
Is the Liberal a Tory of the old, depressing
type,
Since the hour is never fitting and the Time
is never Ripe?
Must Australia always travel in the old
Stagnation Dray?—
Hear the mile-long peroration
Of each Fuse—it licks creation
How such bladders stand inflation —
Shan’t we galvanize the Nation
Till they leave
off
TALKING
in a large,
Vague Way?
Joseph Cook, he rises sadly by the Parra-
matta stream,
Where he maunders and he Fuses like a
madman in a dream !
Next the platforms sit the Tories, tehrs of
unction ifi their eyes,
Whilst each Advocate of Slumber lifts his
ancient musty cries!
Near the doors the Labor Leaguers try to
howl the Talkers down,
But the Plain Man in the Middle finds the
outlook sad and brown !
He is sick and tired of Talkers who uplift a
foolish bray—
Like a cataract of butter
Rushing down each Fusion-gutter;
Hear the Fuses —how they splutter,
Whilst the Plain Australians mutter:
“Can’t they leave
off
TALKING
in a large,
Vague Way?”
See the junior Josephs travel up and down
the weary land,
Dumping language, splashing blither which
no man can understand !
lake the tops that children play with, hear
them hum with sleepy sound —
Are we kids or are we loonies, watching
Smiffs gyrate around?
See the monstrous Smiff procession—Fusion
tops that twirl and spin,
With a fearsome downward action of the
Everwagging Chin !
Smiffs that hum from West Australia to the
Gulf and Hobson’s Bav —
’Tis a Nation-puzzling riddle
Why they genuflect and twiddle
With the tuneless Fusion fiddle —
Says the Plain Man in the Middle:
“Smiff must leave
off
TALKING
in that large,
Vague Way!”
For the Plain Man in the Middle is the per-
son with the vote —
That’s a fact the Smiff procession hasn’t
sense enough to note!
So the Advocates of Slumber must continue
to subside
When each ballot-box is opened and the
votes begin to slide!
And although the ranks of Labor still con-
tain the dismal Hughes,
Sosh at least doth Talk less loudly than the
Prophets of the Fuse!
So the Plain Man grasps the Pencil —as he
votes I hear him pray:—
“Sink, O Lord, these Fusion caulkers —
Send a plague unon the Talkers;
I must rote for Soshward walkers,
Until all these Bogey-Hawkers
Make an end
of
TALKING
in a large,
Vague Way!”
[Grant Hervey, c/o Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer-
street, Melbourne.]
Ballade of Winterbrook.
The far blue Tiers are flecked with light,
Soft cloud-fleets journey to and fro.
Across the wheatlands wide and white
The harvest teams are plodding slow.
The face of twenty years ago
Looks back to me where’er I look.
O ! Spectre of forgotten woe —
Sad, sullen soul of Winterbrook !
By Bishopsbourne a trailing flight
Against the burnished after-glow,
A nesting phalanx out from sight
Sails sunward like a sable bow,
And like a deathbell comes the low
Far calling of a homing rook—
O! Spectre of forgotten woe.
Sad, sullen soul of Winterbrook !
When morning plovers seek the height,
And windy poplars bend and blow,
The dark-boughed sycamore at night
Still frets a casement that I know.
The old fierce fires that seared me so
Are cold lines written in a book —
O ! Spectre of forgotten woe.
Sad, sullen soul of Winterbrook !
Envoy
Brave, brittle life and passing show,
What gave the gods for faiths they took?
O ! Spectre of forgotten woe,
Sad, sullen soul of Winterbrook!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


Choice Wardrobes
■
i
are stocked in Hundreds of different
and attractive designs by us. Their
sound quality and tasteful appear-
ance recommend them strongly to cus-
tomers of discernment and refinement.
This HANDSOME WARDROBE is
made of SOLID OAK, and has
large bevelled mirror, one large
deep drawer and all hanging space
inside. It is superbly finished,
and the cost is only
SEND FOR FURNISHING ESTIMATES
AND CATALOGUES.
DINNEFORD'S/
Magnesia
DINNEFORD'S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see that
“Dinneford &Co.”
is on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn. Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
rz
c£C7
rn
PO
-a
oj L
n
Ciu
n
rn
at-
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
\ • V V - v -• :
ALWAYS DISTINCTIVE and the most economical of the Homebuilder’s
Expenses. v .*
'* t ' ■ : : " ... . ; : -
Economical to buy, easily fixed and cheaply freighted (to cover a given
area the freight charge is one-third that on wood).
No repairs ever needed. Easily cleaned with a damp cloth.
Every consideration—Attractiveness, Service, Sanitation, Economy urge
?: their use.
WUNDERLICH MATERIALS Bear this Registered
TRADE MARK.
xfcßX/
COUPON.
Please send Catalogue , post free .
Mr.
8.15. M.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston & New Zealand.
A Thoroughly Reliable
Waterproof Coat.
The PERDRIAU
MACINTOSH,
AS ILLUSTRATED,
351- Carriage Paid.
It is to your advantage to buy a coat that
will give satisfaction and wear —correct
style, best of materials, guaranteed as to
workmanship and quality, also to be abso-
lutely waterproof and unaffected by extremes
of climate.
Particulars of all wet weather clothing,
rubber footwear, rugs, etc., will be found in
our No. 30 List. Post Free on request.
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
And 105 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
\ if I
-r
r j
N
lie, sk
fe? jgf •' 4V
ip
y
✓5-
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most; successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for ‘ii years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Riohardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.S.A.
"RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
THE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
m
COMMER LORRY—3-TON CAPACITY.
“COMMER” Motor Lorries
Capacity : 1 Ton to 7 Tons.
Time was when the “Commer” Motor Lorry was an “innovation.” Time
was when a few enterprising commercial “experimentalists” each installed a
“Commer,” and the balance of the business-world watched the new depar-
ture with interest.
Time passed—and established the fact that what had looked like a daring
and costly experiment had proved the finest form of business economy. The
“Commer”—that was an “innovation” —has become
An Absolute Business Necessity.
By increasing the radius of your business the “Commer” adds to your list
of customers. Its speed and capacity mean that you can reach and handle
business that formerly might have needed the establishment of a local branch.
The “Commer” Lorry deserves the earliest and fullest investigation by
the merchant or the carrier. It means the expediting of business, the con-
venience of the owner, and the satisfaction of the customer.
Carrying capacity, 1 ton to 7 tons. Engine, 4 cylinders, cast in pairs;
Bosch high tension magneto; gear driven, also coil and accumulator; chain
drive with chain cases; automatic lubrication ; efficient radiator; three, four
and five speeds forward and one reverse ; direct drive on top gears always
in mesh with dog clutch drive ; foot brake on driver between gear box and
differential, operated by pedal on foot board ; side hand brakes, operated on
drum of rear wheels; internal expanding positively taken on and off (on
larger models a special spring buffer drive is fitted between differential and
gear box, the latter being of the “fool-proof” type) ; complete set of tools,
ball bearings throughout.
Any Type of Body Fitted.
Full particulars sent post free on request. Any trial arranged.
DALGETY ®. CO. Ltd.
Motor Garage : 136=138 Phillip St., Sydney.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE:
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Bellevllle, Napier, Buick, Lacre Lorries
and Halley Lorries.
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE:
Agents for Daimler, Austin, Delaunay-
Belleville, F.N., Cutting, Halley Lorries
and Lacre Lorries.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission bv Post as a Newspaper.
Von. .14.—N0. 1735.
THURSDAY. MAY 15. 1913.
Prick tin.
THE FIREARMS SCARE.
The granting of such powers [to the Commonwealth] would be fatal to the people of Australia.
—State Rights paper vaguely—or words to that effect.
FRIEND-OF-THE-NUT-ROUND-TH E-CORNER: “Listen to me, Mister, I’m telling yer this for yer own benefit. There’s
too many 'orrid accidents. Don’t you have nothing to do with such a dangerous wepping!”
[Drawn by NORMAN LINDSAY, Faulconbridge , Blue Mountains, N.S.W.]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
i.eod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum . . .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly . . . . . . 013 6
Quarterly. . . . .. .. 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to. you every iveek for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methodsof address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded with-
out stamps for return it will be understood that the
copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Personal
applications for return of MS. cannot receive atten-
tion. The Bulletin desires, further, those sending
MS. to distinctly understand that it is not respon-
sible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash, of
sufficient merit and interest and adapted for direct
reproduction, or any interesting photograph illus-
trative of a current event, will be paid for same on
acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea, but
unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/41 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, 8.C.; S. G.
Ilarlin, 1/1/5 Granville Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. —Childs News Agency, corner Fifth and D
Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Golden Gate News Co., 789
Market Street. San Francisco: Quaker News Co.,
Philadelphia, U.S.A. ; Queen City News Co., Randolph
and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co., and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
J//6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size, 6%in.
x 11/in.. and gelatine transparencies, will be forwarded
on application. Larger metal plates can be supplied if
desired.
Postage Rates.
Single Copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands. 10oz.. id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route, 16oz. Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise, Boz. Id., and Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 12oz. Sd.; elsewhere, 1/oz. Id.,
and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1913.
THE DARWIN STRIKE AND OTHER
MATTERS.
Up in Australia’s wonderful North, where
you can climb on an ant-heap, and from that
elevation see the equator in the middle dis-
tance and Hong Kong just beyond, the
Fisher Government administers a vast Fed-
eral property on casual principles. It com-
menced its career in the Territory with a
scheme of public land ownership which con-
served the public interest so carefully that
the Commonwealth threatened to be a harder
landlord than Fat dares to be even in his
Fattest moments; and when sitting on the
head of his Leanest tenant. The scheme had
such a tremendous eye on the nation’s right
to the unearned increment that the miser-
able lessee, when all his chances were taken
into account, seemed liable to have his rent
revised almost once a week, or perhaps
oftener. The scheme perished amid general
mirth. Then the Territory was supplied
with an eminent veterinary authority as a
sort of Governor. It was furnished with
many costly officials and all the frill and
cocked hat of a miniature court. Finally, it
acquired a strike, in the course of which the
Director of Lands (salary £B5O a year) was
called out by his union and put on picket
duty outside Government House, thereby
dragging the cocked hat in the mud and ex-
posing the frill to the contempt of a scarce
but ribald populace. The strikers demanded
a minimum of £4 a week (the working week
to be 44 hours) for casual and unskilled
labor, and based their claim on the lone-
someness and remoteness and inaccessibility
of the place, its vast distance by sea from
the present great centres of population, and
the alleged consequent high cost of living.
They held a strong position, for they were
mostly men from the South —that compara-
tively well-peopled section of Australia being
the place that has most men to spare for
service on the Edge—and as the South is
several weeks away from the North per
steamer their places couldn’t he readily
filled. The little railway was held up, and
shipping business became moderately dead.
Proposals for arbitration were absolutely re-
jected. Meanwhile the Government sat down
and held its aching head between both feet
while it considered how much its railway ex-
tension would cost if the cheapest form of
labor had to be bought for nearly Is. lOd.
per hour, and what the prospects of land
settlement amounted to if fencing and tank-
sinking ran to the same figure.
So far as wages go the claims of the
unions up Port Darwin way are not neces-
sarily so outrageous as the Tory press
imagines. Isolation has to be paid for. Lone-
someness is expensive. Immense distances
cost something per mile. When men and
material are dragged round half a continent
by Private Enterprise ships, freight has to
be considered. A trades union, just like an
Oil Trust, has a tendency to put up its prices
when it holds something like a monopoly,
and the unions at Darwin have a very re-
spectable monopoly, simply because Sydney
and Melbourne and Adelaide are so far
away. But the lonesomeness and the isola-
tion and much of the great distances are
superfluous. The business which the Aus-
tralian Government has on hand is to con-
nect the Territory by railway with the more
settled parts of Australia, and thus give
settlement a chance. If the railway con-
struction started from Oodnadatta (S.A.)
and went northward, instead of going from
Pine Creek (N.T.) southward, the existing
railway could bring workers and supplies to
the scene of action inside two days, and
there ought to be abundance of both. This
would mean starting the settlement of the
Territory at the south end instead of the
north end, but that would be no drawback —
in fact it would be a conspicuous advantage.
Building from the north, it would require
1135 miles of new line to connect any part
of the Territory with Brisbane, and even
then it would only be connected by the long
devious coastal route via Rockhampton. To
connect any Dart of the Territory with Bris-
bane in anything like a direct fashion would
involve the building of 1545 miles of new
line. (These distances are taken from the
map issued in 1909 by the advocates of the
eastern deviation.) To connect any part of
the Territory with Adelaide by building from
the north would involve the construction of
1063 miles of line. (This estimate of dis-
tance is based on the survey made by the
S.A. Government when it called tenders in
1902 for the completion of the great trans-
continental railway by Private Enterprise.)
The distances are very long and must involve
years of labor. Yet no one knows how many
years we have to spare before the enemy
comes out of Asia to argue the point about
the ownership of the less protected parts of
tropical Australia. On the other hand, the
construction of 150 miles of railway from
Oodnadatta (S.A.) would connect the first
outlying section of the Territory with the
big cities of the South. It would make a be-
ginning of the work of breaking up the isola-
tion of the great Federal province. And it
would start settlement at the cold weather
end of the Territory. At that end not even
the maddest Tory who ever wore a plug hat
in a lunatic asylum dares to assert that “the
white man can’t live.”
Every mile of line built into the Territory
from the south means, while the line is still
incomplete, another mile of country which
the armed population of the South can help
to defend against Asiatic invasion. Every
mile of line built from the north means,
while the line is incomplete, another mile of
country which is laid open to any invader
who has the luck to secure Port Darwin and
the resources there and thereabouts. If the
trouble comes when there is still a gap of
100 miles in the railway which is to connect
the North with the places to which it must
look for assistance till it grows a big popu-
lation of its own, the fate of the North may
depend on where that gap is. If it lies be-
tween the southern border of the Territory
and Oodnadatta, then everything down to
Charlotte Waters will become Japanese—or
whatever other adjective expresses the nation-
ality of the invader —before an Australian
army, coming on the overland track, can
strike a blow in defence. That is to say,
the invader will have been carefully pro-
vided by Australia with facilities for occu-
pying over 500,000 square miles of our heri-
tage, and 1000 linear miles of this country
from north to south will have been deliber-
ately put into his hands. If the gap in the
uncompleted line lies in the North, say be-
tween Pine Creek and Daly Waters, then
everything will belong to Australia almost
up to the northern coast, and the invader
will have only 145 miles of line to help him
in his invasion. Which means that he will
be able to temporarily annex, with compara-
tive ease, 145 linear miles of this country
instead of 1000. The difference is great
enough to be worth consideration, quite
apart from the facts that railway construc-
tion from the south instead of the north
means more labor, cheaper labor, cheaper
supplies, earlier connection of the Territory
with the big cities, and other advantages.
* * * *
But, unhappily, there is always the vote
—the mean, sordid vote —to be considered.
If the great essential railway is started
from the south it must begin either from
Bourke or Wentworth, and thus antagonise
the support of S.A. and Westralia, or from
Oodnadatta, and thus raise a horde of
enemies in N.S.W. and Queensland. Either
way the Ministry may lose its job. On the
other hand, a certain fuss and activity, a
vast appointing of more or less useless offi-
cials, a great drafting of regulations, an
ocean of cocked hat and a pyramid of frill,
and even a scrap of isolated and enorm-
ously costly railway building may go on at
the northern end of things without com-
mitting the Ftsher Ministry to the rejec-
tion of either route, and thus that
Ministry may, for some _ years, avoid
losing votes and imperilling its job.
Certainly Australia may, in the end,
be ruined by the failure to provide for its
defence; but then Australia is neither a
vote nor a job. Perhaps it was for solid
vote-and-job reason that the Prime Minis-
ter’s manifesto, four columns long, con-
tained only about ten lines of allusion to the
question on which the very existence of this
nation depends, and even that small, sawn-
off remark or observation was non-commit-
tal. The vote may be a sordid sort of thing,
but the politician who doesn’t get it finds
a dreadful hole in his income and a break-
age in his dignity.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
A CHOICE OF TWO PROPHYLACTICS.
First and foremost emerges the fact that Mr.
Fisher is on the side of prohibitive Protection. It
is well known that the trusts in the United States
have only been made possible through the high Pro-
tection tariff; and yet the Prime Minister and Mr.
Hughes, after all their hypocritical wailing about
combines and monopolies, are preparing the ground
in Australia for the free and full development of
such corporations.—Joseph Cook.
Trusts were the creature of America, and had
abused the tariff there to rob the people. The remedy
existed here, and if an industry abused the tariff
the duty protecting such an industry should be re-
moved, and outside competition would then kill the
trust. (Cheers.) —C. G. Wade.
In America a few men enjoying command of mil-
lions of pounds leave millions of men only living on
sufferance. But what does Labor propose to do about
it in this country ? The alleged monopoly-breakers
are ready' to feed monopoly fatter through the tariff.
- —•, Sydney Telegraph (5/5/’l3).
Who really believes, nowadays, that trusts
are the “creatures of the tariffs”? The
ancient gag has been musty and discredited
for the past ten years. Britain has been
afflicted with Freetrade for generations.
“The Encyclopaedia of Industrialism” —a
standard work published last year by
Thomas Nelson & Sons, and compiled by
unbiassed and recognised experts—mentions
some of the trusts that have grown up
there pf late without the fattening of any
tariff.
Some extracts :
Associations are to be found now in every branch
of British industry except textiles, notably in iron
and steel, coal, grain-milling, baking, soap, and in
some chemical trades. Particularly noteworthy are
the steel associations in Scotland and the North of
England, which agreed in 1905 to stop mutual com-
petition and the dumping of plates and angles in the
neutral markets of Belfast. In November, 1911, 22
steel makers in Scotland, the midlands and the
North-East of England issued circulars to their cus-
tomers, announcing that they would allow rebates of
ss. a ton on plates, angles, shapes and sections to
all consumers who, during three months, had bought
no material except from the signatories tof the cir-
culars. This move was directed primarily against
foreign steel makers, but secondarily against non-
associated British firms.
In the retail trades there are agreements between
retail traders and makers or wholesalers, binding
retailers only to sell at fixed prices. The strongest
organisation is the Proprietary Articles Trade Asso-
ciation, formed in 1896, among chemists and drug-
gists. Here all the owners of proprietary articles
bound themselves to boycott any shopkeeper
who cut the price of any one article in (the
protected list. In 1906 215 firms had their articles
in the list, and the movement was eminently suc-
cessful. It has spread into the grocery, stationery,
photographic, saddlery and games’ trades.
The shipning industry is governed by conferences,
which regulate rates of freights for all routes where
liners are regularly employed. Shippers are bound
to the conference firms by a system of rebates, which
are retained by the shipowners for six months or
more, and are forfeited if within that period any
goods are shipped by independent vessels. Strenuous
action has been frequently .proposed, and in 1911 the
South African Government refused to give mail con-
tracts to companies in the “South African Shipping
Ring.” ;
In 1907 there were 25 firms in the iron apd steel
amalgamation with an aggregate capital Of nearly
£50,000.000. Sewing thread is dominated by J.
and P. Coats, Ltd. (capital £11,000,01)0), and the
English Cotton Co. ( £3,000,000), which are allied ;
fine cotton spinning by the Fine Cotton Sninners
Association ( £7,250,000) ; calico printing, by the
Calico Printers’ Association ( £8:250,000) ; and the
United Turkey Red Co. ( £1,500,000) ; dyeing by the
Bradford Dyers’ Association ( £4.800,000) ; the Brit-
ish Cotton and Wool Dyers Association ( £1,900,000) ;
and some minor combinations. The Wallpaper Manu-
facturers’ Ltd. 11900, £4,200,000) covers 98 per
cent, of the British wallpaper trade. The Associated
Portland Cement Manufacturers (1900. £7,375,000)
covered 80 per cent, of the output of the Thames and
Medway; and late in 1911 an allied combine was
formed to embrace the outstanding works. The
tobacco trade is dominated by the Imperial Tobacco
Co. ( £14,500,000). The grain-whisky, fire-clay,
bath-stone, seed-oils, soan and beer trades are all
dominated by amalgamations, while amalgamations
in the tube industry and the Scotch malleable iron
trade were arranged in 1912. and proposals for the
cassation of competition in the marine engineering
trade have been under discussion.
* * * *
What imbecility it is, in face of such evi-
dence, to talk of Freetrade as a remedy for
trusts! Australia certainly has one useful
lesson to learn from Britain in the
matter of dealing with injurious trusts;
but it is never cited by Liberals here,
since it would destroy the very argu-
ments on which they are relying to de-
feat the Referenda. The remedy is simply
adequate legislative control. The United
Kingdom is free from most of the Trust un-
pleasantnesses under which America groans,
for the same reason that a house in a popu-
lous street, with an unfed bloodhound in the
garden and a police-station nearby, suffers
less from burglaries than a dogless mansion
in a remote and lonely suburb. The
British Parliament, ever since the Act
of Union, wields that drastic power
over the trade and commence of the United
Kingdom which the Australian Government
is seeking in the Commonwealth to-day.
It has as much legal right to meddle want-
only with a business in Inverness ol Belfast
as it has to legislate in regard to the trade
of the port of London. Mr. Wade, expatia-
ting on the horrors that may befall Australia
if the Trade and Commerce clause amend-
ment is carried, wrote the other week :
All the shopkeepers and tradesmen engaged in sup-
nlying the necessaries of daily life will be governed
by Commonwealth laws. Auctioneers, chemists, and
second-hand dealers, gold-buyers, milk and dairy pro-
ducers, fish markets —there is little indeed in all
the transactions which make up the daily life of
the business man which will not be controlled by
administration from Melbourne.
For a hundred years the daily trans-
actions which make up the life of every busi-
ness man in Galway or Skye might have
been controlled in detail from Westminster.
There has been no attempt at anything of
the sort, for the simple reason tha' Britain
has never yet elected a Parliament of luna-
tics. It is possible to get a fair estimate of
the risk Australia will be taking if it follows
the examnle of the United Kingdom in the
matter of dowering its National Parliament
with full trade and commerce powers l
asking Sol Green, Hackett, or any otW
reliable bookmaker what odds he will l,''
against the double event of the electors r
turning a majority of maniacs to both
Representatives and the Senate, and of th
Mother Country simultaneously sending !
a Governor-General who is hopelessly 0 t
of his mind. Unless both these calamities
occur at the same time, reasonable local
business men and reasonable local trusts will
be as safe from fractious interference
though they were doing business in England
or France or Germany—in all of which
countries trusts are, as Bagehot puts it
“come-at-able” by the central Parliaments’
The advantage of taking the risk which
Liberalism is shuddering at just now—even
as it shuddered at Protection, compulsory
service, a local navy, and a dozen other
bogus menaces —will be to ensure the proper
policing of our combines, present and pros
pective. If all business associations origin-
ated in Paradise and were run exclusively
by the better class of archangels, the claim
for immunity from any sort of effective con-
trol —which, in its essence, is the claim that
Liberalism is making on their behalf in the
present campaign—would possess some show
of reason. Since most of them are notoriously
no better than the rest of us, the claim is
really only another manifestation of the fine
old sport of insulting the popular intelli-
gence.
[Written, not “after consultation,’’ as the Mel-
bourne Argus nuts it. but without any consultation
because the staff can be fully trusted, by John Bf.de
Halley, The Bulletin Office. Sydney.)
TWADDELL ON NOTES, ALSO SOME
NOTES ON TWADDELL.
Once or twice (which isn’t very often) there
was a N.S.W. Treasurer named Twaddell.
He is almost forgotten now, but nothing that
is material wholly perishes, and in evidence
thereof Twaddell appeared, the other day,
in nearly a column and a half of Sydney
Telegraph on the subject of the Federal
Government note issue. The Bulletin
has often expressed the opinion that the
Federal note issue is, to a great extent, a
wasted opportunity. If it had been enacted,
as in Canada, that the banks must hold at
least 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in
Government paper, and must pay cheques,
when required, in Government paper up to
a certain limit, the market for Australia’s
stiff and crinkly money would be enormously
increased, and there would be much less
chance of it coming back suddenly on the
Treasury, accompanied by a demand for
coin. And if it was laid down by cast-iron
and boiler metal statute that the gold re-
ceived in exchange for Federal notes should
(excepting the harmless necessary reserve)
be invested in the purchase of State securi-
ties, and that the interest on these State
securities should be invested in the purchase
of more State securities, and that the pro-
cess of accumulation by compound interest
should be continued till the Commonwealth
owned all the State securities in existence,
and that the State securities should then be
burned in one great act by the common hang-
man and Australia’s debt thus obliterated
at no cost to the community the position of
the Federal note issue would be so magnifi-
cent that words would fail to express it. In
fact, it would be so solid that the pyramids
of Egypt would be a broken reed by com-
parison.
But these were not the points which
Twaddell, occasionally Treasurer of N.S.W.,
took up. His position was that there have been
many Government note issues which have
come to grief and gone insolvent, wherefore
all Government note issues must do the same
- —just as it might be argued that because
many people have been hanged all the rest
will go the same airy hempen road. He in-
stanced. in his fury, the depreciation of the
United States “greenbacks” during the un-
civil war, though he didn’t mention that these
paper securities were ultimately redeemed
at their full value. Also, he quoted the wild
cat States of Alabama, Mississippi, Florida,
Arkansas, Illinois and Tennessee. Likewise
he dragged in John Law, the Austrian
Government of the Napoleonic period, and
the cases of Russia, Italy and Roumania,
to show that the issue of Government paper
always leads down a steep glass slope to
chaos and disruption. Thus spoke Twad-
dell in his haste, which is also what David
spoke in when he said what he was sorry
for afterwards :
The failures and disasters of other nations serve
as beacon-lights to warn us of dangers when at-
tempting to navigate to us unknown political seas.
Not so with Mr. Fisher and his followers, who
disdain to profit by the experience of the nations
abroad.
Like every Government that has issued paper
money in the past, Mr. Fisher's set out, no doubt
with the best intentions, not to go beyond a certain
limit, and to have certain safeguards ; but, like every
Government which had adopted this method of finan-
ing, Mr. Fisher’s soon showed a disposition to strain
the safeguards provided. When it passed the original
Act it provided that one-fourth the note issue up to
seven milliob pounds must be backed by gold held
in the Treasury, and that every note issued over
seven millions up to 10 millions should be backed
by a sovereign. This safeguard did not last long,
the taste for cheap money soon grows. In less than
12 months the Act was altered, and 10 million notes
can now be issued, and the Government is only
bound to hold two million five hundred thousand
pounds in gold to provide for their redemption, me
history of Governments issuing paper money an
making it a legal tender shows that it has been a
exception to the rule to find a Government that a
not gone to excess and brought ruin on its pe°P _
So terrible have been the evils and so dangerous
practice of Governments issuing paper money to P .
their way, that nearly every Government has a
doned the practice and transferred the issue ot n
to banks away from political control. „
A case of some sort can, of course, be
made in this fashion against ewrything
cept Heavep—and, perhaps, the Milky way
and the Dog-star. Thus there are very, very
few cases in which food and drink have
used without being more or less a h u sea. -
there have been few countries probabi.
countries at all—which have gone ia
private banking without terrible a
arising. In 1814. 240 private banks sus
pended in England, and in 183 1 every 1
vate bank in the United States burs •
both cases it often happened that a t
load of private bank notes would haid ■
grease for the barrow-wheel. And
State paper and State aid there mig £
been N.S.W. private bank notes for saw
the lb. in the dark days of 1893. 1 hei
far more dead private, banks than 1
and far more dead private banks th , , e( j
State ones. The world could be upholster


to a very considerable extent with depreciated
private bank notes —including even those of
the Bank of England in the days when that
institution’s money wasn’t worth much over
10s. in the £. Assuredly Government paper
money has often been a failure, but often
there would have been a worse failure with-
out it. Thus Austria financed its life-and-
death struggle against Napoleon mostly by
the issue of irredeemable paper money.
There was nothing else to finance with in
that time of incredible stress, for all the
cash then known to exist on earth—and it
wasn’t much—couldn’t be circulated fast
enough in those ox-waggon days to cover
one-tenth of the war loans that were in
demand. During the campaign that ended
at Leipsic all the available gold coin in
Europe would probably have run the show
for about a month, for Australia and Maori-
land and Alaska and South Africa and Cali-
fornia and Colorado weren’t turning out
their gold then, and sovereigns were about
as numerous as hen’s teeth. Naturally there
was depreciation in the paper currency of
Austria, and bankruptcy, and a composi-
tion in which the note holders finished up
with something like 2d. in the £. But
though the suffering was bad enough at the
moment Austria was saved, and it had paid
most of the bill for its years of war in cash,
instead of dragging the corpse of an im-
possible debt at its heels for centuries. The
system was better than the previous one, ac-
cording to which war contributions were
raised by extracting Jews’ teeth, or by put-
ting the feet of citizens in the fire in order to
find out if they had any hidden wealth. The
bankruptcy of the State note issue was
terrible, but at least there was a great
national service to show r on the other side of
the ledger. The simultaneous smash of 240
private note-issuing banks in England had
no per contra save a wild dead cat.
The alternative to Government notes,
which may possibly become worth about 2d.
in the £ when the country is fighting for its
life against an outsize in the way of enemies,
and the alternative to private bank notes,
which often make good shaving paper when,
in one small country, 240 private banks blow
un in a single year, is obviously the placing
of trade on a coin basis. But the cost of re-
placing worn coin is very serious. And Gov-
ernment coin is liable to depreciation as well
as Government paper —if it is run by the
wrong kind of Government, or even if it is
run by an honest Government which gets
bogged among the by-ways of misfortune.
The wretchedly debased special coinage
which the Protestant Government of Eng-
land inflicted on Ireland in Elizabeth’s
time ruined Irish trade; the idea was that
the Irishman should have such bad coin
that he couldn’t trade with it except in his
own burg, and the Englishman, with fairly
decent coin, would thus annex the foreign
commerce of the island. The degraded
“bob” of old England is down to such a
point that it contains only about 4d. worth
of metal. The Mexican dollar, though it
represents better value in metal than any
other silver coin on earth, has fallen to
about half its old value. The Indian rupee,
though it was and is an official British coin,
gradually slumped in value to the extent of
50 per cent., and now it is only kept fairly
steady at a grossly inflated valuation be-
cause it is backed by a small amount of
emld and a large issue of Government paper.
Even the sovereign refuses to keep firm, and
its value in wheat or Mexican dollars or
any other commodity this year is liable to
show any sort of wild discrepancy as com-
pared with its value last year. The moral
is that everything, including Government
paper money, may be turned into a disaster
by bad administration. Thus Macedonia
went to ruin through having an efficient
army which a flashy sovereign wasted in
wild foreign exploits. And Poland perished
through having no army at all. If every-
thing, like the Government note issue, is
abolished because it may be badly directed
bv bad rulers, then there will be nothing
left- —not even Twaddell.
* * * *
The statement of the feckless politician
who was once Treasurer of N.S.W., that
there is a tendency all the world over to
abandon the issue of Government paper
money and hand this branch of finance over
to private banks, will hardly bear inspec-
tion. Most of the population of the British
Empire uses Government paper. That form
■if currency exists in Ceylon. India, the
Malav States, the Straits Settlements, Bri-
tish East Africa, the Zanzibar Protectorate,
Mauritius. Canada, the Falkland Islands,
British Honduras, Australia and Tasmania.
Outside the Empire it is the fashion in the
United States. Russia. Switzerland and
many other countries. The use of Govern-
ment paper is increasing, and the number
of countries that use it is increasing. An
obvious reason is that it has grown much
less casual and squalid than it used to be,
having probably taken a lesson from the
240 private banks that broke in England in
1814, and the all-round breakage of U.S.
Private Enterprise in 1887. Also, the ten-
dency towards State banking and State
insurance and such things is spreading.
Even Conservative Britain owns its State
Savings Bank, its State life assurance sys-
tem, and its State Public Trustee. There-
fore it may be that the lamentation of
Twaddell is a shade too pessimistic. The
world may not be quite so dead as he thinks.
[James Edmond. The Bulletin Office, Svdnev. 1
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Mono-Kail.
Australia is waiting, just as it was last
week and last year, to learn whether the
Fisher Ministry will get out of its old
Tory rut and make some kind of investiga-
tion of the Brennan mono-rail before it
spends too many- millions of Australia’s
money on what may possibly prove to be an
antiquated two-rail contraption. It is
claimed for the mono-rail that the line can
be laid for about £lOOO per mile, partly
because there is only one rail to be laid, and
partly because the one-rail train can tacklp
such steep grades and sharp curves that the
great bulk of the ordinary cutting and tun-
nelling is eliminated. It is also claimed that
it can travel at least twice as fast as the
fastest existing train—ii*. fact, that it would
make the crossing of Australia in a day by
no means impossible. These claims; rest on
the evidence- of experiments made in the
presence oi capable engineers, and nothing
lias happened to disprove them. The only
visible reason why the Australian Govern-
ment doesn’t at least investigate the possi-
bilities of the mono-rail is to be found in the
dull, wooden obstinacy of a rather weak
Prime Minister, who seems to feel bound to
go on being wrong at any price when he has
once started wrong, lest by becoming right
he should seem to yield to outside pressure,
and thus sacrifice his reputation for boiler-
metal firmness. Any small question about
Bill’s twopence of “dirt money” will com-
mand Fisher’s earnest attention if it can,
by any possibility, be dragged inside the
Federal jurisdiction. But as regards a mat-
ter which may mean the saving within a
comparatively few years of £100,000,000 or
more of Australian money, it is imnossible to
get Andrew of Queensland to make even a
remark. He will neither say “yes” nor
“no” ; in fact, he won’t even acknowledge
that he heard anybody calling in his ear and
asking him to say one thing or the other. If
the mono-rail is what it is alleged to be—and
no one has proved that it isn’t—it would
solve the whole vexed question of diverse
railway gauges in one act. Also, it would
make railway building so much cheaper that
Australia could get to work with three trans-
continental lines simultaneously—a southern
railway from east to west, a northern one
from east to west, and a midland one from
north to south. A matter of that size—one
which might decide the whole future of Aus-
tralia in time of war —would surely justify
the Government in tearing at least a shred
of investigation off the yast fabric of mental
torror. Certainly Fisher, after his long,
obstinate silence, and his long adherence to
the old ideas, can’t acknowledge at this late
hour that he has even heard of Brennan’s
invention without appearing as a man who
has been hustled into action, «ind that might
damage his idea of his dignity. But even
the whole dignity that one man or one Min-
istry can hold wdthout splitting down the
back may be bought too dear.
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Gag.
J. Garland, M.L.C., of N. S. Wales, was re-
ported last week as follows :
The first measure to be repealed if the Liberals
were returned would be the Gag Act.
One would have thought that the repeal of
such Socialistic measures as the Land Tax,
and the Maternity Allowance Act, the aboli-
tion of the Australian note issue, and the
overthrow of the Commonwealth Bank, would
have all come before the Gag Act in order
of Liberal importance. As a matter of fact
the Gag Act, regarded as a working Menace,
has proved about the feeblest Horror on
record. A month ago every Liberal paper
in the land was denouncing it as the most
infamous thing in its line, since the davs of
Wilkes (John, not Bill). It was
claimed that, as a result of it, the papers
would be silenced at the very time that the
public most needed their counsel. There was
a mild panic among the folks who rely for
their political ideas on the Liberal press.
The writs were issued. The strike against
the new law began. It didn't last a week.
At the present time the Age is publishing its
leaders on Federal politics with the names
of the w r hole of the leader-writing staff below
them; the Argus is doing likewise, with the
name of one man appended, and the informa-
tion that he has accomplished the deed “after
consultation” ; Sydney Telegraph is print-
ing the customary old leaders, the only differ-
ences being that they are signed, and that
they are appearing in the news columns,
instead of adjacent to the births, marriages
and deaths notices ; and the S. M. Herald
is relying on signed contributions by C. G.
Wade and other lawyers. In short, the Gag
Act has gagged nobody. When one has men-
tioned that this Act is a futile bit of legis-
lation, one has really said all that there is to
be said in its disfavor. For one of the leaders
of Liberalism to class it as the prime cal-
amity of the Fisher Administration, the
thing that must be abolished without a
second’s needless delay, suggests powerfully
that the Cook party no more believes in the
alleged wicked folly of the famous 83 Acts
passed by the Laborites than the majority
of the community does.
[John Bede Dalley, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The Disingenuousness of Mr. Cook.
From a recent daily paper report of one of
Joseph Cook’s political meetings:—
Mr. Cook: “What is that noise over there? I am
beginning to think that Mr. Hughes’s statement
about pigs increasing is correct. (Laughter.) Mr.
Fisher says and Mr. Hughes says that ours -is the
worst Constitution in the world.” He quoted various
authorities on the subject of Constitutions, instanc-
ing Mr. Bryce, Mr. Chamberlain, Mr. Asquith and
others, all of whom had spoken eulogistically of the
Australian Constitution, and said: “ Put those auth-
orities on one side of the scale —those in favor of
leaving the Constitution as it is—and on the other
side the others. You can pay your money and take
your choice.
The basic dishonesty of dragging Messrs.
Bryce, Chamberlain, Asquith and the
rest into Australia’s present Constitutional
controversy lies in the fact that their
opinions are 13 years old. The names
quoted are great ones, yet their owners have
probably re-adjusted their views in a thou-
sand different directions since they voiced
the opinions that are now being cited as
arguments against the Referenda proposals.
Thirteen years ago they thought highly, in
all likelihood, of horse-drawn vehicles. Is
that to say that to-day they are opposed to
motors? Thirteen years ago, if they had
visited Australia, they would have come
here on a ship which modern travellers
would spurn. They would have been as
satisfied, probably, as travellers ever are;
but that does not mean that, at this time
of day, they would prefer the old vessels to
modern liners. About the same time as the
British statesmen mentioned by the leader
of Liberalism were eulogising our Constitu-
tion Lord Haldane, the present Lord Chan-
cellor of Britain, said of it in the House of
Commons: —
W r hat you have here is nothing akin to the Con-
stitution of the United States, except in its most
superficial features. It is reallv a reproduction in
Australia of the British Constitution upon a large and
noble scale.
And that was precisely the opinion at that
time not only of prominent Englishmen, but
also of Deakin, Griffith, Glynn, Quick
and the rest of the distinguished authorities
who were responsible for the founding of
the Commonwealth. No one was more
staggered than they were when tests made
in the crucible of the Courts showed that
our Constitution in no respect resembled
that of England, and in many was charac-
terised by the worst features of that of the
United States. The legislation passed in
recent years by the Australian Parliament,
and subsequently invalidated by the High
Court, is the best proof of the correctness
of this assertion. Starting out on the
assumption that, to again quote Lord Hal-
dane, ours was “a reproduction of the Bri-
tish Constitution upon a large and noble
scale,” a Deakin Administration proceeded
to put on the Statute Book Acts which
would be as well within the province of the
British Parliament as the Insurance Act
or the Education Act was. They then be-
gan to learn for the first time —and, inci-
dentally, the great men referred to last week
by Joseph Cook learned for the first time
• —some of the limitations of our Constitu-
tion. The Trade Marks Act, the Excise
Tariff Act and the Australian Industries
Preservation Act were flung one after the
other on to the dust-heap. The in
Australian Boot Trade Employees Federa-
tion v. YVhybrow ; Rex v. Common-
wealth Court of Conciliation and Arbi-
tration; and ex parte Whybrow reduced
the value to the community of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court by about 50 per
cent. The Australian Parliament woke up
to find itself of so little importance, in re-
gard to most of the things which really mat-
tered, that members took to wondering
whether they weren’t drawing their salaries
under false pretences. (It may be that this
was why they raised their stipends £2OO
per annum all round. If a man definitely
decides to become an habitual robber he
usually takes as much as he can safely get.)
The people sent them to Parliament to con-
trol all national matters. For example, that
essentially national matter —trade. By an
unexpected twist of a tiny phrase in the
Constitution it turned out that, in the eye
of the law, they had practically no power
to legislate in regard to Australian Trade
and Commerce. As W. H. Irvine well put
it in the days before the question of amend-
ing the Constitution had developed into a
party issue: “There is no middle course be-
tween the extremely artificial restrictions
in the Constitution upon the Trade and Com-
merce power, and the complete power to
deal with commerce proposed by this amend-
ment” — i.e., the proposed Trade and Com-
merce amendment. To sum up, Australia’s
Constitution has been carefully weighed,
during well over a decade, and found to
bear no resemblance to “the British Con-
stitution upon a large and noble scale.”
Supporters of the Referenda are willing, for
the present, to sink their aspirations after
a Constitution which surpasses that of Bri-
tain. They will be content with one that
is a fractional part as effective in the way
of supplying the electors with the legislation
they have repeatedly declared for. As it
stands at present, it is, despite the some-
what blue-mouldy testimonials produced on
its behalf by Mr. Cook, a most unsatisfac-
tory Constitution.
[Constructed by John Bede Dalley, at his Plain
English Foundry, The Bulletin Office, Sydney. Go
up the front stairs, turn sharp to the left, and you
will observe the name on a glass door.]
The Weary, Tired, Exhausted, Dead Old
Commission.
Just now the 155th, or thereabouts. Com-
mission—a Commission being a purposeless
brute which is appointed to till in time, and
shelve the question, and save the Govern-
ment the trouble of making up its mind and
doing the work it is paid to attend to —is
sitting on the Greater Sydney question.
This recalls an episode of four long years
ago. The need for Greater Sydney was
shown most distinctly back in 1909, when a
dog which had expired exactly on the bound-
ary line separating two municipalities was
left unburied while a sort of inter-tribal
argument raged over its remains. The rules
of civilised warfare were ignored inasmuch
that no armistice was arranged to enable a
burial party to clear the battlefield. If the
case had been argued at the Hague, counsel
would probably have raised the technical
point that the dog had not fallen in the
fray, and was, therefore, not entitled to
have hostilities suspended. At any rate, the
deceased hound wasn’t buried until those
tireless advance agents, the sun and the
wind, had advertised it all round the dis-
trict. Since that tragedy, the municipalities
must have come to some international ar-
rangement regarding frontier corpses; or
perhaps no other dog has made the mistake
of dying simultaneously in two suburban
mayordoms. Lacking such unique adver-
tisement, the incapacity of the various sub-
urban councils is only apparent to the visit-
ing foreigner from Sydney when he attempts
to motor over the alleged or supposed roads,
for the repair and maintenance of which
rates are regularly collected. During the
recent Sydney Gas strike, the North Shore
people had to walk in darkness while Capital
and Labor argued it out. The Sydney Coun-
cil had electricity to spare, but the North
Shore principalities across the dead dog
frontiers are still lit by gas, for they have
no commercial truck with the aliens on the
south bank, and they have never had suffi-
cient cash, or enterprise, or brotherly love,
to band together and start manufacturing
their own lightning. The question of ferry
charges and overcharges is more or less
bound up with the Greater Sydney scheme.
The Private Enterprise Co. listens quite
calmly to the protests of isolated groups of
North Shore ratepayers who earn their vari-
ous livings in the foreign mayordom of Syd-
ney, and have no bridge wherewith to dodge
extortionate ferry charges. The co. might
show some signs of respectful terror, if all
the dingo protests were united in one
lion’s roar, or two lion’s roars, one
on each bank. After reckoning up
the probable advantages of municipal
union, it is depressing to hear the war-
whoops of suburban mayors, forming their
forces into a hollow square and resolved to
perish in the last dust-box rather than sur-
render a shred of their dignity. They were
bound to resist, of course; everything that
is small and useless hates everything that is
large and useful, so the rabbit flings a de-
fiance in the teeth of the working horse.
But it doesn’t snsnend the larger animal. He
may stop thoughtfully for a while. Sooner
or late-r, he walks over the rabbit.
Thus “Henry Horsecolear”
“The Federal Government’s enormous white ele-
phant” is the Sydney E. News’ gibe at the Northern
Territory. Still, the Territory isn’t in so bad a con-
dition of desertion, neglect and uselessness as N.S.W.
was 100-odd years ago, or Canada and the U.S. a little
earlier, or Maoriland a little later. The vulgar idea
that every place is accursed unless it is already built
upon and full of people grows wearisome. There
would have been no British Empire but for white
elephants, on which new English-speaking communi-
ties had a chance to grow up. There would have
been no Evening News but for the fact that some,
one found a white elephant on which it could start
business and make money, and perhaps this country
would have been a heap better and the pachyderm
a lot wiser without that paper. All the world’s his-
tory, if the Scriptural story is to be believed, started
through Adam finding a white elephant a great deal
larger and more lonesome than the Territory, and it
was continued or resumed by Noah’s discovery of a
partially-drowned elephant. It was Jehovah who
made the animal, and said it was good, and then He
rested on the seventh day. But as Jehovah wasn’t
a penny organ with a shockingly Tory picture on the
middle page, He possibly didn’t know so much as the
latter T day critic of His handiwork. Still, one grows
tired of the loud laugh that shows the vacant publi-
cation. When something inkv and a few inches
across habitually scoffs at one-sixth of a con-
tinent —our own continent —there is an aspect of
disproportion about the arrangement.
[This white elephant being possibly an issue of the
Federal elections, “Henry H.,” on second thoughts,
sheds the veil of his pen-name and reveals himself
as James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
Iceberg Irvine, who poses as an expert on
railway management through having once
figured as a railway strike-breaker, is fret-
ting himself to a mere icicle over the Refer-
endum proposal to bring railway employees
under the Arbitration laws. “To let the
Federal authority have the right to fix the
rate of wages while leaving to the State Par-
liaments the obligation to find the money—
a madder scheme never originated in the
brain of any politician !” And yet, mad as
it seems to Irvine, it is actually in force in
his own State. There the Federal authori-
ties have fixed the rate of w r ages of the
P’ran-Malvern Tramway employees, and the
Tramway Trust —which consists of the two
councils interested —has to find the money,
and does so. In another case, the State,
through its Wages Board, has fixe.d the rate of
wages of certain muncipal employees, and the
municipal councils have to find the money ;
and they not only find it but do so out of
the half-a-crown-in-the-f rate of taxation to
which the State Parliament has restricted
them. This, according to Irvine, is the
very acme of insanity, and yet the councils
seem to worry along and carry out the law
without going into hysterics. As for pri-
vate employers, the rates of wages they must
pay are fixed by the State in a hundred
trades; so the scheme which Irvine con-
siders so mad is the mere application to
the State of a rule which the State has it-
self successfully applied to the individual.
[F. C. Jones, Elgar-road, Burwood, Victoria.]
«.
The tortoise-like movements of Wages
Boards gave the syndicalists "6. chance to
boom strikes again lately'; but there will
be a setting-back to saner methods very
soon. Workmen are already recognising, in
fact, that strikes are not the weapon they
were cracked up to be. Thus when there
was a bit of trouble among a handful of
men employed by the Silverton Tramway
Co., the miners of Broken Hill whooped en-
thusiastically—until they found that the
strike of this handful of men hung up the
whole Barrier mining business, and kept
At the Carnival.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sydney crime carnival proceeds gaily.
—Cheerful statement in newspaper.
The sunset writes in blood the end of day,
The foaming ferry hurries o’er the sea,
The glum ratepayer hurries on his way
And leaves the world to armbd burglary.
A chill wind whistles in the lamplit streets,
For cheerless Winter in its arms enfolds
The tangled mazes of deserted “beats.”
(What Hops there are somewhere are
dodging colds.)
Now fades the wrapped ratepayer through
his door,
Which straight is slammed upon the
whimp’ring blast;
If he is wise, he ventures out no more,
But settles down and sees all bolts are
fast.
Then round the fire they crouch, while one
intones
The Evening Bloodstain’s latest tra-
gedies ;
Without the wind gives little starts and
moans,
Within they groan and clasp their well-
warmed knees.
Then each in turn reviles the futile Hops,
And details just what he or she would do
If burglars came. (The feeble boasting
stops....
“Did you hear THAT?” The company
looks blue.)
With trembling hand, the senior braggart
takes “
The brass-topped poker, and, with cat-like
tread,
Goes out into the hall. The flooring quakes.
The mouse, forewarned, back to its hole
has sped.
Back to the blaze the shiv’ring champion
sneaks,
And lays the poker in its place apart;
A stopped-up gutter in the garden leaks
And taps a warning to each beating heart.
At last, the dread hour comes when all must
g° , .
Off to their beds, therein to gasp their
fright,
Until they feel just brave enough to blow
With ashen cheeks the candle’s gutt’ring
light.
The household’s head, in pink pyjamas clad,
Thrusts brass-topped pills of death into
his gun.
It cost but twelve-and-six; he would be mad
To touch it off. Still — he possesses one!
He lays the pistol by the ready lamp ;
An iron bar beneath his couch is hid ;
Down in the hall, the house-dog has his
camp.
By these he hopes to be of burglars rid.
Out goes the final light, and ev’ry ear
Is cocked to hear a stealthy footfall, or
The scratch of keys. Such expectations cheer
The prostrate ones, till they begin to
snore....
The dawn steals in at last —a haggard jade
Who coldly comes to set the world to
rights.
While day is here nobody is afraid.
But. oh ! the ling’ring terror of the nightsJ
N.s.w.
KODAK.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
i . ' ~
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
*
>T
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
. . .and . . .
"MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
%
TPt*
if m
0
rut. i<
SNT
After a Trying Shopping Tour
drop into one of our theatres. Every-
thing is restful; soft lights, easy chairs,
quiet, interesting pictures, pleasing
music.
Can anything be more restful? And the
cost is a trifle.
The Crystal Palace—Sydney.
The Britannia Melbourne.
WILLIAM B. MILLER, Gen’l Manager.
WERE
EYER'WDY
GOES
<•(>00 or <OOO men out of a job at a time
wnen metals were booming and the sulphide-
gouger could easily earn 15s. a day. After
a week of that they began to speak much
more respectfully of arbitration. Now the
big Cobar mine, away out in the western
mulga of N.S.W., is hung up because there
was a strike on the N.S.W. South Coast coal
mines lately, and coal for the coke works
wasn’t forthcoming, so the coke works
stopped ; and it is no use mining ore which
can’t be . smelted without the coke that
isn’t available. While the South Coast
strike was on, Cobar whooped for the under-
dog ; now that it can’t see any hope of a
job for the next few weeks, it wishes it had
whooped for something that didn’t have such
a vicious back-kick concealed about it.
By the man whose name and address appear
below: —
Ex-Treasurer Waddell, of N.S.W., is so unhappy
about the Commonwealth notes that he has persuaded
the two Sydney morning papers to print a long screed
of about a column and a quarter to denounce the
whole thing. lie might have been quite safe if
he had stuck to vague generalities, but he left the
safe path and began to wade through the bogs of
financial history, getting out of his depth at the first
step. Thus:—
“When a Government commences to finance by the
issue of paper money made a forced legal tender, only
partially backed by gold, and only to be redeemable
at one obscure centre (Canberra) in a great conti-
nent, and in the face of the disastrous experience of
almost every nation in the world,” etc., etc.
We can just stop and look at that tissue of ab-
surdities. The Federal notes are not a forced legal
tender, nor are they “only redeemable at one ob-
scure centre (Canberra).” As for the disastrous ex-
periences, Waddell gives a long list of them, but he
dodges about from one period of history to another
in a bewildering way, and the history is loose as it
can be. He begins with the Yankee civil war, and
the issue of greenbacks, and then he jumps back
nearly 150 years to John Law, the Bank of France
and the Mississippi scheme. Waddell’s idea of the
history of the whole complicated affair is all wrong.
He tells it thus: —
“In 1718 the celebrated John Law induced the
French Government to take over principal bank
and make it a public institution, and issue notes in
order to finance Government undertakings.”
It was the Bank of France which was founded by
Law himself, and is still in existence. It belonged
to a joint-stock, unlimited co., and financed, among
other enterprises, the French East India Co. and the
Mississippi Co., founded to develop and colonise the
then French possessions called Louisiana. A specu-
lative mania arose in Parisian society for dealing
in the shares of the latter co. They went up to
fabulous prices. Immense fortunes were made and
lost, and then the bottom fell out of the
market, and shares bought at boom prices
would not sell at par. That meant ruin to
thousands, as every burst boom does. The Gov-
ernment had to step in and .suspend cash payments
to save the bank, just as the British Government did
to save the Bank of England in 1795 with much lees
justification. In each case the Government assumed
the burdens of an insolvent Private Enterprise bank.
That puts an entirely different complexion on the
case of the Bank of France, and it knocks the bottom
out of Waddell’s case against the Federal note issue.
Quite half of his instances will turn out, when an-
alysed, to have been due, like this case of the Bank
of France, to the failure of Private Enterprise.
[J. Reid, 179 Bourke-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney.]
John Madden, Chief Justice of Victoria,
will be 70 on Saturday.
A merciful release from cancer came last
week to Archibald Mackie, one of Adelaide’s
best-known men. He had been various
things—hardware merchant, traveller for
Colton and Co., a prominent Mason, chair-
man of the Adelaide Hospital’s finance-
committee, and mayor of suburban Unley.
But he found his true vocation 20 years ago,
when the Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion began to grow big. He was president
for a time, then buckled-to as secretary, and
ran the present big club-house on North
Terrace. Bearded and handsome, Mackie
was one of those big, hearty men who seem
to go most suddenly when disease gets a grip
on them.
The curse of Deeming, or somebody, has
befallen the Victorian State Ministers in
their Anti-Referenda “rally.” First of all,
Premier Murray was withdrawn from cir-
culation by a medical man who ordered him
to stop at home and “go slow.” His activity
being thus arrested, Murray arranged for
Peacock to do all the snorting at Labor for
which he (M.) was originally booked, but
Peacock had no soner got the commissioner
than he fell sick —much sicker than friend
John. And in the meantime most of his
other stable companions were coughing.
[Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office, 369 Col-
lins-street, Melbourne.]
Last year the cry was that berths could
not be secured for the host of people offer-
ing to emigrate to Australia. Now the
tune is the other way: the Emigration offi-
cials can’t get people to fill the berths they
have paid for. There were 980 berths en-
gaged on the Indranura, and less than 500
were filled. The Hawkes Bay had half its
berths empty. This meant a loss of about
£7OOO to Victoria, and altogether the State
has paid between £9OOO and £lO,OOO for
berths it has had no use for —all within the
last six months. As usual, the is
showered on the heads of Victoria’s Immi-
gration Agent and his wife, who get £650
a year; none or practically none is turned
on to the people who have “sunk the fiscal
issue,” and thus, by providing work for the
foreigner, have produced local unemployed,
and given the anti-immigrationists a chance
to circulate damning photographs of “We
want work” demonstrations abroad.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Antony and Cleopatra.”
Her Majesty’s “The Count of Luxembourg.”
Criterion “The Fortune Hunter.”
Palace “On Our Selection.”
Adelphi “Cowboy and Squaw.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Little Theatre “Fanny’s First Play.”
National Amphitheatre Brennan's Vaudeville Co.
Alhambra Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric 1
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia West's Pictures.
Imperial Roller Rink. Roller Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Sushine Girl.”
Princess’s. “A Village Priest.”
King’s “Life’s Shop Window.”
Royal “Within the Law.”
Opera House Mclntosh's Vaudeville Co.
Bijou “The Speculators.”
The Auditorium Clara Butt Concerts.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia.... Spencer's Pictures.
Lyric, Prahran. Photo Plays.
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
»
“10-2-4” makes things perfectly clear all
round :
My genial remarks, last week, on the subject of
critics, grammar and so forth, seem to have been mis-
construed in some quarters to mean that the J. C.
Williamson management is interested in the Theatre
magazine. Far be it from me to bring ruin and
utter chaos upon an estimable theatrical firm by mis-
representation, intentional or otherwise. I would,
therefore, be grateful if The Bulletin would allow
me to state definitely that the J.C.W. Co. has no con-
nection whatever with the Theatre Co. Neither
company owns a farthing’s worth of the other’s stock.
No individual member of either co. possesses a ves-
tige of a share in the other co. If the Theatre
burst to-morrow the Williamson Co.s head would re-
main, in a financial manner of speaking, above water.
If the J.C.W. firm exploded the Theatre would not
quail. The Williamson Co. has no personal hostility
to any rival firm. On the contrary, it lets them its
theatres, collaborates with them in charity entertain-
ments, and in other respects acts in a neighborly
fashion. The Theatre has no hostility to the folks
whom, from an innate passion for veracity, it is im-
pelled occasionally to assail. And the writer has
no particular hostility to anybody. Which is why
he has put his intellect to the strain of constructing
this paragraph.
* & * *
“Fanny’s First Play”—the work which
has G. B. Shaw inscribed all over it except
in the place where the author’s name usually
figures—is a huge success at the Little
Theatre, Sydney. There will be a perform-
ance each week-night, and a matinge every
Thursday till such time as the public demand
for stage brain-food is satisfied.
“ FANNY’S FIRST PLAY,” AT THE
LITTLE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Count O' Dowda discusses the play with a ridicu-
lous imitation of Randolph Bedford (Rey-
nolds Denniston).
The mora [ 0 f “The Fortune Hunter.” still
on the trail of heiresses at the Criterion, is
that if, by installing soda turbines, cash
registers, glittering shop fittings, and a stock
of the latest proprietary medicines, you
transform a derelict chemist’s shop in a
back-block township into a glittering enter-
prise, you will succeed, during the whole of
the last act, in selling one packet of fags,
Also, if you are careful to pick a girl whose
father has invented a new sort of gas, you
will marry the fortune vou failed to acquire
as a chemist. This cheerful, inconsequent
American comedy still goes its riotous way
to the satisfaction of Sydney audiences,
** * *
Bert Bailey, now producing “On Our
Selection” at the Palace, missed the chance
of his life by not being born and battling
round old Israel with his show when Saul
said unto his servants
Provide me now a man that can play well and
bring him unto me.
If Saul, who was a farmer himself and
selected at Gibeah. had seen “On Our Selec-
tion,” he might have anointed Bailey as
Prime Minister; and Ned Duggan would
have found favor in his sight; and Dave
and Joe and Sarah would have driven the
evil spirit from Saul and refreshed him so
that he would have woodened out Agag in-
stead of leaving the .job over for Samuel.
But these things came not to pass, and, be-
hold, Julius Grant rideth in a motor-car
instead of a chariot which goeth like the
wind and cometh like the Devil.
[Being the scroll of Juan Barrios, Jordan Hotel,
Jericho, a photograph of which pub appears on page
166 of the Bible Cyclopaedic Concordance, contain-
ing the Old and New Testaments translated out of the
original tongues.]
“THE SPECULATORS," AT
MELBOURNE BIJOU.
Harry Burgess as Koff off (the Nihilist).
Animals and other beasts (such as
roosters) are the rage in Sydney’s vaude-
ville shows just now. At the National
Amphitheatre, there is Toby, “the world’s
only Risley baboon,” Carl Pring’s monkeys
and a dead-shot ape. The Tivoli is featur-
ing seals and a herd of fowls. The Alham-
bra has four end-men and some nice girls,
but they are warranted not to bite during
the performances. The National’s bill is
an attractive document, but The Bulletin
regrets to_ learn that the name of “Mysteri-
ous Mick,” the dog telepathist, was removed
before it could ask him the following:—
Is there any way of discovering- the time which
elapsed between the death of the last of the fossil-
ised men in one geological formation and the birth
of their nearest relatives contained in the geological
formation above him ?
George Reid not long ago asked that of the
Royal Scottish Geographical Society, but
no answer was forthcoming, and now that
“Mysterious Mick” has done a guy it looks
as if it will always remain more or less a
problem.
[This is not signed by the writer owing to the fact
that George Reid is not a factor in Federal politics.]
The cine, film, “Quo Vadis,” for whose
Australian rights Spencer’s are said to have
paid £4OOO [The writer would like all over
£l5OO or £2000.] was brought up for trial on
Saturday, and the jury, without retiring, re-
turned a verdict of “Most excellent.” The
story, by Sienkiewicz, deals with the good
old days of Nero, the ancient Emperor who
breathed soft airs upon his fiddle while
Rome’s fire insurance offices were being
ruined. Among the most remarkable of a
remarkable series of scenes were the interior
views of the great arena, with its hundreds
of lookers-on dressed in the costumes of the
day; the casting of the Christians to the
lions (the man behind the curtain who pro-
vides the noises, not being supplied with an
instrument which reproduces the sound of a
lion eating Christians, remained silent here-
abouts) ; the festival scenes in Nero’s
palace ; the burning of Rome ; and the efforts
of Petronius to pacify the howling mob with,
as the film puts it, “liberal promises.” Being
“liberal,” the promises naturally didn’t event-
uate, with the result that Nero lost favor
and died young. The film is a most notable
example of what the cinematograph can do.
And the incidental music—there were 32
selections, together with some choir inci-
dentals —would make a very fair entertain-
ment by itself.
*!*
Of the various cooks who are just now
endeavoring to entertain this city, the least
tiresome is at the Adelphi. This particular
cook, by insisting that the harmless villain
in “The Cowboy and the Squaw” be sacked,
is mainly responsible for the better part of
that gentleman’s sins. But, whereas the
most uninteresting of the bunch will not
cease disturbing the peace till the end of the
month, this lady, with the rest of the Adelphi
company, will fade away at the end of next
week, when an Anderson campaign will open.
Of the other cooks, the most uninteresting
one (curtain and groans).
* * * *
The inevitable calm has followed the
storm at the Tivoli. Alberto Marini, the
Italian, tenor, appears to be a rival of Nella
Webb in the matter of re-appearances, and
IVfanni Rets the verdict. The Patti Frank,
who make things willing in the way offi
bathes for half an hour or so, are also back
for a while. Others who also run are Tr P
bor s seals, the de Bruns, Osborn
Brookes, O’Hana San and the Jacksomf
Next week the collection of educated S
mals etc. will be further augmented by a
collection of trained fowls who can do nearlv
anything except lay eggs when eggs are 3*
a dozen. os>
** * *
The “Puss in Boots” panto, starts on i ts
travels after Friday next. On the following
Saturday I ranz Lehar’s “The Count of
Luxembourg arrives at Her Majesty's
Sydney. This is the comic opera in which
the hero and heroine waltz upstairs- thus
differentiating it completely from all thn, P
stage productions in which the characters
have walked, reeled, staggered, crawled f a l
len, dashed, tottered feebly, trailed wearily
galloped, fled, bounded and been kicked nn
stairs.
Certain recent floods in the United State,
afforded the Crystal Palace a good opnS
tunity this week of inviting the public to
pay its usual shilling and drop inside. F o r
its money- the public got a series of very fine
pictures, which, however, wouldn’t have suf
fered much had the last 30 or so feet been
scissored off. The other attraction was a
start-to-finish picture of the Liverpool Grand
National Steeplechase, in the making 0 f
which 35 machines were used.
“Antony and Cleopatra,” now residing at
Sydney Royal, will defy the glumly silent
Wowsers of Sydney for about one
week more after this Bulletin is
seen in the dripping tram of winter,
and on the plunging, wind-swept ferry-
boat, where the sliding doors are never
shut unless the officiating deck-hand himself
feels chilly. The continued cold, wet weather
may have something to do with the with-
drawal of the scantily-dressed Shaksbacon
drama. Perhaps R. lan Penny, of the beau-
tiful tattooed legs and exposed chest, went
on strike. If an Antarctic blizzard struck
the splendid show, Penny would be the first
to freeze to death.
“The Odd Man Out,” Harold Brig-
house’s light comedy, has had the odd for-
tune to appeal to the serious, and was given
a trial trip by the Adelaide Literary
Theatre. Its main idea is exactly that of
“Turned Up,” the farce given long ago by
the Broughs and Anson. Daniel disap-
peared, and his Wowser wife has married
Jonas. Daniel comes back when his daughter
is grown up, and is just in time to prevent
her being forced to marry Jonas’s nephew,
to keep the money (Daniel’s money) in the
family. The man she nrefers was being
turned off because he doesn’t go to church
(whereat a mostly-feminine audience for
some reason laughed consumedly). The
wife wavers visibly between her two hus-
bands, but Daniel’s new Central American
wife comes after him. and all ends brightly.
There are some good lines. “Perhaps she
speculates?” “Bah! Does she look like a
speculator?” “No. Speculators never do.”
The repressed girl: “It’s so hard to be happy
and good.” The cheerful father: “We’re
alwavs good when we’re happy.” And he
compares himself favorably with Lloyd
George, because as treasurer of his Central-
American Republic “any remuneration I re-
ceived depended upon my skill in account-
ancy.” But the earnest students of the
Drama who accepted this as part of the soul-
ful literature of the age were strangely de-
ceived. The acting was excellent, as such,
but in the matter of dependence on the
prompter it was about the worst thing the
Lit. Theatre has done ; wherefore, no names
shall be mentioned.
4c * * *
The Brennan-Fuller circuit introduces to
Australia the Banzai family of weird bal-
ancers, now r at Adelaide King’s. It is a
great . turn. The King’s has also Madge
Beresford. a jolly principal boy kind of
singer of no special distinction, but with
“THE
SPECULATORS .”
FRANK VACK
AS
MIKE BLOOM.
good songs. The Tivoli has scored a Govern-
ment House night. De Biere was the special
attraction. At the Royal, the lady <rfth e
Wrong Turning caters for the Cup Week
crowd, which can see Pav. pictures or Society
of Arts pictures all day, and Broncho


ENGLAND’S Latest Light Car.
STONELEIGH
Weight of
Chassis, llcwt.
m
r
Silent Knight Daimler Engine, Detachable Wire Wheels, Worm Drive, etc.
SUNSHINE Motor Cars P’t’y, Melbourne!
HUGH V. McHAY. Sydney & Adelaide/
Agents.
vn
OOQRD & SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
SWIFT &- COMPANY, AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS, O CONNELL ST SYDNEY
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Victorian Branch |so e^ E s R tr “*; ia^e e r ,bourne - Pitt 8 Ring Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Bates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
George s buckjumpers at night. The big
film-fakers are competing with heavy drama;
West’s “Mistirables,” Wondergraph “Theo-
dora’' and “Inferno,” Empire a deep-sea
diting thrill. And Heinicke’s splendid
orchestra has again crammed the Exhibition.
** * *
The humor of “Man and Superman” will
soar over the heads of the multitude for two
more nights only, and then the present sea-
son at Melbourne Itoyal will pass away, tak-
ing Julius Knight and co. with it. Another
co., with four new faces in leading parts, is
to introduce “Within the Law” to Mel-
bourne. Judging from the advt., the Yankee
play is a snorter, which holds the mirror up
to crime and shows the inoo Yark police
their own astuteness.
“Life’s Shop Window,” as will be gathered
from this exhaustive statement of the plot,
is not the most blood-curdling drama on
record at the King’s. Apparently it was
closely adapted from a novel which had done
nothing to deserve further publicity. The
first act, wherein the heroine’s affectionate
disposition is dimly hinted at, has no real
bearing on the rest of the play. Six of the
characters who appear in it are never heard
of more. When the play begins, in the
second act, the dramatic cat and her kittens
are at once out of the bag. There is no
mystery, and nothing to marvel at, save the
fatuous complacence of the husband. Cvril
Mackay is doomed to undertake the absurdity
of being Bernard Chetwynd. Roy Redgrave,
garbed on the lines of an operatic Pole, is
the “aristocrat” who wastes time with Mrs.
C. Rutland Beckett is free and forcible as
Hodge, the guardian of Mrs. C.’s giddiness.
Max Clifton and Helen Fergus are visitors
at the blessed ranch. The two redskins are as
little ridiculous as such grotesque figures can
be made, and a word of thanks is due to Em-
mie South for her impersonation of a love-
sick vixen in the first act. Olive Wilton, as
the heroine, shrugs her shoulder to the wheel
with earnest desire to push the play along,
and Temple Harrison’s comic relief is rea-
sonably humorous. No drama staged at the
King’s has been better acted all round.
Moreover, Reg. Robins has done nothing
more effective in scene painting, although
the opening landscape shows a blossoming
fruit tree in the foreground, early summer
in the background, and bounteous harvest
time in the middle distance.
One Sholto, who had acquired a store of
diamonds and other valuable bits of glass,
perished in such an unaccountable manner
at Melbourne Olympia on Saturday that
Charles Spencer hired Sherlock Holmes to
diagnose the mystery. The result was seen
in the usual long strip of weirdness and ad-
venture, which showed that the great Sher-
lock now hunts for clues with the help of
a bloodhound’s nose. Another sort of story
was “Just Like a Mother,” in which filial
respect is filmed as a demented obsession;
while “Off the Road” entertained the house
with the fable of a man whose conscience
had made a mess of his reasoning powers.
A good scenic topic was a view of Ceylon,
wherein Nature tries to be as obtrusively
charming as a Flossie with all her war-
paint on.
At the Opera House Cummin and Seaham
are now before the aggregate eye of Mel-
bourne with a balancing and somersaulting
turn containing odd turns of leg and unex-
pected climaxes. Their entertainment is
good, and the silence of their “business”
gives it the appearance of an act by bio-
graph. Charles Zoli continues to reveal the
wickedness of the blighter Spagoni. Miss
Madge Temple is also heard, and her
dresses sing charmingly. Clarke a,nd
Margaret Dale Owen are earning their
daily bread and dripping in a weird sketch
composed of impersonations, chatter and odds
and ends. Miss Owen has little to say, but
as she makes a mouthful of even a monosyl-
lable, a few words from her sound like the
Ten Commandments or the Athanasian
Creed.
The boss thrill in the “ Quo Vadis ” picture
at Sydney Lyceuhi Old-age pension lions trying
to lunch on a mob of Christians.
At Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, a brief re-
vival of “The Cingalee” closes to-night
(Thursday). On Saturday the other of the
Combine’s musical companies—the Royal
Comics —brings “The Sunshine Girl” to Mel-
bourne for the first time. The city needs all
the sunshine it can get just now, and
although it was not crying out for more Girl,
this one will be hailed with satisfaction on
account of her name.
The Princess’s missed the financial mark
with “A Woman of Impulse,” whose eccentric
behavior in the interests of an unsober father
was as unaccountable as the conduct of the
hvbrid conspirator who made all the trouble.
“The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,” with Tither-
adge as Cayley Drummle, is the bill of the
moment. On Saturday a revival of “A Vil-
lage Priest” brings Tith. back to his old part
of the Abbe (older and fitter for it than
ever), and gives the rest of the co. a further
opportunity to give an admirable perform-
ance.
“The Speculators,” at the Bijou, appear to
be going quite as well as their near relatives,
“The Grafters,” who preceded them. Or
even better. The present observer saw
nothing to shriek about in “The Grafters,”
but some of the items in these similar goings
on have moved him to mirth. The first act
is funny until it approaches a dull finale, and
the second act has eruptions of quaint fooline.
Every night the Bijou is crowded. Two mati-
nees a week are absorbed by the overflow.
The suddenly popularised theatre doesn’t
know itself. Its amazement is probably in-
tensified by the announcement that an un-
named owner is prepared to take a new
tenant for any period from May 24.
“THE SPECULATORS .”
A snapshot of leg.
J. and N. Tait have devoted many inches
of advt. space to a repeated assurance that
the Auditorium, in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, will be ready for the grand opening
next Saturday (17th). Openings of new
show places are invariably Grand,' but some
are more so than others, and the Auditorium
threatens to disclose itself under boshter cir-
cumstances. Clara Butt and Kennerley
Rumford will give the new concert hall its
baptism of song. Thereupon the neighboring
Town Hall, where musical Melbourne has
long been in the habit of catching cold, will
take the name of Mud. On the other hand,
the more adjacent Athenaeum Hall is assum-
ing airs of increased importance. For the
next six weeks “The Dandies” will supply
the airs.
* * sjs *
A season of weeping, wailing and gnash-
ing of handkerchiefs set in at the P’ran
Lyric (Vic.) last week, when “Mary, the
Flower Girl,” turned up to harrow the pub-
lic feelings. Mary started the anguish early
by prolonged grief over the corpse of her
darling cheild, and later, when she became
the butt of a dose of vitriol, intended for a
pompous Hinglish squire, various water-
works broke down and females mourned
moistly. “By Unseen Hands” was the other
Lyric sensation —the yarn of a criminal gang
that went to ruinous lengths in carrying out
the dead-ordinary crime of embezzling from
the person. As usual, a cold, calculating ’tec
figured in the effusion, but his cleverness was
not over-surprising, and his train of thought
occasionally left the rails.
Says “Nemo” :
Last week, the R.C. Archbishop of Adelaide, Dr.
O’Reily, celebrated the “silver jubilee” of his epis-
copacy, and many and costly offerings were made
him by the clergy and people. The Archbishop’s
“province” is not a big one. He has only one suffra-
gan bishop, he of Port Augusta. Dr. “Johnny” Nor-
ton, of that diocese, who is a Melbourne boy, brought
a nice little present of 100 sovs. to his chief. And
the R.C.’s of the Port are not rich or many. I knew
the Right Rev. Johnny away in the '7o’s, when he
was an ecclesiastical student at St. Patrick’s College.
There were only three or four students of that sort,
and one of them was named Kelly. He is now a
“Doctor” and parish priest at North Fitzroy. Young
Norton was a swell for a student. He was, and is
still, a small man, but he wore a big silk hat as
though he were already a bishop. Johnny sung a
good song and accompanied himself. He liked
society and society liked him. For that reason, per-
haps, the late Archbishop Goold got the opinion that
he had not a vocation for the priesthood. But he was
not to be shifted like that. He offered himself to
the diocese of Adelaide, and was accepted. Later
on, a bishop for Port Augusta was wanted, and the
priests voted Father Norton No. 1, or, as they put
it, “Dignissimus,” the worthiest. Three names were
sent to Rome, the “dignus” was Dr. Kelly, of Fitz-
roy. The student with the big hat, who thus became
Bishop Norton, is son of a wise mining man, and
got his good head from his father.
One “iEdile” was inspired by “the march
past of 20,000 young Australian conscripts”
to provide the S. M. Herald with some
reminiscences of marchings that he has wit-
nessed in his time. One of them occurred in
Vienna: —
I was in Vienna in 1897 when a state of war existed
between Greece and Turkey Every morning at
about five, from 50,000 to 100,000 troops would
march through the streets from a caserne on one
side of the beautiful city to another on the other
side.
A caserne is a barracks, and why “iEdile”
felt it necessary to go so far for this
simple phrase isn’t apparent. That, how-
ever, by the way. What this paper jibs at
is the yarn itself. A column of 50,000 men,
or, in other words, two army corps, would be
nearly 22 miles long; and it would take at
hours to pass any given point on
its route. So, if the leading section of the
column left the “caserne” at five o’clock, it
would be nearly 1 p.m. before the last sec-
tion got under way. On the mornings on
which 100,000 men marched across the city,
the whole of the traffic must have been
blocked along the line of route for 14 hours.
In all other respects “..Edile’s” story bears
the marks of truth and accuracy.
LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Just keep your eye on Lydia,” her husband
saul to Hodge,
And llodgey always did as he was bid ;
He uttered moral precepts if the lady tried
to dodge
Her duty to her Bernard and the kid.
He checked the flighty Lydia,
When she was feeling giddier.
And wanted of her husband to be rid.
Tol-de-rol!
From England to America (where Bernard
had a ranch
And made a lot of money out of cows)
Fair Lydia departed, with her infant olive
branch.
Then Eustace, whose insinuating bows
Were meant, you guess and calculate,
Her tender heart to agitate,
Begged Lyddy to forget her marriage
vows.
Tol-de-rol!
But honest Hodge was watching her; he
loved the matron dear,
And loved her reputation even more.
She’d packed her summer blouses: her in-
tention was to clear,
And taste the guilty happiness in store,
When Mr. Ilodve, the rouseabout,
Reminded her those vows about,
And pushed her back, repentant, from the
door.
Tol-de-rol!
A fickle jade was Lydia, uncertain in her
mind.
And Eustace played a squeaky violin.
When Bernard went a-travelling, and she
.. was left behind,
Eustace had a way of dropping in.
A persevering middle-man,
Who plays a squeaky fiddle can.
Lure lots of little matrons into Sin.
Tol-de-rol!
A bullet in the diaphragm laid Hodge upon
his back,
And stopped him from proceeding in pur-
suit,
But two devoted Indians were soon upon the
track
Of Eustace and his stolen bit of fruit.
And Lyddy, who’d enraptured him,
Protested when they captured him.
She took no earthly interest in the brute.
Tol-de-rol !
Then back to Bernard’s domicile the peni-
tent made haste,
And Eustace told bim straight that she
was Good.
A cowboy recommended him to pinch her
willing waist:
The Injins also told him that he should.
“Just make a fuss of Lydia,”
Said Hodge, “and that will stiddy her.”
So Bernard gave his promise that he
would.
Tol-de-rol!
Gay Eustace with his fiddle passed forever
from the ranch.
To lead a purple life beyond the seas.
Dear Lyddy, one imagines, got a second olive
branch.
And nursed ’em both at once upon her
knees.
And if she seemed to yearn a bit.
For Bernard, he would learn of it
From Hodge, who softly whispered,
“Wants a squeeze.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Tom King, one of the oldest showmen in N. S.
Wales, is to have a benefit at the National Amphi.
on Thursday, May 29. King was a pioneer of the
circus business. He was part-proprietor of seven
circus cos., proprietor of two amphitheatres, and sev-
eral dramatic cos., and was touring manager for a
number of stars in opera and drama. But he had
gallons of bad luck to dilute his few pints of for-
tune, and of late years the old man’s way has been
hard and full of thorns.
“E.T.”: London’s most theatrical event, im-
pending when my last remittance left London, was
Kudyard Kipling’s first appearance on his own as a
dramatist. Kip has hitherto been known to the
stage only per medium of adaptations done by other
hands. He now comes forward with an original nlay
called “The Harbor Watch,” which should “go” all
right. It is to have its run at the Royalty, which
little playhouse seems to own the “lj,vest” manage-
ment in the Foggy Metropolis.
“0.K.”: Some months ago a Bulletin par. in-
stanced the poor attendances at Snowden’s Pictures
in Melbourne (then a recently opened show) as proof
that the cinematograph form of entertainment was
losing popularity, and the game was, in fact, nearly
played out. Since then quite a number of new sub-
urban pictures have been opened in Melbourne, yet
the business at Snowden’s has risen to dividend level.
Circumstances altered the case. The management
began to know the ropes. The public, who had stayed
away after the opening night, returned in great
volume at Easter time, and now Snowden’s might be
quoted as evidence that the demand for pictures, even
within Melbourne city radius, where the theatres are,
exceeds the supply on Saturday nights. In the sub-
urbs the competition is keener every month, and the
fittest will survive. As regards the generally im-
proving quality of the films, there is much of a
muchness among the rival shows. The fitness for
survival lies in the superiority of one location over
another, and in speculative property conditions. Some
of the picture-hall syndicates’ properties are freehold
or long leasehold, and the value of the site has
doubled within 12 months. Some suburbs are growl-
ing all the time, and the picture theatre attracts
business to its particular neighborhood—if the site
was wisely chosen. Of course, if speculators are so
foolish as to build in advance of local requirements,
their show must “do a perish,” but if they can pay
bare expenses at first, they can safely trust to the
future to bring a profit. The total yearly attendance
at pictures in Melbourne, or any other big city in the
Commonwealth, has not yet ceased to increase, nor
is it likely to. But the number of halls increases
disproportionately.
“J.F.H.”: London has a little novelty in the shape
of “The Yellow Jacket,” a Chinese play given in
the Chinese manner, at the Duke of York’s. The
most important personage in it is the property man,
who is supposed to be invisible, but is really on the
stage all the time, turning tables into mountains,
producing bags for severed heads, placing ladders
against the walls to enable disembodied spirits
to mount to the Chinese heaven, and making himself
a generally useful rouseabout. At the back of the
stage is a Chinese orchestra of three, and ijnmedi-
ately in front of them sits a “childlike and bland’
Mongolian, who rises from time to time to explain
how things are going. Compared with these two
the real actors and actresses in “The Yellow Jacket”
look like mere supers.
(Continued on page 30.)
The Henty (Vic.) Federal contest, which
promised some excitement with Harper (ex-
M.H.R.), Boyd, Hewison, H. H. Champion
and the Labor man in the field, has gone
as flat as a pint of temperance ale. Harper
failed to nominate; so did Champion; and
Hewison retired in favor of Boyd, after
arbitration. Now, therefore, a very hope-
less David opposes a corpulent and confi-
dent Goliath. Henty division contains a
large lump of Thomas Bent country, repre-
sented in the State Parliament by Snow-
ball, Prince of Orange; and the northern
section of the electorate has beautiful Nor-
man Bayles as its M.L.A. Even to the most
optimistic Laborite the contest, in the
altered circumstances, looks like a mere
early-morning gallop for Goliath.
[Frank Henty, Yarraby, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
The other Saturday morning the engine
of a passenger train between Williamstown
and Melbourne puffed heavily for a space,
then groaned and wheezed, and finally came
to a dead stop. After consideration, the
passengers alighted and investigated. Had
the Sosh tiger broken loose and devoured
the driver? Had Capital so besmeared the
rails in its flight from the country that the
wheels wouldn’t grip? Or had the State
miners at Wonthaggi gone on strike, and
were the wheels of commerce refusing to go
round? No, it was none of these. It was
merely that the “best-managed railway sys-
tem in the world” had expected the driver
to get two tons of horse-power out of one
ton of coal, in a manner of speaking, and he
couldn’t do it. So the outfit had to stay
where it was till a fresh supply came along.
Sydney Daily Telegraph’s chief financial
authority could, at a pinch, answer “Yes”
to all the Referendum questions except one.
It is the proposal to authorise the Common-
wealth to take over a monopoly that chokes
him. The dreadful feature about it is that
the thing isn’t to wander through half a
dozen courts; he whispers hoarsely that the
business may be done by a “simple resolu-
tion” of both Houses of Parliament. _ With
such a law in existence, whose pie-stall
would be safe? But whose pie-stall is safe
even if the new law isn’t passed? By equally
simple resolutions of two Houses over which
the people have far less control —in fact, over
one of them thev haven’t any control at all —
it can be laid down that nobody shall prac-
tise as a financial editor in N.S.W. unless
he wears three warts on his nose and dyes
his beard blue. It is a perilous thing to
leave such powers in the hands of the State,
when you come to think of it.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


I
THE ZAMBRENE ( Registered)
WATERPROOF OVERCOAT-75/-
This illustration shows you the Zambrene registered
Overcoat-Rainproof, fashioned to fit with comfort, ease and
distinction. We are Sole Agents in New South Wales for
this World-renowned Waterproof Overcoat. Although Rain-
proof they are porous—no rubber but double yarn proof—■
which makes them suitable to be worn as an ordinary Rain
Coat, a slip-over or Motor Coat. The rain resistance is
obtained by treating the yarn by a special process both before
and after weaving, which prevents the rain from penetrating
the cloth, except by pressure or friction. The lining is also
similarly treated. They will also withstand dust, and afford
protection from wind and cold. Zambrene is full cut, with
long vent at back, and Storm Cuffs. In Grey with fine
Green Stripes, Dark Grey Mixture, fine Twill ; fine Light
Brown Herringbone Mixture —with check wool lining. In
sizes 36 to 44 inches Breast Measure.
Price 75/- Also at 90/-
DAVID JONES PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
f -
Kugelmann’s
Pure Herbal
Skin Soap.
“Beauty's Aid.”
Free ‘ ample sent on Receipt °
Twopenny Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin Soap
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Stores v
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box or tt
tablets. If not obtainable locally, send
or Stamps of any State, to the'value of . <• returll
ing postage), when box will be posted p
mail.
Sole Proprietors:
H E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE;
SYDNEY ; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBAN^
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
The poor widow with the large family
whom Fat is so anxious to help, has at last
been found. She isn’t exactly a widow, be-
cause she has a bed-ridden husband, but she
possesses a large family, all daughters; also,
she has a small farm in South Gippsland.
She recently interviewed Vic. Public Works
Minister Edsrar, in company with several
Shire councillors, to ask him to “do some-
thing.” Her trouble was that,. though she
was only 12 chains from a main road, the
large landowner through whose property she
would have to pass to get. to that thorough-
fare churlishly refused to let her have right
of way, and she had to cart her produce five
miles round over an awful bush track, with
grades varying from one in seven to one in
nine. The" council was willing to spend £5B
in making the bit of road for her, but the
landowner demanded £338 for the strip of
soil, and the council couldn’t afford that
much. Edgar, who evidently doesn’t know
much about large landowners, was surprised,
not to say shocked, and promised to deal
with the "unneighborly monopolist as sud-
denly as the law would allow. Also, he re-
marked that instead of talking about com-
pensation the councils should speak about
an improvement rate; the Country Roads
Board had large powers in that direction,
he reminded them.
ON THE TOP.
CIDDY : “Oh look, Issy, can you float alone?”
ISSY: “I dunno. How big a loan did you vant?”
N. S. Wales »iunicipal councils have been
bombarded with a circular from a meeting
of “the citizens of Cooma” begging them to
hit the Commonwealth Government up over
the Boon Gooey business, and also use their
influence to get Parliament to amend the
law so as to “allow naturalised British sub-
jects to have their wives in Australia.” The
citizens of Cooma can, of course, carry what
resolutions they like, though, for a start,
they would be best occupied polishing up
their own untidy little township ; but muni-
cipal councils have nothing to do with any
Poon Gooey business that Cooma may bring
under their notice. When the people want
aldermen and councillors to butt into
national politics they will make Senators
and members of the House of Reps, of
them ; till then they have no more right to
consume the ratepayers’ gas or sperm-candles
while they discuss such matters than the
municipal dustman has to use the contents
of the municipal cupboard to poison his
mother-in-law.
[S. H. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
“0.K.” writes: —
A brother of the late Major-General Hoad was last
week knocked down and killed by a motor-cycle, in
what is about the broadest of Melbourne thorough-
fares —the road opposite the Princess’s Theatre. One
day it will dawn upon the authorities that motor-
cycles, puffing and spluttering along close to the
tram line, are about five times more perilous to
pedestrians than the more demonstrative motor-cars.
In this case the victim is said to have been deaf. He
seems to have heard the alarm sounded by the
cyclist, but he misjudged his chance of dodging the
streak of danger. When he fell his head struck the
iron grating of the tram line in the centre of the
road, so his death was practically due to the fact
that petrolled vehicles are permitted to travel in the
middle of the road, whereas they should be restricted
to the sides. With a tram-car and motor-car coming
one way and a tram-car and puffing cycle coming the
opposite way, and all of them keeping to the central
section of the street, a person crossing the line of
trouble can be easily killed without being deaf at
the time.
* * * *
Sydney Telegraph’s London corres-
pondent wrote the other day of the golden
chances Australia was missing in the immi-
grant line: —
Australia, by a little enterprise, can have thous-
ands of army reservists. There is an excellent chance
of doing business on a big scale with the Soldiers’
Land Settlement Association. If Australia moves
promptly, a large number of these men could, in all
probability, be secured for a special settlement in the
Northern Territory.
Now, army reservists are bound by the terms
of their engagement to hold themselves in
readiness to join their regiments and com-
plete their unexpired term of service when
called upon. If an army reserve man comes
here without previously getting his dis-
charge, for which he would have to pay, he
will be, not to put too fine a point on it, a
deserter. As for the other concern, the Sol-
diers’ Land Settlement Association, it is
simply for the benefit of discharged soldiers,
who may be men discharged on pension
either because they have completed 12 or
24 years’ service, or because they have be-
come more or less incapacitated. The
World’s Work recently gave the experience
of an English squire of a couple of such old
soldiers: —
He built a pair of up-to-date cottages with an acre
of fertile arable land to each, and let them to first-
class army pensioners. Both these rash persons had
to retire after a short trial, with their money gone.
The landlord released them from their agreements.
He agreed with me that it is iniquitous to attract
army and navy, men to small holdings.
Even men who have worked as boys on a
farm, and enlisted at IS or 19, forget the
little they have learned during 12 to 24
years’ soldiering. In fact, they forget every-
thing that is of any real value in the ordin-
ary battle of life —a tragedy on which Rud-
yard has kippled bitterly more than once.
[J. Reid, 179 Bourke-street, Darlinghurst, Sydney.]
“Mofussil” :
The Gaekwar of Baroda (the colored gentleman
who slighted the King at the Durbar, and got in-
volved in an English
divorce suit, and
was suspected of
“disloyalty,” and
suffered much gener-
ally') has lent the S.
Kensington Museum
(London) part o f
the famous Pearl
Carpet. This article,
with a magnificent
canopy named the
Pearl Veil, and a set
o f gold carpet
weights e n crusted
with diamonds, was
prepared by Khaude
Rao (nicknamed by
the English Cordu-
roy) who was Gaek-
war between 1856
and 1870. The wild
extravagance was
perpetrated at the
instigation of a Mo-
hammedan wife, and
the idea was to offer
it to Mah o m e t’s
Tomb. India’s great-
est embroiderers and
jewellers were em-
ployed; and the cost of this, the most wonderful
piece of embroidery ever known, was fabulous.
Amaziiig to relate, the Chief Mullahs refused to ac-
cept the gift, unless it was burst up and the jewels
given to the poor. Hence, possibly, the term Mad
Mullah.
THE BOY SCOUTS.
BIG BROTHER BILL: “ Wanter come wif us, do you? What bloomin' good would you
be in a war?”
CAPTING (in the distance): “Better let ’ini come, and I’ll make 'im me aide-de-kong.
We can't keep the whole bloomin’ army waiting.”
Prom a man who knows China inside and
out: —
How thoroughly Poon Gooey has pulled the Aus-
tralian’s sentimentalist’s leg! When the wily gen-
tleman and his ’ fecund spouse embarked, on the
Yawata Maru, at Melbourne, one daily paper consid-
ered the occasion worthy' of a full column. Poon
Gooey, it said, “proposed to his wife in Canton 12
years ago.” Rot! Even if the man had been Euro-
peanised enough to do such a thing, the girl’s mother
would see that it didn’t happen. Chinese marriages
are arranged by an agent, who goes to and fro be-
tween the parents. In 999 cases out of a thousand
A GREAT ADVANTAGE.
PASSENGER (to pilot): “Just Jancy, coming up
to Heaven without dying!"
the first sight the “loving couple” have of each
other is after the bride steps out of her red (mar-
riage) sedan chair. The parent—especially the
mother —is all-powerful in arranging a match, and
the likeliest thing for a returned Chinese to find is
that he has been married by proxy during his ab-
sence. Said proxy may be a man ; more generally it
is a rooster. Very few of even the most “advanced”
Chinese have the privilege of choosing their wives.
“Loved his wife for 12 years,” did he? There is
no such thing as inter-sex love in China, and no
word exists which conveys the idea. The woman is
merely a domestic drudge and potential mother of
sons to carry out the rites of ancestor worship.
Should she fail to bear a son she is relegated to the
background, and another wife is brought in. Poon
Gooey may be as honest as a Chinese can be —and
that is high commendation, indeed—but in this mat-
ter he first tried to diddle the Alien Immigration
Act, and his subsequent shifty moves have been made
with the object of “saving his face.” Anyone who
knows anything of the Chinese should know that a
Chinese will stop at nothing to “save his face.”
Once in a mess, the essential thing is that he should
get out of it; and his code will allow him to do just
about anything to accomplish his ends.
In an obscure corner, among the general
cable news the other morning, S. M. Herald
printed this item :
The deficits of four leading missionary societies are
stated to be: London Missionary Society, £29,000;
Church Missionary Society, £28,000; Wesleyan Mis-
sionary Society, £11,000; and the Baptist Mission-
ary Society, £lO,OOO.
It is eloquent of the way in which the British
are breaking away from parsondom. The
game or business of mishing owes most of its
setbacks to the spread of edu-
cation. People understand bet-
ter than they did the imper-
tinent futility of—say—mis-
sions to convert the Jews; and
they have long ago learned from
the-daily press that the return
in salvaged souls is not nearly
commensurate with the cash
outlay on the same. A great
part of the glamor of mission-
ary enterprise during the last
century was due to the sup-
posed successes it gained in the
Pacific islands. The idea that
whole nations of cannibal islan-
ders, at the bidding of the mis-
sionary, suddenly took to the
Open Bible, ceased to feed on
human flesh, and allowed their
idols to be smashed, w T as highly
gratifying to the good folks of
60 or 70 years ago. It is now
known that the islanders do
not take to the Bible with a
fraction of the enthusiasm that
they do to drink, and that their
present Christianity is really
not so very different from their old pagan-
ism, while the present-day missionary is
often little better than a trader who, pushes
his business by threatening his customers
with the fires of Sheol.
The public service authorities of Victoria
are precise animals who like things done in
proper order, so when they recently sent the
State School teachers ballot papers on which
to vote for a new classifier they also sent a
memorandum desiring the recipient ,to
(1) Take the voting paper out of the envelope.
(2) Mark the paper as per instructions thereon.
(3) Re-fold it as before.
(4) Place it in the envelope.
(5) Close the envelope. ,
(6) Write his (or her) name on the outside
the envelope. „
(7) Post it, so as to be received by the P.S. com-
missioner before noon on May 14, 1913.
The instructions seem fairly complete, an
should be intelligible even to an ordinal .
educated school teacher, yet they omit
important detail —as to unfolding the pap •
How in the name of Weary can the hap ■
teacher be expected to know how to un
the blessed thing?
FROST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The winter heralded its appearance on Tuesday
morning on the Blue Mountains in a magnificent
white frost. While there have been other frosts this
season, there has been none with the spectacular
effect of this one. On Monday evening soon after
sunset the thermometer registered 32° in the open
on the higher levels of the mountains, and the next
morning the hills and valleys presented a picture of
glistening splendor, the beauty of which was en-
hanced by the first rays of the sun. The Kanimbla
Valley was covered, as were the hills in the direction
of Jenolan Caves. —S. M. Herald.
I hug warm memories of vanished Summer ;
I dream of ling’ring sunlight and hot sands ;
But dreaming coldly makes me somewhat glummer
Than wearing chilblains on my frozen hands.
The cold fire splutters in its futile manner ;
The night comes swiftly, and its breath is cold.
(I see a stout man wave a red bandanner,
And eat pink wafers on a beach pure gold.)
That sea of slate the south wind coldly ruffles
Is not the same wherein I used to swim.
(A coughing neighbor past the window shuffles ;
With influenza his poor eyes are dim.)
I plant my feet upon the burnished fender ;
They’re nearly perished—like my suffering hands.
The wind is whining like a moneylender.
(Are they now cold, those gold, sun-roasted
sands?)
The frost upon the mountains! D —n those writers!
What codfish yearns of mountain frost to sing?
THE FIRE IS GOING OUT!!... .Where are those
blighters?. . . .
The frost!! (Ah-h Qhoo-oo!) How long is
it to Spring?
N.S.W
COLD FEET.


kicked on the knee.
“I was kicked on the knee by one of my horses,”
writes Mr. Duncan 11. Stevens, South Street, Field-
ing (N.Z.), “and am confident that but for Chamber-
lain’s Pain Balm I would have been unfitted for
work 1 could not stand for hours, but applied
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm freely, and after applying
it once the next day was quite recovered.
KIDNEY DISEASE
and all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them a
trial. Price, Is, 6d. and 2s. Od. Obtainable every,
where,*
Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30 ; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
vnb
FASHION HALF-HOSE
with Neat Clox in Colored Silk.
Fashion favors black cashmere half-hose, with the
slight color-relief afforded by clox in colored silk.
We feature these half-hose in grades of cashmere that
yield very substantial wear.
The clox are embroidered in blue, red, and white silk,
and make a pleasing, unobtrusive color-effect.
PRICES: 2/6 and 3/- per pair; 14/6 and 17/6 per
half-dozen.
Postage : 6d. on the half-dozen.
Men’s Wear Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters, g 311 George Street, Sydney.
“Extra Trousers Free” : As a member of
the two-suits-a-year army, I have been won-
dering what sort of a time that poor marks-
man, Thomas Jones Chia, had with his lib-
rary of 80 suits. As Heaven is my witness,
the moth is a swift animal, and it is one
watchful wife's, work to keep him from the
winter vest behind the bedroom door and the
summerbound overcoat in the hall. He is a
shark and an alligator, also a vulture, and
his teeth are more numerous than the Social-
istic tiger’s. In fact, it is generally recog-
nised that he has riddled the Socialistic
tiger, and devoured the innards of the Lib-
eral lion in the path. How then was a busy
revolver shot to look after 80 suits of clothes
—240 garments in all? A man with fewer
social ambitions might have managed it, if
he had been willing to put in most of his
waking hours with moth balls, clothes pegs,
brushes and cleaning solutions. But Chia
wasn’t that sort of man, or he. would have
been a professional clothes renovator. An-
other way of keeping his herd of duds intact
would have been to wear (say) 20 suits per
day. But that would have made a quick-
change artist of him, and he would have been
forced either to stay at home, or travel round
in a van fitted up as a dressing-room. Then
what in thunder is the use of preserving
suits, anyhow? Last year’s suit is a curio,
and one of the year before is a mild joke,
while anything older is a loud jest. A judge
with a sense of poetical justice would have
told the wretched Chia to go into stony re-
tirement until he had worn every suit in his
wardrobe for one calendar month, and fur-
ther, on liberation, to wear a selection of the
absurdly out-of-date things whilst parading
the Block. Imagine the emotions of a Chia
exposed to the public gaze in a seven-year-
old frock-coat!
The Oldest Inhabitant appears again at
the bar: —
Scott’s Hotel is to be demolished to make way for
an up-to-date pub. On the site was installed one of
the first beer-pumps in Melbourne. In those days it
was called the Lamb Inn, and the Melbourne Club
held its first sprees there. At the side of the Lamb
Inn Edward Jones Brewster sat as Commissioner of
the Court of Requests ; he was the first legal official
of Melbourne. The court-room was a weatherboard
shed which abutted on the right-of-way. After the
Lamb Inn came the Clarendon, which was a big
house for the time. In 1860 one Edward Scott, who
had kept the Port Phillip Club Hotel, a swell squat-
ters’ house in Flinders-strreet, bought the Clarendon,
and for him the house ever since known as “Scott’s”
was built. Mr. Scott died in 1880, when the
house was taken over by the owner, W. C. Wilson,
Who had been an' hotelkeeper in Marlborough. The
Wilsons have land in Queen-street, which it is pro-
posed shall be utilised in connection with the new
building to be erected in Collins-street.
AN EVERYDAY DIFFICULTY.
HE: “You know I find it more difficult than
ever to live on my income .”
SHE: “ Prevailing high prices affect you?"
HE: “Oh, no! You see I have had an in-
crease in my salary .”
“Revareva” in sorrow, from Papua: —
The steamer staggered into Port Moresby this trip,
and, after leaning against the Government wharf, de-
posited thereon a pile of charred and dripping refuse,
representing our eagerly-awaited Australian mail.
Then the inhabitants gathered around the remains
and cursed so volubly that a coral patch in the vicin-
ity turned pink. The usual stereotyped inquiry is
to be held locally, but surely it is up to the Com-
monwealth authorities to explain why the shipping
co. was not required to provide better than match-
board accommodation for subsidised mails. Mean-
while the inhabitants amuse themselves by attempt-
ing to decipher the scraps of literature recovered by
perspiring mail clerks from the mass.
For good old “Spartan t simplicity” com-
mend me to the modern Yank—-and especi-
ally to the Hebrew Yank, or Yebrewhank.
This is from a recent sailing-list of a Lun-
arder: — „ ,
Mrs. O. H. Kahn
and Maid.
Miss Maud Kahn
and Maid.
Miss Margaret Kahn
and Governess.
Master Gilbert Kahn
and Governess.
Master Roger Kahn
and Nurse.
Mr. Eugene Kahn
and Valet
Mr. Julius Kahn
etc., etc.
Bv the time the dog-nurses, the canary-bird
attendants and the chauffeurs and footmen
were reckoned in, the departure of the whole
Kahn family must have looked like a -,oth-
century version of the Exodus.
THE UNFIRM FIRMAMENT.
HE: “What could be better than sitting here side by side under heaven's roof?"
SHE (with an eye to business) : “I'd rather have a Jive- or six-roomed Queen Anne villa
with a good slate or tile roof."
Concerning those dead hospital patients
who were reported to inquiring Melbourne
friends as “quite comfortable, thanks” (B.
8/5/T3). Jonesmith was an
-old Sydney bachelor who spent
his lonely life between club,
office and lodgings. One night,
some club mates were gossiping
together v.hen the name of
Jonesmith suddenly cropped
up. Smith asked casually if
anyone had seen old Jonesmith
lately. Mutual inquiries re-
vealed the fact that Jonesmith
hadn’t been seen by any of his
intimates for a whole week —a
most unusual thing. “Let’s
walk round to his rooms,” sug-
gested Brown. Smith offered
to go with him, and the pair
went off together. A wooden-
faced landlady opened the front
door of the house where the ab-
sent member resided. “Mr.
Jonesmith?” chirped Brown in-
terrogatively. The lady nodded.
“Can we see him?” Up the
stairs —first door,” replied the
wooden-faced one, and retired
swiftly. Brown and Smith
toiled up the stairs and knocked
on the door indicated. There
was no reply, but the visitors
were encouraged to knock again
by the glimmer of a light. Still
no reply. “Push the door,”
prompted Smith, “I’m sure he’s
in.” Brown pushed, as re-
quested, and sure enough,
Smith was right. Jonesmith
was undoubtedly “in.” He was
lying peacefully in his coffin, with a flaring
candle on either side.
The menace to Australia from the dis-
colored crews of ships inward bound gibbered
on the New South IV ales coast last week,
when three vessels were quarantined owing
to outbreaks of small-pox. The first (the
Baralong) landed a coolie fireman smitten
with the disease, and six others took it
while in quarantine. Then a Yankee
schooner arrived at Newcastle, with a viru-
lent outbreak among its crew (natives of
Mauritius), which ended in the death of
one and the seclusion of five others at North
Head (Sydney). Finally, the Brunner,
from the Islands, brought in a case (a
blackboy). It is a peculiar and unsatisfac-
tory coincidence that the E. J. Spence, the
fever ship above referred to, is owned by
the same firm that owned the barque sus-
pected of introducing bubonic plague into
Sydney from Noumea 13 years ago.
* * * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
The current exhibition of S.A. Society of Arts is
fust ordinarv. Hayley Lever is away in England;
H. S. Power, just back, saves himself for a one-man
show; Hans Heysen, up in the Hills, sticks to his
commissioned work; and Will Ashton has left for
Cornwall. A few small things by the last-named are
the only exhibit by any of the great four. The
elder Ashton (James) shows his usual excellent sea-
pieces ; Miss Bosworth provides a few practieally-
perfect flower studies; Edward Davies, local land-
scapes ; and Miss Rose Lowcay, trees that mostly
show European influence. Heysen’s gums and Will
Yshton’s harbors and rivers are both founding a
“school.” Mrs. Gwen Barringer does good and deli-
cate work in the Ilevsen manner. Giles imitates
both. His shipping might be taken for that of Ash-
ton, but his gums are distinguished from those of
Heysen by an excess of vigor which makes them
seem to stand out from the canvas. It is a good
fault, and he should go far. The chief feature of
the present show is a tendency towards figures, gener-
ally portraits. The Hambidge sisters, who have been
too little seen lately, are showing again.. Winifred
Sheard’s Dutch interior is, perhaps, the best of the
others. Mostly the faces tend to be too hard in treat-
ment, and the flesh of dubious tone; but the effort is
a good sign in itself.
“O.K.” —his report:—
The Australian Art Association, now making its
first display at Melbourne Athenaeum Gallery, is prac-
tically puffing the rope of the passing bell for a
moribund Vic. Artists’ Society. The Ass., thus far,
is a combine of eight artists, who have invited eight
brethren and sistern to exhibit likewise, and have
given welcome to two loaned specimens of George
Lambert’s fine workmanship. It is an interesting
show in a wide assortment of styles. Fred McCubbin
is fully represented by his “Old Ship at Williams-
town” (seven) and “Flood Waters,” a new picture.
This latter is a joyous feast of landscape color, with
a rainbow in the sky and all the tints of the rain-
bow, and more, in its poetic glorification of the Too-
rakian district. Purple is the dominant note, and
the whole achievement is thoroughly Turneresque.
On the opposite wall hang 15 pictures by Clewin
Harcourt, lately back from a sojoilrn in Europe. The
much too large portrait group of a pretty mother,
reading fairy tales to her pretty offspring, under a
summer sky, has been exhibited at the Royal Acad-
emy and Paris Salon. But nobody wanted so much
picture* in one, frame. It is boldly conventional,
pleasing in its stiff formality. The posing is too evi-
dent, the faces lack character. Lawrence might have
painted something like it, but the differences would
have been all important. “A Maid in White” is
more satisfactory, whereas the lady in “The Blue
Kjmono” (a praiseworthy painting) is disfig-
ured by the hint of a sty at the corner of
one of her downcast eyelids. Ambrose Pat-
terson’s study of a girl (Edward Dyson’s sis-
ter Hetty was the sitter) in an overshaded
white dress and a blue feathered hat, is clever, but
unconvincing. His head of an old woman is stronger.
Some of his landscapes, notably Nos. 7 and 11, and
“The Beach at St. Kilda” (1), wherein the sea is
lively and the figures are windblown, are taking
little things. His water-color study of Mount Dan-
denong in snow-time is delightful, Patterson being
always at his best in white wintry subjects.
Max Meldrum, another returned wanderer, is for-
cible in his dark green landscapes and appealing in
his portraiture. The little girl leaning on a table is
a striking: example of the art which leaves only a
little more finish to be desired. Face, hair, pose,
pink ribbon round the head—these are all in the way
of being excellent. Yet they stop short of vivid
realism. Edward Officer is fairly successful with his
bright “Waterhole” (9), and quite haooy in “At
Canberra” (11). About the best of McClintock s
20 water-colors is “Sky Effect” (11), and certainly
the best of Mather’s cheerful little lot is “Morning,
Marysville” (4), wherein he cleverly avoids oleo-
graphy. Another of the Marysville pictures, “The
Talbot Drive,” is irritatingly print-like. Walter
Withers, comparatively weak in his biggest canvas,
gets there with his Pastorals, one of them, with
sheep in it (11) being snecially likeable. Among the
“invited” contributors, Norman Carter scores in por-
tions of his “Chintz Sofa.” Howard Ashton has a
rather captivating nocturne called “Electric Lie-ht.
Norman George’s tremendously colored “The Bath-
ing Pool,” shows a tendency to improve on acquaint-
ance, and Web Gilbert’s bronzes deserve honorable
mention. Lastly and chiefly, the two loaned ex-
amples of George Lambert command attention and
challenge criticism. “The Housekeeper” is an exag-
gerated portrait of Mrs. Lambert smiling—not to say
grinning—-nut of the frame, like the frau of an old
Dutch master. The painting of her velveteen blouse
is fine. Everything in the picture is great from a
professional painter’s point of view.
The skill in Lambert’s craftsmanship is undeni-
able, but the artist’s method of subordinating the
nature of his subject to his theatrical art of pre-
senting it, can be fairly expressed by the complaint
that his Housekeeper would almost pass for the por-
trait of a pantomime dame. She seems made-up to
emphasise a simple fact. In his own masterly striv-
ing for older masterly effects, the artist oversteps
the bounds of Nature and arrives at unrealism. His
other work is a haunting picture of a tall, upright
man, standing at full tension with his vest and
under-garments pulled up to his chest, and his pants
lowered almost to the line of impropriety, whilst
a physician puts a stethoscope to his nakedness. Here
there is no exaggeration or touch of theatricalism,
save in the gleaming whiteness of the patient s physi-
cally-cultured torso, which appears lime lighted in
comparison with its shadowed env.ronment. And
only a Lambert would insist upon the strangeness of a
gentleman asking for such an examination without
troubling to take his coat off.
«. * * *
“Lex”: The cabled news that the House
of Lords has laid it down that the Divorce
Court cannot sit in camera has points of in-
terest for Australians. Several notable suits
have been heard in camera here, and at least
one N.S.W. Judge used habitually to go some
distance in that direction by forbidding the
press to publish any evidence of a sky-blue
character. Suits in camera have always
been fairly common in England, and a list
of the well-known folks who have been re-
lieved of each other’s society in this way
would cover many pages of The Bulletin.
Nullity suits have been heard in camera in
about 90 per cent, of cases hitherto; and
there are even instances on record of judicial
separation actions being dealt with in this
way. It is difficult to appreciate the sense
of insisting that (say) nullity suits in
which physical disabilities are charged,
should be heard in open court. For nearly
three-quarters of a century painful events of
this sort have been heard with closed dors,
the legal authority being the Matrimonial
Causes Act. No earthly public benefit is
achieved by changing the old system. _ The
evidence on both sides is mostly of the highly-
qualified and perfectly unbiassed, and there-
fore reliable, medical variety. The publication
of it causes needless humiliation to the par-
ties concerned; and it doesn’t even make
pleasant reading. Altogether it is likely that
no one will benefit much by the change, bar-
ring the ultra-pornographic, and those sheets
which cater for them.
Archbishop Carr has contributed £lOOO
towards the establishment of a Roman
Catholic College within the University of
Melbourne —which may be taken as the
straight tip to the faithful to now go ahead
with the long-postponed enterprise.
HIDDEN FROM SIGHT.
The Liberal party of Australia believes in free-
dom, independence, justise to all and favoritism to
none. It 'believes in liberty, and not in license to
oppress and coerce one’s fellow-beings. It believes
in individual effort and enterprise, and in a desire
to excel. It is opposed to and will work against
wrong-doing in every form. It takes its stand on
freedom and right. —John Forrest , at Bunbury.
AUSTRALIA: " Yes, that's all very fine and
large , but what’s your policy?”
[F. BUTLER, D arling-road, Randwick.]


THE SERENADERS.
(Season ends on the 31st inst.)


If you are
“Run Down”
TAKE
ANgier#mulsioN
Of Chemists, 1 fs, 2/9 and 4/6.
Angier’s Emn'sion promotes appetite, soothes and strengthens the
organs of digestion, overcomes nervous depression and builds up strength.
It is invaluable as a recuperative after illness and in all “rundown”
conditions and wasting diseases. For over twenty years Angier’s Emulsion
has been prescribed by the medical profession and used in the hospitals ;
it is the most perfect and most palatable of all emulsions.
Send for Free Sample ; enclose 4d. postage and mention this paper.
ANGIER CH EM CM- CO., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Don’t run away with the idea
'/?;x
m
ik. >
that “SPARKLETS” are only valu-
able in the summer. For instance,
whiskey is in season from January 1
to December 31, and the best of
whiskey is still better with the
addition of
“SPARKLETS”
TRY IT.
C. Syphons, O/O.
B. Syphons, 4/-
B. Bulbs, I/O dozen.
C. Bulbs, 2/3 dozen.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE SCIENCE OF CURING THINGS.
The cure for sluggish liver.
“Mica”: Papua, with its vast tropical
scrubs and jungles teeming with fungoid growth,
presents a wide and as yet unknown field for the
enterprising mycologist. Some of these fungi assume
peculiar shapes, and their coloring is various. One
fungus is globular in shape, and its surface is cov-
ered with short spines, and resembles a porcupine.
Its color is whitish, and in size it is about as large
as an orange. Another type resembles a wine-glass
in shape and size. Another variety takes the shape
of an ordinary mushroom, but in addition it has a
net-like veil hanging from the outside edge of its
umbrella-like top, and reaching to the bottom of the
stalk. Its color is pure white. Another type grows
like lettuce, and is whitish in color. Many of the
types fall into dust when mature, but others are
hardy and persistent.
“Nym”: Re “Mallarapoonie’s” correction
of my par (B. 13/3/’l3). I don’t think he quite
understood the matter. I dealt entirely with the
tribes I knew, principally Larrakeyahs, Brinkans
and Marranungas. I have spent nearly six years in
the N.T. travelling up and down, but I have never
been more than a hundred miles from the coast, so
I am ignorant of Central Australian niggers and
their ways. I have never known a black to be cir-
cumcised except at sunset, but the customs of, say,
Daly River Bingh s would differ from those of the
Macarthur River blacks, as theirs, in turn, would
differ from the habits of the Wyndham tribes. My
remarks concerning compulsory marriage are exact.
I know several blacks who were forced to marry
their brother’s widows. I had heard that young
bucks were run down and circumcised, as “ ’Poonie”
states, but this was not the case among the tribes
I wrote about. Speaking of “Mai.,” etc., reminds
me of his big yam paragraph (B. 6/2/’ 13). The
only big yams I know' of, on the coast, contain
deadly poisons, and the niggers never eat
them w’ithout at least 12 hours preparation
of the banquet by baking and boiling. I
am acquainted with several cases of poison-
ing where the persons had merely handled the peeled
yams, and then put their fingers in their mouths.
The action of the juice was to burn the throat and
mouth, and cause them to swell to a terrible size,
and to remain swollen for two or three days, thus
making it an impossibilit}' for the sufferer to eat
or drink until the swelling had subsided. In two
cases, w'hen small portions of the yam were swal-
lowed, the sufferers were in danger of death, and
were only saved; by unremitting efforts. I’m speak-
ing now' only of the giant yams of the coast, notably
those of Point. Charles and the Daly River. “Mai-
larapoonie’s” yams may be different.
“C.S.”: Cooma (N.S.W.) goes one better
than Hobart. .Its mournful boneyard of the departed
has a creek thoughtfully separating the Prodistans
from the R.C.’s. When it rains the soakage from
the graves finds its W'ay to the creek, and a mile fur-
ther on trickles through the town, eventually reach-
ing the Murrufnbidgee. With a heavy rain the creek
brings down essence of Old Inhabitant. The latest
fall of rain put four people into the institution. Two
of them died and were hurried along to fill up the
shrinkage in supplies at dead-quarters.
“Johnny Garboo” : April 24 was the anni-
versary of the great Ballarat flood of 1860, when the
Yarrowee Creek, usually a dawdling yellow trickle,
deluged the . central- part of the golden city to a
depth of 9ft., and a fleet of boats navigated Bridge-
street. A channel had to be cut for the escape of*the
W'ater, to avoid the alternative of a lighthouse at
the corner of Humffray and Peel streets and the
publication of “Notices to Mariners” in the local
Courier. The most interesting thing about the Yar-
rowee nowadays is the Alfred Hall, a monument of
municipal snobbery. When Prince Alfred visited
Victoria, Ballarat decided fo give a ball in his honor,
and the Alfred Hall was built for the purpose. The
creek, which now runs betwen heavy bluestone re-
vetments, divided the municipalities of Ballarat and
Ballarat East. Neither would cede to the other the
pride of possessing the hall in which the Prince was
to cut a pigeon-wing. At first the rival factions
had some idea of emulating the judgment of Solo-
mon in re an infant name unknown, and chopping
the hall in two. The difficulty was settled by build-
ing the structure so that it spanned the Yarrawee,
and each municipality possessed half of it. It is
believed that on the night of the ball Alfred danced
four figures of the lancers in Ballarat, and did the
schottische, which was in vogue in those days, in
Ballarat East, but it could never be settled. Pro-
bably he would rather have been “sitting out” in the
Eastern Oval, asking a Ballarat damsel to cut out
“Your Highness,” and call him “Alf.”
* * * *
“Iviken”: Recently got into an irawi at
Kaimari (Papua) furnished with fully 1500 gro-
tesque wicker masks, draped with long rami fibre
skirts which hung from the roof to within 4ft. or
sft. of the floor. This floor, about 150yds. deep by
20ft. wide, was littered with crocodile, pig, dog and
fish skulls. There was just enough room left for a
single pathway down the middle. At another vil-
lage the hovels of the inhabitants all sported bam-
boo skull racks. Some of them held 70 human
skulls, many of them with carved characteristics of
the original owners. It is just recently that the
Baimuro cannibals gave up killing a human being,
a pig and a cassowary whenever they had a new'
canoe to be christened. In 1910, I think it was,
Governor Murray elicited the following from a
“boy” who was being tried for murder in such a
case. “When we kill anyone we get somebody to
bite the victim’s nose off. We bite it off, we do
not cut it off. We killed two women and one man
of another village. We put the bodies in our canoe
and took them to Baimuro. We left them in the canoe
till morning, then they were carried to the plat-
form of our iraw'i; singed, cut up into small pieces,
wrapped in leaves and distributed. Yes, our women
and children are allowed to eat human flesh, but
whoever killed the person cannot partake of this,
unless he sits on a cocoanut with other cocoanuts
under each heel; then he can get his daughter to
boil the heart, and he may drink some of the water
in which it was boiled.”
It seems hard luck to be burnt out by a
flaming cat (“flaming” isn’t profane language, but a
literal report of the cat) ; yet that is what has hap-
pened to a man at Mount Torrens (S.A.). His wife
poured forth kerosene to light the fire under a copper
in a shed. The cat was under the copper, too, and came
out blazing and raving. It made for the haystack,
and stack and shed were both lost. The cat was
extinguished by its collision with the stack, and still
lives, though a certain amount has had to be written
off it for depreciation.
REAL FOOLISHNESS.
MULGA JO (disgusted): "Look at that there
artis' cove — paintin' that blamed ole
tumble down 'umpy , and taki n' no
notice o' Ryan's grand new pub."
“Senior Stripe”: The untutored mind of
the poor immigrant has made him a butt and a
laughing stock —but the educated variety is almost
as bad. Pay attention to the story of Bill, the snake,
and the imported doctor. While gathering sticks for
a picnic fire, Bill was bitten on the leg by a snake.
Without troubling to ascertain whether the snake
was poisonous, Phil, a veterinary student, applied a
tourniquet and cut out the flesh round the tiny fang-
punctures. His knife was sharp and his stroke
generous, with the result that he made an incised
wound of triangular shape and impressive dimen-
sions. Then he rested from his labors on the seventh
day, and sent Jack for a British doctor reputed to
be in the neighborhood, while Bill drank the picnic’s
supply of whisky and awaited the event. Presently,
behold a man running alone. It was the doctor,
making even time to the scene of the tragedy.
Arrived, he looked at the leg. “Snakebite,” said
Bill, sleepily. “Bless me,” said the Royal College
of Physicians and Surgeons, regarding the gash ; “it
must have been —ah—a very large snake!” By the
time it was explained to him that the knife was
responsible for the amplitude of the wound, Bill
had secured further whisky and resigned himself to
Phil’s treatment. “None o’ yer imported doctors for
me,” he said. He recovered —sooner, indeed, than did
the doctor.
BLACKMAIL.
IMP (to bottle merchant): "Give us a tray,
or I'll frighten yer or se."
“Barbwire”: Give me the Outback West
for true sports. Last football season a young ox-
conductor left Charleville with his team for Thy-
lungra station (Bob Philp and Forsyth, owners) to
get loading. When Thylungra was reached rain set
in. This delayed shearing; also it delayed the
bullock puncher. While he was still waiting for
wool, word reached the bull pusher that an inter-
town match was to be played in Charleville. Know-
ing that he would be picked if he was on the spot,
he hopped on his bike and arrived in the afore-
mentioned town the day before the match (Satur-
day), played on Sunday, and started out again for
Thylungra on Monday, travelling 560 miles for the
game. If any suburbanite can beat this I am pre-
pared to forfeit my position as centre three-quarter
in the Waratah team.
“S. S. Severn”: Nosiri, of Hanuabada,
Papua, was coxswain of our departmental whale-
boat, and a dignified, lordly old soul. Three times a
week it was my work to sail across to Jouka, where
the quarantined sick were stored. It was a 10-
miles’ run, and mostly in the teeth of a sou’-easter.
Each excursion Nosiri lined up his colored crew on
the wharf, and, as I appeared, saluted gravely and
said: “Suppose to-day we bin capsize, which one boy
catch hold along you?” Most gravely I would look
along the line and announce a name, which meant that
if we did upset, Mala or Migane, or whoever it might
be, was my official rescuer. One day, Mala’s day,
we turned turtle; but Mala got tangled in the sail,
and every other member of the crew dived for me
and lifted me, not able to swim and cumbered by a
heavy coat, to the surface. Nosiri, astride the over-
turned boat, then proceeded to harangue the mutinous
crowd. “What fashion this?” he howled. “Sina-
bada she talk Mala, and altogether boat’s crew him
catch hold. What fashion this? Behind I makum
you gaol!” I begged them off that time. It was
the least I could do.
“L. Hiss”: There’s something in the
snake-divining instinct (mentioned by “F.H.R.,” B.
10/4/’ 13), but where it is located and how much
there is of it and whether it is entirely reliable, I
can’t suggest. Anyhow, I can swear it’s a useful
article on occasion, and offer two in-
stances in support. Was just going to
drop into bunk one night without inves-
tigation (as usual), when something
tapped me on the instinct and pulled
me up all-standing. My mate glared at
me, and it was a bit shamefacedly I
said, “I’m going to overhaul this varie-
gated bed.” With that I turned one
blanket down, and found a big, Jack
Johnson-colored crawler. Another time
I was well-sinking along Lake Cowal,
where snakes fairly swarmed, in par-
ticular the deadly little yellow or pale
gold devils. One night I was walking
from the tent as usual, without a light,
and suddenly got the wireless message
along the instinct. Quietly I moved
back, lit up, and peered round. And
right where my hoof would have fallen
had I not ceased from treading was a
corpse-producer of the quick-and-certain
variety. I advise anybody who has the snake in-
stinct to preserve it carefully. There are few better
things to have in the family.
“M.0.P.”: It was the Morning After, and
the well-corned sport who had spent the Night Before
to the worst of his ability was suddenly aware of
the gong in the big hotel up North. Rather sur-
prised at having no recollection of hearing the dress-
ing-gong—in fact, having no recollection of any-
thing—he decided, nevertheless, that it was the din-
ing alarm, and started for downstairs. Arrived at
the dining-room door he paused a moment to gain
the necessary stability, he gravely crossed to his seat
and sat down, whilst the Jap. waiter who was put-
ting the finishing touches to the tables looked on
in mild surprise. Then the Prodigal Son carefullv
proceeded to butter the top fold of the fresh-laun-
dered serviette, and after several ineffectual attempts
to eat the same, he boiled over the stupefied Jap.:
“You blank son of a dash crayfish,” he said; “what
sort of bread d’you call this? No wonder the
(blistered) seats are empty!”
SHIPS AUSTRALIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite her name and being more particularly
attached to the southern capital, the Melbourne is an
Australian vessel. — S. M. Herald.
'. i earken to the.little States
-Talking of themselves,
' Writing little histories
•'.For their little shelves.
AIL that’s done within their gates
Find* a record there-r-
Murders, weddings, mysteries.
They’ve no room to spare
For the thought Australian.
When the conquering alien
Comes he’ll vanquish, State by State,
This our heritage.
Queensland will be calling out,
While the battles rage,
, “Come, my lands are desolate,
Help me, help me, Ma.”
Ma will then be falling out
With Victoria.
Selfish beasts mammalian
Are these States Australian.
“See, she's named for Melbourne Town,”
Says the Melbourne man.
Spare our poor apologies,
She’s Australian.
hen our ships the foemen down,
Whose the flag they fly?—
Chanting fierce doxologies,
Ask of them who die:
“Whose brave seamen, sail ye as?”
As one man, “Australia's!’’
Narrow, little, petty States,
Do forget yourselves ;
Take those records blistery
Off your frowsy shelves.
Let the things within your,gates
Stand in second place.
Yours should be the history
Of the lone, white race,
Here, where myriad aliens
Want to be Australians l
N.S.W.
BUSH BILL.


TfIRRfINTS
MELBOURNE.
The BIGGEST & BUSIEST MOTOR HOUSE in Australia.
Enormous Stock of Accessories always on hand.
Builders of the Best Motor Bodies.
MOST UP-TO-DATE REPAIR WORKS.
T
ARRANT MOTORS PTY. LTD
Agents in Victoria for Fiat, F.N., Ford, 8.5. A.,
Mercedes, Rover, Austro-Daimler, Sunbeam,
Adler, Commer, Thornycroft,
• »
104-112 Russell St., and 186-192 Exhibition St., Melbourne.
’Phones—3o3o, 2942, 6280, 5534, 3100.
A
I
Worthless inventions are not wanted but a client
has intimated to us that he is not unfavorably dis-
posed towards meritorious inventions and is per-
pared to purchase the Australian rights of those he
approves. Any proposition must possess a commer-
cial value of from £2O to £lOO and be such as to
afford a ready sale. It may refer to any article of
manufacture and be preferably of a simple char-
acter. Client’s address will be provided upon appli-
cation tp Phillips Ormonde & Co., patent attorneys,
17 Queen StrCet,' Melbourne.* 1
AN EPILEPTIC FIT
A famous London physician, who for y® a^ s .
made a study of this disease, has, after a num
experiments, found a prescription which affor s
lief in almost a marvellous manner. This has
put on the market by Mr. I. W. Nicholl, Pharma
tical Chemist, of Belfast, under the name u
“Ozerine,” and the number of unsolicited testimon
received speak well for its efficiency as a , r ® m
against this appalling disease. Your ohemts
easily get it for you.*
An interesting sidelight on the possibilities
of Oentvalia was given to the Northern Territory
commission silung in Adelaide, by F. B. Wells, who
said that many thousands of acres, too rough for
other stock, are ideal goat country. The late E. C.
Kempe, he said, on Warrana, near Oodnadatta, made
all the station wages out of his goat flock —with
meat thrown in. He bought pure-bred stud bucks,
crossed them with the common goats, “and at the
eighth cross got back to pure Angoras.” Wells, look-
ing forward to big things, suggests slaughtering and
freezing depots along the railway. Market (in Asia)
“unlimited.”
“Fred N.” : “Bill” was anything. He col-
lected bottles when people were looking, and what-
ever he could lay his hands on when they weren’t.
He walked into somebody’s back yard. There was
no one about, and leaning against a shed were a
brand-new shovel and a garden fork. Looking as
innocent as he could under the circumstances, Bill
laid hold of them and made for the gate. Then the
owner turned up. “Wotcher doin’?” he asked, with
fire in his eye. Bill was taken back. “Goin’ ter
ask th' missus fer a gardenin’ job,” he whimpered.
The owner measured him. “Orright,” he said, “I’ll
give you one —wait a minute.” He padlocked the
gate and went inside, appearing a moment later
with a policeman’s helmet on. Bill gaped. “My
trade,” explained the owner of the shovel, pointing
to the helmet. “Now fer that gardening job. Git a
move on.” Bill gave another anxious look round,
and, seeing no hope of escape, sighed loudly, and
commenced. “ ’Ow much ’ave I gotter do ?” he
snarled. “That big bed,” said the other, “first.”
“First!” howled Bill. The boss of the situation
nodded. “Then you start on the other,” he said.
Bill cursed loudly. “That or quod,” grinned the
man in the helmet, as Bill stuck the fork in vici-
ously, “an’ remember, yer don't go till yer done.”
Then he went inside. Bill called for the boss after
two hours’ solid work. “ ’Ow about it?” he asked,
glaring. The owner glanced round, approvingly.
“Now the other bed,” he said, quietly, “an’ mind
them roses.” Bill muttered curses for 20 minutes,
then he stood up suddenly and smiled. Then he
laughed. Later the owner appeared. The garden
was beautifully turned over. “Nearly done?” he
asked, genially. “Nearly,” said Bill, smiling. The
boss looked dazed. “You seem pleased,” he said,
suspiciously. “Pleased I’m done,” said Bill, with a
grin. A few minutes later the boss opened the gate.
“Git!” he said, and Bill did, chuckling. The boss
watched him go. “Cheap work, that,” he remarked,
but he couldn’t understand Bill’s smile. A week
later he did. The one-time flowering garden, pre-
viously a mass of bloom, was now a howling wilder-
ness—a desert —-and a number of other unlovely
things. Bill, an inch or two below the surface, had
quietly ringbarked every blessed tree, plant and
shrub in the place!
“The Snake”: Up where I was recently
the natives have a simple way of rabbiting. When
Bunny has left his burrow, all hands meander round
and place in each hole a hunk of granite. Then they
start to rave over the neighborhood, and call out at
the top of their voices that the Constitution is being
undermined. The startled beasts gallop for home,
and, rushing into the tunnels, brain themselves
against the obstructions. This isn’t true, but it is
the best lie I can think of at the moment.
STARVING.
"Gawd ’elf me y mister, it’s the truth I’m
tellin' yer. I ’aven't ’ad nothin’ to eat
but mushrooms since larst Thursday!"
“Bandmaster”: Before they left for their
villages a few days ago, I searched the flour-
bag portmanteaus of some Bamu River (Papua)
boys, who comprised portion of my team of native
laborers, to see whether they had any gold. In the
biggest, I found some old socks, parts of old torn
trousers, shirts which from time to time I had dis-
carded, two empty beer bottles, some empty meat
and other tins, numerous pieces of glass, a couple
of spoons, a broken knife, half a pick head, a broken
sluice fork, two coffee tins containing broken needles,
pieces of thread, cartridge shells, empty match
boxes, rusty nails, bits of metal, half a packet of
Epsom salts, half a tin of Zambuk, an old tooth-
brush, a set of false teeth, an old hobnailed boot,
several bundles of old papers carefully folded and
bound around with yards of native-made string, a
number of small paper parcels (containing tobacco,
bark for chewing, earth for the teeth, red oxide of
iron for painting the face, and sundries). The sun-
dries were too numerous to mention.
THE IR HONEYMOON.
OVERSEER: “ Hello, Jacky! I didn’t know you had a wife. How long you bin married!"
JACKY (employee): “ Oh , not long, boss. I on'y run her in from the mob lars' week.”
Deer Bully : Ive been reedin yous fer
sum time en i think yer tork sum hoarse sents sum-
times not like sum of them other Rags so i rekon
you wood like me ter tell yer abowt sumthing that
has been wurryn me fer sum time. Yer see its this
way larst nite I wus moochin rownd outside Dolans
pub out our way waitin’ fer Bil maloney ter cum
erlong en wundrin wether id ave ter ave a Jimmy
woodser cause Bils married yer no en carat duck owt
awlways Bils missus carat stand me she says i leed
Bil astray so i carat go neer his caboose but manies
the time ive took Bil home wen he was on his eer.
so at larst Bil cums along en arfter wed ad won he
says cumin rownd ter the meetin rownd the corner
Mick’s goin ter speek hes the labor Candidate well
yer no im pretty keen on polertics cos we spent er
lot er sprats to reed your artickels an thats worth
too beers so yer ken see im keen, well this yer Mick
startid ter tork a lot en i cud pretty well figur owt
wot he menf but at larst he fare sickened me torkin
abowt sumthing he calld the constitchoqshin he
rekond it wus rottin en the peeple cudnt do nuthin
wile ut was like ut was en it wantid alterin en if
ut wasnt altered things ut be pretty rottin en at
larst i got the pip en arsked im wot the Hell ut
mattered to us wether ut was altered or not so long
as we got a fare dinkum go from the bludsukers en
he sed i was fateded en i got wild but strike me
pink i dont no wot they want ter bother abowt a
thing like that for why dont they take ut owt in a
tip dray en bury ut but i supose its won of them
things wot ud be sittin on yer bed watin fer yer
wen yer got home but anniehow i want ter know
wots the good of ut why orl the time at the meetin
Bils mung was chasin fleas en scratchin himself sum-
thin awful now if the constitchoosin cud stop that
ut ed be orl rite cos if thers won thing i hate uts
that en next time Bil en me gos fer er beer no dogs
goin te cum. well so long Bully i supose yerl be
owt agen next week so keep sober. —Yours truly,
Jimmy Aitch.
“Ginger”: The Murray cod is a heavy
feeder. After putting himself outside a couple of
bushels of mussels, he retires for a good, long sleep.
During the progress of his 40 winks the bivalves
open, and when the old bank director awakes, he spits
the shells out, and goes in quest- of another gorge.
It is when the cod is in a state of torpidity that
Binghi (the most indifferently poor fisherman in
Australia) happens along and smites him with his
harpoon. Black Mary is a much better fisher than
Jacky, who is a rank duffer with line and hook.
Writer recently pulled a 401 b. cod out of the ’Bidgee;
opened it and discovered a 61b. perch and 281 b. of
mussels. The cod’s method of digestion resembles
the gohanna’s. That joker, when he gets a bone
twice the size of himself, simply swallows the end
of it, and then dashes the other end furiously
against a tree. By the process of rushing headlong
at the tree, and concussing and rebounding till the
provender is driven into him, he gets there at last.
Then he rests from his labors, because he is so full
of bone that if he labored any more he would burst,
and few things in this world are less useful than a
burst gohanna.
From “P. Mell” :
It is diverting to one who knows something of
London to observe the scandalised tones in which
the local Liberal papers discuss such social attentions
as are paid to Australian Laborites who visit Eng-
land. The Sydney Telegraph, for example, wrote
bitterly last Friday:—
“According to the daily cabled bulletins of Mr. Hol-
man’s comings-in and goings-out his has been a social
progress, and that in high-toned company, culminat-
ing in an entertainment at the Tory Carlton Club.”
The old lady who wrote that knows nothing of Lon-
don—and that it was an old lady—the sour type of
compulsory virgin who seethes with bewildered ex-
asperation at the enthusiasm with which mankind
worships female loveliness, however naughty—l am
willing to bet long odds. If she knew London she
wouldn’t have mixed up the Carlton (where no poli-
tical or other outsider is ever admitted, much less
entertained) and the City Carlton, which is the far
humbler institution that really did Holman honor.
Knowing nothing of London, she would be incapable
of realising that to the cultivated, or best sort of
Britisher, the only apparent difference between Aus-
tralian Liberals and Australian Laborites, taking
them in the mass, lies in the fact that the latter
are the more interesting and intellectually stimulat-
ing, and so on. The modern Londoner of the better-
educated class is a cosmopolitan. He has no use for
the stock gags about Socialism, Conscription, Con-
fiscation, and so forth, which serve as opinions for
the goloshed and bowler-hatted bourgeois, who has
neither the time nor the capacity to think indepen-
dently. He is a delightful companion socially, if
only because it is impossible to shock him. He is
a tireless searcher after new points of view.
If I put it to a local hat-importer that (say) Sir
Gerald Strickland should be dynamited, he would
either heave the blue-mouldy old rebuke “Disloyalist”
at me, or send for the police. Anyhow, our conversa-
tion would end in a storm of wild, purposeless words,
There is a frequent type of Londoner to whom such
a proposition would appeal as absorbing, if for no
other reason than its novelty. The ethical side of the
matter would not agitate him. All that would
deeply concern him would be why I should desire
to utterly destroy an estimable servant of the Em-
pire. It would then be up to me to show cause. If
my arguments appealed to him as in any way sug-
gestive or good, he would be vastly pleased to
listen to me on my pet subject of the advisability
of poisoning all unmarried females over the age, of
40. My- sole offence in his eyes would be futility,
obviousness, ,the vices of the dullard.
W. M. Hughes was a tremendous social success in
London. Why? Because he had something hew to
say, and a bizarre way of saying it. Holman, con-
genital Tory though he is in many respects, has
scores of new things to say, and the most fluent and
attractive manner of saying therm It signifies bo-
ttling to London, or Paris, or ‘Vienna, that he
was once a cabinetmaker, and is not a mem-
ber of any club. He is more desirable as a com-
panion to the better type of leisured citizen of those
towns than the wealthiest sheep-farmer in all Aus-
tralia. This view that “high-toned company” abroad
- —-“perfect gents” so to speak—are prone to prefer
educated Laborites to habitual students of the Syd-
ney dailies, may sound paradoxical; in fact, I don’t
know that there isn’t a dash of heresy in it. But,
like so many paradoxes, and so much heresy, it is
gospel truth.
The “Old Soldier”:—
“Gravelcrusher” (B. 24/4/13) is not what I would
call a tent expert. Ot course, a bell-tent
adapted to resist a gale of wind, if it is
pitched, but did “Gravelcrusher” ever snend
day with three or four others in a bell tent ?
he did, he must have found that not more than 11
or two of them could stand up at the same time i? e
would also have found that it was almost imnosxin!
to move without touching the cloth of the teffi in i
so establishing a chain of drips. Allesreri rUJ™
experience and the “Field Service ReSaSonTTf
the British Army” have no application to the rZ
sent question, simply because the latter are mi it
unsuited to what would be Australian war-conffi
tions. “Gravelcrusher’s” list of the merits of tli
bell tent as compared with others is a little bewU
dering. The only “rectangular” tent he seems tn
know is the Indian E.P. (European Private) which
is a cumbrous but comfortable concern supposed tn
accommodate 16 soldiers with space to spare The
bell tent is a cone 14ft. in diameter at the base
and 10ft. high at the apex. Its internal capacity is
508 cubic ft., and the British army crams 12 to to
men into it, though the Commonwealth only expects it
to hold eight, which is too many, since they onlv
have 63 cubic feet of air each, and the shape of the
tent makes ventilation impossible in the exact ratio
in which it is most weather-proof. The transport
question is quite another affair. It is doubtful
whether any army could carry even bell-tents on an
overland march. On the Commonwealth scale of
eight men to a tent, it would mean more than six
tons of tents for a battalion of 1000 men—three
extra waggons per battalion to be added to the train
of the army. Then “Gravelcrusher” says tents are
cheaper than barracks. Let’s see. A bell-tent to
hold eight men costs £5 at Woolwich Arsenal but'
it will not serve as a residence all the year round
because no one can live and keep his health if lie has
only 63ft. of air space in his bedroom. It is all
very well if the camp is only for a fortnight or three
weeks, but, even then, is it quite certain that no
permanent harm has been done to the youngsters?
Tents for 1000 men cost £625 at Woolwich plus
freight and insurance to Australia. Quite commonly
the camps being usually held about Easter, the
tents are returned into store wet, and are stored in
that state. There is not a sufficient staff employed
to attend to the work of drying and repairing them
Supposing a tent lasts on an average four years'
that would give an annual loss of £156 for every
1000 men in camp. If 20,000 go into camp this
year, that means a dead loss in tents alone of
£3120, which would cover the cost of a fair
amount of barrack building in plain brick or con-
crete. The Australian Defence scheme is shockingly
undermanned. It is built too much on British lines
The whole system is a feeble attempt to copy the
British regular army in equipment, and everything
else except the mode of recruiting. So long as only
small units —battalions and weak brigades—are con-
cerned, no doubs all will be well, but when the
numbers increase, as they will automatically, and
divisions and army-corps have to be dealt with
British precedents will have to be thrown over-
board.
A few years ago the anti-Labor press used
to howl against the idea of entrusting the
job of running the country to horny-handed
laborers, whose ignorance, it was said, was
bound to result in appalling blunders. Now-
adays, when Labor is the educated party, a
different attitude is adopted. In a bitter
article against J. A. Arthur, the brilliant
young barrister who is opposing John Quick
in Bendigo, the Age remarks: —
Seeing Mr. Arthur amid his present allies, one
might ask with the witty Frenchman, “What the
devil is he doing in that gallery?” Mr. Arthur went
from school to college, and graduated there for law.
He never worked with his hands...,. Many electors
of Bendigo will regard with astonishment the classi-
fication of Mr. Arthur as a Labor man. What does
he know of the camaraderie of the butty gang, the
freemasonry of the shovel and the esprit de corps
of the casual job ?
As a matter of fact, Arthur’s father was a
miner, and the son owes his present position
to brains and a capacity for hard work. It
is a sore point with the Fusion that it can’t
attract candidates of the J. A. Arthur and
Frank Brennan type—the young profes-
sional man and University graduate—to
carry its tattered banner. They are natu-
rally not anxious to be seen in company
with a corpse dressed in odd boots, a misfit
hat, pants that won’t match its coat, and a
vest which is totally unconnected with
either.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne.]
A SOCIAL OUTCAST.
BELLA: “ But why can't I marry Antonio!"
DEMETRIUS (the father): “You shall not dis-
grace da family. He sella da oysta from
offa da truck!”
Under three headings the Sun (Sydney)
tells a cabled story of the dire poverty ot
England :
Princess Mary, the only daughter of the King and
Queen, celebrated her 16th birthday yesterday.
The Princess can mend her brothers socles, oaK
dainty things for the tea-table, and occasionally sn
takes a turn at making cheese and butter at ban
ringbam. , .
The Princess has also learnt shorthand and typ ’
writing, and the King sometimes dictates priva
letters to her.
We could have put up with the Princess, the
only daughter of the King and Queen, acti g
as dadda’s private secretary ; but the tnoug
of the Royal Family wearing darned soc
is too much! Oh, hang ever,
thing, it is too horrible !
THOSE REFERENDUM EXPLANATORY
BOOKLETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Mary’s a Federal voter;
It doesn’t depress her a scrap ;
She’ll go to the poll in a motor,
Convoyed by a pleasant young chap;
The grey-covered booklet they gave her
It lies on an elegant chair;
Much trouble and worry ’twill save her—
She’s using the leaves for her hair
(Deep breath.)
It isn’t quite what they intended,
But, though very little she’s read,
Her first blank perplexity’s ended —
She's getting it into her head!
Good girl!
She’s stuffing it into her head!
N.s.w.
E. O’F.


THE TWO VOICES.
It is a difficult job when you come to think of it. The Liberal High Commissioner and the State Agents-General
(mostly Liberals) have to push business in England, by saying that Australia is gloriously prosperous. And the
Liberals in Australia have to say, in order to win the election, that it has been ruined by Andrew Fisher’s policy.
[Device scheme or proposition, by CECIL L. HARTT, c/o THE BULLETIN Office, Sydney. Picture by Livingstone Hopkins (“Hop”)
c/o The Bulletin Office, Sydney, up two stairs. Private address: Raglan-strect, Mosman, Beware of the dog; he is a beast.]


Martin's Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the*
signature, Martin, Chemist. Southampton.*
SKIN DISEASES,
Including Eczema, Pimples, Rashes, Boils, Chilblains,
Ringworm, Shingles, Ulcers, Old Sores, have their
remedy in Rexona, the "Rapid Healer. Sold in trian-
gular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable everywhere.*
AT TIMES UNCONSCIOUS.
“I have been constantly attacked with colic, at
times being unconscious,” writes Mr. Alex. J. Cress-
well, storekeeper, Birregurra (Vic.). “Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy gives me instant relief,
and I would not be without a bottle in the house.
I have recommended it to friends and customers, who
have always obtamed the same results as myself—
immediate relief and cure.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
NURSE LINNDENBERG,
of Perth, West Australia,
writes —
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.—
“As a nurse I have seen CLEMENTS
TONIC DO SO MUCH GOOD AMONGST
MY MANY PATIENTS that I feel it my duty
to make those facts known. I have prescribe
it often, and in every case it has done what
expected of it. It SOOTHES THE PATIEN ,
GIVES SWEET, REFRESHING SLEEP,
CREATES A DESIRE FOR FOOD, and not
only that, it HELPS THE FOOD TO DIGEST.
Patients become bright and cheerful after its
use. As a health restorer I decidedly say
CLEMENTS TONIC HAS NO EQUAL.
“(Signed) NURSE LINNDENBERG.”
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL
CLEMENTS TONIC Get it S get well.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE ENVY OF THE LEFT-BEHTND.
The Federal Government, according to Mr. W. H.
Kelly, has no sympathy with the sybarite. He says:
“The Government swam in champagne at both ends
of the Transcontinental railway. It was estimated
that those two banquets cost £ll,OOO. The banquet
at the christening of Canberra cost £4OOO. The Gee-
long naval college opening cost £lOOO. The course
of the steamer could be traced by the stream of empty
bottles.” (Laughter.)
[Frank Jessup, 52 Renwick-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney.]
A. B. Piddington (of N.S.W.) has taken
silk. Justice Barton, Acting-Chief of the
High Court, made a point of specially con-
gratulating the new K.C., “more feel-
ingly from the fact that you were recently
one of its (the Court’s) members, and re-
signed your Commission under circumstances
which nobody who knows you can doubt
evinced motives of the highest honor and the
most delicate feeling.” It was a long and
involved sentence, but Barton is something
of an elocutionist, and when he threw it
gaily off his chest it went all right.
Garnett Hopkins Thomas, who died last
week, in Sydney, where he was trying to
pick up after a bout with black-water fever,
got in what looks likely to be a good stroke
for the defence of Australia. He was born
in Wales, and, after doing some prospecting
in Queensland, went to Papua, where he
became a partner in a plantation on the
Vailala River. In 1911 he found traces of
petroleum, and later on petroleum gas-vepts.
Afterwards, the Australian Government
bored in, and present prospects look good
for the oil-burning future of Australia’s
ships—to say nothing of Australia’s kit-
chens.
R.G. Archbishop O’Reily was given a big
public testimonial in Adelaide last week for
his “silver jubilee.” Those of his faith at-
tended mass at the Cathedral, after which
came in Governor, Mayor, Judges and
politicians, and military and police offi-
cials, and poured in on him ad-
dresses, complimentary speeches, and a
handsome cheque. He was called one of
the finest all-round scholars in Australia, the
greatest ecclesiastical expert on Church music
in the Commonwealth, a good financier or
State Treasurer lost, and other things.
O’Reily was born in Ireland, was in
Westralia from 1870 to 1888 (he edited the
local Record for some years). Then he be-
came Bishop of Port Augusta (S-A-), and
has been Archbishop of Adelaide since 1895.
And he is only 67 now. It was this arch-
bishop who lately told an inquisitive press-
man that betting has nothing to do, one
way or the other, with Christianity, and that
there is no reason whatever why a man
should not back his fancy if he can afford to
lose.
WHEN GRANNY STRIKES—THE
DALLIANCE.
The daily papers continue to record electioneering
addresses, but still refrain from any editorial expo-
stion of current polities through their leader
columns.
BOTH: “Quick! Such an opportunity of
closer acquaintanceship may not occur again
in a lifetime!”
[TED COLLES, c/o THE BULLETIN. Office, Sydney.]
Died, in his 54th year, Clifton
Bingham, England’s best-known
writer of verses for children’s
storybooks, etc., and for Christmas
and birthday cards. Quite a large
proportion of the drivel in Eng-
land’s very juvenile literature is
by him. He also wrote songs as a
side line. Altogether he wrote
1500 of them, and of the stack
1000 have been set to music.
Amongst them was that pathetic
ballad for full-blown barmaids,
“Love’s Old, Sweet Song.”
The late Chief Justice Darley,
of N.S.W., who considered himself
an aristocrat, once said that mes-
sengers in the public service were
but “menials.” What would he
say if he knew that one of those
menials —the orderly to the Gaud
Mayor of Sydney—had been made
a Justice of the Peace?
A WELCOME.
The president of the Chinese Nationalist Associa-
tion at Sydney considers the Immigration Act should
be mod fled, so that citizens of China may be more
humanely treated.
What s wrong with offering every Chow immi-
grate a quid and a bottle of claret immedi-
ately on arrival.
Of all the retiring Federal members who
are seeking re-election Frank Anstey, of
Victoria, is the only one who is candid
enough to admit he has “no occupation at
present.”
[Clarence John Brown, 86 Glenferrie-road, Kew,
Victoria.]
Two of the maddest men in Melbourne were
sent to gaol last week for trying to sell a
bogus metal as gold to Benjamin Cohen, of
all people under the sun. Some people have
a genius for selecting the wrong mark.
Apropos the death of Henry Parkes, 17
years ago (April 27, 1896), it is forgotten
nowadays that a daughter, Menie Parkes,
published, in 1866, a book of poems, which
she dedicated to her father as “a gift com-
piled from the ravellings of my own uneasy
brain.” The book ran to 123 pages, and
contained 76 pieces.
Died recently at Scarsdale (Vic.) John
Bird, ex-M.L.A. for Grenville. His career
in Parliament was brief and sudden. He
was returned in 1877 by the miners, who
were strong supporters of Berry. Shortly
after the House met, Berry was challenged
by the Opposition, and to the amazement of
everybody Bird crossed the floor. Feeling
ran very high in the electorate, and there
was talk of a heresy hunt. Petitions were
drawn up demanding Bird’s resignation, and
public meetings were held. But he hung on
till next election, when he came down with
a thud. By the way, Bird’s son, Frank, re-
turned from the Boer unpleasantness minus
a leg. When Wonthaggi was established he
started in business there, was elected to the
council in the Labor interest, and is now
mayor of the town.
“Jeames” is Pained :
When will the Sydney daily papers learn to call
titled and other people by their proper names? The
grotesque errors that are made every other week, in
this connection, would shame a village sheet in the
far west of the U.S. The Sydney Telegraph, for ex-
ample, gave a portrait (7/5/’l3) of “Lady Judith
Denman” numbering bank notes. There is no such
person. As the daughter of a Baron she is a mere
Honorable. This is the journal which shocked me
to the marrow on two several occasions last year by
speaking of Lord Dudley’s daughter, Lady Honor
Ward, as “Hon. Miss Ward.” Being the daughter of
an Earl she is not an Hon. The Evening News, the
other night, referred to the late Mrs. Burdekin,
throughout a lengthy screed, as Lady Burdekin. Pre-
sumably the writer saw Dame Burdekin, in some of
the testamentary papers, and thought it signified
that deceased had been a Knight’s widow. The Sun
habitually miscalls the sons of dukes and
marquises, in addition to committing all the
mistakes of its contemporaries. Lord Alfred
Douglas, for example, is mostly termed “Lord
Douglas”—a characteristically Yankee error, as
absurd, in its way as though one addressed Sir
Gerald Strickland as “Sir Strickland.” I am advo-
cating, just now, the establishment of a modest
school where our daily paper editors may be taught
the elements of heraldry. Titles are like figures: if
they are worth printing at all, it is worth getting
them right.
Once more “Jeames” :
I see by the cable that: “A sensation has been
caused in Calcutta through the breaking off of the
marriage of the daughter of the Gaekwar of Baroda
with a brother of the Maharajah of Cooch Behar.”
The sensation is likely to spread to London, where
both families are extremely well known. The Gaek-
war of Baroda is, of course, the stout potentate who,
after doing homage with jaunty unconcern to George
V. at the Delhi Durbhar, turned and walked away
stomach first, instead of backwards. In order to
escape the consequences of this dastardly act he was
driven to explain abjectly that a sudden surge of
frenzied loyalty had temporarily robbed him of his
reason, so that he knew not what he did. This ex-
planation was accepted in the coldly doubting spirit
that one notices in a man who has been refused a
loan of half a crown by a wealthy friend, on the pre-
text that the latter hasn’t a bob on him, or words
to that effect. Still, it saved Baroda the loss of
several guns off his official salute, if not worse. lie
has been suspected of national leanings (or, in other
words, hostility to British rule in India) for years.
Being incredibly wealthy and of lavish habits, he
is a prime favorite in London. The year before last
he became involved in a romance of sorts with a
married Englishwoman; and her husband was dis-
loyal enough to make him co-re. in the ensuing
divorce suit. Baroda promptly returned to India,
and set up the defence that the English Divorce
Court had no jurisdiction over him since he was a
reigning prince. This plea proved a complete suc-
cess, and unless the exasperated husband gets a
chance to assassinate, or at least kick, the Gaekwar,
he has no hope of any other sort of satisfaction. He
is a highly educated sovereign, and speaks Shaks-
peare's tongue, amongst others, like a schoolmaster.
Young Cooch Behar is a son of one of the swiftest
characters and keenest sportsmen that ever came out
of India. Many a time have I waited on ttrs youth
and his brother, the present Maharaiah, when they
were at Oxford about 10 years ago. They were slim,
good-looking boys in those days, consummate horse-
men and polo-plavers, and indistinguishable as re-
gards manners and speech from their associates. Like
their father they were vastly interested in the lad’es
of the musical comedy stage ; and several of the
ladies were equally interested in them, there being
no White England feeling, to speak of, in my native
land. They were deported to India, by their' anxious
relatives, ultimately on the score that they were hit-
ting things up with undue vigor. Yet thev never
so much as approached the form of the ! r father in
this line. He was the original of the colored gentle-
man in A. E. W. Mason’s novel, who is flung down
the stairs of the Savoy Restaurant (London)
by a soldier for striking the white g-'rl who
is with him. The girl was a myriad-toothed
musical comedy star whom Cooch " Behar had
supported for years, and from time to time un-
masked as a faithless frivoller. The incident actually
occurred as Mason describes it. This particular
Cooch Behar kept open house during most of his life
for all Englishmen who came to him with proper
letters of introduction, or other recommendation of
the sort. He provided them with every conceivable
amusement, from auail-shooting to tiger-stalking. He
was one of the late King Edward’s greatest friends,
and only died a couple of years ago.
William Jones, of Marvhoron.n
gets into this page, not so much 1 IC J.
hears the same name as the ex-HUrh U n h °
missioner for Jew Zealand non k g oin '
has just had his 90th birthday hnf aUSe he
because, although he is 90 « ePel ?
Bill Jones, he is still able to wait amed
moulder in a Maryborough foundry k TfV
passes 10 more mdestones and is' S Hll he
moulder in the foundry, this paper win 1 a
Council “ S '“ "“' ‘Si
BEYOND LIBERAL INTELLIGENCE.
The size of Australia constitutes one of the strong-
est arguments against the Referenda proposals.
—Sydney Telegraph.
D.T.: “ Look at the size of it, Joseph! It's
simply disgusting! Why, it's bigger than
Sydney. We’ll have to fight it/"
The Poon Gooey family has sprung off its
pigtail at last, and is “beating it” for China.
The wayfarers comprise Poon Gooey, Mrs!
Poon Gooey, the Poon Gooey babies and
Poon Gooey’s brother, Poon Choy. The Poon
Gooey children, born in Australia, may pos-
sibly return on reaching adult years. But
for their alien mother, marching orders have
been signed and sealed. Wherefore the
family’s passage was booked by the outgoing
China boat of May 7. Geelong, where Poon
Gooey led his needless Chinese existence, en-
tertained him and his brother at a farewell
gathering at the Sailors’ Rest, and coughed
up a framed photograph and a volume of
Holy Writ as souvenirs of the occasion.
If this par. is regarded as having a political cast,
the name and address of the writer is (or are) G.
Innes, 148 Ilotham-street, East Melbourne (Vic.), to
whom the usual remittance may be sent promptly.
ATTORNEY-
GENERAL
WALKER
ORATES
(W.A.).
Whatever is Cohen to happen to loustra-
lia? A Cohen is a legislator in the Ma
State; another Cohen is*' chairman of the
Gas Co., etc., in Sydney; another is presi-
dent of the loustralian Natives’ Associa-
tion (!) ; another is chairman of Melbourne
Trades and Labor Council ( !!), and so on.
Then there is Dear Old Uncle, in London,
and by strange Cohencidence several of him
bear the deathless Bag or the badge of the
Three Balls in Sydney, Melbourne, and else-
where. Clearly, loustralia is Cohen it!
AND WHERE FUTURES GROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Futures do not grow. They have to be built.
—Joseph McCabe.
In the calm of tropic seas, where the heathen lolls
at ease,
There’s a Land where some M.P.’s ought to dwell ;
’Tis the Land Where Futures Grow, therefore suitable
for Joe,
Who directs the Fusion show
With his yell!
Parramatta’s joy and pride should go forth upon the
tide
Towards those isles where ages slide, and the seers
Do not worry over much. There are cocoanuts to
clutch,
And To-morrow, feared as such,
Disappears!
Vain, indeed, must Joseph Cook in this land Aus-
tralian look
For the Future on a hook, ready-made ;
Here the Future has to be built with sweat and
energy,
So I think that Joe should gee
Towards the shade!
And lest Joseph, all alone, should uplift a bitter
groan—
And to add a sort of tone —I propose
That the Hempire’s own Bruce Smith, who is one
of Joseph’s kith,
Should proceed with him forthwith,
Minus clothes!
On that atoll’s distant rim I can well imagine him
Holding forth, whilst maidens slim stand around ;
Bruce indeed would draw a crowd, and would feel
extremely proud,
Whilst the ocean, hushed and cowed,
Stilled its sound !
Towards that Land Where Futures Grow it would
pay to hustle Joe,
If he does not care to go on his own ;
Bruce would also pay a div. if we forced him thus to
live,
With his Fusion relative
On the Throne!
For the folks at home might then toil like strong,
perspiring men,
Whilst those distant gentlemen lolled at ease;
Yea, whilst Bruce upon the shore maundered on with
it empire lore,
And Joe Cook exclaimed, “Encore!”
We could seize
Axe and pick and hammer-shaft—we could yakker,
we could graft;
But just now we’re driven daft with the row
Which the Fusion Concert Co. lifts along with Dis-
mal Joe —
Towards the Land Where Futures Grow
Start him NOW!
[CRANT HERVRY.
c/o Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer-
street, Melbourne. ]


*■*»«.ittJifrMf*' IMMt
S*
w?w
i jH
mu
ly je ,
z 1
1
m-m
mmm
f£»
?* ,• Vt
• *, -
*
V
:• J‘./'
t)
ISH
■'M
**9’
*-v lV '.l A''-J* *'.
$•
vy
. •;.,
Sili
A 5
Hil
'i,:
4rS*s
w
j- .-;■'
■/*-
i
■v.lj
♦ •; JJafc'V.V**, ■*."> eg
y, Ai*V^*»*»-’• Vsriwi J>SH
MM
»«
t h f'v
1
I®l
Vi
& »f»
<«.<4jy
ilwWißß
mill' mi
_/ Wlll)ll!|l
W» ‘
111'"
SSli"
4. R
i -•;
<*HI
uH
W .'.|l;l:
I-44*1 i IMi
M
m
m
m
1
i lii
f if®
«4tti
31%
&. v ss
mi. ill||H|"t^..7csiJH
i lllllli IK.IIVI ‘•“Hl , <l 1 (ll
mm
- -..v
iiilite
‘'■■lT
.....
i ||J|j|tfff.l:ft|
JJjpirH'« ',,<l
m
" :
2QOt
tft\
j£#S
pMllflf
Gowings’ for Men’s Winter Wear.
“ ✓“>.VKRCOAT TIME” is round, and we have made special efforts this year to attain an even higher standard of
( ) perfection. The cut and material of our extensive range of 7000 Overcoats and Raincoats enables us to please the
most stylish and fastidious. Before buying call and see immense stocks to select from. Prices are 255., 305., 355.,
405.. 455., 50s. ’ 555., 605., 635., 705., 755., 80s. and 84s. If you live in the country, or are unable to call, kindly send
us your height, chest measurement, and class of material and overcoat required, and we guarantee to please you. If goods
forwarded are not satisfactory, return, and we will exchange or, if required, return money. All orders carriage paid in Australia.
Winter Hosiery for Winter Wear.
ñvbn
Undervests. Pants to
2/11 per pair.
Fancy Half-hose, in all the latest designs, from 1/6
to 4/6 per pair.
Pyjamas.
Special Value Flannelette Pvjamas—
-4/0; 3 pairs for 13/-
Osman Flannelette Pyjamas—
-5/6; 3 pairs for 15/0
Best Quality Osman Flannelette Pyjamas—
-7/0; 3 pairs or 21/-
Crimean or Cevlon Flannel Pviamas—
-10/0; 3 pairs for 30/-
VICARS’ ALL-WOOL AUSTRALIAN MARRICK-
VILLE FLANNEL PYJAMAS—
-18/0; 3 pairs for 54/-
GOWI NG
Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear,
484, 486. 488 & 490 George Street : and 3,5,
BROS.,
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


WORTHINGTON PUMP COMPANY LTD.
PUMPS-STEAM, AIR or MOTOR DRIVEN, CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
CONDENSERS and COOLING TOWERS. GAS and OIL ENGINES and
GAS PLANTS. MINE VENTILATING FANS, AIR COMPRESSORS.
FEED WATER HEATERS & PURIFIERS. OIL & STEAM SEPARATORS.
For Catalogues and
Information apply—
32 & 34 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
“SISKOL” ROCKDRILLS.
“SISKOL” HAMMERDRILLS.
‘‘SISKOL” COALCUTTERS.
International Channelling Machines Ltd.
DIERCKS & CO. PROP. LTD.,
465 Collins St., Melbourne.
55 York St., Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 4 p.c. 5 p.c. serves. serves.
Mar., 1906.. £41,144 £23,849 £7",644 £9,651 £136,149
4* p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 44,982 26,830 7,644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907.. 48,158 29,811 7,644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907.. 49,943 29,811 7,644 12,488 169,848
Mar., 1908.. 42,3\>5 29,811 7,644 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908.. 49,017 29,811 7,644 11,562 186,260
Mar., 1909.. 59,170 29,811 7,644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Sept., 1909.. 59,390 35,773 9,173 14,444 222,419
Mar., 1910.. 60,564 35,773 9,173 15,618 238,037
Sept., 1910.. 60,392 35,773 9,173 15,446 253,483
Mar., 1911.. 66,815 35,773 9,173 21,869 275,352
Sept., 1911.. 63,053 35,773 9,173 18,107 293,459
Internal reserves disclosed .. 35,000 328,459
Mar., 1912.. 77,104 35,773 9,173 32,158 360,617
Internal reserves disclosed .. 25,000 385,617
Sept., 1912.. 78,742 35,773 9,173 33,796 419,413
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1913.. 84,232 41,735 10,702 31,795 451,208
So the div. for pref. and ordinary shares alike
has been pushed up to 7 p.c. ; and that means some-
thing. Under the “arrangement’’ sanctioned in 1893
pref. shares are entitled to a prior 5 p.c. as a per-
manent thing; but as soon as they have had 10 half-
yearly divs. of 7 p.c. or more, their preference as to
capital ceases —which means that in the event of
winding-up they don’t get in ahead of ordinaries.
This paper confesses that it didn’t expect the
National to do as well as it has done. And it
shouldn’t have done so well, either. For instance,
when it first jumped its dividend' up to 6 p.c., which
absorbed nearly £45,000, there was only £14,444
left over to put to reserves; and at that time the re-
serves were less than one-seventh of the capital. If
the slump had come sooner the bank would most
likely have had to crawl back. As it was, it put on
a bold front and sailed through. The more confidence
it showed in itself the more it got from the public.
Thus, whereas at March, 1906, deposits other than
Government money totalled £6,276,426, they now
amount to £9,705,856, or an increase of 50 p.c.
And while it got so much more of the public’s money
to trade with, there is good reason to believe that
the quality of its assets greatly improved. A few
years back it was regarded as a weak feature that the
National had still a lot of the old boom stuff on its
hands. As things have turned out, it was really an
advantage that it didn’t hurry realisations along,
because the new boom arrived, and the management
had a chance to get out at prices which would have
been laughed at a few years before. Hence the re-
cent disclosure of internal reserves, made up of profits
hoarded up to cover expected losses which didn’t ma-
terialise owing to the new boom. The management may
have been long-headed enough to see that extra-good
seasons and prices were coming, and that big State
borrowings would further inflate prices, or it may
just have chanced it and trusted to luck. In any
case, The Bulletin admires the results, if it still
has some doubts about the policy. And the National
might have shown still gaudier results for the past
year if it hadn’t written £5OOO off premises, given
£2OOO to the officers’ provident fund, and tacked
£7400 as a bonus on to salaries.
The figures have changed pretty much in the past
year:—-
Liabilities.
Mar., 1912. Mar., 1913.
Notes .. .. £64,056 £46,529 Dec. £17,527
Bills, etc 1,184,234 1,010,265 Dec. 173.969
Free deposits .. 4.782,239 4,074.674 Dec. 707.565
Deposits at interest 6,610,374 6,373,955 Dec. 236,419
Liquid assets .. 4,fi«B, E 192 4,264,241 Dec. 263,951
Advances .. .. 9,577.2-’5 8,818,171 Dec. 759,054
Premises, etc. .. 446,270 439.278 Dec. 6,992
They are not cheerful figures, taking them all round.
The bank may have got in £795,054 of advances
without causing discomfort, but it isn’t probable.
Still, what was it to do? Its deposits were shrink-
ing—they have shrunk by close on to £1,000,000
and it previously was holding far too little coin,
etc., in proportion to its liabilities. In other words,
it was apparently relying on a continued growth of
deposits, and wasn’t holding itself in a position to
even maintain its advances, let alone give probably
much-needed further assistance in case of a re-
action—the re-action which has come. From the
point of view of its own safety, it has no doubt
done the right thing now; for even with the re-
duced advances its liquid assets are no more than
37 p.c. of its liabilities.
Judging by the profit earned on capital and re-
serves combined, there doesn’t seem much wrong
with the assets nowadays:—
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Sept., 1909 £6 19 3 p.c. Sept., 1911 £7 2 2 p.c.
Mar., 1910 7 0 8 „ Mar., 1912 8 12 2 „
Sept., 1910 6 19 1 „ Sept., 1912 8 9 5 „
Mar., 1911 7 12 6 „ Mar., 1913 8 15 8 „
Still, that isn’t much of a test; most Melbourne
banks thought they were making a lot more than that
just before the boom broke in the early ’9o’s ; yet,
Heaven knows, their assets were over-valued enough.
From the depositors’ point of view the strength of
this bank lies in its big capital (for every £1 of its
own funds it owes less than £6 to the public) ; the
comparative weakness from the shareholders’ point
of view lies in the fact that there is still less than
£1 of reserves to protect £3 of capital. Having
got to 7 p.c., divs. should now be sat on hard for
many years to come in order to strengthen those re-
serves enormously.
* * * *
The Colonial Bank of Australasia
(Melbourne) :
Divs. on To Re- Re-
Profics. All Shares. serves, serves.
Mar., 1905.. £19,320 5 p.c. = £10,967 £8,353 £78,436
“ ept., 1905.. 18,314 5 „ „ 10.977 7,337 85,773
Mar., 1906.. 19,405 5 ~ ~ 10,982 8,423 94,196
Sept., 1906.. 19,578 6 ~ ~ 13,178 6,400 100,596
Mar., 1907.. 22,086 6 ~ ~ 33.178 8,908 109.504
Sept., 1907.. 19,532 6 „ ~ 13,178 6,354 115,858
Mar., 1908.. 23.205 6 ~ ~ 13.178 10,027 125,885
£23.501 6 .. ~ 13,178')
Sept., 1908.. -( Voted for Provident r 323 126,208
( Fund, £lO,OOO )
Mar , 1909.. 22,710 7 p.c. = 15,375 7,335 133,543
Sept., 1909.. 19,293 7 „ „ 15.375 3,918 137,461
Mar., 1910 . 23,417 7 ~ „ 15,375 8,042 145,503
Sept., 1910.. 23,509 7 „ ~ 15,375 8.134 153,637
Mar., 1911.. 23,708 7 „ „ 15,375 8,333 161,970
Sept., 1911.. 24,626 7 „ ~ 15,375 9,251 171,221
Mar., 1912.. 27,864 7 „ „ 15,375 12,489 183,710
Sept., 1912.. 27,932 7 ~ „ 15.375 12,557 196,267
f 28.002 7 ~ „ 15,375 V
Mar., 1913.. 5 Written off Bank Pre- > 7,625 203,894
( mises, £5OOO }
This bank saw trouble coming a good while ago, and
began to fasten down the hatches and generally pre-
pare for the storm. The rapid growth of the im-
ports, the actual shrinkage of the exports, and the
decline of gold production hurried the process along,
and the management moved all the faster when
drought looked in last year. As a matter of fact,
though the live-stock losses were serious and the wool
clip must presently suffer in consequence, things
weren’t so disastrous as they threatened to be. Never-
theless, the Colonial didn’t turn over and forget all
about the warning. It went on urging its clients
to reduce their stocks and generally make things
ship-shape. The results are shown hereunder: —
Mar.,’l2. Mar.,’l3.
Notes in circulation .. £27,758 £22,054 Dec. £5,704
Bids in circulation, etc. 416,530 311,827 Dec. 104,703
Free deposits . .. 1,721.380 1,687,364 Dec. 34,n16
Deposits at interest .. 2,436,293 2,404,689 Dec. 31,604
Liquid assets .. .. 1,839,733 2,031,016 Inc. 191,283
Advances .. .. 3,190,979 2,851,559 Dec. 339,420
Premises, etc. .. .. 210,615 202,909 Dec.' 7,706
Deposits haven’t suffered much ; in fact, apart from
Government money, the Colonial actually holds a few
thousands more than it did 12 months ago. But as
a solid wad of the advances has been got in, it fol-
lows that the cash position is far stronger than it
was—far stronger, in fact, than it has been for many
years past. No less than 46 p.c. of deposits and all
other liabilities are now held liquid. The position
from this point of view is, therefore, excellent —and
it is all the better if the money has been called in
without causing trouble to the people who had bor-
rowed it when things were booming and prices were
high. Anyway, it means now that, if there is any
drain of deposits, the bank can meet it without put-
ting the screw on at a time when the screw is liable
to be most disastrous. As to that drain of deposits,
though it is quite possible there will be some, there
is no reason to expect that there will be any serious
flow either from this bank or from the banks as a
whole. The position isn’t a bit like it was 21 years
ago, when the banks were bulging with foreign de-
posits, which were recalled by the million at almost
the first sign of trouble. So far as the banks are
concerned, Australia has been working almost wholly
on its own money this time. And it isn’t likely to
take its money from banks that have kept their
heads in order to bury it in a hole in the garden.
The next table shows that the Colonial’s earnings
calculated on capital and reserves combined have
been moving downwards of late:—
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Sept., 1909 £6 14 Bp.c.(Sept., 1911 £8 3 10 p.c.
Mar., 1910 8 2 4 „ Mar., 1912 9 2 6 „
Sept., 1910 8 0 9 „ Sept., 1912 8 19 4 „
Mar., 1911 8 0 0,, Mar., 1913 8 16 3 „
Low earnings may mean that among the assets there
are those that are over-valued and others, like the de-
s rable suburban building lot, that are bringing in
nothing but tax notices. But the reduction in this
case is satisfactorily explained by the fact that the
bank has been hoarding up more cash and liquid
assets. And though that means smaller earnings for
the moment, it will pay in the long run. There is
some fine, safe business to be done now at most pro-
fitable rates, and there will perhaps be more to be
done presently ; and the bank that has the money to
do it with is the one that will make profits and at-
tract accounts—some of the latter, no doubt, from
banks that are compelled to say they are very sorry,
but they can’t oblige—good day!
When the tide turns again, and money can be got
more easily, the Colonial ought to jump at its first
chance to increase its own capital. At present its
funds amount to £643,175, and it owes the public
£4,425.934, and that is just about as much as a
bank ought to owe on those figures—-approximately
£7 for every £1 of its own.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Reserves
(not in-
cluding
£500,0n0
Depre-
To Re- ciation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
Mar., 1905.. £155,322 15 p.c. = £164,705 £414,033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 ~ „ 109,965 £2,378 416,411
Mar., 1906.. 112,042 10 „ ~ 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept., 1906.. 111,679 10 „ ~ 110,(00 1,679 420,132
Mar., 1907.. 110,827 JO „ ~ 110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907.. 118,057 10 „ ~ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., 1908.. 134,782 10 p.c. = 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept., 1908.. 146,493 10 „ ~ 124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised .. 36,369
Mar., 1909.. 162,632 10 p.c.= 142,500 20,132 56.501
Sept., 1909.. 168,881 10 „ „ 142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., 1910.. 175,590 10 „ ~ 142,500 33,090 115,972
5ept.,1910.. 196,714 10 ~ „ 142,500 54,214 170,186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised .. 20,186
Mar., 1911.. 207,428 10p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept., 1911.. 210,830 11 „ „ 165,000 45.830 123,444
Mar., 1912.. 225,601 12* „ ~ 187,500 38,101 161,545
5ept.,1912.. 229,629 12* „ „ 187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar., 1913.. 233,530 12* „ ~ 187,500 46,030 249,704
The profits earned are net. How much more was
made and written off ostensibly to cover depreciation
this paper doesn’t know. In past times it has been
again and again shown that when the co. wanted to
shake out a few thousands it had no difficulty in
doing so. An extra £lOO,OOO could easily be put
into properties, plant, etc., without anybody noticing
the fact. The only certain thing is that, on the co.’s
own figures, the business is far more profitable than
it was, say, six years ago. As at March, 1907, the
profit was £110,827, and the capital was £2,200,000.
That is, the capital was earning about £lO os. Id.
p.c. p.a. Since then £225,000 of capital has been
got in (the £575,000 of capitalised reserves don’t
of course, count—they were in the business already).
The profit is now £233,530 for the half-year, or at
the rate of £l9 ss. 2d. p.c. p.a. “The whole posi-
tion is so uncertain,” the chairman told the share-
holders the other day, “that we have no additions to
our plant in view, and we have not yet seen our way
to make engagements with the Queensland growers
for the renewal of contracts that expire at the end
of this year.” If the position is uncertain, who is
to blame for it? The co., as shown above, hasn’t
been satisfied with a fair thing. Most people have
done a bit better lately than they did six years ago,
and if this co. had done only a bit better no serious
complaint would be justified. But for a co. which
has secured a practical monopoly of the Australian
sugar business to use that position in order to squeeze
out a profit of £l9 ss. 2d. p.c. p.a. as against
£lO os. Id. six years ago seems a good deal like
looking for trouble. And with such figures before
the people, trouble is going to continue. “In N. S.
Wales,” says the chairman, “there has been a falling-
off in the area planted. This is one of the conse-
quences of the attempt on the part of the Common-
wealth Government to force upon the farmers a con-
siderable advance in the rate of wages, together with
a reduction of the hours.” That, obviously, is only
half the truth, and the less important half. The
fact that less cane is planted follows from the re-
fusal of the co. —the only buyer—to give the farmers
a price which will allow them to pay their help what
the Legislature says should be paid ; and the prodi-
gious and unreasonable rise in the already solid pro-
fit of the co. shows that the co. could have paid the
farmers a better price. Things like this are not
going to appeal only to the Labor party. It is just
as well for investors to remember that it was the
other party which in 1906 passed the first Anti-
Trust Act, and strengthened it by two subsequent
Amending Acts; also it is just as well for them to
remember that it was the “Liberal” Attorney-General
Glynn who first suggested an amendment of the Con-
stitution to allow of a still further strengthening of
the anti-monopoly law; also that it was an Attorney-
General of the same anti-Labor party who recom-
mended the first prosecution under the existing anti-
Trust law. These facts ought to satisfy the foolish
people who think that the anti-Trust agitation is a
Labor-party agitation. With the next swing of the
pendulum "the Liberals will be in power, and Glynn,
the man who suggested the amendment of the Con-
stitution and the first prosecution, will probably be
Attorney-General again (he is one of the few mem-
bers of the House of Reps, who have been elected
unopposed) ; and what he suggested and recom-
mended before he is likely to suggest and recommend
again. That means almost inevitably that, if the
people vote “No” this time, the next or second-next
Referendum will be carried through by the Liberals
—and the vote will in that case be “Yes.” There
were thousands of stupid people who persisted in re-
garding Sydney Gas shares as the most gilt-edged of
securities. The law', they said, wouldn t touch that
co Those who weren’t "blinded knew that the law
would touch it sooner or later. There are thousands
of stupid people who think the same of the Sugar Co.
They will only have to wait to see the same inevitable
result in that case.
[S. 11. Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney—in
case this is politics.]
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., Syd-
ney:—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1905.. £46,964 B p.c. = £36,000 £10,964 £168,476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8 ~ ~ 36,000 1.394 169,870
Mar., 1906.. 46,532 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,532 180,402
Sept., 1906.. 35,286 8 ~ ~ 30,000 2,286 182,688
Mar., 1907.. 45,156 8 ~ ~ 36,000 9,156 191,844,.
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 ~ ~ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 ~ ~ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Sept., 19<’8.. 62,904 10 ~ „ 45,000 17,904 248,708
Mar., 1909.. 75,372 10 ~ ~ 45,000 30,372 279,080
Sept., 1009.. 64,123 10 „ ~ 45,000 19,123 2|fe2o3
Mar., 1910.. 78,382 10 ~ ~ 45,000 33,382 331,585
Sept., 1910.. 71,330 10 ~ ~ 45,000 26,330 357,915
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. .. 257,915
Mar., 1911.. 107,833 10 p.c. = 50,000 57,833 315,748
Sept., 1911.. 99,732 10 ~ „ 50,000 49,732 305,480
Mar., 1912.. 124,403 10 ~ ~ 50,000 74,403 439,883
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. .. 339,883
Sept., 1912.. 95,303 10p.c.= 55,000 40,303 380,186
Assets written up, £350,000 .. .. .. 730,186
Reserves transferred to Capital, £550,000 .. 180,186
r * -
Ord. Pref.
(10 p.c.) (6 p.c.)
Mar., 1913.. 86,126 55,000 16,500 14,626 194,812
The reserves mentioned in that last line include
£15,000 for depreciation of properties and securi-
ties ; probably that amount should be written off.
After looking hard at the table the Cold Tea party
in N. S. Wales will perhaps wonder whether it has
been much of a success. It won’t get a
great deal of comfort either out of the know-
ledge that it has been less of a success even
than this old-established beer co. expected it
to be. George Judah Cohen is chairman of
Tooth’s, and that wise old financier plays for
safety. He and the others with him didn’t know
quite how hard Cold Tea might hit, so while profits
went on growing they stuffed a whole lot into new
premises, plant, etc., that they might be better
prepared for the dry day when it came. As a matter
of fact, it didn’t come to any extent worth men-
tioning. A few pubs in a few districts were shut,
and the beer-drinker had a bigger thirst when he had
to walk two blocks instead of one, so he had two
drinks instead of the one he used to have. And
while the output of beer has suffered, it is doubt-
ful whether the aggregate value of pub property isn’t
greater now than it was before any licenses were can-
celled or marked down for cancellation. Recognising
these things, the directors thought the time was ripe
to drop a few of the withheld plums into the share-
holder’s mouth. Following two preliminary flips, the
directors during the half-year handed over £550,000
in 6 p.c. cumulative pref. shares —£200,000 out of
visible reserves; £350,000 by writing up the big
brewery, on which, as mentioned above, large
amounts of written-off profit had been spent during
the last few years. Why 6 p.c. cum. pref. shares
were issued isn’t clear. Perhaps the directors wanted
to provide for the poor widow and the aged investor
a very gilt-edged security with still a scent of hops
about it. The issue answers this purpose admirably.
With the ordinary shares there is no doubt some risk.
The Cold Tea party has been a bad failure so far ;
but if it can strike some day when the public feels
sick and sorry, after an orgy such as it has had
lately, there is no telling what the party may not do.
The shareholder in Tooth’s may, however, comfort
himself with the thought that the co. has put itself
in a good position to meet trouble when it comes.
This is how the map has changed in 10 years:—
1903. 1913.
Liabilities £31,751 £54,334
Assets.
Breweries and properties .. 650,269 1,201,162
Book debts . . .. .. 225,608 227,531
Stock 78,270 164,153
Liquid assets .. .. .. 164,079 387,799
No fresh capital has been got in during that decade,
and, as shown above, practically no debts have been
incurred; consequently the £550,893 of property
additions, and the £85,883 of extra stock, and the
£223,720 of liquid assets and the other trifles have
all come out of the 10 years’ profits, in addition to
those that have been divided among shareholders.
The Sun Newspaper, Ltd. (Sydney),
which bought the assets of the Australian Newspaper
Co. in March, 1910, for £28,000, or £3132 less
than they were then alleged to be worth: —
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1910.. £3132
1911.. £2063 Nil £B5B 211
Share premiums .. £5773 5.184
Profit.
1912.. 3109 Nil 2042 1067 7051
1913.. 3795 Nil 7273 3573
Apparently the co. has not yet decided how it should
present its accounts; anyway, the form has varied
every year. The sooner it can make up its mind
on this point the sooner will confusion and doubt
vanish. The co. started, as mentioned above, with a
nominal reserve of £3132, representing the differ-
ence between what it paid for the outfit and what the
outfit was valued at. Of that £3132 a total of
£2921 was mopped up in preliminary exes., and in
losses on trading during the first few months. At
the end of the year there was a Depreciation Fund of
£2ll, apparently the balance of the nominal reserve
with which the co. started. Next year, that fund
disappeared, and is shown in the table as written off
along with £lB3l which was Visibly appropriated
for depreciation. The capital at the end of the first
year was £28,000, less a few pounds of unpaid calls,
etc., and at the same time there were £20,500 of
debentures and £18,500 of a mortgage debt. In
the next year the capital was increased to £48,000,
and £5773 was shown as share premium reserve.
In the next accounts —those just issued—this reserve
has disappeared. The accounts don’t show where it
has gone, but the directors explain that it has been
“devoted towards the initial outlay and in the estab-
lishment of a new cable service.” As one way out
of the difficulty the table shows it as written off —
though the table only does it with hesitation. With
the arrival of the new capital beforementioned the de-
benture debt was shifted and £2500 was also lopped
off the mortgage debt. Last year another £14,993
of capital was got in; but most of that was wanted
for trading requirements. Here are the figures brought
into a few lines: —
1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital .. .. £24,950 £48,000 £62,993
Liabilities . . . . 44,334 18,054 18,414
Freehold . . . . 21,277 21,284 23,298
Plant . . . . 36,238 36,604 34,037
Stock .. .. 4.958 3,854 7.301
Book debts.. .. 6,825 11,422 17,918
Cash, etc 1,056 1,772 2,424
It is early yet to pronhesy: a practically-new naper
takes a lot of organising, and is a sink for money.
If, for instance, the cost of establish,. «
cable service was charged against the " ew
revenue, a loss of £3478, instead of - vear ’ s
£2295, would be disclosed. But Pr< ? fit of
the outlay on this and other things ought- \ °u ot
fruit presently. The great thing is thafnJ 0 bear
have got a circulation—the work-I-dav Sm* 7 pers
to average 53,000 and the Sabbath hvL- N 18 al ' e £ed
If the co. can hold a circulation as well asm d3;SOO-
- to be a fine thing ahead of the sharehnlH*’ there
there isn’t, the management will be tnH l „ M
co. has the great thing in its favor Jn£L llr The
goodwill capital to earn dividends for n™!, ? , no
with the Hkrald and Weekly Times thf } , that
bourne, which has a capital of £250 non’ ° f el '
than £198,000 of which is represented’bv 0 ’ n °, less
That goodwill represents (ostensibW at y fl f odwill
value earned by expenditure y t , r ?. te )
ing the papers. The Sydney co. which can ®5 abllah-
dilation of over 50,000 for a daily pane? clr ‘
100,000 for a Sunday edition, has no cause over
then, over having to pass the first few years
a dividend. It is mightv lucky indeed t A h w , ut
capita\ h ° Ut dr ° pping a con B> ( lerable oft
* * *
Perkins and Co., .*td., brewers, etc of
'Queensland, who some years ago transferred £iV
of reserves to capital (in the following table the Z
is calculated on the original amount, and the £4l
is included with the reserves) : ,1 ’ be 7
_ , Dividends and Added to
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves , P ?
1901.. £26,165 16* p.c. —£10,208 £l5 95;' P( ?:
1902.. 28,496 18* „ „ 11,229 17 267 ' t
1903.. 26,565 23* „ ~ 14990 10’, -o .“1’532
1904.. 23,435 25* ” ” \lfn ft**
1905.. 26,236 34 „ „ 21,000 5 236 m^l
1906.. 25,697 40 „ „ 24,500 1197 { £’“®
1907.. 25,350 34 „ „ 21,000 4 350 jM
1908.. 25,22$ 34 „ ~ 21,000 4,223 loao™
1909.. 25,572 34 „ 21, 000 4 572
1910.. 27,215 34 „ „ 21,000 625 137 m
1911 24,701 34 „ „ 21,0(i0 3,701 ’!
1912.. 24,630 34 „ „ 21,000 3,630 145 oil
Premiums on new shares, .. 11 m 1
1913.. 22,516 21* p.c. = 14,138 jffJJ
During the past year £33,333 of capital was got in
(44,444 shares fully paid to 155.), shareholders taking
them up at a premium of ss. The capital is now
£133,333 in 177,778 shares of 15s„ though there
was £2311 still unpaid on Feb. 28. The old Per
kins Co., like most others in Queensland, made a
mess of it during the great loan drunk ; and while it
was sitting nursing its head and telling itself that
all was vanity and vexation of spirit, the present co
arrived and took over the outfit at a dirt-cheap price’
Things, of course, weren’t so bad as the people who
were suffering the recovery thought; and tasty divi
dends soon began to be served out. Profits reached
high-water mark in 1909-10 ; then arrived more seri-
ous competition than the co. had been bothered with
and some sharp fighting followed. Too much was
being paid away in dividends ; and when higher costs
came on top of the more serious competition, the
directors realised that they would have to take a
pull. Still, even on the watered capital the divi-
dend for the past year is equal to 15 p.c., and there
is nothing very mournful about that. And even then
while the div. amounts to £14,138, the lay-by is no
less than £8378. In 1906, when the div. was
£24,500, the lay-by was a wretched £1197. Had
the co. kept more in hand, it might have been able
to provide for the outlay required by the growth of
the business out of reserves ; but that chance was let
slip, and the keener competition lately necessitated
a big outlay in a lump. Hence the new issue of
capital, practically the whole of which has gone in
new brewery premises and plant. In the circum-
stances the new capital is probably not enough; any-
way, the liabilities have gone on growing, and now
amount to £65,108. This shows the movement of
that and other items:—
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities .. .. £12,492 £25,622 £58,670 £65,108
Freeholds, plant, etc... 64,679 108,957 136,644 166 013
Stocks 32,301 41,738 41,718 61,961
Loans, book debts, etc. 31,324 71,364 88,968 90,689
Cash balances .. .. 5,934 10,118 5,225 8,939
Profits on sales, etc. .. 36,135 40,410 40,490
General expenses .. 11,731 11,517 15,553 17,702
“The beer industry is not what it was a few years
ago,’’ the directors say plaintively. Well, there are
plenty of Australian brewery accounts which show
that it is a lot better. And if this particular co.’s
business isn't as good as it was, or as the directors
thought it was, the directors had better take them-
selves into a quiet place and ask themselves who is
to blame.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which was
formed early in 1910 to take over the A.B.C. cate,
and began with £17,965 of its capital represented
by goodwill, which, of course, is a purely paper
asset: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Apr., 1910.. £17,965
Fept., 1910.. £2347 6 p.c. =£loso £423 17,096
Mar., 1911.. 3384 8 „ „ 1400 228 1 5,340
Sept., 1911.. 3861 10 „ „ 1750 .’5-; 13,782
Mar, 1912.. 3461 10 ~ ~ 1750 439 12,510
Sept., 1912.. 3296 10 ~ ~ 1750 228 11,192
Mar., 1913.. 244 4 8 ~ ~ 1400 228 10,376
When this co. was formed The Bulletin had some-
thing to say about goodwill and leaseholds. The
capital was £35,000, of which no less than £17,965
was represented by goodwill ; and goodwill in this
case consisted of nothing more than the hab.t various
people had of dropping into the two A.B C. cate to
tear their food. Both of these cafSs were leaseholds, and
both leases had very nearly run out. One, it was
presently admitted, wasn’t worth renewing; the
other, the king-pin of the business, has just been
wrestled with. And what The Bulletin expected
would happen has happened. “With regard to the
premises at headquarters the directors have arranged
for an extension of the lease of this and adjoin.ng
properties for a further 21 years, subject to certain
conditions, among which is one to expend a consider-
able sum in additions and improvements... .To do
this will necessitate the earmarking of at least £lOOO
regularly each half-year.” In other words, there was
mighty little goodwill really attaching to the old
lease ; nevertheless, the shareholders paid the vendors
£17,965 for it out of capital, and now they have
got to pay still more to the landlord for practically
the same thing out of profits. It could be done com-
fortably, no doubt, if every competitor was on the
same footing. But the Civil Service and Farmer’s,
for instance, both within a stone’s throw, have evi-
dently' argued this way: “Out of this feeding busi-
ness the A.B.C. has to make profit enough to pay
dividends on a lot of capital represented onty by
paper. We can run the same line, and won t have
to earn interest on anything but the money actually
put into the business.” That sort of competition is
dangerous. When there is enough trade for all, the
figures come out all right, but when trade falls off,
and it is a question of fighting for what there is,
obviously, other things being equal, the one without
a load of paper-capital on his back has the advan-
tage. Certainly, the £lOOO a half-year wont neces-
sarily reduce profits that much below their pr<-sen
level. The improvements should earn something-
But what they will earn is as yet doubtful. Mean-
time, the co. isn’t in much of a position to face tn
heavy expenditure which is foreshadowed. It ha-
been putting cash into a new bakehouse, etc., a
this is how the position has changed so far as hqu
assets and liabilities are concerned: —
Assets. „ .
Sept., March, Sept., March,
1911. 1912. 1912 WS-
Cash and Book Debts.. £10,109 £9128 £7131 £->
Liabilities. .
Sundry creditors, etc... 3,433 3891 4-48 1
Surplus .. £6,676 £5237 £i?B3
Deficiency .. ’


In Choosing an Executor
it is most important to look for
EXPERT KNOWLEDGE, SECURITY AND
ECONOMICAL MANAGEMENT.
These can best be obtained by appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited).
It has been established 26 years, and has
administered thousands of estates.
The Security is Undoubted, and
the Charges Fixed and Low.
Write for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
TRUST FUNDS TO LEND ON APPROVED
SECURITIES AT FROM 5 PER CENT.
Suction Gas Plants
Gas, Petrol, Oil Engines
SIMPLICITY. RELIABILITY.
KYNOCH LTD.,
Melbourne.
Adelaide.
Perth.
Sydney.
Brisbane.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating. Re-
inforced Concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
In all smithing work high-class iron can be more
safely manipulated at varying temperatures than
steel or ordinary iron. It is for this reason that
Best Yorkshire Farnley Iron is preferred by engi-
neers, where toughness, great strength and close
grain are needed. Whatever the specification, Iron
of the Farnley type does not vary, but is simply the
best that can be produced from what is really
wrought iron. “Farnley” Bars of all sections sup-
plied from local stock bv Sole Agents of the Farnley
Iron Comp., Ltd. Bell's Asbestos, Ltd., 315 Kent
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia, but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has been accepted by the
leading big cos. of Australia as the most all-round,
economical and the most durable pipe on the market.
Full particulars from the Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., 57 York-street, Sydney (Head office).*
The American Ring Pulverizer is designed for
crushing and pulverizing limestone, lime, coke, ore,
terra-cotta, glass, quartz, phosphate rock, sandstone,
gravel, tile crockery, flint, manganese ore, shale,
and all other refractory materials. See page 3.
Australian representatives: Haes and Eggers, Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
Harringtons Ltd. are now in a position to quote
the lowest fees for all kinds of assay, analytical and
metallurgical work. Expert advice on ore treatment,
smelting, bullion, refining, etc. This firm have now
a most up-to-date and completely fitted laboratory,
directed by a first-class analyst from Johnson and
Sons, London, assayers to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, The Council of India, etc. Any work of
the above nature entrusted to this reliable firm of
photographic manufacturers will receive immediate
and prompt attention. For full particulars and
prices apply to Harringtons, Ltd., 380 George Street,
Sydney.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney.* [1
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Messrs. Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd., have received
the order for the supply of all the steam generating
plant and accessories for the electrification of the
Victorian Government Railways. The acceptance of
this firm’s tender was strongly recommended by Mr.
Merz, the English expert. The contract amounts to
£258,000.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospector’s balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles ; chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The co. will, therefore, have not only to provide the
aforementioned £lOOO per half-year, but also to pay
interest on a considerable amount of borrowed money
or new capital.
The Zinc Corporation is finding the South
Blocks a better mine than ever the old co. was able
to show that it was. Development lately has been at
the No. 8 level, in a west crosscut, which has so far
shown an ore body 60ft. wide. As the lode goes
south values get irregular; but the average of this
50ft. of lode in the deep level is quite up to the aver-
age of the 664,309 tons of reserves which were valued
in December, 1911, at 14.6 p.c. lead, 2.30 z. silver and
9.4 p.c. zinc. The No. 8 crosscut figures are: 14.8 p.c.
lead, 2.30 z. silver and 10.7 pc. zinc. To all ap-
pearances, the lode runs continuously from the South
to the South Extended, which would give this co.
a run of about 1800 ft. of ore; and the crosscut shows
that it is a big body. The doubt that remains is
whether it will carry consistently payable values as
it goes towards the South Extended.
Great Cobar £5 shares are down to 455.;
the last knock, which toppled them down to less than
half the price they stood at before the last accounts
were issued, came from the closing-down of mine and
works owing to a shortage of coke following on the
strike at the South Coast coal mines. Back of all,
however, is a dread of what the debenture-holders
may do. Besides interest, the mine is expected to
pay £lOO,OOO a year in extinction of the debenture
debt, and every attempt to get the debenture-holders
to convert their lien into shares has failed. Some
people fear that the debenture-holders may step in
and work the easily-got ore for a few years to sat-
isfy their claims. Things, however, don’t seem to be
quite bad enough for that yet. The trouble is mostly
underground ; if the arrangements there were as
good as Bellinger has got them on the surface,
results would be far better. In any case, of course,
the co. was absurdly over-capitalised; and that,
again, was probably due to defective sampling before
the mine was bought. The sampling gave results far
better than the old Syndicate was ever able to get.
This was put down to the bad work of the Syndicate.
The chances are that it was really due to the bad
work of the people who did the sampling for the
promoters of the new co.
Ridiculously little work is still being done
at Ardlethan (N.S.W.), and the position has not
changed in any important respect from what it was
a week ago. Even at the Carpathia, where some
min’ng of a sort is being done, the most primitive
conditions continue to prevail. The principal indus-
tries of the field are still the shepherding of leases
and blocks applied for, and gambling in shares and in-
terests. Meantune the people who were bitten dur-
ing the short-lived boom are demanding to know why
somebody or other didn’t protect them. As a matter
of fact, they got an unusual amount of warning in
this case—including a couple of straight wires from
the Mines Department. But they preferred to take
the opinion of “geologists” and “experts,” who had
never worked in a mine in the'r lives, and they
swallowed samplings and assays alleged to have been
done by they didn’t know whom. It wasn't Ardle-
than that took them down—there is tin at Ardlethan,
and there may be half a dozen mines there. .The tak-
ing down was done by the manipulators who in some
eases ran shares up to a stiff premium before even
the whole of the issue had been applied for.
Kyloe (N.S.W.) shareholders met the
other day and authorised the directors to buy an-
other mine. Four years ago, or thereabouts, “the
three It’s” were going to make fortunes for thousands
of people. The Bulletin was vulgar enough to say
that they wouldn’t make even .001 of a fortune for
anybody who didn’t make it at somebody else’s ex-
pense by gambling in the shares. Kyloe was the
best of the bunch, and, under new management, gave
the shareholders a good, honest run for their money.
Kootra died in infancy. It shouldn’t have been born.
Itangiara has contrived to hang on by hitching itself
to other things; but of course it has never paid a
penny and isn’t likely to. The boom of the “three
K’s” was the last little mining fever the Sydney
market had. Had the Kyloe meeting been held a
month earlier it might have awakened memories, to
the advantage of numerous forgetful people.
* * * *
Brown’s Creek, the N.S.W. mine John
Whear Roberts has stuck to for so long, is to have
the chance Roberts has so persistently argued for.
Preparations are in hand to unwater the mine and
see if the Bdwt. ore said to have been left by the
French co. between the 200 ft. and 250 ft. levels is
still there. The mine is virgin below the
200 ft., though ore has been struck at 250 ft.
The new co., the Golden Springs, has got the mine
for a block of shares, and has the right to buy the
big mill and plant at any time within two years for
a mere ditty; and most people hope that the un-
watering will justify Roberts’s unwavering belief in
the proposition.
Grafton Copper (N.S.W.) has an im-
proved outlook in the ore body which is being
developed on “A” level. So far all work has been
done from adit levels, and “A” is the deepest of
them ; but the co. is very sluggish in testing the for-
mation below that point.
* * * *
The Mouramba Copper Mines, alias the
old Nymagee (N.S.W.), is slowly getting into trim
for ore production. The main shaft is re-timbered and
equipped to the No. 5 level. There are two levels
yet to unwater, the bottom (No. 7) being at 680 ft.
The main shaft is 739 ft. deep. Acid water has proved
too much for the pumps, so tanks are being put in.
At No. 3 level high-grade sulphides are reported,
with an indication of a good make going east. The
Mouramba is a comparatively recent English produc-
tion, with a capital of £lOO,OOO in 10s. shares. Re-
ports have been made on the mine by J. O. Arm-
strong, now of Burraga (he was at Nymagee once),
and by Logan Jack. The latter estimated the ore
reserves at 209,846 tons (correct, to the nearest
ounce!), averaging 3.83 p.c. copper. The average
width of the lode is 15ft. The blast furnace plant
is being increased to a capacity of 12,000 tons of ore
per month. Working expenses, including delivery of
copper in London and realisation charges, are esti-
mated at £4B per ton of copper. The copper con-
tains practically no gold, hence it is not a welcome
addition to the converters of the Great Cobar; but
the latter co. would give a good deal to have the
supply of Nymagee basic ore handy to the furnaces.
Unlike the Cobar, which has more than a plentiful
supply of silica that it doesn’t want, the Mouramba
is lacking in silica, and it is a purchaser of siliceous
ores. Periodically there is talk of railway to or via
Nymagee. but the scheme never seems to get for-
’arder. There are so few people with votes at Nyma-
gee.
After being refused partial suspension, the
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) comes forward with
on r e discovered in the old belt, nearly
300 ft. below Krohmann’s workings. “Coarse, but
patchy,” is the report, which later on states that the
gold is in the centre of a vein between 3in. and 4in.
thick. As has been remarked before, Hill End has a
congenial habit of yielding timely discoveries; but
whether the present one is a solace to disappointed
shareholders, or is a genuine kindly turn of fortune,
it is too early yet to say. Coarse gold in the centre
ot a 3 to 4in. vein doesn’t in itself count for much.
* * * *
Hampden (Q.) position looks better than
the recent issue of £60,000 worth of 6) p.c. deben-
tures made it appear before accounts were available.
Ihe issue is merely a re-issue, a similar amount hav-
mg been redeemed by the sinking fund since the close
ot the half-year. Net profits were £105,000, of
which £70,000 went in a 4s. div., £7700 to depre-
ciation reserve, £6500 to a debenture sinking fund
and the balance goes forward. Thus far, £54,375
has been paid off the Macgregor purchase, and the
other £54,375 (due June 9) has been provided for:
the surplus of liquid assets is £37,835, as against
£37,900 on the other side at the previous statement.
The new debentures on the Macgregor purchase ac-
count are, of short currency, redeemable by one-thirds
m 1914, ’l5 and ’l6. Net ore reserves have increased
from 238,000 tons (24,880 tons copper) at last re-
port to 268,000 tons ore (27,600 tons copper). The
Duchess gives most of the value and the tonnage;
12,121 tons of Duchess ore smelted averaged 17 p.c.,
as compared with 9510 tons Hampden ore, averaging
8) p.c. The estimate doesn’t include the ore of the
Answer mine nor the cupriferous flux in the Salmon.
Hampden is sinking to 500 ft. to cut the lode proved
at 413 ft. to be worth 11) p.c. copper over 6)ft. That
great little mine, the Duchess, still carries high-
grade ore (about 20 p.c. at a depth of 657 ft.), and
unaltered sulphides are not anywhere in sight. With
copper at £7O there is £2 Is. profit per share in
sight, and with copper at £65 there is 325. 6d.
Mount Elliott is gathering its forces for
another smelting campaign. The fire area at the
Hampden South Consols is being barricaded off. The
new shaft is down to the 250 ft. level, and this level
is being prepared for stoping. The Consols is shal-
low compared with its neighbor, the Hampden, which
recently struck pyritic ore at a denth of 412 ft., and
is sinking to the 500 ft. level. When the smelters
are blown in again, ore will be provided by Mount
Elliott, the Consols, and the Selwyn. At the last-
named, two new shafts are being sunk with very
encouraging prospects. The road from the mine into
the smelter is being repaired to carry a traction-
engine. At the Trafalgar two shafts are down 100 ft.
and 147 ft. respectively, and drives are being put in
along the course of the lode. Three of the options—
Bonar Law, Castle Mountain and the Native Com-
panion—have been quietly dropped.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, made
a profit of £1374 last month: 1980 tons of stone
were crushed for £3991, and 2400 tons of tailings
were cyanided for £1496. The Extended is the
deepest and lowest-grade big mine on the field, so
it is to the credit of its management that it works
at the lowest average cost. The mine is down 2800 ft.,
or 200 ft. below the Brilliant Deeps. Like the latter,
it has difficulties with its ventilation, which makes
its comparatively low costs all the more creditable.
* * * *
Mount Oxide (Q.), which has lately had
its quietude disturbed by rumors of adverse reports,
followed by declining share values, comes forward
with the story of its life for the last 10 months. It
testifies that, from development work only, 750 tons
of ore assaying 43 p.c. and 2000 tons of 18) p.c.
ore have been extracted. Work has been confined to
the levels at 152 ft. and 208 ft., to the winze below
208 ft., and to the north shaft. The last-named
broke into the 208 ft. level at 330 ft. north of the adit
crosscut, and is being continued as a winze in what
is thought to be the head of a new shoot. The shoot
at the 150 ft. level is said to have been shown to be
165 ft. long and Bft. wide, bulking 40 p.c. copper for
the last 100 ft. At the level below- rich ore is also
exposed, 100 ft. of it averaging 30 p.c. over a width
of 15ft. where cut into. Another shoot further north
appears to have been exposed. An idea of the richness
of the ore and the tallness of the costs is given by
the statement that nothing lower than 12) p.c. copper
is taken into consideration, though the “second ores”
averaging 10 p.c. are said to be wider than the firsts.
Anyway, it is definitely asserted that the high-grade
reserves amount to 36,000 tons of over 30 p.c., “equal
to 12,000 tons copper content.” A wobble of 3 p.c.
from the paths of mathematical truth is too small a
trifle to be bothered about, though, later on, it in-
volves £48,000. Also, full recovery is figured on—
and they won’t get it. With copper at £7O a profit
of £37 is expected. [Note: £33 per ton f.o.b. is
a fairly familiar estimate of copper costs, but is rarely
realised.] Allowing an extra £3 per ton when the
railway to Cuthbert is completed, the profit in sight
is estimated at £480,000. Just nicely over the pro-
posed capitalisation if the big London deal comes off,
as it seems very likely to on these developments and
figures.
In a recent report made at the Board’s
request, A. E. Morgans recommended deepening the
main underlay of the Edna May (W.A.) in prefer-
ence to sinking a new vertical shaft, for the reason
that it would not be so costly, and would be the best
way to work the show. The directors, however, dis-
regarded Morgans’s advice, and started a new shaft
some distance west of the present workings. No-
thing very exciting occurred until 75ft. had been
reached, when the ground, which had not been of the
best, became “spewy,” and further sinking was im-
possible, except at ruinous cost. A crosscut was then
started at 75ft. to intersect the reef, and is now
being pushed ahead. Seeing that the body has
already been proved down to 128 ft. in the adjacent
underlay shaft, this seems merely a further waste
of time and money.
W. J. Loring (8., M. and Co.), banging
the drum in Westralia: “If I were to volunteer advice
to the people of the goldfields, I would say, ‘You
have a great industry and nothing to be despondent
about.... A big lode can now be treated profitably
for a gross return of 255. per ton, and such a propo-
sition is most attractive to mining investors.’....
To-day large bodies will pay handsomely with values
less per ton than the profits looked for in bygone
days.... The country is not worked 0ut.... I look
forward to a long life for even the existing mines in
the State.” That’s good. But where are these big
255. lodes, and where are the cos. game enough to
tackle them in an undeveloped state, and without
proof that they will last in size and values? If they
are lying round, what do the Westralian cos. man-
aged by 8., M. and Co. and others mean by chasing
off to Nicaragua, Mexico, Alaska, Persia, Burmah,
and other disturbed places on the hunt for mining
propositions? Regarding the established mines which
he had just inspected, Loring said that the Sons of
Gwalia had bucked up so well that it had been de-
cided to install £30,000 worth of additional gas-
producer and other plant. By doing so they hoped
to save £lO,OOO a year in costs. He expressed satis-
faction with the Yuanmi and Fingall, and remarked
that the newlv eouipped Queen of the Hills was look-
ing very well. Then he steered clear of the Lance-
field, and trekked east.
Two winzes are being sunk on the rich
shoot from No. 4 level in Associated Northern’s Vic-
torious lease (W.A.), and high-grade stuff is being
obtained in both. So far the ore met with has been
oxidised, but sulphides are expected underfoot at any
time. The main shaft is also being pushed down, and
judging by the present underlay of the shoot it should
be struck very near the plat at the No. 5 level.
Golden Pole (W.A.) managed to live on
£243 during the half-year ended March, which left
a balance of £2B to put in the stocking. The
present tribute agreement expires on June 30, after
which the Board will have to make up its mind
whether it is worth while working the mine any
longer. The tributors have found nothing to speak
of, and, judging by appearances, the co. stands a
good chance of finding less. At the end of the half-
year the co. had £l2BB cash in hand, and £240 of
book debts, but owed about half of this to sundry
creditors.
* * * *
Paringa (W.A.) reports good values rang-
ing from 14) to 19dwt. in the north drive at the
100 ft. level. This is believed to be a new lens of
ore running parallel to Geach’s lode; but as further
developments may prove it to be as short as the lat-
ter shoot, local optimists are a bit chary about
whooping.
Burbanks Birthday Gift (W.A.) has again
let the mine for three years on a royalty of 15 p.c.
of the gold recovered. Work has been started with
rock drills, and the tributors expect to do almost as
well as formerly, and give the co. nearly as much
pocket money as it has been getting.
Shareholders ought to be well satisfied
with the outlook at the Kyarra (W.A.). Leastways,
managing director Shallcross says so. Fully three
months ago sufficient ore had been developed above
the 200 ft. level to have enabled the co., if it wanted
to be extravagant, to pay more than its subscribed
carital in dividends, he says. Since then substantial
additions have been made to the reserves. The main
shaft is being hurried down and the driving of the
third level is expected to be in full swing by the
middle of July. There is over £5OOO worth of gold
in the tailings, and as the co. is anxious to enrich
itself from this source, a contract has been let for
an extraction plant. A producer gas plant for general
power purposes is also on order.
* * » *
Great Fingall (W.A.) now has about
500 ft. of payable ore opened up at the 17th and 18th
levels. Deeper sinking is to be carried on, and some
development is also to be started southward from
the bottom workings, on the off-chance of picking up
the downward continuation of the shoot which made
the mine famous in days gone by.
* * * *
Developments on the old main ore shoot
between the 16th and 19th levels is claimed to have
entirely changed the outlook at Sons of Gwalia
(W.A.). Over 400 ft. of payable stuff has been ex-
posed at No. 18 level, and connections made up to
the 16th and down to the 19th levels show a con-
tinuity of values. The location at No. 18 level of
what is known -s the middle shoot (the one that
proved such a valuable source of ore supply between
the Nos. 8 and 14 levels, and then did the disap-
pearing trick) is also reckoned to have added lustre
to the mine’s prospects. On the score of economy
gas is about to be substituted for steam at the
Gwalia, except for driving the winders and a couple
of air compressors.
Victoria’s gold yield for April, 36,0870 z.,
puts the figures for the four months of 1913 up to
148,4800 z. This is only 30480 z. less than for the
same term in 1912, so it seems as though the State
has at last about stopped the heavy shrinkage in
output. Quartz-mining is, however, still on the wane,
and the steadying of the industry comes from the
pick of the deep lead mines.
* * * *
New Langi Logan, Ararat (Vic.), has at
last got across the gutter. The old river bed is
800 ft. wide, and where crossed is even on the bot-
tom. With this work done, and with branch lines
going east and west, real mining isn’t far off. First
the water has to be got out. The big pumps have
already smashed the 701 b. pressure down to 391 b.,
and every clank of the shaft shows that the unwater-
ing of the big lead isn’t going to be the stiff job
expected. North Langi is benefiting by this drainage,
and so isn’t hurrying up shaft sinking. “Bill”
Toole, shy as a Fusionist about pledging himself to
deeds ahead, surmises that three months ought to
see him rising into the wash. His diffidence doesn’t
assist the market, which is moving as if it were
gyved. The second prop to New Langi may be sub-
stantial. It is the extension of the Cathcart lead
beyond that co.’s lease. The No. 2 shaft is to see
whether the Central Caihcart gold extends into its
giound. This will cost a bit, but the co. won’t split
up its lease, and the pumping will later on help on
drainage work. So, apart from the big gamble of
picking up the Central Cathcart run of gold, it is
sound mining to shove the shaft down.
New Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), handed
out 4070 z. for four weeks against its previous return
of 4660 z.; but the Board doesn’t declare the tonnage
nor the cubic feet that go to make up the tons. The
Ballarat smart crowd doesn’t worry about this;
when it is told that a nice make is showing in the
New Jubilee’s 800 ft. level, it chews up its cigar and
asks one of the mine timbermen or the handy
authority near-by whether, now that the news is out,
shares ought to be let go. But as the bottom level
is in good working slate, and as the Stock Exchange
knows that this spells a month’s respite, at least,
Ballarat turns away to pick other winners from the
touts at Ararat or Daylesford.
* * * *
Melbourne houses the Gitsham Gold Ex-
traction Co.; and a message from the office intimates
that the inventor (Gitsham) and assayer (Davies)
sail by the Moana “for the purpose of placing before
a large London syndicate the world’s rights to this
new process.” What the process is The Bulletin
doesn’t know; but the office tip is that “bulk tests
prove it capable of extracting from refractory tailings
a greater percentage of gold than cyanide can get
out.”
* * * *
J. E. Carne’s monograph on the coal,
petroleum and copper of Papua has been published.
Carne, a very experienced member of the Geological
Survey staff of N.S.W., was lent to the Common-
wealth for the purpose of this examination. As to
coal, he summarises: “Of the resources of Papua, so
far as can be ascertained, a favorable opinion cannot
be entertained, altogether apart from inaccessibility
and thinness of seams.” The coal is of the brown-
coal variety, and contains much moisture. Some dav-
it may be briquetted and made into a fuel for local
use. As to oil, “the possibilities of a valuable
national asset are great, the local indications com-
paring most favorably with the nearest commercial
oil fields in the Malay Archipelago, which are geologi-
cally and structurally identical.” And as to copper,
though Came couldn’t make much of an exploration,
“the prospects of the Astrolabe field are encourag-
ing.” This field is better known as Laloki, is within
a handy 18 or 20 miles of Port Moresby, and is the
place where G. C. Ivlug secured a property for the
Great Fitzroy.
Incidentally, Carne, while discussing the prospects
of Papua, declares that the chances of Roma (Q.)
getting oil are practically nil. The local bore poured
out inflammable gas for five or six years; but this,
he says, came from a coal seam, and there is no
reason at all to expect oil underneath.
The Australian dredging-man has now
oenpered himself pretty well over the Malay Penin-
sula. A Melbourne co., the Hindu Choung, is getting
its first returns from its claim in Lower Burmah ;
tin proceeds for six months, £4279 ; outgoings, £3903.
Not much in that when depreciation is lopped off.
The big trouble so far has. been the logs in the wash ;
small splinters, up to 140 ft., have had to be nosed
out. In a financial way of speaking, the co. is about
on an even keel; liquid assets would pay the debts
(other than the £lOOO due to the vendors, out of
first profits), and leave a few pounds over. The
paid-capital, £87,218, is far too heavy; £65,000
in shares was collared by the vendors. Certainly
there is a big area ; but that’s not everything.
Labor Minister Collier (W.A.) is after
the scalps of law-breaking mining cos. who prefer
the unintelligible foreigner to the other fellow. In-
structions have been given inspectors to keep their
eyes skinned for underground workers whose ability
to speak English is doubted, and to pass out all
those who haven’t any more of the gift of our gab
than a parrot. A refusal to afford inspectors reason-
able facilities to get the strength of things renders
the offender liable to a fine of £5O, while the pen-
alty for employing foreigners who cannot answer
readily any simple questions put to them has also
been made substantial. A recent search at the Sons
of Gwalia showed that out of 303 men employed
underground, 221 were foreigners, and the manage-
ment have already been fined in respect of 11 of
them.
The linotype can be quite inhuman some-
times. For instance, the other day: “Ardlethan
sharks were more active this morning.” It meant to
say “shares.”


I
HEERING
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
WORLD
RENOWNED
11
stuhr.
BRAND
STUHR.S
Genuine Caviare,
Anchovies in Brine
(SALTED SARDELS).
In Tins and Glasses.
Sold by all High-class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., HAMBURG.
English Export Agent:
W. LOVEUROVE, LONDON, E.C.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1*75, 1860, I*4B, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, May 12, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
The Town Hall lost its usually bleak ap-
pearance at the Benevolent Asylum centen-
ary revel. The official guests were herded on
the platform during the speeches, but
descended to a strip of carpet when the
coffee was going round. Governor Strick-
land remarked on the contrast between the
duties of a Governor of N.S.W. to-day as
compared with the all-round occupation of
a Macquarie. The President’s address boiled
down to gratitude for past favors from the
public, and a prayer for more subscriptions
to come. The MacCallum got his usual bull-
dog grip on history. Mayor Cocks and
Archbishop Kelly gave brief orations. The
Admirable King Hall and his lady were
wedged into seats near the Barton dame,
and Premier McGowen. Mrs. Trefle tossed
some rose-colored trimmings in her sleek
dark locks. The long and slender Mrs.
Neville Mayman wore an elegant blue drape
that was second cousin to a Roman toga,
over the serpentine folds of her white frock.
Judge Docker’s spectacles shimmered near an
historic document that was gaoled in a glass
case. And amongst 1000 persons present
the tall figure of sculptor Dora Ohflsen made
a striking pillar, framed in amethyst velvet.
Secretary .John Roseby of the aged
Benevolent Asylum, collected the data that
explained the growth of that centenarian.
Vignettes were inset with this letterpress, in
the souvenir programmes which fluttered
round the Town Hall soiree. President
Neville Mayman and the directors of a most
virile charity welcomed Governor Strickland
at the centenary conversazione last week.
Edward Smith Hall, the founder, had a
page to himself. Gladstone Eyre made a
bold sketch from the ancient’s picture in the
Mitchell Library, which was reproduced in
the jubilee leaflet. Hall, a resolute old gen-
tleman (as shown in his portrait), with a
fighting under-lip, bumped up against Parson
Marsden. Without asking that fiery auto-
crat’s leave, he presided at the meeting on
May 8, 1813, which agreed to found a
Benevolent Society in Sydney. As a magis-
trate, Samuel Marsden had a firm belief in
flogging a sinner for the good of his soul.
Probably he saw the dawn of a milder
regime, and it made him madder and more
bitter than before. The birth of a society
which hoped to fill the sinner’s empty
stomach before asking him what his religious
convictions might be, was a startling innova-
tion in the da.vs when the leading idea of
this country’s British rulers was to spank
the sinner in order to make him a saint, and
to spank the saint lest he should relapse
into sin, and to spank the poor on the sus-
picion that they had spent their assets in
riotous living, and to spank all save the rich
on general principles.
Governor Macquarie wisely advised the
Benevolent Hall, and his colleagues to drop
the clause “for the promoting of Christian
knowledge,” and stick to the notion of feed-
ing the hungry. This left Marsden unop-
posed in his “cure” of souls, and kept the
peace. . Hall, a newcomer to these shores,
in 1813, brought letters of introduction from
Wilberforce and Canning. The bumntious
Samuel must have scented opposition to his
vigorous orders to “lay it on,” (i.e., the lash)
if Smith Hall had been allowed to meddle in
the soul-snatching business.
The lady goffers goffed at Kensington in
line weather on three days of last week.
The rest of the week was mostly mud and
goloshes. They had the only dry streaks, and
great was the goff thereof.
IN intry sunshine, on May 6, warmed up
the ladies’ match between the Metropolitan
goff associates and the full war-cry of the
combined suburban team. The course was
good, and the only shiver of the afternoon
was heard on the in-round, where a freezing
little breeze nipped the players’ ankles.
They had large mercies to be thankful for.
The male goffers, represented by enthusiast
D’Arcy, had nobly lent the men’s course,
which contains a ton or so less sand to the
square inch than the female track. Miss
Duret played a fine smashing game with a
score of 83, beating the ex-champion, Miss
Wray. The latter was off her old-time form.
111-health has forced her to take her goff
gently as a recreation, hence her descent
from the dizzy pinnacles of championship.
The goffing Dubbo girl, Mabel Mackenzie,
who plays with the Metrop. team, was
beaten by half a hole or three-eighths of a
shoe-lace, by Mrs. Rankin, the Hunter’s Hill
player. The usually victorious Hon. Sec.
Trevor-Jones was off her invincible stroke,
and went down before the prowess of the
Bonnie Doon goffer, Miss Boys. Another
mighty round was fought between Miss Kiss
and Mrs. Wallace, a Bonnie Doonite. The
latter swallowed the sandy grit of defeat.
After the fray (May 6) the beaten Metro-
politan team offered the afternoon tart of
peace to the conquering suburbanites, in the
Club House.
The Women’s Golf Championship meeting
of N.S.W., from June 14 to 20, is already
stirring the feverish pulses of ardent goffers
in quiet bush hamlets, where the links are
mixed up with bellowing herds and prime
mutton. The firm tread of the Ladies’ Golf
Union (N.S.W.) officially follows the for-
tunes of the coming scrimmage. Rose Bay
course will be the place.
On May 8 the goff balls clicked in friendly
rivalry between Killara dames and the Asso-
ciates of the Australian Goff Club. Kensing-
ton’s breezy sand dunes saw the downfall of
Killara before the mighty women of the
A.G.U. Truly, there are goff giantesses in
these parts—or giant goffesses, as you like to
put it. Goffer Baldwin played a good game in
this, her first important match, though her
scalp eventually went. The breathless
energy of Miss D. Doak captained the
A.G.U.
Mrs. M. A. O’Callaghan came first to the
winning hole, on Saturday, with a score of
36. Kensington goff dames played their
choice score and Union medal round, on that
afternoon, and the Dairy Expert’s blue-eyed
lady was the Choicest.
This State has just bumped over a U.S.
fad called Mother’s Day without dislocating
any domestic virtues already indigenous to
the soil. A few years ago, one Anna Jarvis,
of U.S., decided to arrange a new cult that
included the wearing of white flowers,
the singing of special hymn tunes and other
soul-leaps and spiritual gymnastics. The
second Sunday in May has been picked out
for this display, . which may be headed off
as futile ostentation or the Art of Wearing
Your Heart On Your Shirt Cuff. The jack-
daws peck at coin and pass round the col-
lection-box with prompt attention to busi-
ness on Mother’s Day.
M lien Anna Jarvis first plucked this weird
flower of sentiment she was too busy telling
the tale round town to remember two
things of some importance. First, that the
mother who is worth remembering will be re-
membered on seven days a week by
every son and daughter who has any
remembering capacity on hand. Secondly,
the backsliders who have to be primed
with hymns before they can remember
the sting of Mother’s flat bedroom
slipper are maudlin derelicts. They will
come into the movement with loud lamenta-
tions and large white button-holes, and re-
collect Mother’s spanking on one day a year.
A rival cult to make this type of offspring
recall, on 364 days per annum, the maternal
Nemesis that met the back breadth of them
when they told lies, robbed pantry shelves
or played Judas tricks on the child next door
might mitigate the feeble nuisance called
Mother’s Day. Also, what about Father’s
Day ? And why doesn’t that useful relative
Uncle get an_ occasional Psalm or Thanks-
giving turkey? Uncle doesn’t eat pork, but
turkey should be quite in his line. Incident-
ally the Mohammedan doesn’t eat pork
either, which is probably the reason why he
failed to go the whole hog in the late Bal-
kan unpleasantness, and his shining light
was blown out.
Educational Inspector Donald Fraser (the
“Jimmie Pannikin” of Bulletin pars) was
presented with a silver hot-water kettle and
pen in the Girls’ High School, the other
day. Dominie Price, vice-President of the
Eastern District Teachers’ Association,
handed over the plate on behalf of the Man-
ning River District Teachers’ corroboree.
It is understood from unofficial sources that
when the lengthy Fraser was first ap-
proached re. this matter he sternly depre-
cated the giving or taking of presents in
any form. Pressed to unlock the door of
his special weakness, he said that since they
were good enough to want to load him with
visible signs of their kindly feelings, he
would prefer a dairy farm, with a range of
purple hills in the background, a rip-
pling stream lined with trees, an ivy-clad
house, one small red cow showing up against
a vast lawn of verdure, one absolutely spot-
less white sheep—the kind that gets ‘a bath
every morning—so stationed in the land-
scape as to harmonise with the red cow and
the green grass and the blue sky, and an
Arcadian shepherd blowing music through
an old Grecian instrument to prevent the
washed sheep feeling lonely. Also, if a
faun and a dryad and a nymph (making
love to the shepherd) could be thrown in.
and there was a good view of the Federal
capital and the Northern Territory in the
distance, he opined that things would be all
right. In despair Donald Fraser’s friends
compromised on the hot-water kettle.
Ex-High Commissioner Hall-Jones (M.L.)
and his family have been camped on the
shores of North Sydney. A brief look round
our blue water front is the prefix to their
journey over the wet and bumpy track to
Maoriland.
Under-Sec. Blow, of M.L. Public Works
and Mines Department, left Wellington to
incline his ear to the Commonwealth con-
ference on matters mineral. He ought to be
hereabouts this week.
Private Sec. Hood has removed his in-
formative head from the official collar for a
few weeks. His office chair will be filled by
General Finn, who seems to have glided into
the occupation of odd job man. Some of
Soldier Finn’s time is crowded with the
duties of secretary to the Walter Hall Trust
Fund. It can’t be overcrowded, however, as
he now locum tenenses in the shadow of the
nimble Flood.
The youthful Sinclair Thomson. R.N.,
who jumped into the sea-boots of Flag-
Lieutenant Seton while that mariner was
tumbling about in Sick Bay, is a Maori-
lander. lie hails from Christchurch or
thereabouts, where the limpid Avon splashes
through about four miles of scenery before
it gets one mile from its starting place. This
is not a riddle. Having once been cast ashore
in a Christchurch canoe which had a trick
of overlanding when the Avon turned its
fifteenth sharp corner in 15 minutes, I am
not likely to forget its curly ways. Whyte
Melville said that life is very like a polka—
what you gain in going forward you lose in
turning round. But he hadn’t seen the M.L.
Avon, which out-polkas even Fitchett’s edi-
tion of Life.
Last week this office saw an early Aus-
tralian duke climbing up its innumerable
stairs. He was not favorably diagnosed as
anything in the Who’s Who line, till he pro-
duced a card bearing the name, “Sir William
Cooper.” The honor of this visit was due
to the fact that Baronet Cooper resents any
mention of his illustrious family in The
Bulletin. Also, he repudiates the
charge of “patriarchal generosity” towards
the aborigines hurled at the late Richard Hill,
M.L.C., in the issue of May 1. This charge
is now withdrawn. Baronet Cooper, of
Woollahra, says that the late Richard did
not open his purse and his tucker-bag to the
wretched black inhabitant in days that are
dead. All he gave them, according to Bart.
Cooper (who married one of the Hill family
and ought to know), was the cold charity
of the Government, on behalf of the Govern-
ment of the day. For the first time in its
career The Bulletin has been found guilty
on a charge of gross flattery.
The slender Sylvia Ffrench, who was one
of Melba’s pet lambs for a while, was mar-
ried without any social uproar last week.
The groom is Mr. Charlie Mills, of Bald Hill
station, up Grenfell way. The Ffrench
family originally dated from the Moree dis-
trict, N.S.W. Mrs. du Boulay, the bride’s
maternal parent, gave away her Sylvia.
Dr. Elsie Dalyell, an old High School
girl, who eventually ran off with one of the
Otto Beit medical scholarships, left this
town for the other side last week. Beit was
a wealthy Africander who bequeathed about
quarter of a million in bursaries, to be used
for the advancement of medical science. The
winner of each scholarship gets £250 per
annum for three or four years, presumably
on the understanding that he or she uses it
to peer into the pedigree of bacilli and
search the secret history of a cough. Beit
generously decreed that candidates in any
part of the British Empire should be eligible.
As Dr. Elsie was the first N.S.W. woman
to snatch one of these S’African plums, she
has 250 reasons for requiring an outsize in
hats.
One of the nice Turton girls was married
to Mr. Jack Gardiner the other evening. St.
Phillip’s venerable pile (“veneraUle pile” is
a good expression and one that shouldn’t be
allowed to drop into oblivion; it sounds
ever so much better than “old heap”)—this
venerable pile, as already mentioned, which
has had its front steps covered with confetti,
off and on, for some weeks, was the busy
scene of the orange blossoming. Mr. E. Tur-
ton, the bride’s surviving parent, is some-
thing of importance in the big wool firm of
Winchcombe, Carson and Co. The bridal
plumage had the usual foam of Limerick
lace falling over its satin shimmer. A fair-
haired sister, Mrs. Fludson, who mostly lives
in Cevlon’s tea-leafed isle, mothered the
party. After the knot-tying, the wedding
sup Der was served at Petty’s hostel. The
groom has sheep-and-grass interests in the
Wellington (N.S.W.) district.
The George F. Cuttle pair have reached
Geneva, fairly sound in breath and feet.
The health of Mr. Cuttle has greatly im-
proved on the voyage. I understand," in a
letter addressed to this paper from Altstat-
ten, that the Australasian friends of the
wanderers will be searching its columns for
this glad tidings.
The first Symphony orchestral concert of
this season occurred in the Town Hall on
Saturday afternoon. Conductor Joseph Brad-
ley was in his usual pen. He uses his fingers
instead of a baton. The effect is obvious at
the beginning of a big orchestral effort,
which lacks the imperative rap of a stick to
give the sharp click of command. Two
plump hands clawing the air don’t seem to
grip the attention of a large array of fiddlers
with the same vim as a stick.
Eva Gauthier’s lovely voice, 'hardly big
enough to fight the wretched acoustics in the
Town Hall, was further overwhelmed by the
too-noisy accompaniment of the full strength
of the orchestra. This was notably the case
in Beethoven’s scena and aria, “Ah! Per-
fido!” Unlike one famous singer, who was
once threatened with extinction by an or-
chestra, she didn’t say, “D —n !” instead of
“In pity hear !” Pianist William Murdoch
was altogether delightful in the big Bee-
thoven Concerto, with a beautifully-played
orchestral background. Numbers of girls’
schools were represented at the Symphony
Concert. By the expression of the back of
her straw hat, I take it that the Young
Person was much interested in Murdoch’s
doings.
Contralto Eugenie Boland, the tall girl
from the Darling Downs (Q.), shouldered
her swag for England seven brief years ago.
She put her voice under the care of Landon
Ronald, song-writer and Guildhall expert,
for some finishing touches, with a digression
under Anna Fischer for German lilts. Being
originally the pupil of Mrs. Christian in
this city, Eugenie had nothing to unlearn.
She has worked and warbled her way to
good business in the English provinces An
pearances at the Albert Hall and Hip Ro?"
lash Club, where wejl-feh iSWS,*®
after-dinner song conducive to good diZ,
tion were wedged in between visits tn
Brighton, Margate and other towns wheje
shrimps and seaside society are nrevp.l l
by the lady who has lodgings to let, and the
nigger minstrel brays on the beach bv dll
and night. Eugenie Boland came back m
her native land to get a whiff 0 f sunshin!
before returning to the Great Rainfall,' 111
concert in the Concordia Hall, on Mav 15
will be trimmed with efforts from Sid Mac
donald, Fiddler Grieves and the Garcia
School students.
Actor Grim wood is going to produce one
of the York mystery players, in St. James’s
Hall, at the termination of the Asche season
here. Grimwood, who is now giving a fine
blustering performance as Enobarbus in the
“Serpent of Old Nile,” will essay the part
or Herod who was a strenuous person “down
in .Tudee” in days when the world was
younger. Professor MacCallum is inter
ested in the forthcoming show of this Enz
lish Passion Play—a novelty here. Arch!
bald Strong, the Melbourne Uni 1 , man, has
re-written the ancient dialogue, and the
most respectable members of the clergy- are
already polishing up their spectacles to peer
into the domestic habits of Herod. Said
habits were numerous. The Dyers’ Guild in
Yorkshire has given a good performance of
this Mystery amongst its native moors
Hignet. one of the Asche team, will take
the part of the boy Saviour.
Josephine Cohan (Mrs. Fred Niblo) is
rushing off to the U.S. in the Ventura. She
is getting homesick for her boy who is at
one of the American military colleges. After
giving Sonny a hearty kiss, making sure he
wears flannels next his chest, seeing to his
socks, etc., the maternal flutter will be
soothed. Bonny Watt, a Melbourne girl
goes with Momma Niblo as her guest.
The Asche-Brayton Co. procession will
stamp round the Town Hall on the night
(May 22) of the Shakspearian Ball. From
11.30 p.m. to midnight is the hour invoiced.
News has gone round that there will be one
or more “black-outs,” when all lights, other
than those that fall on the burly Oscar and
his Shakspearian farm yard, will be ex-
tinguished. An insistent demand for a pro-
gramme that will index the time of these
sudden slabs of inky atmosphere is raging
round the J.C.W. fortress. Gilded youths,
who want to engage their favorite partners
for “black-outs,” may drag the details out
of the mighty Asche, for every man
has his price. It is understood that
Oscar Asche’s price in this case is
£6,332,297,813,410,111,202,571,960 13s. 4d.
That Asche is probably one of the world's
greatest play producers, the present riot of
Egyptian color at the Royal is a sumptuous
witness. The elder Irving, as I saw him
years ago at the London Lyceum, was fol-
lowed round the stage by the old-fashioned
spot light. It discreetly dodged his knobby
knees, but the footlights made up for this
deficiency. In the Nile tragedy, footlights
and the “spot” illumination that used to
chase the hero’s troubled smile have both
vanished. The long line of steps that ap-
parently fall down behind the back hair of
the orchestra are an amazing bit of stage
illusion. J.C. \v., in a sudden moment of
loquacity, once said that he placed Asche
as only second to Reinhardt as a producer.
Lily-Cleopatra, daughter of Ptolemy the
Flute-player, is not beautified by the lady
Serpent’s burying style of millinery. One
takes it for granted that the general scheme
of the Brayfon toilet is correct in the Asche
performance of “Antony and Cleopatra.”
Oscar has probably torn the cut of the lady’s
bonnets, out of some ancient Egyptian
Lakes’ Journal done in sandstone, and
published monthly 100 ft. high on the banks
of the Nib*. Her taste was obviously both
loud and deep. Out of the recesses of mil-
linery that took the form of a bird or a glit-
tering helmet squatting on her scarlet locks,
the Lily’s retrousse nose looks frankb' Eng-
lish, not to say Clapham Common, though
she is a Lancashire lass. It doesn’t look
Memphis—at least, not madlv Memnbis.
Her Egyptian deanery glints like the scales
of a gorgeous fish fried in molten gold.
Livid green, the color of her suicide frock,
is a corpse-like contrast to the moss-green
internals of the Alexandrian monument.
The Asche version of Cleopatra’s death is
dramatic, but it hits against one’s cherished
belief that the ladv died on the broad of her
back. Lily nerishes bolt upright in her
chair, with the look of a person who is
about to have her front teeth taken out with-
out gas, or her eyebrow shampooed.
Mary Butler, the well-known Wellington
(M.L.) girl, who has been studying here
under Walter Bentlev and Lawrence Canm-
hell. will elocute on May 17, in St. James s
Hall.
The long coat that is like unto a rug in
the deoth and silkiness of its fur, and the
size of its embrace, is going to clothe the
more or less unclothed fashionable form this
winter. As these luxuries run into anything
from £5O to £lOO, I suspect we shall mostly
enjoy them afar off.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


IT***':-
1
K
.7
tP\
®S-
■ y vX^
££«
:,-54>
C
st 3
i\
k
4>
7 7
X
/,/
«g
\\
,\Vt
<£>J
X
Vj
&■ 'fin
5^
is*~&yl
>"
TI
■*s
i
Sr
7^<r
fl\\U
v.
x
TO
f A
/>#
/ v =y! / "Y
fe- /' 7 j
sn
w
•/aw
J
Jst
(X -
#4'
XW
!X
/
Ni
•;, J >^J . /';.-
V X** X >/**• J*/
f-'\TT' \>&
&
'rO,\
fc&
■&M
ly
S
w
■xs
* ■
JSSS* ®
&<?5
%
m
tr.%
KV
J :'"'
???4
fl,
\
V
'M'
m
M
7x
m
v.
;W'Xl
rx
\
/
n ri ~^^'
J
wX
D
Wf
J
yy-,
.V
~.-,y
: H
M
:«
.' /r
./IS
JF.
ja®s>
iswf
.jtfMfih
ml
iMf
y.M# 4 7
X
0m
yfri
tin
m
p
/
Mimi
St { I*B
17<r I! t
m
/•;
7 ?
Rfe
<l*
r^Kj
€4
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Orders gives
For a review.
Rank by rank
The boys go by.
Chunder notes
With kindling eye
How the brave,
Bronzed faces shine.
See the boots!
Line after line,
“COBRA” flashes
In the sun
Till the dusty
March is done.


vSmart & >Sbirts
For Business Wear.
5/6 each AT FARMER'S.
For smart business and ordinary wear, these Tunic
Shirts are particularly suited. They are made in
Farmer’s excellent way, from serviceable Fancy
Zephyrs, with white grounds and narrow black
stripes; have soft fronts, stiff cuffs and neckbands,
and are all true to size.
5/6 each, 3 for 16/-
MEN’S WOOLLEN SHIRTS.
These Shirts are made from pure Crimean Flannel,
with neckbands and rifle cuffs. They are perfect in
fit, and are thoroughly recommended for warm,
winter wear. Please state size of neckband required
when ordering.
Prices: 6/6, 8/6 & 10/6 each
CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S SYDNEY
4
\
“Dunlops
/"or Durability.
Cheap
Motoring
is only
when your Car is j
shod with high-
grade tyres of
sufficient strength
and weight to
withstand our
rough roads.
That’s why it pays
to always use our
Heavy Grooved...
TYRES
Motor...
Cycling.
The most popular tyres
with Motor Cyclists are
“Dunlops.” The reason
is that they are heavier,
stronger and better
. wearing than any of the
imported brands. For
tyre satisfaction always
specify “ Dunlops.”
IN STUDDED, GROOVED
AND RIBBED PATTERNS
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States And N.Z.
Dunlops
/or a big Mileage
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 12, 1913.
My Dear Yakbie, —
On Friday evening the Gentlemen Helps
at Federal Government House arranged a
grotesque frivol, as a send-off to the Den-
man lady. The G.-G. was otherwise engaged
with influenza; but her Ex., who stuck to
modern clothes in the midst of fancy dress,
looked gorgeous in green brocade liberally
garnished with gold lace. Small daughter
Judith trotted along with brother Thomas,
and Helps Nutting and Burnham completed
the team. They had shared about three
pounds of black cork between them. Walter
Barttelot, divorced from his eyeglass, had
assumed a brick-red complexion and repre-
sented _ himself as a whiskerless bushranger.
His wife, as a Russian peasant woman, had
on a most becoming head fixture. One
Barttelot lad was a miniature Guardsman,
and the other a cavalier. State Governor
Fuller, who had rushed away from the
Warrnambool races, was just himself; but
Help Curwen, in attendance, appeared as a
thin edition of Danilo. Secretary Wilber-
force, in an assortment of garments, repre-
sented Capital flying from the country, or
something of the kind. Some of the clothes
worn added considerably to the subdued de-
corative scheme. Mrs. Jack Sanderson car-
ried about three quarts of diamonds or glass
on her head, whilst tall Eva Robinson flut-
tered around in the queer raiment of Cleo-
patra. _ Willie Clarke’s brace of girls won an
expensive box of chocolates for their pre-
sentation of Rouge et Noir. Rupert Faning
and Pat Anderson completed the quartet.
For his labors as an Old Age Pensioner,
Tommy _ Cochrane pocketed a gilt tobacco
box. Little Mrs. Russell Clarke, as a curly-
haired infant, was awarded a bouquet. Nor-
man Brookes, with his head well propped
with an early Victorian fence, chaperoned a
Dresden shepherdess. Audrey Chirnside, in
aipsy rig, accompanied Mamma in a white
Pompadour. Eva Thomley was inside a
Turkish costume. May Grice, as a Pier-
rette, and Maggie Niall, as a Cingalee,
capered around. Mrs. Alan Currie was dis-
guised as a champagne bottle, and Captain
Griffiths and his wife divided the picturesque
rags of a mule-driving couple. Supper was
served early in the dining-room, where the
assorted crowd fed off gold plates set out on
earth-brown draperies. The hop was voted
rippin’, but the results of dispensing with
the usual number of garments this chilly
weather will probably be deplored anon.
Mrs. Findley, wife of the Senator, has just
finished an oil portrait of Andrew Fisher. It
is a speaking likeness of Andrew’s dimple
and chin, but is otherwise unremarkable,
save that Andrew’s snowy locks appear edged
with green. It gives him a curious stormy
sea effect. To give the right statesman effect
he has moored himself to a Bill (or perhaps
it is the morning newspaper rolled up).
There is also a smile lurking in the south-
east corner of his mouth. The painting is
hardly a work of art, but certainly is a
nleasing likeness. The painter-lady was Lily
Foyle before she married into Federal poli-
tics. She is said to hold an Australian re-
cord for a water-color group of 205 Warr-
nambool pioneers, fitted into a frame lift,
by 4ft. The Prime Minister’s portrait, sur-
rounded by a gilt frame, was on view last
week in Allan’s window, and passers-by com-
mented on it admiringly or otherwise, accord-
ing to their tariff views-—mostly otherwise.
Reciter Rose Seaton hurled solid chunks
of drama at some patient people and a lot
of chairs at the Masonic Hall, on Wednes-
day, May 7. Rose drew on Shakspeare for
most of her heavy ammunition; but there
was a leavening of lighter things and some
harp music by Walter Barker. Rose dodged
round the harp when the accompanist wasn’t
looking, and sometimes her voice could be
heard above the musical helpings. She was
draped heroically in a fringed shawl —pro-
bably to help out the Hamlet and Henry V.
stride. The shawl fringe was given a
princely hitch in the tragic parts. Rows of
boarding-school misses were on hand to have
their little minds improved. The poor young
things missed only a few scenes in the second
half, when most of the audience was in a
subdued but distracting state of bustle and
unrest, and time-tables were rustling. RVert
in Melbourne’s little world of Higher Things
there are trains to be caught after two hours
of uncostumed blank verse.
_ The Australian Art Association’s exhibi-
tion drew the Denman lady away from her
packing for a second look. This time she
carried off Ambrose Patterson’s “Lily Pond,
Botanical Gardens,” at 10 guineas. Pre-
sumably she wants to present it to somebody
on the “other side” as an interesting souvenir
of dear old Melbourne.
Dorothy Chenery (a lively niece of auntie
George Chirnside) has thrown in her lot
with a provincial touring company in Eng-
land. She is now playing in “Milestones,”
and is quite sure that she is fairly launched
on a Career.
Artist George Coates is so busy with por-
trait commissions in London and thereabout
that he could not get away this month. His
dutiful wife (Dora Meeson) is coming on
ahead with the picture collection, to be
shown in Melbourne next month. Dora
is due to arrive in the Marmora, and the
show will include some of. her own efforts.
The Heath-Darling pair went off for a
motor honeymoon—or motormoon —immedi-
ately after the toasting at Bundarra, the
Heath place. When they have had enough
road dust they intend to return and shelter
for a week in Melbourne, ere going on to
their Adelaide home.
The Marshall-Hall note factory is being
run by musician Fritz Hart, of the moppy
locks, during its director’s trip abroad in
search of fame with his opera “Stella.”
Fritz, who used to beat J. C. Williamson
comic-opera jingles to a froth with his con-
ductor’s baton, now pens musical critiques
for a Melbourne daily. He also scribbles
poetry at odd moments, and is responsible
for a thin, purple-covered book of verses now
lurking in the book shops.
Thorold Waters, lately-returned Victorian
warbler, drops me a line :— *■
How the Australian delights to bash his joss! I
have spent much time since getting back here from
the Smoke in contradicting, from personal know-
ledge, three prevalent lies about concert and theatre
“favorites.” The three ladies all happen to be
equipped with the same initials. From close personal
knowledge I can assure those people who do not
want their idols bashed that No. 1, the soprano,
does not swill champagne or other tack ruinous to
her voice; that No. 2, the contralto, does not have
daily ructions with her husband, and is, in fact, per-
sistently fond of him ; and that No. 3, who usually
acts “leading ladies” in big London theatres, is not
walking the Strand gutters looking for a job. She
may have walked the gutters once in a way, in com-
mon with half her stage sisters, for the purpose of
placarding suffrage sentiments, but the calamity was
that they were all masked on that occasion.
Ex-Agent-General Taverner and his spouse
have brought with them an infant described
by the press interviewers as “their young
son.” The Taverners are childless in their
own right, but during their stay in the Fog
they got so into the habit of mothering and
fathering nieces that the need of a perma-
nent someone-to-love forced itself upon them,
and finally they adopted the bouncing young-
ster referred to.
The wives of the Federal Ministry have
banded together and invited the Denman
lady to luncheon, at the Oriental Hotel, on
Monday. With the exception of Mrs. Frazer,
busy chaperoning her Charles in Westralia,
and Mrs. O’Malley, a full muster is ex-
pected. Mrs. Andrew Fisher will occupy
the chair.
Mr. Guise, who, from this out, will whis-
per in G.-G. Denman’s offside ear, is quite
new to Australia. When his secretarial job
in Maoriland came to an end, he shipped
back to England via Canada (where he pre-
viously earned crusts under Minto and
Grey). He halted lone enough by the
Thames for his pretty wife to run round and
see the family. The local society spinster
would, if she could, prohibit the importation
of annexed Helps, secretaries and so forth.
The present state of the Federal establish-
ment is lamentable. With Barttelot and
Guise both wedded, and Nutting away, there
remains only Burnham to uphold the glitter-
ing bachelor tradition.
Martha Bruggemann, who took her top
note to London last year, has decided to have
done with voice culture and retire into pri-
vate life. The man who is concerned in
this matter plants tobacco or something in
Papua, but Martha might have retired in
any case. It appears that the London
voice experts were not wholly confident
about Martha’s chances as a platform vocal-
ist. They weren’t sure that the splendid
voice would last, and, no matter how
fine _ the voice may be, there is little
use in cultivating it if the staying power is
wanting. So Martha, like a sensible girl,
had relinquished her ideas of a career, and
was returning home. The planter happened
to be on the same boat. The Bruggemanns,
though Swiss by nationality, are old Aus-
tralian residents. Jules, the late parental
head, was for many years in the importing
business, both in Sydney and Melbourne.
Little Marjorie Rouse is amongst the
Oriental Hotel visitors. Her father has
been enticed from the Sydney home to meet
partner Baker, who is returning from a trip
round the world in search of the latest in
the photogranhic business. Mrs. Rouse
stayed at home to put out the cat and the
milk-jug at the usual hour.
Edith Onions, who helps to look after the
City Newsboys, has again settled down into
her self-chosen secretarial job, after extended
inspections of social work in other parts of
the world. The new club building is near-
ing completion, and Edith has already in-
stalled herself in a smart blue crib. She
discovered during her travels that the Aus-
tralian city boy is very well looked after —
much better, in fact, than in any of the
great centres she visited. She is anxious to
help fill Australia with some of cold Eng-
land’s smaller units. Her fervent appeals
secured the financial aid of May Parker in
London, and a small contingent of boys have
already been shipped out at private expense.
They are now learning the right way to
plough and milk in country districts. The
assistance of other rich women has been pro-
mised, and the good work looks like going on.
After all, the most desirable sort of male
immigrant is the one that is caught young
and ouickly converted from his blind faith in
the Ma country.
Mrs Reggie Weigall, wife of the medico,
having celebrated her silver wedding, is off
to England to show her relations how lightly
the quarter century of matrimony in Aus-
tralia has touched her. The hankies waved
on the day of departure will be wet with
heartfelt weeps. Pa himself will have a
towel.
Bess Norris Tait is already looking round
for a suitable roof to shelter her painting
kit, seeing that a number of people are
anxiously awaiting reproduction of their
faces in miniature. Bess is delighted to get
back for a time, and has brought along her
small son Gilbert to renew acquaintance
with Grandpa. In London, the little artist
was kept busy with eager sitters. The Tait
cot there is pitched in a bit of old Chelsea
which has been carefully preserved by Cap-
tain Sloan-Stanley in the capacity of pro-
prietor. They have for next-door neighbor
novelist William de Morgan. They have
secured the right to return, after a six
months’ stay in Australia, by leaving the
household gods under lock and key.
Brigadier-General Mainsford Hannard (he
had only climbed as far as Major when sol-
diering in Victoria, years ago) is preparing
to hand over Miss Majorie to the keeping of
Mr. Grey Fisher-Rowe, in the orthodox way,
before a large London audience. The Briga-
dier’s missus was a daughter of the late
medico Wilkie, who for years brightened
Collins-street with a well-polished brass
plate. The marriage took place in this city
with a great flourish of trumpets or organ
pipes.
The Alfred Hospital is suffering from the
usual financial trouble, i.e., overdraft. The
Gaud Mayor, this week, presided over a talk
re ways and means of putting things right,
and the committee fixed on a mask and
domino revel as the most likely way of rak-
ing in cash. The last affair realised over
£6OO, and tremendous efforts will be made
to beat this record. July Bis the date to re-
member, if you wish to be charitable.
After being the star attractions at a few
social events, Mrs. Galbraith Moore and
daughter Mrs. Herbert Maddocks spread
themselves before a mass of Autumn foliage,
in the best room of the Oriental, and mur-
mured their good-byes in a carefully-heated
atmosphere. Mrs. Moore was upholstered in
blue, while her daughter was smartly
tailored. Mrs. D’Ebro brought her Essa, and
Frank Madden’s dame was followed by a
procession of daughters. Edward Miller’s
wife, her well-groomed white hair becomingly
hatted in black, exchanged small talk with
Mrs. Tate Sutherland and Agar Wynne’s
plump consort. Handsome Vair Dodds and
a decorative Schneiders girl were pleasing
items in the gathering. The hostessing
pair have since steamed off to Ceylon, where
domestic responsibilities await them.
Artist George Power, who is anxiously
searching for a suitable somewhere to exhibit
a few acres of canvas, is a Maoriland lad and
the son of a picture-making father. When
George first came to Victoria, he earned a
crust on various Gippsland farms, and mixed
colors as a recreation. Tiring of the coun-
try, he joined a brother in Adelaide, and had
a shot at electrical engineering, but, being
absent-minded regarding positive and nega-
tive currents —or something of the kind —he
switched off. Later he acquired a wife, and
journeyed to London. There for vears he
has devoted himself to animal study on can-
vas He is blessed with a whimsical mode
of speech, and his studio by the Thames has
been a nopular calling-place with Fogbound
Australians.
Minister Aleck Peacock has spent the last
Week or so in bitter conflict with a tempera-
ture, due probably to his recent interview
with a deputation of excited females. Said
deputation was headed by Eleanor Cameron
and Beatrice Hall, both of whom are per-
turbed over the girl typiste’s future. The
deputation desired special consideration for
typistes, apart from clerks. Poor Peacock,
driven to desneration, begged for time to
spread his tail and consider. Then he took
to his bed, and somebody piled ice on his
brow and wedged hot-water bottles against
his feet. And when the city typistes are not
pounding their machines, while feeling with
one hand to make sure their hair isn’t com-
ing down, they munch chocolates, sneak a
look at their library books, and wonder if
Peacock is feeling better.
The public schools’ boat races happened
last Friday and Saturday, on the hard-
worked Yarra. Girls’ schools were given a
special half-holiday on Friday, so all the
able-bodied flappers in Melbourne were pre-
sent. Melbourne’s best sports were also on
hand, wearing yards of colored ribbon, and
trampling the riverside mud like infuriated
buffaloes. Geelong’s Best Families —includ-
ing Austins, Armytages, Bells, Chirnsides
and Richardsons —motored up from the little
city of scandals. In the mornings, the
motors oiled round the city, gay with rib-
bons and bulging with shouting schoolboys.
Later on, they served as impromptu grand-
stands during the watery sprints.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
A. R. Addison, M.L.C., was flung violently out of
his trap on Monday, at Orroroo, owing to the need-
lessly giddy conduct of the horse. One of his legs
was broken, and he sustained many bruises. But
what of it? He is comparatively well and posi-
tively happy. It takes more than a mere horse to
kill one of our M’s.L.C.
Heinecke’s orchestral concerts filled the Exhibition
on Saturday evening. Mrs. C. H. Angas was with
the Government House party. The Oulrosses brought
Miss Burston, and various school-girls had been taken
along to be edified. It is a strenuous job this of
being edified by means of classical music in the
depths of winter.
Miss Hodge and Miss Newcomb, two of England’s
most militant suffragettes, are among us. Miss
Hodge is an eloquent speaker, and puts up an over-
whelming case for broken windows, damaged letters,
incendiarism and assault and battery and so forth.
Mrs. J. P. Morice invited a few people to meet her
and her colleague at afternoon tea. They were
rather disappointing. They looked as mild as a
couple of elderly gentlemen, and they didn’t smash
so much as a tea cup.
Captain and Mrs. Ogilvie, of Melbourne, are at the
South Australian Hotel. Two of their daughters,
Mrs. Graham and Mrs. John Corbin, live here as' a
matter of habit.
Mrs. Theodore Bruce and her daughter leave on
the Orsova on May 16.
Dr. E. G. Evelyn O’Leary, who is staying for a
month or so at Glenelg with his brother, Dr. A. P.
E. O’Leary* was surgeon aboard the Sutlej at the
time of the Messina earthquake. His shin was the
first to arrive after Nature blew its head off, and he
was the first naval surgeon to get ashore and start
work. The job of attending to 27,000, more or less,
dead or dying people—which was the one that faced
him—comes to but few members of his profession.
He is now fleet surgeon at Hongkong.
Mr. J. F. Mellor, who died at Fulham on Sunday: “
was born in Adelaide in ’45. Education, animals and
horticulture were his hobbies, and he was one of
the foundation members of the S.P.C.A. As a mem-
ber of the Royal Agricultural and H n ,n n
Society he gave most of his attention to pouUry
better.' L “’ ° f Hermita^e > Roke, is gettin?
There is nothing like being thorough n.K
night, at a meeting, after the usual . °^ er
of thanks had been moved and seconded
man called for an amendment. None was
ing so he put the motion, and then called for “Th 0 " 1 '
on the contrary.” There weren’t anv Those
Archbishop O’Reily’s uibilee celebration
great success entirely. All classes of the common
were represented in it, the prelate being highh “n y
humor. ** man> ° f Wide int «ests g an y d P £
Mr. Archibald Mackie, who died last
one of the earliest members of the CommercTai Tra*?
lers Association, and was appointed
tary in ’92. He took an active interest
affairs, and filled in his spare time with W= Ub
writing. With Editor Sowden, of thl
was mainly responsible for the formation of as i
branch of the Wattle Day League 1 a
The committee of the Society of Arts issued invi-
tations for a private view of this vpnr’= lnvi '
Thursday afternoon. The president of t®
Mr. John White, received the Bosanquets and H
declared the exhibition well and truly open Th ® X '
Sn5 e wo'k UP “ S, “ d " d - “* thm “ “**Wt
Athelnev, Mr Herbert Hughes’s house at Hacknev
has been "furbished up m honor of the eominl } ’
of Margaret the one and only (also ?he ve”y hand
some) Hughes daughter. She has come hack
London with a marvellous collection of frocks f n
Friday night a dance was given by her peonle in
order that at least one of the garments might earn
its due meed of admiration. s earn
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


n\s-w:
>
A
Z
mm
■
t®
K
■
'l® ' j , ±1
if®
mm
A
.
,
;m.7-
MUM
■V
■>s
*A\ ..
5f
- ■
: : - . - * '
. ■•■ V
:
, r. ■
;
' 1 ; ••' j- ,
- A- ;. fJ • ■ ' A
'* •- ' - v* • V* - 0 ■■’:> '■ ■ -A
' ’ .
A
A
>• .. ■ / \ ' /..
.■ v AA7 :
\
-
•fe,?
,
§
® - ■
/
w m
* •
■JK
11
5
• >
. '' J'
(ZOL
■ . *
' Lt
M .
X-'
Ml'
• ■ %
,
■
*^£r
■ «
$ *****, »|
v ' . ~ ' «
--JI
...
A' !
-Jr • /.. w .v
-
. *X‘■
•• X?-
m m Ms, IA
'0
:■■■■:■■
sm
■
J
a
SO CAN YOU
enjoy the magnificent Mountain Scenery, and breathe the fresh,
invigorating air.
At ‘‘THE CARRINGTON”—the most luxurious Hotel on the
Mountains every City comfort is provided for visitors.
Electric Light, Water Supply, and Ventilating Plant. The
Ga: age is one of the finest out of Sydney; each Car being stabled
under separate lock and key.
There is a modern Hydropathic Department, with an expert
Masseur in charge, to treat Ladies and Gentlemen residing at
“THE CARRINGTON” according to Medical instructions.
The whole Hotel is equipped in lavish style, and commands a
magnificent view of Katoomba and surroundings.
It is handy to the Station, and to all principal sights.
For a happy, healthy holiday, a stay at “THE CARRINGTON”
offers unique advantages.
Tariff—£3 10s. per week ; 12s. 6d. per day.
TO JENOLAN CAVES BY MOTOR.
A service of luxurious “Itala” Cars runs daily to the Jenolan
Caves. This is one of the most beautiful trips imaginable.
Return Fare, £2.
Full information from the City Office,
18 Imperial Arcade,
Pitt Street, SYDNEY.


AT ALL TIMES
DRINK
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER
A.ND
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
THEY ARE THE BEST.
The aboriginal who obtained compensation for the
loss of his gin (B. S/5/’l3), got some sort of satis-
faction out of the dog. But the man who loses half
his wheat or spuds by reason of leaky bags, gets no
satisfaction out of 'the scale when he weighs in light.
Holiness counts for righteousness, they say —but not
in sacks. A fool can make money ; it takes a wise
man to keep it. The settler on the land .earns every
penny by the sweat of his brow. If" his sacks leak
his profits will leak also. Win not try the sack
specialists in Sussex 'Street. Here is the address:
T. Smith, Ltd., Sussex gftrefet, Sydney.*
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES
are a positive cure for Indigestion, Flatulency Heart
burn. Acidity of Stomach, and all Stomach T '
Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. per tin. Obtainable
everywhere.*
s
manna
Our large stock of the
latest Trusses for all
kinds of Hernia is a
real boon to sufferers.
Denyer’s Special Elastic
Truss, fitted to size,
ends all trouble, dis-
comfort and fear. gingle 17/0, Double 22/m
Call or Write. 'others from 3/6.
Experienced Lady and Centlemen Fitters.
DRNYRR BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal Belt Makers,
281 George St. (<w H,mte. st.\ Sydney
bvn
POLITICAL
POINTS
Apparently New China is very like Young
Turkey and Reformed Persia. Turkey
started a fine, fresh, nicely-burnished Con-
stitution, and deposed the old Sultan, Abdul
Horrors; and then it had a dozen massacres
and a great war and a great burst. Persia
got up out of the ash-heap of ages, and
blew the dust off itself, and founded a Par-
liament, and had two or three civil wars,
and burst. In China the two great patriots,
Sun Yat Sen and President Yuan Shih Kai
have quarrelled, and a civil war between
north and south appears inevitable. Parlia-
mentary Government is, apparently, not in
the Asiatic’s line of business.
GRANNIE'S DAFLING.
His energy is capable of embracing the continent.
Selif-educated to a degree which many schoolmen
might envy. Well and widely read, a developed poli-
tical student, a keen, astute financier, a diligent and
successful administrator, a vigorous, incisive debater,
a vigilant, genial leader, a watchful, hard-hitting,
unyielding opponent.— Melb. Argus on Joe Cook.
GRANNIE: “ There , now! What with the
brushin' an' cleanin' and 'elp I'm givin'
yer, yer should get on delightful . ”
One Noah (not he of the Ark) was sued
recently at the (Hebe (Sydney) for ! the
arrears or ruins of his rent. He said that
lie earned £8 a week as a painter, and the
hire _of his house had been shot up from 2os.
to 355. a week. It was hard on Noah, but
when a State of 310,000 square miles adopts
a steady policy of shoving all its foreign
commerce, and all its manufactures, and all
its finance, and half its population into one
city, the only nossible object is to force up
property values. And that can only mean
the forcing up of Noah’s rent. The reason
why the settler about Bombala has to pay
freight on his exports for 10 times as many
miles as he need do, is that the burning de-
sire of the State is to shove up Noah’s rent
in Sydney. And if Noah’s rent didn’t go
up, the whole scheme, would be a failure.
A feature of the Dominions Royal Com-
mission is the cropping up, in unexpected
places, of arguments in favor of the Refer-
enda. In Melbourne, Chief Customs Clerk
Oakley spoke of the difficulty in treating
British trade with “seven different agencies
dealing with Australian commerce,” and vie-
ing with each other in London. Admiral
Creswell pointed out the disadvantages of
divided control of the harbors —it was, a Very
serious matter from a Defence point of view.
Chief Vic. Immigration Officer Whitehead re-
marked that the Victorian Government was
in favor of “centralising the immigration
work of all States. It was considered that
the Federal Government could act for the
whole of Australia.” And what these men
say is all the more significant , because they
are experts each at his own job, and not one
of them is suspected of having the smallest
idea that he was pushing into a current
political argument.
[George Lee, 27 Portland-place, South Yarra;
Melbourne.]
A TERRIBLE STATE OF MIND.
Liberalism is more than a theory of government,
or even a programme. It is a state of mind.
It should certainly be put a stop to, anyway.
[CECIL L. HARTT, c/o THE BULLETIN. Office, Sydney.]
The Labor people, according
to C. G. Wade, at Parramatta,
“propose to nationalise all
monopolies” ; and he adds that,
if the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment is given that power, the
change will lead to “graft and
corruption and the reign of
Tammany.” Now, the States
have the same powers as the
Commonwealth now asks for,
each within its own jurisdic-
tion ; and if Labor “proposes
to nationalise all monopolies,”
innocuous and otherwise, how
is it that it hasn’t done or at-
tempted to do what Wade
alleges that it is hankering to
do, seeing that it has been in
office in N. S. Wales during the
past three years? Also, it has
been in power in Westralia for
quite a long while now; and
where is there any proof of
“graft and corruption and the
rule of Tammany” there? Wade
and the Liberal party, are faced
with this alternative: either
the States haven’t got the ne-
cessary power to deal with
trusts and combines which the
Liberals say they have, or, if
they have that power, then on
its actual record (running up
to three years in N. S. Wales),
the Labor party doesn’t want
to do the dreadful things with
trusts and combines which the
Liberals say it does.
[S. H. Prior. The Bulletin Office,
Sydney.]
The Australian Government has devised
a scheme whereby advances are to be made
UP tP £BOO, at 4 per cent., to settlers ill the
Northern Territory. And now if the said
Government would only devise a scheme
b which a train would advance at a reason-
aWe pace int() the Territory, everything in the
garden would be lovely. But the Adam and
]g ve 0 f the North are always running up
against the serpent of isolation, and that
depressing, footless beast chases them out of
Paradise just when they would like to settle
down and raise Cain .
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
The cry of Senator Gould :
There is a strong feeling in the Old Country in
favor of separate Parliaments for England, Scotland,
Ireland and Wales to deal with local affairs, leaving
it to the Parliament at Westminster to deal with
national concerns. But in this huge country the
Labor party is trying to do the reverse of that, and
control everything from one centre.
The truth may be elastic, but it shouldn’t
be strained too far. The British Parlia-
ment, being responsible for the British
islands, and to some extent for India and
the Crown Colonies, has a gigantic job on
hand. So there is an idea of creating cer-
tain subordinate Parliaments, with such
powers as the Central Parliament allows
them. And that is exactly what the Uni-
fication and Reconstruction party wants to
do in Australia. It has been discovered
that a house with seven mistresses, or a
business with seven bosses, or a mouse with
seven cats, doesn’t get on well, and it costs
a terrible amount in law charges to decide
which mistress or which boss or which cat
is right. So it is proposed to have a supreme
Government, which will delegate the bulk of
its work to 20 or more subordinate
Governments. But when a conflict of au-
thority arises the Central Parliament will
decide right off, instead of the matter being
argued out for nine months by 24 solicitors
and 10 barristers before six irresponsible
judges. In short, Australia wants to do
just what Britain does with regard to its
Crown Colonies, and what it thinks of doing
with regard to England, Scotland. Ireland
and Wales.' And if British precedent isn’t
good enough for us, what is the matter with
us —swelled head or otherwise?
> [James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
In the turmoil of the Federal elections the
selection of half the members of Victoria’s
House of Fat, on June 4, is
almost overlooked. In a few
cases Labor is opposing the re-
tiring Landlord. Minister Ed-
gar is one of the challenged.
His seat covers the Assembly
electorates of Port, Williams-
town, Flemington and Norths
Melbourne, all held by Labor
members, so the Laborite pitted
against him has chances. Ed-
gar is a fearfully busy man,
who motors all over the State
at a great pace, and looks like
an affluent crack splitting
through the atmosphere. Poli-
tically he hasn’t done anything,
though he has been on the job
for a long while, but he has the
gift of looking more like a man
who is almost going to start
doing something than many men who have
done a lot of things.
John Cooke, the big frozen meat exporter,
gave the Dominions Commission some
seasonable evidence in Melbourne, and inci-
dentally furnished the true-blue Imperialist
with something to chew over: —
It would be a bad day for the Empire when its :
meat supply came under the control of dangerous
combinations, whose interests in times of stress might
leave the masses of the Old Country in a state not
far removed from starvation. Great" foreign operators
had obtained a large slice of the Argentina meat
trade with England, and agents were similarly en-
gaged in Australia. North America had obtained
great predominance in Argentina. The danger was a
national one. The object of combines was to obtain
entire control of the British market. The supplies
might become so scarce as to warrant steos being
taken to save the world from the danger of partial
starvation. American Arms had had agents there
for a number of years ; they had been very active in
endeavoring to acquire business and sites for works,
and had obtained one site in Queensland and made
inquiries in other States.
In short, the carrying of the Referenda,
which will enable the Commonwealth to
guarantee Bull at least one chop for his
breakfast, may yet prove a better gift to the
old man than a fleet of Dreadnoughts.
[Patrick Thomas F'reeman, 22 Cleveland-street,
Darlington, Sydney.]
THE OBJECTIONABLE BUNDLE.
THE FRENZIED ONE: " Drop it! Drop it!
you little varmint !”
[FRANK JESSUP, 52 Renwick-street, Leichhardt,
Sydney.]
The lawful signature appears at the end :
Consider the Fusion,’ its candidates and its press
supporters In Maribyrnong (Vic.), as a case in
point, Hume Cook is promising the highest of high
Protection ; while his more or less esteemed Freetrade
leader, Joe Cook, announces that the tariff has been
sunk, or drowned, or‘something. H. Cook is strongly
, in favor of the Initiative and Referendum ; J. Cook
A regards the initiative and Referendum with scorn.
Then we'have tile Fusion speaking with two or more
voices on the subject of Old Age Pensions, which are
favored by Hume Cook and others, while Irvine, the
brains of the F’usion, reckons that all “Treasury
doles” tend to sap the manhood of the nation and
destroy its sturdy independence. The Fusion’s press
barrackers display a similar unanimous disagreement.
The Argus wants Palmer returned for Echuca, be-
cause it admires him tremendously; while the Age
reckons that Palmer’s name is synonymous with Mud.
The Age loves ,Mauger ; the Argus loathes him. The
Age is supporting the Fusion because it professes to
believe that it will obtain higher Protective duties
from this party led by a Freetrader. The Argus
supports the Fits'on because it considers that F’ree-
tection (the wine of Protection diluted with the
water of Freetrade) is safe in its (the Fusion’s)
hands.
[Albert John Owen, 129 Grey-street, East Mel-
bourne. ]
Socialism is loose again. At a meeting 0 f
representatives of Gippsland (Vic.) coun-
cils, the following resolutions were passed
unanimously, after the Labor party and all
its works had been duly denounced:
(1) That the State be asked to restore the forests
that have been denuded.
(2) r lhat the State be asked to construct a linp tn
lines UP the existing South and North Gippsland
(3) That, owing to the spread of rabbits, THF
State be asked to furnish land-owners with wire
netting, by establishing a wire-netting factory and
that the said wire-netting be sold to the land-owners
at cost pr ce.
(4) That THE STATE be asked to establish a
seed-testing ground under the Pure Seeds Act. '
Won't Spruce Myth or Ko Chook or some-
body come along and tell the backbone of
the country that Private Enterprise is th e
party it should look to —to supply wire-net-
ting at cost price, for instance?
[L. L. McKenzie, Koruniburra, Vic,]
CONDEMNED OUT OF HIS OWE
MOUTH.
They are a set of political purloiners. (Laughter
and cheers.) They have taken our schemes —defence,
Federal capital, old-age pensions, etc —and filled them
in as we left them, and now they say they are theirs.
But the only thina they have done worth cons dering
they have done wrongly. The land tax is theirs, cer-
tainly. That is a piece of their own original stuff.
L. B.M.: “ Well, selp me , Joe , you are a
modest chap. But I certainly think the
first three were pietty helpful."
Significant remark by Gregory Wade the
other night at Parramatta, where he was
warning the inhabitants not to trust them-
selves with the power to make their own
law T s in their own national Parliament: —
Was it not the experience of every country that
adopted State mononolies that the article was in-
ferior and very often dearer than could be produced
under the competitive system ?
Presumably, then, Wade is in favor of the
railways, tramways, post and telegraph office,
and a few other State monopolies being
handed over to “the competitive system.”
[Written off his own bat, so to speak, and in
green ink, by John Barr, The Bulletin Office, Syd-
ney —all except the last word or two, the writer
being called away to consult with the financial
editor. Finished in red ink by Ernest O’Ferrall
(same address), because W. H. East, chief of the
composing department, wanted copy and was grow- 1
ing excited. Passed without alteration, by John
Bede Dalley (same old address), and sent upstairs
to pacify W. H. East aforesaid, by the hands of
Edward* Dickenson, military cadet, the lift being
out of order.]
A person with a well-advertised grievance
is one Sellars, of England, who went with
his family to Maoriland without, apparently,
taking the trouble to find out if the
laws of the place would suit him. Finding
that Maoriland had compulsory education
compulsory military education, that is
Sellars and his family sagged hack to Eng-
land, and told the ixmdon Daily News that
they had “lost everything save their self-
respect.” When a runaway or desertei
puts on airs of this sort it is rather oppres-
sive, and in any case the Sellars crowd hadn t
lost quite everythin?' save its self-respect. 11-
still had its luggage and its passage money
and its cheek. And now it has gone back
to a country which has a compulsory train-
ing law, though that law isn’t enforced at
present, and which has compulsory taxation
to pay for soldiers, which doesn’t seem so
very different from compulsory soldiering
when you consider the thing carefully. Also,
it has left Maoriland, which regarded Mrs.
Sellars as a sane human being, and gave her
a share in the political management of tne
country, to return to England, which classes
that lady as a lunatic or a cow, so far as con-
cerns her right to a voice in deciding wnat
sort of government she will live under. " hen
Mrs. Sellars ranks politically with a cow or
a horse, how does her self-respect ge
along?
[James Edmond, The Bulletin Office, Sydner-u
compulsory military service is a Federal elec
issue, which it may be, and again it may not,
again no one may be quite sure whether i *
isn’t, consequently legal opinion may he necessary.!
TRUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time has gone when it is safe to leave polities
to the politicians. No man or woman who believes
in Liberalism can afford to stay away from the poll-
ing-booth. Indifference may cost too much. —Argus.
There used to be a golden time,
A perfectly sublime condition,
When folk in this idyllic clime
Could trust the splendid politician;
When man went with a careless heart
Attending to his daily part ;
When confidence was in the land.
And better classes were content.
F’or God was in His heaven, and
The right men were in Parliament.
You did not need your vote at all.
In point of fact, in many cases
You hadn’t such a thing. At call
The noblest took the ruling places.
Then Capital but seldom ran
To Swat, or York, or Yucatan ;
Then Labor to his proper lord
Took off a most obsequious hat,
And an inflamed Australian horde
Had not essayed to fret its Fat.
Oh, happy day when safe and sure
Were all the portly legislators,
And both our Houses were secure
F’rom unionists and agitators,
When by one class the laws were made,
And by the other class obeyed!
The Tory now our people sues
With an inspiring gospel thus:
“You cannot trust the men you choose ;
You cannot trust yourselves. Trust us!”
[EDWARD DYSON.
164 Barkly-street, St. Hilda, Mel-
bourne.]


The longer each Running Part
of an Automobile lasts the lower
is the Maintenance Expense,
tjlf the moving parts last for 50,000
miles they are eliminated from the
expense account for that length of
time.
If they last 25,000, not only bear-
mgs, but the labor of replacing them,
must be paid for twice as often.
The economical car is the one
whose various moving parts are
lubricated by Gargoyle Mobiloils.
The most costly oils to produce, yet
the cheapest per year.
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
ELEGANCE
WITH
EASE.
vbnv
per 251-
pair.
(Add 1/- Postage.)
A TYPICAL EXAMPLE
of the Unbeatable Value we Provide.
Made in Patent Colt, with Dull Kid Leg's, a really elegant
model —one of the smartest ever offered. Our new Price
List illustrates many others —ask for a copy.
Remember —Every Pair Guaranteed.
Mail Order Department,
14 and 16 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE:.
Books for Architects.
Wb will be very pleased to show any of our books to all
interested in the beautification and building of
Greater Sydney and Suburbs. Some portfolios of
superb designs in German and French Architecture
are offered cheap.
DOUBLE POSTAGE KATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
MODERN DWELLINGS: A Book of 107 Practical De-
signs and Plans. These are American residences,
models of architectural beauty, and two to four
storeys in height, by G. F. Barber. A valuable
book of suggestions for Architects. Formerly 7/6 2/6
MODERN ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNS AND DE-
TAILS : Gives details of exterior and interior wood-
work, drawn to scale, etc. Former price, 16/- .. 4/-
THE DECORATION OF HOUSES, by Wharton and
Codman .. .. .. .. .. .. 157-
MODERN MURAL DECORATION, by A. Lys Baldry.
Profusely illustrated .. .. .. .. .. 12/6
DISTINCTIVE HOMES OF MODERATE COST: With
300 illustrations, exteriors of houses arid garden
settings, and of the principal rooms inside. All
from photos, of houses built by H. H. Saylor .. *()/-
COMMONSENSE HOMES: A Practical Book on the
essential equipment and treatment of the home on the
most modern lines, by Spencer Sills .. .. (;/_
“DER ARCHITEKT”: Portfolio of 120 Magnificent
Designs of Buildings and interiors. Size, 15 x 12.
Former Price, 22/6, NOW .. .. .. 15/-
(Inter-State Postage on this is 3/2.)
VILLAS ET PETTITES CONSTRUCTIONS, by Lam-
bert: Portfolio, containing 70 Sheets of Designs,
Floor Plans, and Description of Small and Large
Villas and Houses of Beautiful Design. Man}' of
them superbly reproduced from photos, in Collo-
type. Former price, £2/2/- .. .. .. 15/-
(Inter-State Postage, 3/8./
We have many other Portfolios of Special merit that
all Architects and Decorators are invited to call here and
examine.
CASSELL’S REINFORCED CONCRETE, 1913, by
Jones and Lakeman ..
Post.
3d.
7d.
4(1.
6(1.
7(1.
6(1.
1/9
2/-
18/-
9(1.
New Supplies of CALIFORNIAN BUNGALOW BOOKS just arrived.
Eight varieties at 1)3, I\9, 2/- and 2/6 each.
(Postage from id. to 3d. each extra.)
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPOT,
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
P4THES Home Cinematograph
SrAoss/Ae tror/t/
m/oyour <frdw/)$roo/i7 "
I
V!
Booklet and
Pull
Particulars
of Machine
and Picture
Films are
sent free.
Use Coupon
Below.
No matter where your drawing-room is—in the centre of a city, in the suburbs,
or right away out in the country, the Pathe Home Cinematograph can be used with
equal advantage—because it
MAKES ITS OWN LIGHT
and is independent of any other light—oil, gas or electricity. This point is one that
the public should remember. The production of the light is one of the features of the
Pathe Home Cinematograph, which is found in no other cinematograph, but which
is absolutely essential to success in Home Cinematography.
Another important feature is that the
PICTURE FILMS ARE NON-INFLAMMABLE.
They will not burn in any circumstances. This fact, in conjunction with the safe
method of light production, eliminates entirely any danger from fire—a fact recog-
nised by all the fire insurance companies of Victoria, who make no extra charge if a
Pathe Home Cinematograph is in the house.
Consider these points carefully. The closer you examine the Pathe Home
Cinematograph and its advantages, the more you will appreciate its utility, its
strength, its educative influence, its success as a home entertainer, and its absolute
safety.
Write for Booklet telling you more about this delightful Home Entertainer.
Send this coupon to us or any of our agents.
PATHE FRERES,
27 Alliance Buildings,
48 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BIRCH & CARROLL, Edward Street, Bris-
bane; S. SPURLINC & SON, 93 Brisbane
Street, Launceston; OPTICAL & PHOTO
SUPPLIES CO., 672 Hay Street, Perth;
orC. W. FRASER & CO , 139 York Street,
Sydney; HARRINGTONS (N.Z.) LTD., 42 Willis
Street, Wellington, N.Z. ; HARRINGTONS
(N Z ) LTD., Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z. ;
W PARK, Stationer, Palmerston North,
N.Z.; C. R. FOREMAN & CO., Napier, N.Z.
CUT OUT AND POST TO-DAY
Please send me particulars of Pathe s
Home Cinematograph.
Name
Address


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
SAW
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint -
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
FORTY WORMS
FROM A TWO-YEAR-OLD CHILD.
FROM TEN TO FOURTEEN INCHES
LONG.
The general ill-health of many children
due to the presence of worms, and pare
should keep a sharp eye on their children
there is a suspicion of their presence. ■«-
wonderful effectiveness of Comstock s P
Shof’ Worm Pellets is strikingly illustrated
in the statement of Mrs. Jonikait, opt al . ~j
New Zealand, whose little girl got rid ot
worms of large size. Mrs. Jonikait sie
is as follows :
“I am still giving Comstock’s ‘Dead hhot
Worm Pellets to my little girl and boj,
they are both improving in health since
ing these Pellets. The little girl is J us h .
years old, and since taking your medicine
she has passed 40 worms. They ha\e \
all very large (from 10 to 14 inches kngh
I hope by still using your A orm Pellets tna
she will soon be rid of them all. y p ;
last week, after taking one dose ot tne y
lets, she passed nine worms. I yean
on using Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot A Ol
lets till the children are cured of the worm
for I think they are dreadful things
children to have. You have my permission
to publish this letter.” _ .
Parents need have no fear in a(ial ''jj D g
ing this remedy to their children according
to directions, for it is purely vegetaD ' w,
sale by all chemists, price 2s. 9d..per P . e
or will be.sent post paid on receipt
by The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 2d han P
Street, Church Hill, Sydney.*
STAMMERERS.
Write MR. W. A. YEARSLEY,
Bowen Terrace- j.^
ST. HILDA ROAD, MELBOURNE
Under special appointment as expert on Speech Defects to the Municipal Education .
of England, by special sanction of the Board of Education. Demonstration of f® ol s pecsal
the British Medical Association. Awarded Gold Medal for excellency of method. n
appointment as speech specialist to the Department of Education, South Africa.
The fullest information sent post free to all enquiries.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Precisely at 9.32 p.m. on Saturday night
a huge, slush-covered 50-h.p. “American” motor-car
swung into Martin-place, Sydney, and came to a stop
in front of the Automobile Club’s rooms. It was the
muddiest motor-car seen in Martin-place for many a
day, and small wonder, for it was covered with the
slush of two States, which it had been accumulating
all the way from Melbourne for 19hr. 2min. It
would have been muddier still but for the fact that
heavy rain had washed away the surface of the ac-
cumulation. A feature of the car was the huge
searchlight which threw a glare far ahead of the
ordinary headlamps. Such was the state in which
Mr. A. V. Turner arrived in Sydney after breaking
45 minutes off Mr. White’s Sydney to Melbourne
record. It was raining when he left Melbourne at
2.30 a.m. Saturday morning, and it was still raining
when he arrived at Martin-place at 9.32 p.m., and it
seems to have rained most of the interval. It must
have been a hideous trip, though the re*>rd-breaker
and his companion made light of it. The run, won-
derful as it was, would have been even better but
for unavoidable accidents to the tyres. Four stop-
pages over tyre troubles lost altogether close upon
two hours. In one place the car skidded into a fence
and the back tyre was ripped right off. In another
place the wheel smote a broken bottle, which sliced
the cover almost in two. The great flaring search-
light was not altogether a success. It was too long
in the range, and magnified mud ridges into hills
and V-watercourses into culvert holes, from which
the pipes had been washed away. The engine ran
magnificently, and the actual pace made was over 34
miles an hour. The delay over the accidents reduced
it to about 30 miles 92 yards per hour. It was a
marvellous performance anyhow it is taken, and
the weather conditions under which it was accom-
plished enhance the glory considerably.
* * * *
Another good run was that put up be-
tween Adelaide and Broken Hill on Saturday last,
when A. S. Cheney petrolled over the 335 miles in
13hr. 55min. This means an average speed of 36
miles 85yds. per hour, which, considering there were
88 gates to open and shut on the way, was good
going. The previous best was 16 hours, but that
may have been due to the fact that there are 98
gates on the road, and the previous man may have
had to open and shut the lot. Cheney was lucky
to find 10 gates open.
* * * *
There is talk of a Motor Cycle Reliability
run from Adelaide to Melbourne, 574 miles, next
Christmas. N.S.W. and Victorian clubs hold an
annual run between Sydney and Melbourne at that
time, and there is danger that the two fixtures may
clash if held at the same time. The Victorian riders
are willing to back up the new idea if the run is
held at Easter time, but the double event at Christ-
mas is not greeted with joy. A good prize list has
been offered tentatively, and providing a suitable
date can be agreed upon, there is little doubt the
fixture will be established.
* * * *
There are some things they do better in
France, even as they did in Laurence Sterne’s day.
As each type of motor vehicle has become perfected
the military authorities have adopted it for whatever
warlike purpose it is best fitted. At last manoeuvres
bread, meat, ammunition, camping material, and all
other munitions were rushed along on motor vehicles,
and one full army corps depended upon no other kind
of trap. Its light and heavy and machine artillery
were moved by or on motor-tractors Or bikes or cars.
Now the newly-developed little cycle-car has been
utilised for Red Cross work. Its narrow gauge
enables it to traverse lanes and run behind hedges
picking up wounded soldiers and transferring them
from the fighting line to the big motor-ambulances
in the rear. And its speed is at least three times as
great as that of the horse ambulance.
* * * *■ *
The present day speed king considers
himself very large potatoes, but it might reduce the
size of his head to look back a few years. In 1908
a race took place between a Fiat and Naoier on
Brooklands track, and the English car averaged 121.64
miles per hour, a speed that has not been beaten by
the speediest of them all. That was the average
pace. At one time the flier must have been shooting
itself along at over 130 miles per hour.
* * * *
The star match of the Sydney Rugby
League campaign on Saturday was the scrap between
South Sydney and Annandale at the Sports Ground.
The baby club threw itself at the Southern veterans
with a dash and elan, not to say slam, that were
magnificent. South attacked from the kick off, its
pack beating Annandale for the ball. But the Annan-
dale defence was splendid, its tackling superb, and
the head of every concerted movement on the part of
South was pulled down ruthlessly. After a great
struggle Annandale centred and endeavored to de-
velop an attack of its own, but failed. A mix-up
or shandygaff or cocktail ensued, and Annandale’s
front line got scattered. The veterans of South
Sydney seized the ball and started a splendid move-
ment, which suddenly fell to pieces, and both sides
reeled back momentarily winded. Then they closed
again, and the shout was “Horder, Horder!” as the
South Sydney back dashed through the racing Annan-
dale men. Eluding them all, he was just about
to cross the line. But the figure of Challis swept
down, like a Hebrew presenting an overdue promis-
sory note, and then no more of Horder. The Annan-
dale pack tore along on the wake of a penalty kick
and had South struggling on its own line. A fine
passing move saw the line cleared and the attack
rage right over Annadale’s line, to end in a try.
The extra points were easily added. Annandale blun-
dered badly, recovered itself, and finally scored a
four-point goal. So at the bell South was leading by
one point. Annadale let loose a whole series of
passing charges, which were all pulled down, and
then by a quick, trickv piece of play South scored
again. This was quicklv followed by a successful
penalty kick, and Annandale’s hopes faded right out.
After that it was a struggle on the part of Annandale
to wipe off the margin of six points. At last, in des-
peration, the whole team swarmed together in a solid
mass, and hurled itself on the struggling South line.
A m@l6e ensued and continued till the whistle blew
and both sides wobbled from the field, South victori-
ous by 10 to four. Which was an exaggeration of the
difference in the play.
Another struggle of size was that between
Eastern Suburbs and North Svdney at the Sydney
Agricultural Ground, with 8000 peonle looking on
and veiling. North Svdney rushed the Eastern line,
and East, by good kicking, sent it back again, and
following up, put the Northern men hard on the de-
fensive. The tackling was charming, and North at-
tacked, but failed to get through. Then East de-
veloped a counter attack, which was successful, and
Messenger (the younger) added the points. The
younger Messenger promises to become as mighty a
kicker as his immortal brother, who now runs a
beer emporium. North charged some more, and a
series of beautiful passes saw a Northerner streak
over the Eastern line. But at the critical moment
he lost the inflated leather, and East, getting hold,
swept down the field and scored. This time Messen-
ger failed to add the points, so the first half ended
with East leading by eight to two. Almost immedia-
tely upon resumption North burst the Eastern line
and scored, but missed the kick. After that the two
mobs, locked together, swayed up and down the field
till North was penalised, and Messenger scored a
couple of points on the kick. Hereabouts North
Sydney went mad, with a devil of a lot of method
in its lunacy, and scored, but again missed the
extras. There was only a pair of points now between
the scores, and both sides gave way to cerebral ex-
citement, and played all in. East scored again, but
the try was disallowed. Mad with inflammatory
contemplation, East charged through, and right on
the blast of the whistle scored with the kick, and so
won by 15 points to eight. For the rest, Glebe
bounced Western Suburbs by 19 to nine; and Bal-
main ate up Newtown by seven to two. In the com-
petition, Eastern Suburbs, Glebe, South Sydney and
Balmain have each four points, and North Sydney,
Newtown, Annandale and Western Suburbs are flying
the sign of the hen product.
* * * *
The second round of the Soccer competi-
tion for the Rawson Cup saw some close finishes.
Newtown defeated Glebe by two goals to one; Annan-
dale smashed up Granville by one to nil; Sydney de-
feated Northern Suburbs by two goals to one; and
Balmain walloped Canterbury by four goals to one
—the most decisive victory of the day.
The second round of the Australian Rules
section was made gay and splendid by the debut of
Balmain, in spanking new uniforms of black and
gold. What will those uniforms look like at the end
of the season ? Balmain was lucky ; it scored its ini-
tial match by downing South Sydney by 35 to 31.
North Shore flabbergasted Newtown by 90 to 37 ;
and Paddington wiped out East Sydney by 112 to 67.
In the Union section of the Sydney Rugby
world the attendances were microscopic compared to
the 20,000 or so who had graced the League turnstiles
with their silver. But the play wa.s excellent, and
some of the results startling. The overthrow of
Glebe by Newtown is generally regarded as either a
miracle or the direct intervention of the Devil. Glebe
managed to score a penalty goal in the first half, and
no more, while Newtown, letting loose beautifully
concerted and sustained attacks, swept through the
red ranks and finally won by nine to two. South
Sydney and University played a dead even game, but,
by some accident, South managed to score nine points
to Uni.’s eight. The walloping of Balmain by St.
George was another shock to form, prescience and
general inside knowledge. But there was no mistake
about it, the figures being 13 to seven. Eastern
Suburbs ran over the Western ditto by 12 to five; and
nobody was the least surprised. Neither was there
any astonishment at North Sydney downing Manly by
13 to 10. Or, if there was astonishment, it was at
the stand made by the defeated Villagers.
The joy of refereeing. Pat Bradley's mighty
swipe dodged by Sid Stagg and blocked by
the referee.
In spite of threatening rain and sloppy
grounds, large crowds and pretty play were the rule
on Saturday in Melbourne. The hugest congrega-
tion watched ’Wood demolish Essendon on its own
ground, which disaster to the Premiers was chiefly
due to a want of concerted play. The Magpies held
their opponents comfortably through the first two
quarters. In the third they collared the game and
started the last term with a five-goal lead. Then
the ’Dons revived, and, playing with some system,
methodically put on five goals and one behind, which
would have given them the victory if ’Wood had
not added a goal, making its tally 10 goals 10 be-
hinds to ’Don’s 10 goals five behinds. ’Wood col-
lides with Carlton next Saturday, and, if it can wal-
lop the Old Blues, should have a chance of going
through the season undefeated. Another different
animal from the beast of last season is Richmond,
which went over to South Melbourne and gave the
Red-and-Whites a severe shock. It started off with
the lead and stuck to it almost till the timekeeper
took out his watch for the last lap. Then South
put in a couple of rushes, which yielded behinds,
and thus scored 57 points to Richmond’s 56 —-margin
enough to swear by, but no more. Roy’s previous
week’s awful thrashing by St. Hilda persuaded it
that the time was ripe to do something, so it fell
on Geelong with an axe, so to speak—’Roy, 62
points; Geelong, 43. Still, the Sleepy Hollow men
are a hefty lot, who will hold their own on a dry
day—if there are any dry days. Tiv annual con-
cussions of Carlton and Melbourne used to be cir-
cumstances of note; but those days are gone, and
only a handful of enthusiasts watched Carlton walk
over Melbourne by 79 points to 53. The Students
managed to finish their afternoon’s turmoil only
eight points to the bad—6s to St. Hilda’s 73. It
was something, but counted for no less than if
they had been 80 behind. A substantial win would
be something of a shock to the “Shop.”
The paralyser of the Ass. outbursts was
the rout of the Premiers by the despised P’ran mob.
At half-time ’Don owned 48 points to P’ran’s 37,
which looked satisfactory enough, but when the
scorer ceased work the tale was—’Don, 50 points;
P’ran, 69. Heaven knows what went wrong. The
Premiers were playing all they knew, yet they could
do nothing profitable, while P’ran’s most casual
efforts seemed to reap reward. Brighton displayed
more energy than usual against Port, and went down
by a trifle of three points only—7l to Port’s 74.
North demolished ’Town by 54 to 39 ; ’Wick jumped
on Melb. City with 89 points to 39, and ’Scray trod
with martial stride over ’Cote with 88 to 27.
Rugby football form was singularly con-
sistent in the British Isles during the season just
over. England beat Wales, Scotland and Ireland,
without ever having its line crossed. Wales beat
both the others, and Scotland beat Ireland. All four
beat France, which has lately butted into this com-
petition, and South Africa beat all the lot. The only
shadow of inconsistency was that S’Africa had its
toughest work in beating Wales (a try to nothing),
yet the Frenchmen —who are steadily coming on —
ran Wales to three points.
During the week the League’s new inde-
pendent tribunal invited a well-known Melbourne
player to explain his conduct in the previous week’s
game, and, deeming his remarks unsatisfactory, hung
him out to dry for four weeks with the assurance
that, as a first offender, he might consider himself
lucky. .Also, the Junior Ass. considered the case of
Port Melbourne, Jun., whose players imagined they
had last season been robbed of the premiership, and
had, therefore, flown a private pennant of their own,
in defiance of regulation and fact. The Ass. ordered
the club committee to either publish a disclaimer or
be wiped out till the Day of Judgment. The dis-
claimer was forthcoming, in haste.
* * * «
The Maori team of footballers which will
raid Sydney on June 9, under the auspices of the
N.S.W. Rugby Union, has been picked. It will have
a week’s practice at Rotorua before sailing for Aus-
tralia, and a three days’ spell after arrival to get rid
of its sea legs. Apparently, Union Rugby is not pro-
gressing too rapidly in Maoriland, as no less than 10
of the crowd chosen were members of the 1910 com-
bination which came to Australia. In the days of
Maorilahd’s football glory things were not thus, and
a team of this sort would have been at least half
full of new players. Still, these old birds are not to
be sneezed at, and there is not the slightest doubt
they will make the game quite willing enough.
Brute force and bulldog persistence scored
again at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night when
Pat Bradley settled Sid Stagg in the 13ch round.
Bradley doesn’t pretend to know anything about box-
ing. He is a moving mass of condensed meat, muscle
and bone; against whose anatomy nothing of ordi-
nary human size takes effect so long as he can keep his
jaw and stomach covered. Bradley keeps them covered
accordingly, and rushes in to siog, slog and slog. When
he is tired of that he slogs some more for a change.
Then he batters and bangs. Incidentally he biffs.
He regards his antagonist as something heavy that
has to be removed or wharf-lumped off the premises,
and he wharf-lumps accordingly. He may be knocked
down while doing it, but he just bounces up like an
indiarubber ball, and, landing once more on his feet,
proceeds to bash for a change. Stagg drove a per-
fect and well-loaded straight left, but it wasn’t
heavy enough to undo Bradley. He flashed in upper-
cuts in a way that was beautiful to see, and his
side-stepping, ducking, fending, and quick counter-
attacks were just about perfect. Even the rushing
bull opposed to him used to look at him quizzically
at times. Then he would hurl out a wallop the size of
a carpet bag, cover his jaw with his other hand, and
catch the certain counter on the guard instead of
the jaw. It was clever, though it did look rugged.
In the 12th Bradley got home a bad one that put
Stagg down for nine seconds. Later on he whirled
in a handful of unpleasantness, but Stagg bobbed
down serenely, and Referee Scott, just out of effective
range, got a great deal more of it than he desired.
Had Scott been a trifle closer it would have been
necessary to get another referee to finish the fight.
But if Scott failed to see the joke the crowd did —a
crowd is always amused when an unsuspecting man
has a cathedral fall on him. The fatal wallop was
a beauty, or, possibly, a miracle. They had just
broken away, and Bradley whirled up his left. There
was no time to dodge, and Stagg got it right on the
point, shot backwards, went down crash, and was
counted out.
* * * *
There were wild doings at Brisbane on
Saturday night, when Australian Bill Sonter blew
up against Jack Cordell, from America. The fight
opened very evenly, Sonter attacking and the Yankee
defending with great skill. The sixth campaign saw
Cordell charge at the gong. He met something
which sent his head right back and caused him to
fall forward and bump his forehead on the floor, as
an African does when he prostrates himself before
his idol. But at six he started to struggle up, and
by nine he was on his feet, awaiting the onset. It
came like a whirlwind, but Cordell wandered in and
clinched. Breaking from the clinch he let loose a
gale of blows, which made Sonter turn tail and gal-
lop. The next round Cordell went baresark, ran amuck,
and flew off the handle. Also, he let himself go, and,
incidentally, he blew up. Sonter was overwhelmed
and knocked flat. He rose at eight and was pounded
up to the ropes, where his attempts to smother were
beaten down. The police interfered, and the referee
howled that Sonter was winner, though Sonter could
barely hear him. The crowd howled and the referee
retired, but suddenly he came back and announced
that he had made a mistake in his announcement.
Cordell was the winner. And it looked like it.
The engagement at Sydney Stadium next
Saturday night should be decidely attractive. Her-
bert McCoy meets Alfred Spenceley, one of the party
of fighters who accompanied Mehegan when he re-
turned to Australia recently. McCoy and Mehegan
have never met, and they are both men of such repu-
tation that the Stadium will probably iust about
burst when they do come together. Spenceley is said
by those who have watched him in battle to be about
high water-mark in the way of elusiveness. Whether
he has in the course of his nine victories ever met
a fighter with the pluck and persistency of McCoy it
is impossible to say. The recent rest did McCoy,
who had gone stale, a world of good, and he is now
showing the same brilliant form with which he
dazzled Australian audiences at the beginning of the
season.
The amateur boxing championships in
London this year were a regular orgy of Stoush,
lasting from 10 a,m. till after 11 p.m. without any
sort of interval. There were Danes and Frenchmen
and Hungarians competing, but all five champion-
ships remained in the hands of Britons. The absolute
champion—the heavyweight—was, and still is, Smith,
a London policeman. This year he beat an Irish
mounted-constabulary captain in the semi-final. There
was no final. The other man, also of the London
police, had been so bashed about by a Welshman
while winning his semi that he was unable to take
Smith on.
* * * *
“10-2-4” writes: Jack Massie, the crack
University and inter-State cricketer, who recently
won the amateur heavy-weight boxing championship
of N.S.W., is one of those rare humans on whom
Nature has lavished everything. He is 6ft. 4in. in
height, close on lost, in weight, and as well built
above the waist as Jack Johnson. His legs, being
the legs of a Caucasian, are incomparably better than
those of the Texan calamity; and his feet and hands
are comparatively small, whereas Johnson’s were
enormous. As regards his face and head, he is as
good-looking as an Elinor Glynn hero ; and his man-
ner is as unassuming, withal, as that of one with
a glass eye and a hare-lip. He can’t box for ruined
nuts, but his strength is enormous and his heart is
all right. His simple, forthright method is to pour
blows on his adversary, regardless of the sort of
guard the 'atter is employing, and trust to the power
of the battery to make an impression. Mostly after
two or three tries it does. Then the assailed party
feels as though he had had an elephant tk„
him, and practically abandons all interest Wl \u t
tourney. That is how Massie won all his f£ht" 6
is very fast for his vast size, and can He
ment, but, in addition to lack of skill h punis:h '
to be too kindly and good-natured to do
manent good at the game. In every case h, per ‘
past competition, he needed to be punche, mg
before he would stir himself to action t ‘ a - blt
quality that loses more fights than any‘other ‘V
the way, it is absurd to talk of Massie as a L. By
tive “White Hope,” even if he shaped like oE"#’
father (Hugh Massie, the ex-international cricketer!
is a well-to-do member of the Union Club- „!t'
Mss 6 " B6 80n 1S g ° ing “ f ° r the en S ine ering bush
* * *
The top dogs of Sydney lacrosse comneti
tion had a day out on Saturday, when the
clubs were battered fiat. Sydney followed I k
previous success by smashing ’Varsity with li L f
to two; and Petersham, after downing Mosman hi
four goals to one, remains unbeaten this season The
slush-siders from Birchgrove, where the dear)’ a
float in the face of the” sunrise, were L mat
the seasiders from Manly—too many by six goals tn
one. Eastern Suburbs gave Burwood food for thought
the figures being eight to two. ought,
* *
After all, there is something in racehorse
nomenclature. A brute designated Ruinall s-athe,la
the big event at Tatt.’s meeting at Brisbane ™
Saturday, and landed those who delight in si.eh
transactions where the cash was paid out. However
the chances are that in the fulness of time mints™
will get face to face with the wisdom of the nerln
who named the animal. A horse is a vain thing
* * * *
N.S.W. Rifle Association is already on
the move with a tremendous prize-money programme
for the annual fixture in October. Altogether about
£6OOO is aloft to encourage men with good siriit
to become proficient in the fine art of defence—
which is good marksmanship. The Rifle Association
deserves a statue.
Tattersall’s Club race meeting at Rand-
wick drew about 25,000 people, in spite of wintrv
conditions. Truly, there were bursts of sunshine
and, if one could avoid the wintry wind, life in the
sunshine was enjoyable. But the wintry wind has
great searching powers. The women-folk sported furs
and feathers and more furs, and this writer rises to
remark that the combination of fur and feather is
just plain horrible, especially when the feathers are
each syds. long, and of 16 different shades, tints and
colors. Variegated feathers are plain atrocities. No
less than 87 horses competed for the £2OOO added
money donated by the Club, and the racing seems to
have been cleaner than usual. So secretary J. B.
Olliffe went home with a satisfied feeling under his
weskit. The Hurdle Race, which cost the starters
£1 each, and to which the Club donated £2OO, saw
no less than seven scratched. This left a field of
nine to race for the plunder. The public divided its
money between Busra and Lewis Rand at three to one
and seven to two against. The Lost Ten Tribes
offered eight to one against John Willie, but the
public merely remarked “Leggo me ear!” Which
shows the public is a fool. Lewis turned turtle, and
John Willie, Briarberry and Busra kept reasonably
close together. Towards the finish John Willie got a
move on, and although the others kept within strik-
ing distance they failed to hit, so J. W T . won easily.
The Flying Handicap, a six-furlong flutter for £4OO
added money, which cost £ 8 to start in, drew no less
than 19 to the barrier. The public swag went on
Sweet Malt at fives, and Blast at sixes. It was an
unfortunate choice, for right at the finish a prad
called Cool Air, seeing an opening in front, jumped
into it, darted through, and won. Blast, the second
favorite, drove the whole field home before him.
What sort of a bag the Two Found Tribes made over
Cool Air can be guessed from the fact that the noble
steed went out at 20 to one against. In horsey
circles it is described as “a skinner.” And so it is.
Tattersall’s Stakes, a mile event with £250 added,
brought out 16 starters, and the public so rushed
Sir Vive that in a few minutes he was down to
twos. Muttama had a few followers who got fives.
At five furlongs Sir Vive was apparently struggling
hopelessly in the rear ; but at the home turn he had
wormed through to fourth place, and down the
straight he tucked his hind legs’ under to such effect
that he was IT. He is nearly six years old, and this
is his first win, and how in thunder the public lobbed
on to him is a mystery. The evil hour of Bag
Iscariot lasted over the next race, the Two Year Old
Handicap, a six-furlong gallop with £3OO added
money and a sweepstake worth six sovs. each starter.
Thirteen faced the ribbon. Estaffe was favorite at
twos, and Spurn was loaded with a fair swag of
popular cash at or about fours. Nothing had a show
with the favorite, who made a clean break away and
left the second favorite to beat Collar. The gilded
plum of the meeting was now due, the Winter Stakes,
with a sweepstake of £lO each and £6OO added
money. Fifteen horses plodded over the course at
full speed. Alured, at threes, carried the swag, and
his nearest rival was Offa. at nine to two. Willow
Green went out at fives. The favorite is described as
having run well, but he didn’t run well enough.
Probably the phrase was suggested by the bookmaker.
He landed first in the take off for the run home,
and then Willow Green came with a rush. Alured
tired suddenlv. and Willow G. took charge, wool
came along with a challenge, which could not be sus-
tained, and W. Green, increasing the lead, won easily
by three lengths. Thereabouts the interest in tne
meeting died out. Something that purported to j
alive —to wit, one Cavity—went out for the final a
eight to one, and finished three lengths ahead of t
most adjacent and whirling beast.


••ft
IIV
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND••
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
tj
X
s
>y«
r
Bosisto's ‘'Parrot Brand M Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
-A
■ ■
■
*
Travel lin
RUG
For Land and Sea
"The Bushman” — 18/6
In rubber of the finest quality
plain or fancy 'lined— —
waterproof-rpractically indes-
tructible-warm without being
excessively weighty fitted
with nickel-plated Strap-ring
—size, 60-in. x 50-in. (approx).
“The Bushman” is the rug
that stands alone for all-round
usefulness “Outback.”
“The Traveller ’’ —21 /-
All wool—full winter weight
—heavy fringing—in a variety
of tasteful tarta* and fancy
designs —full size —“The Trav-
eller” is a rug that will more
than satisfy the requirements
of the the most hard-bitten
rover.
POST YOUR ORDER
for either of these rugs (or
both) and you’ll receive them
by return —freight paid.
LINCOLN,
STUART & CO.,
Pty. Ltd.,
“Mail-Order Outfitters,”
FLINDERS ST., MELB.
How to Protect Your Health and Preserve
Your Strength!
None of us is proof against illness. But you can build up your
constitution so as to resist it. That is, of course, if you know
how.
T he POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH AND STRENGTH
CULTtmE teaches you precisely how. It will take up but
little of your time, is performed without equipment of any
kind. It will benefit you quickly and permanently.
If 3'ou suffer from indigestion or constipation, or are too
stout or too thin, if your chest or lungs are weak, or your
nerves are run down, you will find the Baker Postal Course of
Health and Strength Culture will quickly cure you.
This is proof of what I say:—
“Those last lot of exercises have banished all aches and
pains of indigestion, of which I had a terribly bad
attack, the week before I received your last letter.”
A.J.W., Hobart (Tas.).
Many hundreds of letters from pupils throughout Australia
and New Zealand are in a similar satisfactory strain.
Full details, cost of tuition, etc., are given in my illustrated
40-page booklet, “Health and Strength from Self Culture.” You
ought to write for a copy; it’s well worth while. Kindlv send
three penny stamps for postage.
Reg.L . (“Snowy”) BilKCf
vbn
188 Belmont Building's, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
00 (DOUBLe‘O')
Old Orkney Whisky.
L. W. DODGE 8 CO.
(VICTOR TRUMPER & DOOCE LTD.)
CRICKET SEASONALITIES.
All Cane Bats, Bound Blades, 5/6
each.
Cane and Rubber Spliced Handles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 13/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
The “ SPECIAL ” Cross Rubber, 22/6.
The VICTOR DRIVER, 25/-
Victor Trumper & Dodge Ltd. Special,
30/-
BALLS—Leather Match, 4/6, 5/-, 5/3,
5/9, 6/3 each.
WlCKETS—BrassTopsand Steel Shod,
5/6, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6 per set.
Leg Cuards. Wicket-keeping Gaunt-
lets. Batting Cloves, Matting,
Boots and Shoes, Shirts, Sweaters,
Trousers, etc.
Our Illustrated Handbook of Sports
will be posted to you free on receipt of
your application.
317 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
bn
‘SHELL’
BENZINE
THE CLEAN
AND
POWERFUL SPIRIT
FOR ALL MOTORS
WILL YOU TRY MY
vnbb
CIGARILLOS?-
THE SHILLING CIGARS
IN A SMALL SIZE.
For a short smoke—
something between a
Cigar and a Cigarette
—there is nothing to
equal my Cigarillos.
Send to-day for a trial
lot.
They are put up
in Three Sizes.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/-, 1/9,1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
4/9, 4/3,
3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
9/-, 8/-, 7/-
Postage
Extra.
Write for a
Copy of my
Illustrated
Catalogue—
FREE.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M.IOLOMON,
Cigar Expert,
173 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Just the Style You Want
with comfort such as you have never before
known.
This is the ideal combination you will find in
Rigney Shoes.
There’s a model for every eye and a shape for
every foot.
The Boot here shown is a Choice Tan Russia
Derby Boot, kid lined, very stylish and dressy.
Also, in Black.
23\6, 2 5/- and 27/6.
Can be had with or without punching on cap.
Postage, 9d. extra.
Write to-day for a copy of our Catalogue.
The Rigney Shoe Co.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
305 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, Sydney;
And at City Buildings, Edward St., Brisbane.
nb


Sanatogen Brings New
Health and Nerve Force.
“ I have used Sanatogen with extra-
ordinary benefit. It is to my mind a true
food tonic, feeding the nerves, increasing
the energy, and giving fresh vigour to the
overworked body and mind.”
These words by Sir Gilbert Parker, M.P.,
the well-known author, have a helpful
meaning for you —- if you need real help in
one of those crises of life when your health
is giving you anxiety. N
They echo a sentiment of gratitude which
is expressed in many different ways in
thousands upon thousands of letters from
men and women who owe to Sanatogen new
strength • 'd vitality.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst, member of His
Majesty’s Privy Council, writes: “ Sir John
Gorst wishes to say he has long been acquainted
with the great merits of Sanatogen—has taken
it with excellent results, and when necessary
will certainly take it again. It was also used
by a daughter of his with great benefit.”
To you who are run down, nervous or
weak —to you who are less than yourself—
Sanatogen will bring new health. To you
whose nerves have gone wrong, and whose
appetite or sleep or capacity for work are
impaired, Sanatogen comes as a rescuing
sustainer, a revitalising force, a feeder of
nerves and tissues.
Write to-day for a Free Booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” to Messrs. A. Wulfing
& Co., 17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kindly mention this paper when writing.
All Chemists sell Sanatogen, price 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per tin.
mmm
mmtmmms
m.
: \
■' i ••
/T
V
i
“Cockaigne”: Forbes Robertson was giving his
farewell performances when the last mail left Lon-
don. Nevertheless, it would not be surprising to find
him in Australia, if Waller gives him any encourage-
ment. The drawback in Robertson’s case is that
his trump card, Jerome’s “Passing of the Third
Floor Back,” has been lately given by Matheson
Lang. This piece made Robertson’s fortune; it
did not take mightily in London, but sentimental
America sDrang up to it. Some will maintain that
F.R. is the best actor on the English-speaking stage.
His Hamlet is decidedly in front of anything—in
succession to Irving’s, and in the line of Booth’s,
grandly simple and direct. Robertson retires with
all his powers, like Macready, and does not linger
like the Keans, • Irving, Sullivan, Cremick, Anderson,
and so many more. The cruellest thing I ever saw
was in the London Athenaeum, which said that
Charles Mathews was a tombstone over himself. And
the next cruellest concerned a certain actress whose
diamond pendant was described as a lantern hung
over a wreck.
There’s another new comedy co. in the nest in
Sydney. Harry Corson Clarke, who made a big hit
as Blackie Daw in “Wallingford,” and later in vaude-
ville on the Rickards circuit, is the hen. He thinks
it’s time Australia had something to “laff” at, and
he hopes, when he’s through with the vaudeville con-
tract, to hatch out the goods. No theatre has yet
been decided on, but Clarke intends to sub-lease one
of the Sydney houses for a start, and expects to get
a very respectable company without going outside
Australia. Margaret Dale Owen, of course, will be
the leading lady.
“C. Ockney”: In “Poverty Point” {B. l/5/’l3)
the question is put: “How has the Incorporated Stage
Society (of London) succeeded in persuading the
British censor to license Schnitzler’s plays?” Is the
writer sure that the I.S.S. has persuaded him? “The
Countess Mizzi” and “The Green Cockatoo” (a strik-
ingly clever bit of work this, which should be licen-
sed, anyhow) were produced “privately,” as it is
called. The society staged them for two perform-
ances only, on a Sunday evening and the following
afternoon. Only members and their friends (which,
of course, includes the critics) are admitted to these
shows, no payment being allowed at the doors and
no salaries being asked (as a rule) by the mummers.
Naturally, these entertainments are thronged, especi-
ally when an author like Schnitzler is on tap. When
the “Countess Mizzi” is submitted to the censor
with a view to a performance open to the general
public, it will be pretty safe to bet that he. like the
“Dook” in Conan Doyle’s “Waterloo,” will “have
a word to say.”
.Joseph McCabe, the science lecturer, has been tell-
ing them in Melbourne that the sun is due to go
cold in the year 12,000,000. Whereupon a prompt
local firm of drapers draws special attention to its
time-payment line in heavy winter overcoats.
The elephant—that calm and baggy remnant of a
leisurely, bygone age, when everything was weather-
resisting, and built on a massive scale —makes the
modern world look foolish when it gets loose. The
other night, one of Wirths’ circus elephants took a
walk along Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) railway station, and,
finding a stack of baker’s loaves, stretched forth its
trunk and courteously handed itself one of the
curious little doughnuts. It tasted fine, so the old
hosepipe grabbed another and swung it into the
curious, peevish mouth underneath. Two dozen
doughnuts altogether were put into Jumbo’s hold
before it felt inclined to move on like a tower of
darkness. Immediately it shuffled off, there was a
scurry as of many mice, and the train passengers,
who had fled from the vicinity in horror, scrambled
back into their lighted toy carriages. The ele-
phant didn’t even blow screams at them from its
trunk. It lust stood by and gave an imitation of
a ruined cathedral by night, while the press agent
or somebody settled up for the loaves it had thrown
into its belfry.
One of the uneonsidered members of the William-
son musical comedy forces not so long ago was
Jimmy Watts, a Ballarat boy, who always seemed
proud to be patronised by his former school mate,
Hal Cohen. Whilst plump Hal was being petted by
the women and boomed by the Marshall Hall crowd
as the Tenor of the Future, his friend, Jimmy Watts,
was earning a small salary with a small, sweet
falsetto voice and a nimble pair of legs. Both boys
went to England. Hal Cohen, the tenor, boiled down
into a commonplace baritone, and little or nothing
has been heard of him for a year or two. Jimmy
Watts lately got a £4O a week engagement for a
term at the London Coliseum, and is booked for a
next Christmas panto, at £7O a week. A number
of Australians in London have suddenlv remembered
that they once met his name on a Williamson pro-
gramme, and thought him very promising.
“Busk”: Very few people knew that Ethel War-
wick was Lewis Waller’s daughter, and that when
she came to Australia she was prospect : ng for her
father in Sydney and Melbourne. She did well last
year in London with “A Royal Divorce.” Then she
leased the Queen’s, but it did not answer. A plav
at a West-end house won’t pay unless it runs 50
nights. So she took the Little Theatre in the Strand,
and now to fill in time is playing at the Tivoli
Music Hall in “Stolen Fruit.”
“M P V who is travelling with “Ireland To-day,”
writes of picture-shows in general, and his own little
matter in particular: There have been several pars
in The Bulletin re the decline of picture biz and
lack of applause from the audiences. I suppose a
travelling show like ours is the best test of public
taste We find that towns are as fickle as women.
In one town the show is flat as dish-water, and
vou feel it in the air, but in another it is all go.
A comparison between Adelaide, Melbourne and Syd-
ney audiences is interesting. Each audience was
enthusiastic, but Sydney far more demonstrative
than the others. Melbourne was the best behaved.
Whether the songs were illustrated or not, the Mel-
bourne Irish waited till the end o a verse or song
before applauding. Not so with Sydney and Adelaide
The Svdneyites really smothered the singer when
O’Conn 11 or Parnell appeared on the screen, and the
Home Rule meeting set them yelling. As to the
decline of picture shows—well, the supply is always
increasing. Towns . like Albury, Magga, Hay and
Narrandera get a cinematograph show realh a per-
manent one—two, three and four times a week. It
is now verv difficult to get dates and fix a route a B in
days before the boom Pictures to-day have a great
grip of the country, far more so than when I toured
with “Australia At Work” two or three years ago.
The Manager’s Point of Hew: In your picture-
show notices you often use the word flicker or a
diminutive thereof—“flick,’ to wit—when speaking
of the screening of pictures. Now, it is certainly a
fact that this old language of ours is hopelessly lost
in the matter of terms when it comes to a vester-
day’s industry like the picture business. Nobody
appreciates more than I do the darned awkwardness
of having to dig out variations of the few stock
terms, but the trouble is that the latter-day picture
considers itself to be flickerless, and it hurts its
feelings when The Bulletin refers to it as being
“flicked.” Of course, the old thing certainly does
flick to some extent. That can’t be helped. What
we want to avoid, if possible, is to have this trifling
remnant of a once prominent disability emphasised.
Tt isn’t considered advisable to keep talking of ropes
if there is a man in the company whose grandfather
was hanged, and to keep mentioning flickers in the
company of a show whose original ancestor wobbled
a good deal is the same kind of thing.
“Quarter Single”: “At eve the beetle boometh”—
am) at present the Melbourne picture show in-
dustry is imitating the aforesaid insect. There are
signs' that the boom and the explosion may not be
far apart—but the figures are impressive. In five
vears nearly three score picture theatres have been
built in Victoria’s overgrown capital. The
city itself has 10, and the suburban quota
runs: St. Kilda, five; Prahran five; Rich-
mond, five; Fitzroy, three; South Melbourne,
Brighton, Williamstovvn, Footscray, Brunswick, North-
cote, North Melbourne, two each; East Melbourne,
Elsternwick, Abbotsford, Middle Park, Malvern,
Glenferrie, Balaclava, Fairfield, Carlton, Canterbury,
Armadale, Albert Park, Coburg, Moonee Ponds and
Caulfield, one each. This doesn’t include the
’granh at the Sunday-school “entertainment” in the
church hall, designed to bring what the curate calls
the striplings of the flock (because they are ripe for
cinematographs, kipetoscopes and such all flashed
in a suburban tent for a one-night stand while
Gertie snuggles up to Billo and says, “Go!” The
picture show is cheap and easy, and brings red paint
for drab lives within the reach of hundreds who can-
not afford the ordinary theatre. Whefefore, picture
show promoters outdo one another—until they see
the wisdom of combining—to draw a film over the
eye of the public.
'“JFH ” (from London) : There is no money in
Ibsen nowadays, and managers shv right across the
road and bre'ak their harness, and upset the vehicle.
and ’snort hard when thev see the ghost of the
gloomy Norse plavwright" coming along. Frederick
Harrison put up the finest of his plavs. “The Pre-
tenders,” at London Havmarket. but it was no go.
The plavgoing public stopped awav in vast numbers,
and Harrison had to take it off after a brief run that
never amounted to more than a cold trot. And yet
it was highlv praised bv the critics, Laurence Irv-
ing’s impersonation of Earl Skule being pronounced
the finest thing he has done up to date.
By way of a change, Cyril Maude the r ,
manager, says the plays he receives’now
above the level of those he remembers ->o V e ar ? far
lhe mistake many young playwrights nrik •agV-
sending their goods to the wrong market Ju
being found unsuitable, they are cast aside and t’
gotten. Maude believes in reading eve rv nfav T
mitted to him; you never can tell what fro hu J '
you may stumble on—and he quotes his own pv®
lence with “Bunty Pulls the Strings,” which ho * n
on quite by accident. Icl l
“E.D.”: I want to protest asrainat h,
assumption that th(; Australian author k f? Unon
damnable and unjustifiable thing n nh-t, - dolng a
traU or p J art thereof in v"? A ™-
roseate glow ' of exceeding glee or n 3 the
but one ",f abounding prosperity Since • attlt i ule
a small play st aged it has been driven he f ha(l
a (. ever y s treet corner that the \nstr r ,n ® • nie
desp j cab i e traitor if he losessight If m" L nter is
cap X‘ e immigration agent
the effect of sec luded bush life "at the
of hi]ls foreign '? ttom of a
cause t b is d j d not permit” of rhanor r® nt ’ an d be-
“ ™ cUmate and exuberant shonts° Ut ° ur
. Qur j an d our muttonVu houts . reSard-
drfmatist is getting it in the neck’ most
If he gets it muc g n he WO n\ h e^v° U^
left xhe idea that we are ~ oi , ‘.® t atl} : n< ‘ ck
ing gb ip S) stop the investment of blighted
C a P ita.l, and scare coin, or loot, or funds nr ° r^ lg ! l
out of the CoU ntry by using any but the L P ? sh
s ; de of tbe g unny g ou th j n our literary comnnsm' ng
imposes intolerable fetters on the \ustralfan tlons
man There are English Frenph German p, P ® n '
and American authors whose writings im’nlv U^ a ?
t heir countries arc not wholly and alwiv! L f
bonnes of peace and plenty, but I don’t heir nf fu K
contemporaries wanting to choke them nn
account em on that
. Lucl : Estelle Stead, daughter of the Titanic
journalist, is an actress. Stead had commiserated hi*
' r iend, ( anon Barnes, on the fact that three daughter*
°‘, hls f arl one on the stage—Violet, Irene and an
other, known as the t anbrughs. Yet he took his
own Estelle's departure for the footlights philosophi
cally, for in the meantime he had been converted to
the theatre, which he had never entered till he was
40 years of age. Besides Estelle went in for Juliet
an<4 s och high game. But Juliet and Ophelia won’t
tong buoy up the stage-stricken ; they find themselves
getting shoved under circular saws by cigarette
smoking villains, pitched off lighthouses and toppled
° ut of s4aß ’ e b° ats > dropped from the top of the
London Monument. Estelle, however, solemnly takes
U P 44| e spiritual mantle laid down bv W.T., and this
may be a good advt. Certainly the messages she
S’® 4B L’ ol ™ fa 4^ er > P er Empyrean Marconi, are infern
all .V Lad. They are not a, bit like him— ecstatic
stuff probably out of Estelle s excited brain, just a
4 ® a<4 get a wire from Aapoleon, Shakspeare.
Nebuchadnezzar, Elijah, or Dowie. Yet it’s a good
better than sitting quiet and waiting for Beer
bohm 1 ree to send for her.
“Hullo”: He blew in with his girl at the first
performance of “Fanny’s First Play.” He bought
•*«**«.- nr"r —■
ably to enjoy himself. When the cuitam rose and
disclosed a black curtain and two chairs, he was
genially interested. He felt certain that presently
that veil would be drawn back to reveal something
nubbly and pink in the way of legs. When two
gentlemen entered and began to talk, and continued
to talk, he muttered in amazement to his girl,
What had he struck ? The two gentlemen on the
two chairs went on talk ins-. His girl relapsed con-
tentedlv into her chocolates, but somehow he felt
that she was not enjoying herself. To his surprise
the audience seemed to find the conversation of the
two gentlemen funnv. He wriggled and muttered,
Five intent persons m his neighborhood angrily said
“Sssh !” Then he grabbed his programme to find
out the name of the idiot who had written this
alleged play. All he found was some stars. He
asked his girl if she knew. She didn t. and 28
people remarked “Sssssh ! Then the only possible
explanation illuminated him. “This must be Shaw!
he said, and the pair hurriedly left. As far as they
were concerned this would be Fanny s last play.
WHEN CELIA SINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Celia’s a maid, but far from young,
With hair of most suspicious hue;
She has a sharp and acid tongue,
The spinster’s tongue at forty-two;
Within a boarding-house she dwells,
And would that she might spread her wings
To save us from her nightly yells,
For Celia sings.
When, after meat, we sit and smirk,
Talk weather, sport and politics,
And those who don’t go back to work
Are asked to play some parlor tricks,
Then Celia’s mother (sixty-five,
False hair, false teeth, false many things)
Says, growing suddenly alive,
“My Celia sings.”
And 10, the wails of “Might-Have-Been”
In husky treble smite the air,
And squealings for “My—Queen—My—Queen.”
Awaken “In-A-Garden-Fair” :
We cannot treat it as a joke,
That larynx with the ancient strings,
So mostly we go out to smoke
When Celia sings.
But, watching that dull-yellow head,
The skinny neck, the lifeless eyes,
I think of times which must have fled
When Celia carolled otherwise;
Before each year of forty-odd
Across her face had drawn a fang,
And some young lover was a god
When Celia sang.
There was a breast which rose and fell
Then, with her girlhood’s sweet desire,
A voice that was a silver bell,
A glance that answered fire with fire;
I sometimes wonder while she squeaks
Whether, ’mid pale rememberings,
Some one warm recollection speaks
When Celia sings.
Barren and withered! Like a shroud
Her dress the bony shoulder hides;
As if a graveyard had grown loud
She sings, and there is more besides ;
For when the last, poor wheezy note,
With dismal coffin-echo rings,
Death’s claw seems moulded on her throat
When Celia sings.
N.S.W.
A.M.


,
• .-
:
■
Wt -
■■ <
.
■
■
J ;»h ’
Si
V
m
■
mm h i
tm '-VvV,: 4 -
rj
Z*** Supplied
* TO THE •
House of commons
v • ■"
w?m .a
'
m
m :
. ■ iwt
14®
R.THorne & Sons. Limited. ;
■ Greenock Distillery
AND
Lion House Tower Hill . LON DON. E.C
:
%
’
—'■
is
■
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLED
%»|UWIRML CAUo#
; I p |
& > < i
. o
.
/ ; v VW-;
A 321
*
THORNE'S OLD HIGHLAND MALT WHISKY is a real
delight to the palate* So smooth —so mellow —so uniformly
excellent it appeals at once to the man whose chief
demand is Quality. When next you order whisky, let it be
THORNE'S. You will join the ever-increasing host who
declare it INCOMPARABLE.


Bronchitis
—a hacking cough, short-
ness of breath and frequent
expectorations. How easy
to allay that bad cough, yet
how difficult to regain
health. But SCOTT’S
Emulsion not only heals
the delicate membranes of
the throat and lungs—it
drives the cough from
the system, fortifies the
lungs and creates strength
to resist further attacks.
TRADE
K
MARK
scons
Emulsion
Doctors in every part of the
world prescribe SCOTT’S
Emulsion for throat and chest
ailments. But if you decide to
try SCOTT’S,be sure to see the
fishman on the package—it is
your guarantee of genuineness
SHORT Stories, Novels,
Poems, etc., Wanted.
We are commissioned by a well-known
weekly journal to offer prizes of £lO 10s.
and £5 6s. for the best short stories sub-
mitted before July 31, 1913.
We also have a purchaser for a novel by
an Australian writer.
Highest prices secured for Short Stories,
Poems, Special Articles, etc.
MS. revised and every assistance given to
beginners.
1913 Prospectus posted free on request.
Australasian Literary Agency,
Pendennis Chambers, Sydney.
ANTINEURASTHIN
TREATMENT OF
NERVOUS AND WASTING DISEASES.
The wonderful properties of Antineurasthin (Leci-
thin in an absolutely pure form) for successfully
treating all nerve maladies, Dyspepsia, Anaemia,
Rheumatism, etc., and imparting permanent mental
and nerve force, reflect the latest and most important
achievements in medical science.
One of the most important of the wonderful re-
sults obtained by this treatment is that not alone
does it build up the nervous system by feeding the
brain and nerve-cells with their natural food ele-
ment, but on account of its beneficial action upon
the process of nutrition and upon the blood, the
whole general health shows prompt improvement,
particularly in wasting diseases.
A FREE TRIAL.
In order that the worth of Antineurasthin may be
tested, a sample supply, together with a treatise on
nervous maladies, will be forwarded to any address
in Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover
postage by the wholesale representative, H. A. God-
dard No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-414 Queen
Street, Brisbane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Cham-
bers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810. [2
ww
Coughing: a good deal these'
daysP Throat tender P Lungs
' sore P Better take the 75-year-
old cough medicine —Ayer’s
I Cherry Pectoral. Three sizes.
\ CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
always one feature in Tiie Lone
Hand each" month that is alone worth' the
price charged for '■.he whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.
UNCLAIMED MONEY & PROPERTY.
HOnSAL'S BtMISTr.R to NFXT-OF-KIN,
CHANCERY HEIRS, LEGATEES, Ac., Ac., price
5/-,480 pages. Robertson’s, booksellers, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, or Dougal & Co.
Claims investigated and carried through
DOUCAL A CO., 151 STRAND, LONDON, ENGLAND
(Established, over RO Years.)
Have You Tried Herbs
for Your Illness ?
For hundreds of years the common, simple herbs were all that were used as medicines—
and the people in the olden times used to live longer and healthier.
I believe Herbs will often cure where other treatment fails —in fact, I know many, many
cases where this has been so. And I want you to try the simple, natural Herb Cure for
uour complaint. Tell me your symptoms and all particulars—l will send you a full
month’s supply of Herbs, suited for your illness, with full direction how to use them
For this full month’s course I charge £2/2/- It will prove the best investment you ever
made. Try it! Write to-day, and send postal notes of any State. ✓
J. W. CASE,, ph. c., m.p.s.,
Botanic Pharmacist, BRISBANE, Q.
nbn
bn
Ai\
Odorless Breath
uX
is but one of the many advantages that Pebeco
provides. Cleaner, whiter, stronger teeth, firmer,
healthier gums, and a high standard of mouth
health, all inevitably follow its night and morning
use.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube of Pebeco, with interesting book and
test papers, free for three penny stamps, on appli-
cation to the Sole Agent,
(Dept.
C. ARNOLD
M), 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney
(WHOLESALE ONLY). [1
V
Hunyadi Janos
Occasional Constipation, although it may attract little attention
from the sufferer, nevertheless demands prompt attention.
Fortunately the remedy is s:mple and still more happily
Providence has placed it within the reach of every household.
Nothing more is required than a wineglassful of Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aperient Water every morning on arising before breakfast
for a week—“ only that—and nothing more.”
vbn
b
Champion Shoe
Machinery Co.,
St. Louis
U.S.A.
Combination Harness
and Shoe Stitchers,
Nailers, and Finishing
Outfits (power or
foot). Easily operated.
NON-ROYALTY.
No Shoe Repair Shop Complete without “ CHAMPION ’’ Outfits.
J. W. LARBALESTIER, LTD.
Sole Australasian
Agents,
Circular Quay East, Sydney, N.S.W.
CATALOGUES (ILLUSTRATED) POST FREE ON
APPLICATION.
■So Easy and so Comfortable.” That’s what you’ll say if you use
b
b
bv
U/ye PLUM RAZOR.
It will give you a smooth, swift shave, without roughening the skin
or causing any after-soreness.
You’ll enjoy your morning shave. It will set you up for the day.
Order one to-day and we’ll keep it in perfect order for two years.
PRICE 10 6, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer
shapes the moustache. Worn
at night; 2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each
post free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
SAFETY RAZORS FROM 5/6.
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This is the
line that makes a stood present.
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Stick good Shaving Soap, V-
The Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- Tune.
Gentlemen who shave themselves
should not he without it.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ORIGINALITY,
UNIQUENESS
of Design characterise our Gem Productions in Jewellery.
WHY?
WE Carry perhaps the Largest Stock of Loose Jewels
in Sydney.
WE Carry out Original Designs Every Day.
WE Submit and Quote for Special Novelties.
OUR Gem Expert Daily Evolves New Creations.
WE Make Them on the Premises, and so ensure the
Lowest Possible Prices.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
PLAIN FIGURES,
CASH.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Aquamarines and
Pearls, set in lSot w
Necklet,
£4/15/-
Complete in Case,
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Bill Adams: Don’t complain too much
about Australian legal complications. Only the other
day a legal advertisement appeared in this paper re
“an action of multiplepoinding and exoneration”
raised in a Scottish court against somebody in Aus-
tralia. If anybody started an action of multiple-
poinding and exoneration against you then you might
grumble X.X.X.: That beautiful moral reflection
isn’t your own. It comes out of Young s “Night
Sweats,” or some pious volume of the kind....L.
Graham H. Horton-Smith (London): Thanks
Barcoo Several years, or centuries, or aeons, or some*
thing too belated.... D.Mclv. (Eng.): Thanks....-
T. 8.: Write George Robertson and Co., Sydney....
Sir O.: Sub-editors are quite unnecessary, of course ;
but it is one of the fads of this office to emploj
them. And just to give them an excuse for drawing
their salaries, please leave enough space between your
typewritten lines to allow them to insinuate their
superfluous pens. .. . J.L.: Don’t know what the alle-
gedly-Binghi “shoobra” means. Anybody oblige?....
Auri Sacra Fames: It is all true, but it has been said
so often before.... M. 8.: Public Works Office, Bridge-
street, Sydney... G. R. Herald: Nicely rhymed verses,
but they lack kick or ginger or something. Also,
they are too obvious. Furthermore, one of our
habitual poets did a better set on the same, point. .
8.D.: We are fed up with Druce reminiscences...'.
Barcoo: You send just the sort of political chat that
we don’t want. F’rinstance, “The ‘Government of
which he is the ‘Head’ can be called constructive.
No doubt a deal of their legislation is ‘ldealistic,’
nevertheless it is in keeping with the times, and the
‘experiments’ are being closely watched from ‘Out
side.’ ” If you must write, stick to Abo. pars, in which
a man is often liable to say something new, despite
himself, so to speak Bellerive: Selection from
your “Poetic Diary” :
SELF-DESTRUCTION.
Play on till daybreak
ve reckless men
Never more will I enter
A gambling Den
W T hich has left me a pauper
And blasted my name
As God is my Witness
I’ve played my last game.
Sadly brooded the gambler
In a lodging house room
Contemplating to seal
His own tragic doom
As a greasy candle
Shed its flickering Light
He prepared for his horrid
Deed of the night
He seized a razor without
A tremor of fear
And severed his throat
From ear to ear
Grim self destruction
His life’s troubles were O’er
The gambler lay weltering
In a pool of gore.
E.8.8.: Neat, but not enough sting in it
C. Strong: Unsuitable. Try one of the other week-
lies. .. .R.W.C.: One is too wildly dismal and the
other is too crowded with lullaby, hot bottles and
soothing syrup. ...Charles H.: Address to South Pole
frozen out. . . .Homo: D —n !. . . .L.L. : Monkey poem
escaped and rushed up a telegraph pole. The Re-
ligious Editor is now trying to coax it into the basket
with some nuts Bardie: It is up to rejection
mark. .. .K.D.: Verses too young and sentiments too |
old. It is difficult not to be artificial when one writes
about the dear, dead past at 15. .. .Cornstalk: The
aboriginals never talked like that... .Rooinek: Fairly
cheerful, but not worth the space. ... J.C.T.: A small
point... .Ben Rio : Verv tortuous. .. .Star: No earthly
use to us. .. .S.L.R.: Of interest only to those who
know William. Quite likely that he would not be a
bit pleased to see it in print... .John E.: No market
for rhapsodies here. .. . J.K.: “Twilight” is the bet-
ter of the pair. Both fail gracefully Lemon-
grove: Just blither J.G.M.: What drove you to
it?. . . .Victor L.: Australia will have to worry along
without that song. .. .Joe G.: It’s a virile outburst,
anyhow. .. .Young B.: Too slight. No name or ad-
dress attached.... K.L. (S.A.) : Honest attempt....
R.P.: Brigalow is a rough product of no value....
Ex-Vic.: (1) The Bulletin will read any paragraphs
submitted, irrespective of their grammatical (or
otherwise) construction; (2) your suggestions for
illustration are not up.....E.C.: -Too wordy
A.J.H.: Not bad stuff; but another paper pegged
out Dooley, and this paper has religious scruples
about working the claim.... Bridgetown: Certainly
the unimproved value of land may fluctuate. The
unimproved value is merely the value without im-
provements. An acre of vacant land at Ardlethan
(N.S.W.) was worth about £6 12 months ago. To-
day some optimist, believing that the t ! n mines there
will last for ever, might give £lOOO for it. ....
Umfaan: That matrimonial tangle happened in the
U.S. —or was invented by a U.S. liar—long, long
ago. This writer remembers coming across it when
he was doing junior press work for good, old Wil-
liam Mcllwraith at Rockhampton in the ’Bo’s. He
(this same writer) urged the old man to’publish it,
and the wise old man scoffed, and said that when he
was a junior reporter his editor had turned it down
on the ground of old age.... Gouger: “The Japanese-
invented eyeglass,” with which you inspect the sea-
bottom, isn’t new, nor is it Japanese. It was known
and used in France and England a century ago or
more.... Dun: Joseph Cook was born in Stafford-
shire, England, in 1860. Andrew Fisher was born in
Avrsh ; re, Scotland, in 1862. TJames Epmond, The
Bulletin Office, Sydney. Dates verified by S. H.
Prior, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Lucan Welz: You say you hope we will find your two
sketches suitable for reproduction in The Bulletin.
Now, did you ever see sketches like yours reproduced
in this paper? Can you lay your hand on the small
of your back and honestly declare these daubs are
sketches? If you can, you have the cheek of a masked
burglar. .. .St.L.W. (Q.) : As it is your first offence
nothing worse than good advice will be meted out.
Put money in thy purse, then hie thee to the slave
market and purchase a fair young model, and draw,
and sketch, and limn her for three years without in-
termission. Then commit the second offence
D.L.T.S.: One suggestion is too suggestive; the other
this paper has already paid for . Maude R.: The
obscurity of the joke is the worst feature of the case.
L.B.: If you had ever fought a desperate battle
on a plank bridge with all chaos below, you would
know that a lot more energy was req&ired. Go and
see how they do that sort of thing at the bellow-
show, and then draw the picture again, with blood
and hair and bowie knives and pistols and cannon
and bull-dogs and frenzied hatred in it.... Mart:
Drawing not at all bad, but that joke about the
young man who wanted to press his suit has turned
up in too many shapes already... .0.5. K.: The only
things that are wrong with your contribution are the
drawing and the joke... .S.M.A.: There is just one
thing wrong with your “Father William” picture—
it hasn’t a single redeeming feature. It is wretchedly
drawn, faint, scratchy, humorless, and a* dull as
ditch water. Also, there being no sign of any stamp
for return, it has gone into the basket... The Anony-
mous Artist Who Is Responsible For “At Our Board-
ing House”: Declined... .Frank M.L.: Drawings no
good to us. No address attached... .C.M. (Paris):
Handed to the Religious Editor as a going concern.


Public Opinion and
Beale High-grade Pianos.
The great majority of our Pianos are sold on the personal recommendation of users, and we are constantly receiving letters from our
customers praising the Beale High-Grade Pianos. Our instruments are in use in every part of Australia; in New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, New
Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, India, and on the Continent of Europe; and everywhere they give the same unbounded satisfaction.
Below we give a few (greatly condensed) extracts from unsolicited testimonials from buyers of Beale High-Grade Pianos.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Mr. FRED L. GOODMAN, Mascotte, Hardy
Street, Ashfield:—
“Splendid, and the tone is perfect. Pro-
fessional musicians have highly commended
it. You are quite at liberty to refer any in-
tending purchaser, desirous of independent
testimony, to me.”
Mr. WALTER BAXTER, Sen., Albert Street,
Wickham:—
“Entire satisfaction. Keeping up its splen-
did reputation.”
Mr. RAYMOND WALKER, Coolalie:—
“Very pleased with piano in every way.
Neighbors admire very much.”
Mrs. T. A. HAYNES, Alandale, Cockamid-
gera:—
“Very much pleased with piano. Entire
satisfaction in every way.”
Mr. F. WELLS, Wattamolla, Berry:—
“Piano gives every satisfaction. Neighbors
and friends all speak of it in the highest
terms.”
Mr. F. A. McGINLEY, Sale Street, Orange:—
“May mention that we are thoroughly
pleased with the instrument. Beautiful rich
tone.”
The PRINCIPAL, Cook’s Hill Girls’ Superior
Public School, Newcastle:—
“The two Upright Grand Pianos supplied
to the school four years ago have been in con-
stant use. They have given entire satisfac-
tion, and are well adapted for school pur-
poses. The tone is sweet and mellow, and the
pitch is fully maintained, necessitating little
attention in the way of tuning.”
Mrs. GRACE E. BROOKS, Yetman, via In-
verell: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Splendid in-
strument, with a lovely tone.”
Mr. FRANK BELFORD, Hon. Sec. Comboyne
Union Hall Trustees, Comboyne:—
“Pleased to say piano purchased from you
for the hall is giving every satisfaction.”
QUEENSLAND.
Mr. N. GOODFELLOW, Mount View, Mus-
grave Road, Red Hill: —
“Very pleased with the piano. Tone is ex-
cellent, and remains in tune wonderfully
well.”
Mrs. M. M. MARKS, Clifton Station, Mor-
ven:—
“Piano is excellent, and has stood this
climate exceptionally well. Has only needed
tuning once since I got it.’’
Mr. J. PIDGEON, Klienton, Crow's Nest line,
via Toowoomba:—
“Should like to say that I am very pleased
with the piano. Tone is really beautiful, and
seems to improve with use.”
Mrs. M. CARTER, Fernberg Road, Rasalie:—
“Satisfied with the piano in every way.”
Dr. L. M. McKILLOP, Blackall (Q.)
“It is undoubtedly a magnificent instru-
ment, and your firm is to be congratulated
upon being able to turn out such splendid
work.”
Mr. W. H. SIMPSON, Huelva, Gilliatt:—
“Although this is a very trying climate for
pianos, my Beale is as good as the day it
arrived.”
VICTORIA.
Mr. J. H. BAYNE, Carnavon Street, Auburn:
“A superb instrument with a magnificent
tone. Friends admire it greatly.”
Miss GLADYS WAITE, Norong, via Ruther-
glen:—
“The piano has given me entire satisfac-
tion.”
Mrs. G. M. GOULD, Thomson Street, Hamil-
ton :
“Will never cease recommending your
pianos, as I think so highly of them. Mine
has given nothing but satisfaction.”
Miss L. LOVERING, State School, Kerang:—
“Thoroughly satisfied with the instrument.”
Mr. J. H. ROGERS, Woolocot Street, Co-
burg :
“Must say that everyone who has been to
my place has nothing but praise for the
piano.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. H. J. ARMITAGE, Public School, Hough-
ton: —
“Piano, which I have had for three years,
has been in constant use, and tone is as good
as when I got it. Pianists often remark on
its great purity of tone.”
Mrs. H. WALKER, Wandilo, Mount Gambier:
“Must express my satisfaction with your
beautiful, sweet-toned instrument.”
Mr. JOHN O. WHITEMORE, Dunoon, Victor
Harbor:—
“Much pleased with the instrument in
every way, and gratified with the opinions of
several friends who are professional musi-
cians.”
Mrs. ROSE A. HUNTER, Fairview, Eu-
dunda:—
“May say that I am more than pleased
with the piano.”
Mr. WILLIAM J. HOCKING, Kingston:—
“Everyone agrees that it is a splendid in-
strument.”
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Mr. G. A. BEECK, Katanning:—
“Self and family are more than pleased
with the Beale High-grade Piano.”
Mr. J. A. MILLS, York:—
“Quite satisfied with piano in every way.”
Mrs. C. POWELL, Linden Villa, Stirling
Street, Perth: —
“There is not a better instrument in Perth.”
Mr. T. WARD, Wagin, Western Australia:—
“Greatly satisfied in every respect.”
Mr. W. H. BROWN, Kalgoorlie:—
“Very pleased with the instrument. Much
better than I expected.”
TASMANIA 8 NEW ZEALAND.
Mr. C. J. HINE, 28 Hillside Crescent, Laun-
ceston :
“Instrument is all that could be desired.”
Mrs. J. ANDERSON, 19 Burnett Street,
Hobart: —
“Can highly recommend to anyone re-
quiring a first-class piano.”
Mrs. J. HARVEY, Hamilton: —
“Excellent piano. Many have expressed
their delight at hearing an instrument with
so mellow a tone.”
Air. A. O. WOODS, Liverpool Street, Hobart:
“Tone is even better than when we first got
it. Can recommend strongly.”
Mr. EDMUND ANSCOMBE, 134 Princess
Street, Dunedin, New Zealand: —
“All who have tried it have expressed
themselves as being delighted with its beau-
tiful tone and appearance.”
We have literally thousands more
such testimonials, from almost every
part of the world. The immense suc-
cess attained by the Beale Pianos is
due solely to their high-grade quality.
From the very first we have given our
utmost endeavor to turn out only thor-
oughly reliable, soundly constructed
pianos, embodying the very best musi-
cal qualities. We have created a won-
derful factory organisation, and we
pay the best brains and the best skill,
so as to ensure a perfect result. We
realise that an Australian-made piano
is subjected to much closer scrutiny
in Australia than any imported piano,
and therefore we make—we are
compelled to make —our pianos much
better than those of our competitors.
At the same time, by making pianos
in Australia, we are in the position to
make them much better suited to Aus-
tralian conditions. Any competent
cabinetmaker will tell you that timber
seasoned in the cold, damp climate of
Europe and America cannot be ex-
pected to withstand Australian ex-
tremes of dry heat as well as timber
which is seasoned in this climate. This
is a most important point in piano-
making, and is one good reason why
so many foreign pianos develop cracked
sounding-boards, split tuning-systems
and faulty casework soon after arrival
in this country. But no man can say
he ever saw a Beale piano with a
cracked sounding-board. We abso-
lutely guarantee that the sounding-
boards of Beale Pianos will never
crack in any climate, because our spe-
cial system of construction renders
cracking an impossibility, at the same
time that it greatly enhances the tonal
qualities of the instrument. Beale
Pianos contain the only practical steel
tuning-system in the world —so there
can be no question of splitting of the
wrest-plank. And then our patented
system of cross-plied woodwork en-
sures permanence for the outside case
of the pianos.
Be sure of this: the better musician you are, the more you will delight in a Beale High-Grade Piano.
AVe have always on hand a 'number of good second-hand pianos, taken in part payment of Beale Pianos.
Call and inspect the Beale Pianos now. Inspection does not put you under any obligation whatever. You suit yourself entirely as
whether you purchase.
If you cannot call, write for Catalogue, which we will be pleased to send post free.
BEALE CO. LTD.
. * ’ S"
■ ' ■ MAKERS OF
BEA L E HIGH-GRADE PI AN O S
•* The Utmost Care in the Smallest Details.**
CARL VADER PIANOS.
I; \
Prices: £49, 55, 60, 65. 70, 75, 80, 85, 95, 100, 115, 150, and 240 Guineas.
378 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY (3 Doors from G.P.0.)
127 RUNDLE ST., ADELAIDE, S.A.
107 SWANSTON ST,, MELBOURNE
837 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.
90-92 QUEEN ST., opp. Pike Bros., our new and ONLY Address in BRISBANE.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange, Wagga and Broken Hill, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE.
Head Office and Factories
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
TRAFALGAR ST.,
25 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
CASH or EASY TERMS. REPAIRS and TUNING. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


25/-
FERN POT, pure silver-plated,
handsomely embossed and en-
graved, 4iin. high.
21/-
TEAPOT, pure silver-plated, hand-
fluted, engraved bands.
217-
dinner CRUET,
plated, crystal gl
pure suver-
ass bottles.
SENDS YOU FREE
12/6.
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, hand-embossed, cut,
crystal glass.
25/6.
Handsome CHINA TEA SET,
40 pieces, handsome floral de-
sign, decorated gilt. Postage
extra.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
10/6
SUGAR BASIN, pure
silver-plated, nickel sil-
ver, richly burnished.
A Magnificent New Silverware Catalogue of 200
Pages—each page filled with delightfully up-to-
date designs for Wedding or Birthday Gifts,
high in quality and wonderfully low in price
£2/7/6.
HOT-WATER KETTLE & STAND,
pure silver-plated, rustic stand, richly
embossed.
mm
mm
fmm
*M3m&
i
sk.
&
12/6.
FISH SERVERS, pure silver-plated, hand-engraved blades, xylonite
handles. Ivory handles, 30/-
307-
vegetable DISH, pure sil-
ver-plated, on nickel silver,
highly burnished.
10/6.
EGG FRAME AND SPOONS,
silver-plated, nickel silver.
WE PAY
POSTAGE
m
10/6 Tair.
SALT CELLAR AND
SPOON, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver,
rainbow glass.
25/-
BISCUIT BARREL, polished Eng-
lish oak, silver-plated mounts, por-
celain china lining.
257-
cake BASKET, pure silver-
plated, nickel silver, richly en-
graved.
12/6
PRESERVE DISH, pure sil-
ver-plated, crystal glass dish.
807-817 GEORGE: STREET, SYDNEY.
m
f
& c
. .
V .
1 i 4i
.
\:X
; im
* A<
'♦ 4
*22
9 *
A
m
. *
m
.
/s
What a difference stropping makes!
Only those who have used an Auto Strop in comparison
with a non-stropping safety can tell just how much difference
there is—not only in the smooth, close shave which the
sharp stropped blade of an Auto Strop ensures, but in the
simplicity of its use also.
It takes far less time to strop an Auto Strop blade (and so keep it in the pink of condition)
than to put a new blade into a non-stropping safety razor. The Auto Strop is the only razor
that strops itself and consequently
SAVES CONSTANT EXPENSE FOR BLADES.
Aul o&trop
k s AT6n
Standard Seti containing self-stropping
Auto Strop Safety Razor, one dozen
improved rust-proof “Valet” blades,
and genuine horsehide strop, complete
in leather-covered case.
Price in Australia - 22/6
Price in New Zealand 257-
Sole Depot for Australasia :
PARTRIDGE—ABERCROMBY, Ltd.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.


f
MAKE RECORDS at HOME
If you have never made a Record, never heard your own voice or your own music
as others have heard it, you have denied yourself a most interesting and fascinating
experience.
T his is more than half the fun of owning an Edison Phonograph; a feature
possessed by no other sound-reproducing instrument. It will record and reproduce,
accurately and faithfully, what you say, play or sing.
In order to further popularise these home record-making qualities, we are intro-
ducing, for the first time,
U/ye EDISON
Home Record-
Making' Outfit
by means of which you will be better enabled to make your own Records; to send
your voice to your friends; to preserve the sayings of the children ; to record your
progress as an elocutionist, player or singer.
The Outfit consists of a new Edison 4-MINUTE RECORDER, 3 BLANK
RECORDS, each one of which can be shaved from 50 to 75 times before being
discarded, and an EDISON HOME SHAVING MACHINE, by means of which
the blank can be given a new surface after a Record has been made.
The price of this Outfit, complete, in Australia, is £2 ; in New Zealand, £2/12/6.
Full instructions for its use are included in a booklet obtainable of any Edison
dealer, or direct from us. You should go to-day to your dealer and have him
demonstrate this home record-making feature of the Edison Phonograph to you.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
STANDING
THE TEST
ALL OVER
THE WORLD.
HOW many Steam
Engines can stand
the Test of Time ?
which, after all, is the
most severe ordeal.
MARSHALL’S Brit-
ish-built Portables and
Tractions have survived
after 60 years’ continu-
ous work. We have yet
to meet the owner of a
Marshall
Engine who can tell us
that reasonable care was
used and that his engine
is worn out. Why not
follow the footsteps of
65,000 satisfied clients
using
"Marshall” Engines
Tractions, Portables, Oil Tractors,
Colonial and Vertical Boilers,
Horizontal 8 Vertical Stationary.
Let us know your requirements,
and suitable Catalogues will be
forwarded immediately.
CASH OR TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & C°™
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
a
u
E
v.
m
m
An even spread of shot with good penetration is
what you need for bird shooting, especially for fast
flyers. It is these qualities that have made Win-
chester “New Rival” cartridges so popular among
bird shooters. The Winchester system of loading
and wadding, which is the result of vast experi-
ence in manufacturing shotgun cartridges, seems
to be rather more successful than others. Besides,
the corrugation around the head of Winchester
cartridges, which is patented, is a great feature.
Winchester “ New Rival” cartridges are made extra
strong to permit reloading and are always satis-
factory. They are sold by all dealers.
LOOK FOR THE RED V! ON THE BOX
X
't-.s
s-~~
“New Rival”
Shotgun Cartridges
H NEW
fi!VAL“
Stewart Dawson & Co
(AUST.) LTD.
Their fine workmanship and high quality
make our Presentation and Gift Medals lifelong
memoirs. First Cost Prices bring these splendid
goods within the reach of all.
J.8533.—9ct. Gold MEDAL
—attractively embossed,
No. 19/3.—Oct. Golfl Australian
Souvenir MEDAL,
J. 6309. —9ct. Gold
Shield MEDAL,
10/0
We Pay Postage on all Goods to any address*
WRITE FOR A COPY OF OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED
ART CATALOGUE.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.


Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs.
30th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnaelatta Railway.
Wheels and Axles, 3ft. oin. Gauge.
rTIENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
I Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on
Supply and Delivery of 550 Pairs, of
17th 'June, 1913, for the Manufacture,
Wheels and Axles, 3ft. Oin. .Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
and after May 6th. 1913. at the following
offices : Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney ; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart; also, at the office
of the High Commissioner, London, on and
after the sth June.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed ovei\
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Wheels and Axles. 3ft. Gin. Gauge,” and be
accompanied by Deposit mentioned in the
form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affaii’s,
30th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
Bogie Cattle Waggons.
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Department of External Affaii’s, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on 3rd
June, 1913, for the Manufacture in Austra-
lia, Supply and Delivery of 30 Bogie; Cattle
Waggons, 3ft. Gin. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be' seen on
and after May 6th. 1913. at the following
offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 Williqm
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Bogie Cattle Waggons. 3ft. Gin. Gauge,” and
be accompanied by the Deposit mentioned
in the form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs,
30th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
Sheep Waggons (4-Wheel).
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on 3rd
June, 1913, for the Manufacture in Aus-
tralia, Supply and Delivery of Fifteen (15)
Sheep Waggons, 3ft. 6in. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
and gfter May 6th, 1913, at the following
offices: Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Bi-isbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Sheep Waggons, 3ft. Gin. Gauge,” and be ac-
companied by the Deposit mentioned in the
form pf tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs.
Ist May, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
12-Ton Waggons (4-Wheel).
TTIENDERS addressed to the Secretai’y,
I Department of Extexmal Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on
June 3rd, 1913, for the Manufacture in Aus-
tralia, Supply and Delivery of 80 12-ton
Waggons (4-Wheel), 3ft. 6in. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and Drawings can be seen on
and after May 6th, 1913, at the following
offigp?.!’' Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Stpept, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
director, Customs House, Sydney ; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
which must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
12-Ton Waggons,” and be accompanied by
the Deposit mentioned in the form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
/
ARABI’S CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN-HENNA,
for Grey Hair, the best and cheapest, Is. and 2s. 6d.
(Observe signature, Alfred Ardley, No. 7410.)
Avoid the counterfeiter (same case, same bottle).
Genuine obtainable: —
SYDNEY: MARK FOY’S, ALL CHEMISTS. W.
ASSOMULL and Stores.
MELBOURNE: EDMENT’S, FOY’S, COLE’S, MAC-
LELLAN’S. ALL CHEMISTS, W. ASSOMULL.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of External Affairs,
Melbourne, 24th April, 1913.
Port Augusta to Oodnadatta Railway.
3ft. Gin. Gauge Locomotive Engines and
Tenders.
riIENDEitS addressed to the Secretary,
_L Department of External Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received until 11 a.m. on
May 27, 1913, for the Manufacture in Aus-
tralia, Supply and Delivery of Fourteen
(14) Locomotive Engines and Tenders, 3ft.
Gin. Gauge.
Forms of Tender, Specification, Conditions
of Contract and General Arrangement
Drawings can be seen on and after
Tuesday, April 29th, 1913, at the following
offices : Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney ; and Com-
monwealth Works Registrars, Brisbane, Ade-
laide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be £1 Is., and ss. a copy for each Plan,
which, must be paid before the Documents
can be handed over.
Tenders should be endorsed “Tender for
Locomotive Engines and Tenders, 3ft. 6in.
Gauge,” and be accompanied by the De-
posit mentioned in the form of tender.
JOSIAH THOMAS,
Minister of State for External Affairs.
FELT HATS
WRITE
NOW.
7/6
POST
FREE.
‘‘THE TRAQUAIR”
Smartest Shape of the Season —an
ideal hat for autumn & winter. Worn by
women & girls everywhere. In black ::
white, navy & colors. Sent post free any-
where on receipt of 7/6 postal note.
MILLERS
270 Bourke St., Melbourne.
118 Rundle St. Adelaide 195 Pitt St. Sydney
jggNOTE THE SLOT
J ; 0"* The Best Tooth Powder
in The Best Container
'v-. rA
;Jev/sbury&Browns
fSH Oriental
itf.Tooth Powder
bnbvn
in the
United Kingdom
vbn
All the Family may
use the same box.
WHOLESALE AGENTS in SYDNEY.
Messrs. Elliorf Bros. Ltd.
. . F.H Faulding & Co.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALE, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
bvn
£4O A MONTH
loperating theNEW MODEL COMBIN-
ATION CAMERA. It takes and instant-
ly develops eleven entirely dif-
ferent styles of pictures, includ-
ing two sizes and four styles
PAPER POST CARDS,
six styles of Tintype Pictures,
and Brooch Pictures. Requires
no experience whatever. Every-
body wants pictures. Five hundred
per cent, profit. THE WORLD S
BIGGEST MONEY-MAKER. Small investment se-
cures complete outfit, including Camera, Tripod, and mate-
rial for 150 pictures. Make money *he first day no matter where
you live or what you are doing. , Detailed information free,
including letters from prosperous operators everywhere.
L. LASCELLE, 627 W. 43d St. p Dept. 772, New York
TIIH Australian Magazine—THE
HANI>. The National Monthly.
LONE
Price. 6d.
LU
REXOPMOME
RECORDS
FOR MAY NOW READY.
A®
10in. Double-sided. Price 2/6 each.
The May list of Rexophone Records contains such a
wealth of variety that there is something in it to suit
every record buyer.
Particularly deserving of mention are 5609. “Thora,” by
Phillip Ritte, one of the finfest tenor records ever made ;
Nos. 5366 and 5367, two Ragtime Hits, sung by the
popular Stanley Kirkby; and 5607, “The Kangaroo
Hop,” by Billy Wjlliams, in which this great artist
keeps right up-to-date with the Ragtime craze.
Call on your dealer to-day, and hear some of these fine
records.
<3
5353. Washington Grey’s March
(Gratulla) ;
The Gladiators’ Farewell March
(Blankenburg)—
Royal Regimental Band
5355. Red Pepper Rag (Lodge) ;
Cubanola Glide (H. V. Tilzer) —
Rexophone Military Band
5357. Pastoral Duet (“William Tell”).
Musicians Morton (Oboe) and
Chidlen (Flute);
My Favorite (Cornet Solo) —
, ■ Musician Sayer
5358. Ragtime Frolics (Xylophone Solo) ;
Irish Jigs (Xylophone Solo) —
'■4 Billy Whitlock
5359. Spring Polka (Bell Solo);
Dainty Dimples (Bell Solo) —
Albert Muller
5360. March Medley (Accordeon Solo);
Millieent and High Level Horn-
pipes (Accordeon Solo) —
Pamby Dick
5361. Who Am I?
The Butcher — Will Evans
5363. You Can’t Judge a Woman by Her
Clothes;
No More Stopping Out Late—
Andie Andrews
5364. When I Get Back Again Tae Bon-
nie Scotland (Harry Lauder) ;
The Weddin’ o’ Sandy McNab
(Harry Lauder) —
Sandy McGregor
5365. Mikado Selections, “Flowers That
Bloom in the Spring” (Whistling
Solo);
Ma Curly-headed Babby (Clutsam),
(Whistling Solo) —
Guido Gialdini
5366. Yiddle On Your Fiddle (Irving
Berlin) ;
Ragtime Violin (Irving Berlin) —
Stanley Kirkby
5367. He Played It On His Fiddle-de-dee;
Head Me To That Beautiful Band
(Irving Berlin) —
Stanley Kirkby
5368. Scatter Seeds of Kindness;
Wliat Shall the Harvest Be?—
Cathedral Quartette
5443. My Dreams (Tosti) ;
Mary (Richardson) —
John Bardsley (tenor)
5447. The Laughing Family (Penrose) ;
The Cigar Girl (Davis)—
Mr. Charles Penrose (The Laugh-
ing Comedian);
5601. A Hundred Fathopis Deep (Shat-
tuek);
The Diver (Loder) —
Tom F. Kinniburgh
0603. Wearing of the Green;
Killarney (Balfe)
Phillip Ritte
5606. When the Sheep are in the Fold;
When the Springtime Brings the
Roses— Stanley Kirkby
5607. The Kangaroo Hop;
It’s a Grand Old Song is “Home,
Sweet Home”—
. Billy Williams
5609. Thora (Adams);
Mona (Adams) —
' ■ _ _ Phillip Ritte
0611. The Girl I Loved in Sunny Ten-
nessee ;
She Was Bred in Old Kentucky—
Stanley Kirkby
Ask for our Complete Catalogue of Rexophones and Rexophone Records.
Jacßson &, Macdonald,
457 KENT STREET, Corner Druitt Street, SYDNEY.
The Precedent Foolishness.
“Gordon G.” advances an iden th Q f l
Charm of Novelty that has the
Should our .Judges continue to blindlv fnii™,
cedent as they do in so many cases at preS p !*
put the question in another form- I. th. W , r °
Judge, taking him in the mass, invariably andT 1 ®"
sarilv a bigger fool than his predecessor’ T A neees '
tended often that the precedent practice,' with alLi?'
adeged faults, does, at any rate, make for certa '!
which, although perhaps not the noblest of
in itself a huge asset, which should not light,lV
cast aside. It is further claimed that in thfmatter
of precedent-following, the Judges cannot help ft er ! r
selves ; that the question is one not of common „
but of law; and that, even though the“TH £*■
larly regarded as an ass and all sorts of Vas
animal life, it must in the present stated
affairs b.e obeyed As to the Judges of to-day beini
less capable in the main, than those of vesteiWr?
simply don’t believe it. As to the precedent practk
making tor certainty, when one looks into the anS
workings of this deplorable svstem, it will be fmm
to be one of the most uncertain’things on art h
Mark how lawyers shun a law-court where their
personal grievances are concerned. Also consider
this connection the system of appeals. Since no tw"
cases are precisely alike, the result of an issue aW
invariably depends on the diligence or luck of soliri
tors, counsel and clerks—a virtue which enables them
to find amid hundreds of decisions principles which
they can induce a Court to hold to be more nearlv
applicable to their side of the case than those nut
forward by their adversaries. The litigant himsel
has no say whatever. He merely supplies the where
withal in return for the privilege of watching the
feast of the vultures. The stakes, of course keen
on mounting higher and higher as each additional
wiseacre is engaged and each successive Court an
pealed to. The end is rarely signalled till the stakes
have reached the limit. The advantages are, of course
many and obvious—the lawyers have raked in costs’
the Judges have aired some profound legal know-
ledge, and the client has gained experience. He has
“gone to law” and got law—precedent law—law with
a vengeance. Possibly (if his stakes have held out)
he has finally got justice, too—nrobablv he has not
But there is only one thing which the system has
made a “certainty”—he has in any event paid a
price. The last of the above contentions is, per-
haps, the most rational. With regard to this,’ how-
ever, practical experience has shown what an easv
matter Judges find it to get round and over and
through old cases when they really wish to do so.
Witness the marvellous capacity of that tireless
haunter of the Law Libraries, Justice Isaacs, in this
respect. There is a remedy, and it can be summed
up in two words—“legislative intervention.” It
would, of course, be a drastic measure for any one
Government to take on itself to see . through, but it
would undoubtedly receive a big support. If anyone
entertains any doubts as to whether any other system
would be workable. I would refer him to the law
which obtains in France, Belgium and other non-
British communities. In any of such places a Judge
is free to obey the dictates of his own conscienpe.
British law is unique in denying him such a privi-
ledge. If the laws of other countries are not superior
to our own, it is not because they are free of this
all-binding force. I think most people will agree
when I say that if this particular legal encum-
brance were wiped out. the general public would
almost begm to suspect that law was, after all,
possibly half-brother to justice.
The heroic person who faces the grim tiger
of Sosh doesn’t confine the gentle art of
misrepresentation to the lands where the
animal is on the chronic rampage. A book
called “Diseased Communities” has just
been published in Chicago-, showing up Aus-
tralia and Maoriland as they really are.
The author describes Australia as a country
where the slow poison of Sosh is destroying
enterprise, love, modesty, and even the per-
son who traffics in real estate; but Maori-
land is to Australia as the murk of midnight
to the sandals of Hyperion :
Take all I have written about the sleepy, anti-
quated aspect of everything in Australia, and quad-
ruple it, and you can begin to imagine Maoriland.
The sleepy, backward old towns of Australia, with
their poor hotels, are to the Maorilanders wonders
of brightness, and they figure on the time when
they will be rich enough to go and live in Aus-
tralia. .. .Nobody is planting orchards or building
up fine farms. Except for a small tract just south
of Auckland, probably a freehold settlement, every-
thing throughout the country has a hopeless, aban-
doned look ; you feel that it is incurable. Ine
Maoriland farmer when he gets old or breaks down
must turn his leasehold back to the State, step on
without anvthing, and wait until he gets to be bJ
years old to get his dollar and a half per week as
a pauper.
All this is sad; in fact, it is so tear-pro-
voking that, if any comes of the book
be spared after the Chicago election that
called it forth is over, it ought to be-cjistr
bated about Christchurch and Dunedin n
order that the people there may know exacn
what their awful Socialism is like in t
eyes of an American politician. It womo
help them to apnreciate _ Massey si idea o
fee simple which only includes the to P ,
inches of soil or so, and reserves the eartn-
worms and trap-door spiders to the t>ta
“OK”- The prosiness of Joe Cook has
struck a chill to the hearts of all
eral electors of Victoria who latel
him deliver his address on Cabpr
ment. The lack of political ij
what Joseph says is less complained oti ll tbe
his wearisomely slow- manner of s S .
thing that isn’t worth mentioning fie t s,f
ously analyses the published statem
Hitches, Fisher and Co., _ as n * rbl J d
in the Fusion press, droning he
on and getting no nearer t° p , if an
nromised to make when he start j,j g
hour previously. Negatives drip . Q
lips like water from a Pedant t 0 hear
thaw time, and the people who came
him spout positives feel horrib^ stagnation
of belonging to the Party of
which chose poor old Joe_ for t
Their hopes sink into their boots.■
listen with the air of mourne: rs - ce f ro m
their own funeral. Pei T SwHES and Fisher
the back cries : “Forget Hughes ana
for a minute, and tell « s .^“ e &er w
yourself.” to which the placid e were
plies, “Give me time, as thoug up .
being bustled. No idea of d from
sneakableness of Joe can be g utfer-
the Fusion journals reports 0 *< p ifge.”
ances, wherefrom the foolishness. pru(je-
of his figures of comparison a . are
ness of his attempts at word-pamtmg
not revealed. To hear Joe to
speech is to fathom the deptl s . j. use j,
which Liberalism has sunk tions t°
He merely grinds out doll L jugubri-
other people’s proposals. H | , nia n of
ously. J. Cook is the hurdy-gurdy m
Federal Politics. „, 0 Co j:
[Edmund Fisher, The Bulletin Office,
lins-street, Melbourne.]
Why Every Man Should Grow a oas -g A ap pear-
A moustache does more than improve a , g pr-
ance. It protects his health. It is n t an d
vision for the shielding of the mouth I denied
cald winds. Unfortunately, thid P r °t®9 bt a fe#
tq many men. They can grow notin g will
prickly bristles on their u PP er .“P-, JL „ r>rep ara '
be glad to hear of “Capillarine. thou-
tion which has grown a fine, full moust js sold
sands of men during the past 30 ye® • g v ,] ne y. at
by Craig and Aitken, 654 George.ht •
the moderate price of 10s, Gd. a jar P


No. 3a Folding Pocßet
Kodak 90J-
Here is an ideal Camera for the holiday-maker. It takes the full-size postcard picture
xs4 inches, and is splendidly made and finished. Equipment includes Double Rapid
Rectilinear Lens, Kodak Ball-bearing Shutter, Automatic Focussing Lock, Brilliant
Reversible Finder, and two Tripod Sockets. Body is of first-quality aluminium, covered
with fine, black seal-grain leather, and all fittings are nickelled. Top-coat pocket size.
Weight, 41oz. Price, 90/-
The Height
of Enjoyment
is to take a Kodak Camera with you on all your holiday motor-
ing tours, outings and jaunts, and to “snap,' at your leisure,
all those charming tit-bits of beautiful scenery which so often
appeal to you, and make you wish for a permanent picture
record of them.
Then there are the occasions upon which you can secure happy
little portraits of your friends, in familiar places, free from
the stiffness of studio productions, and with a special appeal
that cannot be resisted, to sav nothing of the pictures you can
make of your home and pets, and many other interesting
items.
No previous experience is necessary in order to be completely
successful in the use of a Kodak Camera. The dark room is
obsolete, because Kodak has made it so.
(3ET THIS KODAK. —‘It’s the smallest made—dainty, efficient, com-
pact, easily worked, and easily understood. Will fit a waistcoat
pocket or lady’s handbag, takes pictures If x inches, works in
daylight all the way, and is fitted with a carefully selected Lens, Ball-
bearing Shutter, Brilliant Reversible Finder, and Autotime Scale.
Price, 30/-; postage, extra 6d. Descriptive pamphlet free.
Call and let us tell you more about Kodak Photography. It’s a
pleasure to us to do this for you, and you’ll find it interesting.
Brownie Kodaks from 5/- to 50/- Regular Kodak Cameras, from
21/- Kodak Catalogue free.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY : 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: "The Block,” 284 Collins Str«
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 78-80 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA s Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE : Flinders Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
WELLINGTON. N.Z. : 6 Mercer Street.
oxr—ho*.
V/
n
w
/r,
I
•V
rc
2
Mmj
!
M 2mmL
‘ Viyelf&A Never Shrinßs
“Vivella” defies both time and tub. It is the best material for family use, and the fact that it is unshrinkable will please every housewife,
as the shrinking tendencies of many otherwise good fabrics is a sou rce of continual worry and anxiety in the home.
“Viyella” is smart in appearance, light and soft in texture, and of such a porous nature as to allow free air circulation, and to, at the same
time, preserve the body at a normal temperature.
Use “Viyella” for Ladies’ Blouses, Nightdresses and Undergarments; Men’s Shirts and Pyjamas; and Children’s Frocks, Nightdresses and
Underclothing.
All up-to-date storekeepers and drapers stock “Viyella.” See the name on the selvedge. If unobtainable in your district, write to us and
we will give you the address of the nearest retailer handling it.
I. CBL R.. MORLEY,
56 MarKet Street, Sydney; or 250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Ideal Day and Night Wear
ilw
Sal
m
m
m
Wr,
t
m
$
v IIU«^
WMSWIIW
'Sk


HORSESHOE
SALMON
The experienced housewife keeps a can of
Horseshoe on her pantry shelf. She has
learned just how quickly it meets the emergency —
how it provides, in a moment, a nutritious, in-
viting meal.
Varies the Daily Catering in the Best Way
Travelling Caps.
3 9 Post Free.
The Dr. Jaeger Travelling Cap. Can be
worn folded up as ordinary travelling cap ii
required; a godsend for train and boat
Travellers, or for riding or driving, or any
occasion when you are exposed to severe cold.
Post Free to your door 3/9
r
MOTOR SCARFS.
4/11 Post Free.
Good, warm Quality in White, Grev- or
Brown, for motoring, driving, ruling
travelling by train or boat. .
Post Free to your door 11
FINNEY’S,
The Drapers of Queensland)
BRISBANE. :
Missing Friends.
ROBERT LOUDON,
PLEASE write to sister, JESSIE
LOUDON,
18 RUE VERTE, MONS,
BELGIUM-
TF JAMES BILLING, son °f Joseph
heard of as a sailor on the golici-
will communicate with J. W. MACDONALD- s he
tor, Public Trust Office, Wellington, Ne»
will hear something to his advantage. rnvrJrY
INFORMATION of ,
ELLIS, sou of NORMAN ELLIS,
heard of at Mary Street, Kew, by
will hear something to his adtar g
communicating with MACD ONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Tnjt J
Wellington, New A al^
T) BOTHERS and SISTERS of JOSEPH Ft) Bust i
JD late of D’Urville Island (New ,^f adva ntage
Feller, will hear of something to t .nnoNAhD.
by communicating with J.• w ffij n o-ton, N eW
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office, Vi
Zealand,
IN BANANA LAND
News of a dread-
ful massacre:—-
Croydon can still
breed goats if it can
no longer raise divi-
dends. But the numer-
ous William and his
retinue have at last
caused the patient
Northerner to rise in
revolt and smite with
vigor and language.
The Croydonite hasn’t
much objection t o
meeting the offspring
on his dinner plate
when he orders lamb,
but when it came to
camping on the pub
verandahs and spoil-
ing the heavenly smell
of his beer, it was a
giraffe of a different
color. So the citizens
called upon the
Mayor, and asked him
what he was going to
do about it; and the
Mayor promptlv pro-
ceeded to “do” the
necessary. Altogether
3000 of the bearded
gentlemen, with their
wives and families,
were yarded. About
600 were released on
registration, and the
council clerk hadn’t
collected so much
money for a long
time; the remainder
either had no owners,
or else their owners
had no money, and
they (the four-legged
animals) were duly
submitted at auction.
The 2400 goats
brought 3d. per head,
and were slaughtered.
The hides went south,
and some tannery will
bulge with a new odor
on their arrival.
At the opening of th° Yarraman line the
Lynch sisters gave the Parliamentary party
an exhibition of wood-craft. The two girls
felled a bjg tree with a cross-cut saw, barked
it. took off the head and made it ready for
the mill. There is no doubt the Queensland
climate has a paralysing effect on the phy-
sical powers of womankind.
The Law iu Queensland has got off a
grim jest. A Chow, charged with butchering
a fellow-Chow, was pushed into a cell at
Cairns, and was presently found fay gone in
leprosy. The Law has now struck the case
out, merely intimating that it will deal with
him when he leaven the Peel Island lazaret.
Miss Eugenie Boland, a Toowoomba singer
just back from the Cold Land, has been tell-
ing the interviewers that England is no place
for white labor. “It isn’t the cold that plays
up with you in England—it’s the fogs and
the darkness. You think, 'l’ll do so-and-so
after Lunch,’ but after lunch comes darkness,
the lamps are lit, and you do nothing.”
The Toowoomba Town Council takes the
cake for lavish generosity. The other day
that body got rid of a foreman of works who
had served it faithfully for 32 years. This
henchman actually got one month's holiday
with full pay to solace him for his invest-
ment with the ancient and honorable Order
of the Sack.
Years ago one Fatta Deen, a 'Hindoo, was
hanged down South after stubbornly refus-
ing to listen to all Christian ministrations.
According to The Bulletin’s old contribu-
tor. “Titus Salt,” this was his attitude
Iu the evil place of my father’s race there is room
enough for me,
And the dark Hindoo will not burn with you in a
borrowed eternity.
T’other day another Deen, compatriot of
Fatta, was hanged in Brisbane for the mur-
der of a countryman. According to the gaol
chaplain, “his religion was Buddhism, but
he died a Christian.” Evidently he wasn’t
afraid to swap horses while crossing the
stream.
“Don Q.”: Isn’t it about time the cele-
bration of Eight Hours’ Day w T as simul-
taneous throughout Australia? Take
Queensland as an instance of the present
scheme —which looks like a swift dog with a
holiday tied to its careering tail. In Bris-
bane, Labor day occurs on the first Mon-
day in May, and that is the statutory holi-
day throughout the State. But each little
town wants to jamboree on its own, either
to show its parish independence, or to en-
able its dreadful brass band and Road
Mayor to uproar in adjacent little towns on
different days. So the Minister is worried
into gazetting permission for a series or
rotation of the Eight Hours’ holiday. Thus,
Ipswich, 24 miles from Brisbane, holds its
Commemoration on April 14; Brisbane,
Rockhampton, Townsville and Charters
Towers observe the State date (first Mon-
day in May) ; Toowoomba breaks forth on
the following Monday (May 12) ; Gympie
and Bundaberg select any old date. If the
foolery spreads much farther it will soon be
nossible, by dint of hard travelling, for a
loafer to spend a whole year celebrating
eight hours work a day !
DUBIOUS.
ARTISTIC SOUL (enthusiastically): “Look at
that now. Can't you see now how clothes
spoil the beautiful lines of the human
figure?"
STOUT PARIV (doubtfully): “ Er — er — y — es!"
The Jag and the Jug!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The P.M. remarked, in dealing with John Blank)
an habitual inebriate, against whom there were 00
convict ions —“ The only thing to save you is to send
you to gaol.”— Queensland daily.
As he went from the Jag to the Jug
He pondered his faded notations ;
He dreamt of the dead and gone spree.
Of the Serpents that rioted free.
Of the fights he had fought.
And the creepers he’d caught.
And the way lie had narked his relations ;
But thhy thrust him again
In the cell of his pain ;
Because they were sick of his mug
They thrust him down there in tin* .lug.
As he came from the Jug to the lag,
He saw' at no very great distance
A glass of the color O.K.
Shine foaming and fresh on the way.
“Ho, tankard so coy,
Come hither, my joy,
And light up again my existence !
In visions of sleep
I drank of thee deep,
And longed for the day when I’d drag
With joy from the Jug to the Jag.”
As he shook off the Jug for the Jag.
He laughed in a manner splendacious—-
F’or back came the days of his prime—
When Earth as a tap w 7 as sublime,
When Joy was a tipple,
And Care was a cripple,
And Life was both specious and spacious ;
His hat had again the old sag.
His coat was again the old rag,
He shook off Propriety’s swag
With joy as he jumped for the Jag.
So, again, he was haled to the Jug,
Away from the Jag that he cherished :
A Beak who was crusty and gray
Remarked, as he stow'ed him away :
“Where Sin cannot soil
In peace he can toil
Till some day his thirst will have perished !”
And so with a time-honored gag
They shut up the joys of the .Tag :
With a shudder and shrug
And a sermon so smug,
They closed up his Jag with the Jug.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, May 10, 1913.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
The howl of the Parliamentary candidate
fills the land, to the exclusion of other and
more interesting noises. Verv few feeds
or other social events have happened, and his
Ex. still hides in the backblocks. Lady
Mac., the Vision, and the Paget child are
afloat somewhere near the mouth of the
river, and the sad rags of a departed sum-
mer have not yet been replaced by the joyous
frillery of an advancing winter.
The invitations are out for the Whitting-
ham-Taylor wedding. The celebration break-
fast is to be snread at Mayfield, lately bought
by the prospective bridegroom.
Talking of invitations reminds me of cards
that lately were sent out by a dame who has
spent much time in the Bull country. Her
tickets for a small and select affair had one
corner turned down, and the untravelled
suburbanite regarded the piece of cardboard
with awe, as being the latest idea from
London. That was until a newly-wed young
English matron turned up the nose of scorn
at the gilt-edged error. It appears, my
dear, that a bent bit of pasteboard in Lon-
don signifies that the owner of it has called
in person, hung on furiously to your bell,
and nearly torn it out by the roots. Com-
mon or garden cards, in all their vulgar
squareness, are left by the groom. And now
our Very Best are referring in a commiser-
ating way to Mrs. Blank, who does not know
any better.
The Catholic Club of Queensland was
opened on Thursday night, in City Build-
ings. A smoke concert and some speechify-
ing were the principal sidelines, although
Archbishop Duhig, Dr. Shiel (Bishop-elect
of Rockhampton), Judge Real, and a nice
assortment of honorable and reverend visi-
tors were well in the running. One of the
speakers mentioned that the furniture was
paid for, and that a cash balance was resting
in the bank. That w r as the grand slam of
the evening.
Mrs. Harry Beardmore, wife of H. G.
Beardmore, of the Bacteriological Depart-
ment, was found drowned in the Brisbane
River on Thursday. No one knows how the
dreadful accident occurred. Five little
Australians, one very young, are left.
Miss Byrnes entertained a large party of
guests at Caf6 Eschenbagen on Tuesday
afternoon, in honor of Mrs. Douglas Mills,
England. Miss Leeper, of Warwick, as-
sisted Auntie to welcome and feed the guests,
and nephew Desmond was also in attend-
ance.
The Races at Ascot were not wildly thrill-
ing this afternoon. Good dividends, like
good politicians, were few and far between,
and the frocking was scrappy, like the policy
of State Frights, which has nothing to re-
commend it in the summer and less than that
in the winter and other times.
A Quaker, one Alfred Brown, has been
visiting this city, pleading the right of
“Friends” to refuse to fight for their women
and children when the yellow danger over-
runs Australia. Another pet scheme of his
is the disarmament of the world, England
to lead the way. It is a great scheme, and
Alfred ought to go right along and whisper
it into ear of the Empire which is kept
in the Tower of London, or thereabouts.
The Clayfield Bowling Club had a euchre
and bridge party at Rowe’s Cafe on Thurs-
day night. The winners bagged the usual
spoon and rose bowl prizes, and the supper
was of the kind calculated to make a glutton
of the mildest indigestion.
Miss Grant, sister of the Hon. Kenneth of
that clan, has been appointed head mistress
of the Kangaroo Point State Kindergarten, in
place of Mrs. Downes, who was weepfully
farewelled last week. Miss Grant has been
very successful as a teacher in Rocklrtmp
ton, and about the time Mrs. Downes was
nicking good-bye tokens in her carpet bag,
Miss Grant was doing the same further
North.
“The Quaker Girl” and “Miss Hook of
Holland” followed “Florodora.” The last
was the best of all the pieces played in Bris-
bane by the J.C.W. Co. Perhaps that
was because pretty dresses and pleasant ex-
pressions made up for the shortage in voices.
On Monday the co. will play for the last
time this season, before a military and naval
audience. Some bottle-oh’s may be there,
but not in uniform. By the way, what is
the uniform in the bottle-oh service?
The City Ladies’ Swimming Club gave a
dance at Eschenhagen’s on Tuesday night,
and Mrs. E. H. Macartney doled out the
year’s trophies to the club’s prize athletes.
The shire councils at the seaside villages
near Brisbane badly need a galvanic shock.
At Redcliffe, almost the only spot one can
spend a peaceful Sabbath, the pier has been
allowed to get into a disgraceful state of
disrepair. On a holiday, when the Emerald
and the Koopa arrive, both crowded to their
utmost capacity, the wretched structure
sways dismally under the passengers’ weight.
The mere inhabitant of the village is not
allowed to even walk upon the pier at these
times, let alone leap, but is barred off at the
shore end, and has to collect his relatives
and friends very much in the same manner
as luggage is collected after it is thrown
through the fence. Some day the wooden
joke will collapse, and several dozen people
will rush the responsible councils for a bar-
rowful of damages. And great will be the
howl of the local Road Board and the re-
trenchment of rabbit inspectors.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.
[This letter .appears much as “Australia Jane” wrote
it, except for the allusion to State Frights. 'That poli-
tical interpolation is the work of John Barr, The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, who hereby signs as a law-
abiding citizen with an eye to the Act. ]
One Malachi McPhee, of Mackay, will re-
member Premier Denham’s northern tour to
his dying day. Malachi was driving his
milk c-art along the railway line, when the
Premier’s special train bumped into and
smashed the vehicle, hurling Malachi into a
cattle grid. The train passed over McPhee.
his body being some 3in. from the rails, and
did him no further hurt, the sum total of his
injuries being a few scalp wounds. The
train went on unscathed, Denham’s policy
being left intact and beautiful. This attack
by a big butter-man on a humble milk-vendor
has no political significance.
At Mackay, the other moraine ,
deputatiou dropped in to see the’<b,k ~n ge
tor of Customs. They were the w' C c ec '
born offspring ~f the* South S e a A ", S a K“-
wlioni the old Will,, gang A,,,,),,,,
fields with some years ago. Thel , Ugar
to know badly if they would have
out naturalisation papers. BrisbaneV a T
quarters informed them that thev head '
already full-blown subjects of GwS* &
and citizens of no mean country ■’
gave the gruesome information' T u
headquarters said something vieornn, „«i Pe
its breath about the mixed SSs
have come home to roost. tnat
The ‘‘Home Rule” cry. raised hv
anti-Referendaists, has met with .‘el,
accident in Queensland. One Fonwtv al
selected as the State Fright-Home V? 8
"Liberal” candidate for VrisbaTe • Cto
against F mlayson, the sitting Laborite \t y ’
it appears that, in 1906, Mr FYnwiVV' ° W
an alderman of Townsville, and two
came along to crave a little help (oL i f
tule for Ireland. .Not only did
Fenwick oppose a motion that the couSi
should give the visitors a civic recent?
but he voted against the spending iok
upon them. And just to deprive himself
of the possible argument that he was ™
posed on general principles to civic Wi
comes and the spending of municipal m,Xv
on foreign wanderers, the same Mr JW
wick had obligingly voted £5O just previously
Japanese. " m "’ ent ° f *5
[E. J. Dunn. 223 Adelaide-street, Brisbane]
Brisbane Courier, raising its small-<W
whine against the Referenda from its kennel
somewhere m the vast exnanse of a conti
nent. quotes ex-Attorney-General Glynn of
the FTised Ministry, to suit its State Snite
purposes, and says of him that “no informed
person thinks of questioning his word ” The
Bulletin also has some faith in Glynn’s
word. It was Glynn, who, in* his
capacity as legal adviser to the Fuse, set out
in memorandum form that out of 33 com
bines operating in Australia, the Common-
wealth could deal with only three or four
and those not effectively, without a freer
Constitution than that which then hand-
cuffed (and, of course, still handcuffs) the
nation’s prosecuting arm. He was of
opinion, too, that the States, as individuals
were in no better case. In fact, he urged
that the only way out of the hopelessness
was an amendment of the Constitution to
enable the Australian Parliament to make
laws with respect to “trusts, combinations
and monopolies in restraint of trade in
any State or portion of the Commonwealth."
As the Courier says, “no informed person
can question Glynn’s word.” Which does not
necessarily mean that the Courier is
called upon to believe it.
r.Tr> w? j Rarr. The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]


;?V-
-in
sir
r
4 4
*<
n
U 7
rs
&
4
. wm
•#*v-
##
P i#
3576
CHATEAU TANUNOA
Since Eighty-nine from Pure Crape Wine
IN the Chateau, at Tanunda, the home of Chateau Tanunda Brandy, there are hundreds of thousands of gallons
of Pure Grape Brandy, the great bulk of which is reserve stock waiting for the hand of time to give it the
finishing touch of age.
In the Chateau thousands of gallons of Brandy from fifteen to twenty years old are stored in the immense
vats, this fine old spirit being used for blending purposes only.
Three senior Customs Officers are permanently located at the Chateau to see that the Government s
' conditions as to age, purity and quality are duly carried out.
Day after day hundreds of hogsheads of Chateau Tanunda Brandy pass into Bonded stores, there to remain
for not less than five years. At the end of that time the Brandy is released from Bond only to go through a
further maturing process and to wait until it is in that perfect condition that has won for Chateau Tanunda
Brandy so much praise from connoisseurs.
Ask for Chateau Tanunda—the Pure Australian Standard Brandy.


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
GEELONG .. ..1 8000 j Hid well 7T ..,.111116 15
BENALLA .. . . i 11,12 ) Simmonds .. ..Jnne2B
BELTANA ~ ..'lM°niLiiitrtinin 'J'Bv 13
Wireless ins' ailed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 IBs., £l5 15s. & £1? 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson k Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Oal>ines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEV,
Melbourne; Adelaide, and fremantle.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Pi.ach, Sydnkv.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c
GOVERNMENT SAVINGS BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Head Office: 11 Moore Street, Sydney.
(Guaranteed by the State Government).
Has Now No Connection
with the Post Offices.
The Bank has 116 Branches and
500 Agencies throughout the State.
DEPOSITS received from 1/- to £5OO-
-T —3 >4% from £1 to £3OO,
and 3% on the excess up to £5OO.
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: B. It. LOVE.
Bankers: TIIE LONDON COUNTY It WESTMINSTER
BANK, LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE.
Australian Bank uf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st December, 1912).. £1,195,274
RESERVE FUND £15,000
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir WYlliam P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Si.y, Esq., LL.D.; Chas. 11.
Myles, Esq. ; Make Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales It Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Connrtonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1563.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Line 30. 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £SOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,590 14 6
Reserve . . . . ■ • . . 130,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Denos.t rt.ck 3.091.6G9 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since JSOS specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON FIXED DEPOSITS.—
12 months, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum; 2
rears and over, at the rate of 4 4 per cent, per annum.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
New Zealand Insurance
CO.,
Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
LIVE STOCK and GENERAL.
WEALTHIEST COLONIAL COMPANY.
INSURANCES EFFECTED at LOWEST Current Rates.
FIRE and MARINE BRANCH: 77 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ACCIDENT BRANCH: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J. A. Minnett & A. E. D’Arcy, Joint Managers.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Shipping;'
N.D.L.
NORDDEUTSCHER-LLOYD
MAIL, STEAMERS
To Colombo, Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and
Bremen.
All steamers fitted with “Wireless” Installation.
All steamers fitted with Laundry.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE from Sydney
and Brisbane, via German New Guinea, Yap,
Angaur or Maron. Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ;
OSTERMEYER, VAN ROMPAEY k Co., Melbourne;
11. MUECKE k CO., Adelaide;
L. RATAZZI k CO., Pertli and Fremantle;
TIIOS. BROWN k SONS. Ltd.. Brisbane k Townsville.
Bank of |)eui Z ea ' an^
SYDNUY IJKANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . ... 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,240,587
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Great liri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
vnb
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIC, about JUNE 20.
AFRIC, about JULY 9.
SUEVIC, about JULY 30.
PERSIC, about AUG. 26.
CERA MIC, 18,000 tons, about SEPT. 24
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0t0£24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
Melbourne . . . . 110 0
New York. Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from 25 0 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
Howard Smith Co. Ltd., Managing Agents.
Fast Passenger Steamers
» T.S.S. CANBERRA (8000 tons).
* S.S. COOMA,
*S.S. BOMB ALA,
*Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Leave Ports as follows:
MELBOURNE every Wednesday.
SYDNEY every Saturday. *■
BRISBANE every Tuesday and Wednesday.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma) every Wednesday
and Monday.
MACKAY every Thursday and Sunday.
TOWNSVILLE every Saturday.
T.S.S. INDARRA (wireless telegraphy), 10,000
tons, carrying first-, second- and third-class
passengers, for MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
and FREMANTLE,-transhipping for all S.A. and
W.A. Ports.
From SYDNEY. MAY 24.
From MELBOURNE, MAY 28.
From ADELAIDE, MAY 31.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
BURNS-PHILP
Island Tours for Health and Holidays
ARE BECOMING DESERVEDLY POPULAR WITH
AUSTRALIANS EVERYWHERE.
S.S. “MATUNGA”
leaves SYDNEY, MAY 19,
for Queensland and Papua.
f 5 WEEKS’ HOLIDAY,
1 £.20.
S.S. “MALAITA”
leaves SYDNEY, MAY 31,
for Norfolk Island, New Hebrides.
f 3 WEEKS’ HOLIDAY,
\ £l2 10/-
S.S. “MINDINI”
leaves SYDNEY, JUNE 14,
for Solomon Islands.
f 5 WEEKS’ HOLIDAY,
| £.20.
APPLY PROMPTLY. ACCOMMODATION LIMITED.
BURNS, PHILP (Si CO. LTD., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
vnb
vnbvnb
£3,000,000
£2,150,000
£3,000,000
£8.1 50.000
:sHoxoauia
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jariies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: "Shepheard Edgecliffe Laidley, Esq.; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., EC.
With 335 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua. Agents and Corres-
pondents throughout the World. _... .. . ,
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. I< oreign Bills negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
..£1,749,978 2 6
. . 1,580,000 0 0
. . 1,750,000 0 0
£5,079,978 2 6
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq .. . • Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Hater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. •• •• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock). 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man . Edwd. D. Dav. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
•21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the 1\ orld.
fhe Colonial (!)utual bite
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,358,229.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £5,600,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:.
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook hiand),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest and finest steamer trading between
Sydney and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
■* t-
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
. U If lON S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“ Vlimaroa,”
“Rivcrina, ”
“Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modem Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH i ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And All Ports,
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHTpco.
EXPRESS PASSENGER' SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports. *
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transshipping: at FreinanDle I
to all North Western Porr.-s. J
T.S.S. Wandilla, May 27
and June 25.
T.*.;s. Warilda, June 7
and July 5.
Fi t A ed «? il ' eleSSTele " rai>h V.
kach Steamer 8000 tons
Carrying Three Classes
1,2, o and 4-Berth Cabins
BRISBANE
mackav
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oftirn*.
S.S. Innamincka, May 17
S.S. Allinga, Mav ‘'4.
S.S. Wollowra, May 31
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchan<'eahl ß «/»
the first Port of call with other intcr-State Compariica
on all services subject to conditions, which on,
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Routs
♦
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN -AUSTRALASIAN R M
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
’New triple-screw sterner, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suite, Nursery, Ipundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Steam to Colombo, Port Said, London
and Liverpool ( Via Suez Canal).
T.S.S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,600 Tons. W. L. PRENTICE, Commander.
Will be despatched from—
BRISBANE, MAY 24.
SYDNEY, MAY 28.
MELBOURNE, MAY 31.
The Saloon accommodation consists of all two-
berth cabins, on the Upper deck, situated amidships.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
decks. Third-class passengers supplied with fresh
provisions from cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. . .
Return and Round Trip Tickets issued via Cape
and (or) Sufez Route. Prepaid passages arranged.
Saloon. Third-class.
Fares to London £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea Extra.
FITTED WITH WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY— .
Oct. IS | Dec. 13
he through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San f-rancisco.
tETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
?el. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNE
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and rrji.
... 10,000 tons
T.S.S.
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
INDARRA”
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
'.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
~S. “ WYANDRA”
* Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Winter Tours to Cairns and Fiji are hig T jful
ended for the salubrious climate and beaU g
enery, and Tourists will find that Virrangfinents
ay.’s steamers possess all up-to-date asng
r convenience and comfort, niak g ‘ ( an( j
sy an.d pleasant. After first port ofE«£ l : all
icond Saloon Tickets are 1 s.S. Coy-’ 8
iterstate Gompanics, also with theUn n » plica -
eamers in the Fiji Trade; partic lars on apP A sk
on. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
>r a Printed Pamphlet. IUITVR
URNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, 11 »Q'nr.F STREET, SYDNE
bv
Fits “Wonder” has
No "Bromic of Potash^
Safe, Certain Cu**~
6 Bottles posted
Write for particulars-
T. H. MERSON)
16 Hunter f 5" Melbourne'
229 Collins St., Men>°


THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCCA. MAcgEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BSSRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the US.- WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6,d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
EORGE HOTEL
St. Kild a, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Pier Hotel Glenelg Limited,
South Australia.
New High-Class Residential Hotel
(The Finest in the State.)
BEAUTIFUL SEA FRONTAGE.
SPACIOUS PROMENADE' BALCONIES.
LUXURIOUS WINTER GARDEN, LOUNGES,
DRAWING ROOMS, SMOKING ROOMS.
ELEVATORS WORKING DAY AND NIGHT.
CUISINE UNSURPASSED. TARIFF MODERATE.
Correspondence promptly attended to.
G. F. FOX,
Tel., Glenelg 16. Manager.
UHLS CATALOGUE
Uhl and Sons (The Premier Harness i and
Saddlery House) have just .revised ■) their.
Catalogue and Price List.
Every care has been taken to show by
illustration iand description many of the
items we manufacture, such as Harness, Sad-
dlery, Bagware and Horse Bugs, etc., and
offered at prices that by buying elsewhere
means extravagance.
Fill in and post Coupon NOW; we’ll send
Post Free our Catalogue, which you’ll find
very useful.
Name
Address
L. UHL & SONS, Ltd
Petrie Bight, Brisbane.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends’are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a, hog-sldn seat, a plated bar-tree, extra-
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economic
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-’,
tecting its interior from the weather. It has> a'
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, niekel-platW
iron stirrups, and double-buckle, leather girth. The,
price cdrhplete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your, having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
vnb
dedcert;
’ Kills
Cockroaches.
CEORCE COUGH & C "“ J 1 n albert St., Brisbane
Commonwealth #!|§ Bank of Hustralla
° Pen the transaction of General Banking: Business throughout Australia
New South Wales-S.vdney and Canberra. Victoria-Melbourne. Queensland-Brisbane and
Townsville. South Australia— Adelaide. Western Austral ia-Perth Tasmania— Hobart
And at Egypt House, 36-38 New Broad Street, London
Cabie remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign Pills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued to any part of the world. Hills negotiated or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
Commonwealth, United Kingdom and foreign countries.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
Agencies *.re open in practi ally all Post Offices which issue Monev Orders in the Australian
Commonwealth and Papua.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected for sums up to £lO at any Office within the Commonwealth
1/.
Minimu
Deposit
3%
Rate of Interest on
all Deposits up to
£3OO
t&TH January, 1913
DENISON MILLER, Govbrmor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting-Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
ni *^® ss potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queensland
cot-fi .I* '* i unbounded s °ope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the prospective
settler and to the honest worker. ’ F y
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
_ T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office : 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
vbn
vnbv
THERE is no doubt about it —Brisbane
Cup Week is going to be the finest
gala the Queen City of the North has
ever known.
\ isitors will be gathered here from every
part of the Commonwealth, and the city is
making preparations to entertain them
right royally.
Are you coming? If so, arrange for the
trip at once. Any information required will
be furbished by—
C. DYSON-HOLLAND.
Sec. Q.T.C.,
BRISBANE.
■
Use WELSBACH MANTLES
mk
ff/f,
m
m
fw.
ST*
FOR EVERY KIND OF LIGHT
Our Illustration shows a new type
of Soft or Collapsible Inverted
Mantle, which entirely overcomes
transit and initial installation
breakage. Write for particulars.
WELSBACH LIGHT GO. LTD. OF AUSTRALASIA
302 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Creek Street, Brisbane. 102-4 Victoria Street, Wellington, N Z
THE KELVIN
Electricity Generating iSets
are by far the most satisfactory
for use in Lighting
Picture Shows,
Country Houses,
Hotels, etc.
They are RELIABLE, COMPACT,
EFFICIENT and INEXPENSIVE.
bvb
vbn
'/ KELVIN
GENERATING SET
Engine and Dynamo are mounted on the same base, which is on wheels and closes right up
for travelling.
The New Models have just arrived, and we shall be pleased to demonstrate them.
If you cannot call, please send for our Illustrated Booklet.
JERDAN’S.
Cinematographers and Electricians,
393 George St., Sydney.
Tailor-Made
Costumes
FOR WINTER.
Our Stock of
materials is
very compre-
hensive ; and
our T weeds
and Costume j
Cloths are in
exclusive de-
signs, We in-
vite a visit of
inspection.
Our Cutter is Mr,
F. J. Murphy.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
Tailors & Costumers,
76 MARKET STREET
SYDNEY.
vnb
vbn
I do use WRIGHT’S
Antiseptic Myrrh
TOOTH SOAP
So have Beautiful Teeth
and a Sweet Breath. Pre-
serves the enamel. Heals the
gums. Removes tartar. It’s
entirely free from acids, and
all smart dentists recommend
its constant use. Your address
... on a penny postcard, sent to
us. will bring you a trial sample free. Large box sent,
post paid, for One Shilling in stamps. Look out!
/ here are imitations. Sold by Chemists everywhere.
CHAS, WRIGHT CHEMICAL CO.
Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
Juicj lr*
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
yJsk y° ur Storekeep *T for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
fHinging for More
_ <
1.1
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years’ success . A
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
»
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Hlack,
Brown, Light or
Bolden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1L
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade. Collins St., Melbourne


Misting Friends.
Representatives of RICHARD WEBB, Wanted.
THE representatives of RICHARD
WEBB, of London, who were passen-
gers by the steamer Formosa at Albany, in
Western Australia, in or about January,
1853, will bear of something to their ad-
vantage by communicating with
STONE & BURT, Solicitors,
Hay Street, Perth (W.A.).
BOLINGBROKE, EDWARD, son of Charles John
Bolingbroke, and nephew of Lewis Boling-broke,
deceased, or anyone acquainted with his whereabouts,
please communicate with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
INFORMATION is required of THOM
CHRISTIAN TORJUSSEN, native
of Grimstad, Norway, Good Templar Lodge,
Port Augusta, last heard of Port Augusta,
27 years ago. Mother inquiring, and will
be grateful for news.
Address: 943 S. Ainsworth Avenue,
Tacoma, Wash., U.S.
Legal Notices.
HEIRS WANTED.
AN ACTION of Multiplepoinding and
Exoneration has been raised in the.
Court of Session in Scotland (Lord Dewar,
Ordinary, Mr. Brown, Clerk) at the in
stance of Archibald Bain Birkmyre Scott.
Chartered Accountant, 116 Hope Street,
Glasgow, as Judicial Factor on the estate
of the deceased JOHN McINTYRE, Rose
Cottage, Blairlogie. Pursuer and Real Raiser,
against DUNCAN McINTYRE, Solici-
tor, Inverell, Sydney, and others Defenders.
The fund in medio in said action consists
of the estate and effects left by the said
John Mclntyre who died at Blairlogie, Scot-
land, on September 4, 1912, aged about 78
years. So far as known to the pursuer, the
said John Mclntyre died intestate, uh-
married and without brothers or sisters sur-
viving him. In said action Lord Dewar,
Ordinary, has pronounced the following
Interlocutor: —
“March 20, 1913. Lord Dewar. Act.
Maconochie. The Lord Ordinary finds the
Pursuer and Real Raiser liable only in
once and single payment of the fund in
medio, and Appoints all parties having in-
terest therein to lodge their Condescend-
ences and Claims by the 20th day of June,
1913; Further Appoints intimation of the
dependence of this action and of this
Interlocutor to be made twice at an in-
terval of a fortnight, in each of the follow-
ing newspapers, viz.: —The Times, The
Scotsman, The Glasgow Herald, The
Inverness Courier, The Stirling Ob-
server, The News of the World,
the Melbourne Argus, and the Sydney
Bulletin, for the information of all
parties having interest in the fund in
medio.
“ARTHUR DEWAR.”
Of all which notice is hereby given.
NORMAN M. MACPHERSON, S.S.C.,
2a Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Hill & Whyte, Solicitors, Stirling.
Agents for the Pursuer and Real
Raiser.
March_2o, 1913. '
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, usg the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Amusements.
HKR MAJESTY’S THEATRE. SYDNEY’.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON. Lti>.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF PUSS IN BOOTS.
NEXT SATURDAY’ NIGHT
Mr. .T. C. Williamson presents, for the First Time in
Sydney, the London, American & Continental Success,-
THE COUNT OF LUXEMBOURG.
PLANS AT PALING'S
PRICES: D.C. and O.S. (Reserved and at Door), 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Amphitheatre till thereafter, 1/-
THEATRE It O Y A E. S Y D N EV.
1 Lessee: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
GRAND SHAKSPEARIAN SEASON.
OSCAR ASCUE and LILY BRAYTON
ANTONY & CLEOPATRA.
OSCAR ASCHE as MARK ANTONY.
LILY BRAYTON as CLEOPATRA.
Prices : D.C. & O.S. (Reserved), 7/6 ; ar Poors, ('</• ; Stalls,
4/-; Gallery to 7.30,2/-; thereafter. 1/- Plans at Palirig's.
D El, I’ HI Tlt EAT It E, SYI)N E Y.
Direction and Manasrement. Gkoucik Maiii.ow. j/rn.
EVERY EVENING.
The Most Remarkable, Novel, Thrilling and Sensational
Drama of the Age.
THE COWBOY AND THE SQUAW.
Magirfic-ntly Staged and Brilliantly Interpreted by
GEDR4E MARLOW S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.
POPULAR rRTCES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- A 1/-
T it E A T It E. Is Y D N E I .
p A I. A C E
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE BERT BAILEY FAVORITE DRAMATIC COM-
BINATION, in the Great Record-breaking Characteristic
Australian Comedy Drama,
STEELE RUDD’S
ON OUR SELECTION.
Box Plan at Paling’s POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 2/6; 1/-
Early Doors to Slaßs, 6d. extra ; to Gallery, j/- extra.
Little theatre, castlereagh st„
SYDNEY
(With the BIG Attractions).
’ EVERY EVENING, AT 8.10,
HUGH C. BUCKLER & VIOLET PAGET
present
THE SUCCESSFUL SATIRICAL GEM.
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
PRICES: Orchestral Stalls. 6/-; Stalls, 4/-; Gallery (till
7 30), 2/- ; after that hour, ]/- Box Plan at Paling’s.
National amphitheatre. Sydney.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES—WEDNESL\YS A SATURDAYS.
REKNNAN-Fm.LF.RS VAUDEVILLE CO.
THE FOUR AVOLOS, Premier Xylophonistes.
PLASTQN, Whirlwind Modeller and Sketch Artist.
7—THE MANGEANS—7, World famous Acrobats.
THE ROMAS, Lady and Gentlemen Athletes.
TOM McGUIRE, Irish Singer of Scotch Songs.
HARRY—THE QUEALYS—NELLIE.
THE ALROY GIRLS. MONTY WALKER.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
SYDNEY.
gPENCER'B LYCEUM,
EVERY EVENING.
QUO YADIS?
THE WORLD’S GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT IN
SILENT PORTRAYAL.
8000 ft.—A FULL EVENING'S ENTERTAINMENT.
8 V D N E ?i
T H
OLYMPIA,
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
"BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plan at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
Alhambra theatre, sydney.
HAYMARKET VAUDEVILLE HOUSE.
Direction JOS. L. GOODMAN.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
Children Half-price to all parts.
STAR VAUDEVILLE & MINSTRELS.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY SATURDAY MATINEE.
PRICES : 1/fi, 1/- & (id. ; Saturdays, 2/-, 1/6, 1/-'
Doors, 7.15 ; Overture, 8.
■ " ""7 1
IMPERIAL ROLLER RIN K,
Foot of William Street.
A REFINED RINKING RENDEZVOUS
for
FASTIDIOUS PEOPLE.
NOW OPEN. THREE SESSIONS PER DAY.
JAMES C. BENDRODT,
General Manager.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI TIIEATR E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSII.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
OAPT. TIEBORS’ 7 EDUCATED SEALS & SEA LIONS.
O HANA SAN & CO., in “ A Vision of Japan.”
HANNA—THE DE BRUNS- BERT, Novelty Dancing.
OSBORN & BROOKE-S, Musical Comedy Duo.
KITTY DALE. CLARENCE SISTERS & BROTHER.
ALBERTO MARINI. 7
GEORGE WHITEHEAD. SYDNEY BACH.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 6/-, 4/- and 1/-
P E R A HOUSE. M E L B O U K N E.
Personal Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE & MISS MARGARET
DALE OWEN, the Great American Comedy Stars.
MADGE TEMPLE, the Fashion-plate of Vaudeville.
CUMMIN & SEAHAM, Comedians and Acrobats.
WILL WHITBURN, Australia’s Quaint Comedian.
H. SCOTT JjESLIE, in Song, Sketch and Story.
MONS. REYNARD, Dramatic Barir.one, assisted by
MDLLE. ROSELLA.
CASSIE WALMER, Everybody’s Favorite.
Plan at Allan’s. xaTPRICES —45., 35., 25., Is.
|y|ELBOURNE’S NEW CONCERT HALL.
THE AUDITORIUM;
Now nearing completion, has been erected at a cost
of over £40,000, and will be the first Concert Hall
proper in Australia.
Seating accommodation —2400.
Comfortable tip-up chairs in Stalls.
Handsome Lounge Seats in Balcony.
Comfortable Gallery seating throughout.
The Auditorium is equipped with heating and cooling
apparatus, which cost over £3OOO, by which the
atmosphere in winter and summer will be kept to an
average temperature of 65 degrees.
Ample provision has been made for spacious en-
trances, exits, crush rooms, etc., all of which
will be heated in winter.
The Auditorium is suitable ; for Concerts of all
descriptions—Lectures, Meetings, Shows, Bazaars —
and other classes of amusements.
For vacant dates apply to
J. & N. TAIT, The Auditorium, Collins Street.
•J-HE GREAT MUSICAL EVENT OF 1913.
MADAME
CLARA BUT JR
And MR.
KENNERLEY RUI^EORD
Open J. & N. Tait’s New Concert’Hall,
THE AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE,
SATURDAY, MAY 17,
The Season extends to
TUESDAY, MAY 20 SATURDAY, MAY 24
THURSDAY, MAY 22. TUESDAY, MAY 27
BOX PLANS NOW OPEN AT ALLAN’S.
PRICES: Reserved Stalls and Balcony, 10/6 (with a
special Vice-Regal Reserve for the'Opening Night of £1 Is.)
Unreserved Seats, 5/- and 3/-
Full Particulars from J. & N. TAIT, Collins Street.
RINCESS’S XIIEAT HE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee: GEO. MARLOW LTD.
Direction ALLAN HAMILTON.
P
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) & TO-MORROW (FRIDAY),
MAY 15 and 16.
THE SECOND MRS. TANQUERAY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 17.
A VILLAGE PRIsEST.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
EH MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 17.
Return of the
ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Successful Gaiety Production,
TIIE SUNSHINE GIRL.
Plan at Allan’s. Reserved Seats & Dress Circle, 6/-
Balcony and Stalls. 4/- ; Pit and Gallery, 2/-
H E A T R E R O Y A L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. l.Tii.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 17.
FIRST PRODUCTION IN AUSTRALIA
of the Great American Dramatic Success,
W ITHI N TII I? LA W.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, .4/-. Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
THK KING’S THEATRE. -MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee and Manager: William Andruson.
* EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of W. Anderson's Dramatic Organisation
in
The Adaptation of Vic oria Cross’s Novel,
LIFE’S SHOP WINDOW.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
“IfoFsALE-RDLLER SKATED
To WHOLESALE DEALERS, RINK PROPRIETORS
and the TRADE.
1913 Winslow’s New Production Ball-bearing
“Double Bar” Extension Skates. These are an estab-
lished mechanical success. Absolutely Rigid through-
out, extra extension to a degree never before attained.
Can be adjusted to fit child or adult. Steel or
Fibre Rolls.
S. HOFFNUNC 8 CO., Ltd., City.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOU BNE,
Lessees: Oriental Amusement Co. Ltd. of U.S.A.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
THE TALK OF MELBOURNE.
AMERICAN
MUSICAL BURLESQUE COMPANY. j
A Complete American Company of 40 Artists,
in the New Musical Burlesque,
THE SPECUL A T O R S.
ONE CONTINUOUS SCREAM.
|CE SKAT IN G. ICE SKATING.
THE GLACIAIUU M,
MELBOURNE.
EVERY AFTERNOON : ADMISSION 2/-
EVERY EVENING: ADMISSION 1/-
LYKI.C THEATRE, Chapel St., Trahran, Vic.
EVERY NIGHT at 8. MATINEE, SATURDAY,
at 2.30.
THE FAMOUS “NON-FLICKER”
PHOTOPLAYS
on the Marvellous “Mack Screen, together with the
Superb LYRIC ORCHESTRA. 6d. to 2s. Plans at
Allan's. C. M. Read's and the Lyric Theatre Caf6.
IKKCTION AMALGAMATED PICTURES
LTD.
Melbourne’s Latest and Finest Picture Palace.
THE MAJI STIC THEATRE.
FLINDERS STREET, opp. Princes Bridge Station.
Continuous Matinees Daily from 12 to 6 o'clock.
3d., 6d. and 1/-
Evening Prices; 2/-, l/i>. 1/- and 6d. Plan at Allan s.
L V M P I A. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
STEJSCLII’vS PICTURES. “
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
\AI E S T’S P A LAC E. MELBO U R N E.
™ best WEST’S PICTURES,,,,.; H est
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. Wrst.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pjctouiai. Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be
seen at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change
every week. Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of which
we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
Pocket Edition of the
NEW RULES OF RACING.
JUST PUBLISHED.
Printed in two colors, bound in limp roan, gilt
edges; 4in. by 2lin. Price, 1/6, including Postage,
H. BYRON MOORE.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
Applications for the position of
Starter will be received by the Secre-
tary till noon of the 11th of June next.
Salary, £250 per annum. Starter to find his
own horse.
H. BYRON MOORE,
Secretary.
LOUIS KAUFFMANN CIUAPc
vnb
bvn
i . P«1100
Imperial* . as,
idylls. . 37 ; 6
Diademas . 22/6
l>ran Bouquets 20/6
Infantas . 17/6
Levucas - 15/6
Remit amount with
orde, deU f
Paid tn' a "
paid, to any part of
TURNKy, II ' MOSET Rl '-
EJE not
BixCi^: k ‘ ng fiV6 “
Illustrated descriptive booklet mailed to any addres. ™ ,
cation. Only address on »WU-
-34 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
THE MAGIC FLUTE
HUMAN ATONE
Wonderfully Sweet-Toned and Musical.
16
each
ANYONE CAN PLAY IT
No Knowledge of Music
v Needed
SMALL ENOUGH TO CARRY IN
THE POCKRT
Loud Enough to Lead
the Band
Only 1/6 each,
Carriage Paid
'THE Maple Flute is *ll absolutely new style of mnsieal m-
A st.rument; nothing like it has erer been seen. It ia mad*
entirely of nickel-pitted metal, end it li strong and durable
It wli n-rer wear out or get. ont of order The meet %x.
tr »ordin*ry im tattoos of bird-calls and warblln?* «* n
pandit ed, and it cannot be excelled for teaching a parrot to
whistle You can play any thne you know after a little
pra<*ti«e, and the tone is rerr musical,and flute-tike. It Is cap.
ib“ of the most charming modulations more cloecly re-
eemblinp the legato of a rtOJin than is possible on any ieyM
instrument, and the most popular melody or the most elabo-
rate operatic air can he played, eitKer »ra solo or accompanied
in a manner that would be enthusiastically applauded
on a concert platform. Anyone can play the Flute,
and the perfo-r-mer with thejrrne * gtft of music” will And it
with a very little practice, the most easily controlled sound
producer it is possible to imagine Each Magic Flute is
vac **«l in a box with full instructions, and the price is only
is. 6d.. indnd'ng carriage to any address. We will send
our 140-page Illustrated Catalopne with eaeh order, and, if you
mention this paver when ordering, yon may hare a Clerer
Fn*r.;e without charre, with the offer of another Fouls if you
can sol re ;he first one. Obtainable Only from
The Union IVlfg. A Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
ITHE FLUTA ACCORDEONI
Price
6/-
Carriage
Paid.
m
A New Musical Instrument that ANYONE CAN PLAY
without knowing anything about music. The Book en-
ables you to PLAY TUNES WITH FULL HARMONY,
tenor and bass, just LIKE A BAND, beautiful tones, loud
and clear There is no trouble with bellows as witb aa
ordinary accordeon. Nothing to get out of order The
reeds are unaffected by moisture of the breath and the case
is very strong, practically unbreakable. Length 13 inches
Price 8/- complete with Bbok of Popular Tunes, no notes.!
just figures, that anyone can play, packed in a nice W
and we pay carriage anywhere. Obtainable only from
The UNION Co.. 299 Elizabeth Slrctt. Melbourne.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
murphy’s Tile pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3 - Per Box, Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
What
You Want is Lessons in Elocution.
ELOCUTION BY POST.
“One of the strangle mysteries of life is that those who have something.' to
say worth hearing: do not take the slightest trouble to learn how to make it
properly heard.’'-7WiLLiAM Ewart Gladstonk.
The Distinguished Actor
Walter Bentley
——— of World-Wide Fame 1
Teaches by Post or by Private Lessons.
The Stage a Speciality. Many Engagements Made. Good Speaking a Commercial Asset.
All farther information and arrangement of time of
Private Tuition and Fees can be ascertained on
application at the College or by letter.
vnbvb
301 A PITT STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
n
Why be satisfied with a few bristles on your upper lip, when by using
CAPILLARINE
you can grow a handsome moustache? has proved a success wit
hundreds of men during the past 30 years. It will not fail with >ou.
Order it to-day.
D,;,„ c tin D a -4. The C. &A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night
PriCC 10 0 JAR, Post Free, shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Ire
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654. George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
vnbnb
BAMCFQASS
' VJATERPROOf O'COATS
The“MAWSGN’’Model
Cut, modelled, and made
with as much care as a
high-priced suit. At all
Drapers and Storekeepers
nvb
bv
BABNETGIfiS
WATERPROOF GARMENTS
The “DENMAN" Model
Well-fittin?, airy, free,
comfortable a pleasure to
wear. Your Draper will
show you sample*.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO LTD-
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia,
289-93 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; All States and


The Large Face Gear
on Le Blond Single Pulley Drive Millers
Makes Bigger Cuts Possible.
SB:
*
-
V .
m * -***
The face gear is the
largest used ou any
All-Geared Miller
built.
This means smoother
cutter rotation and
longer life to the cut-
ter.
The face gear is as
large as the largest
cutter the machine
will swing. This
means full power de-
livered to the cutter,
regardless of its diame-
ter.
And the operator does
not step out of a two-
foot circle to secure
full mechanical con-
trol ; no other Miller
has this feature.
The Le Blond Milling Machine will produce accurately milled surfaces more rapidly
than any other Miller, because the operator has full control of the machine without
leaving his position, and they are sufficiently rigid to stand up under the heaviest cuts.
He can secure. the full-speed range, any feed variation, engage or reverse any feed,
and use the quick return to table without moving out of a two-foot circle.
THIS CAN ONLY BE DONE ON A LE BLOND MILLER.
WE CARRY STOCKS.
LET THAT SINK IN.
BENSON BROTHERS
(Sole Agents for
Australasia.),
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
51-53 DRUITT ST., SYDNEY. 60 QUEEN ST., HELBOURNE.
Preeminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'O'U’l'S
A GREAT JIUSICAL INNOVATION.
. , _ UTWCHAHCEABIS
|#j 1 PARTS
(Sand
ALBERT’S SYSTEM
MA "t> fUEO
Reeos
Two more (new) “Boomerang”
Mouth Organ Types, the “ Boom-
erang Grand ” (48 Reeds), Price
6/6 (New); the “Miniature
Grand ” (24 Reeds), Price 3/6 (New)
—Post Free to any address.
These two new types possess already the great superiority of the “Boomerang” Mouth Organ
tonality, but being tuned to the grand concert pitch, and provided with extra reeds, they at
once raise their bewitching harmony above the best reed-combination. The sweetness and body
of resonance emanating from the “BOOMERANG GRAND” can only be equalled by the tuneful
combination of the Harp and Flute. Try one, and the “BOOMERANG GRAND” will become your
inseparable companion. Try the G/G one for preference.
wholesale and Retail from J. ALBERT & SON, 137 King Street, Sydney.
(Remit by Australian or N.Z. Postage Stamps.) (
to
Aa36
The most Healthy, the most Comfortable.
66
The
wool
Underwear.
careful selection of pure Australasian
its careful cleansing, and its skilful
manufacture into shapely, well-fitting garments,
make Jason the most healthy and the most comfortable body-
wear you can buy.
And the natural fleecmess of the fibre is retained by the Jason
process so that it is like silk in wear. The name Jason is
stamped on every garment to safeguard you against imitations.
The makers will readily replace any garment that shrinks.
Jaaon Underwear is made in all styles and prices for men, ladies & children.
If your dealer does not stock it insist uPon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty write—
JASON HOSIERY Co., Leicester, England. <l>
Because the Body-Building Power of Bovril has been
proved to be from 10 to 20 times the amount taken.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Celebrated
Cascade
Ale
k
IN BULK
and
BOTTLED.
Cjr,;«
Im
I
c
5
mi
MT
CALL
FOR IT
on ALL
Occasions.
“The World-wide Whiskey.’
Burke’s
WHISKEY
A WhisKey of unique value,
mellow, light and digestive.
★ ★ ★
IRISH
E. & J. BURKE, Ltd.
(Paid-up Capital, £1,100,000.
Established 1849), are by
far the largest Shippers of
Bottled Whiskey from Dublin.
BUILT TO BEAT THE BAND
q THE BESSES O’
THE BARN have
gone but the Besses o’
the Pocket have come
to stay.
&
q The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack
Mouth
Organs
W MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional 40 Reeds, 3 - Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds,. . . 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds, . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds, . . . 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds. . . . 6d
: SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents :
Allan & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Adelaide
Bendgo A Geelong
T NSULATE your foundation against the dampness of the soil by coating
the walls and floors with Congo Damp Course. This dense, waterproof
fabric can be buried in wet ground without the slightest danger of deteriora-
tion. It will keep the walls perfectly dry and will also repel vermin, ants, etc.
Any man can apply it properly. It is made in seven different widths to suit
all sorts of conditions. Sample on request.
Australian Agents:—Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney; Noyes Bros. (Melbourne),
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Brabant & Co., Brisbane; Walter Reid & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton;
Elder Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide; Millars’ Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth; William
Hart & Sons, Launceston ; T. A. Tabart, Jnr., Hobart.
" n n II JL-
Damp Course
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
Flonthly, <3cJ.


TOP OF BABY’S HEAD
All Her Hair Began to Fall Off,
Made Child Cross and Irritable,
Front of Head Mass of White
Sores, Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment, Cure Permanent,
Warren St., Lily Estate, Toowoomba,
Q’land. —"When my baby girl was three
months old all her hair began to fall off and
to my horror I found the top part of the
head covered with a dry scurf or dandruff
just like white scabs. Baby was too young
to scratch it, but it made her very cross and
irritable, and after bathing it and drying it
with the towel it used to often bleed.
“ My neighbour told me to rub fresh but-
ter on it at night but this brought no relief
and several other friends told me to put
salad oil and another castor oil. I used all
these together with Soap, and several other
kinds of skin soap but nothing seemed to
take the scabs off permanently, it would fall
off only to come back thicker than ever, and
when the hair began to grow at the back the
front was just a mass of white sores.
"I then heard of the wonderful results
which were being obtained from using Cuti-
cura Soap and Cuticura Ointment so decided
to try them and found to my great joy that
the white scabs began to come off quite
easily and after using three cakes of Cuti-
cura Soap and one small tin of Ointment my
baby is quite cured, and I am sure the cure
is permanent, and now my baby at one year
and six months has got a lovely head of hair,
after suffering twelve months with this
dreadful disease.” (Signed) Mrs. A. P. Han-
son, Nov. 10, 1911.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold
throughout the world. A single set is often
sufficient. For sample of each with 32-page
Skin Book, post-free, address R. Towns &
Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Violent Cathartics
Injure Health
Don’t take purgatives —their harsh action
is liable to injure the bowels. Why not use
CARTER’S LITTLE OVER
PILLS, a purely vegetable
remedy that has been
successfully used by
millions for half-a-
century. Acts
gently but surely
and not only,
quickly
lieves but "
for ever
vbn
Carters
■ITTLE *
IVER
PILLS
ends the misery of constipation. Use them for dizzi-
ness, indigestion, sick headache and all liver troubles.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price
The
GENUINE
must bear
Signature
vnb
9
Her Youth
rB.AtLENJ
Mexican
WALNUT a TAIN
for Grey Hair
IS THE
only permanent and really satisfactory
ONE SOLUTION Hair Stain
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
The Best Bush Doctor of All!
If you’ve got a poisoned hand, a sore leg, an abscess,
a boil, a running sore, Eczema in any form, Barcoo
ro t or if you’ve a wound that won’t heal or a
jagged cut, all you need
have to cure it is a tin of
Wilkinson’s
Eclectric Ointment.
Price 116, Posted 1/9. J WILKINSON, Chemist, v
K.E.8., Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
ASTHMA CURE
GRINIAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonsConghs,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMATJLT & Co*s INDIAN CIGAR*
JSTTES. Bold, by all Chemitts.
mHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
X HAND, the National Monthly. 1 roe -a-
HOWTO
GROW HAIR
A Simple, Safe and Reliable Way that Produces Surprising Results
NEW PREPARATION CAUSES BIG STIR AMONG HAIR specialists.
The above clearlv shows Results from a Short Course of my True Hair-Qrowing Compound.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff,
baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well the
humiliation that they cause. There is no need, how-
ever, of such conditions. These troubles cab be
quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
I am not an advertising quack, but am a business
man. My hair began to grow thin about the time
I reached the age of thirty. When I had reached the
age of thirty-five the top of my head was quite bald.
I had considerable pride, and sought for something
to cause renewed growth. I invested in every pre-
paration that I could see or hear of, and here let me
say that not only did I try all the English so-called
restorers, but those of Continental Europe. I also
visited specialists. My experimenting cost me many
sovereigns and considerable time —yet the hairs came
not. I had given up the idea of ever growing hair
again. One afternoon, while enjoying a brief busi-
ness respite by an Alpine trip, I fell in with an old
collegiate chemist, whose hair was particularly plen-
tiful. I jokingly remarked that I wished he Could
spare some of his hair for my benefit. This lead him
to tell me that he understood the human hair aS well
as a good dentist understands teeth. He wrote out a
formula, and suggested that I have a quantity of the
Compound prepared. I did this a few days later. |
Was astonished to see the hair coming forth after
several applications, and within six weeks my head
was covered by a firm, yet soft, black growth of hair.
Since then the hair on my head has been as luxuriant
as when in my school days. Having arranged for
the legal right to do so, I have for some time been
privately selling this marvellous hair-growing com-
pound. I hold over one thousand letters from people
who have actually grown new hair through the
medium of my true hair grower. I do not pretend
to say it is the only hair grower in the world—l am
not interested in decrying others —but I do assert
that it is the most reliable, and in the end by far the
cheapest.
Baldness, Dandruff, Itching, etc.,
Free Trial Coupon.
Cut out this Coupon and send with 3 stamps
to cover postage, etc., and I will immediately
host a large trial box of my True Hair Grower.
John Craven Burleigh, Dept. 7, 107 Castlereagli
Street. Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
tfltlerQdf 1 *
1/I}, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
Checks Fever'
ishness, end
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
vbn
"■ “SWAN SAFETY'
Can’t Leak)
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE^S Buildings, 255 a George
i >\
T IC2 NZ
Benger's is the most easily
digested of all foods.
It is appetising and delicious, and
is enjoyed and assimilated when other
foods cause pain and distress.
vnb
for Infants, Invalids, and the Aged, enjoys the
universal recommendation of Medical men in all
cases of severe or temporary illness, and aunng
convalescence.
Food
Post free—to all who have the care of Infants and Invalids, a 48’P 3 ?*
Booklet, *' Bender’s Food and How to Use It.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., Otter Work*, MANCHESTER, E
117, PITT STREET, STDNEY, N.B.W.
Bender's Food is s old in tins bv Drxijg'.’is'** etc., every
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Windsail”: The Navigation Department recently
got busy in Sydney Harbor and improved the old
fixed light on Pinchgut; also, an occulting light
was fixed on Nobby’s, at Newcastle. But further
along the coast, the old lamp on the pub verandah
at Bellinger Heads still lends its feeble aid to the
mariner picking his way along the coast on a thick
night, towards the gap in the beach which forms the
entrance. If the hand of the prohibitionist falls
on that pub, and dowses its light before the Naviga-
tion Department provides one of its own, there’ll be
a score of cursing skippers and a wreck or two for
certain.
The recent riot over the price of milk. in Mel-
bourne is one of those things which suggests there
should be some authority to fix prices. During the
dry spell at the beginning of the year the Victorian
dairy farmers raised the price from lOd. to Is. per
gallon to the middlemen. The middlemen raised
their price by 5d., and not only got back their 2d.
per gallon but made 3d. on the transaction. Then
the dry spell passed, food became plentiful, and the
dairy farmers knocked off their increase, bringing the
price to the original figure. The retailers didn’t
knock off worth a cent, and as long as the dishon-
orable understanding among themselves is adhered
to, the oublic is helpless and has to submit to
what looks like clean-shaved robbery. No doubt the
Melbourne milk retailers are bitterly opposed to the
carrying of the Referendum.
[C. A. Jeffries, The Bulletin Office, Sydney.]
“Taff”: “Flam” is right (B. 3/4/’l3). Weighing
packages on despatch and again on receipt will not
stop cargo-pillaging. The pillagers know too much.
I once worked for a firm of spirit merchants
who tried examining one or two cases of
spirits out of each consignment, and accepting the
balance of the shipment if the weights corresponded
with those of the examined packages. It was a dead
failure. We started opening every case. After about
three tries we struck a case of brandy contain-
ing only three bottles of spirit, the other nine
having had the contents abstracted and replaced with
bilge water. So it was evident that someone had
celebrated his birthday at our expense, and though we
would gladly have hanged that person by the neck to
a rum shrub until he was dead, all our research failed
to locate him.
There is still some go-aheadness in Melbourne.
The other day a peanut merchant, wearing the start-
ling name of Charles Smith, ran his goods and
emporium down to the chief football match per
motor, and thus established himself as the pioneer
member of the Australian Peanut Automobile Club.
Smith pushed a hand-barrow for nine years, and
reckons his tricycle will earn in nine months or
thereabouts the £l3O it cost.
* * * * *
“Gordon G.”: A snort of scornful indignation has
disturbed the vicinity of Tory legal cliques in Vic-
toria concerning a recent statute which enables
managing clerks (subject to qualifications) to be
admitted to the Gent. One fold. Provided these
clerks can show, inter alia, that they have served
as managing clerks for 10 years continuously (which,
of course, connotes about 17 years’ legal experi-
ence), and that their characters are unblemished,
the path is comparatively easy. The Full Court
graciously allows them to enter the horsehair pro-
fession, subject to the passing of certain examina-
tions prescribed by the Melbourne University. So
far, about 60 applicants have managed to pull
through, and the rush will probably go on undimin-
ished until three figures are reached. The concession
granted to these “intruders” amounts to this: They
have no 40-guinea fee to dole out on applying for a
horse tail, they are permitted to pass over the
matric exam, or its present equivalent, and they
have seven law subjects to grapple with in lieu of
the present articled law clerk’s nine. It is bruited
that the original idea of the Bill, which, by the
way, was introduced and steered through by Orange-
man Robinson Snowball, was to let in five or six iso-
lated individuals who lacked nothing except the
schoolboy’s capacity for cramming, but apparently
the nunierositv of this type of person was greatly
miscalculated.' Anyhow, there is considerable dis-
turbance in the industrial Union of Upholstererd
Sharks, and the new members are being greeted with
snarls of “contamination,” “upstarts” and “lowerin’
the standard and dignity,” and other high-toned
Tory reproofs.
“Sans Raneune” : Trotter, in “Fanny’s First
Play”—the Englishman who spends halt ni“ r”ne
in Paris —pronounced the word “cliche” on Monday
night as though it had had no accent. I don’t
know if Randolph Bedford, who is Trotter here, has
any kick to deliver at this, but sure it is that if A.
B. Walklev, of the Times (the original Trotter)
heard about it he would dash his hat to pieces w'th
sheer fury.
THE SONG OF A HUNDRED DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ship Blank, from Sydney—loo days.”
—London news item.
Hundred days O! Hundred days! Half the world
behind us!
Hark, the Thames a-sneaking round her dirty
yellow sides.
London Town O ! Mother town, take us as you find
us,
Who come to you with melody and tune of many
tides !
Little songs of Sydney water
Lapping round the busy quays;
Chuckling at the noisy forefoot,
As we sought the open seas.
Deeper tones of threshing canvas,
Where the hard nor’-easter hums ;
Iron shoulders to the “grounders”
With the roll of muffled drums!
Or calm sea! Dark sea! Hardly making steerage
way,
The white stars in the water overside;
With a sad t’gallant royal sighing somewhere up
aloft,
And a swaying, squeaking yardarm spreading wide.
Till a whisper came from Westward, like the echo
of a tune,
And from the dark a tautened halliard whined.
Then we squared away for London Town, and all
that London meant,
With a silver sabre trailing out behind!
Through the muttering Atlantic
Where the winter gales are born,
Driving with a paean of glory
Through the darkness at the Horn,
We have heard the music rising
From the crash of drunken spars,
As each wide-swinging masthead
Ran the gauntlet of the stars!
High sea —strong sea! Stabbing! Racking through
it!
Ever roaring northward, taut and fast!
Carrying on like thunder, with the weather earring
playing
Like a crazy kettle-drum within the blast!
On the deck a welt of water, and the leeward scup-
pers under,
With the white hounds yelping madly round the
rail,
’Mid ocean spume and spindrift, we danced the
Devil’s measure
To the ringing, reckless music of the gale!
London lights ! O yellow lights! Here at last you
find us,
Prodigals returning from the deep and trackless
ways,
This is home for sailor-men, you would fain remind
us,
Shouting out a welcome through your dear old
dirty haze !
N.S.W.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf, or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain oif them —the
strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What a
relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest I’ara rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural drum.
He ng of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt the ear.
It fits the orifice of the ear
with precision and comfort.
The division that runs
across the mouth is to al-
low the removal and inser-
tion of the Ear-Drum, and
to brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the h e a r i ng-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-dav. But
of you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
D.Tv-r 1 n! y ° U J an be , cu - e u- too ‘ You '"»v weai
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them oul
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (w<
have special sizes for children from six to twelve)
Even a child can insert and remove them without th(
least danger.
The Price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s singk
visit). I his includes a pair of drums (they are onl\
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also ar
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur
chase a single drum at any time for' Bs., but thf
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Dc
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order form below, and the Outfit will be sent vot
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVET.TY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
220 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
kink Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
e r
M.B.FOSTERS
BUGLE
If
fan
BRAND
CELEBRATED FOR ITS
CHAMPAGNE.
CONDITION and
BRILLIANCY.
Hlfi
Ro
ASTHMA
o m
?
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
Beaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received from Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
A3TBMA
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma.
Hay h ever, Rose Cold, or
ordinary Cough.
in Tats *y ad Chemists and Stares
throughout Australasia.
TIIE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAM). The National .Monthly. Price, 6d.
LETTERS COPIED
ZANETIC
vnb
J-aoifu
moiuim
aad 03
HOUJI
bvn
WHILE WRITING (IN INK)
by Übing your own Letter Paper,
Invoices, etc., with this Copying-
book. You simply insert your
Letter paperfas illustrated)then
write: and the act of writing pro-
duces a perfect letter and a per-
fect copy in the book. There is
no sign of your having taken a
copy : no perforated edge.
book N.S.C./200 copies either
200 letters size 10 by 8 in., or 4oo
size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C 400 copies 400 or 800 re-
spectively, price 5/- post free,
cash with order. Special Dainty
Octavo Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double capacity
for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zanetic Ink Paper which
makes the copy, tree, if stamped addressed envelope sent to
8.8. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND.
Australian
Established lS4t>.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox,
~r' s . c l'> 1 A,ex - MacOormick, E-q .M. D. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE : 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835 )
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund ( £500,000 is invested in 2i per cent. Consols, the remainder
being used in the business of the bank) . . . . . . . . 2,010,000
Reserve Liability of the Proprietors under the Charter .. . . .. 1,600,000
£5,210,000
SEVENTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE
HANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
With the Accounts for the Half-year to 14th October, 1912.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, 3rd April, 1913.
•
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 14th October last, with the Profit
Account for the Half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and
Colonial rates and taxes, and for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the Half-year amounted to
£216,303/16/3.
To this sum must be added £18,244/13/2 brought forward from the previous Half-year, making a
total of £234,548/9/5, out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the Half-year at the rate
of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2/16/- per share, and a bonus at the rate of 3 per cent, per annum,
or 12/- per share, together £3/8/- per share, free of income tax.
The dividend and bonus will absorb £136,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £50,000
to the Reserve Fund, and £20,000 in reduction of the cost of bank premises. There will then remain
£28,548/9/5 to be carried forward to the next account.
The dividend and bonus will be payable, in London and in the Colonies, on the 4th April.
Since the date of the last report, a resolution of the Court of Directors that the capital of the Bank be
increased by £400,000, by the issue of 10,000 new shares of £4O each, has been unanimously assented to
by the proprietors. When the new shares are fully paid up, the capital of the bank will be £2,000,000.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: —The Rt. Hon. the Earl of Lichfield, Sir E. Montague Nelson,
K.C.M.G., and the Rt. Hon. Sir Andrew Scoble, K.C. 5.1., K.C., who, being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Wei ton, Jones and Co., also offer themselves for re-election.
The branch at Wallsend, New South Wales, has been closed.
GEORGE HAMILTON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 25th March, 1913.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 15, 1912, to OCTOBER 14, 1912.
Undivided profit, April 15, 1912 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £154,244 13 2
Less dividend and bonus, October 4, 1912 .. . . .. . . .. .. 136,000 0 0
£18,244 13 2
Profit for the Half-year to October 14, 1912, after deducting rebate
on bills current at balance date ( £6,059/3/8), and making pro-
vision for all bad and doubtful debts . . . . .. . . £392,372 4 2
Less: —
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial —
Salaries and allowances to the Colonial staff, in- •
eluding the superintendent’s department, and
205 branches and agencies . . . . £108,460 4 10
General expenses, including rent, repairs,
stationery, travelling, etc. .. .. 22,534 5 11
London —
Salaries .. .. .. .. .. 10,218 13 4
General expenses .. .. .. . . 3,106 14 7
11. Rates and Taxes —
Colonial, £16,605/6/11 ; London,
£144,319 18
£15,143/2/4 31,748 9
8
3
176,068 711 216.303 16 3 j
Total amount of unappropriated profit .. .. . . .. . . • • • • £234,548 9 5
From which deduct —
For transfer to Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. £50,000 0 0
For reduction in cost of bank premises . .. .. • • 20,000 0 0 70,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend .. .. .. •• •• •• •• £164.548 9 5
BALANCE SHEET, OCTOBER 14, 1912
Dr. LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. £184,056 0 0
Deposits . . . . . . • • 17,906,492 17 2
Bills payable, and other liabili-
ties 2,722,181 12 9
£20,812,730 9 11
Capital ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,010,000 0 0
Profit account,
undivided
balance .. 164,548 9 5
3,774,548 9 5
£24,587,278 19 4
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, Government
notes, and cash balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government securities
India and Colonial Governments
securities and other invest-
ments
Bills receivable, advances on se-
curities, and other assets
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London . .
Cr.
£24,587,278 19 4
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R- W. JEANS, General Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg- to report that, in
our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair Balance-Sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments are valued at
market prices or under.
London, 19th March, 1913.
WELTON, JONES and Co., Auditors.
' .
►T*
li
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FountaifiPen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writing a positive
pleasure. Nib just suited
to your hand, a steady,
sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing,
no leaking, no splutter-
ing, no faltering. Lasts
a lifetime ; every pen
guaranteed.
In 4 types —
Regular and Self-Filling, 12/6 and
upwards; Safety and Pump-
Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationtrs and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD.,
Koh-i -noor House, London, England*
Australia—3so, George Street, Sydney.
vnbv
SPENCER’S MILD INDIAN CIGARS.
SPECIALLY SELECTED WHOLE LEAF—No Inferior Fillings.
If not obtainable from your dealer, refer
Sample Boxes of 50, 15/-
PARTRIDGE ABERCROMBY LTD.,
York Chambers, Market Street, Sydney.
LOFTUS MORAN,
231 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE COMPLETE
WORKS Of GUY
De MAUPASSANT.
Issued to Subscribers only
by
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING
CO. Pty., Ltd.,
Publishers of the Complete Works
of Shakspeare, Balzac, Dickens,
Scott, Thackeray, etc.
The Standard Publishing Co. are
glad to be able to announce the issue
to subscribers of a complete and admir-
able translation of the entire Works of
Guy de Maupassant, the Greatest Short-
story writer in all Literature.
IN THE FIRST FIVE VOLUMES
the author pictures with marvellous
skill the virile novelty of country
scenes, and the comedy and tragedy
underlying the whirl of Parisian Life
in fashionable drawing-rooms, in Stu-
dios of Art, in Greenrooms of Opera
and Theatre, and in the Quartier Latin
of students and grisettes.
THE SECOND SECTION OF FIVE
VOLUMES contains the Romances
which caused Tolstoi to hail De Mau-
passant as the supreme Realist and
Romance Writer of his Century. Here
are found the daring explorations of
his subtly intelligent mind into the
emotions of the heart of womankind.
THE THIRD SECTION OF FIVE
VOLUMES embraces the Dramas,
Poems and Travels, the last-named
sparkling with gems of description—of
Spanish, Italian, Corsican and Oriental
life.
THE FOURTH SECTION contains
stories belonging to every phase of life.
Lore and laughter, tragedy and tears
run side by side in these two volumes,
the last of the series.
There are 30 Illustrations through-
out the set, from original drawings by
noted French and American artists. A
number were executed by De Maupas-
sant’s friends —who declined compensa-
tion —contending that it was an honor
for them to show their admiration in
this way for his works.
The printing has been done from ori-
ginal type and not from plates. A new
font of French Elzevir type, bold and
elegant in design and easy to read, was
specially cast for and used in this edi-
tion. There are good margins to every
page. The books are handsomely bound
in Blue Vellum Cloth, with distinctive
brown and gold title labels.
'Htrvo €cr
We have prepared an illustrated prospectus
of our Standard Edition of De Maupassant.
This will be sent Post Free to all responsible
inquirers. The booklet describes the edition
in full detail, and gives particulars of our
special plan, by which the whole 17 volumes
are sent, carriage paid, for a first payment of
TEN SHILLINGS, the balance being payable
by easy instalments. This booklet will be
sent to all book-lovers and literary students
who use the form underneath.
couftn,
To THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY.,
LTD., 100 Flinders Street, Melbourne; or,
228 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free of charge, and „ without
any obligation on my part, your Illustrated
Booklet of the Standard Edition of Guy Dp
Maupassant’s Works in Seventeen Volumes, to-
gether with your plan of easy instalments.
Name
(Please use this form or a postcard, mention-
The Bulletin —53.)
Address


P T O of Quality
and Stability.
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding loc k?> (.-.7111.
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol gnP’ } i'^tvERED
Guaranteed
£6 12s. 6d
"V
m
r
i
, < 5
1
A
,y#y,
wm
:
3i- '
:
IS
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about ; of 16-gauge, about 6ilb.
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
».::r.Bag3
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
" The Continental” D.B.B.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—12-gauge, about 71b.; 16-gauge, about 6;
i. Delivered, £3/15j •
„ •
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. CUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b,, patent fore-end. POST FREE, 4S
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The BEST HOUSE for all SHOOTING REQUISITES,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches:
City, Suburbs & Newcastle.
The First Successful Self-Filling Fountain Pen.
Always the Leader, Without a Peer.
nbvbn
Every shop should have our line of Automatic Self=
Filling Fountain Pens. “ The A. A. M is the one
pen for which there is no substitute. Its self-filling
feature is unique and so far superior to any other on
the market that it is the pen for all.
Fitted with i4kt. gold pens, any style or size, in plain, chased
or mottled holders, or mounted in sterling silver filigree, gold-
filled and mother of pearl —handsome and serviceable.
The cut herein also shows the newly patented “A.A.’’Clip
attached to the cap of the pen. It holds perfectly firm, and
can be attached almost instantly.
If you cannot secure “The A.A.” Automatic Self-
Filling Fountain Pen, with the “A.A.” Clip at your shop,
write for prices to
RYAN, LEWIS (SL CO. Pty., Ltd.,
521 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australasia and New Zealand of the
ARTHUR A. WATERMAN COMPANY, New York, U.S.A.
■MOT CONNECTED WITH THE L. E. WATERMAN CO. [1
10,000
UNDERWOOD
TYPEWRITERS
were purchased by
The WESTERN UNION
TELEGRAPH CO.,
U.S.A.
Stott 8 Underwood,
Underwood Typewriter
Agents,
70 PITT STREET,
.. . SYDNEY.
Box 1556 Q.P.O.
7—l
rtf' "" “
fmtfiif- ■&: /
f
K
aBfisg
' <S*
: .iV
he
i K
.01
Modern Accounting
On The
UNDERWOOD
standard Typewriter
is simplifying office methods and reducing expenses
throughout the country.
THE BILE AND CHARGE MACHINE prepares the customer's
statement, ledger account sheet and list of daily sates at
one writing.
TnE UNIT BILL AND ORDER MACHINE prepares the customer's
invoiceand the numerous departmental orders at one writing.
THE CONDENSED BILLING MACHINE prepares the customer's
invoice and sales book page at one writing.
In addition, the service includes the special check writing and
perforating machine; a card writing machine and machines
for writing extended forms, waybills, insurance policies,
balance sheets, statements and reports of all kinds.
We have experts to show customers how to use the
UNDERWOOD at its highest efficiency. You cannot get this
service on any other typewriter at any price.
“The Machine You Will Eventually Buy”
UnderwoodTypewriterCo., Inc., Underwood Bldg., New York
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED,
WOOL and PRODUCE BROKERS,
44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL STORES Harris Street, Pyrmont.
Sell on Commission only.
New and thoroughly up-to-
date Stores. Inspection
invited; Persona, / atten-
tion a feature of the
business.
A Steadily growing com-
pany.
PRODUCE STORES—Athlone Place.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, os 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
28. Adventures of a Flirt, Is 3d. Parlor Tricks and
Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, Is 2d. All The
Bulletin series. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, Is 3d.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., is. Beauty's
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
I
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Papes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER
TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
tburs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is Sd posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted, Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s fid.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, HbptaMeron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others ana
save your cash. !<F~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE QOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my ...... J
Big Illustrated Cat^ogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO PUT?.
ANY BOOK advertised elsj^vheresent
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SAPKio.ge 1
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. -Dr. Milford s M ,
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustration^r '
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Mad v, ■
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of Hi.
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, -s. bd, *
History Court of England, ls ij' ls "d.
Letter-Writer, i s .- -All-About Incubators, Is -a
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Ke>
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted.
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology '« «?
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW T ' KTO A
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohevassk sAdvkt, gONa
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget
Book, over 300 latest songs W 3d P os d
Bennarr Macfadden s Works, .at P, pOAR ,
Sappho, Is. Bread and Bakers anpbooß) .
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiffl wife 10oNbW
1s 2d posted. Fruits of Pihlosophy. Isfposß
Recitations and Readings, Is> 3fl*. targe Uk-
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. W plus leather.
abridged Dictionary, 1700 1 i and i
uound, my price, 15s post paid (why PO2 p tN , v
guineas). Bootmaking and Rbfai - > UniVER 3 * 1,
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. L cloth
Assistant and Complete Mechanic lOTfr
JSa” “ •^£f&h&SS&k


TRAINED NURSES
PRAISE BILE BEANS
‘THE STANDARD FAMILY
Next to advice direct from a physician is
that of a thoroughly qualified Nurse. Not
infrequently, indeed, based as it is on long
and careful observation of innumerable cases,
the Nurse’s advice is equally to be relied
upon. The preference of nurses of long
professional training for Bile Beans as a
medicine not only eminently preferable forj
their own private family use, but as a remedy!
singularly suited for recommendation to
their patients, serves as f urtlier proof of the
purity and efficacy of this great family
medicine.
NURSE O’REILLY,
residing at No. 1
Walker Street, Red-
fern, Sydney, says:
“Some time ago I was
prostrated with bili-
ousness, flatulency and
heartburn, and had to
keep to my room.
Bile Beans were re-
commended, so I pro-
cured a box and took
two Bile Beans at
bedtime. The effect
was really magical,
and I was soon cured.
I keep Bile Beans on
hand and recommend
them to others, and in
every instance they
irive complete satisfac-
NURSE LOMAX,
who resides at 3 Fed-
eral Street, Footscray,
Melbourne, writes:
“For fully ten years
I was a great sufferer
from biliousness. Many
were the so-called
remedies I tried with-
out result. I gave
Bile Beans a trial, and
derived such benefit
from the first few
doses that I deter-
mined to undergo a
course of this splendid
medicine. Biliousness
was soon a worry of
the past, for which I
am very thankful.’’
vbn
MEDICINE.”!
NURSE METCALFE,
of 32 Hevdon Street, Auckland, says:
“Myself and family have derived gTeat
benefits from Bile Beans. For the
past five years they have been our
family medicine. Bile Beans cured
me of biliousness and indigestion,
and, as a professional nurse, I have
recommended them to patients with
beneficial results.”
u
o
fi
cans
Beans strengthen and
tone up the system, regelate
the bowels and stimulate the
liver and stomach. Bile Ceans
are a proved remedy for con-
stipation, piles, liver trouble,
bad breath, biliousness, sick-
ness, indigestion, headache,
oss of energy, anaemia that
tired feeling, and other ail-
ments. So'd by all chemists
and stores at 1/1£ and 2/9
large box, or direct from the
Bile Bean Co., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The cjnestion of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE- YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If yon Have not, yon Have not
done yonr dnty by yonr skin and
complexion. If, on the other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on the
face, and on the skin generally—yon
HAVE nsed PEARS, yon can feel
Happy, for yon will Have done tbe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s Health and beanty. There
can be no cjnestion abont tHat.
PEARS Has been making beantifnl
complexions for nearly 120 years,
PEARS
MatcHless for the Complexion.
Sideshows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BODGER caressed his flowing beard and
gazed gloomily at the stuffed alligator
that was a neglected aquarium’s dear-
est possession. Plainly he did not find the
alligator entertaining; and the few dusty
trifles taken from the brute’s stomach after
death seemed to afford him no satisfaction
whatever. After spending five dull minutes
in meditation, he passed on to the dusty
glass case where the death adder had slept
until Death himself had called for his faith-
ful servant. The authorities carefully pre-
served the empty case as a memento of the
deceased, and Bodger was enabled to read
how dangerous it bad been in life, before he
drifted along to the untenanted seal pen. The
entire absence of seals in an aquarium struck
him as an outrage. He began to think hard
of the good shilling he bad left at the clank-
ing turnstile, anu looked round for some
ofhcial to assail.
At that moment, Fate delivered the goods
in the person of an elderly and aristocratic
attendant fitted with Dundreary whiskers.
He was garbed in a well-cut though rather
shabby uniform, but his manner was perfect,
Bodger was almost disarmed when lie minced
up and offered a programme with a bright
smile and the invitation, “Care to consult the
stars, sir? Only a shilling—most interest-
ing forecasts of your future, and so forth.”
Bodger politely accepted the programme
and waved it at the alligator: “I see you are
short of a few exhibits here.”
The attendant smirked apologetically. “Ah,
yes,” he cooed, “I’m afraid we are. The fact
is, sir, the place is not as well patronised as
it used to be, and we really haven’t the
money to spend. Nowadays we rely on the
side shows, and —well, on the couples, sir.”
“Couples!” echoed Bodger, very sternly.
The attendant dropped his voice a tone
and looked cautiously about. “Sweethearts,
sir,” he chuckled. “They come here to be out
of the way, you know —nice, quiet place, and
all that sort of thing.”
“And what about the general public?” de-
manded the relentless Bodger. “What about
men like myself, for instance, and sensible
married people with children?”
The attendant was a man of sentiment.
“Ah, sir,” he sighed. “You know the old
saying, ‘All the world loves a lover.’ ”
This was evidently thought to be a
clincher. But Bodger, in w’hose memory the
sordid turnstile still lingered, blurted indig-
nantly : “Yes, but, damme, man, all the world
doesn’t want to pay to watch them !”
The attendant blushed and lightly fingered
one of his whiskers —evidently a mannerism
of less servile days. “There are still the side
shows, sir,” he ventured with an attempt at
sly humor.
“Consulting stars and all that sort of hum-
bug is no good to me,” boomed Bodger.
The elegant attendant surrendered grace-
fully. “Ah, well! I’m afraid you’re like
myself, sir—a leetle too old for these harm-
less follies. Good afternoon, sir?” He
bustled off with a radiant smile to attend to
bis absurd duties and amuse himself by spy-
ing on couples in dusty corners.
Bodger looked after him distastefully.
“Confound these couples!” he observed
darkly, and moved on to confront a moth-
eaten eagle—stuffed, of course. *
Now, half an hour earlier, he had been
driven headlong from his boarding-house by
the sickening performances of young Lemp-
son and Miss Gummer, who seemed to think
that the announcement of their engagement
gave them sovereign rights over the sitting-
room, where the fire was. Without any
notion of where he was going, Bodger had
wandered aimlessly on until he found himself,
at two o’clock of a dull Saturday afternoon,
in the vicinity of the aquarium. A slight
shower of rain decided him to spend a shil-
ling ; with the result that he found himself
in a perfect nest of sentimentality. Feeling
thoroughly depressed, he made his way to a
dusty alcove of cork, and sat down opposite
a glass tank filled with green-blue water, in
which a pair of staring fish slid everlastingly
to and fro. Silent as a mummy, he watched
the waving fins and gills of the two foolish
things, and thought long, sad thoughts about
nothing, until he was roused by the clink of
bracelets and a happy little feminine sigh,
“Oh dear !”
Bodger’s right hand convulsively gripped
his beard, and a dark frown overliadowed
his countenance.
“Yow — dear — old — Kid!” (A slight rustle.)
Then the hidden girl spoke again. She
said, in dreamy, utterly happy tones “Isn’t
it wonderful!”
Her lover made no audible reply to this.
But Bodger knew just how he was gazing
into her shining eyes on the other side of
the partition.
“Tell me when you first started to really
care for me?”
“I always cared for you!”
“No, don't be silly! Was it the night you
nearly shot dear old Mr. Bodger?”
(Bodger started and held his breath.)
“I believe it was, you Dear Old Kid !”
(Rustling and two half-hearted slaps.)
“Wasn’t it a lucky thing the revolver
bullet only broke his basin when it went
off?”
“Crumbs, yes !”
“I'll never forget that night! I was so
frightened that I cried my eyes out when it
was all over!”
“Did you, Kid!”.... (Interval for re-
freshments.)
Then, once again: “Ob, dear! Isn’t it
wonderful?”
Bodger rose stealthily, and, with large
but cat-like tread, flitted from the accursed
place.
Reaching another unoccupied alcove, lie
deposited liimself opposite an eel-tank, and
asked himself stormily: “What the devil
can have brought them here?” To this and
other ferocious inquiries he returned him-
self most unsatisfactory answers. The soli-
tary conversation was becoming quite ani-
mated, when he noticed two prying women
who looked at him in an interested way,
and caught the whispered words : “Listen to
that ole gennelmun forkin’ to ’imself.” He
gave them an evil scowl, and they became
alarmed and moved off hastily.
The futile attendant presently went by
at full speed with his Dundreary whiskers
streaming. He nodded brightly and chirped.
“Having a rest?” Before Bodger could
think of the right answer, he was gone.
After a quarter of an hour or so, Bodger
was forced to retreat from the eel refuge.
The sluggish, tanked eel, though very irri-
tating, was bearable; but Bodger’s nerve
was broken down by the shy, whispering
couples who walked swiftly and joyously
towards the promising nook and recoiled as
from a wild beast’s lair on finding it occu-
pied. One specially blind pair actually
established themselves right opposite Bod-
ger, and commenced. The young man seized
the young woman’s hand and said, quite
loudly: “But ’ow was I ter know ’e was
lying w’en ’e said ’e kissed yer?”
She tried to pull her hands away, crying
petulantly, “You orter known bettef!”
And again he said: “But ’ow was I
ter”- Then he saw the petrified Bodger
glaring at him, and choked the hot words
back, saying instead, in a strained, would-he
careless way, “Funny little place this ’ete,
ain’t it?”
She took alarm at once, perceived Bod-
ger, and was immediately smitten with a
severe attack of giggles, which necessitated
great play with a small handkerchief. Bod-
ger rose with a dreadful look and left her
considerably sobered. As he passed out, he
was conscious of an upturned nose and some
defiantly caustic comments: “Silly ole jos-
ser ! W’y don’t ’e stay at ’ome and mind
’is own bizness?”
Bodger moved _ along brooding over his
wrongs and avoiding all secluded corners
until he came once more to the stuffed alli-
gator. He was determined, henceforward,
to steer clear of all byways and avoid every
dark corner where a couple might reason-
ably be supposed to be in hiding. Even if
he had to look at the same things twice, he
would do so in preference to risking fur-
ther encounters with lovers. Stay for
awhile he must, for the roar of heavy rain
on the iron roof made a retreat to the open
air impossible.
He was counting the places where the
alligator was peeling when he heard, in a
tone of affected delight, “Why, there’s Mr.
Bodger!”
Turning, he confronted Lempson and Miss
Gummer, both of them wearing the wry
smiles of people who have stumbled over
an acquaintance at an inopportune moment
and choose to meet him face to face, in
preference to cutting him dead, or stealing
silently away.
“Hullo, you people,” grumbled the man
of sense. “Having a quiet afternon far from
the madding crowd?”
They answered with blushes, and started
a forced and feverish conversation, which
soon petered out. Neither side having suffi-
cient nerve to ring off, an awkward pause
ensued. Bodger longed secretly for them
to move on; they yearned for his blessing
and dismissal. Neither Finally
Lempson remarked, with a brave show of
cheerfulness, “Let’s go and have some tea.”
So they moved off without enthusiasm to-
wards the tea-room, at the door of which
they ran into Dundreary. He gallantly prof-
fered a programme to Miss Gummer, mur-
murine meanwhile, “Gonsult the stars,
Madam? Only a shilling— most interest-
ing !”
Miss Gummer took the bill with a smile
of thanks. “How lovely!” She turned to
the protecting fiance and appealed beauti-
fully, in the resistless manner of affianced
brides, “May I, Arthur?”
Lempson inflated his chest and assumed a
look of intense importance. “Of course,
dear! Where is the place?”—this to the
smirking attendant.
“Allow me!” cooed that devoted man, and
wafted himself in his most elegant manner
into the long, stuffy refreshment room. In
the centre thereof stood a still more stuffy
tent with a golden sign dangling before it
inscribed “Madame Zanda —the Stars —
Your Past, Present and Future —ONE
SHILLING.”
At their approach, a masked lady in a
trailing blue gown, who had been giggling
and “larking” in the most lamentably com-
monplace fashion with the refreshment
buffet girl, suddenly ceased jabbering and
began to manifest a keen interest in the
visitors. She looked long and hard at Lemp-
son and his lady-love, and only dived inside
the tent when Dundreary began to pilot
the groun in that direction.
Miss Gummer only annroached the sanc-
tuarv after assuring Bodger and Lempson
in the most emphatic manner that “she
didn’t believe a bit in fortune-tellers, but
just wanted to see what she would say.”
She then went in with a radiant smile, and
Bodger and Lempson conversed with diffi-
culty for the space of 15 minutes. At the
end of that period. Miss Gummer slowly
emerged, an obviouslv shaken and doubt-
stricken woman. “You’ve got to go in,
too, Arthur,” was all she had to say to her
tenderly-solicitous lover. But she added, as
an afterthought, “It’s wonderful how they
can tell things! It almost frightens you!”
Lempson then approached and disappeared
within the shelter, "-hile Bodger lent an
unsympathetic ear to the deeply-impressed
fiancee.
Five minutes passed. Then the oppres-
sively silent room was startled by these
words, sicken in a low. but perfectly dis-
tinct soprano, “Oh, indeed ! You don’t say
so!”
A guilty confessional-box muttering fol-
lowed.
But once more the unseen female crDd.
in accents of utter contempt. “Oh . indeed !”
There were more low and fervent re-
sponses to this ominous speech.
“What is that woman saying to Arthur?”
moaned the bride-elect. “I do hone he
hasn’t lost his temper because she startled
me !”
Bodger grunted ungracefully and looked
with interest at the tent, about which shel-
ter two factory girls were hovering im-
patiently.
“You know.” chattered the perturbed Miss
Gummer, “that Madame Zanda warned me
on no account to marry Arthur, and fore-
told the most awful things if I persisted in
doing so! Of course, I don’t believe a
single word of it! But, all the same. I can’t
heln thinkina /” She broke off miserablv,
and thoughtfully ran the Point of her nara-
sol along the edge of a flooring-board.
And presently Madame was heard to say
in a thoroughly vindictive voice. “Now. go!
And don’t ever let me see your face again !”
The canvas of the tent heaved tumultu-
ously. and Arthur emerged, shaken and
anerv.
“What is it?” pleaded his lady. “What
on earth did she say?”
(Continued on next page.)


THAT BACKACHE
WARNS YOU!
Y
7
'\
c:
IfcOtsdF 3
9
Do YOU get Pains in the Loins and Back?
Gravel? Dropsical Swellings? Rheumatism?
Kidney and Bladder Trouble is Serious!
Backache is generally misunderstood. Many people
neglect it because they believe it to be muscular weakness
due to overwork. So they wait for it to pass off.
But when backache does not pass off, we know that the
pain comes not from the back, but from the kidneys, which he
beneath the back.
It is a warning, and it is a serious warning, for when the
kidneys are weak the uric acid poison they leave in the blood
begins to spread all over the system —
Makes your back ache, your limbs ache —settles into
urinary sediment or gravel, which irritates the bladder and
keeps it in a constant state of discomfort —clogs the urinary
channels and stops the free passage of water, causing the
swellings of dropsy —forms into sharp, jagged crystals in the
muscles, joints and nerves, as in rheumatism and sciatica.
If you have any of these symptoms, begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills without delay, for the longer kidney
trouble is negledted the harder it is to cure. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills gently lead the kidneys back to health and
activity. They relieve the urinary system like laxative medi-
cines relieve the bowels. They prevent waste water from
staying too long in the body, and they drive out the uric acid
poison which causes the above symptoms and many more.
TWO LASTING CURES.
4 YEARS CURED.
Mr. W. James, A’Beckett Street, Granville, says —“I strained my
back when I was quite a lad, and ever since I have suffered greatly from
backache. I tried all kinds of remedies, but only got temporary reliel.
My work used to be very laborious, and I have had to leave it at times
on account of the intense pain. However, Doan’s Backache Kidney im s
cured the backache and strengthened my back. I always tell friends wno
suffer from bad backs to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; they ar
certain to give relief. It is two years since I used the Pills, so my cu
has been well tested.” j
Mr. James confirms his previous statement, two years later, <
says:— “l am still free of the torture of backache, and have been, si
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me four years ago.”
9 YEARS CURED.
Mrs. T. Lewis, 133 Dowling Street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, says
“For years I was a constant sufferer from backache and kidney tro •
My back used to ache till I felt I could hardly bear it any
movement gave me increased pain, and I could
ease. The kidney secretions were much affected
day I heard about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pino, - , . , ne
commenced taking them, and in a few days knew they were a p j
good. As I continued with the remedy, my health rapidly impro >
I was soon quite free of backache and every other distressing sy n
of kidney trouble.” pills
Nine years later, Mrs. Lewis says:—“Doan’s Backache Kiu y n - ne
permanently cured me, for I have been free of backache tor tne
years. My lasting cure is all the more wonderful considering y »
I am 83.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists .*° <
keepers at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles 15/3) ; or posted on reeeip
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street. Sydney.
*' Every
Picture
Tells a
Story.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PULS
Lempson pulled himself together. “Oh,
don’t take any notice of her! Let’s have
some tea.”
They proceeded to a small, marble-topped
table and rang the bell. Dundreary looked
in, observed that the refreshment buffet girl
was not present, and promptly ordered the
reader of stars to come out and attend to
the customers. She came out with a very
bad grace and swept, cloaked and masked
as she was, to the depressed trio at the
table. They asked her respectfully for
scones and tea. The mysterious Zanda
nodded stiffly, floundered away, and pre-
sently reappeared with a skilfully-loaded
tray. Whilst clattering the crockery and
plate before them, she took advantage of her
position behind Lempson’s chair to hiss im-
pressively, “Mind what I told you, young
man !”
Lempson burst out angrily, “Oh, I don’t
care for what you say!”
She caused with a plate in mid-air.
“Don’t you believe me?”
Miss Gummer cried impulsively, “No, we
don’t believe you! Everyone knows that
fortune-telling is all fun!”
“ This isn’t fortune-telling!” retorted
Madame, crashing down the plate.
“It doesn’t matter what it is!” proclaimed
Bodger, contemptuously. “Stargazing or
whatever it is, it’s all rubbish and humbug!
Don’t bother these young people any more,
but lay the table and run away like a good
woman.”
The good woman showed strong symptoms
of having hysterics. In fact, as soon as she
had slammed all the food and eating gear
before her gloomy customers, she retired in
haste to her stuffy pavilion, and had them
with great enthusiasm.
It is difficult t" eat and keep up a bright
conversation while someone near by is weep-
ing bitterly, especially if you have reason
to believe that you are in some way respon-
sible. Bodger fidgeted in his chair for a
minute or so, and made efforts to ignore the
sobs and chokes and sniffs, also the conster-
nation of the two factory girls. But at last
he pushed his plate away and muttered,
“I’m afraid I’ve hurt that silly girl’s feel-
ings. I must go and tell her not to cry like
that!” As he rose, Lempson mumbled that
“it wasn’t worth while worrying about.”
But Bodger didn’t seem to hear him, and
made his way into the tent. Lempson tried
feebly to engage his silent fiancee in con-
versation. But Miss Gummer, who ap-
peared to be vaguely depressed, only sipped
her tea and listened with both ears to the
indistinguishable murmur in the star-
reader’s pavilion. The sobbing bad quite
ceased soon after Bodger’s entry.
Presently the booming voice of the com-
forter began to be heard; and it bad in it
the note that precedes the storm. The en-
gaged people listened with apprehension,
and made no further effort to talk. How-
ever, the interview concluded suddenly.
Bodger, like both his predecessors, emerged
in a shaken condition. The star-reader ap-
peared to give excellent value in the way
of shocks.
Taking his place at the table with the
gloomiest possible air. he remarked darkly,
“I’ve learnt a good deal to-day that I never
knew before!”
“Have a scone!” urged Lempson, pushing
the plate across. Bodger took no notice,
but sat back and stroked his beard and
frowned.
Miss Gummer rustled miserably like a
disturbed bird. “Do you really think she’s
so wonderful, Mr. Bodger? I’d hate to
think all she says is true! She doesn’t
seem to have anything nice to say at all!”
“She hasn’t, my girl! Take my word for
it, she hasn’t!”
“What did she tell you, Mr. Bodger?”
Bodger cleared his throat severely. “The
fact is I don’t care to repeat what she
said !”
Miss Gummer looked at him wildly, saw
him deliberately avoid her eye, and turned
in her extremity to her lover. “Arthur!
What did she say to you ? Tell me at
once!”
Arthur looked extremely unhappy, and
told nothing. A cold voice behind him said,
“Checks !” and a white hand dropped three
slips on the table before him.
“Arthur!”
“Tell her!” hissed the masked figure, and
rustled back to the tent to dispense shocks
to the factory girls, now murmuring im-
patiently.
“Arthur! Please tell me at once!”
“Well, if you must know, she told me
that if I married you I would have a lot of
unhappiness and trouble !”
“What impudence!” stormed the fiancee.
“I don’t believe she consults the stars at
all! Why mustn’t you marry me, pray?”
“Oh, Lord knows, I don’t!” Lempson
carefully gathered up the checks and dusted
his vest.
“Do you know, Mr. Bodger?”
Bodger grasped his beard firmly and fixed
Lempson with a baleful stare, which said,
as plainly as words, “Why don’t you tell
her like a Man?”
The wretched fiance, after a moment’s in-
decision, did so defiantly in these words:
“Look! This silly rot isn’t fortune-telling
at all! I used to meet her, and she’s got a
ring I gave her, like a fool, and now she’s
jealous—that’s the whole strength of it!”
“Oh —h, Arthur!”
“I can’t help it!” wailed the distracted
young man, looking away.
“But you’re engaged to her?”
“No, I’m not!”
“But the ring— your ring?”
“Oh, d —n the ring! That doesn’t mat-
ter !”
“But, Arthur, if she wasn’t reading the
stars at all, what does she mean by saying
you will have a lot of unhappiness and
trouble if you marry me?”
Lempson averted his eyes.
“She means,” intoned Bodger, “that she
will sue him for breach of promise!”
“The cat! Did she tell you that, Mr.
Bodver ?”
“She did , my girl!”
Miss Gummer gasped again and clenched
her hands. “To think that we paid three
shillings to be worried like this!” 4
“Two shillings!” corrected Bodger, pious-
ly. “I didn’t pay anything, thank God !”
Miss Gummer arranged her veil with
trembling, gloved fingers. “Oh, T feel so
ashamed —so humiliated! I don’t know
why I ever got engaged, or hoped for any
happiness, or anything!”
Neither gentlemen had anything to say to
this speech. Lempson appeared to be try-
ing to think of something. But he wasn’t
in that placid frame of mind which is con-
ducive to clear thinking.
Presently the aggrieved fiancee issued a
second edition. “The idea of a creature like
that being in a position to humiliate me!
I will never be able to look anyone in the
face again as long as I live! Oh, it’s too
horribly cruel!” Then she began to sob.
“Now, now, now!” Bodger leant across
the table and patted her lightly on her
tailor-made shoulder; and, although she
didn’t stop, she seemed to cry more com-
fortably. Lempson tried to thank Bodger
with a glance ; but all he got in return was
a stony glare of disapproval. The wretched
lover began to wonder dully why he hadn’t
died in infancy.
While the party were thus engrossed, up
floated Dundreary, quite unfurnished wfith
programmes and looking as severe as a man
of his fluffy type ever could. “May I see
you a moment, sir?” he inquired coldly of
Bodger.
“What about, sir?” boomed Bodger.
Dundreary shot a look of weak hatred
at the grief-sodden Lempson. “It is about
your son, sir !”
“That gentleman isn’t my son!”
“Your nephew then?”
“No; nor my nephew either! He’s no-
thing at all to me!” This was said with
such vehemence that the startled Dun-
dreary looked for a moment as if about to
fly. But he recovered his nerve, and, fixing
Bodger with his eye, took hold of a whisker-
end with thumb and forefinger, and began to
spin and tease it at high speed. “Sir, I
have not the pleasure of your acquaintance.
I do not even know name.”
“Bodger, sir ! John Bodger !”
“Ah, thank you ! Well, Mr. Bodger, you
must not judge a man by the position he
holds. I was formerly assistant secretary
to the Minister for Fireworks and Public
Rejoicings. Unfortunately, the lean years
of 1893 necessitated the cutting down of
the civil service, and our department was
simply butchered!”
Bodger swung round on his chair and
looked the ex-assistant secretary contemptu-
ously up and down. “What has all this
got to do with me?”
“I am coming to that, sir,” was the sweet
and lofty reply. “There being very little
employment then available, I was forced to
take the position in which you find me.”
“Yes,” retorted Bodger, “and a d —d nice
position it is! Humbugging people about
with empty cages, and running a hole-and-
corner asylum for sweethearts, to say no-
thing of that twaddling fortune-teller who
can’t mind her own business, but runs
about all over the place insulting people! ”
“Sir! that lady is my daughter! And
she is not a fortune-teller, sir! She is a
reader of the stars !”
(Lempson and Miss Gummer began to
look alarmed.!
“Well, I’m sorry to see that your daughter
is no better employed than yourself!”
“Do you mean?”
“And how the devil she can read stars in
the daytime in a place like this passes my
comprehension altogether! Personally I
don’t think she reads anything but trashy
novelettes ! That’s my honest opinion about
it!”
Dundreary controlled himself. “What I
wished to say, sir, is this: Would you mind
telling me what that young gentleman in-
tends to do with regard to my daughter?”
And then Bodger definitely lost his tem-
per. “Damme, you look like a fool, and you
are a fool! I’ve already told you that
young gentleman is nothing to me! But,
even if he was anything, I wouldn’t know
what he intended doing unless he had told
me! And he hasn’t told me! Ask him
yourself, sir! Ask him yourself!” The
tea things leapt into the air with a crash
from the force with which Bodger empha-
sised this direction.
The fiance looked dully at the futile
father, muttered, “What a rotten fuss !” and
dropped his eyes.
His late lady-love looked at him with a
wild, wintry expression. “I—l release you.
Arthur !” she said in a low, clear voice, and
made preparations to remove her glove and
the ring beneath it.
The father began to chatter again. “I
want to know”
“Yes,” boomed Bodger, “you want to
know a lot! But you’re not going to bother
this young lady any more in this public
room !”
“My daughter, sir”
“OH, SHUT UP, PA!” hissed the star-
reader, suddenly appearing from nowhere in
particular. Unmasked and clothed in a
neat blue dress, she was a rather pretty girl
of about 20 The abashed father fell back
meekly as she walked up to the table and
threw on it something that jingled musi-
cally. “There’s your, ring, Arthur. I don’t
want to see it or its owner any more!”
Then, humming gaily to herself, she turned
from the stricken group and walked off just
as an indignant woman with an absurd hat
nounced on her father. “ ’Ere, Mister!
Where’s this ’ere star-readin’ goin’ on, and
gives’ a programme, fer goo'ness sake, so’s
we can fin’ somethin’ or other ter look at!
Never seen such a mixed-uo place in me ’ole
life. W’y carn’t yer ’tend ter people wot’s
paid their munney, ’stead o’ standin’ round
parsin’ th ’time o’ day!” Still scolding at
top speed, she swept the unhappy Dun-
dreary from the room to beat up entertain-
ment for herself and party.
Miss Gummer, having failed to wrench
off the ring, picked up her glove and rose
from her chair, carefully avoiding mean-
while the anguished eye of Lemoson.
“Mr. —Bodger ! Will —-you please— please
take me home?” These words, enunciated
with great difficulty, brought Bodger to his
feet.. They swept out slowly together—she
leaning heavily on his arm. Lempson, alone
at the table, stared after them like a man
in a nightmare.
Half-way down the corridor, the depart-
ing pair were run into by Dundreary, who
had just escaped from the clutches of the
scold, and started business again in a sort
of daze. Without looking at his intended
victims’ faces, he proffered a programme
and started to gabble off the usual formula :
“Care to consult the stars, sir? Only a
shilling. Most interesting”
“Afore humbug!” growled Bodger. and
pushed rudely by, leaving him trembling.
The slight encounter attracted the atten-
tion of a young couple in an alcove close
by. “There, yer see! There ’e is again! I
was right! Th’ cunnin’ ole josser just cum-
mere ter do a mash !”
KODAK.


ms
The
*, V
/•
r STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
vbn
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention -
1 It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
lt is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. Wellington.
Fairbanks -Morse Marine
For Pleasure Craft and Work Boats
They start without cranking, run
smoothly and always develop more
than rated power. Simple.
Compact. All parts easily acces-
sible and interchangeable. Re-
markable for their reliability and
economy in fuel consumption. Price
Reasonable. Fully Guaranteed.
High Speed Engines, 314, to 24 H.P.
Slow Speed Engines, VA and 15 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.CV1939.
Falrbanks-Morse !■
Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy engines especially suited
for pumping or running light machinery.
Simple. Compact. Two sizes. Will operate
any windmill pump.
Full description in Catalog N0.1939VR.
F.Pfl.
Type
At.
i-Morse
Oil Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline)
or Distillate. Stationary and Portable
types. Sizes 2to 200 H.P.
Write for Catalog N0.AL1939.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Wabash Ave. and Chicago,
Eldredge Place U. S. A.
vbn
WEBSTER & CO., Ltd.
Brisbane, Queensland
MALLACH BROS.
Perth, W. A.
TWO GOOD LINES FOR STEAM USERS.
ct
mec;st£«£g
NO T a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Air or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sices.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
vnvbn
A Monthly Guide for eve
Australian.
6d
m
fit
Economy Tiering Machine.
——■— .
A machine for stacking all goods to
any height limited by size of machine.
For Stacking Wool and Skins in Woolsheds.
For Stacking Stores for Storekeepers.
For Stacking any goods in a quick, cheap and
effective way.
Parsons Trading Co.,
Wr,te for fM>l P artlcu,ars * 340 Kent St., Sydney. Equitable Buildings. Melbourne.
New Digestions for Old
—strength for debility—cheerfulness for despondency—health for ill-
health such are the good results following. a course of Beecham’s
Pills. If you are suffering from indigestion or any of the complaints to
which it gives rise you, will find the World’s Family Medicine remove
the trouble and restore the organs to healthy action. This, at least,
has been the experience of hundreds of thousands of people who have
been led to adopt it during the past three generations and there is no
reason why it should not be your experience, also. Dyspepsia, liver
and kidney derangements, biliousness, headaches, sickness, constip-
ation are some of the many disorders from which you may find relief
Taking
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/li (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills),
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager
Sawmillers, Joiners and Cabinet Makers
You all require Economical, High-speed
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Ask us for Catalogues.
Ask us for References.
Ask us for Advice.
Ask us for Prices.
You will find that—Our Machines give you satisfaction.
You will find that—We hold the largest stock in Australia.
You will find that—Our expert advice is to your benefit.
You will find that-Our Prices as MANUFACTURERS are reasonable.
WE SAVE YOU MONEY.
Write, call or ’phone ; we are always ready for you to discuss our machines.
THE PREMIER SAWMILL & WOODWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURERS,
KIRCHNER & CO.,
32 Market St.,
’PHONE: CITY
The Car for Professional Men.
The Metz is a refined-looking car. Any professional man could take a
pride in one. The color and finish are as the customer wishes, and the
merits of the car don’t end with its looks.
It can be used for the roughest service—for fording streams, climbing
hills on the top gear, doing anything in speed up to 50 miles per hour.
All this is the result of the friction-drive, which does away with gears,
gear box, clutch, live rear axle, differentials, etc. Price complete is -
£lB5.
Let us take you for a trial spin in a Metz “Twenty-two.” Telephone
City 4352 and we’ll call whenever you wish. Make an appointment
to-day.
, v.
375 KENT STREET (Between King
and Market Streets), SYDNEY.
,V> :\i.
CARS,
WAVERLEY CARS,
INDIAN MOTOR CYCLES.
" . •'■/? '\ - ' \■ <' .
■' J ‘Wmßm
GUTS
on
HORSES
FLINTS MEDICATED OIL
Is without doubt the most surprisingly prompt cure for Saddle Galls, Cuts.
Fistula or Broken Knees on horses. It possesses the rare merit of healing
without leaving any blemish, the hair growing in the natural colour. This
distinguishes Flint’s Oil from every other preparation. Price 35., from most
stores throughout Australia, and procurable through any wholesale house
such as Elliott Bros., Sj'dney and Brisbane, or from
C. B. FLINT, Manufacturing; Chemist, ADELAIDE.
HIGH-SPEED SPECIALISED TOOLS THAT
WILL MAKE MORE MONEY FOR YOU.
High-speed specialised tools cut out unprofitable hand work. They enable
you to enter fields yet untouched —to create business without adding a single
employee to your force. We can supply the following tools from makers
whose names are a guarantee of efficiency and excellence.
MACHINE TOOLS.
High-speed Lathes
Shearing Machines
Punching Machines
Power Hammers
Drilling Machines
Radial Drills
Shaping Machines
Milling Machines
Punching Machines
Hack Saws
Blowers
Electric Drills
WOODWORKING MACHINES.
Circular Saw Benches
3 & 4 Cutter Planers
Chain Mortisejrs
Tenoning Machines
Spindle Moulders
Panel Planers
Dovetailers
Band Saws
Sanders
SMALL, TOOLS AND SUNDRIES.
. Genuine Morse Drills, Milling and Gear Cutters, “Ideal” Cutting
Compound, Stocks and Dies, Slotting Cutters, Cotton Waste <9
grades), The “Lubriko” System of Line Shafting, Taps, Pulleys
Belting, Shafting, etc., etc.
CASH OR TERMS.
T. M. GOOD ALL & CO. LTD.,
Universal Machinery Merchants, 303=5 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
mackT ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS 9f ELECTRIC MOTORS
for MINES, FACTORIES and PRINTING WORKS.
CHEAPEST POWER SYSTEM KNOWN.
Full particulars on application to Australian Agency :
T. K. STEANES,
37-43 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Fireproof Buildings of
Fibro-Cement (Asbestos) Skets
at the cost of Weatherboards.
Suitable fer Dwellings, Theatres, Halls,
Wareheuses, etc.
Timber is dear, so is labor. You only require about
tjhree-fourths the quantity of studding and labor for a
building- of Fibro-Cement.
LOOK AT THE SAVING THAT IS MADE.
Fibro-Cement is made of best Portland cement reinforced
with Asbestos.
FIRE, HEAT, ROT and ANT PROOF.
Easily erected by ordinary carpenter. Outlasts timber,
iron, or lath and plasier.
CONSTANTLY IMPROVES WITH LAPSE OF TIME.
Supplied also in Slates for roofing.
Write for Lithos and Catalog L to sole importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
A Tonic
of
Medicinal
Value.
WOLFE
, SCHNAPPS
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
vbn
BLOW OFF
ARRANGEMENT
DISCHARGE
"" VALVE
SPINDLE
GUIDE TUBE
INLET
FLOAT
VANES
CLEANING
POOR —xL
V 1322
“S E N TI N E L”
High Pressure STEAM TRAPS
FOR STEAM PRESSURES to 250 lbs.
SPECIAL FEATURES— Has Renewable Valve and Seat, Re grinds its Vaive after
each Discharge, Preserves its Tightness even with Gritty Steam.
Over 40 in Use in Ultimo Power House alone. As supplied to Railway, Water and
Sewerage Board, Mines, Shipbuilders, etc. SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
vnb
*2 PITT ST., SYDNEY;
And at MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, PERTH.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRON FOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Waives, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent ee Nelyambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works : Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
■ 5-’
WALKER, HORROCKS LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
AUSTIN
OIL ENGINES.
SELF-STARTING
and STOPPING.
PREMIER
ACCUMULATORS
Sole Agents; WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-11 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
380_BourKe Street, MELBOURNE.
m
■
.
■
* "■
H■■HHB
IMPROVED
FOR DELIVERING A FINE and UNIFORM SIZE PRODUCT TO
CRUSHING ROLLS, HUNTINGTON MILLS, etc., we can
confidently recommend sihall BreaKers, the principle
of their construction providing for immediate and positive
adjustment to a finer or coarser gauge as required.
Small 8 Large Sizes Carried in Stock. Capacity 1-4 Tons per hour.
Occupies little space, requires small amount of power, and costs very little for repairs.
If you are interested, write or call for Full Descriptive Circular.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd.,
Engineers 8 Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
vnbvnb
The Fastest of all Rock
Drills and Simplest in
Construction.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
vnb
The LOWEST Air Con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
STOCKS HELD AT SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, PERTH.
,/v
■
m m
I M
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
525 Collins St., Melbourne
W.A. Agents: CHAS. ATKINS CO. LTD., Perth and Kalg'oorlie.
