

THE WHISKY OF MANY MERITS.
R. Car. WATKINS SZ, CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney.
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
■SP e c‘ a lty ; AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. CO., LTD.,
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215=217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: No. 225 Central.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceneral Manager.
ECOBA.HX.
Hadley’s Orient (jotel.
Q
UEEN OF STATES”
BACON and HAIVfS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO. LTD., BRISBANE.
piONEE R
LEATHER BELTING
GiURANTHKD
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
MUTTONS
iHAMS*BACOH
S.H.B
RESISTING
SAFES.
32 RECIPES
for preparing a variety of the most
dainty Desserts with
HANSENS
will be forwarded, Post Free to Any
Address, on application to
T. 8., Box 577, G.P.0., Sydney.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service,
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO..
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE-NEWCASTLE
T BECK’S LAGER BEER
There is no better Roofing made than
A very large number of the big city buildings now
carry MALTHOID roofs. Why ? Because when
flat roofs are used, there is one absolute essential
that they be watertight. Malthoid is watertight.
Malthoid will measure up to all the standards
by which a perfect roofing should be judged,
It is easy to lay, good to look at, and
absolutely proof against water and
fumes ; also, it is fire retardent.
If the city man uses flalthoid to roof his eight-
storey building, there is good precedent for your
using it when you are building. May we send
you samples and prices, or—better still—may we
send a “ Malthoid ” man to see you?
The Paraffine Paint Co.,
CH ALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
Agents Everywhere.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY E-
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
LIGHT! NC
COOKI NG
H EATI NC
SPENSERS*
I DEAL PETROL
AIR CAS
> JMrtYirtuei>ci
MACHINERY MERCHANTS
352 KENTSTREETnearKmdS'
oYDNEV ?
.
HELIDON SPA
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD,, Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, cind Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 34.—N0. 1/00.]
[Thursday, November 6, 1913.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AUSTRALIAN BOORS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.)
Winter, Rev. (W. H.) : Queen Elizabeth. An Epic Drama in Four Acts. 4/6 (2d.). (The author is
Rector of St. Saviour’s, Glen Osmond, S. Australia.)
Nicholls (J. S.) : The Eldest Son of Queen Elizabeth.
2/6 (Id.).
O’Reilly (Dowell): Tears and Triumph. 1/- (Id.).
Radford, D.D. (L. B.): Ancient Heresies in Modern
Dress. 6/- (2d.).
Redgrave (L. A.): Gwen: A Romance of Australian
Bush Life. 3/6 (Id.).
Hervey (Grant) : Australians Yet and Other Poems.
3/6 (2d.).
Wise (B. R.): The Making of the Australian Com-
monwealth. 9/- (4d.).
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T'Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE ROUND TABLE.
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the British
Empire, No. 12. Contents: “Downing Street ,
South Africa and its Native Question; U.K. _
Opinion and the Navy; Official Standards and
ciples; The Marconi Sequel, etc., etc, AU£>IHAJUIa.
The General Election and the Referenda; Defence ,
Industrial Problems. SOUTH AFRICA: Immigrants
Regulation Law, etc., etc. N.Z.: H.M.S. i*ew
Zealand; Citizen Army, etc., etc.
Price 2/6; Annual Subscription, 10/-. Macmiun
& Co., Ltd., Melbourne; and all Booksellers.
Hudson’s EUMENTHOL Tooth
Powder
SECURES SOUND
WHITE TEETH.
This Powder is not only an Antiseptic and
Germicide, but cleanses mechanically, owing
to the evolution of free active oxygen when
the powder is in contact with water or the
oral fluids. It is the oxygen which, by neu-
tralising the acid-producing organisms of de-
cay, and dissolving mischievous deposits,
whitens the teeth so wonder fully * and wards
off decay as no other preparation for the
Teeth can or will do. Scientists, agree that
a powder is superior to any liquid or paste
for cleansing and preserving the Teeth. The
Committee of the British Dental Association
recommend powder as best for the Teeth.
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal bottles, handy tor
travel or home, prioe 1/6, forwarded free on receipt of stamps.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co.i td *< 19 York st., Sydney.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing va'uable information
11 regarding the Teeth.
,HOW TO USE THE POWOER.i
The Red Page
DEAD HEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What if my heart should die and I did not
know!
If I saw the nodding dahlias come and go
With no delighted start —•
Went cold in September's sun where the
swallows dart
Close to my face
In their aery race —
Whom, whom should I curse for my dying
heart?
If, in the windy pools along the shore,
The sun its silver dapples made no more!
If the slow-falling shuffle of the sea
Made no unspeakable yearning move in me!
And, when the dawn came loaded with new
fate
For flowers and clouds and men, should my
high gait
Spurn in its pride the hedges that I pass?
The white geraniums near the green lawn
grass?
Did I spurn the jewels that a wet night
leaves
Swung from web-wheels that the spider
weaves —
If I lost my faith in a late sun ray,
If the glory of daffodils slipt away;
If l . looked on romping dogs without a move
Saying that ins that there was nothing to
love;
If I dreamed I saw
What revealeth now, but saw it not, and awe
Stole from my soul through some constituent
flaw!
If dark gleams of the cliffs where turns the
creek
Harbored but darkness and no gnomes that
speak
Truth and delight!
And oh, the night!
What if I lost
The steel-blue color of a night of frost!
If the gleam of lighted windows on the hill
Found this heart steady still; I
If a tall white house on a pine-clad rise
Probed a cold heart through unresponsive
eyes,
If the dawn-trot of an early market load
Broke me no joy from out its hidden road,
From the song of its sleepy men —-
t should gladly die then.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Wilde
“You’ll dine your man in Paris to-mor-
row,” remarked the Solicitor-General to
Edward Clarke, Wilde’s counsel, at the con-
clusion of the third trial of Oscar Wilde.
But Wilde’s counsel, waiting for the return
of the jury, was less hopeful. And Wilde
went to gaol for two years.
The opportunity is now given, by the pub-
lication of Oscar Wilde: Three Times Tried,
a big volume, giving, with some necessary-
suppression of detail, the full report of the
three trials in which Wilde figured, not only
of judging whether Wilde was guilty, but
whether the evidence submitted Vas suffi-
cient for that verdict. The conclusion, if a
lay critic may venture his opinion—-the con-
clusion that as a juryman this critic would
have reached —is that Wilde was undoubt-
edly guilty, but that the evidence was
not strong enough for a conviction. That
conclusion the jury of the second trial evi-
dently reached, since the jury was unable
to agree. Wilde was sent to gaol by Wow-
sers.... but Wilde deserved gaol. “Onfie in
six or seven years,” wrote Macaulay, “our
virtue becomes outrageous.”
J*
This, according to the author, is the first
accurate account of the trials; and it gains
in picturesqueness by indicating the manner
in which the accused and the witnesses com-
ported themselves in the box. The proceed-
ings were instituted by one Queensberry, the
father of Alfred Douglas, both bizarre speci-
mens of England’s aristocracy. The father,
maddened by his son’s intimacy with Wilde,
left a card for the latter at the Albemarle
Club. This Was handed to Wilde by the
porter. On it was written Wilde’s name and
a statement, not that he was guilty of a cer-
tain crime, but that he was “posing” as
such a criminal. Wilde had no choice then
but to sue Queensberry for criminal libel.
Queensberry was a short man with a round
face, clean-shaven except for a streak of
red whisker, and, a drooping lip. His plea
was justification. He accused Wilde of defi-
nite acts of immorality. And as the case
proceeded revelation follpwed revelation,
and the plaintiff found himself in the posi-
tion of defendant. His cross-examination
led to admissions that could not be over-
lopked. It was an unfair cross-examination
in part, since it dealt with Wilde’s works,
and even with a story that had not been
written by Wilde, but had merely appeared
in a magazine, afterwards suppressed, to
which Wilde had contributed. But the
damning part of the cross-examination re-
vealed the possession in the hands of the
defendant of a body of painful evidence. As
always, stolen letters came into the wrong
hands. Wilde’s justification of one of these
letters was that it was a prose poem, and
his tenancy of the witness-box was the occa-
sion for a brilliant flow of impudent and
delightful paradox. And Wilde’s counsel,
with the acquiescence of his client, with-
drew, agreeing to a verdict of Not Guilty.
Wilde’s arrest naturally followed.
It should be noted that Wilde would have
had plenty of time to leave the country had
he wished to do so; but apparently he was
so confident of being acquitted that he was
determined to remain and face any charges
that might be made against him. It is to be
regretted that Wilde was not persuaded by
his friends to go abroad —at least, for a
time —until the violent prejudice which had
been imported into the case, and worked up
against him by the baser section of the
gutter press of London, had calmed down.
However, he was informed by a journalist
that a warrant had been issued for his
arrest, and he waited at the hotel for what-
ever developments might arise.
J*
At the time of his arrest two of Wilde’s
plays were being performed in London, The
Importance of Being Earnest and An Ideal
Husband. The last night of the latter play
had already been announced, but the former
continued running for another month, the
author’s name having been removed, with
delightful hypocrisy, from all advertisements
and programmes, both in London and in
America. It may be mentioned that the
offence of which Wilde was charged had
become a crime only in 1886, when an
amendment so constituting it was inserted
in a bill dealing with immorality. Prior to
1886 this offence was not a crime—nor is it
a crime to-day in several European coun-
tries.
It will be noticed that from the moment
of his arrest Wilde was treated as guilty by
almost everybody, especially by the lower
class press, which did its best to stir up
prejudice against him. It is stated that he
was all the time treated more harshly than
an ordinary prisoner would have been.
The charge was one of misdemeanor, not
of felony. Yet Wilde was refused bail while
on remand. It is stated, however, that it
was obvious from the first that the Treasury
had been anxious to avoid overloading the
case against the accused, rather than press
the charge. During this second trial Wilde
had changed in a startling degree. His face
was haggard and grey, his cheeks seemed
fallen in, his hair unkempt, and his general
mien was one of great depression and sudden
age. Later on, a sickly pallor seized
upon his countenance, and he betrayed a
great deal of nervous activity.
J*
With him in the dock was Alfred Taylor,
charged with him with conspiring. The
indictment contained 25 counts, all of them
amounting only to misdemeanor. During
the course of this trial Wilde, asked to ex-
plain the meaning of a poem by Alfred
Douglas, made that wonderful speech in his
own defence which has been declared to be
“the finest speech of an accused man since
that of Paul before Agrippa.” As literature,
it is, in Robert Buchanan’s words, indeed
“marvellous.” It is said to have (hrilled
every one in the court. Unfortunately,
judging by the evidence, it was not true. In
the witness-box, under the shrewdest cross-
examination, Wilde acquitted himself with
dignity, and his willingness to enter the
witness-box stood in his favor with the jury.
The jury disagreed; but the weakness of
the case may be seen from the fact that out
of the 25 counts in the original indictment
two were struck out by the Judge, three,
were abandoned by the prosecution, on three
counts the two defendants were found not
guilty, and on the rest the jury returned no
verdict. The prosecution was unfortunate
in having to rely for their chief evidence on
disreputable persons, most of them black-
mailers ; but it is difficult to see, in a case
of this sort, where any but this sort of tes-
timony could have been found. Wilde was
this time released on bail while awaiting
what was practically his third trial. One
of his sureties was a clergyman, Stewart
Headlam, who stated that he had under-
taken the responsibility on public grounds.
He felt that the public mind had been pre-
judiced before the trial began. It is said that,
though at this time Wilde had been found
guilty of no offence, he was refused admis-
sion at more than one hotel on the night of
his release, and that he was followed about
by a gang of roughs.
In the next trial the defendants were
separately tried. Parker’s case wqs taken
first, and he was found guilty on two counts.
Wilde’s counsel had protested against his
client having to wait till Parker’s case had
been settled, on the ground that a verdict
given against Parker would prejudice his
own client’s case; but he was overruled. Of
course, had Parker been acquitted, Wilde
would have had the benefit of- that verdict.
It was Wilde’s own counsel who had asked
that the two defendants should be tried
separately, but Edward Clarke was beaten
by the prosecution deciding to take Parker’s
case first. It is probe ole that had Edward
Clarke got Wilde’s case taken first, it would
have been extiemely difficult to obtain
Wilde’s conviction. It was, however, in
Wilde’s favor that the counts alleging con-
spiracy with Taylor had been withdrawn at
the previous trial, and that the jury at
Parker’s trial had been unable to agree on
other counts which would have implicated
Wilde.
Wilde was found guilty on seven counts
—all except one. Sentence,in Parker’s case
had been deferred; and each, after a scath-
ing address irom Uie Judge, was sentenced
to two years’ hard labor —the severest sen-
tence that the law allowed. Analysing the
verdict, the author says, “Wilde was con-
victed on the evidence of two blackmailers
and some hysterical servant girls. The
former had been described as belonging to a
gang of the vilest type of men produced by
great cities; the evidence of the latter, his
Lordship had declared, was not fit to hang a
dog upon.” The author also finds fault with
the -unnecessary virulence in the tone of the
Solicitor-General, who conducted the case
for the prosecution.
However,
Wilde was guilty.
The Rea l South Africa
According to Ambrose Pratt The Real
South Africa (Bell, per Dymock’s Library)
is situated in the suburbs of Hades.
“The vast bulk of the sub-continent is a
barren, pest-ridden wilderness, where only
the black man can live or hope to thrive.
One passes across thousands of miles of
monotonous veld, and sees no cultivation, no
stock worth owning, no sign of comfortable
or civilised habitation. The British are
walled and cooped up in the mushroom
cities: the Boers are scattered sparsely
through the lonely plains. The British
think only of winning riches from the
mines. The Boers, absolutely ambitionless,
think only of wanning a meagre livelihood
from the sour and reluctant soil: and both
races alike, corrupted and enervated by
their long and uninterrupted dependence on
the blacks, ‘laze’ along, do no work save
overseeing work, and prosper, or exist, as
they prefer, on the slavish toil of the down-
trodden aboriginal inhabitants... .On the
veld....the blacks are everywhere, and con-
tact with them brutalises and depraves the
whites. The landscape is either dreadfully
monotonous or appallingly grand, but. always
the eye wanders in a miserable, baffled quest
for a sign of trees.... Dust storms sweep
across the plains with every wind-whirling
maelstroms of blinding sand and powdered
soil —and this even in the heart of the rainy
season of the year. They call the herbage
that covers these plains grass....lt grows
in far separated clumps—bundles of wire
and weeds. South Africa has been settled
for several hundreds of years: it has been
fought for and bled for by many peoples:
to-day its to,tal white population scarcely
exceeds 1,200,000 souls..,.The natives are
so physically vigorous and mentally virile,
their numbers are so vast, thei-f rate of
natural increase is so great and rapid, and
their desire to exceed the bounds of the
white man’s caste prejudice is so keen that
it is staringly obvious that their aspirations
must be restricted and repressed as a con-
dition precedent to the preservation of white
supremacy The whites at one and the
same time hate, fear, despise and use the
blacks. They cannot do without them.
South African civilisation is a marble palace
built upon a quagmire of black, heaving
bodies. Shake or disturb the essential foun-
dation of cheap, colored labor, and it would
crumble on instant... .Christianised negroes
have churches of their own, and did any
black venture to invade the portals of the
white man’s house of worship he would not
merely be driven forth; his impertinence
would be rewarded with the whip. Mil-
lionaires and mechanics view the negro
through cognate sets of spectacles. The
millionaire wants plenty of unskilled
cheap labor. The mechanic wants a mono-
poly of the skilled labor market, and, being
lazy, he also wants cheap black industrial
valets to perform the rougher portions of
his work The blacks are given all the
unskilled labor in the land to do, and be-
cause they do it at the call of caste, that
labor is proscribed from white performance.
Thus the class of ‘noor whites’ originated.
Every town and city has its unlisted legion
of such men. They are unskilled laborers.
They would be glad to do unskilled work in
any other land: but in South Africa they
would not if they dared, and dare not if
they would, for the punishment of their
offence would be eternal ostracism from their
kind... .Factories there are almost none.”
A pleasant picture! Ambrose Pratt’s
skilled journalist’s pen fills in the dark de-
tails. South Africa, is a black man’s coun-
try. Climate, disease, the ratio of increase
between black and white, will keep it so.
At present the blacks outnumber the whites
within the Union by four to one —and there
are millions of blacks just outside. A car-
penter walks to his job with a Kaffir behind
him carrying his bag. Each white girl, going
to school, is followed by a Kaffir carrying her
school-books. And the Kaffirs are not like
the Australian blacks: they are a capable
and ambitious race —skilled and dexterous
craftsmen. The whole race is infected
with a craze for education. There are
more black than white children attending
the public schools.
And right in the centre o| the Union lies
the blacks’ fortress of Basutoland, impreg-
nable, held by a third of a ihillion Basutos,
armed and unconquered. The land is full of
savings banks, its exports are rapidly increas-
ing, the kraals are giving place to well-built
houses, picked scholars are every year sent
abroad to be educated; the color-line is
sternly drawn at the borders against the
wuite man, the farmers use steam ploughs
and harvest by machinery, factories ar>
being built. And the Basutos are soldiers
by tradition and are armed with modern
weapons. And what is the Union going to
do with this black volcano in its midst V
The real Boer is pictured as a dirty re-
trogressive waster. The death-rate of the
miners in the Rand is dreadful; but Pratt
supplies statistics and official reports for his
conclusions. And South Africa has practi-
cally no indigenous literature. And the
sub-continent knows drought as, happily
Australia has never known it.
The one cheerful aspect in this dark pic-
ture is Pratt’s account of the municipal
Socialism of the cities. Each city owns all
its civic utilities, and the experiment of
municipal Socialism has everywhere been
so successful that even State bakeries are
in existence, while municipal dairies and
food production and distribution are
authoritatively advocated as the next steps.
Yet South Africa has never had room for a
Labor party. It is governed by Fat— and
Fat, haying the sense to see that Private
Enterprise was, as usual, bringing along his
commanding officer, General Exploitation-
decided to experiment with municipal con-
trol. “Thus the world has been afforded
the anomalous and amusing spectacle of a
purely capitalistic State outdistancing in
Socialism the Socialists themselves.”
Wanted—A November Sonnet
The entries for the competition for the
best sonnet on our Australian October must
beach this page by November 3. Meantime
sonneteers may be trying their pens ou
November. Half a guinea will be paid for
the best sonnet on our November, provided
that entries are addressed to this page and
received by us by December 6. Competitors
will note that we do not desire sonnets that
end in a riming couplet.
• __
In protest against the action of The Cir-
culating Libraries’ Association, the league
of London subscription libraries that has
tak-_. upon itself to censor books, this page
will, from time to time, give publicity to the
books that have been banned. The Associa-
tion states: “We are tradesmen; our cus-
tomers expect us to supply them only with
matter suitable for family reading; parents
will complain if they find in their daughters’
hands books which they consider unfit for
the young; and we, being tradesmen, must so
conduct our business as to avoid giving our
customers ground for complaint.” A curious
idea these tradesmen have of the purpose of
literature. They still believe authors write
for the Young Person—who, by the way,
must not be confused with the Flapper. The
method adopted by these libraries is to
classify the books at their own discretion,
placing in “Class B” some which are not
“offered.” These books do not appear on
the printed catalogues, are not displayed on
bookstalls, shelves or counters, or sent out
in parcels selected by the library authori-
ties. If. perchance, a customer, having dis-
covered the name of a censored book, asks
for it, it is, apparently after some delay, sup-
plied. “Thus,” says The Athenaeum, “the
associated libraries hold and wield at their
pleasure a weapon with which they can
seriously injure persons engaged in produc-
ing those wares in which they themselves
are dealers.” The only way to counteract
this attempt on the part of a trust of trades-
men to censor fiction in order to preserve
the alleged virginity of the minds of Young
Persons is to give a free advertisement to
such censored books. The most recent of
the banned books are: The Woman Thou
Caves t Me (Hall Caine), The World’s
Daughter (Cyril Harcourt), The Devil’s
Garden (W. B. Maxwell), Sinister Street
(Compton Mackenzie). And this page will
erdeavor to review all such censored works
—with, of course, the obvious exception of
Hall Caine. There are some books that are
beyond criticism —on this page.
A new edition of Lost England, by
Beckles Willson, in the compact shilling
“Useful Knowledge” series (Hodder and
Stoughton, per George Robertson, Sydney),
calls attention to the striking fact that
England is gradually disappearing. The
good ship, England, has been scuttled, and
she is slowly, but inevitably, settling down.
All round her coasts marine erosion is going
on. “For hundreds of miles on the English
coasts are buried once prosperous towns and
villages and mighty forests?” Despite re-
clamations, the balance against England is
hundreds of square miles lost to the sea.
Yet there is a compensation in the disap-
pearance of the vast tract of land between
Land’s End and the Scill.y Isles, for this
was the Lyonesse of tradition, and many a
poet has niade a good living out of Lyonesse.


n
Anthony Horderns’ for the Summer Fashions.
Attractive Costumes at Anthony Horderns'
KENILWORTH
MIGNON
Iris
MELISANDE
ROMA
The Kenilworth.—Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black or
Chestnut Brown Crepe, with fine White stripe ; coat is high-waisted, with
long revers, trimmed small Crystal Buttons and pretty pointed Lace
Collar; four-piece Skirt, with lapped scam back and front 21/9
The Mignon.—Useful Robe Costume, of Navy, Tan, Grey, Saxe or
old Rose Linene, front fastening, three-quarter set-in sleeve, turned-down
American collar, and fancy piping; four-piece Skirt, with lapped seam
back and front 4/11
The Iris.—Fashionable Robe Costume, of White and Colored
striped Pique, fastens at back, inlet in centre front of plain Linen to
match stripes, finished pointed White Guipure 15/9
The Melisande.—Effective Robe Costume, in Nattier Blue or
Dark Grey figured Delaine, turn-down collar, new three-piece Skirt 23/6
The Roma. —Coat and Skirt Costume, of Saxe, Grey or Black
block-striped Whipcord, collar of plain Sponge Cloth in contrasting shades,
high-waist'd, fo' r-piece Skirt, lapped seam back and front, finished shaded
Crystal But ions 32/6
Itp
fit
u.
m
h.
4 4 ■ *
\0 0\
■ " #
Jilloplojj' Intoujiiy
m/
Kestevcin
Warwick
Savo 3>'
jClsHlfe*
Carlton
The Castille. Handsome Coat, ill Natural Tussore Silk, new straight-out back, large Collar,
[levers and Cuffs smartly braided embossed Silk Braid to tone; stylish front, with wide diagonal
seams, 50in. to 56in 49/6
The ILesteven. Fashionable Coat, in Stripe Canvas Tweed, deep Spade Collar and Cuffs of
Guipure, Kevers of self, straight-cut back with wide lapped seam, finished fancy Silk Buttons.
Grey, Biscuit and Tan, 52in. to 56in 39/6
The Warwick. Useful Dust Coat, in Panama Cloth, large Sailor Collar, Rovers and Cuffs
of Stripe Pique, smart back, with stitched band, finished buttons to match collar. Biscuit, Grey,
Saxe and Navy, 52in. and 54in 29/6
The Savoy. Effective Coat, in Tussore Casement Cloth, Silk finish Kimono style, wide lapped
seams from shoulder to waist back and front; circular Collar of self, trimmed fancy Silk Braid to
tone, and facings of Black Satin, 50in. to 54in 37/6
The Carlton. Distinctive Coat, in Natural Tussore Silk, smartly cut, loose back, stylish
circular Collar and Cuffs, trimmed embossed Silk Braid and facings of Satin Charmeuse, fastening
side effect, large Oriental Buttons, 52in. to 56in 49/6
Anthony Horderns’
...SUMMER...
FASHION BOOK
is an authoritative guide to the
prevailing modes. The illus-
trations faithfully depict selec-
tions from the noteworthy
display in the Green Room of
Charming Reception Dresses
and Evening Gowns, Smart
Ready-to-Wear Costumes and
Blouses and Skirts. Fashions
for Young Australia are also
shown, as well as the New
Millinery, Seasonable Footwear
and Lingerie. Write for a
copy, post free on request.
' r
A
T --^7^
ii
§/ i
f I- ; :
m
■%
» w<
**»
i
/ i'
l'V( v«
I
D,st,7nC^ eDe& ' o^
ASCOT
CHATSWORTtt
WEIBECK
WINTREg
The Ascot. An effective design in Ivory Net over Net, foundation;
Bodice has groups of pin tucks and Pearl Buttons on the corsage, basque
and foot of Skirt trimmed with handsome darned Net Insertion.. 79/6
The Welbeck.—A New Style in Silk Crepoline ltobe, founda-
tion of Champagne with Coat of Tan, finished Collar effect of Cham-
pagne, folded belt and ends at back of Black Satin; also Grey Robe with
Black Coat, White with Black Coat, or any combination of two colors, or
any self color 72/6
The Aintree.—Dainty Robe Costume, of richlv-embossed ivory Net,
unlined. The sleeves are finished pleated Net Frills 40/-
The Chatsworth.—Stylish Two-piece Combination Costume
Robe, of fine Ivory Japanese Silk, has new American Collar and knot
of Saxe Crepe-de-Chine. Skirt has wide lapped seams at side, and Crystal
Buttons. The smart Coatee is of Saxe Crepe-de-Chine, finished with ruched
Waistband and Cuffs of Ivorv Silk ; or may be had in Tan, Old Rose,
Silver Grey or Black 59/6
■
fM
■r..-
m*
m
I
m
m
Antfiomj,
Horderns’
c
ambri
Maidslone
/ vif - *P
Qxtortr
Sussex
Chfrmouft
The Cambridge. Maid’s Robe, in Crepe Voile, Saxe, with Cream Crepe embroidered Voile,
trimmings and dainty collar ; suitable for girls from 13 to 19 years—
Sizes: 39in.. 15/11; 42in.. 16/6: 45in., 16/11; 4Sin„ 17/6; 51in„ 17/11
The Maidstone. Maid’s Robe, in White Cotton Voile, richly trimmed with Irish Guipure
Lace Insertion; for girls 16 to 19 years — Sizes: 45in., 23/11; 48in., 24/6; 51in., 24/11
The Oxford. Maid’s Robe, in Natural Assam Silk, with dainty collar and basque effect,
exquisitely cut, simulated Black Silk buttonhole down right side to end of basque: suitable for
small ladies — Size: 51in. neck to hem, 47/6
The Sussex. Maid’s Robe, in White Cotton Voile, beautifully trimmed with Broderie
Anglaise and Irish Guipure; for girls 16 to 19 years— Sizes: 48in., 41V11; 51in., 42/6
The Kent. —Maid’s White Swiss Embroidered Robe, beautifully cut, dainty in its
simplicity; for maids 14 to 19 years — Sizes: 45in., 27/11; 48in., 28/11; 51in., 29/11
The Charmouth. Maid’s Robe, in Cotton Crepe, Vieux Rose, Grey, Pale Pink and Tan,
with effective Black and White pipings; the pipings on Skirt simulate the long Coat effect, suit-
able for maids from 14 to 19 years— Sizes: 45in., 12/11; 48in., 13/6; 51in., 13/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


*
7A
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges
“New Rival" 1
No black powder cartridges have so many strong
points to recommend them as Winchester “New
Rival.” Their uniform shooting qualities are due to
the fact that the shells are made of high-class,
tested materials, and loaded with the best brands
of powder, shot and wadding. The patented
corrugated head, and the solid, gas-tight, fire-
proof base construction used in Winchester
cartridges, coupled with a system o.
loading which gives invariable results, pro-
duces a quality that is unsurpassed.
Insist Upon Having Winchester, The
W Brand. Gold The World Over.
V,
ML OV
V
i y
$
77
%
II
1
w
<&}
X"
CT'
cs>
B.S.A.
Is your Bicycle built
GENUINE
BaSa Aa
FITTINGS?
of
V
B.S.A.
The public recognition of the high standard of
quality embodied in B.S.A. manufactures has
tempted unscrupulous persons to offer worthless
imitations as genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
It is therefore necessary to caution intending
purchasers of B.S.A. Fittings that none are
genuine unless they bear the Trade Marks —the
three piled rifles or letters B.S.A. —as illustrated,
stamped on each part.
as.A.
Remember it is not sufficient to find this mark on one, two,
or more parts. It must appear on EVERY PART specified
below: —
Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat Pillar Lug,
Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back Stay
Bridge, Hubs, Cranks and Pedals.
B.S.A.
Catalogue* and Full Particulars of all B.S.A Goods can be
obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
The Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.
4, Australian Buildings, Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLE3. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post iree.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <&. SONS LTD.,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
A lap of
luxury
Carefully planned, faultlessly
made and scientifically
suspended—the Brooks 8170
motor cycle saddle is a lap of luxury in which you can sit
with perfect comfort over the longest distances and the
roughest roads. The secret lies in the Patent Compound
Springs which take up all shocks without recoil. A large,
roomy, deep-sprung saddle.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
./
ENGLAND’S BEAUTY ACTRESS.
MISS AMY WILLARD,
ENGLAND’S
FAMOUS BEAUTY ACTRESS,
Writes
of the
Accepted
Nerve
Medicine
CLEMENTS TONIC
Miss ( Amy Willard, who starred in Australia under the Willoughby manage-
ment in “What Happened to Jones” and other popular plavs, is recognised as one
of the prettiest actresses upon the English stage. Her opinion of Clements Tonic
is of importance to the profession, especially to those members new to the
Australian climate.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD.
“The Australian climate affected me so that I suffered from weakness
and general ill-health.
“A leading member of the Australian stage told me to take Clements
Tonic. The result was sound, refreshing sleep and sounder nerve.
“To anaemic and weak-nerved women, in my opinion, based on
personal experience, this is a splendid medicine.”
If taken in time and consistently, this Medicine makes Loss of Sleep and Rf'sh
Sick Headache, Poor Appetite, Weakness, Biliousness and Constipation things ot
the past.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
A 1 the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hair*
call for
Is an adequate food—a real nutriment
ROWLANDS MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
TEN DAYS? FREE TRIAL
■ Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
' Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry F/yero
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS .
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
i Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
1 Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
Ilatest
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
AGENTS
J^ re L5 nd acce ssories half usual prices.
wanted in each district. Write
at once, using sufficient ; ostage,
for Fro 6 Art Catalogue and out
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for
VAL. D. COLE,
LARGE STOCKS ON
MEAD
Book Arcade,
HAND.
CYCLES—
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CARTRIDGES
are the most reliable
in the world and the
best value.
‘ELEY SMOKELESS’
A Cerise Cartridge, loaded with
Eley (42 gr.) Smokeless Powder and
1 j oz. of shot.
ELEY UNIVERSAL’
A Light Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 Drs. T.S.
Black Powder and
oz. of shot.
n
m
m
mm
m
m
m
mm
m
m
m
m
ELEY
Cartridges
contain the
standard
loads of powder
and shot as
marked on boxes.
Shooters should
beware of a l cartridges
the loads of which are
Hot specified on boxes.
Sold by all G unmakers and Dealers.
Full particulars of Eley Cartridges from
A. ADAMS
420,GeorgeSt., Sydney, N.5.W
WHOLESALE ONLY
ELEY BROS. LTD., LONDON
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
5
HO3S
IRISH.!™
is •s.* * * .:.u,.Thi»'"
~|M»
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
be; t Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Cougli9
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “BonningTon’s” of 40 years fame.
Bonninciws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from harmful narcotics.
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 <a 2/6.
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
«5
IRISH
Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total’ y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
. In £ antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
cq -’ dept. market street, Sydney, y. s.w.
TRAGIC END.
Sudden Death as Result of Burst
Varicose Veins.
A COMMON OCCURRENCE.
<*• The above is not an unusual headline S»
in the daily newspapers, and in nearly
every instance the tragedy could have been avoided,
except that traditional belief in man’s incompetence
had been responsible for misguiding the victim at a
time when the proper relief could have been availed
of and all danger avoided.
The Booklet on Varicose Veins and Ulcers published
by the Vecsey Varix-arium, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney,
if carefully read by any sufferer from this unrelenting
complaint, will quickly convince the reader that the
old belief is founded purely on superstition, combined
with the failure of the old school of medicine to cope
with the trouble.
Varicosity is a subject discussed by many, but
entirely misunderstood, and it remained for an
enthusiastic and persistent layman to discover the
treatment that would eradicate it. In this booklet
the subject is fully explained, and more can be
learned about the disease by an hour’s perusal of
this valuable little booklet than can be learned from
weeks of delving into medical tomes.
Every person who is afflicted should at least have
a copy. It is most enlightening, and gives useful
hints on how trouble may be avoided, even though
treatment for the elimination of the trouble is not
undertaken.
Scores of successfully treated cases are cited to
prove the arguments put forward, and it is only rea-
sonable to suppose that with old traditions knocked
on the head, and modern remedies given a chance,
that what can be done for one person can be as
readily done for another.
If space permitted, dozens of letters like the fol-
lowing could be quoted here: —
Mrs. P. A. Kelly, Nareeb Nareeb, Vic., wrote
recently: “I did not write you further, as I had
paid my full fee for treatment, and found myself
cured at the end of the course, as you promised
should be the case. Also, I desired to wait a while
to see if the results justified your claims as to their
permanency.
“Nothing now remains to show where the bad
veins were except a slight discoloration of the skin
at the spots where the patches were so bad, and I
can only thank you sincerely for my great cure and
wish you continued success in your splendid work.”
One noticeable feature amongst sufferers from this
complaint is the strong tendency of the afflicted per-
sons to put off seeking assistance, principally because
in the primary stages there does not appear to be
any danger, and later on from advice obtained
amongst friends “that there is no cure.” It is these
causes that send so many old people to the Institute
when they hear finally of the Vecsey Institute method
—poor old sufferers who have for years never known
a minute’s respite from aggravating, and, in thou-
sands of cases, agonising pain.
Could the fresh victims of the complaint only see
a few of these, and realise what is in store for those
who delay, wild horses would not restrain them in
their desire to get all the information available on
the subject.
The Vecsey Varix-arium offers every assistance,
free of charge, to those who would learn all about
this wonderful method, and no sufferer should be
without their book on bandaging and the care of
varicose veins. A copy will be posted free to any
address upon receipt of a 2d. stamp. (2804)
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
u
ml
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
I —have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
mide by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies 1 Jin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM. B
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON. NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “1 was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but after taking your treatment for 1!, days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
2- l-
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Hava yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
seud you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. On you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTER FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Ihe'SUndard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
in um sine* 1406.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask : your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S- GREEN. 210, Lanibeth Road, London, Eng.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Smith’s Life-Work.
The miserable bodysnatcher !**— Professional inter-
I tection made by attempted Australian statesman,
during working hours and in the ordinary way of
business.
A large, dull man was Caesar Smith
Who represented Monolith.
He believed in ev’ry party myth ;
Each had the loyal aid of Smith.
His vote was never once in doubt;
Few were the things he talked about.
For Caesar Smith had quite a lack
Of notions. So he just sat back
And looked as wise as any owl;
He was a slow but wary fowl.
The years went by, but Caesar Smith
Scarce said a word for Monolith.
Meanwhile he cut vile Labor’s throat
By sawing at it with his vote.
’Twas noble work, but Caesar he
Gained by it scant publicity.
One had to search through Hansard for
The pars wherein Smith used to pour
His pint of knowledge. Monolith
Got little chance to read of Smith.
Till he began to specialise
In interjections—sudden cries
Of Lib’ral rage, designed to blast
And ridicule on Labor cast.
A heap of shots went wide, but Smith
Shed glory on glad Monolith
When he designed one graveyard taunt —
A fierce gibe guaranteed to haunt
A man throughout one passing year,
And tickle ev’ry Liberal ear.
Then Smith sat back. His work was o’er,
And Monolith could ask no more.
He’d done his best. He did not fret;
That was as near as he could get
To stateinanship. For years he drew
His handsome and unfailing screw.
There came no kick from Monolith ;
They knew they’d got the lot of Smith.
N.S.W.
INCURABLE UNDERTAKER.
Perjury.
He (Judge Box) regretted to say that the crime
of perjury was far too prevalent in Victoria. It was
a dreadful crime. —Daily paper.
Truth is hard and rusty; Life’s a heavy job;
Hear the springs and axles scrape, and
squeak, and sob ;
Make the wheels go smoothly and the miles
slip by
With an application of the oily lie.
Stop the waste by friction. Ease the en-
gines’ strain ;
Broken parts can never be replaced again.
Heed no moralising. Wink the other eye.
Lubricate where needed with the easy lie.
Death’s foul blow is softened —Fate’s worst
wounds are naught
When the kindly liar anodyne has brought.
First aid for the wounded! Someone’s
always by
Ready with a potent, chloroforming lie.
N.S.W.
PERJURER.
A Prison Dialogue.
“Stone walls do not a prison make,
Nor iron bars a cage” ;
Your hallowed soul shall yet awake
To claim its heritage.
Yet this I know, oh, poet queer:
Stone walls and bars still keep me here.
Your body does not count for much,
So long as thought is free.
Now, who amongst us all may clutch
That straw of liberty?
What use that thoughts in Heaven dwell,
If feet still tramp the narrow cell?
In fancy you may see the skies,
The mountains and the trees,
The morning, golden with surprise,
The shimmer of the seas.
Whate’er avails the landscape fair
When we are breathing prison air?
And you have mem’ry at your side —
The thoughts of days agone
Like loving servitors abide,
And leave you hoping on.
But there are also bitter things —
Ah, Memory too deeply stings!
And you your freedom will regain,
With strength to live anew
Your dreams —the dreams that were so vain
Ere Folly fettered you.
Ah, strength! Ah, strength!—its hollow
sham!
For strength has made me what I am!
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.
His Visioning.
He walked the narrow and the noisy street,
And ever as he walked the dream
recurred :
His soul dragged slowly on with shackled
feet,
And dirge and requiem alone he heard.
All big with promise rose the glorious dawn ;
All dark with broken hopes the sun went
down,
An outcast soul in sombre gloom withdrawn
He wandered lonely through the brazen
town.
At night (his cares forgotten) regally
He treads on purple, crowned with dreams
of bliss.
Large laurels wreath him; yea—sublimely
he
Rides triumphing through proud Perse-
polis.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


COSY SUITES
Comfortable and Durable.
A SERVICEABLE DRAWING-ROOM SUITE, upholstered in rich tapestry, in
any color desired. The Frames are made of thoroughly seasoned wood, fitted with
extra-strong springs, and beautifully polished.
No. 2076.'-7-piece Suite, consisting of 1 Couch. 1 Gent.’s Arm Chair, 1 Lady’s
Easy Chair, and 4 Small Chairs. Frames stained Walnut. Superior Workman-
ship throughout. Upholstered Tapestry and Flush, £5/10/-; Genoa and
Plush, £6/5/-
FURNISH YOUR HOME COMFORTABLY AT MARCUS CLARK’S.
We carefully pack and deliver FURNITURE to the Sydney Railway Station and
Wharves FREE OF CHARGE.
Our Large Illustrated Furniture Catalogue will be forwarded to any address on
application.
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
Railway Square, George Street, SYDNEY
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
DlNNEFORDS
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
CRACKAJACK Senior
BUILT
TO
BEAT
THE
BAND
Crackajack Mouth Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES.
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds, \!»
y ~ Senior 20 ~ 2 - Boss Cracker 20 ~ 1 -
~ Junior 20 f , 1/6 Crackajack Cadet 20 ~ 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Sole Agents: ALLAN & CO. Pty. Ltd..
Melbourne. Adelaide. Bendigo. Geelong.
v »o
Vi
*sn$
CONNOISSEURS
GOOD GARDENS
will result from
GOOD WATERINGS
with a
GOOD RUBBER HOSE.
WATERSHED
Red Rubber
Garden Hose
is the best you can buy.
Made in 60ft. lengths.
x 3-ply 9d. per ft.
30ft., complete with fittings. . 24/3
60ft., complete with fittings.. 45/6
fin. x 3-ply 1/- per ft.
30ft., complete with fittings.. 31/9
60ft., compile with fittings.. 60/6
%
5^
f.&b-
-&
m
m
We also manufacture three other grades of Black Rubber Hose. Particulars
and prices are in our new Summer Catalogue. Send for a copy. Post Free.
“Watershed” Hose is obtainable from all leading Storekeepers throughout
Australia, or direct Lorn the Manufacturers.
Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, SYDNEY
Also MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
hi-noleum
WEa«,U
Bright Floors
If Bright Floors appeal to you Shi-
Noleum is the Polish you should use,
it is so easy that in half the usual
time your Linoleums have that beautiful
h glvclass finish which makes the home
look so attractive.
Order a Tin to-day, one trial will prove what
we claim for it.
LANDIS —
GRINDING MACHINES
Ho. 2 Universal Grinding Machine.
Landis Grinding Machines are designed along the most, approved lines ; they are
capable of producing the highest grades of work economically, and are built to with-
stand the mpst severe service. There is ample weight in every part to withstand
vibration ; spindles are carefully and accurately finished by grinding; bearings are
adjustable for wear and fully protected against water and grit; flat surfaces are
scraped to surface or proof plates ; all finished surfaces and bearings are protected ;
ways of carriage and bed are self-oiling. All accessories are quickly and easily fixed
or removed.
There are many exclusive Landis features in this machine —profit-earning conveni-
ences you should investigate.
Write for details.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA,
BENSON BROTHERS
51=53 DRUITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
60 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE.
We carry a Full Stock of Engineers’ Machine Tools.


The Bulletin
Registered at tiie General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 34.—N0. 1700.
THU USD AY. NOYEMB RR 6. 1913.
Price Uu.
THE SCULLING CHAMPIONSHIP—POLITICAL STYLE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Mnsgrave and McLeod Streets.
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street. Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly .. .. .. 0 13 6
Quarterly . . .. . . . . 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Corresponacnts to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and > to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone py name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and. where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political. Social or other Articles. Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects. and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 1000 ivords. are specially acceptable), Paragraphs
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return cdl unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless th'se
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
■without stamps for return it. will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS- io distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
,tumorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
jn acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any pic'ure
which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid for as a
suggestion cnly. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg: and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver.
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., l/ljl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street.
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego.
Cal.; Bay City News Co.. San Francisco: Quaker
Neirs Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.: It'’. E. Lenehan, 585
891 h Street. San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago. U.S.A. |
F.c.tVT.-rlgnace Horn. Port Said. Egypt.
H ONO Kong.— Brewer and Co., Redder Street.
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — ll'. G. P. Prrrra. tG Baillir Street. Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
■The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. II 7 est Australia. Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
i/C> per doz, nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6*in.
x Vtin.. and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea. Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom. All Sea
Route. IGoz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Sjoz.
to 10oz., Sid.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, ioz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
jTuT^xxlleZzfii,
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER G. 1013.
THE PROPHET OF LEAST
RESISTANCE.
There have been large prophets and small;
fat prophets (a few) and lean prophets
(very many) ; slow prophets, like Moses,
who had to get an agent to speak for him;
and flying prophets, like Elijah, who ran
half across the kingdom in front of Aiiab’s
chariot at the breaking of the drought.
There have been thick prophets, and
prophets whose tale was very thin. Morose,
hairy prophets have been known who lived
in caves and were suspected of a fly-whisk
or caudal appendage; and as a set-off the
world has produced cheerful prophets who
joined in the annual picnic of the congrega-
tion along with Bunstruggle, the High
Priest, and Plate, the deacon. Also there
has never any lack of the prophet who
took the line of least resistance, and the
name of one“-of them in the present genera-
tion is HiGGfe. Speaking in the House of
Representatives a few days ago—it was the
dnr when the inconsequent Ryrie called him
'•You miserable body-snatcher”—about the
absurdity of providing for the defence of
Australia, this seer sowed the bad seed as
follows: —
1 propose to prove that we are going too fast, par-
ticularly in the matter of naval expenditure. Certain
people take the view that the awakening of China is
fraught with danger to Australia, and that we are
also in danger from Japan. 1 believe, however, that
we have no reason to anticipate danger from Japan.
In the first place, that country, 1 read, is over-
burdened with debt. Authorities tell us that an
attacking force must be five times as strong as a
defending force. That was about the position in the
case of the South African War. The Boer forces con-
sisted of about 50,000 soldiers, and Great Britain
had to send out 250,000 to defeat them. That war
cost the Old Country £.211,000.000. Is Japan in a
position to send an attacking force of 250,000 men
to Australia, or to find £211,000,000 to provide for
the cost of an Australian invasion ?
Then, again, I would ask whether it is likely that
the civilised races of the earth would allow Japan to
take hold of Australia. Have not Germany, France
and the United States of America, as well as Great
Britain and other nations, interests in Australia
which they would hasten to protect the moment they
were threatened ? I propose to show why we have
no right to incur this large expenditure in respect of
naval defence. Capitalists— most of them in London
—consisting not only of Anglo-Saxons and Celts, but
of people of all nationalities who have settled in
England, have interests in Australia, as well as in
other parts of the world, and they should be called
upon to pay the money necessary to maintain the
Navy if they want it.
All of which is very comforting, but —!
And again but — !
The first element in this consoling theory
is that Japan is overwhelmed with debt,
therefore it can’t attack Australia. Yet
Japan owes only £5 per inhabitant, and
though it is a poor country it is steadily
growing richer. Also there are ways of
getting out' of debt in a great emergency.
Austria, after it had carried the heat and
burden of the Napoleonic wars, went insol-
vent twice, and the final clean-up was at the
rate of about 2d. in the £. Russia solemnly
filed its schedule in the ’forties of last century.
Some of the State Legislatures of the U.S.
simply told their creditors they would see
them hanged first, and paid nothing at all.
The creditors are still hanged first. Spain
repudiated at least two debts bodily, and
compounded on one or two more, and once
it didn’t pay the composition. And there
are many other examples, including that of
Italy, which once levied so much income-tax
on its creditors’ dividends that the dividends
fell very considerably. A country with a
sufficiently good army and navy and a suffi-
ciently bad conscience can always get out
of debt if the circumstances call for a big
effort. There isn’t the slightest reason to
suspect that Japan or any other existing
Great Power would contemplate these
drastic old methods, still it isn’t well to rely
too much on a nation’s debt (a debt of £5
per head) as a guarantee of its peaceful-
ness. To get down from the wholesale to
the retail, the _ late Henry Parkes was
almost always in debt, but his peacefulness
was an unknown quantity.
Then, again, there are States which go to
war most cheerfully when they are most
dead broke. When the original Napoleon
first came to the front he had charge of a
force that was almost naked and shoeless,
ill-fed, ill-armed, wholly unpaid, and backed
by a Government which nad practically
given up printing paper money for want of
funds with which to buy the paper and the
ink. For many years he not only made war
pay for itself, but made it show huge profits.
He not only stole the land and money of the
conquered States, but he embezzled their
pictures, statues and furniture. The Mah-
ratta Confederacy in its great days always
expected its generals to make conquest pay,
and also to declare a dividend when they
came home. It struck the beginnings of
ruin when it sacked its greatest general for
failing to declare the usual dividend, and put
the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his place.
If it hadn’t carried the principle of cheap
war to an extreme it might be a flourishing
State to-day. It is a common saying that
Turkey’s chronic impecuniosity never pre-
vented it going out and killing somebody.
When it was poorest it had the greatest
desire to feel in the pockets of the dead for
any loose assets. Japan is a country which
conducts war on fairly inexpensive prin-
ciples. It eats and drinks cheaply, builds
its ships cheaply, and pays amazingly low
wages. It has 230.000 men always under
art"", and they could probably live as easily
in Sydney as in Tokio. It has a great array
of ships, and they could probably get coal
at Newcastle for a lower figure than at
Kobe. There are certainly difficulties in
campaigning with little money, but the thing
has been done, and it may happen again.
The Boer war, on which Higgs, M.H.R.,
bases his theory that an attacking force
must be five titnes as strong as a defending
one, is a tired and threadbare circumstance
nowadays. Because Australia sent a few
contingents to the Boer scrap, certain poli-
ticians have a habit of regarding it as the
whole history, narrative and embodiment of
war —and it isn’t. Who the “authorities”
may be who support his amazing view
Higgs doesn’t say, but it would be inter-
esting to know their names. Assuredly in
the successive conquests of England by
Romans, Saxons, Danes and Normans the
invading force was the smaller. The British
conquered India and Burma with mere
handfuls. The Saracens built their empire
against immense odds. The Japanese
weren’t anything dimly resembling five to
one when they seized Korea, nor were the
Germans in their invasion of France in
1870. The “authorities” from whom Higgs
thinks he got his comforting information
appear a dubious lot. and on a rough esti-
mate three-fourths of the evidence of his-
tory is against them. Certainly in a rare
case like that of the South African annoy-
ance. when the assailant is a tortoise and
the defendant is an ostrich for speed, and a
very hard-fighting bird at. that; when there
are no bloated coastal cities to defend, and
one slouch-hatted rider can defy all the
fleets on all the seas; and the wealth of the
country is so widely diffused that there is
no one supremely vulnerable spot—in such a
case it may require even a great deal more
than five-fold odds to effect a conquest. But
the instance is one in a thousand.
*■ *, * • * *
Finally, there is the comforting assurance
that we owe so much money that our old
friend Three-Ball must rush to our assist-
ance—just as he didn’t rush worth a cent
when Russia and Austria and France and
Turkey and Greece and Spain and Portugal
and Peru and Guatemala and Honduras and
Argentina, also Virginia, North and South
Carolina, Georgia, Florida. Alabama, Mis-
sissippi, Louisiana and Arkansas, to say
nothing of Jeff Davis’s Confederate States
and Hayti and other institutions either
broke, burst, compounded or repudiated.
Certainly an heroic attempt was once made
to collect a bad debt from Mexico, and the
attempt ended in the execution, of one em-
peror and the downfall of another. The
facts of the case are: (1) Tiiree-Bael
doesn’t care for fighting. It pays him better
to write off the bad debt and keep on at lus
business of lending money on the bill of
sale. (2) Though Australia owes money to
Great Britain, France, Germany, the
United States and other countries, still it
probably owes money to only one person out
of a hundred in these countries, and the
other 99 have as much objection to shedding
their blood in defence of their capitalist as
Higgs, M.H.R., has for shedding his gore
on behalf of the Van Diemen’s Land Co. or
the Daniel Cooper estate. If some hostile
person wrecked the U.S. Meat Trust’s in-
terests in Queensland quite a number of
U.S. citizens would rather throw up their
hats than go to war. (3) Governments
hate to take unlimited risks in defence of a
limited amount of money and they loathe
distant adventures, because they never know
which immediate neighbor will bite them in
the tail while their forces are away. All
these are reasons why we can’t rely too
strongly on our good creditor, Tiiree-Ball,
to defend us. Australia owes a lot of
money, but it would require to owe ten
times as much before it could depend on an
overwhelming force of armed pawnbrokers
to come to its assistance. And if it owed
ten times as much it would be broke, and
the pawnbrokers would .be more likely to
fight against us than for us.
And the Prophet of Least Resistance,
Higgs, M.H.R., reasons on another false
basis, though it is certainly a very common
basis. If a powerful enemy, such as Japan,
tried to annex this thinly-peopled and ill-
defended country at a time when Britain
was otherwise engaged, it can’t be imagined
that it would commence operations by
threatening all our foreign creditors, scat-
tered among the Great Powers of the world,
with confiscation of their Australian inter-
ests. That theory rests on the assumption
that our only possible assailant is an armed
and embattled lunatic asylum. The hostile
person would be much more likely to begin
with a strenuous assurance that all foreign
property would be rigidly respected, and
that the interest on the foreign debt would
be paid in full, even if it was necessary to
enslave Higgs, M.H.R.. and set him to earn-
ing money as an animal of burden in the
shafts of a cart to provide the funds. The
hostile person would, in fact, put his name
on the back of our bill, and thus claim to
have rather improved the security, and a
lot of our creditors would probably consider
the claim valid. He might placate foreign
capital by promising to cut the tariff down
a good deal, which, with cheap Asiatic
labor, he could do without suffering any
injury. He might make promises of rail-
way concessions. Then he could do a good
deal in the way of allaying the fears of the
local capitalist—who isn’t a frenzied fighter
in any case —by expounding to him that his
interests would be respected if he kept quiet,
and that he might even be rewarded, after
the annexation, with an unlimited right to
oppress Higgs, M.H.R., whereas if he re-
sisted, the very worst might happen to him.
These promises might not be all kept in the
end, but there would certainly be no lack of
friendly assurances while the trouble was in
progress.
It is because of considerations like these
that The Bulletin believes in a strong
local defence, strengthened by an influx of
food white population. It doesn’t regard
Britain as a reliable bulwark; that country
is too far away, and has too many responsi-
bilities of its own. and some of these re-
sponsibilities are liable to blow up at any
moment. It has no faith in the vision of
the international pawnbroker coming with
arms and banners and the unexpired pledge
ticket to our defence. There is a shred of
plausibility in the proposition that the work-
ing class shouldn’t be called upon to fight,
and that the big capitalist, as the man with
the largest interests, should carrv the gun.
But if he is entrusted with the gun he may
fire it backwards. Again, unless the big
capitalist is a verv different individual from
the one pictured by ITtggs and his friends,
he wouldn’t carry anything unless driven to
it. His first idea, if the matter was left in
his hands, would probably be to make the
best possible terms for the protection of bis
own investments, and to ask the enemy if he
would kindly enslave the Trade Unions, and
rpgard their forced services in the light of
an indemnity. For these and other reasons
this paper has its eye on Higgs as one of
the prophets whose feet are set on the prim-
rose way—which way is mostly downhill
•with a big drop ’at the end of it.
G. H. REID AND HIS MISSION.
G. H. Reid has come to Australia intent on
getting his one-time colleague, Prime Min-
ister Cook, to give him a further term as
High Commissioner. It will be a calamity
if he succeeds. What Australia wants in
London is a young and energetic man with
the capacity and vitality to push its inter-
ests commercially. The need is particularly
urgent since there is a whole herd of rival
countries, all well represented, pressing tire-
lessly for the means to develop themselves.
The re-appointment of Reid will signify five
years lost to this country in a commercial
sense: and it will mean a further term of
humiliation for those who want to see Aus-
tralia represented in London with a certain
amount of dignity.
* * * *
The Australian who gets all his knowledge
of the High Commissioner and his office
from the local daily papers, and rarely looks
at a London publication, can form no opinion
that is worth anything of the light in which
G. H. Reid is regarded outside the Common-
wealth. The correspondents of various
morning papers are member's of hisrpstaff.
They are excellent and picturesque'irriters.
But in the nature of things they can’t ex-
pose their chief when he errs, and they are
bound to turn the limelight on him whenever
there is an excuse for doing it. The only
other public evidence as to his usefulness (or
otherwise) is furnished by returned travel
lers, most of them fervent liberals, who have
been his personal friends for years and have
been assisted socially by him in England
Thev would not be human beings if thev
testified to his detriment. The consequence
is the spreading broadcast of the grotesque
illusion that Reid has been a stupendous
success in London and an asset of great value
to his adopted land. The facts are depres-
singly otherwise. He began his London
career with a couple of blunders, which in
the eyes of Britons of position were un-
forgivable. The venue was the Royal
Academy banquet, which is the oratorical
function of the London year. The first five
minutes of his address were devoted to a
fulsome eulogy of Edward VII. it i s
imperishable convention of London Society
that the King’s name shall not be mentioned
publicly, except in connection with baldly
formal toasts. Just as in an Indian native
regiment the white officer can do no good
with his men if he is ignorant of their
racial and religious prejudices, so in Eng-
land the overseas Commissioner, or pro-Con-
sul, or ambassador labors under a hopeless
handicap if lie does not know the finer points
of the social game. It may appear ludi-
crous, but there it is. Reid went on to ac-
claim the Royal Academy, and, apropos, he
inquired in pained tones: Why not an
Acauemy of Industrial Art? lie had not
heard, apparently, that such an institution,
had been in existence at South Kensington
for many years. The knowledgeable people
who were not scandalised were amused, hut:
all agreed that persons holding ambassadorial
rank did not do such things.
From then onwards the press ceased
to regard Reid as other than a sort
of joke. One other move, and one
only, was made by Fleet-street to give
his reputation a chance of arising from
its ashes. The occasion was an address
which he was billed to deliver on Australia.
It was felt that he was bound to say some-
thing of worth on this subject. Most of the
big dailies arranged to give him full reports.
Whether his nerve was destroyed by his
primal failure, above mentioned, or whether
he has nothing new or stimulating to say
about the Commonwealth, will never he
known. Anyhow, he weighed in with such
a string of elaborately-guarded platitudes
that the papers did not give him more than
a dozen lines. Since then, despite the non-
sense about his prominence and popularity
that has appeared in the Australian press,
he has been, in every serious sense of the
word, a business and political cipher in
Britain. He suffers incurably from that
slackness which makes life’s spade-work re-
volting to" him. In fact, it is his
detestation of the studv of details in any
shape or form that has been to blame for
most of the errors into which he has crashed.
The disaster that befel him recently in Ger-
many is a striking case in point. As part
of his emigration campaign he formed the
idea of alluring German emigrants to Aus-
tralia. To this end he had shoals of attrac-
tive pamphlets printed in German and circu-
lated through the Fatherland —circulars, ex-
plaining what a uniquely fascinating and'
rich and healthful land Australia was. Not
till the damage had been done did he dis-
cover that, in Germany, where every unit:
of the population is needed for defence pur-
poses, it is an offence to do anything calcu-
lated to unsettle the mind of any German
in such a way as to dispose him to leave his
country. The German authorities won’t in-
terfere, of course, if a citizen wants to_ emi-
grate, but they draw the line at permitting
foreign agents to persuade him to do so. There
were all sorts of diplomatic difficulties to be
surmounted before the High Commissioner’s
office was suffered to withdraw its egregious
literature and promise not to offend again.
George Reid is 69 years old, and a tired
man at that. Providence gave him the
brains to be a big man, but always he has
been too indolent and too ready to grasp at
the immediate benefit —or what looks like the
immediate benefit —and let principle go. The
only real qualification he had in the latter
part of his life for the job to which there is
imminent peril of his being re-appointed was
his capacity to deliver after-dinner speeches.
The London Morning Post reported" the
other day that after some big function*'or
other the High Commissioner for the Com-
monwealth called for “three cheers for the
whole blooming Empire.” Also, being asked
by a pressman what he had done to make
the King laugh so on the same .occasion, he
explained that he had persistently addressed
the monarch as “your Honor.” This variety
of cheap, not to say bankrupt wit, goes down
fairly well at festivals where the majority
have been transformed into temporary lati-
tudinarians by generous supplies of food and
wine. But in any other environment
such waggeries produce a deplorable effect.
In arty case the life of a Commissioner for a
toilsome country like Australia cannot
bo one long after-dinner speech. There is
all sorts of other work to be done. In the
case of G. H. Reid it has been, and must
always be, neglected. His Department puts
to shame, in the matter of muddle and the
like, the War Office itself. Nothing of any
business value is ever accomplished or ever
will be. since, constitutionally, the cluet
is too tired. Australia never gets an adver-
tisement through him that is not a flagrantly
w T rong sort of advertisement. The Common-
wealth needs a representative who will
make fewer jests and do more work; one-
who is young enough to acquire fresh ideas
and energetic enough to carry them out:
and no perverted sense of loyalty to aD
old political ally should keep Cook from
looking for such a man.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Nothing Being Done.
The Australian Parliament is doing no busi-
ness. It has passed sufficient in the way o*
Supply to provide for its own salaries, btu
otherwise it might almost as well be deao,
save that the dead are quiet and respectao i.
and don’t dance or swear, and when tne
worm drops in to lunch the guest is treated
with dignified hospitality. In the House or
Representatives the Liberals, or Tories, or
whatever they may be called, have a prw
carious majority. In the Senate the Labor
party has a solid majority. The object
the crowd which has the Ministerial saian e »


Extraordinary Announcement to Agents.
Christmas Edition of
The Bulletin, 1913.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the
CHRISTMAS NUMBER of “THE
BULLETIN” will be an EXTRA
and SPECIAL ISSUE.
Date of Publication: December 13, 1913.
This SPECIAL NUMBER will con-
tain high-class Stories, Verse and other
Literary Contributions from foremost
Australasian writers.
The Illustrations will be supplied by
the popular Bulletin artists, and
others in the front rank of the artistic
world.
The Ordinary Issue of THE BULLETIN
will be published on the usual date.
Agents are requested to note
that, as the Christmas Number of
“The Bulletin” is now going to
press, the orders that reach us from
now on will be treated in order of
priority.
and the official dignity is to hang on to its
gauds and its remuneration. The purpose
of the other crowd is to acquire the gauds
and the remuneration. Parties being so
evenly balanced it is impossible, under the
present system, to do any real work, because
the scramble for the honors and the hono-
rarium occupies all the time. The great
business of the Cook party is to get some
kind of a Bill —almost any kind of foolish
or insane Bill —through the House of Repre-
sentatives, so that its rejection by the
Senate may furnish reason for a dissolution
of both Houses, by which the Liberals may
profit a little and can’t possibly lose much.
The urgent business of the Fisher party is
to prevent any Liberal Bill getting through
the House of Representatives and going up
to the Senate, so that there may be no
deadlock and no double dissolution, with a
possible diminution of the Fisher majority
in the Senate. The Opposition had a moment
of great joy when it shut up the Australian
Legislature for a day through Page, the
Opposition Whip, forgetting that, in case of
the irrepressible Bruce Smith being absent,
he had prdmised to attend and “make a
House.” It had another hour of exuberance
when it defeated the Government owing to
certain Government supporters being away
helping to bury Knox of the Hat. Some
arrangement about “pairs” had broken down,
in a rather confused fashion, and the burial
of poor old Knox enabled a snatch vote to
be secured against the Cook Government. It
didn’t damage the Government, and it didn’t
hurt Knox, who will never wear his Hat
any more, but the country’s business was
hung up once more. Yet the success wasn’t
wholly one-sided. The Cook push came into
its own on the night when Higgs was sus-
pended for reflections on the political morals
of his opponents, while the brilliant and
eloquent Ryrie called him a “miserable
body-snatcher,” without producing the body
he had snatched. The country’s business
was again suspended, of course, while Higgs
was being removed, but the Ministry, which
had been having a rather bad time, enjoyed
its half-second of glory. The only affair
which doesn’t get any satisfaction or tri-
umph or glory out of all this riot is the
poor old country. Presumably it has some
work which it wants done, else why should
it pay all these politicians to work for it?
It is aware that for every measure
there must be an honest and fairly intelli-
gent majority one way or the other, if the
majority could vote according to its con-
science, without taking any account of party
interests, and without fear of putting its
crowd out of office and letting the other
crowd into office. If a Government was
elected for the life of a Parliament, and
was fixed for that term, then Page, M.H.R.,
would find no joy in securing a victory while
some of the Government men were attending
Knox’s funeral, and Ryrie would have no
mirth or satisfaction in calling out “body-
snatcher” when the Opposition force was
reduced by one through the suspension of
Higgs, whose body was then being snatched
by the Sergeant-at-Arms. One of the worst
features of Party Government is the way it
leads members to make remarks about other
members’ bodies.
«.
The Position in Maoriland.
Maoriland, under the influence of the
I.W.W. (Independent Workers of the
World), has an industrial trouble on hand
which involves more conversation than any
other trouble with which it has been
afflicted for nearly a generation. The I.W.W.
is a sort of international organisation of
industrial anarchists, and it sees red all the
time. Through seeing red too long its head
has apparently taken fire. It is allied with
all manner of downtrodden peoples in remote
lands, and it uses their form of language,
just as if Maoriland were bossed by a Czar
or over-run by Macedonian brigands. Pos-
sibly it lacks a sense of proportion, or of
time, or space, or something. In short, the
I.W.W. represents the irreconcilables —the
rebels in the hills. Its motto is: “To Hell
•with agreements,” and that makes negotia-
tion with it difficult. The general view
which it seems to hold is that no faith need
be kept with employers, just as Alva held
that no faith need be kept with Protestants,
and William lll.’s Parliament considered
that the worst kind of treachery to Catholics
was honorable and justifiable. The I.W.W.
isn’t a very great institution in Maoriland,
but, like the handful of desperadoes who
made the French Reign of Terror, it wields
a very considerable influence by reason of
its vigor, just as an infuriated bulldog may
do when it attacks a procession. The big
unions in Maoriland have developed a tend-
ency to withdraw from the Arbitration
Court, so that they won’t be bound by legal
awards, and may rush into battle at any
moment. That is the I.W.W. attitude.
The men who are running the big strike at
Wellington are under an agreement not to
strike, and the contract has still a few
weeks to run, but the paper bond doesn’t
seem to amount to much. The idea of en-
tering into a new paper bond under the
rules of the Arbitration Court —which prob-
ably wouldn’t amount to much more than
the old one —was being flatly repudiated by
the strikers at the time of writing,
and in consequence diplomacy is hung
up. There is much talk about the em-
ployment of troops and special constables
on one side, and of the upheaval of 10,000
or 15,000 armed toilers on the other, but so
far people haven’t been killed, or towns
destroyed, or trains wrecked. The Premier
hasn’t been slaughtered, as was President
Madero of Mexico; nor has the leader _ of
the insurrection fled for refuge to a foreign
warship,. like General Felix Diaz, of the
same worried country. As for bailing up
foreign tourists and putting their feet in the
fire to make them disclose the location of
their valuables, nothing of the sort has yet
been attempted. There has been much froth
on the row at Wellington, and comparatively
little beer underneath —at. least, compara-
tively little of what Mexicans and Mace-
donians and Mirdites and Mohammedans
wduld call beer. Still the trade of
Wellington has been held up, and the
■capital is beginning to find its vic-
tuals expensive. And the trade of other
ports seems likely to be held up. For a;
countrv which owes so much money abroad,
and which must keep on exporting wheat
and wool and meat and . cows -skins
and bulls’-innards and > ox-tail and rab-
bits and pigs’-trotters in order to pay
the interest bill, the partial stoppage
of trade is serious. Amid all the
clamor and the shouting it is rather difficult
to understand what the row is about, but it
is a nice row to contemplate from a dis-
tance.
«.
Concerning the Defence of the Pacific.
At last Maoriland’s naval policy, or what
purports to be its policy, is announced. The
main point about it is that there have ap-
been serious disagreements between
the Admiralty, the Government of M.L.
and James Allen, Maoriland’s Minister for
Defence. In the long years of the Seddon-
Ward control, a cash subsidy to Bull-
cohen’s navy was the settled policy; but,
in spite of this payment, the Admiralty,
while playing up to Maoriland’s display of
loyalty and fireworks, did not take the small,
far-away geographical dots seriously. As a
matter of hard fact, J. Bull was not in-
clined to take Australia seriously either,
until he saw that Australia was considering
whether it should take him seriously any
longer. Both Australia and Maoriland have
all along been more or less contemptuously
“managed” by the dear Smotherland. As
history goes, it is only yesterday that a then
coming man in the public life of N. S.
Wales, W. C. Wentworth, declared that
unless England’s treatment of the country
became more sympathetic he would urge the
colonists to revolt. Now, in this year 1913,
it seems clear that J. Bull is rattled as to
the defence of his scattered empire. He
has become so rattled, in fact, that he has
deserted Australasia as far as naval defence
is concerned. In 1909 a conference was
held in London between the Admiralty (or
British Government) and the “overseas
dominions.” It was then decided that a
certain policy should be followed, which
policy had for its basis, as far as the out-
lying branches of the empire were con-
cerned, a naval unit on the East Indies
Station, one in Australia (constructed and
manned by Australia), and one in Chi-
nese waters, the last-named to also
look in on Maoriland. The pawnshop bat-
tleship New Zealand was to be the flag ves-
sel of the China squadron. Hardly
had the delegates to that conference un-
loaded their optimism before Bull went back
on his word. The East Indies unit became
a mere dream or hallucination, the battle-
ship New Zealand was “borrowed” for Eng-
lish waters, and the partly-China-partly-
Maoriland unit, it now appears, is to con-
sist of the wreckage of what was hitherto
known as the Australian squadron—a most
unlovelv lot of vessels. Hereabouts we get
back to Maoriland’s part in the business.
When the Massey Government came to
power about 12 months ago the naval de-
fence scheme of the Loanly Islands was so
ridiculous that James Allen, Minister for
Defence, was hurriedly despatched to Lon-
don to protest. En route, Allen saw Sena-
tor Pearce, at that time Australia’s Minis-
ter for Defence, and, apart from supplying
more than a hint of Allen’s own views, the
meeting was significant. The Bulletin
will await in vain for a denial from James
Allen that he (and presumably the Govern-
ment he represented) was at that time
anxious for a White Pacific scheme of local
defence, meaning thereby a linked policy em-
bracing Canada, Australia and Maoriland.
With that in his mind, Allen went to Lon-
don and apparently was thwarted. If not,
he made, or the Massey Cabinet has made,
an unholv mess of things. The central fact
is that on his return from that special expe-
dition there was a mysterious silence as to
what exactly had happened. The policy
that Allen should have had in his gripsack
was .0. It was next hesitatingly announced
that a further communication from the British
Government was expected “shortly.” From
that it was to he deduced that Winston
Churchill and Co., despite the enthusiasm
of their expert advisers, were not now
enamored of local fleets. Why, how or whaf-
for remains to be seen. Anyhow. James
Allen —who was practically pledged to local
fleets, with a general organisation in the
Pacific, and who was, moreover, borne up
with sympathy for Australia’s scheme—has
been politelv shelved. It was impossible to
go back on him in the altogether, as it wer«,
so Premier Massey now announces that un-
less more satisfactory news drifts in from
London. Maoriland may start to build its
own defence ships next year or thereabouts.
Meantime. Bullcohen will lend M.L. a
training ship, and a naval reserve is to be
formed. Beyond that he is apnarently not
prepared . to go. Maoriland wanted more ;
but in response to its request for two war-
ships of the British type in return for an
increased subsidy of £150,00 annually, he
last month said :
At present they [ships of the Bristol type] would
be superfluous in Maoriland waters, as there are no
possible enemy’s ships of equal speed to be dealt with
there.
The statesman who is so unalert to the de-
fence isolation of the White minority living
under the dark shadow of Asia would be
better employed drawing corks.
The Striker in Brass Buttons.
A London cable mentioned a week ago that
“the officers of the P. and O. service intended
to discontinue their services until their
grievances as regards inadequate pay, inade-
quate provision for old age, and excessive
overtime were adjusted.” The Company
denied the story next day, but officers who
were in Australian ports admitted the truth
of it, and finally the following message
arrived :
The notices of resignation, from the service of the
Peninsular and Oriental S.N. Co.- —unless salaries,
hours and conditions generally are improved—in-
clude those of all the officers except the commanders
of six vessels, including the Malwa.
So, apparently, the belated kick of this
flagrantly sweated toiler has transpired at
last. The P. and O. and Orient mates,
or officers, as they prefer to be called, have
to sustain much frill for little money. Fifth,
fourth, third and even second officers are
paid pittances that an Australian mechanic
would sneer at loudly. The chief officer —a
middle-aged mariner, _ with an appalling
amount of responsibility on his shoulders
from time to time —may get up to £3OO a
year. The skippers earn between £6OO and
£909 per annum. > And there are no pen-
Now consider the other side of the
picture. The mate of a liner requires to be
an adept at his calling; also, a man of
character and of a certain amount of educa-
tion. Most of them have graduated from
training-ships such as the Conway, where
the fees are at least as high as those of an
English middle-class school. They have to
possess what are known amongst commercial
travellers ana the like as the “manners of
gentlemen.’’ Although, since the wreck
of the China, they have been discouraged
from fraternising with the passengers, yet
are they expected to answer queries regard-
ing the likelihood of the ship foundering, or
the possibility of the sea-serpent coming over
the side, in a style other than that of the
frank, hearty, blasphemous sea-dog of tne
old blue, or bilge, water school. In fact, the
better imitation a mate of the mercantile
marine can give of a naval officer, the more
acceptable he is to the directors of passen-
ger-carrying vessels. His security of
tenure is of the frailest. If a liner
grounds the man in charge is doomed, how-
ever little he may have been to blame. In
the case of the China, above-mentioned, all
sorts of persons who had nothing to do
with the unpleasantness were fired into the
chill waters of unemployment. The powers
of the directors of certain companies—the
P. and O. amongst them —are almost as
autocratic in regard to their officers as those
of the English Jockey Club are in regard
to professional horsemen. And they are not
left in idle abeyance. For example, a year
or so ago the chief officer of one of the big
I*, and O. ships on the Australian line went
ashore at Colombo after dinner. Now there
was specie aboard, and the skipper was also
ashore. Immediately on the ship’s arrival in
London the Chief was incontinently sacked.
That is to say, for one trifling lapke he lost
the results of years of faithful toil, and the
possibility of grasping the only position that
is worth while in the Service. Is it any
wonder that the distressed mariners are
fighting for a fairer deal with the only
weapon that presents itself? It is a mat-
ter of financial life or death to thd majority.
Not all of them, by any manner of means,
can look to become commanders. Failing
that, their best hope of evading an old age
of insolvency consists in wedding some wan-
dering heiress. But heiresses aye scarce.
Moreover, as a result of the higher educa-
tion of women, and similar pestiferous inter-
ferences with the established order of things,
the glamor of the maritime uniform has
ceased to be the matrimonial asset to its wearer
that it was. Furthermore, however beauti-
ful the mate may appear in the costume in
which he stands over the Lascar and in-
structs the latter, in what purports to be
his (the savage’s) native tongue, on the
question of brass-polishing, or what not —
however alluring he may be in such circum-
stances. he has a tendency, when driven to
don shore-clothes, to look hopelessly un-
glorious, not to say provincial. The result
is that the heiress gives him the chuck the
moment she sees him off his own quarter-
deck, and life for him becomes sable as
night, in a cash sense, once more. The
only solution of an intolerable position is a
fair living wage all round.
A Minor Political Matter of Some
Importance.
Should Wade blunder enough to shove the
present N. S. Wales Government back into
power, the latter is pledged to accomplish
one item which doesn’t draw any limelight,
but is, nevertheless, exciting sundry stock-
owners. After backing and filling 'for about
three years, the Government is Committed
(as far as politicians are ever committed) to
the abolition of Pastures Protection Boards.
It is intended to hand over some of their
work to the shire councils, and place the
purely veterinary and stock-inspection busi-
ness under control of the Stock Department.
The boards are about the last survival of the
propeny vote; hence, of course, the handing
over of any part of their business to the
common or garden ratepayers of shires, spells
ruination —as the Tory stockowner reads it.
Seeing that at present, in most i districts,
practically the same crowd are found on
both Shire councils and boards, the fear
seems exaggerated. But, whatever it means,
the handing-over of the stock-inspection
duties to the Stock office is a sound pro-
posal. The present system is rotten in prin-
ciple and liable to be exceedingly dangerous
in practice. It is the inspector’s duty to
keen an eye on diseased stock and outbreaks
of disease; but seeing that his bosses are the
men who own the stock that may be dis-
eased, and are in the country where there
may be an outbreak of disease, a zealous
officer may have the unpleasant duty of
bumping against his own directors-; and an
officer who isn’t so zealous is liable to let
things slide if his directors’ interests seem
to be threatened by action. Hence the wis-
dom of having these men independent of
local stockowners and responsible to their
own department. There is a rather horrible
casualness about stockowners where animal
disease is concerned, and there is no reason
why the public should have to risk the con-
sequences.
«.
The Crowded Cornstalk Madman.
The old bad mad-house days are evidently
still abroad. Maoriland has been holding a
Commission of Inquiry into alleged cruelty
to patients in an asylum at Sunnyside, Can-
terbury. Plain manslaughter in the case of
warders has been more than hinted at, and
general neglect has been openly charged.
The denials on the part of the authorities
have been emphatic, but the finding of the
Commissioner is not yet available. In New
South Wales the Government itself is accused
of disastrous neglect, not by the rela-
tions of patients, but by the Inspector-
General of the Insane. In his report for
the current year he makes the following re-
marks :
The hospitals have been in a chronic state of over-
crowding for some years n0w.... Such a state of
affairs will not conduce to the health of the patients,
and the institutions will be obliged to become
mainly places of confinement, and their value as
curative institutions be diminished. .. .There is an
excess of natients over accommodation to the extent
of 588. The matter of finding room for this excess
number has now become one of extreme gravity, and
it is of the utmost importance that steps should be
taken to effect some relief in this direction in the
immediate future. The necessity of this being done
was recognised by the Public Works Committee as
far back as 1909, when they agreed to the erection
of two new hospitals, one at Morisset and one at
Orange. The institution at Morisset was com-
menced, but works were stopped last year;; and with
regard to Orange, beyond drawing up plans and
passing the authorising Act, nothing has been
done. ...Even if steps are taken imlhediately to
proceed with new buildings, they will take two or
three years to erect.... In the meantime, it may be
fairly anticipated that the number of patients under
care will be increasing at the same rate as in pre-
vious years, or even more rapidly, and the position
will be even more serious than it is at present.
It can be taken as a long-odds bet that when
the head of the department goes that far in
addressing the Minister, the conditions of
the madhouses (they can’t be termed hos-
pitals) are in need of urgent scrutiny.
From a shipmaster who wanders up and
down that coast: —
At last a ship has hit the Proudfoot shoal in broad
daylight! Fortunately the weather was fine, assist-
ance was got promptly by wireless, and eventually
the Houtman floated off, apparently undamaged.
The removal of the Proudfoot shoal lighthouse is
an old sore to the regular navigators in those waters,
and a nightmare to the newchums. How the shoal
is dreaded may be judged by the fact that some
years ago a steamer from England, loaded with rails
for Cairns (N.Q.), faced the long journey round
Australia and the stormy seas of Cape Leeuwin rather
than take the risk of passing through the western
approaches to Torres Strait, where Proudfoot is the
worst of many dangers. The tides in the locality
are most treacherous, a mile an hour north or south
being an every-day experience, and the direction can
only be found by frequent observations for latitude.
In thick weather the only proper course to follow
when approaching this reef-strewn locality is to
anchor until the weather clears and the position is
found by observation.
The lightship was removed in 1904, and since
then numerous appeals have been made to the
Government to have it replaced, but without avail.
Queensland has been guilty of criminal negligence in
its cheeseparing policy of reducing expenditure in
this direction. I urge the Commonwealth not to
follow that bad lead.
If a steamer strikes the shoal in the North-West
season nothing can save the vessel from breaking up,
and great loss of life is then practically certain.
In such circumstances it was a crime to remove the
lightship, and not a day should be lost in restoring it.
From a man who knows Asia:—
I read that Senator Oakes said, at a “complimen-
tary banquet” to Willie Kelly, that “the time
would come when we would have to cry a halt” in
our Defence expenditure. That same day 1 read what
Major Eben Swift, of the General Staff, United
States Army, had to say concerning “The Chinese
Army: Its Development and Present Strength.” It
should be borne in mind that the arrangements are
in the hands of that same Yuan who, between 1903
and 1906, formed, armed, equipped, disciplined and
brought together for manoeuvres six army divisions,
comprising 80,000 men.
“ iVith a three-year term of enlistment,” says
Swift, “one-third of the army will be discharged
each year, and replaced by new men. These will
be taken from the million and a half of youths who
reach 20 years during the year.... When discharged
the men go to their homes, and three years are
spent in the first reserve, three years in the second
reserve, and three years in the national army....
This means 150,000 trained and drilled men added
to the reserve each year.”
By all means, with that sort of neighbor looking-
this way, let us follow Mr. Oakes’s hint and “cry-
a halt,” more especially as Cook’s Government has-,
undone much of the- little that Fisher’s crowd did!
to induce settlers in the North —notably by cutting;
the freezing works at Darwin off the estimates..
While the doddering Liberal party is tinkering withi
National Defence, against which it has always set
its face; while Millen is busy pinning useless pea-
cock feathers on the tails of Australian jackdaws
and while Cook is shouting wildly about importing;
more experts to waste precious time, “China has:
made plans for military schools, and machine-shops
and cartridge factories in each province.” Eighteen
of them.
And Swift’s summing-up is pregnant: “Whatever
shortcomings we may find in this Chinese army, we
cannot forget it is ideal in many respects. The
Chinese soldier has few needs, is obedient, and is a
fatalist by nature. His daily life would be a trial
and a hardship to almost any other soldier. He
subsists on little, travels long distances, and seems
to be immune to those common diseases which have
destroyed many armies.”
In conclusion, let me throw at Australia the
words of an almost-forgotten Chinese classic, Tichc
Liang, quoted to the Chinese Throne in 1906::
“Though all under Heaven is at peace, if the art-,
of war be forgotten there is peril.” The Chinese-
Throne did not take the straight tip offered in that
case, and even Australian politicians probably know
what happened to the Chinese Throne.
♦
The blessings of Freetrade continue to re-
sound from Britain, and Cobdens soul goes
marching on. The report of an inquiry by
the Board of Trade into the earnings and
hours of labor of the people who never shall
be slaves shows that, in a typical week of
full employment in the staple industries,
6,334,627 workers earned front 9s. 3d. to
275. 3d. each. For the men alone the pay
ran or limped from 9s. 3d. to 345. 4d. But
345. 3d. is affluence. Taking a- typical week,
the Board of Trade found that 51 per cent,
of the men in the hair. trade were earning
less than 20s. a week; in the jute trade, 49
per cent.; in the linen trade. 44 per cent.; in
fustian and cordcutting, 23. per cent.; in
other textiles, 22 per cent.; in the hemp
trade, 22 per cent.; in the silk trade, 19 per
cent.; in the carpet trade, 19 per cent.; in
the cotton trade, 16 per cent.; in bleaching,
printing, etc., 16 per cent.; in woollens and
worsteds, 15 per cent.; and in the flock and
shoddy trade. 15 per cent. And here is evi-
dence that Brother Cobden was the founder
of the White Slave business. Fifty-one per
cent, of the women employed in the ha : r
trade in Freetrade Britain were entered up
as earning less than 10s. a week; 47 p°r
cent, in fustian and cordcutting, 47 per cent,
in the hemp trade, 41 per cent, in the linen
trade, 38 per cent, in the silk trade, 32 per
cent, in small wares, 27 per cent, in bleach-
ing and printing, 18 per cent, in lace, 18 per


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA,
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From M/6 Day;
3 Guineas Week.
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, trv Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness; and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN !
"WHERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
QR EAT COBAR, LIMITED, COBAR.
COBAR, COBAR GOLD, AND CHESNEY MINES.
COMPETENT MACHINE MINERS WANTED.
Average Earnings of Contract Parties last three
Months:—
Stoping, per shift, 15/-
Development, per shift, 20/1.
Good Board and Lodging can be obtained within
few minutes’ walk of mines, at 20/- per week. House
rents average about 10/- weekly, bread 3d. 21b. loaf,
meat lowest rates in New South Wales, supplied from
the Company’s Bakery and Butchery.
Ample water supply, good school, good, dry, healthy
climate.
Apply—
GREAT COBAR, LIMITED,
COBAR, N. S. WALES.
The Famous PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES BIDIiEys PICTCKE
CENTRE.
COLONIAL T«
n*x continuous iim]
fl 'i V.
COLONIAL.
CRYSTAL, PALACE.
COlf
\ EWORLD wMOT
bsSßEkm
■i m
jjflafiaitt
t —j
i
EMPRESS.
Famous the World over for their L,U*XFRioiTS APPOINTMENTS.
SHOWING ONLY NEWEST 8 BEST PHOTO PLAYS.
Popular Prices —3d. to 1A
Continuous —11 a.m. to 11 P' m '
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co., Ltd.
cent, in other textiles, 15 per cent, in carpets,
14 per cent, in hosiery, and 10 per cent, in
woollens and worsteds. Still, six or seven
shillings a week is better than nothing. In
1909 there were 2,076,316 paupers known to
the Board of Trade. The fellow who wrote
ihat every crowd has a silver lining over-
looked that little lot.
A recent conversazione tendered to Willy
Kelly, the Little Minister of the Federal
Government, was enlivened more or less by
a professional comedian. Unfortunately for
the doting lady-electors of Wentworth, no-
body. had given the jester the tip to temper
the joke to the feathered voters, so he got
off one or two good things—but things of
the sort that no lady may laugh at when
another lady is present. Though somewhat
shaken, the feathered voters agreed, never-
theless, that Willy was “a dear” which
seems to be a correct diagnosis of Willy’s
trouble.
“Pink Tape”: There are ructions and
ballyhooley in the N. S. Wales Public Ser-
vice. as a result of the P.S. Board’s crusade
against undue overtime and similar fees.
Some heads of departments have been rak-
ing in currency at a rare rate for doing odd
official jobs after 4.30 p.m., and their ex-
planations on the carpet have not tended to
mollify the Board, nor cause it to swallow
its insinuation that all has not been square
and above deck. Of course, nobody has
carpeted the Board and asked it why it
paved the way to the objectionable business
bv its cheap-wages policy. Nobody’s busi-
ness is sadly neglected these days.
A really pleasant “drunk” (English
variety) has been before Adelaide police
court. “Not aggressive,” said the constable
when cross-examined ; “just drunk in a quiet,
gentlemanly way.” The P.M. talked of a
small fine, but defendant protested. He was
a respectable man, he claimed, and was not
drunk. He always took three bottles of
whisky a day, and could stand it. He was
a military captain, and was “going Home”
in March. Till then he could take care of
himself. And the Court was so impressed
that it let him off —“but don’t do it again.”
"I shall do it as often as I please.” said the
Captain haughtily, and left. The imper-
tinence of these blawsted colonials !
Listen to John Madden, orating to the
glory of Bent at the unveiling of the deplor-
able statue: —
Although he began in the very humblest way
he had managed by his acumen, his energy and
knowledge of affairs, Which so often had pulled him
through, to become a wealthy man. Yet he fell on
the Flodden Field of ’92 and ’93, with many others.
It was said that there was the end of him. But he
was not that kind of man; he was undaunted and
wholly undismayed. He had begun by taking off
his coat, and he took it off again. He laboriously
and earnestly beat himself up enough wealth to
enable him to come again to the service of his
country, and to confute those who had said that
there was an end of him.
The allegation that Bent —the blind, roaring
bull of the land boom —lost all his money
and earned another fortune within eight
years by bogging in with his coat off, is
hardly less untrue than other allegations in
defence of that ugly public character. Bent
went into temporary retirement with avail-
able means to “pull round” when land values
should return to normal, and other falsely-
depreciated investments should buck up
again. The fat man is represented as toiling
artlessly in his shirt-sleeves to accumulate
fresh capital. How much capital can a fat
old profligate earn by honest toil in eight
years? Out of politics as in politics, Bent
throve by his impudence, and nobody should
know that better than Madden. The
Brighton statue, anyway, was erected to the
politician—Thomas Bent, Premier of Vic-
toria and ex-Speaker. In both of those capa-
cities Bent was a disgrace. In public he
was a log-roller, jobber and “tactician” of
the deepest dye. In private his conduct was
scandalous. His whole life, in fact, was a
shocking example. Yet when an effigy of
this awful man was mounted on a pedestal,
the clean-living Madden spouted about him
as an object for emulation. No doubt it was
his business as Lieut.-Gov. to do so. A vice-
regal personage occupies a position
where he is required to tell the untruth
about most things—especially such things
as the late Tom Bent.
A month ago Tiie Bulletin received
numerous newspaper cuttings of an adver-
tisement, purporting to be from the S. M.
Herald, for a typiste who was wanted to
“travel India and the East.” Native ser-
vant, complete outfit and other attractions
were offered. Application by letter, with
photo and various personal details (such as
height, age, religion and personal appear-
ance) were to be sent to an address in
India. The Bulletin, which suggested
that inquiries should be made regarding the
advertiser, now learns that the advertise-
ment was not printed in the S. M. Herald,
and sincerely regrets that it connected that
naper with the advertisement. From the
days of the original John Fairfax, the
Herald has had strict rules regarding the
character of its advertisements, and re-
serves and exercises the right to censor them
rigidly. The Bulletin feels that it owes
an apology to a paper which steers clear of
such doubtful announcements. Wherefore it
withdraws that part of the story and offers
this apology accordingly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Jansen.
utat Majesty's Quinlan Grand Opera Co.
Palace "Barry of Ballymoore.”
Adelphi “For the Term of His Natural
Criterion “Within the Law.” [Life.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric i
Colonial Continuous Pictures.
Empress /
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc
Olympia ) ... ~ n . .
Glaciarium I ' Vests
MELBOI’RXE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Arcadians.”
Princess’s “At Cripple Creek.”
King’s “A Day at the Races.”
Royal “A Butterfly on the Wheel.”
Majestic Amalgamated Pictures.
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Bijou “What Did Tompkins Do?”
Auditorium John McCormack.
Verdi’s greatest opera, Aida, showed the
Quinlan Co. at its best. Amongst the prin-
cipals the only exception to this high stan-
dard was Jeanne Brola, as the Ethiopian
damsel. She was too shrill in her efforts to
beat the orchestra, and Act 3 supplied her
only pleasing contributions. At this crisis
she walks out with her young man, Rad-
ames, on the shores of the Nile. The or-
chestra and the male chorus (the latter
with early Sphinx bonnets on their heads)
were magnificent. The curtain glides up
on the first scene immediately after an ex-
quisite whisper from the fiddles has deep-
ened into a warning growl from the whole
team. Voghera was in command of this fine
performance. Verdi repeats in a similar
strain the tones of a cathedral organ—a
wonderful piece of orchestration —to bring,
down the curtain in the final scene. Aida*
and Radames are buried alive, while the
Sphinx-bonnets of the male chorus and the
feather fans of the female chorus waggle
overhead. They die hard. Radames
(Maurice d’Oisley), singing to the heavenly
music just described, lives about one second
longer than Aida. This favoritism to a
tenor is part of the inexorable tradition of
grand opera. Radames, though occasionally
overwhelmed by Voghera’s department, was
mostly satisfactory. Even his surfing cos-
tume (Act 1) was in good taste. The King
of Ethiopia (W. J. Samuell) was a pale
buff understudy of kings as we see them at
La Perouse camp. The rest of the La
Perouse contingent was inky black. Aida
was a shade more sunburnt than her father.
Edna Thornton, the Amneris or Miss Phar-
aoh of the cast, gave the finest vocal and
dramatic performance of the evening. The
King of Egypt (Charles Magrath) occasion-
ally lapsed into intelligible English. But
he was pleasingly inarticulate in a massive
voice that seemed to come from the bottom
of an Egyptian sarcophagus. The High
Priest of Isis (Anderson) looked like the
first Plymouth Rock or one of the early
Methodist brethren. His long, lank, black
mop was combed all over his head after a
pudding-basin clip. His voice is so impres-
sive that it sits on his chest like a clap of
thunder, and rarely gives way to anything
so frivolous as mere words. The stage trum-
peters were the most uncertain quantity in
this evening-out with Aida and her young
man.
The first production in Sydney of Puc-
cini’s “Manon Lescaut” was so reminiscent
of Puccini that one met its music half-way
like an old friend. But the story is poor,
and not worth the fine orchestration. Manon
(Jeanne Brola) is the Flying French-
woman. She has the instincts of a mono-
plane. She elopes with lover des Grieux
(tenor d’Oisley). leaves him for rich-man
Geronte, and flies from him back to des
Grieux. She is still flying in Act III —this
time, per convict-ship to America, whither
she incites the distracted des Grieux (who
deserves a better girl) to go too. In Act
IV the flight has tamed down to a limp;
yet Manon is still egging on her tenor to
fly as fast as his stout waist and starvation
will permit. They then die to slow music.
Lack of space forbids any attempt to write
their epitaph beyond the one line that the
stress of Manon’s songs is too great for
Jeanne Brola. “Carmen,” with Edna Thorn-
ton as a doubtful blessing in the name part,
was remarkable for the success of Spencer
Thomas as the love-tossed corporal. Don
Jose. After Thomas, came Graham Marr’s
dashing Escamillo. The dandy bull-fighter
was a strapping specimen of a Seville mata-
dor. He sang the famous Toreador song in
the approved fashion, with one eye on the
conductor and the other on Carmen. Edna
Thornton can stand in a corner (if she has
an hour to spare) for beefing or butchering
this part. Gladys Ancrum (Mercedes) may
take another corner, and Alice Prowse
(Micaela) a third. The chorus, which gave
its worst performance this season in the
first act. may crowd itself into the fourth.
“The Flying Dutchman” may be divided
into the Dutchman (Parker), the Norwegian
skipper Daland (Magrath), Erik a hunts-
man (d’Oisley), the nice girl Senta (who
falls in love with the devil-doomed Dutch-
man —Perceval Allen), the helmsman, and
the spinning chorus (2nd Act). After this
the audience falls back on the orchestra un-
der the remarkable Eckhold. Wagner puts
the hiss of a hurricane and the roar of an
angry sea into two-thirds of the orchestra-
tion : the story of the chivied Hollander’s
life and final dive into the trough of a heav-
ing cardboard breaker—his ship lit up with
red lights to show him the way to the bot-
tom —is told in every bar of the music. Per-
ceval Allen and Parker shared the vocal
honors of a good performance.
* * * ♦
Of the other new things of the week.
“Samson and Delilah” suffered by compari-
sons. Edna Thornton is a good-enough De-
lilah, but sfie isn’t the one- or at most two-
part Cisneros. Costa was Samson, in a
mouse-colored wig instead of the usua,l gin-
ger locks. Believing, no doubt, that Delilah
couldn’t understand English, he sang in the
Philistine tongue, one or two words of
which, however, are curiously like Austra-
lian. When he wasn’t too clamorous he was
“SAMSON AND DELILAH ,” AT HER
MAJES TY’S, SYDNEY.
The Primate Wright of ancient times warns
Samson (Francis Costa) against X-ray shirt
and Tango damsels.
excellent. And, as usual, male chorus and
orchestra were excellent all the time. “The
Barber of Seville” was the light snack of
the week’s menu.
# * * *
The accomplished illusionist who sells
shares in a mere hole in the ground and
makes his patient believe he is a shareholder
in a gold mine is looked upon coldly, while
the poor Fiji nephew has to escape by the
back door of the pub. Yet Jansen, at Syd-
ney Royal, is allowed to deal peacefully in
deception and take in hundreds. It seems
unjust; also, it seems to suggest that, after
all, the gold-brick merchant supplies one of
the permanent needs of humanity.
❖ ❖ *
“Within the Law” is still within the Cri.,
and likely to remain so while boom business
continues. The advertisements, which speak
very well of the show, mention that the
present is its seventh week.
* * * *
“Barry of Ballymoore,” Allen Doone’s
porous plaster at the Palace (Sydney), is
billed for another week. On. the 15th
“Molly Bawn” will be given a brief recall,
and the season will close with the presenta-
tion of a play new to Australia, “The
Rebels.”
Marcus Clarke’s “For the Term of His
Natural Life” is the cause of the latest
riotous conduct at the Adelphi. This bel-
lowdramatic version follows the book for
the most part, but loses sight of it towards
the end end wanders round to find a happy
ending for everyone but Captain Frere, the
Commandant. This, of course, serves two
purposes: the hero and the heroine hadn’t
to be drowned, and consequently there was
no need for a shipwreck scene ; and it was
the means whereby the world was rid of a
villain, which is the aim of every bellow-
drama. Taken all round, there is no reason
why this version shouldn’t further materi-
ally expand the Adelphi treasury. Anyway,
to start with, there, was an overcrowded
house on Saturday night. As for the char-
acters, there is little fault to find with them.
George Cross gives a very even representa-
tion of good Mr. Rufus Dawes, and Miss
Vera Remee is equally successful as, Sylvia.
T. W. Lloyd (Capt. Frere), Frank Crossley
(Rev. Meekin) and Miss Muriel Dale (Sarah
Purfoy) all call for a good word. Of the
others C. Taylor and Miss Fanny Erris, as
Gabbett and “the Crow.” the convicts, stand
out most prominently.
* * ❖ *
The Tivoli this week depends on much the
same company as it had last week, plus
whatever help Flynn and McLoughlin, pur-
veyors of dances and other gyrations, can
give ; but as that pair have been here once
before, the programme begins to wear a
frayed look. Of the bunch these call
mention: The Mullers, hoop-spinners- Bell
ora; Gene Greene, endurance rastimer ■
Doody and Wright, and Cooke and Rotherts’
•fa sjc
Ragtime being all the go, the discerning
management at the National (Sydney)
serving it out hot and plenty. Likewise
grand opera being to the public taste iust
now, chef Ben Fuller provides it in “tah
loid” form on his menu. Or vou
can make an animal of yourself ‘or
comedian (plain or fancy), juggler (un
jugged, so far, but the luck may change) or
musician (scaled). Next week there will
be something new. There generallv is a t
the National.
“The Black Diamond” was the Crystal
Palace’s best attempt this week ; also it' was
the best attempt it has made for several
weeks. The chief attraction of the film a
very well-got-up Pathecolor. was the leopard
hunt in Central Africa —ending disastrously
of course, for the leopard. The management
was at the time of writing holding out pro-
mises to have the Melbourne Cup pic-
tures showing by Wednesday night. What
punters are looking for is a show that will
give them these things on Monday night.
The American people who made their first
Melbourne rise with “The Grafters” at the
Bijou, are now grafting some more at the
King’s, in a revel described as “A Pay
at the Races.” The whole performance
is better dressed and generallv less
inexpensive than “The Grafters”' was.
Otherwise it is much the same collection of
vaudeville “turns”—dialogues and ragtime
songs by the principals and fleeting inva-
sions by the chorus —with a thread of plot
as thin, as a spider’s web. Sometimes even
the spider seems to have struck work.
The most notable “turn” last Saturday was
a reckless song by a young man whose
confederates came bustling from the audi-
torium under circumstances likely to pro-
duce a panic. Yankee notions in entertain-
ment are usually harmless, but this might
have resulted in a rush for the doors and a
lot of sudden death. No other incident was
exciting. Nevertheless, an audience that
found entertainment in moss-grown jests,
fun in the flowing patter, and humor in
anything, was delighted with “A Day at the
Races,” which can be described as simple
piffle for crude people, strengthened here and
there by droll absurdities that move even a
mourner to smile aloud.
* * * *
The same small Hebrew (Le Blanc) and
his inseparable partner, the inflated Dutch-
man (Yack), come and go as before. Miss
St. Claire is the same adventuress in league
with the same young man or one very like
him. Eugenie Le Blanc repeats her grn-
tesoue appearance and quaint dancing in a
more finished style, and Burgess is again the
tall, loose-limbed village policeman or some-
body to that effect. Miss Martin and others
are perhaps more frequent than before. All
these hard-working exponents of American
“THE BARBER OF SEVILLE ” (HER
MAPESTY'S).
Figaro (W. J. Samuell) tells Count Alma-
viva (Maurice d’Oisley) that Rosina will love
him in spite of his hat.
burlesque drop their characters and come
forward as irrelevant serio-comics when re-
quired. Also they do it when not required.
The amateurish ballet-chorus ladies appear
in kilts, bathing costumes, and an assort-
ment of other disguises; the lights are
lowered and raised on a seemingly ragtime
system when the songsters tune their lay;
the men refer to one another as “guys” ; and
the voices and the legs leave nothing but a
different burlesque to be desired.
For one more week “The Arcadians” will
give full satisfaction to unenlightened vis-
itors at Her Majesty’s. To the earlier
admirers of this charming musical play
the performance seems not so much


SARTO.
INJUNCTIONS AGAINST PASSING OFF.
LATEST CASE.—SCHWEPPES v. O’CONNOR.
In the Supreme Court, Queensland, before his Honor Mr. Justice Real and a jury of four.
(See Brisbane Couriers, August £7 to September 13. in which an Injunction was granted.)
During this case, which lasted 12 days, the following evidence was given, showing the
health-giving properties of Sarto and the amount of Sarsaparilla contained therein.
“George Alexander B.vru, member of the firm of Dixon and Byrn, assayers and
analysts, of Sydney, deposed that he had made analyses of a bottle of ‘Sarto’ and a
bottle of ‘Sarsa.’ He found that ’Sarto’ contained 11.47 per cent, of solids, .108 of
similicia, and the balance consisted of water and a small quantity of alcohol. ‘Sarsa’
contained 11.15 of solids and .006 per cent, of similicia, and the balance consisted of
water and a small quantity of alcohol. There was, therefore, eighteen times as
much similicia in ‘Sarto’ as there was in ‘Sarsa.’ Similicia was the active
principle of sarsaparilla; it was a medicinal tonic. There were other properties
of sarsaparilla of medicinal value, but the active principle was similicia.”
Mr. Feez: “How does ‘Sarto’ compare with ‘Sarsa’ according to your analysis?”
—“There is a finer quality of sarsaparilla in ‘Sarto’ than there is in ‘Sarsa.’ ” “Is
it correct to say that some sarsaparilla root may have no similicia at all?”—“Yes.”
“What does the presence of .108 per cent, of similicia indicate to you?”— “That
only the best sarsaparilla root has been use<J in the preparation.” “Is that a
large or a small quantity for a drink of that kind?” —“A very fair amount.”
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
a disappointment as a natural result. Ex-
pectation didn’t go high enough for realisa-
tion to fall far short of it. As regards Miss
Vining’s cultured singing, though, there is
no room for cold disparagement to come in.
** * *
Till Friday night the lord bishop of the
Rev. Cyril Mackay’s diocese will air his
gaiters on the Princess’s stage, and then the
wicked nephew will cease from uttering his
foul asseverations in a hoarse falsetto, and
“A MARRIAGE OF
CONVENIENCE
AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Marlon the Maid
(Mariantu
Caidwed)
the loose girls of the drama will give it best.
After Willoughby has withdrawn “Her Road
to Ruin” he will revive “At Cripple Creek.”
* =:< * *
At the Royal the Comte de Can-
dale continues to win his fair young
bride from the chevalier who had taken her
indiscretion for granted. But the last night
of “A Marriage of Convenience” is to-mor-
row (Friday), and on Saturday the prin-
cipals in that transaction will figure in a
modern divorce-court scene. “A Butterfly on
the Wheel” is to be staged, with Madge
Titheradge as the butterfly and Lewis
Waller as chief spokesman of the Wheel.
The money that was last week turned
from the doors of the Auditorium on John
McCormack nights will be duly received this
week if it gets there before all the seats are
sold. McCormack is on the crest of popu-
larity’s foamy wave, and Caruso would be a
comparatively small potato if he happened
in Melbourne just now. Resisting the temp-
tation to restrict himself to Irish ballads, he
put “Salve Dimora,” “Down in the Forest”
and “The Lord is My Light” into the pro-
gramme last Saturday, but his finest vocal
achievements count for less than his “Molly
Brannigan,” which, to be sure, is a work of
McCormackian art. When he implores
Kathleen Mavourneen to wake up, the whole
house can conscientiously lay its hand on
the place where its heart ought to be, and
vow that it never before heard so much
meaning put into that long-suffering song. To-
night (Thursday) the seventh concert of
the extended series will come to pass. On
Saturday the McCormack warbles again in
the Auditorium, and on Monday he will take
Miss Brannigan and Kathleen to Geelong.
* * * *
At the Bijou the question as to What
Tomkins Did is still under discussion.
Nordica commenced a quartette of fare-
wells at Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday.
She opened placidly enough in a bit of
Puccini, but became restless in Bemberg’s
“Chant de Bacchante,” and created such a
commotion in her few moments with Wag-
ner that her head-dress became disarranged.
Brunnhilde’s battle shriek was almost as
much a gymnastic display as a vocal exer-
cise. Still, Nordica has some good high
notes left, and in her last struggle with
Wagner—from “The Twilight of the Gods”
—she got through like a veteran who knew
every bit of the road. As usual, tenor
Dufault lavished his caressing attention on
some pleasant numbers; Franklin Holding
made his fiddle perform prodigies in two or
three Mendelssohn pieces; and pianist
Romayne Simmons presided over the concert
grand and smiled suitably at intervals.
* * * *
The Fantons, Reynolds and Donegan and
Miss Willette Whitaker are the most favored
for the Popularity Stakes at Melbourne
Opera House this week. Miss Bonnie Leon-
ard, of the Countless Smiles, still continues
the even tenor of her decollete , and Fi'ank
Fox is absorbed in warbling a lot of stuff
that sounds like the philosophy of an aban-
doned curate. Williams and Rankin and
the posy of Primroses are preparing to
trek; and Gene- Greene and Du Calion are
due next Saturday, Meantime Lillie Lang-
try is announcing herself in the old strident
soprano and several changes of raiment.
H= * sjs *
At Melbourne Olympia last week the
kinetophone got busy on an excerpt from
“Faust,” attributed by the programme to
W. Shakspeare. but probably the same com-
edy that the enterprising young Gounod set
to music. Edison’s clever but uncertain
instrument gave a very fair rendering of
the classic fragment, and was also moder-
ately successful in an alleged comedietta
and a vocal item introducing the Edison
quartette. The sensation of the week was
“King of the Air,” affording some gossip on
an aerial tragedy; while a matter of in-
dustrial interest was a film showing how the
far-famed delftware is potted and painted.
** * *
A biographic version of “A Message from
Mars” is now delivering a silent sermon on
Otherdom to the respectable patrons of Mel-
bourne Majestic. Charles IJawtrey appears
in his old-time part of Horace Parker, and
the film includes some alleged snapshots of
Mars which hardly help the story, but ap-
parently are chucked in to correct some
popular rumors on the subject of the planet
and its untidy inhabitants.
* :!: *
There was hardly a quorum present at
the Melbourne Athenaeum on Saturday when
Miss Phyllis Hopwood-Foldi commenced a
short season of light and inoffensive enter-
tainment. The plump lady was responsible
for the usual programme of songs and chest-
nuts, and showed that she is cleverer in
the cultivation of the latter vegetable than
in making a piano her accomplice. A lack
of personality or something is Miss Phyllis’s
shortcoming, especially noticeable in items
wherein she challenges the art of Margaret
Cooper, and brings all the dire penalties of
comparison on her fair young head. George
Cowley assisted with remarks in song; W.
T. Barker’s harp was heard occasionally:
and Miss Madeline Hopwood-Foldi tried her
voice on “Softly Awakes my Heart,” from
“Samson and Delilah,” and made a very
fair success of it.
Lewis Waller
(the Comte de
Caudae)shows
signs of his
dawning
jealousy.
The Anderson “Grafters” Co. gave a trial
trip to a “musical revel” at Adelaide Royal
before showing it during Cup week in Mel-
bourne. “A Day at the Races” (parentage
unacknowledged) is another of those
American concoctions that always seem
borrowed from the “variety” stage. It de-
pends largely on elaborate conventions. For
instance, a restaurant makes a rule that
anybody who sits at a certain table must
order champagne every time the bell is rung;
then one waits confidently to see innocent
lemonade-swiggers sit at that precise table,
and —-even after they have learnt the rule —
hit the bell countless times by inadvertence,
or even tread on it. There is a flavor of
Horse in the piece, and a racecourse crowd
“calls” a race all round the track in the
“Arcadians” manner. Dave Nowlin and
Gertrude St. Clair do some good singing, and
that fine low-comedian, Eugenie Le Blanc,
has a Baby Bonus song which succeeds in
being funny without getting vulgar. Among
other localised work is the song showing
(with copious illustration) how the girls of
various cities kiss. The verse devoted to
Brisbane is shockingly libellous. Brisbane
must have annoyed someone seriously.
A new “Dandies” troop is doing good
work at the Exhibition gardens in Ade-
laide. The city had a special regard for the
Dampier-Morgan combination of last season,
but is rapidly making friends with the
strong new lot Branscombe has sent along.
The Tivoli is good on the athletic side ; the
graceful trapeze work of Julia Gonzales has
been added to the easy jumping of Frank
Parish, and the dancing of the Golden Troop
of Russians is mostly a series of athletic
feats. Merian’s dogs continue to walk in
boots and enact a scandal in High Life. The
King’s puts up a Comedy with a London
reputation, “A Sister to Assist ’er,” and
throw's in a Crimson Ramblers crowd with
the Bletsoes at its head. At the Royal,
G.R.Q. Wallingford has happened at last,
with the usual immediate success. Hein-
icke’s orchestra has given its final Town Hall
concert for this year ; and a big Government
House fete comes into this column by reason
of a Delmar Hall concert, and a double per-
formance of “How He Lied to Her Hus-
band,” wherein Bernard Shaw burlesques
his own “Candida,” and makes the admiring
husband assault a poet for not passionately
regarding the wife.
Adelaide City Council, which mostly fixes
up these things in a friendly way, has de-
cided that Alderman Simpson can have a
clear run for the mayoralty on Bonython’s
coming retirement. He will be the second
mayor taken out of the batch of young sons
of well-known families who butted into the
Council about 10 years ago. Of the others,
Lav. Bonython has been mayor, Alfred
Roberts has dropped out, Frank Moulden’s
turn has yet to come, and John Baker re-
tired (hurt) four vears ago. after his ap-
parently clear path to the Chair had been
suddenly and successfully disputed by the
revived veteran Lewis Cohen.
AT POVERTY POINT.
E. J. Carroll, Queensland’s most enterprising
theatrical manager, is due back to Australia next
week after an eight months’ tour of America and
Europe. In that time he has booked some important
engagements, the most notable of which will probably
be an English co. to produce “The Rosary” and a
few other big bites for popular taste. The Queens-
lander is spreading his interests widely over Aus-
tralia, and will immediately get work on his return
upon the big “White City” venture at Rushcutter’s
Bay, Sydney, in which he shares responsibility with
C. Spencer, Ben Fuller and A. B. Davies. The
building of the “city” is approaching completion.
Carroll is also in J. and N. Tait’s undertaking to
introduce Harry Lauder to the Commonwealth.
“J.F.H.” (from London) : If I were asked for a
tip for Australian playwrights, I should say “Keep
a keen eye on the newspapers, jot down the sensa-
tions as they occur—the Sunday morning raid on the
Melbourne cafes and the pair of damsels who put
poison in the tea are a couple of examples—weave
them into a dramatic story, invent some comic relief,
distribute the mixture over three acts, and—then
find your manager.” That is how the Drury Lane
“autumn drama” is put together. It is always a big
success, and there is no reason why a local produc-
tion should not be similarly successful in Australia.
Says the London Daily Telegraph in opening its
two-column notice of “Sealed Orders”: “The func-
tion of the Drurv Lane autumnal drama is to crowd
into a few amazing hours a vastly magnified vision
of all that has been thrilling you in the cold print
of the newspaper.” There you have it. Now go and
do likewise!
“0.K.” : In England the touring “grand”-opera com-
panies are still alternating the old ballad operas with
“Tannhauser” and “Romeo and Juliet” and sich.
And still the wonder grows that no operatic manager
thinks of amending the libretto and rationalising
the song-words of “Maritana” and “The Bohemian
Girl.” They exist on their popular airs, in spite of
the absurdities which might be easily amended. The
same with “II Trovatore.” There seems to be a
deep-rooted belief that the old familiar, words have
become endeared to the public for evermore, whereas
the public, which is always changing, would soon get
used to newer and better words. The tunes by any
other name would sound as sweet. Why should the
Bohemian Gyurl always dream that she dwelt in
marble halls, when she might fancy herself on the
rolling deep? Every ancient melody will adapt
itself to better words than it was born to. AVhy, the
other week, at the Crystal Palace, Tetrazzini was
singing a version of “Home, Sweet Home,” from
which the old thatched cottage had been expunged.
Matheson Lang’s proposed tour of the Common-
wealth with a company of his own is now defi-
nitely postponed. He has, instead of coming this
way again, entered into partnership at the Strand,
London, with Louis Meyer, the lucky Hebrew who
made a big fortune out of “The Glad Eye.” Lang
will appear in leading parts, produce the plays, and
generally control the stage.
“0.K.”: Bill Anderson, who for some years has
alternated his output of awful English bellowdrama
with productions of milder Australian stuff, is now
running a musical absurdity at his Melbourne
theatre, and promises another Amurkan extrava-
ganza, “The Land of Nod,” for Christmas-time.
Seemingly he is arriving at the conclusion that
crude, long-winded bellowdrama, written for the
utterly uneducated classes of Britain, cannot any
longer compete against potted film-dramas, rapid
in action and change of scene, finely acted in many
cases, and devoid of “comic relief.” The antique
Andersonian bellowdrama, which was out : Andersoned
by Marlow, has done its dash. It is has-fceened. The
potted picture-dramas contain all that was most
interesting to the multitude in those old, four-act
blood-love-and-thunder stories, whilst dispensing
with the conventional dialogue and stereotyped funny
business. First-class artists tell the story in dumb
show, and the photographer and film-faker supply
sensational effects which couldn’t possibly be intro-
duced into an articulate drama. Lately I saw a
JOHN McCORMACK
in the throes of
pathos.
picture play at Hoyt’s, in Melbourne —-one of the
non-Combine theatres. Made in Italy, where the best
film-mumming is done nowadays, its Australian
title was “A Leap of Despair.” And what was the
title act? The heroine (or a circus lady who looked
like the heroine) sat on a horse that stood quietly
on a narrow, swinging platform, 50 feet or more
above the arena, whilst fireworks fizzed around it.
Among the audience below a giddy lady was making
love to the husband of the heroine, who expressed
her despairing jealousy by turning the horse’s head
and making it step off the platform. Horse and
woman appeared to fall into the arena, and an in-
stantaneous change of picture showed them lying
on the ground, the horse motionless, the lady greatly
disarranged and damaged, but not dead. How does
the simple gymnasticism of “The Span of Life” or
“The Ladder of Life” compare with such a title act
as thatt The possibilities of actual stage-sensation
scenes have been exhausted; but to the faked pic-
ture drama anything is possible, including acting
which no Bland Holt or Anderson could afford to
engage. The picture drama spares its patrons the
foolishness of front scenes and the dreariness of
intervals between the acts. Best of all, it holds
its silly tongue.
Pelissier, founder of the famous London Follies,
left only £10.831. The smallness of the figure is
probably accounted for by the fact. that the Follies
did not draw regular screws, but dipped into the bag
for what they might happen to need—pr think they
needed.
“J.P.”: Lewis Waller made a brief bid for turf
honors a score of years ago, just after he had
played “Monsieur Beaucaire” at Liverpool. On
the advice of a leading Goodwood trainer he bought
a chestnut colt by Royal Kendal, christened him
Beaucaire, and later got some good trials out of
him. But in public the prad ran like a funeral
crock. Waller tells that he last saw the horse in
the shafts of a hansom in which he rode to Water-
loo —and missed his train. It was his AVaterloo
sure enough.
“C. Ockney”: Commenting on the slump in accept-
able plays in England—a slump which appears to be
getting chronic—a London daily of eminence bluntly
asserted a few weeks ago that it was due to the
fact that managers are quite unintelligent and in-
capable of spotting the right stuff. This half-truth
had, naturally, the effect of “drawing” the head of
the profesh—Beerbohm Tree. Speaking at a send-off
luncheon to Cyril Maude on his departure for
America, Tree, in his defence, rather succeeded in
giving away the show. After admitting that he had
refused “Kismet” (an ideal play for him and his
theatre, one would have, thought) and “Bunty Pulls
the Strings,” and had turned “the cold shoulder of
stupidity” to a suggestion by Bancroft that he should
revive “Diplomacy,” which is at present the success
of London, he remarked: “Perhaps I am betraying
a secret when I tell you that ‘Peter Pan’ was brought
to me. But I thought that the leading part was
unsuitable.” Oh, that leading—which should be
called mis-leading—part! Many people, I don’ t
doubt, would just as soon see Tree play “Peter Pan”
as “Mark Antony,” or “Ulysses” ; but the point is
that many a good piece is turned do-wn —Tree tacitly
admits it —because the actor-manager doesn’t like the
leading part. It matters not how excellent the play
may be if the leading role is “unsuitable.” Back
goes the MS. On the other band, if the part is all
right, though the whole may be rotten, up goes the
play, and, mirabile dictu, down go the receipts !
“Nutty”: It is true, as a Poverty Pointer said
lately, that robbery and murder incidtnts are cen-
sored from picture plays in Germany ; but it is also
true that the Gimlet Brigade of the Fatherland gets
full compensation in being permitted to enjoy
naughtier pictures than would be tolerated in any
English-speaking country. Some German Cinematograph
stories are just about the limit in salaciousness, yet
the censor sees nothing “dangerous” in them. Morals
are a matter of geography. What is chaste in Mar-
taban is crime in Pimlico, as Jonah (or it may have
been Barnabas) said.
“Way Verley Penn”: Tokio Town’s tour of the
Commonwealth (more or less) has just concluded at
Rockhampton (Q.), and the ghost walked gamelv
enough throughout the 6J months. The show has
to date appeared in only tw'o capitals, Adelaide and
Melbourne, but is to tackle Sydney under new man-
agement presently. In its 64 months of life no
fewer than five touring managers have been in front
of it, shouting volubly. The first was the late Harry
P. Lyons, who was also ahead of the first Japanese
village show ever seen in Australia.
“Screen” : The Saturday-night picture show attend-
ance in Melbourne is about 65,000. There are 57
regular, covered-in shows every night, besides
numerous occasionals and open-airs. Over 1000
people are employed directly, and an incalculable
number indirectly. In the matter of capital outlay,
£70,000 has been expended in hard cash on three
city theatres alone. The total investment would
probably be over £350,000. And still they come.
Two new theatres are to be built in Bourke-street;
one of them will start in six weeks, and will cost
£20,000. And a third is likely in Swanston-street.
The ordinary theatres and variety shows do not
hold more than 14,000. Where did the 50,000 go
before the pictures started ?
“Y.Z.”: Splendid films were taken of the Johan-
nesburg riots, but, so far, none of any consequence
have been shown anywhere. These films settled the
disputed point as to the firing of the first shot, and
were “very damning to the Government.” The fact
is the films have been “censored”; not in the
usual way, but in a much more amiable manner.
The authorities, having decided that it would be
“injudicious” to show the pictures, have bought
them in. The living picture threatens to be a living
witness who will make it difficult for Property to
keep up many of its favorite fictions. It is a dan-
gerous substitute for the film so sedulously drawn
over the public eye in the past.
Galsworthy’s latest play, “The Fugitive,” promises
to be his best-paying production thusfar. It features
a pretty woman who breaks away from a very decent
sort of husband because he has no physical attrac-
tion for her. “My marriage,” she says, “has become
the reconciliation of two animals, one of them unwill-
ing,” and the reconciliation grows intolerable. She
cannot find her affinity. She would live contentedly
enough with an idealistic journalist, but for the fact
that her husband would ruin him by making him co-
re. in a divorce suit. She decides she must earn her
own living, faces the necessity for “going gay” in
order to do it, and prefers to die. So she poisons
herself in the restaurant where strange men have
been accosting her. Apparently she never brings her
superior mind down to the idea of earning her living
as a lady-help or a missionary. She is the sort of
heroine whom Ibsen would have endeavored to
glorify. But Galsworthy neither defends nor con-
demns her. He presents the interesting lady, and
the men who have to do with her, as “simple facts” .
in social life.
“Norbell” : The Royal Dramatic Co. had exploded,
and Ginger Bowman and Dicky Harden were hope-
lessly stranded in Gastlemaine. They couldn’t even
finance a beer, and an unromantic but athletic porter
had unfeelingly booted them off the railway pre-
mises when they had tried to “jump the rattler.”
After much anxious debate, they decided there was
nothing else for it, so with melodramatic maledic-
tions in their mouths and nothing in their pockets,
they set out to walk to Melbourne, 75 miles away.
When they got to Kyneton they were savage and
desperate, and aching for a drink. Ginger sug-
gested the R.C. nresbytery as the likeliest spot for
unconditional charity, and they drew lots as to who
should tell the tale. Ginger lost. The evening
shadows were falling as Ginger accosted the black
figure that was pacing to and fro in the presbytery
garden. “I crave your pardon, Father, but we are
too indigent actors,” he began, in his best leading-
juvenile manner, and so on to the carefully-prepared
peroration. “Come inside,” said the genial Father
Doyle, “an’ let’s have a look at'"'the pair of ye.”
They entered the well-lit study. “Why, ye’ve both
been drinkin’, that’s what’s wrong With ye,” said
his Reverence. “Here, take a nip each,” and he
passed the decanter. Ginger and Dicky made a
poor pretence of polite indifference, but measured
out a pair of generous snifters. After some questioning,
Father Doyle gave them a shilling each, and directed
them to the Harp of Erin. “I’ll ring Fogarty up,”
said he, “and tell him ye’re to have tea, bed and
breakfast. Be off now, and come and see me in the
morning.” With joyous hearts Ginger and Dicky
departed. They were back again bright and early
next day, and the good-natured priest gave them a
lecture, a shilling each, and two second-class tickets
to Melbourne. They left the presbytery full of
gratitude and good resolutions, and two hours later
had sold the tickets to two swagmen for four shil-
lings, which were shamelessly squandered. During
this process Ginger acquired a black eye. Next
evening they were at AVoodend. Again they drew
lots, and again Ginger lost. They waited till it was
dark enough to hide Ginger’s damaged eye, and then
approached the blaek-eassocked figure "which was
pacing up and down the presbytery verandah. Ginger
began: “I crave your pardon, Father, but we are
two indigent actors” “What!” roared a sten-
torian voice. “We are two indigent actors,” Ginger
repeated mildly. “And I’m an indignant priest!”
roared his Reverence. “To the Devil with the pair
of ye!” Rotten luck! It was Father Doyle again.
Corson Clarke, who is battling in management at
Melbourne Bijou, has at least one female impersona-
tion among his repertoire of character parts. He
plays the terrible “cook lady” in “Whv Smith Left
Home,” which was the unfortunate Sally Booth’s
part when Willoughby produced the comedy here
years ago. Clarke talks of reviving the old comedy,
with himself as the lady cook.
(Continued on page 86.)


MEN’S SURFING SUITS—6I6.
MADE BY DAVID JONES.
Buy your Bathing Suit direct from the maker, and save
a profit. You get a Pure Wool, unshrinkable, strongly
and evenly knit Suit, and corectly shaped. Made on the
latest improved machines.
To he had in Navy with Gold, Sky, White and Red
Bands. Black with Purple Bands —or Grey with Sky or
Green Bands.
In Slender Men’s, Men’s and Out Sizes.
Price 6/6. Sent Carriage Paid.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
I*
Gossip
Ask any
expert!
He will tell you to use as much air as
your carburetter or spirit will take. Figure
it out, or watch what the winner of a
petrol consumption test does. He uses
others and gets the greatest efficiency.
a*
CUV
more Oxygen than
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
on account of the greater number of heat units it contains,
will take more air than other spmts or benzine. That s
why we make it and sell it —why results and
sales prove it to be the best for motor cars.
Gargoyle Mobiloil
Cg; r ;>.v^
Mobile)
am
is
our
other
Speciality
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
One of Victoria’s new immigrants—a
painter and decorator who admitted that his
earnings averaged £3 10s. per week —was
sued recently by his wife for maintenance
for herself and their two children. He
coolly offered 15s. a week. The Court said
it wasn’t enough, and ordered him to pay
20s. for his wife and ss. each for his chil-
dren, and to find a surety of £2O that he
would obey the order. Whereupon : “And if
I don’t pay, what then?” The J.P.:
“Gaol.” “How long?” “Six months.” “I’ll
do the six months.” Just so! And under
the present fool system of penal administra-
tion the wife and children may starve until
the wife petitions for his release, and then
takes the few shillings he chooses to dole out
to her. Yet a painter and decorator who is
worth 70s. weekly to a private employer
should be worth quite as much to the State.
On that basis he could be made to pay for
his maintenance in gaol, plus about £3 a
week, which might be handed to his wife.
The chances are that this precious immigrant
would speedily weary of that game.
SHAKING HIM UP.
“No, Jim, our engagement must be definitely
ended. ”
"Why! What the?"
“You just plunk round to the parsonage and
fix up for that wedding to-morrow! ”
- “Gordon G.” : If statistics keep going the
way they have travelled lately, litigation will
soon be a thing of the days gone by, and bar-
risters will be able to beat their wigs into
hassocks. Possibly the millennium is at
hand ; perhaps the people are moving a tacit
vote of no-confidence in Judges and Gentle-
men One; maybe empty purses are the
vogue ; or, most likely,
the ordinary bloke is
just sick and tired
of the whole, long-
winded, cumbersome
and expensive busi-
ness. Anyhow, where-
as the number of
Supreme Court causes
entered for trial in
Victoria in IS9O
reached 535, and the
amounts at issue
£687,000, the corre-
sponding figures for
1912 were respectively
108 and £BO.OOO. It
was just the same
with all other courts,
barring the brilliant
exception supplied by
the Divorce branch;
in that jurisdiction
the average number of
decrees before 1890
was 12 per annum, as
against 120 since. I
don’t know whether
there are any morals
hidden in this last bit
of information. The
chances are that there
were more immorals
hidden when the di-
vorces numbered only
12, and the way
wasn’t often open to
a regular second
wedding.
“Melb ” : There is a strong move, eagerly
helped by the Age, to shift all Caulfield rac-
ing to Flemington. Why not? Fiemington
is one of the finest courses in the world.
Caulfield disputes with the English Epsom the
distinction of being about the worst. The
hump is worshipped in both. In addition
to the big corroborees, there are Caulfield
races about once a month, dislocating the
traffic on two great lines of railway. Schuler
says it> reminds him of the rout and con-
fusion following in the track of a beaten
army. Shunt all this, over to Flemington,
and you interfere scarcely at all with regu-
lar traffic, the race crowd being diverted to
its particular line, not used otherwise. Then
also Caulfield frequenters howl loudly over
delays. The trains crawl along the six
miles. It is no unusual thing for the jour-
ney to take an hour and a quarter. Popula-
tion has grown enormously in Armadale,
Malvern and Caulfield, and the dislocation of
traffic annoys these people and the tens of
thousands who live beyond. It is absolutely
certain that Caulfield Races will become
blankly impossible in a few years. Well,
then, make the reform now, before any
more vested interests are created.
After being held for nearly 90 years in
close grip, Mount Pleasant, near Bathurst
(N.S.W.), is to be cut up and sold in small
farms. The history of the estate, shortly
told, is this. Major-General Stewart arrived
with the 3rd Buffs, carrying with him a
commission as Lieut.-Governor, in 1825.
He also brought with him from the Duke of
York an order for the selection of 3000
acres in any part of the colony he might
choose —a reward for services in the Penin-
sular Wai*. It was not until 1827 that he
made his selection. He took up his 3000
acres in the parish of Mount Pleasant, along
Evans Plains Creek, but not including Mon-
ument Hill, where the General’s tomb and
monument are. Before leaving for India in
1828, he obtained a lease of 12,000 acres,
the remaining portion of the parish! In
1832 he returned to Bathurst to look after
his property, and deciding then to settle in
the colony, he purchased the 9000-acre block
on which Monument Hill and Mount Plea-
sant House stand. He gave ss. an acre for
it. In 1838 he secured the 2400-acres block
at the southern side of the parish, for whiqh
he paid 12s. per acre. The General —or
Colonel, as he was then —was Acting-Gover-
nor for 18 days between the departure of
Sir Thos. Brisbane and the arrival of
General Darling. A mighty land-grabber
he was ; yet one thing remains to his credit.
Brisbane left several prisoners under sen-
tence of death to be dealt with by the in-
coming Governor. Stewart, learning that
not one of them had committed a really vile
offence, exercised his power as Acting-Gover-
nor and cheated the over-worked scaffold of
the lot.
ALL SHE ASHED.
HE : “May I offer you some refreshment?'"
SHE : “Yes. Just give me a few moments to
myself.”
“Cylinder’s” unholy exposure :—-
N.S.W. Navigation Laws provide for every steamer
on Sydney Harbor carrying a duly certificated engi-
neer and a duly certificated master. But the fool of
an Act puts it such a way that there is nothing to
prevent a man who holds both certificates acting in
both capacities. That is, he can, theoretically, put
the engines astern in obedience to his own signal
from the wheel. Just how the oracle is worked was
shown in the Industrial Court the other day. A man
employed on a harbor vessel sued the owner for not
paying him an engineer’s wage. His union argued
that he was fireman as per engagement, but engi-
neer actually, performing the duties at a
fireman’s wages. His case got very short shrift.
“Have you an engineer’s certificate?” blandly asked
the Court. “No.” “Do you act as a bona-fide
engineer?” If the complainant said “Yes” he ex-
posed himself to a £5O fine, so naturally he said
“No,” and lost his case with 575. costs. Thus the
Law lays it down that the master on the upper deck
is the engineer in the bowels of his contraption,
when, as a matter of fact, he is really the engineer
at the helm.
On the authority of “Jeames” :
The following, which appeared among the Sun’s
cables last week, has points of humor: —
“Mr. Henry Savage Landor, the famous explorer,
has returned to England after a period of wandering
in Brazil. He states that for one, period of 16 days
he had nothing to eat, and his life was only saved
by the attacks of ants. Millions of these swarmed
the forests, and whenever, overcome by faintness, he
fell, they swarmed all over him and bit him sav-
agely, compelling him to struggle up and on.”
Landor may be described as the low comedian among
the world’s explorers. He has certainly covered a
good deal of country in his time, but no one dreams
of taking him seriously. His grandfather was that
highly imaginative poet, Walter Savage Landor,
which may have something to do with.his tendencies.
When Landor goes exploring things happen to him
that never befel another man on earth. His account
of his wanderings among the Hairy Ainu —the people
who do not eat the fish on which they chiefly subsist
till it has lain festering uproariously in the sun for
a week at least —staggered the civilised world of
the middle ’9o’s. It did not know its Landor at
the time. His more recent travels in Tibet were a
shriek from start to finish. The Grand Llamas tor-
tured him and tried to kill him. However, they
proved to be sorry bunglers. They would truss him
up, sear his back with red-hot irons, and, after hours
of strenuous toil, discover, to their annoyance, that
he was still alive. This disheartened them, so thev
let him loose and shooed him on to another batch
of Llamas further down the roafl. The same per-
formance was repeated by the new crowd, with simi-
lar results. He arrived back in England with what
purported to be Llama-marks all over him, and these
he was prepared at any moment to show to inter-
viewers. At the time of writing he is doubtless
showing the usual cynical gathering of Fleet-streeters
his alleged ant-bites. In fancy I, who knew him
well, as one of the most imperially humorless little
men on earth, can see him at it. He writes attrac-
tively, and illustrates his works with excellent photo-
graphs and nice little drawings something after the
style of Belloc’s pictures in “The Path to Rome.”
William Macleay, a distinguished N H
Wales colonist and scientist, who q<- his own
cost organised an expedition to New Guinea
in 1874, was one of the founders of the
Linnean Society, to which he presented a
meeting-house at Elizabeth Bay, Sydney He
also set apart a sum to presently provide for
four fellowships of £4OO each yearly a t
Sydney University, so that students might
follow up their studies after attaining the
degree of B.Sc. He died in 1891, and for
the first time the Council has been able this
year to invite applications for the fel-
lowships, the bequest having now reached an
amount which will allow of £l6OO a year
being paid out regularly.
From “Henri Singemoine” :
The intimation (29/10/’l3) that Sir Ernest
Shackleton “hopes to lead another Antarctic expedi-
tion in 1914” draws attention to the fact that the
polar exploration business is being overdone. The
immemorial practice is for the intrepid explorer to
begin by trying to collect sufficient cash to defray
the expenses in his native land. That failing, he
passes on elsewhere—say to Australia or M.L.— arK ]
the hat is circulated with renewed enthusiasm, lie
starts for the world’s chief refrigerating chamber
amid a scene of indescribable enthusiasm on the part
of mayors, subscribers to his fund, and newspaper
reporters and photographers. On the way to his
destination he has moving-pictures taken of the sea
—as seen when lashed by an 80-mile-an-hour breeze
—of penguins, of icebergs and of seals. Arrived
there, or thereabouts, he photographs more blizzard-
effects. more ice, more penguins and more seals. This
task over, he leads the life, as nearly as possible, of
a hibernating bear till the weather permits of his
starting home again. Then —provided that he has
not, during the hibernation period, fallen down a
crevasse and got killed, or died of frost-bite or
scurvy or exposure or hunger—he gets under way,
and presently reaches his ship. Moving pictures are
taken of the ship with the crew waving deliriously
at him over the bulwarks, and of him advancing over
the ice with his fellow-explorers and such dogs as
remain uneaten. The ship starts for civilisation.
During the next six months the explorer lectures
furiously to steadily-diminishing houses, and writes
a book against time, telling how he did it all. His
object is to pay the expedition’s debts. He hardly
ever does it, the public having little more use for a
returned explorer than America has for a beaten
pugilist. The Government is appealed to—any old
Government, whether British or Australian, will do
—and after much sordid recrimination the matter is
adjusted. The nett result is practically nil.
“Science” is supposed to benefit in some vague way,
and Australia’s public astronomers profess to be gra-
tified at the confirmation of their darkest suspicions
in regard to the origin uf certain gales. But it is
hardly pretended that anything of the least tangible
value to the world has ever been unearthed—nothing
that would, in reality, justify the untimely decease
of so much as one mariner. My view is that, if
people like Shackleton feel that they simply must
spend the public’s money in the attempt to get to
the world’s more or less hidden places, they should
proceed to some region which has a reasonable chance
of returning a dividend. The interior of Australia’s
Northern Territory, for example. It would be well
worth this country’s while to subsidise a party of
scientists to spend a year searching for gold, iron,
radium ore and the like in the Territory. There
would be no tragedies, since the climate is perfect
and the indigenous nigger comparatively tame; no
hardships worth mentioning; a splendid field for cine-
matography ; and in the final upshot the possibility
of a new Kalgoorlie or Broken Hill, or what not.
Antarctica can never hope to make a return of that
sort. About id. in the £ is the very best that can
be looked for from it.
NON-COMMITTAL.
STEIN : “ Then you didn't set the place on fire
yourself? ”
LIVINSKY : “ Veil, the chury disagreed. ”
The lighthouse-keepers at Cape Jervis
(S.A.) had a shock during a recent big
Sunday storm, and are lucky to be alive to
tell about it. The big flagstaff was struck
by lightning, the top 15ft. of it being split
into spears and laths. Then the fluid ran
down the pole, took to the chains staying it.
and was safely “earthed” within 6ft. of a
bisr mixed lot of kerosene, carbide, rockets
and oil that some humorist had established
in a galvanised shed right at their feet.
THE SPENDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I should like to see women have the responsibility
of spending money earlier in life. —-Archbishop Clarke.
The trouble, with our womcnkind
Is that they learn too late the art
Of handling coin, and husbands find
That they are called upon to part
Their good red gold to spenders who
Have no idea what they should do—
Who never regulate the flow
Of current cash,
But ope the purse and let it go
In one big splash.
We need to catch them young and shy,
And give them golden quids galore ;
That when, as wives, they have to buy
They’ll find it something of a bore,
And habit will their souls possess
With an all-saving weariness.
Then men may waste oof at the bar,
Or lose or lend it,
Because their blase matrons are
Too bored to spend it.
Good Dr. Clarke has faith. Perhaps
He’ll offer proofs. Unless he will
He’ll not convince the other chaps,
For use is second nature still,
And sisters whom no gold’s refused to
Will go on doing what they’re used to.
They’ll gaily dissipate like smoke
The treasure golden,
Then break the new man when they’ve broke
The hapless old ’un.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, 30 Upstairs.
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
6.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
THE IDEAL FABRIC for
LADIES’ BLOUSES, ROBES,
etc.
(I
f I
"’Flannel
DOES NOT SHRINK.
$
rrc &e.oo )
—ll —(| —ri Tessa
THE IDEAL PANAMA
FOR THIS SEASON.
Being extremely light in weight, and there-
fore very cool, this style of Panama will be
appreciated for summer wear.
It has the low crown now favored, a fine even
plait, and brim of any desired width from
2i to 3i inches. The shape is new and dis-
tinctive.
21/- and 25/
Postage 6d. extra. Please state size and
width of brim.
Handsome new catalogue—just from press
—sent on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f\
'imm iiKMH /
pi ■ pZyW?;: 'i.W/y " J/f
tf ft f jf
BLACKMAIL.
"I here must be a lot of money in being a
telephone girl.”
"There is—if you get hold of the fellow's right
number.”
Lawyer Croker, or, to be more correct,
Mrs. W. H. Croker, is disclosed as the land-
lord, or, to be more specific, the landlady,
of the Inter-State Commission. The resi-
dence is somewhere in East Melbourne, and
tariff-reformers will run the risk of forget-
ting their mission in the excitement of the
chase. Many weeks ago the Crokers’ pri-
vate house was mentioned as the probable
home of the Commission, but for some rea-
son no official announcement was made.
Then advertisements were inserted inviting
tenders for a suitable place in which the
Commission might hide its identity and be
forgotten, and, after a decent interval of
time, the admission was made that the
Crokers’ premises were successful in the
tendering. Which, of course, was no end of
a surprise.
“Icon”: The Felton bequest market has
been dull of late ; in fact, almost lifeless. A
fortnight ago, however, £2236 worth of stuff
came to hand from abroad, and the canvas
market closed in better tone. A half-finished
Claude Monet, costing £l2Bl, is called
“Rough Weather,” and should be re-named
“Rough Painting.” Fortunately for Monet
it is placed a long way from Peter Graham’s
gorgeous seascape on the same subject.
Monet was the protagonist of impressionism—
and the harbinger of post-impressionism—
that dreadful occupation followed by per-
sons suffering from paranoia. Alongside this
petit mal hangs a convulsion by Alfred
Sisely, called “Strawricks” —ugly, misshapen
heaps of dirty-blue hay, made out of burnt
sienna meadow grass, thatched with burnt
umber tiles. Of all the many commonplace
and unimaginative pictures in the dreadful
Felton collection, this is surely the very
acme of all that is banal. It cost £787.
The very light is opaque, and the trees and
foliage so intensely deformed as to convey
gloom without breadth. “Havre Harbor,”
by J. Boudin, cost £l6B, and shows how
necessary it is that Havre should spend
money on improvements if it wishes to keep
abreast of modern progress. This latest
consignment of poor paintings calls up the
query whether the Felton Bequest trustees
are not being shamefully used by their selec-
tors. Why do they not occasionally buy a
modern example of genre painting, portray-
ing the incidents of everyday life, such as
are found in such profusion in the Dutch
galleries? The public prefers Longstaff’s
“Bush Fire” to Turner’s “Okehampton
Castle” (£1500), and Streeton’s “Sydney
Harbor” to Corot’s “Bent Tree” (£3500).
And surely a public gallery should mainly
contain pictures the public can understand
and admire.
* * * •
The Webber stain has been wiped off the
name-platb of Victoria, and a Colonel did it.
Incidentally he happens to be a New South
Welshman, but he did the
glorious act in Victoria. The
Opportunity came at the
George Reid luncheon, at
Federal Parliament House,
on October 22. “The King,”
shouted the well-fed throng,
with its glass in the air.
The wine was trickling down
loyal throats when a burst
of noise came from the
centre table. It was from
Ryrie, M.H.R. He Gor-
saved in a nasal falsetto that
might have made George V.
himself wish he had been
born a republican too. Those
who were not spluttering
over the half-drunk toast
tried to join in. Piggott,
M.H.R., who is proud of his
ancestry, aided and abetted,
while Jocook smiled benign-
antly, forgetting the days
when he also was a repub-
lican. The Governor-Gene-
ral’s health was proposed,
and again the welkin
shivered. This time George
VI. led half the jolly-good-
fellow-chorus two bars from
the rear, which is the right
place for the astute politi-
cian who is in a stiddy job.
He finished well behind the
first three past the post.
Irvine also sang. Then
Joe’s health was jollied.
This time Reid got a flying
start, and sang with his face
turned to Heaven, in a
kookaburra pose. A bar
from the end he seemed to side-slip into
an air pocket, but when the discordant noise
escaped through the window, somebody said,
more in sorrow than in anger, that George
hadn’t lost his voice.
Archdeacon Boyce, of Sydney, broke out
again last week with a long list of horrors
in which assault, suicide and sudden death
were ascribed to drink. Probably excess of
alcohol had something to do with some of
them. But the fact missed by the well-mean-
ing Archdeacon is that the causes that lead
to suicide, murder and other horrors are t)ie
same that lead to drink. Financial worry,
ill-health and unrequited affection drive
people to take stimulants in order that they
may lift themselves abttve their troubles —in
order that they may el as they ought to
feel without the stimula. ts. If they got good
stimulants the chances a. - e that drink might
have the desired effect. But good liquor is
scarce, and the question is one that the State
—and incidentally the Archdeacon—ought to
go into. An exhaustive analysis of every
brand of wine, spirit and malt liquor should
be carried out, and those which do not attain
a high standard of excellence should be pro-
hibited. The abolition of alcohol of every
sort does not seem to lessen crime or make
people more humane. Probably not one Turk
in 100,000 ever drank either beer or whisky,
but he seems to have just as big a category of
crimes as anyone else. Yet, according to the
Boyce theory, the non-alcoholic Turk and
Chinaman should be patterns of virtue and
sweetness.
A Canadian paper has run out breath-
lessly to call the compulsory defence
trainees in Maoriland “hired murderers.”
Following that line of reasoning, a police-
man who is trained by the sergeant to de-
fend life and property is a hired scoundrel,
and the fire brigade that is drilled to pro-
tect the public’s sleeping missus and the
kid and the time-payment piano is a hired
incendiary. Also, the boy who is forced to
go to school so that he can be trained to de-
fend a salary later on is a hired waster in
prospect. It seems a strange way of looking
at things; but, then, there are lots of
strange people about.
WEATHERBOUND.
MRS. BROWN (to unexpected visitor): “ Why, what a surprise! It must be years since
you last called on me."
MRS. SMITH : "Ah, well, my dear, consider the weather we have been having!”
“Camp”: People have all sorts of vague
ideas as to what is enough to make a parson
swear. A Launceston (Tas.) congregation
learned, the other Sunday morning, that the
übiquitous “thrummer” will do the trick in
that State. After a stirring sermon a vigor-
ous old preacher made this announcement: —
Don’t forgpt the service of song this evening, and
don’t bring threepenny-bits. It will be worth more
than threepence. Damn your threepenny-bits! 1
wish they were all melted.
And turned into “plate,” presumably.
* * * *
One Barnett, of Victoria, had a hideously
narrow escape from a nasty, sticky end last
week. In defiance of every known law of
commercialism he backed a bill (for £59),
and was duly left to meet the obligation.
Being unable to do so at the moment, the
sheriff came on the scene, entered into posses-
sion of about £lOO worth of his furniture,
and proceeded to advertise the same for sale.
This upset Barnett’s young wife, who was in
a delicate state of health; so, fearing serious
consequences if the furniture were actually
sold, he went to the newspaper office and
stopped the advertisement by means of a
forged order. He was further induced to
this course by the knowledge that he would
be able to pay the £59, and did actually pay
it three days later. The order-forging busi-
ness, however, constituted contempt of court,
so Barnett was brought before Chief Justice
Madden, who, controlling his outraged feel-
ings with a furious effort, spoke as follows: —
This conduct on the part of Barnett was most
audacious and insolent. One can scarcely conceive
the confidence with which these interferences with
justice are resorted to in recent times ; in the olden
days people would hardly have dared to think of
such things....On the face of it, this appeared to
be a most outrageous act. Barnett not only took
the law into his own hands, but he defied the law
and he defied the Court....He will be imprisoned
for one month —sentence to be suspended to a recog-
nisance to be of good behavior for 12 months.
How his Honor must have grinned as he
wound up that deliverance!
A large building was going up on the
premises adjoining the suburban private
hospital of a prominent Melbourne doctor,
and the contractor had noticed a decided
falling-off in the daily outpi. t of his brick-
layers. As a result of anxious investiga-
tion, he presently made his appearance in
the office of the medical man. He was
rather angry. “Dammitall,” he said, ‘‘can’t
you pull down your blinds'? How do you
think I’m going to get my building com-
pleted if you keep the gangs off work half
their time watching your infernal opera-
tions '?”
The strike of P. and 0. officers
which happened last week has been ex-
pected since 1910, when the Merchant Ser-
vice Guild in Australia appeared before the
High Court at Sydney. The then chief
officer of the Moldavia, C. E. Irvine, aston-
ished the social natives when he detailed the
salaries paid by the cheap nigger co.—for
instance, fifth officers, £4 a month, rising to
£5 after two years; chief officers, starting
at £l4, and rising to £l7 after three years’
service. After seven years a chief mate was
overwhelmed with £2O a month. Irvine
broke the news that the senior chief mate of
the fleet staggered under a salary of £22 10s.
or £23 a month. The commodore of the
fleet received £9OO a year. The Court on
that occasion expressed no opinion on the
P. and O.’s pay-sheet, but could be heard
two blocks away thinking strenuously.
“A. Sparagus”: Ministers of the Crown
are often referred to as animated “rubber
stamps.” In many cases the description
fits, as anyone who has had much experience
of departments will know. In the
present N.S.W. State Ministry there is,
however, at least one man who performs
his duty conscientiously. Only last week a
huge pile of papers was placed before him
for noting and signature. Amongst them
was the death certificate of one of the depart-
mental inspectors. After scanning it he
laboriously wrote “Approved” across the foot
of the document, and sent it along for filing.
The Almighty will no doubt be pleased at
receiving this official endorsement of His
actions.
LOST OVERBOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two members of the crew were lost overboard
during the passage. One was a German, 21 years of
age, and the other a Norwegian, aged 22 years.
—N civs xtcfi\j»
We cruised about till daylight came. We searched
each wrinkled crest;
We knew that they were young and strong, and would
not give it best.
And fancy plays some cruel tricks when eyes are
strained to see ;
We thought we saw them many times and shouted
joyously.
But ev’ry time it was some mean illusion made of
weed —
Of foam and shadow—phantom-play to make a
mate’s heart bleed.
Hope never faltered. Round and round our longings
bade us sail;
We looked to see a waving arm and hear a faint,
brave hail.
But never came a human sign from that grim waste
of sea ;
We saw the belts and wood we’d thrown receding
steadily.
Then silence grew upon the ship, when lingering
hopes had gone ;
And, like some great and startled bird, the guilty
ship went on.
We knew that they, poor souls, were drowned ere one
dread hour had fled ;
We had to hover round their grave to see them safely
dead—
To see that they were safely dead, else we could
never trail
Across the haunted seas without a faint, pursuing
hail.
And who could keep upon his course or joy in
liquor take
Who heard his shipmates cry to him from every
starlit wake?
We had to watch long hours for them, though hope-
less it might be.
God pity women who bear tons to have them drowned
at sea!
x.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.


THE FUTILE DON KOOXOT E.


CHAPTER lII.—WEDDED BLISS FOR TWO.
(5) But let. us return to our hero. So far
front hunger-striking, he ate everything in
sight and began to wax fat.
(6) ‘‘Couldn't you give tne some sort of recreation?” he
asked the warder one day. ‘‘Something to keep down my fiesh
and keep up my spirits?” He was set to turning a grindstone
to sharpen the prison cutlery.
(1) She did not miss him very
much at first, she was too busy
with her outrage duties. But she
didn't forget him; ah. ho! A
wotnah uever forgets!
(2) One rather slack day
she looked turn up in his
new diggings. “Percy.” s|i«
called, “are you there, Percy?
'lt is your own dear little
Suffy." .
Silence on the part of Percy. f
(3) He must tie asleep. I'll wake
Id in up I
(7) At last his time ex- .
‘ piled, and here you see him r t r
• once more a free man,
• and on his way to resume
connubial joys. "How time
flies when you are
enjoying yourself!"
he sighed.
(4) “Did you knock?”
asked the warder.
“Yes, I did knock,
rather," she replied. “I
want to see m.V husband."
“Very sorry.” quoth the , warder* "but
this is not one of our reg’lar visiting days.”
A husky whisper came from cell No. 0:
“Oh. save me from my—my happiness!”
<»> * *
Fiifi
Rt dy‘fi.4.
(11) “Percy,” she
cried, “at times you really
seem to evince glimmer-
ings of reason: You
shall have your aero-
plane!"
(9) “I leave you for a while," she said one morn-
ing. "I’m going out to' knock corners off Trafalgar
Square, and lertve you to baby and your own reflections.,
Remember! the hand that rocks the cradle rules the
world!" (It will be noted that a few months of domestic
bliss has had its anti-fat consequences. has ,ost
weight!) .
(10) “My dear,” lie said on her»return,
“if you would buy me an aeroplane 1 could
be a help-meet to you, I would learn to
fly, and from great heights drop expfcshreff
about where they would do the most good,**
(12).... One day she sent him up
with a good supply of dynamite and
things He HAS NOT YET COWS
DOWN,
FINIS*
A SUFFRAGETTE’S ROMANCE (CONCLUDED).


Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
you aware that Smith’s Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors ; they are
anxious to obtain your business; they can save you
money on your bag account; and are anxious to get
in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed, if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
“Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,
Sydney.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE..
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS A WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
/ EVERY DAY \
mote people are proving that '
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
Z<'
i I »V|< 7 *
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“DRAT THAT BOY !”
Edward Dyson has a namesake in Perth
(. ;A.) who runs a pawnbrokery, and who-
distinguished himself last week by capturing
a burglar on the premises. The burglar*
after being relieved of 40 gold watches and
10 gold chains, gave his name as Harry
Pickards.
Recently the cable columns of the dailies
have been full of tales of English and
American colliery horrors. His most ardent
admirers are quite right; Australia offers
but a poor field for the display of the nobler
qualities of one of our most eminent poli-
ticians.
Thomas Alwright Dibbs, general manager
of the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
reached, his 82nd year a week ago. He has
been 6G years. in the service of the
Bank, and for 46 years has been its general
manager. His associate-manager nowa-
days is H. H. Massie, the one-time famous
cricketer.
“0.K.” pictures Panton’s worse side :
The story of how he came to sentence Bob Sutton
Sievier to a month’s imprisonment, for punching
Lord Deerhurst’s nose in a Melbourne pub, supplies
historic proof of Panton’s unfitness for the position
he longtime held in the Melbourne Court. Deerhurst
was an impudent defaulter to bookmaker Sutton, and
when they met in the pub they made themselves
unpleasant to one another. Sutton may have been
the more active aggressor, nevertheless the lordling
had invited the punch on the nose by making bets
with no intention of meeting his losses. But because
this precious lordling was aide-de-camp to Sir Henry
Loch, the then Governor of Victoria, Panton sen-
tenced Sutton to a term of imprisonment, without
the onti.on of a fine—for a petty assault in a pub.
The decision was upset on appeal, of course. Panton
privately excused himself on the ground that the
sanctity of vice-regalism must be maintained. If he
didn t treat the punching of an aide-de-camp's nose
as a criminal offence, said Panton, somebody might
think of assaulting the holy Governor himself. It
never occurred to the ingrained snob that a Governor
who repudiated his gambling debts would be equally
deserving of his creditor’s violence,
THE REAL STATE COW.
The present Government had milked the State
cow dry. —Indignant Liberal speaker.
THE LIB.: “Here, go easy! I might want to
milk her in the mornin'"
THE LAB.: “Don't worry, old chap. So tong
as we can keep her nosebag full, she'll
milk all right.”
John Creuze Hiugeston Ozier, the old
litigious Victorian ex-P.M., who died the
other day, was at Rutherglen when
the big mining boom made itself heard there,
and was a borough councillor. In
later years he used to speak lovingly of the
beautiful times they had. Each councillor
took a waddy to the meetings, and one meet-
ing broke up through the mayor being pro-
jected out of the window.
F. S. Delmer, an old Bulletin contribu-
tor, formerly a master at Sydney Grammar
School, issues a “History of English Litera-
ture from Beowulf to Bernard Shaw,” an-
nounced by English booksellers a few weeks
ago. The work first appeared in Germany,
where Delmer is Professor of English Litera-
ture at Berlin University. After all, the
“English” of Beowulf is 9 good deal nearer
German than any English of the present day
—except perhaps that spoken in George
V.’s household.
Mrs. Florence Barclay, who continues to
turn out “best sellers” in the sentimentally
religious style of fiction —“The. Rosary” and
“The Following of the Star” are perhaps
her best-known novels-—has a son in Aus-
tralia, Rev. Cyril Barclay, of Chillagoe
(N.Q.), to whom one of her recent books is
dedicated. Barclay is a “high” churchman
—about 6ft. high, to be accurate —and
burns candles and incense while wearing
various vestments abhorrent to the soul of
Sydney’s Archbish. Wright; but his popu-
larity in what the local papers delight to
style the “Cairns hinterland” is due not so
much to his ritualism as to the fact that he
is a good sport. At Cambridge about four
years ago he held the hurdles and other
championships, and he is an assiduous and
successful stage manager of amateur thea-
trical shows. Moreover, he can and
does shake a lively leg at the local dances
(the enervated residents of the Australian
tropics, where the white man can’t live, are
great on dances, and will even dance for the
church funds if no better excuse is avail-
able), and withal he can use his hands a
shade better than the average next man. A
rearrangement among the Bush Brotherhood,
of which he is a member, has just sent him
from Chillagoe to Hughenden.
MAJORITY RULE.
The tariff has been relegated to the Inter-State
Commission. .. .Mr. Bruce Smith has given notice to
the Government that if it attempted to raise the
tariff it would have him in the ranks against it.
—Daily Telegraph.
The Government's Majority of One:
‘‘''Don't you go thinking this ra)t is going
to save you, Cafitat?i. Jf it heads for
Protection, then over we go, both of us.'”
Brassey, who used to fall oft' things in
Victoria, has resigned the Lord Wardenship
of the Cinque Ports —a merely nominal office
now, though it still entitles the holder to the
usq of Walmer Castle. The Duke of Wel-
lington was Lord Warden for 24 years, and
died in the rent-free humpy. The actual
work of the office was abolished in 1855, so
that, though Brassey is 77, old age is pro-
bably not the real reason for his retirement.
Lord Ivelburn, the new Com-
mander of H.M.S. Pyramus
(now in M.L.), is distinguished
chiefly by the fact that he is the
son of the Earl of Glasgow,
sometime Governor of the coun-
try whose harbors his son’s
vessel is now pervading. The
old Earl has been remarkable,
all his life, for his extreme in-
difference to appearances, not
to say criminal untidiness. In
the early days of railway travel-
ling he went to buy a ticket
and planked down a five-pound
note in payment. The booking
clerk, rendered suspicious by
the disreputableness of the old-
ster’s appearance, asked him to sign his
name on the back of the note. The seeming
tramp or hoboe duly wrote “Glasgow.”
Said the clerk bitterly, “I asked you to
write your name, you old ass, not the place
you want to go to.”
Squatter-politician John Duncan left to
Adelaide charities £l5OO, to the University
£5O (to keep in order the statue of Walter
Watson Hughes, his uncle and one of its
founders), and to the Presbyterian Church
£5OOO.
Paris Nesbit, K.C., of Adelaide, in an in-
terval of his crusade against enclosed-ground
coursing, takes on the militant suffragettes
and cheerfully suggests: “We shall have to
turn the hose on them.” “What these women
really want is husbands; of the mamy kind,”
he says. Then he recalls the Middle Ages,
when “similar phenomena appeared from time
to time, congregations of women leading an
unnatural life of sexual starvation,” and it
was found that for their hysteria “a jolly
good hiding was the most effective cure.”
“Melb” runs after the funeral, gasping as
he goes:—
Magistrate Panton was born at Knoekiemil, Aber-
deenshire, 1831. Father in the Hudson’s Bay Com-
pany’s service. Young Panton was educated at the
Scottish Naval and Military Academy and Edinburgh
University. Came to Sydney in 1851 ; then 20 years
old. Meant to be a jackeroo on a station, and
apparently was for a while, for it would be about a
year before he offered himself to Governor Latrobe
in Melbourne as a trooper. Latrobe was struck with
his commanding height and intelligent look, and
made him a Commissioner offhand. Probably there
was some influence behind him. Soon appointed
Assistant Commissioner at Bendigo, under Colonel
Bull, and became Chief Commissioner there from
1853 to 1858. Thus he held charge at Bendigo
during the Eureka trouble at Ballarat (December,
1854). Bendigo was in keen sympathy, but Panton
held it down well Denovan, the local historian,
writes: “Serious disturbance was prevented through
Panton’s tact and forbearance.” Skilful also in deal-
ing with the Chinese difficulty. Panton’s-roads,
through the Whipstick, were named after him. He
visited England and Europe in 1858. Established the
first Bendigo police court, the magistrate sitting on
a packing-case, and the clerk on a five-gallon keg.
Back from the Old World, he did some exploring.
He was at Kimberley, North-West Australia, and
made inquiries in Westralia generally about the
outlook for pearling and gold mining. Returned to
work in Victoria as magistrate and warden for the
Woods Point, Heidelberg and Yarra districts. He
mapped the whole Upper Yarra Valley, from the
Goulburn watershed to the Latrobe watershed. Pan-
ton Hills were named after him. He discovered and
named Mount Donna Buang, which he first called
Acland, but rightly changed to the aboriginal name.
Transferred to the Geelong and Western District.
Then to Melbourne in 1874, and held on there until
1907. He refused a knighthood. Panton’s auto-
cratic military predilections and general Toryism
were not altogether favorable to him as a magistrate
He was not reckoned quite so good as' Sturt and
Call. Yet he was seldom capsized in a higher court.
His deficiencies were mostly in style.
More from “Jeames”-
General Sir lan Hamil-
ton, who, according to the
cable, is coming here
shortly to inspect the
Australian forces, i s on e
of the. British army’s
most picturesque figures!
i' or years he was reputed
to be the best-looking man
in the service. He has
written poetry of no mean
order and his prose is
excellent. He has fought
in most parts of the un-
civilised globe; he was
one of the few highly-
placed warriors who
emerged with credit from
the S African war ; and if he wears all the
decorations to which he is entitled, at anv
local party, the wealthiest sheep-monarch’s
present will not be comparable to him
for barbaric glory. One of his cousins (she
was M'ss Constance Hamilton) is married
to Bob Blackwood, the well-known River-
ma squatter who spent three fevered months
and no more as a member of the Australian
Parliament.
“No man can overlook his stomach.”
—George Reid.
Old George is speaking by the book.
The fact is as indited,
His stomach he can’t overlook—
Yet George is not near-sighted!
, W : Dooley, M.L.A., of Westralia, who
died a few days ago, was a young Parlia-
mentarian, but an old hand at Labor’s
plough. Twenty-five years ago he started in
to help it along in Svdne.v, and remained
more or less on the job till Death, the old
timekeeper, called “Spell-oh.” He was elected
for the Geraldton seat two years back, and
his political opportunities were the brighter
for the fact that, with a past crowded with
experience gained in various parts of Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, he was only 45 years
young.
John McNeill, M.L.A. for Pyrmont
(N.S.W.) until the recent redistribution,
was. the midget Laborite whose seat looked
so secure that any insurance co. almost
would have issued a policy on it; yet he
now loses it by merger, fellow-Labor man
Cochrane’s electorate of Darling Harbor
swallowing it. McNeill became known as
“Jack the Giant Killer” through having once
caught the ougnacious Wood asleep, and
bound him like the little men did the big
man in Gulliver’s Travels. Wood was so
astonished at the audacity that for once in
his life he forgot to talk back.
WILLY KELLY ret urns thanks for an
illuminated, address.
Dr. Thornton, Assistant-Bishop of Lon-
and Bishop of Ballarat (Vic.) from
1875 to 1900, is about to marry Mrs. Bice,
widow of the vicar of Battersea. The Bishop
and the lady were boy and girl together,
and the boy was the officiating minister at
the girl’s first wedding, her boy being at the
time the other boy’s curate. The plucky
youngster will be 77 when he takes his gaiters
for their second honeymoon.
I HEARD OF LATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f heard of late, in pious exaltation,
Our Bishop lash the vices of the Age—
Its lavishness, its greed for fine appointments,
Its endless avarice, its thirst for gaiety,
Its lust for sof£ luxurious devices,
Its love of flaccid ease.
“Why, only lately at our confirmation,”
His chiding voice ran on,
“I noted girls approach that holy office
Whose thoughts, ’twas plaip, were far more deeply
centred
Upon the snow-white muslin of their costume
Than on the rites divine.”
And then my thoughts flew back. A great cathedral
In mighty London rose before my eyes;
In the midst there stood, by bishops six attended,
A grave Archbishop tall,
Whose duty ’twas on this august occasion
To consecrate a new Episcopus
Unto a distant land, where priestly peers,
Striding abroad magnificent in gaiters,
Were hitherto unknown.
In sooth, a lordly prelate was his Grace.
A noble calm sat brooding on his brow,
And such the proud perfection of his garbing
That peace of mind a soft, contented halo
About his presence wove.
No single flaw or speck upon his robing
Could captious eye descry ;
And hence his air was full of satisfaction,
His glance discreet and bland.
His soft grey hair was down the middle parted ;
A ring enormous on each hand he bore;
A gown of richest satin, sable black,
With train a full yard long he deftly managed
With true jrtistic grace ;
The lawn sleeves of his rochet, swelling wide,
Were finished off with frills that sat quite smartly
Around his snowy wrists, while at his neck
A narrow band of scarlet, appertaining
To the square hood that hung behind,
Harmonious fell.
Of pleated satin was his Grace’s stole,
And fell before him, gently, softening down
The part where white and black had made a junc-
ture.
Of patent leather were his dainty shoes,
With diamond buckles glist’ning in their splendor.
And he who flaunted thus in regal raiment
Did call himself a fellow of the fishers,
Who drew their nets with Him, the Galilean,
And loved the Nazarene.
And, strange to tell, this all flashed back upon me,
As on that Sunday morn I heard the Bishop
Inveigh against the vanity of maidens
Who came arrayed to take their confirmation
In snow-white muslin fine!
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER FLAM.


ON THE FAVORITE.
Can you give me a good tip, Charlie?”
Yes! SmoKe nothing but VICE-REGAL TOBACCO
and CIGARETTES.”


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock ?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders.
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
v The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type
C. A. PARSONS S CO., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OP TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian
' Agents—
WILLIAM
ADAMS (Bu COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Peftiv
The WILD CAT
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(.Sydney) :
Reserves,
(not in-
cluding'
£500,000
Depre-
Net To Re- ciation
Profits. Dividends. serves. Fund).
Mar., ’06..£112,042 10p.c. = £llO,OOO £2,042 £418,453
Sept.,’o6.. 111,679 10 ~ ~ 110,000 1,079 420,132
Mar., ’07.. 110,827 10 „ „ 110,000 827 420,959
Sept.,’o7.. 118,057 10 „ ~ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., ’OB.. 134,782 10p.c. = 124,037 10,745 364,761
Sept.,’oB.. 146,493 10 ~ ~ 124,885 21,608 386,369
£350,000 of reserves capitalised .. 36,369
Mar., ’09.. 162,632 10p.c. = 142,500 20,132 56,501
Sept.,’o9.. 168.881 10 ~ ~ 142,500 26,381 82,882
Mar., ’lO.. 175,590 10 ~ ~ 142,500 33,090 1 5,972
Sept.,’lo.. 196,714 10 ~ ~ 142,500 54,214 170.186
£150,000 of reserves capitalised 20,186
Mar., ’ll.. 207.428 10p.c. = 150,000 57,428 77.614
Sept.,’ll.. 210,830 11 ~ ~ 165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., ’12.. 225,601 12},, ~ 187,500 38,101 161,545
Sept.,’l2.. 229 629 12} ~ ~ 187.500 42,129 203,674
Mar., ’13.. 233,530 12},, ~ 187,500 46,030 249,704
£250,000 of reserves capitalised .. i ~
Sept.,’l3.. 255,440 12}p.c. = 203,125 52.315 i
The Bulletin notes with deep sorrow that this
most unfortunate co. is in a sea of trouble again.
As usual, the chairman—his name is Kater, under-
stood to be short for Catastrophe—supplies the infor-
formation in his address to the shareholders. (1)
The sugar excise duty has been abolished in Aus-
tralia. This (previously payable on the sale of the
refined sugar) added, of course, to the value of the
eo.’s stocks. This meant writing them up, which
was a bother. (2) Trade has “suffered so much
from the operation of the Commercial Trusts Act”
in Maoriland. “It has proved to be a singularly
unwise piece of legislation.” On the other hand,
“there has been no falling-off in our Maoriland trade
in consequence of the prosecution”—that is, from the
operation of the Act. The Bulletin doesn’t know
how to reconcile the two statements. But, whatever
has happened, it is bound to have been serious. (3)
The men in the refineries want more money, and
have gone to arbitration about it. Mr. Kater fears
that “the public has not yet realised the enormous
cost of these inquiries, and the harm they do in
industrial affairs.” This co., for instance, was able
to make a profit of only £255,440 last half-year.
It is beggarly. (4) Thank Heaven, a new tramway
in Fiji is at work, and the traffic is being conducted
without trouble. But “all the [extra] profit will be
needed to pay interest and upkeep, as the construc-
tion of the line has cost us much more than we
expected.” (5) The crops are turning out very well,
but we want rain for the cane to be cut in 1914.
To have to rely on Providence in this way is humili-
ating. (6) A Bill has been introduced in the
Queensland Parliament providing for Boards “to fix
yearly the prices to be paid for cane,” the farmer to
get the advantage of any rise in prices and of im-
provements in the work of millowners. Of course
this co. is “opposing the Bill.” Farmers should be
prepared to take what the co. is prepared to give.
Yet the co. may do well to view that Queensland
Bill with some alarm. The Bill itself isn’t a very
serious one, but it means that at last the farmers
have, in dealing with the C.S.R., joined forces with
the Labor people; and that combination is the most
powerful in Australia. There isn’t much in the way
of legislation that it couldn’t do. So long as the
Labor party alone was hostile to the co., nothing
much happened: it is quite a different matter when
the farmers change over.
The co.’s capital is now £3,250,000, of whi'ph no
less than £825,000 has been presented to sharehold-
ers by way of bonuses within seven years. The pres-
ent 12} p.c. div. is thus equal to 16 p.c. on the
capital as it stood seven years ago plus the amounts
paid in money since then. And in addition to the
12} p.c. dividend, enough is now put by to pay
another 4 p.c. on that capital. Even assuming that
all the capital in 1907 was actually paid—which it
wasn’t—the present visible profits are at the rate
of over 20 p.c. p.a. on the actually subscribed capi-
tal, and there is no telling what profits have been
made that are not visible. Unquestionably the co.’s
position, financial and otherwise, is extraordinarily
strong. But when a co. which is practically a
monopoly can afford to give away £825.000 of
capital in less than seven years, and meantime pay
12} p.c. on the watered capital, and on top of that
put by enough to pay another 3} p.c. : and when all
this is done by acting mainly as a middleman between
the producer and the consumer of an article of
every-day use, that co. is bound to attract hostile
attention. It is quite true that for 10 years at
least the co. has seemed to thrive on that -hostile
attention ; but the investor who is prepared to back
his opinion that it will go on thriving in that way
seems to this paper to leave out of his reckoning that
awkward factor known as one man one vote. The
one-man-one-vote yeast may take a long time to
work, but it will work in the end, all right.
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) :
Dividends.
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 4} p.c. 5 p.c. serves. serves 1 .
Sept., 1906 . . 44,982 26,830 7,644 10,508 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907 . . 48,158 29,811 7,644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907 .. 4C.943 29.811 7,644 12.488 169,848
Mar., 1908 . . 42,305 29.811 7,644 ' 4,850 174,698
Sept., 1908 . . 49,017 29,811 7,644 11,562 186,260
Mar., 1909 .. 59,170 29,811 7,644 21,715 207,975
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
Sept., 1909 .. 59,390 35,773 9,173 14,444 222,419
Mar., 1910 .. 60,564 35,773 9,173 15,618 238,037
Sept., 1910 .. 60,392 35,773 9,173 15,446 253,483
Mar., 1911 .. 66,815 35,773 9,173 21,869 275,352
Sept., 1911 . . 63,053 35,773 9,173 18.107 293,459
Internal reserves disclosed .. 35,000 328,459
Mar., 1912 .. 77.104 35,773 9,173 32,158 360,617
Internal reserves disclosed .. 25.000 385,617
Sept., 1912 .. 78,742 35,773 9,173 33,796 410’413.
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1913 .. 84,232 41,735 10,702 31,795 451,208
Sept., 1913 . . 82,283 41,735 10,702 29,846 481,054
Though profits have sagged a little this half-year
they are still good, and after paying the 7 p.c.
dividend all round, the lay-by is highly respectable.
In this matter of strengthening its reserves the
National has been doing very well indeed: close on
£350,000 has been added in seven years. True,
£60.000 has been transferred from the internal con-
tingency fund ; but that isn’t altogether a bad sign.
The National, like the rest of them, was left after
the boom with a big load of depreciated securities,
and apparently it went on accumulating an internal
reserve so that it might write these down. It doesn’t
seem to have been in any hurry to realise, and when
Federation, Labor Ministries and other calamities
arrived, and property values recovered in a manner
that would be wonderful in any other country, this
bank apparently unloaded at prices which didn’t call
for any help from the old contingency reserve. If
it means what it ought to mean, the transfer from
that internal reserve indicates that the old trouble
has been entirely got rid of, and that reasonable pro-
vision has also been made for shrinkages in new
securities. That, of course, implies that there is, or
ought to be, a contingency reserve still in existence,
1 he idea that a bank sliouid show all its reserves
isn’t as good underneath us it looks on the surface,
ft might be all right if a bank knew just when it
had made a bad debt; but it doesn’t. Jones borrows
•'5OOO to-day, and the security looks all right.
N'ext year, however, it doesn’t look quite so good,
but there are hopes of an improvement. In the
third year Jones takes to drink, hot the manager
doesn’t know that, though he should have found it
out. In the fourth year things get worse, and in the
fifth year the security is sold bv the bank and
fetches only £2OOO. It isn’t a fair thing to charge
the loss of £3OOO all to the fifth year—the one
year, perhaps, in which the bank did nothing for
which it could be blamed. The right thing is to
accumulate a contingency or bad debts reserve, and
make good the loss or the greater part of it out of
that.
Returning to the National, the bank has pursued
a bold or (as it has seemed sometimes to The Bul-
letin) cheeky policy. It cracked hardy even when
it must have been feeling pretty sick. The public
took it at its own valuation, and these figures show
the result in 10 years:—
Sept., ’O3. Sept., ’l3.
Notes, bills, etc. £754,108 £.713.900 Dec. 5.3p.c.
Free deposits . . 2,399,854 3,800,498 Inc. 58.3 ~
Deposits at interest 3,743,722 6,313,399 Inc. 68 6 „
Liquid assets .. 2,732,701 3.857,322 Inc. 41.1 ~
Advances . . 5,024,427 8,570,499 Inc. 7<>:s
Premises, etc. .. 765,397 438,687 Dec. 42.6 ~
Besides increasing its advances by 704 p.c. in 10
years there is very little doubt that it has also im-
proved the average quality of its assets. Altogether
it is a rather remarkable performance. In the past
12 months there have been these changes:
Liabilities.
Sept., 1912. Sept., 1913.
Notes .. £52,491 £42,864 Dec. £9,627
Bills, etc. . . 907,998 671,036 Dec. 236,962
Free deposits . . 3,727,245 3,800,498 Inc. 73,253
Deposits at inter-
est . . . . 6,794,553 6,313,399 Dec. 481,154
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 3,736,928 3,857,322 Inc. 120,394
Advances . . 9,273,438 8,570,499 Dec. 702,939
Premises, etc.. . 441,501 438,687 Dec. 2,811
Most figures have moved down ; but that isn’t unex-
pected. General conditions have been responsible for
that. The bank certainly couldn’t afford to go on
lending more in the face of shrinking deposits.
Even now, with nearly three-quarters of a million
less advances out than it had 12 months ago, it has
only 35 p.c. of its liabilities represented by liquid
assets. The latter don’t amount to as much as the
current-account deposits, exclusive of bills and notes.
Theoretically, at any rate, the position isn’t strong
in regard to bullion and liquid resources. From other
points of view things look better. The shareholders’
money in the business (capital and reserves) repre-
sents £1 for every £5 10s. of the public’s; and
that is a safe proportion, other things being normal.
Also, as before remarked, the capital and reserves
are to all appearances intact and sound. At any
rate, they show very fair earnings, which, is gener-
ally an indication of soundness:—
Profits as Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., ’lO.. £7 0 8 p.c.|Mar., ’12.. £8 12 2 p.c.
Sept., ’lO.. 6 19 1 „ I Sept., ’12.. 8 9 5 „
Mar., ’ll.. 7 12 6 „ [Mar., ’13.. 8 15 8 ~
Sept., ’ll.. 7 2 2 „ | Sept., ’13.. 8 8 10 „
The capital consists of £305,780 in £lO pref.
shares fully paid (the preference as to capital ceases
after eight more half-yearly divs. of 7 p.c. or more
have been paid), and £1,192,440 in ordinaries of
£5 paid. On the latter shares there is a reserve
liability of £3 each.
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Bris-
bane) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten T*Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’05.. £9,896 31 p.c. = £8,468 £1428 £67,420 ’
June,’o6.. 10,016 3* ~ „ 8,468 -- 1548 68,968
Dec., ’O6 . 10,933 4 ~ ~ 9,71U£1500 - 68,690
June, ’O7 . 11,246 4 ~ ~ 9,790 1456 70,146
Dec., ’07.. 12,626 4£ „ ~ 11,162 1000 464 70,610
Mar., ’OB.. 6,305 41 „ „ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept.,’oB.. 12,768 41 „ ,j 11,597 1171 72,377
Mar., ’09.. 12,707 41 ~ „ 11,719 988 73,365
Sept.,’o9.. 12,826 41 ~ „ 11,864 . 962 74,327'
Mar., TO.. 13,211 4J ~ ~ 12,100 —: 1111 -75,438
Sept., TO.. 13,338 4£ „ ~12,228 1110 76,548
Mar., ’ll.. 15,137 5 ~ „|13,746 1000 391 76,939
Sept.,’ll.. 15,586 5 ~ ~ 13,931 1500 155 77,094
Mar., T 2.. 15,969 5 „ „ 14,156 1500 313 77,407
Sept., T 2.. 15,857 5 ~ ~ 14,260 1500 97 77,504
Mar., T 3.. 15,412 5 ~ „ 14,289 < 1500 77,127
Sept., ’IS'.. 15,972 fe „ „ 14,344 . 1628 78,755
The Royal of Queensland is in some respects like the
City of Sydney. Its losses 20 years ago were con-
siderably greater than were provided for out of
capital or reserved profits. That of course meant
making good the unprovided-for losses out of future
profits; and no outsider could possibly know in
either case how much the unprovided-for losses
amounted to. That uncertainty, in its turn, meant
that the general _publie didn’t, view the two concerns
wrth much favor: it stood off their shares as an in-
vestment, and it didn’t rush the officers with either
deposits or first-class advance business. So the re-
covery of both banks has been slow, and even now
the investing public isn’t very cordial. The Queens-
land Royal, for instance, claims, in addition to its
eanital, £75,755 of reserves. That is to say, osten-
sibly it has its capital intact, and in addition about
30s. for each pref. share (of £lO paid), and 19s. for
each ordinary share (of £6 10s. paid). Yet the
£lO prefs. are under par and the ordinaries are
worth only about £4 15s. to £5 in the market. It
may be that the investor doesn’t care a hang about
his principal and looks only to the interest return ;
and in that case, seeing that the div. is only 5
p.c,, of course he wouldn’t pay par at present. Still,
there are people who are more or less concerned about
their principal as well as their interest; and if this
bank has its capital intact plus (say) 3s. in the £
of reserves,, there should be an attraction about it.
What really is the Royal’s position The Bulletin
doesn’t know. The profit disclosed in excess of the very
moderate 5 p.c. div. is small—scarcely enough to
pay another J p.c. Calculated on capital and alleged
reserves combined, earnings have lately been as
follows: —
Profits Compared with Shareholders'’ Funds.
Mar., 1910 £4 9 11 p.c. Mar., 1912 £5 3 10 p.c.
Sept., 1910 4 9 9,, Sept., 1912 5 2 4,,
Mar., 1911 5 1 0 „ Mar., 1913 4 19 2 „
Sept., 1911 5 2 2 „ Sept., 1913 5 2 5 „
If all the profit is disclosed, or if only enough extra
is put into the stocking to provide for reasonable
contingencies, then it would seem from this low
return as if either the bank’s current business is
poor or many of its assets are lame ducks still.
Certainly, even if there wasn’t a single ■ over-
valued asset in the Royal’s books, the profit calcu-
lated on capital and -corves wouldn’t be likely to
be large. Take these figures:—
Sept., 1912. Sept., 1913.
Bills and notes., £12,993 £11,394 Dec. £-1,599
Deposits, etc. . . 1,535,459 1,537,265 Inc, 1,866
Liquid assets . . 668,547 779,137 Inc. 110,590
Advances . . 1,440,924 1,332,636 Dec. 108,288
Premises .. 74,634 74,290 Dec. 344
The public’s money in the business is thus
£1,548,659; and as capital and reserves amount to
£623,059, there is only £2 9s. of other people's
money for every £1 of the shareholders'. Most other
banks have from £5 to £7. Further, of Die pub-
lic's £1,548,659, no less thifn £779,137 is liquid—-
mostly coin and bank balances —so that less than
half the public’s money is used in the ordinary busi-
ness of the bank. Between them, these two thing's
must mean comparatively poor earnings. But they
mean something else. Having so little of the pub-
lic’s money on deposit, and having .so little even of
that little out in advances, the position of the de-
positor is remarkably strong, while the shareholder’s
risks are remarkably small. Further, assuming that
the capital is intact, and disregarding the reserves
altogether, the bank has the foundations for a much
larger business; and if the right securities were
available, it has the cash to increase its advances at
once. Probably because it lias had a pretty tough
fight, the management appears to be bent on making
things safe and sound, dividends being quite a sec-
ondary matter for the present. The Bulletin has
no stones to throw at that policy, though on the
other hand it hasn’t much to say for a policy under
which moss is allowed over the premises.
The Castlemaine Brewery and Wood
Bkos. and Co. ''Newcastle, N.S.W.) :—-
Nominal
Written To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1902 .. 13,185 4 p.c. = 10,000 3000 185 42,168
1903 .. 13,080 4 „ ~ 10,000 3000 80 42,248
1904 .. 13,022 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 22 42,270
1905 . . 13,000 4 „ ~ 10,000 3000 42,270
1906 . . 15,019 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 2019 44,289
1907 .. 15,522 4 „ „ 10,000 3500 2022 46,311
19Q8 14,754 4 „ „ 10,000 25.Q0 2254 48,565
1909 .. 13,767. 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3000 767 49,332
1910 .. 13,387 4 „ ~ 10.000 2250 1137 50,409
1911 .. 10,346 4 „ ~ 10,000 - 346 50,815
1912 . . 15 551 44 ~ ~ 11,250 4301 55,116
Written off goodwill .. £12,000 .. 43,116
1913 . . 15,803 5 p.c. = 12,500 3303 46,419
That “written off goodwill, £12,000,” is more dr
less guessed at. The amount certainly has been
written off reserves, but what asset or alleged asset
was written down to correspond isn’t so obvious.
Twelve months ago, however, the directors said
that, as specially desired by shareholders, they had
got “a reliable valuation of the co.’s freehold and
leasehold properties,” and as this valuation was
higher than book values, the directors during the
year would “write off a substantial sum from good-
will account.” Apparently while they were about
it they wrote off some more, out of reserves. How
much of the capital is still represented by goodwill
isn’t ascertainable, because that intangible asset is
lumped with tangible assets like freeholds and lease-
holds and machinery and rolling stock. For all the
light the balance-sheet throws on the matter, there
may be 10s. in tangible assets for every £1 share
or there may be 19s. lid. If, however, there are
tangible assets worth anything like the full amount
of the capital, the co. ought to be paying a good
deal more than 5 p.c. Still, though the position is
so well cloaked, it is plain enough that, in the
management’s opinion, a considerable improvement
has taken place of late years. The foregoing table
covers 12 years’ operations, and during that period
no such profit as £15,803 was ever disclosed before.
The exes, have increased, like most people’s exes.;
but receipts have increased still faster. This next
comparison brings most of the co.’s figures into a
few lines:—
1901. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities to public £68,307 £69,855 £74,177 £80,910
Properties, goodwill,
plant, etc . . 215,922 263,400 266,027 263,405
Freeholds (special
account) . . 41)848 48,528 46,673 50,180
Sundry debtors’ . . 77,348 37,361 41,800 42,741
Bills, cash, etc.. . • 6,826 6,205 9,670 4,536
Stock .. .. 26,346 20,177 21,373 22,718
Receipts 61,716 46,231 64,758 75,317
Expenses, including
provision for bad
debts . . . . 48,623 35,885 49,207 59,513
The growth of receipts from £46,231 in 1911 to
£75,317 in 1913 is very remarkable. And, better
still, it hasn’t been accompanied by any great
capital outlay involving new liabilities: the co. cer-
tainly owes more money than it did, but the growth
lias not been at all staggering. Altogether, then,
though the eo.’s position is enveloped in mist, there
are various things to suggest that trade and profits
have improved, and that, internally, the co. is much
sounder than it was a few years ago. It operates
in a district which isn’t likely to become less popu-
lous, and among people who are not likely to forsake
beer in a hurry ; and, though this, like every other,
brewery co. will have to spend money in fighting the
Intemperance party, its strongholds probably won’t
be much shaken hy the present local-option law.
For the asininity of that law lies in the fact that,
where pubs are most numerous, there reduction is
most difficult. In other words, where there is most
necessity for reduction, reduction is hardest to win ;
and where it is least necessary, or not necessary at
all, a victory comes ouite easily.
The Bella mb i Coat. Co. (N.S.W.) —the
last few years of a remarkably prosperous concern: —-
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1907 .. 174 p.c. = £30,625 £77,351
£25.000 transferred to Capital. . 52,351
1908 .. £61,936 174 p.c.= 35,000 £26.936 79,287
1909 . . 53,879 15 „ „ 36,250 17,629 96,916
1910 .. 57,345 124 ~,, 31,250 26,095 123,011
1911 .. 73,961 174 „ „ 43,750 30,211 153,222
1912 . . 61,028 17| „ „ 43,750 17,278 170,500
£150,000 transferred to Capital .. 20,500
1913 . . 48,770 10 p.c. = 40,000 8,770 29,270
This co. has done such a lot of stock-watering that
a 10 p.c. div. calls for as much money now as 224
p.c. would have done seven years ago. For many
years the capital was £175,000; then £25,000 was
transferred from reserves, and, though the money
wasn’t wanted, £50,000 was got in from sharehold-
ers, making the total £250,000. Last year £150,000
was added to capital, the lump being lifted out of
reserves; so that for every one share held in 1907
the holder now has two—provided he hasn’t realised.
As a matter of fact, a good many of the old hands
have realised. For a few years the co. and its stock
were neglected, and the shares got into a compara-
tively few hands; many of them were mopped up
at a’few shillings. The people who owned them had
a lot of influence, and, having also the goods to
deliver, a very fine trade —largely bickering—was
built up. Profits raced ahead, and the dividend on
the comparatively small capital dazzled the public.
From being neglected, the stock thus became just
about the most pooular in the coal division, and
there were buyers for it when almost all others were
neglected. There is such a thing, though, as over-
loading a co. with capital; and the issue of bonus
shares in this case has been too rapid to be altoge-
ther comfortable. Of course, its position is remark-
ably good It isn’t, like the Adelaide Steamship Co.,
for instance, which, while also making rapid bonus
issues, got largely into debt. The Bellambi has no
debts to speak of; —
1905. 1910. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities . . £39,445 £12,017 £13,771 £20,793
Assets—
Mines, plant,
steamers .. 209,345 265,069 259,125 301,309
Stores and stock 4,591 7,334 8,183 11,096
Liquid assets . . 55,183 131,375 191,963 154,598
Its mines are very large (over 200,000 acres) and
well-equipped, and its colliers are among the best.
But £400,000 is a big capital; and, though the pro-
fits have for many been more .than enough to
pay a 10 p.c. div. oil that lot, the margin isn’t so
large as to hold out much hope for anything con-
siderable in the wajr of further bonus issues in the
near future. Last year’s prqfits certainly are not
much of a criterion, because labor troubles havi.
lately been numerous; but costs are higher, and an.
likely to go on being higher, ami it isn’t so ease to
“pass it on” in the export and bunkering coal trade
as it is in some others. For one thing, oil comneti
tion has a steadying effect on prices.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coat
Co. (N.S.W.) AL
Mine Writ-
Development ten
Expenditure. Off. Deficit.
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. £ 8,001 £684 £6557 ri? im
Sept., 1909.. 8,655 147 3713 8 3fl(i
Mar., 1910.. 538 193 301 g’ss.>
Nominal
Sept., 1910.. 13,716 3666
Mar., 1911.. 10,730 3746 8 68‘>
HO, 294 - 3167 |
Sept., 1911 .. Four years’ divs. on pref. - •> gm
l shares, £lO,OOO J
I 9,346 3167 >
Mar., 1912 .. Four years’ divs. on pref. - l nasi
l shares, £lO,OOO ■ / ’ S
/ 15,883 3244 n
Three years’ divs. on pref. J
Sept., 1912.. - shares, £7500; 10 p.o. I 2,690
div. on other shares, I
V £4437 J
Mar., 1913 .. 10,137 { g* 10 3177 3,959
Sept., 1913 .. 11,650 { gj. 3216 5,534
This co., which used to mine under the sand around
Newcastle Harbor, worked its patch out a while ago,
ami, by good luck or good management, or some of
both, got hold of a cheaply -developed and appar-
ently first-rate property at Cessnock. From this
Neath colliery it has now begun to make another
good living. Its reserves don’t mount very rapidly;
but it is doing now what it wasn’t wise enough to do
before—as it takes out the coal, it writes down the
book value of the mine, and is accumulating the
amount thus written off. In other words, as the
coal which represents the co.’s capital is eaten up
in producing revenue, other assets are piled up to
represent that capital—the only honest way of doing
things. Assuming that the amount added to the
pile is adequate, this means that the dividends are
dividends, and not partly return of capital. During
the past 12 months, while a fair amount has been
added to the plant, and a large amount of back
dividend has been paid up, the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities has been increased from £22,429 to
£ 24,803. A trifle of that is, however, due to in-
creased capital, which now stands at £109,749.
There are 90,000 ordinary shares and 20,000 124
p.c. pref. shares; £251 is outstanding in calls on
ordinaries, otherwise the shares are now all fully-
paid. The past half-year’s trading was hardly so
profitable as that of the corresponding half of 1912,
but the outlook is satisfactory; and, when industrial
conditions settle down a bit, and the public isn’t
quite so scared of putting money into labor-employ-
ing industries as some of it is just now, investment
in the coal section will no doubt get more attention.
It seems to deserve it.
* * * *
The Volum Brewing Co. (Geelong,
Vic.): —
Writ- To
ten lie- Re-
trofits. Dividends. Oflf. serves, serves.
Aug., 1905 £731 10p.c. = £5OO £640 £9,106
Feb., 1906 1317 10 ~ „ 500 750 £67 9,173
Aug., 1906 1010 10 ~ ~ 500 134 376 9,549
Feb., 1907 1353 10 „ „ 500 136 717 10,266
Aug., 1907 868 10 „ „ 500 127 241 10,5C7
Feb., 1908 1577 10 ~ ~ 500 523 554 11,061
Aug., 1908 959 10 „ „ 500 618 10,902
Feb., 1909 841 10 ~ „ 600 140 201 11,103
Aug., 1909 833 10 „ ~ 500 137 196 11,299
Feb., 1910 1663 10 „ ~ 500 632 531 11,830
Aug., 1910 885 10 ~ „ 501 125 259 12,089
Feb., 1911 1894 10 „ ~ 503 1372 19 12,108
Aug., 1911 1108 10 „ „ 503 750 11,963
Feb., 1912 2347 10 „ „ 503 1800 44 12,007
Aug., 1912 1275 10 „ „ 513 1000 11,769
Feb., 1913 2541 10 „ „ 574 1800 167 11,936
Aug., 1913 2072 10 „ „ 574 700 798 12,734
“A beer-pump in the pub is worth two dozen in the
scrap-heap” is evidently the golden rule the directors
are working under. Hence that £7OO mentioned as
written-off, as well as the £lBOO for the previous
half-year, goes to a Building and Plant Fund. Prior
to that the amounts in that column were merely
written off in a general way. But whichever way
it is put, the profit written off is no doubt more or
less laid aside for the drier day that may come when
Mr. Stiggins has closed another pub or two belonging
to the co. The co.’s holding of pubs is pretty ex-
tensive : rents from that source for the past six
months were £BO2, or more than sufficient of them-
selves to pay the 10 p.c. dividend. But the rent
item is only safe while the licenses are; and licenses
are always in danger these days. Yet even if all
rents were stopped—and they are not likely to be, for
as one pub is closed up go the rents of the others —
the brewery receipts would still stand by the share-
holders. These figures are moving* fast. For the
Feb.-August half of 1911 the net revenue from that
source was £782, and for the past six months
£2OBO. Apart altogether from rents, the net profit
for the six months would have been £1270 —enough
to pay the usual 10 p.c. and leave almost £7OO
to put aside for contingencies. The co.’s capital
is £11.488, and of that and the reserves, no less
than £19.756 is in the pub property before men-
tioned. That is the value of the pubs with licenses;
what it would be without licenses is another matter.
But the population of the- State is-growing, and
that means more thirst. And more thirst means
more beer, whether pubs are closed or not.
Broken Hill Block 10, one of the once-
big Barrier silver lead-zinc propositions:—
Loss. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Sept., ’O3 £ 1.77 7 Nil Mar., ’09£39,284 £lO,OOO
Profit. Sept., ’O9 28,844 20,000
Mar., ’O4 12,680 NT Mar., ’lO 3,422 20,000
Sept., ’O4 11,090 Nil Sept., ’lO 15,243 15,000
Mar., ’O5 20,438 Nil Mar., ’ll 28,991 10,000
Sept., ’O5 114,340 £15,000 Sept., ’ll 11,479 10,000
Mar., ’O6 46,804 60,000 Loss.
Sept., ’O6 49.625 30,000 Mar., ’l2 8.851 10,000
Mar., ’O7 61,945 55,000 Profit.
S»pt., ’O7 65,786 50.000 >srpt„ ’l2 36.049 10,000
Mar., ’OB 12,256 30,000 Afar., ’l3 16,861 20.00^
Sept., ’OB 22,080 ’l3 37,481 20,000
But the true profit isn’t anything like that, and to
tell why it isn’t anything like that makes a very dis-
creditable story. Just on two years ago Stanley
Low, who bad been for a long while general mana-
ger, came to loggerheads with the other part of the
management, and left pretty suddenly. In the fol-
lowing half-yearly report (March, 1912) the directors
said: “A careful re-survey has been made of the
tailings dumps already sold, and the Board regrets
that the result indicates that when these dumps are
eventually delivered a deficiency of probably 1 0,000
tons will be shown. It is probable the heavy esti-
mated shortage may be due to the previous general
managers not making sufficient allowance for tlie
contour of the ground on which the tailings were
stacked.” That most serious reflection on Low ann
Warren, the previous g.m.’s—Low especially—was
made 18 months ago. Now, without a word o
apology, the directors say that, “as the genera
manager advises that a careful survey reveals a verj
considerable surplus in one dump, which will help
to reduce the estimated shortage in other dumps,
£9660 previously written off may safely be trans-
ferred back to profits. And that £9660 is mcludei
in the £37.481 alleged to be the profit for the
half-year. The whole business reflects precious little
credit on anvbody. The Bulletin certainly hoi •
no brief for Low. who, so far as it knows, is out
this country, and has been out of it for 18 montn .
and it never put him among the top-notch manag


J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
Head Office—l-9 Third Floor Suite,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Also at
Collins House, Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
199 Winchester House, Old Broad
Street, LONDON, E.C.
And Continental Agencies.
CAPITAL £500,000
COMPANY and ESTATE MANAGERS, TRUS-
TEES EXECUTORS, ATTORNEYS, UNDER-
WRITERS, GUARANTORS, and REALTY
SPECIALISTS.
Flotations of approved Concerns undertaken.
FIRST-CLASS INTEREST-BEARING Indus-
trial and Commercial SHARE and DEBENTURE
Investments, to suit Clients.
Arrangements made for Sub-division and Sales
of Suburban and Country ESTATES.
Correspondence Invited.
Managing Director J. EARLE HERMANN
MELBOURNE Director E. LINDEN
LONDON Manager .. JOHN GOODW’YN, A.I.A.
gfßft
Established 34 Years.
THE Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co., Ltd.,
412 Collins St., Melbourne.
The Company acts as
executor,
administrator,
TRUSTEE,
AGENT.
Estates Administered Exceed £25,000,000.
Please call or write for Pamphlet.
JAS. BORROWMAN, General Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Manager.
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow i6in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911: “To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in
a year which was marked by the keenest competition
from beginning to end, is an achievement which
proves that the Colonial Mutual is a force to be
reckoned with in every sphere to which its influence
extends.”*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE, used in connection with
dredging, is a success. The co. now manufactures a
specially durable pipe for this purpose, which will
carry the heaviest and most gritty without injury
to the pipe. Particulars from The Australian Wood
Pipe Co. Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney.*
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128 B.H.P.
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. HORNSBY & SONS, LTD., S"d-
ney, Melbourne and Brisbane.*
The Engineering Directory op Australia, compiled
and classified from information supplied by Austra-
lian, British and foreign manufacturers associated
with the Engineering Trades, or their accredited
Representatives and Agents throughout Australia,
contains over 2000 entries, under 282 classifica-
tions, together with names, addresses and telephone
numbers of local agents in each State. Specially
compiled for use in Government Engineering De-
partments, Municipal and Shire Councils, Mines,
Power-houses, Workshops, Manufactories, etc. Order
from Publishers: The Petersen Printing Co. Pty.
Ltd., 444 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, ss. nett,
(posted ss. 3d.), or usual booksellers.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the. Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
J. W. STYLES & SON, Machinery Auctioneers,
Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 361 Collins
Street (main entrance), Melbourne. (J. W. Styles,
24 years expert salesman.)*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney.*
Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary, Limited, of
Footscrav, Victoria, have secured the contract for
the supply of steel pipes required in connection with
the duplication of the Bombay Water Supply. The
contract amounts to over £226,000, and the pipes
to be used are of the locking bar type, of which Mr.
Mephan Ferguson is the inventor and patentee.
Engineers will be interested to note that this Aus-
tralian invention has been adopted in preference to
other classes of piping, after critical and searching
inquiries as to the merits of the various types of
water pipes made in the world. It is worthy of
note that all machinery required, to carry out this
work has been designed and manufactured at the
firm’s Footscray Engineering Works, and will be
shipped to Bombay, where the pipes will be manu
factured.*
The H.M.A.S. Australia, now anchored in Sydney
Harbor, is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox
Water-tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street. Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. W’rite us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers. Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silbkrberg AND Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun's
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh ; Ainsworth's assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicles; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
when he was here; but when he left Block 10 and
was the uruler-dog, he didn’t get half a fair deal.
Among other things, his last published estimate of
ore was 606,240 tons. When he left, the directors
regretted to report “a serious diminution of the ore
reserves, the figures now reported (March, 1912)
being 283,500 tons.” 'this paper has reason to
believe that a subsequent estimate of Low’s wasn t
published ; and, anyhow, Time seems to be showing
that the old estimate was a good deal nearer the
mark than the new one.
That things have improved both underground and
at surface under O. B. Ward's management The
Bulletin doesn't doubt. The new mill is certainly
doing better work. That plant, however, dates from
Low’s day. Not that Low had much to do with it ;
in fact, some of the trouble between Low and the
Board was, no doubt, due to the latter calling in
George Weir, manager of the B. H. North, to advise
as a mill expert. Weir designed it. In its first
full half-year (to September, 1912) it recovered
42 17 p.c. of the silver and 68.42 p.c. of the lead ;
in the past half-year 45.27 p.c. of the silver and
71.20 p.c. of the lead. But dort’t put all that im-
provement down to better mill practice. The ore has
had a good deal to do with it —-a fact which the
directors admit: “The ore coming from the develop-
ment work on the new lode is more amenable to
treatment than the ore hitherto available.” The
development of this new lode on the western side of
the lease has been the important feature of the half-
vear. Nobody can say yet what effect it will have
on the life of the mine; but it certainly won’t
shorten that life. Ward says of it: “This lode is
opening Up in a most promising fashion, having been
proved for a length of over 100 ft. at both the 515 ft.
and 615 ft. levels, these two levels being connected by
a rise and winze in the ore body. The lode averages
about 20ft. in width, and is somewhat patchy in
values, but the ore so far opened up will average
silver, 13 p.c. lead and 9 p.c. zinc.” The ore treated
in the October-March half-year, before this lode was
tapped, averaged 10.200 z. silver, 11.9 p.c. lead and
13.1 p.c. zinc. The new lode at the present levels
is, therefore, much poorer in silver but rather richer
in lead. As for zinc, the contents may be expected
to increase lower down. The co. certainly needs this
ore. Reserves are not estimated now, but, as before-
mentioned, Ward thought there were 283,500 tons 18
months ago, and 143,247 tons have been milled since
then.
Block 10’s financial position is still excellent. The
surplus of liquid assets on September 30 was
£108,434, as against £82,181 six months earlier;
and over £BO,OOO of this is net cash. There are
100,000 shares in the co.
From a man in the business, with no axe
to grind, after inspecting the Broken Hill mines;
The North is a perfect pattern, and looks as though
it would beat the South in the long run, having the
most regular ore bodies, the best grade and the
lowest working costs on the field, besides the best
organisation generally. Weir, the manager, is accu-
mulating a reserve of ore (now about 10,000 tons) on
the surface, in case of any interruption below,
whereas the South has no storage capacity, the ore
going straight into the crushers, and if the latter
are not working the truckers are thrown idle. The
new selective flotation processes are all in the ex-
perimental stage, but they promise well. The South
people will probably adopt the Owen process, and
hope, when their slimes plant is complete -some time
next year, to treat 1000 tons of slimes weekly from
current production, and a similar quantity from
stacked slimes. These are estimated to yield 20s. a
ton net profit with lead at £l4, or another 10s. a
year in dividends. I went through the British, and was
favorably impressed. They have plenty of ore available
at every level from the sth to the 10th, but it is
patchy. The 10th level looks best of all, and the
indications in the crosscut at the No. 11 level from
Thompson’s shaft are similar to those at the corres-
ponding 10th level. Within a week or two they
should, at the 11th level, run into the big bulge of
ore which is now being opened up at the 10th. The
mill is in course of rebuilding, and will not be com-
pleted before February or March next. The Mineral
Separation process is doing good work elsewhere, and
I think the British will also be able to show good
results from it. In any case, British is likely to be
the gamble of the coming year.
A syndicate is on the stocks to relieve the
Eleanora (N.S.W.) of its troubles. _ The idea isn’t
to buy the mine, hut to acquire the interests of Tar-
butt and Janson, who have been propping up the
co. in London, where the office is. These two men
own 27,945 out of the co.’s 45,650 issued" shares ;
also they hold £5OOO 'of first-mortgage debentures.
The syndicate can hasre the lot for £lO,OOO cash on
condition that it puts up another £7500, the latter
to go to the co. and be secured by second-mortgage
8 p.c. debentures. The man who holds the option
which the syndicate is invited to buy takes nothing ;
this is the smallest amount The Bulletin has ever
known an option-holder to rake off. However, is
mentioned that if the syndicate scores, he won t be
insulted if it offers him a trifle; and it is observed
that there are £2500 worth of shares in reserve.
The present Eleanora co. has had a very brief life:
it was formed only about 15 months ago. As usual,
things cost more than had been figured on, and now,
with the plant unready, it is out of funds. The
£7500 will, it is estimated, complete the equip-
ment —anyway, make it complete enough to allow
the co. to start milling and keep things going for a
month afterwards. The ore reserves are reckoned at
23,000 tons, besides lower-grade stuff which should
pay on a big-milling basis. In any case, the syndi-
cate comes in on reasonable terms. Of its £1i,500
a total of £12,500 will be secured by mortgage, and
the plant should be worth that much for breaking-up.
The flotation of the syndicate will shift the control of
the co. from London to Australia. #
“Main Shaft” : Golden Springs looks bet-
ter in J. H. Fawcett’s report than The Bulletin
said it was, and the cleaning out of other crosscuts
at the 200 ft. level further improves the show. The
200 ft., at which level the French co’s plans give the
ore as 190 ft. long and 90ft. wide, is now cleaned up
for 140 ft. of length and 35ft. of width, and for those
measurements bulks lldwt. Above the 200 ft. there
are at least 20,000 tons of lldwt. ore ready for easy
winning, and below the 200 ft. the mine is virgin.
At the 250 ft. the ore must have been showing in two
places when the French co. closed down. It was a.
very careful closing down, with all timber secured
for a re-opening, so that the mine is excellently pre-
served after 17 years of submersion ; and the sus-
pension of work, like most other deeds of the French
co., looks sinister wherever it isn’t stupid. The
250 ft. level has been driven 180 ft., and midway a
rise went up and struck the ore, carrying it to within
a foot or so of the 200 ft. After submersion, the
water found a way out of the lode at the 250 ft., and
is now pouring" into the level, thus exposing the ore
in places. About 100 tons of ore which had run
into the levels and crosscuts has been cleaned up. It
bulks lldwt.
Golden Springs (or Brown’s Creek) seems to the
writer to be a smaller and poorer Mount Morgan,
with a similar genesis. Five-ore bodies have been
located in the vents of ancient thermal springs l —ore
bodies of flint, iron and limestone splinters, and their
binding sands, all carrying gold, which has impreg-
nated also the decomposing granite, showing in places
as a footwall. No. 2 ore body, which .shows in the
largest open-cut, and Was sampled by the French co.
for more than Bdwt., cannot be touched yet; and
No. 3 need not be worked for many years. Mclntyre,
who was an underground manager before the days
of the French co , is back in his old job, and re-
lates how he offered to break and deliver ore from
the 200 ft. at Is. 6d. a ton. Whear Roberts, Who
has stood by the mine for 10 years in the face of
heart-breaking delays, crushed 6319 tons in 1904 at
a total cost for mining, milling and removing over-
burden of 7s. 4d. per ton. In 1905 he crushed
10,933 tons for a total cost of 6s. sd. per ton.
He recovered only Bs. sd. per ton ; but the tails were
worth 15s. a ton. Of these tails 7720 tons were
cyanided in 1909 for £3422 worth of gold, or
Bs. lid. a ton. But all this was in mining
from cuts too deep for economy. All the big money
made in Brown’s Creek belonged to a time when
cyanide was unknown, and tails \vorth 3dwt. or 4dwt.
went down the creek. Fifteen head of the stampers
are to be commissioned as soon as shaft and tram
repairs are made, but the reduction scheme sure to
be followed will be coarse crushing in solution,
sliming everything, tube milling and cyanidation in
agitation. Bulk tests show a 96 p.c. extraction by
this method. The mine has a curiosity in a flint lode
in No. 2 open-cut; it averages 6ft. wide, and bulks
lldwt. of gold, discoverable, however, only by fire
or cyanide. Mining at the Golden Springs will be
cheap ; the coarse crushing and pulping will increase
the capacity of the present 60-head mill to a very
big tonnage, and as the tonnage is available, and the
samplings bulk a good half-ounce, the old mine
should be in for the best years of its life.
General-manager Bellinger, of Great
Cobar, drons a line to say that G. A. Laird, late of
Mexico, doesn’t take charge of underground opera-
tions at the big mine vice Treloar, but “has been
appointed manager of Chesney, in full charge of un-
derground and surface operations.”
“Bulli” : As an instance of the astounding
rot published at times by the daily papers, the tale
l of a special reporter on H.M.A.S. Australia re the
cussedness of South Coast (N.S.W.) coal would be
hard to beat. According to this credulous writer,
the boiler fires, during speed trials, became banked
up with ash to a level higher than the fire-doors ; the
fires could not be “drawn,” and there was unlimited
cursing by all concerned. Information was also
thrown in to the effect that, as the South Coast coal
contains 30 p.c. ash as against the 14 p.c. of Welsh
coal, the name of the former is mud for steaming
purposes. Now, all this is drivel, and must have
been pumped in by someone with an object to serve.
Boiler fires are not “drawn,” except in case of
emergency, and there is no earthly reason why they
should not be cleaned (provided the firemen keep
awake), no matter what percentage of ash, within
reason, is in the coal used. As a matter of fact,
Australian coals are all high in ash contents, the
average being about 14 p.c. ; good Welsh coal con-
tains about 5 p.c. Still, South Coast coal has been
used for firing ships under severe speed-trial condi-
tions, and there is no record of their not having been
able to avoid getting 18in. of ash on the fire-bars.
It is generally in the Foster Fraser type of journal-
ism that such absurd inaccuracies occur. The man
with the notebook lands, say, in the stokehole of a
battleship, hot-foot after a story. Information is
fired at him from several directions at oqce, which
he more or less gets the hang of. He seizes on un-
important details, magnifies them, and, in general,
gets a wrong idea of the relative importance of
things. The net result is a collection of “shop” terms
and misapplied technicalities, which are worked up
into a dish of journalistic tripe, liberally seasoned
with inverted commas and exclamation marks. The
man in the street mostly swallows this with gusto,
’this description of newspaper article is nearly always
harmless and amusing, but perverted stuff like that
concerning South Coast coal, damaging as it is to
Australian interests, is merely a disgrace to the
journal which prints it.
The British-Anstralian Oil Co., which
made a mess of things at Murrurundi (N.S.W.),
has got out of the hands of the receiver, and Mr.
Gray has arrived to take charge again. So far as
can be judged at present, the re-constructed co. will
have another £75,000 to play with, and this will be
spent in completing the second bench of retorts and
carrying through other mainly-surfaee works. It is
apparently accepted as a fact that the shale is in the
mine—shale, that is, worth 50 gallons or thereabouts
to the ton. But there are at least doubts on that
point, and if the co. were wise it wouldn’t spend,
another penny on the surface until it had made dead-
sure of its possessions underground. So far the co.
never has been able to get out 50 gallons to the
ton ; the most it could manage was about 45 gallons,
and that was for only a very brief period. Also,
unfortunately, it hasn’t been able to get much of a
market for lubricating oils and the like. Naturally
enough, engineers are loth to try new lubricators,
and the introduction of brands is a slow and
tedious process. Further, there is the keen compe-
tition of the Standard Co. and its associates in every
line, and thus far the Australian Government hasn’t
given much help to the local producer. No doubt
like the Commonwealth Oil Corporation, the 8.A.0.
has wasted a lot of money; but matters with the
latter concern seem to have been put on a much
better footing, and if this paper’s good wishes can
do it any good it has them.
Mountain Queen (W.A.) is busy sam-
pling, and in all probability will acquire the Great
Victoria. This show is some miles from the co.’s
present property, and, as hinted in a recent par., the
idea is to use it as an additional source of siioplv
for the mill. There is an immense tonnage in sight,
but most of it is low grade. The average values are,
however, considered good enough for the Mountain
Queen to make a profit on.
Meekatharra (W.A.) is rejoicing because
last month's gold output for the field reached the
record figures of 73250 z. Tb° local paper forecasts
that the 10,000 oz. mark will be reached early in the
new year. * 4
Lake View and Star is officially credited
with a development at 2100 ft., but already its value
has been more than discounted by the market. Some
time ago good values were struck in a winze from
the No. 19 level, and continued down to about the
2100 ft. workings The same values have now been
met with in a drive off the main crosscut at the
latter point, and for the first 20ft. or so assays have
been fairlv good.
* * * *
Fortune has again taken Associated Nor-
thern under its wing. The last 45ft. of driving at
No. 5 level in its Ora Banda show has assayed from
85s. to 130 s. ppr ton, and the presence of telluride
in the ore is reckoned to pulverise the theory tba +
the rich oxidised stuff exnosed in the- No. 4 lev n l
was only a secondary enrichment. The shaft is now
down to No. 6 level. Should good values be met at
this point, shareholders may be much more hopeful
about the future.
„ „ * ♦
Edna May (W.A.) proposes to “materi-
ally increase its output at an early date,” and to put
it up higher still when it starts on the treatment of
accumulated sands. This information is all very well
from a market point of view, but the co< must be
careful not to over-reach itself. Several Westralian
concerns that The Bulletin knows of did this, and
when the cry of “stand from under” came without
official warning, there was much agony and grief.
The holding of the co. has just been added to by the
acquisition of the Myrtle Consols, The value of this
lease to the Edna May is based on the possibility of
the main ore shoot dipping into it at a considerable
depth The financial strength of the co. is gradually
being built up, and it is now estimated to have about
A 8000 in reserve, and dumped sands and slimes to
the value of £5OOO. The reef is expected to be cut
in the crosscut from the new shaft at 150 ft. some-
where about the middle of November.
By treating other people’s ore and resi-
dues as well as its own, Greenfinch (W.A.) obtained
a revenue of £3506 for the half-year ended Septem-
ber, and made a profit of £1259. Liabilities at the
date of the balance-sheet were practically nil.
Machinery and other property are valued at £3223
and stores at £l3l, while cash assets are estimated
at £2243. The manager reckons that there is nine
months’ profitable work ahead of the co., and a new
reef sunk on at a point some distance south-east of
the original workings is well spoken of. But a deathly
silence is preserved regarding the future of the mine
in depth.
Mount Morgan’s explanation about the
sudden and heavy drop in the grade of ore treated
during the four weeks to October 19 isn’t convinc-
ing. The drop was from 306 p.c. to 2.44 p.c. copper,
and from 7.7Bdwt, to 6.l3dwt. gold. The explanation
—the official one, of course—is that in making prepar-
ation for the new plant it is necessary to open up
the mine in order to provide ore suitable for the
concentrator. “This ore is low grade and highly
siliceous, but, being mined, it must be smelted, other-
wise it rapidly deteriorates. The necessity of smelt-
ing this low-grade siliceous material has. caused the
reduced output.” It may have done so; but the
necessity of smelting this ore wasn’t due wholly to
the reason given. For many months the smelters
have been treating ore much higher than the average
of the reserves, and an end must come to this policy
some timp. But to deal with the explanation in
detail. Firstly, the Mount Morgan siliceous ore
does not rapidly deteriorate on exposure. Even its
most pvritic ore takes some time to do this, under
hot and rainy conditions. Secondly, there wasn’t
enough of the siliceous low-grade ore mined from
development to make a difference worth mentioning,
even if the alleged deterioration did take place. Take
the official figures supplied to the Queensland Gov-
ernment (published in the Mining Journal) from
July to October inclusive. The figures testify to
feet of driving and 160 J feet of sinking. These,
after making liberal allowance for sectional area of
the openings, give about 50,000 cubic feet, or less
than 5000 tons. That is, a monthly average of
1000 tons—a mere capful. And it may not have all
been low-grade siliceous ore. There is something
hollow about the “explanation” somewhere.
The Inauirv Board, after taking evidence
at Charters Towers, doesn’t favor the deep-sinking
scheme proposed by Tom Mills. It thinks a shaft to
3300 ft. and of smaller diameter than 18ft. will ven-
tilate the levels to 3000 ft. If the shaft is started
it will take about four years to complete, so in order
to continue development the Brilliant Deeps and
Block are pushing on with a ventilating scheme of
their own, which means that the Block shaft will
become the upcast from No. 4 level (2460 ft.). A
connecting shaft from the Block’s 2000 ft. level to
the Deeps’ No. 4 should be completed early next
year. The reefs are too patchy to make future mine
developments anything but a gamble.
Tin-mining in the Herberton (Q.) dis-
trict is much more prosperous than it was a while
ago. From the Rainbow, owned by Forrester and
Thompson, a recent crushing of 507 tons returned 61
tons concentrates, valued at £7230 The Vulcan,
at Irvinebank, for a run of four weeks, obtained 40
tons of concentrates ( £3488) from 725 tons of ore.
Average gross value, £4 16s. 2d. per ton. At the
550 ft. level there is a face of high-grade ore Bft.
wide, assaying up to 30 p.c. black tin, and down at
the 840 ft.” level there is a stoning area 33ft. x 23ft.,
bulking over 2J p.c. black tin. There is a revival
also at the Gilmore, and some good stuff is being
won by tributors and on behalf of the co. ; 147 tons
from the dump returned 4 tons-7cwt. black tin. But
the co. still badly wants another rich shoot like the
one that was worked from the Dolly Gray shaft.
Annan River (N.Q.) is to be fortified by
an increase of capital. Present shareholders are to
be offered 24,000 new shares at £l. As the shares
are nominally 10s. each, this means a stiff premium.
The co. is building a dam at a neighboring creek,
and will install a pumping plant. A bucket dredge
is also to be purchased to deal with some ground
lower down the Annan. It may be noted that the
September output was 111 tons of black tin, value
£l4OO. The new shares will have a prior claim on
profits up to 12s. 6d. per share ; they will then rank
equally with the' old shares.
Great Fitzroy (Q.) has called up its final
6d. per share to provide funds for the Laloki purchase.
The 450,000 ss. shares are now fully paid up, and the
other 450,000 are optioned. The Laloki workings
are down to 160 ft., and the outlook at that depth is
good. The ore assays from 3 to 15 p.c. copper and
3dwt. cold, and there are 170,000 tons of it proved
—and what is proved shouldn’t be more than a trifle
compared with what remains to be proved. Laloki
may yet pull Fitzroy out of the slough.
Chairman Harry Dodd says that at the
Cathcart, Ararat, out of two tons of gold, worth
£190,000, profits have been £55,000. To date
24.228 fathoms from the gutter have yielded
48,5860 z., or an average of 2oz. per fathom. Burnt
Creek Co. battled along on a 2dwt. yield with a
jangling plant at No. 1 shaft, and with the pumps
going full strokes Cathcart had a shallow .gutter,
the ground wasn’t conspicuously heavy, and the
water was comparatively light. The profit should
therefore have been much more. Dodd puts the blame
on the miner, whose efficiency, he says, has dimin-
ished bv one-half. As the contract system prevails, the
explanation isn’t conclusive. It is far more likely
that the able-bodied miners have flitted, because the
inducements to labor in the wet alluvial ground are
not comparable with the earnings and conditions on
Broken Hill and other mining fields.
Mount Lvell has joined or is joining forces
with the Wallaroo Phosphate Co. in a little scheme
to make more money out of the manure business in
S. Aus. A new co.' is to take over the interests of
the two concerns in that State, and is to. have the
extremely modest capitalisation of £400,000. Both
the original cos. are to be represented on the
Board, but it isn’t hinted that any part, of the
£2500 extra voted to the Mount Lyell directors for
supervising the superphosphate side-line is to be
abandoned. Bowes Kelly and Joe Synje hated the
work entailed in running an industrial concern, so
the junior men on the fat-feed Lyell Board are pretty
well certain to get the new job. More-
over, no love is lost between some of the
“hummers” on the Wallaroo Phosphate Board
and the Lyell seniors. With this fusion, the S. Aus.
manure business will be pretty well in one lot of
hands, which may mean toasting the farmer.presently
per medium of an “honorable understanding.”
The Primrose, at Rosebery (Tas.), has
had a good development in a footwall crosscut below
No. 2 tunnel. This crosscut has proved a new lens
that has given payable assays over a width ot loti.
There are 137 ft. of backs. For some time past the
Primrose has been shipping silver-lead-zinc ore to
the smelter at Zeehan, which, however, has had to
suspend work because ot a shortage of coke. lne
Primrose and Hercules lately amalgamated with the
smelting co. at Zeehan with a view to obtaining a
better extraction of metals from complex sulphides,
and the good development at the Primrose will put
heart into the new concern.


HEAVY, DEPRESSED FEELING.
“About 12 months ago,’’ writes Mrs. B. Neill
Patton Street, South Broken Hill, N.S.W , “I got
nasty pains across my stomach and chest, which gave
me a heavy, depressed feeling. After using various
remedies without success, I tried Chamberlain’s Tab-
lets, the first dose of which did me so much good
and gave such relief that I persevered with them
and now enjoy good health.”*
51151
6»idilircw>»** h
Peering!
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
WZ
/
ixmzn
SPECIAL
TfICATPE DinnEP
EVEPY EPI DAY EVEmnO
TABLE DTIOTE 4/s
f(TT&AnCf * CtM THAI PITT VDOOBS
ELEVATOB A> FIFTH FLOOD
FARMER'S
SYDMEY
BUCHANAN’S
Black <& White
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 3, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Cup Day in Melbourne brings its minor
joys to ardent bridge players, who stay in
Sydney while their friends are losing money
at Flemington. Bridge tables —seven make
a busy afternoon —are arranged, and a Cup
Sweep is put together in somebody’s old hat.
Husbands, who justify their existence on
these occasions, ’phone the winner’s name
from town. Savory sandwiches and other
delicacies support ladies who draw the wrong
horse. Drawing the wrong horse and dream-
ing that Jockey Lobster on Nightmare won
the Cup are topical events just now. Mrs.
A. E. Hughes, of Carthona, Darling Point,
and Mrs. VValter German give the two big-
gest Cup-bridge parties here this week.
A Natal paper has recently given, as in-
formation supplied by its London correspon-
dent, precisely the “news” that a ’Frisco
paper had a while ago. Here it is, boiled
down. “Lady Denman, wife of the Gover-
nor of Australia, is on her way back to the
commonwealth” (they give us a small c,
by the way) “to join her husband. If the
truth must be told” (apparently this un-
usual departure almost breaks the heart of
the Natal publication) “she was very loth
to leave England.... She is counting the
months, in fact, hours” (why not minutes?)
“until Lord Denman’s term of office shall
have expired. As the daughter of Lord and
Lady Cowdray she is a great heiress” (“she”
is the cat’s aunt in nursery chatter, if you
overwork that personal pronoun too long at
a stretch) ... .“It is funny that two such
brainy people as Lord and Lady Cowdray
should have had the frantic” (frantic is fine
descriptive stuff) “ambition that their only
daughter should possess the finest string of
pearls in Europe and one that would take
the shine out of the Duchess of Marlborough’s
1 am told” (presumably by the cat’s
aunt) “that Lady Denman is in the greatest
anxiety lest any of her family should pick
up the terrible Australian cockney accent,
and is taking every precaution to obviate
such a possibility.”
After this we can consider ourselves
snubbed. It is quite true that the terrihle
accent was imported about 100 odd years
ago from London. It is quite untrue that
every Australian talks like a coster address-
ing his donah. The really well-flavored
Amurkan accent (genuine vintage) is much
worse than our local article. As we hear it
(say in the U.S. play now running at the
Criterion), two-thirds of the conversation
from, the male portion of the cast is as in-
telligible as the swear-words of a Balkan
brigand. Therefore, we don’t take saucv
remarks about Australian accent from a
Murkan critic in a Christian spirit or lying
down. Parish-pump politics drove the Den-
mans out of N. S. Wales, but they’ve had a
fairly joyous time elsewhere; hence the yarn
about “counting the hours” bears a strong
likeness to a plain old lie. “Urgent family
reasons” is a much safer scapegoat. When
Governors are tired of their billets they can
always trot it out. If her Ex. is exhausted
from the alleged hour-counting process (an
old-fashioned sandglass would be helpful)
Lord Denman could, therefore, produce the
before-mentioned animal and ride off behind
it to-morrow.
Mrs. Baronet Ward and daughter Eileen
just looked in on this town on their way
back to the Dominion, via the Cup, after one
of their many flights to London.
The most heavily diamond-spangled wed-
ding of the season packed St. James’s Church
to the front steps the other evening. Miss
Mabel Preston, the only daughter of the
wealthy H. ,T. Preston, who made his pile in
the West., was the bride. The groom, Boy
Moffett King, is a grandson of the late Mrs.
Thorne, of Prestonville, Potts Point. The
bridal finery eclipsed anything the dazed
spectator has seen for some time. The dainty,
fair-haired Mabel was more or less hung with
diamonds —not diamante trimming at ss. 6d.
a yard. Her adoring papa gave her a chain
of diamonds, so long that the girl wore it
round her head as a glittering rope, and tied
it in a knot behind. A shimmer of pale
pink, like the first peep of dawn that meets
the morning papers, blushed under a foam of
lace and tulle. The tail of the bridal robe
was estimated to have been nearly as profuse
as an electioneering politician’s promises.
Bridesmaidens Dorothv King (the lucky
groom’s young sister). W. Gibbs. Neil Holden.
I. Smith and W. Holden were pale pink
and white.echoes of the pale blush-rose bride.
This sensible little person chose her lady-
helps frocks herself, so there was no last-
moment nonsense as to what these damsels
would or would not wear. Laurence Godfrey
Smith —a friend of the Preston familv and
the bride’s musical referee —presided over
the organ’s majestic roll. Mrs. Spencer
Brunton (who is the groom’s aunt) and
his new mother-in-law bustled out of the
church to stage-manage half a mile of
motors, waiting to petrol the wedding party
off to Warrinella, Kirribilli. The honk of
their horns and the mixed smell of bad eggs
and gunpowder which perfumed the air in
their vicinity attracted a crowd of sight-
seers. A groomsman in charge of four or
five pale-pink bridesmaids was walled in
by the most excited end of the street crowd,
and only escaped with his life and his top-
hat and his pink ladies after the white cot-
ton gloves of the Law had described a few
circles in the evening air.
Pretty Georgie Neild. only daughter of the
late Senator J. C. Neild. and of Mrs. Neild
(who still abides at Greycairn, Edgecliff-
road), is engaged. The happy sailor is
Lieutenant Vaughan-Lewis, R.N., of H.M.A.
S. Australia. He’s a tall, blue-eyed mariner
and a senior lootenant. Our Flagship onlv
poked its sharp grey nose into this harbor on
October 4, so Miss Georgie Neild’s black vel-
vet eyes bowled her bluejacket over in record
time.
Artist Mildred Lovett, the brilliant Tas-
manian pupil of Julian Ashton, and latterly
his colleague in the Society of Artists’
studios, is. giving up teaching to wrestle with
housekeeping. The wrestle won’t amount to
much, for the Hobart girl can toss an omel-
ette as easily as she can model a plaster
cast or paint a canvas. The lucky man is
F. L. Paterson, son of late bank-manager
James Paterson, of Sydney, and the wedding
—which will be of the quiet order—occurs
this month. A studio, in which the bride-
elect will devote her spare hours to Art, is
an important feature in the new nest.
The Midsummer Week’s Dream, which
was to have occurred on the Cricket Ground
during the first few days in December, is
postponed till April. Some genius discovered
that this excuse for raising funds to help
pay for Shakspeare’s tercentenary party
would bump into the election uproar. Hence
a resolve to let the air clear before the Bard’s
efhsry has a week out in the open.
Seaside camps for women and children
from the Outback will be pitched near
Deewhy, in the Manly-Narrabeen district.
This scheme, which ought to pay the but-
cher, baker and other urgent morning callers
by next summer, is at present yearning to
take your last shilling. Hon. treasurer
Russell Crane (16 Spring-street) will be
glad to collect all the cash you hope to win
at the Cup, or even the eighteen pence you
meant to put by for your old age.
The Girls’ Exhibition in September brought
about £350 to the Girls’ Realm Guild. This
result was served up with a minor note of
thanksgiving at the recent annual meeting of
the energetic body. As the average Exhibi-
tion in any State, for any cause, is expected
to lose the cash and temper of everyone
concerned in it, the result of the Girls’ dis-
play would be good—but for the exes. The
Town Hall rent for 10 days was a terrifying
±352. A day- and a night-watchman and a
ticket-seller at the entrance had also to be
paid for by the Guild. The kitchen in the
basement is charged for as another extra,
ihis is as logical as letting a house and ask-
ing more for the use of the scullery. The
Town Hall platform, which the
Girls Committee paid to extend, was 10s.
od. a day. Our municipal stepfathers have
the landlord instinct so highly developed
that some day they’ll make a special charge
for the use of the front door.
H. N. Southwell’s friends in Sydney are
organising a recognition of his great services
to every form of charity entertainment for
the last 25 years. As a concert manager he
was reckless of his own time and health
m en i lll7 deservin g cause knocked at his
office door. How many concerts in every
year he managed, just for love, no one is
likely to know. A meeting will take place
on November 13, at the Australia, to decide
what form the testimonial will take.
Judging by an account in the Manchester
Guardian, an Eisteddfod in its native
Wales must be a battle of voices second only
to the fight put up by Wagnerian principals
against the full blast of the orchestra. One
day’s competitions at Abergavenny (which
till August, 1913, hadn’t sheltered an Eis-
teddfod for 50 years) included the part-song
dealing with the Spartan heroes who fell at
the Pass of Thermopylae. The male com-
petitors apparently bawled themselves
hoarse,_ for the critic politely remarked that
to exhibit sheer lung-power seemed to be
their sole aim. Ella Caspers, the Goulburn
girl, sang at these concerts. The Guardian
says: “Miss Ella Caspers, a young contralto
singer of imposing power, and equally fine
presence, did better than any other artist
during the week. Even in such an intimate
son S she carried her audience away.”
As a number of English vocal stars were
engaged, the Australian girl snatched this
praise in the teeth of worthy competition.
Ella, bv the way, is going to tour Australia
next year. She leaves London with her sis-
ter in the Scharnhorst on March 16.
The Fred McQuades are still faithful to
the front stalls at the opera. The Chief
Justice Cullens were camped in the front
row of the d.c. at “Carmen.” Henry Bracy
strolls in from the Criterion to Her Majes-
ty’s o’ nights, to hear the magic music of
the overture under conductor Eckhold. That
Teuton, whose baton is such a force in the
Quinlan Opera Co., has been trimmed up
and partially shayed by some Australian
barber who has no music in his soul. Some
of the original mane is left, but it is only a
sample. Edna Thornton was a Carmen
whose appearance suggested a mixture of
strong working housekeeper (“washing not
objected to, but no shirts”) and hooligan
on the spree. It is the worst histrionic per-
formance the vocally-good artist has given
us.
Eleanora Cisneros’s industrious press
agents keep this office gorged with
information about their singing lady—the
superb Delilah and possibly unrivalled Car-
men, who, on the concert platform, during
her Sydney season, tore her magnificent
voice to tatters by frequently singing flat
or sharp (mostly flat) with all the crescendo
force she could hurl at the Town Hall ceil-
ing. This _ week’s mail has brought only a
postcard, instead of the usual bundle of
papers. . It says, in very spiky waiting, that
Mrs. Cisneros was one of the warblers at
the great Verdi Festival in Parma last
month. She took one of the leading roles in
the opera “Don Carlos.” That she took it
on the fight notes goes without saying.
The cables would have told us of
an uproar in the Italian theatre if there
had been anv falling-off the pitch as we heard
it here in 1912.
Goring Thomas, who used to wear a black
velvet coat and other picturesque garments
in this cito, has a new book, “A Strong
Heart,” on the linotype. An Australian in
England tells me: “Thomas and Valentine
Williams, the clever younv London journa-
list who is engaged to Alice C'awford, went
behind the scenes at a ‘Joseph and his
Brethren’ performance. They were talking
to actor Tree (who dropped the Beerbohm
when he lifted his knighthood). An ob-
sequious flunkey came up. ‘Excuse me, Sir
Erbert, the Duchess wants to speak to you.’
Aw,’ said the great man, ‘which Duchess?’
When you ask Londoners if they have seen
Joseph and his Brethren,’ they reply, ‘No,
we have seen too much of Isaac and his rela-
tives. ”
Artist Griiner claims to have been one of
Julian Ashton’s first pupils when the Julian
academy was in King-street. In those
days George Lambert, Thea Proctor and Sid
Long were absorbing art at the same fount.
Griiner (then a small urchin in knicker-
bockers) used to play the wag from school
and pay stealthy visits to the Julian
academy unbeknown to his mother. While
his maternal parent was arranging a musical
career for her treasure, he was showing his
juvenile ideas of how breakfast crockery
should be sketched to the sympathetic Ash-
ton. Finally a compromise was arranged.
The boy was allowed to take lessons from
the head of the academy, on condition he
pursued the five-finger exercises with all his
might and main in his disengaged moments.
His love for art is incurable. In February
he _ becomes assistant-instructor in the
Society of. Artists’ eyrie, the post formerly
held by Sid Long, and more recently by
Mildred Lovett. Griiner. the well-known
designer in Paris, is a relative of this de-
votee of the brush.
Eda Bennie, a Melbourne girl, sang the
warble, which Offenbach gives the doll
Olympia (“Tales of Hoffmann”) at last
week’s matinee. She is a pupil of Marchesi,
and has a most attractive notion of Miss
Olympia’s waxen charms. By sometimes
forcing a light, flexible soprano, however,
the Victorian singer took an occasional top
note with the sharp squeak of a pencil
scratching a slate.
The house (together with £5OO a year)
which the late J.C.W. left “to the partner
of his early joys and struggles” is one of
the deceased chief’s earlier homes. The gift
was either provided for during Mr. Wil-
liamson’s lifetime or the bequest wasn’t
mentioned in the “official” text of the will,
as supplied to the papers, for pretty obvious
reasons ; yet I don’t suppose the public was
half so gratified over any of his other disposi-
tions. The amazing thing is that any alleged
friend of the late chief’s should have gone
to so much trouble to deny what was so
greatly to his credit.
The R. H. Todds, of this town, are coming
slowly home via Cyprus. There they have a
snack with the bustling little ladv’s brother,
who is military commandant of that isle.
Later they take a glance at the Milky Way
through the huge Kodai Kanal telescope on
the roof of India.
Off to California, to grow fruit, goes Mr.
J. C. Hill, an ex-teaplanter. of Taprobane,
which is now Ceylon. He has been looking
round this continent for the last year or
less. Now he packs up for the orchard state
that you reach by the Golden Gate. Mr
Hill, who is a nephew of that high and
mighty potentate, Gen. Lord Arthur Hill
was a gravel-crusher in the York and Lan-
caster regiment in his green and salad days.
He gave up the glory of serving his country
per boot, as an officer in the above-mentioned
corps, and assiduously planted in n 1
that which cheers but doesn’t
the wander-thirst sent him this way -fi
wander-thirst is a craving that passes S,
resistance. It is even worse thin drink
When it comes upon you the best thing v!,'
can do is to pour your wardrobe into your
carpet bag, cork up your valise, and go reel
ing on the high seas. g 0 reel "
Mining-man A E. Morgans, formerlv
Premier of Mestralia, will be in Sydney ffi a
few days. He is going to open a branch of
his business in this crowded area m!
Morgans spent about 25 years of his career
in Mexico, mining and railway-building ami
he can talk metal in fluent Spanish. S ’
Two Nice Girls from wide sheen natan™
near Warwick (Q.), Mias Vera Holmes an a
her sister Ruby, are lingering here
November 8. On that date they leave for 1
holiday trip to Colombo in the" Otranto?
An article in a recent Ceylon Times
flings a bouquet at ex-Anglo-Indian F f
Wayman, of the Ceylon Tourist Bureau
here The Times remarks that the Aserapna
incident, coupled with the pressure of Vn
forced economy in Ceylon (the crash in nil,
her is probably the trouble), will result „
closing the Sydney office on December 31
Ihe unremitting and whole-souled labor of
Mr : J- Wayman during his six years’
residence in Australia—for which he has not
reaped the slightest pecuniary reward—hav ”
the Times says, “brought considerable bene-
fit to local undertakings. It is the more to he
regretted that the Sydney office must close
just as the results of these labors are felt.”
A note from “Rosna,” in Britain:—
Kettlewell. of Sydney, godmother of the
battle League, has been working hard to found a
branch among the more-or-less resident Australians
ln ? r .Y ain .' Miss Schlank and Miss George, of the
Adelaide branch, have conspired with her. and on
October _ they enticed the Australian family to the
High Commissioner’s office. The invitees responded
with such gusto that there wasn’t more than breath-
ing space, even in the corridors, and shillings poured
r„im!c the ,. lnfa " t . league most cheerfully. Captain
Collins, acting-High Commish., took the chair, but
he was in such haste to attend another meeting that
he hustled through the service with frightful celerity
and dismissed the congregation before it had
reached the first lesson. However, the infant was
bom, and will probably cut its teeth on January 26
when we here have a kind of unofficial Wattle Day. ’
A lady who gave her name as Mrs. Maw-
son had a slight tram accident in Melbourne
the other week. A Salvation Army officer
helped her into a cab and passed the inci-
dent on to the local War Cry. The London
edition of the Battle Yell copied the par
which stated (on the authority of the lady
or, rather, on the authority of the gentleman
who helped the lady) that she had come
from England to meet her husband, the
leader of the Antarctic Expedition. Prof.
David, who is regarded as an authority on
everything down South, from boiled blubber
to the domestic affairs of Polar wanderers,
has been wired to from Adelaide re the truth
'or otherwise) of this statement. As Dr
Mawsnn is engaged to a girl at Broken Hill.
Adelaide and Sydney profs, can’t make head
or tail of the incident. I can’t either; but
I really don’t think the Broken Hill girl—
whom Mawson met at Adelaide Uni., of
which she is a graduate—will leave off get-
ting her trousseau ready. The wedding-date
isn t a fixture yet, of course; but it will
probably be within three or four months.
N.S.W. Tourist-officer Jack Cormack,
Mr s. Jack, two youngsters, the Teddy-bear
and the canary go off to London in the
Otranto on November 8. Mr. Jack has been
loaned to Commissioner-for-Irrigation Wade,
and will turn up his cuffs to work in Percy
Hunters London office. G. G. Neil takes
his chair in Sydney. During the last few
years Cormack’s great length has thrown
its_ shadow over the baggage of many poli-
ticians and others who have fled through
our scenery with the whiz of sky rockets.
• e u S un ifl u e opportunities of observ-
ing how globe-trotting lords knock the top
off an egg, and. of noting the humility of a
distinguished visitor when ordered to bed
by his valet. For 12 months Long
John will tell the other John all
about i anco and other well-watered pas-
t«,res' ,^ e Sydney office gave him a send-
off meal at Sargents’; and Mrs. Jack was
farewelled at the Wentworth.
Skipper Doulton, of the inter-State craft
Canberra, which raced the new Katoomba
to Melbourne and won by a wave’s length,
is an old Bedford (Eng.) Grammar School
boy- This is possibly one of the reasons
why the jovial Doulton likes to be ahead of
competition. Bedford Grammar School is,
or used to be, a noted caning ground for
young gentlemen who hoped to get
in front of everything their own size.
Col. „ Fred Burnaby, the “dashing sab-
reur, as a fond biographer calls him, who
made the famous ride to Khiva, is always
spoken of as one of the star pupils. The
grateful manufacturers of certain pills pro-
bably remember him as their best adver-
tiser. Burnaby didn’t exactly say he never
would have .ridden to Khiva if he hadn’t
swallowed, a consignment of those pellets;
but he said nearly everything else in their
favor.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Bracelet Watches
Latest English and Continental Designs. High-class, reliable time-
keepers; comfortable, convenient secure Bracelets. Inspection
invited. Write for New Large Illustrated Catalogue
, c\vis s
: sr is«>»n ,V,nS
ell
«■» •"**
r' . iV Rac^'
nSt
Hardy Brothers Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter St., Sydneys 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
EWfi
- *
<6
't
7
***** ®nrr» -
w ■- / -
A*\d*> S
.v
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 1/1.
JUST PUBLISHED—
“Bully Hayes: Buccaneer”
and Other Stories
By LOUIS BECKE.
(Author of “ My Native Wife,” “ By Reef and Palm,” etc., etc.)
With Portrait, and Illustrations by Norman Lindsay.
Price, l/« ; Post Free, 1/1.
The name of Louis Becke is sufficient guarantee that the writing is strong, dramatic and
interesting, and no man knew “the Islands” better, or had more thrilling experiences there, than
this well-known author. Having served under the famous “Bully Hayes,” his personal anecdotes
anent that worthy are doubly valuable, whilst his other stories are amongst the best, as they are
the last, that Becke ever penned. The Author’s photograph, specially prepared for this work, is
characteristic and lifelike, and is a memento well worth possessing.
A racy sketch of the author’s chequered career forms a fitting introduction to his final effort.
Sodger Sandy’s Bairn.
Bv A. BATHGATE.
With six Illustrations by Harry Julius, and a cover design by Percy Spence.
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
Mr. Bathgate is new to Australian readers, which is unfortunate for both author and readers,
for “Sodger Sandy’s Bairn” displays such an amount of ability that it seems a pity he did not ven-
ture sooner. He gives us some splendid pgn-pictures of Scotch and colonial types, describes the
early gold rushes and their attendant excitement with wonderful vividity, charms us with his insight
into human nature, possesses a command of the Scotch vernacular that reminds one of J. M. Barrie
or lan Maclaren, whilst his fund of pawky humor is rare and refreshing. Scotch people especially
will welcome this book and want to know more of its author.
SELECTION STORIES
By STEELE RUDD.
ON OUR SELECTION.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM-
THE DASHWOODS.
THE POOR PARSON.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
FOR LIFE.
DAD IN POLITICS.
THE BOOK OF DAN.
By SUMNER LOCKE.
MUM DAWSON —BOSS. THE DAWSONS’ UNCLE GEORGE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
lIIU
\\m
>5
%
m
wt
$
-1!
S
~r
V,
A
w
w
O'V
JHMUt
KiJiK-.s?
SiiH&iili
Are you waiting until you can afford it? You can afford it »@w. For
here at Pianola Hall you can make terms—the most attractive terms of
purchase—on whatever instrument you may select from the lowest price
to the highest.
Waiting until you can afford your Pianola Player-piano, does not bring
you nearer to owning it. It only postpones your pleasure. Waiting even
another day only shortens by so much the happiness which the Pianola.
Player-piano will bring to your home.
MODERATE MONTHLY PAYMENTS WHEN DESIRED.
LIBERAL ALLOWANCES ON OLD PIANOS.
-at the Pianola Piano-
and play the world’s
greatest music.
You are ‘‘going to have” a Pianola Player-
Piano but you ought to have it now.
There is never any wondering “what shall I do to kill the time” in homes
where there is a STECK PIANOLA PIANO.
From the moment it is installed you will find it hard to resist its fascina-
tion.
The money spent for a STECK PIANOLA PIANO is something more than
money spent for passing pleasure.
The Pianola Piano stands for EDUCATION, for RECREATION, for
RELAXATION from the cares of the day, for a broadening of the mind,
for an insight into the wonderful art of music. It is something the
whole family can enjoy and will profit by.
The STECK PIANOLA PIANO has founded a new school of music-lovers.
It is the most widely imitated musical instrument ever produced. Yet
the artistic qualities that gave the original its world-wide success have
not been closely copied. Remember, if you want the Pianola Piano’s
efficiency, you must have the Pianola Piano itself.
On sale only at PIANOLA HALL.
Let us send you one of our Catalogs. We will send it free if you will
write us. Ask for Catalog T.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
357 Georg e Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE / London, Berlin, New York, etc.
k ,, O .N T Mf Vr
a
tum 'MI CUMAN IM»||


5?-
s /■) t A
rj&m
%sk
WA
m
m
UK
>•■;
%
i ?-
L|U
3®
<.C oi r
\\ * v
vv-.i
‘W.'V
MEN’*S STRAW
BOATERS
Newest Styles at Farmer’s.
Style, quality, value and coolness—
these are the ideal essentials desired
in Summer Headwear—-essentials per-
fectly combined in Farmer’s Straw
Boaters. The example shown is fitted
with the celebrated Bon Ton Ivy
Leather, which ensures thorough ventila-
tion and true comfort in the hot
weather.
Brims: 2J and 2i inches.
Prices: 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, & 10/6 each
Swiss Straw Boaters, extra light
weight. Prices: 6/6 and 7/6 each
WE PAY THE CARRIACE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
“The Fashion in Fragrance ! n
ParfGri)
Lilas
The essence of the Lilac Bloom!
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per=
fume in Australia. Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of all Stores throughout Australia
Sole Agent—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Befined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 3, 1913.
.My Dear Yarrie, —
Melbourne was quite happy on Derby
morning, and it wasn’t entirely due to the
line weather. Chronic racegoers always
start the chief horse carnival like the op-
timists they are. The tips are all dead
certainties, and there’s money enough to
go on with; also, the bill hasn’t yet come
in for the wife’s sumptuous gear. The
motors whirred down Oollins-street to the
cafes, and the chauffeurs abandoned the
steering wheels and hurried in to get ham-
pers carefully ordered a week in advance.
Early women-racegoers and a few men fore-
gathered at morning tea, while business hus-
bands scrambled through urgent affairs with
the race glasses ready on the desk. Bright
sunshine and a harmless baby-breeze brought
out the dresses, till the grey streets glowed
like a garden. Heaven was hurriedly
thanked for its perfect weather arrange-
ments between sips of tea.
G.-G. Denman was too keen on the racing
to wait while his lady finished her toilette.
He arrived on the course early, and
promptly started the business of the day.
in the afternoon, when the rest of the house-
hold arrived in state, his Ex. was on hand,
and gravely took part in his programmed
arrival-turn. Up to that Anthemed mo-
ment he had not been present. The open
carriages rolled majestically up the course,
and the only variation from the pomp of
Cup Day was that the postilions were not
powdered. They weren’t even shot. The
Denman dame wore a startling modern edi-
tion of Joseph's coat. It was pink-purple,
white and turquoise-blue, shot with green.
The lady inside the garment drooped or
flopped in the fashionable manner. Rear-
Admiral Patey’s nose was surrounded with
smiles, and he wore a buttonhole of corn-
flowers. The Barttelot dame added to her
height by a large green windmill of tulle in
her hat. Mrs. Guise was merely the ad-
vance agent of her own ostrich feathers.
One of the visitors to the vice-regal box was
wrapped in a purple chiffon cloak. Miss
Knatchbull-Hugessen wore, her ridiculous
cretonne chair-cover coat and a satisfied
smile. The John Maddens helped to fill the
official pen. Help Burnham, of the Den-
man’s staff, brought fiancee Maggie Niall
along to have a word with the house party.
Maggie, who is just back from her Japan
tour, wore purple and smiles.
Leoni Peterson-Mackworth looked like a
nice little lump of cocoanut ice, as she tried
to keep step with her tall, military hus-
band. Mrs. Dorothy Vane Menzies was
doomed to walk the lawn all day. The
dressmaker had put a small posy of flowers
on her dress, and if she sat down that posy
would be flattened. As the dress came from
Paris, to crush the posy or alter its location
would have been plain sacrilege. Mrs. Den-
ison, from Sydney, sailed the lawn in the
expensive simplicity of a white cr§pe gown.
Miss Milne stepped with her in black. Mrs.
Claude Reading looked adorable in a mole-
colored chiffon coat and a grey frock that
gave no sign of how she had got into it. It
looked like a case of burglary. Mrs. Wills-
Alien had a batch of pretty Sydney girls
with her; they resembled a bundle of fluffy
kittens, and Harry Chisholm’s young
daughter Sheila heightened the effect by
wearing a large pink bow. Mrs. Stephen
Brunton steered a very stylish team of
daughters and nieces. The Sydney women’s
duds are really wonderful, and rouse a chorus
of envy and helpless rage wherever they are
seen.
Mrs. Bowes Kelly paraded in black
and white, and Mrs. Miller ruffled her neck
feathers over blue. Mrs. Geoff. Syme posed
near the terrace geraniums in a black chif-
fon race coat, and sister Mrs. Thwaites
looked a day dream in pink. Secretary
Byron Moore supported his white high hat
and practised the art of conversation in the
Governor’s crate. There was such a rush
of exhibits in that section that the kitchen
chairs had to be requisitioned. Mrs. Willie
Kerr, from Sydney, arrived this year with a
license to drive her own car. Last year a
hired machine broke down and stranded her
in the waste. She eventually arrived at
Flemington wuth her party on a motor-lorry.
Hay, of Manara station, has come back as
a member of the V.R.C. after 20 years’
absence. He was always a keen racing
man, but for years he deserted Flemington
and only raced his horses at country meet-
ings. Aggie Thorne (Mrs. Deery) hailed
Melbourne friends in a blue dress which
matched her eyes. Mrs. Harry Kirkby
looked like an animated banana in yellow
from feather-ends to show-tips. Many Dago
brigands in charge of fruit-stalls looked at
her admiringly. Dr. and Mrs. O’Gorman
Hughes and the Thomas Hughes pair were
present. (They were there for the races, so I
don’t mention their clothes.) Mrs. Glenloth
Peter looked cool, bound stylishly in white
cloth.
As usual, the Rupert Clarke lady provided
the dress convulsion of the day. Her black,
clingsome skirt was cut to represent trouser-
ettes without actually being them, and round
her waist w T as an absurd little plush crino-
line which did not reach to her knees. It
was wired out in a low-comedy way, and
bounced gently at every step. Rupert Clarke
lagged behind during the promenade.
A few lunch parties found plenty of room
to eat under the vines. Derby Day is not
the best for lunch parties. The pea-
cocks do not settle down to eat until the
tine feathers have been shown on the lawn
after two o’clock, in the week the
clatter in the feeding-paddock is deafening,
and the tangle of tables, top hats and guests
bewildering. The Derby gazers made up
parties on the course for the various theatres,
and the Savoy hummed at supper time.
The Naval and Military Ball happened on
Derby eve, as usual. Red roses on blue
strings marked off the dancing area, and
flags and electrics the promenade. Nine
o’clock was the appointed dancing hour. The
vice-regals burst on the scene an hour later.
The advance toot of their motors simply
paralysed the preliminary waltz. The alleged
revellers ignored the pleading dance-music
and swarmed round the entrance, or scuttled
upstairs to the balcony. All the field-mar-
shals present formed a square close to the
entrance, and the band blew a few bars of
the Anthem. A dancing-master backed like
a well-trained horse, and cleared a path to
the dais, where tall palms stood to attention
in blue draperies. The G.-G., heavily deco-
rated with orders and things like that,
walked with Colonel Burston’s wife. The
Denman dame was dressed in a little pink
brocade and a peck of diamonds. John
Madden’s wife put seven diamond stars in
her hair, and wore black. Daughter Lesley
was conspicuously absent. Mrs. Hennessy
wore a livid shade of mauve under a lace
overdress. Mrs. Burston’s black clingsome
lace w T as what Grandma would call “ele-
gant.” Rear-Admiral Patey effaced himself
as much as possible in the procession, but
kept station in the lancer evolutions. Gen-
eral Gordon had a perfectly lovely time
dancing Two Steps. Admiring girls say
there' would be no wallflowers at all if
every man did his dancing duty like the
General. Talking of wallflowers, the posi-
tion is really desperate when the wealthiest
wool-maiden in Victoria has to sit lonely in
a corner while half a dozen young naval men
yawn in a bored way under cover of the
palms. Hasn’t the Navy got a social intel-
ligence department? Didn’t they know she
was rich?
Mrs. Isaacs wore a gold lace panel on
her gown and brought along clever daughter
Nancy, who cheerfully admitted that she had
only come for the supper. Mrs. Miller, mag-
nificently trimmed with opals, brought niece
Belle White, who wore her own magnificent
red hair. Mrs. Leslie Stuart was a quiet pic-
ture in pastel tints. Mrs. Moss wore purple,
with a blue sash and red roses. Mrs. Shel-
ton, an imposing matron, brought her boys
and saw that they danced. Dave Lilley,
who has a classic profile and is rated
as an eligible, danced as if he were being
paid an insufficient wage. Warriors of all
ranks and shapes cavorted for the honor of
the army. Tettie Appleton, daughter of an
old officer and one of the cheeriest partners
in the room, wore black ; while the Fairbairn
daughter, in several colored tulles, looked dis-
contented. One of Frank Madden’s daughters
wore pantaloons of blue and gold and tried
to disguise them with a lemon-tinted train.
Mrs. Jack Winter Irving dazzled in bide and
silver, and a bridesmaid from the latest
Sydney wedding was noticeable in a scant
black dress.
The gold-laced hosts of the cruiser En-
counter have sent out cards notifying guests
that their marine revel, alongside the Town
Pier, at Port Melbourne, has been postponed
to Mondav, November 10. The evening first
selected (November 7) turned out to be the
dancing property of the august Australian
Club, so the Encounter men had to shift
moorings.
Last week G.-G. Denman and his dame
found a spare hour in the engagement ledger
and filled it with a McCormack concert.
They arrived very late; but the watchful
pianist had kept some of the Anthem up his
sleeve and the audience was duly warned of
the vice-regal approach. Her Ex. wore a
weird grey cloak, which was excitedly
conned, whereas Miss Knatchbull-Hugessen
paraded in garments that attracted no notice
whatever. Nevill and the
round-eyed Captain Pollock hovered de-
votedly about the party. Miss Soprano
Huxley was in (and out) of a black-and-
white gown, decorated behind with an im-
mense green obi bow. By the way, Mrs.
Ted Tait, a fluffy circumstance in creamy
fixings, partied with some friends who had
farewelled her and husband Ted with ex-
pensive and indigestible food, by way of
preparing them for the trip to Sydney.
G.-G. Denman has been re-elected presi-
dent of the Melbourne Polo Club. The polo-
ists are having a preliminary dust-up this
week at Kooyong.
Last Friday the University Students
packed the new Melba Hall to listen to and
look at George Reid. The Vice-Chancellor
took the chair and still had it when the
entertainment ended. George isn’t likely to
play a return season. The boys say that
he is satisfactory as far as he goes, but
why doesn’t he go farther and dance?
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme gave an afternoon
tea-party to about 200 people on Thursday
last to introduce sister Margery, otherwise
Mrs. Thwaites, a pretty young matron from
England. The weather broke down badly,
but the Syme house is big and cosy, and the
guests took refuge in its many corners. Mrs.
Geoff, wore a Fortuni frock —a stencilled
blue-and-gold thing wrapped in a grey chif-
fon sheath. Mrs. Thwaites had lace tuckers
in the neck and sleeves of her sky-blue crepe
dress. Mrs. David Syme looked brisk and
youthful in black. All the pretty girls and
some others belonging to the river suburb
came along in muslin frocks; and shed fur
and rain coats in the hall.
The Grand Hotel held whet was officially
described as an “Arrival Tea ” the day be-
fore the Derby. About a hundred hostesses
booked tables, and, in addition, the big din-
ing-room had all the round tables out. A
new niece has come across from Westralia
to share the fun with the adopted Bigjohn
Forrest daughter, and with their help the
dame entertained a big party, which included
tenor McCormack’s Italian-looking wife.
Mrs. Sideton entertained Mrs. George Reid
and daughter Thelma. Well-dressed unem-
ployed were present in force, and some of
them listened to the musical programme.
Mrs. Isaacs, assisted by daughter Nancy,
hostessed at Cliveden Mansions last Thurs-
day afternoon. Five hundred guests came
along and showed by their presence what a
lot of spare time there is in the country.
Miss Borrough married the immensely tall
lawyer Kiddle on Thursday last. It was a
sedate wedding without any petrol fumes,
old-fashioned carriage-and-horses being uti-
lised for transportation purposes. Mr.
Kiddle has trained his girl well as a help-
mate. Since the engagement she has been
doing the extra-special typewriting in his
office, and means to persevere with the key-
tapping.
From London “Rosna” drops me a line
to say that the Hon. John Boyle, who is
booked for marriage with Ethel, daughter
of Justice Hodges, of Melbourne, is a mem-
ber of the Royal Flying Corps, aviation be-
ing the one trade in which the British peer-
age’s young man may indulge without risk-
ing anything worse than a broken neck.
The same mercurial colleague tells me of
the marriage in Britain of Phyllis Jameson,
granddaughter of the late Justice Hensman,
of Westralia, and daughter of a former Com-
missioner for Lands in the same sandy
State. The bridegroom was Lionel Haver-
croft Green, and the ceremony was a very
frilly one, with a silver and brocade bride
and six quaint maidens in pink embroidered
with caps of Irish lace.
Doris Robb is to marry Dr. Rupert
Downes, on Thursday, the 20th. The bride-
groom has the rank of Major, so the wed-
ding should be brightened with much gold
lace.
Arthur, son of the Robert Harpers, is to
be married next month. Miss Barton, a
sister of Mrs. Gordon Knox, is the girl who
is collecting the trousseau, and all Beacons-
field and Berwick are agog. However,
Prahran refuses to be convulsed, and the
glacial calm of Collingwood is refreshing to
witness.
The new Melba Hall, which is to shelter
the University Conservatorium people, was
opened the other Wednesday by G.-G. Den-
man. The Denman dame, in blue, with
cream punctuations and a black tulle head-
piece brought along most of her house party.
At the end of the programme Chamberlain
Nevill dived into the audience and emerged
leading the Peterson daughter Leoni and
her bridegroom, Captain Mackworth. After
which Leoni sat with the Denman lady, who
made a flattering fuss of her.
George Armstrong, son of the songful
Melba, arrived with his second wife the
other day. After the Cup excitements, the
pair will retire to Coombe Cottage, Melba’s
comfortable Lilydale house.
There is serious news of the health of
Dr. Clendinnen, the X-ray specialist who
went to London for the big Medical Con-
gress. He underwent an operation, and the
latest bulletins report a bad collapse.
Mrs. Davey, Melbourne’s ex-Mayoress, is
reported to be on the road to recovery again.
The lady has undergone two operations.
The grateful inter-State manufacturer
delegates, who have had Mrs. Ivy-Deakin-
Brookes as chief hostess, presented that lady
with a picture by Australian artist Pen
Boyd. This looks like an inspiration ; most
people for their kindnesses have to suffer
marble clocks.
Henry Lingham threatens to give a
“unique lecture” at the Austral Salon on
Wednesday, the 19th. Lingham, who bursts
into occasional verse on the subjects near-
est his heart (naughty man!), proposes to
preach “The Religion of Beauty,” with all
the fervor of an ancient Greek. He has the
Elevation of Humanity in view, and he
wants the Glory that was Greece to be ours.
Also at the Salon the Shakspearians will
assemble on Friday this week. Phoebe Bar-
nett and Claude Hall are billed to recite a
Rosalind and Orlando scene from “As You
Like It. Frank Russell, the hon *
the society, will talk of the : ? f
Jacques, and Dr. J. p. Wilson win a- Cloly
the artless simplicity of old man Adam'S
relic of a bygone age when servants sweS i
tor dutys sake, without any sordid Teeard
tor mere wages. Orlando’s allusion
Adams loyalty is always interesting *
showing that even in Shakspeare’s time th
uppah classes were sighing over the s “ v
question. Ivat U
Nordica, heavily jewel] *1 h*
carolled in the Town Hall on Saturday mg p'
with an elaborate screen of flowers' beifir i
her and heaps or vegetable matter in from
Society, carefully enamelled and show n.
Tie usual acreage of bare shoulder, gathered
in the front chairs, and the house was sa k
factory. The Maddens represented the vice
regal class, and big Parson Hughes occupied
one chair with difficulty. Pretty Mrs. Shim
man, with paddy green in her hair
wm, Mrs. Ambrose Pratt; the CaipeXl
heeds listened with tw T o ears apiece* arul
Mrs Hugh Patterson applauded between
two daughters.
The Melbourne friends of Kathleen Wat-
son Deardon —now domiciled in Queensland
where the timber comes from—are waiting
impatiently for her “Later Litanies of Life"
Lothian will publish it in the New Year \
recent fourth edition of Kathleen Watson’s
original English Litanies, the sweetly senti-
mental imaginings of her young spinster
days,_ has whetted one’s appetite for the
promised Litanies up-to-date. These dreams
of her Australian married life are pretti-
sure to satisfy the eternal feminine craving
for “a good cry,” the authoress being, in
fact, a buoyantly humorous matron whose
fancy turns naturally to thoughts of grief
and woe.
The returned tripper who unpacks a trunk
of imported clothes won at the European
bargain counters and refers slightingly to
local shops as out of style and unreasonably
dear may note that the Grey-Egerton ladv
actually sends to her native land for certain
chiffons, which, she says, are not procurable
in London at the same price. I love to hear
of these little economies amongst the rich!
Widow otaughton’s youngest daughter and
the youngest daughter’s husband (his name
is Eric Byron Moore ) are preparing for
another trip to San Francisco.
A returned squatter-woman thought she
was making rather a hit when she bailed
up Mrs. Pearson with the remark, “I sup-
pose this seems nothing to you after the
Thames Henley?” She was fearfully aston-
ished, though, when the visitor murmured.
“By no means; this is the first Henley I
have seen.”
. The latest importation for the dancing
girl is the Subway Glide. Several Society
cliques are practising it in strict seclusion.
It is said to be more audacious than any-
thing yet seen here. If that is the case, it
will have to be extensively sub-edited before
it gets on to many dance programmes-
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
On Monday' there was a meeting at Government
House of those interested in the big fair which is
being organised with the object of raising monev to
enlarge the Royal Institution for the Blind. A'full
house eventuated—but, as I said, the meeting was
at Government House. People manage to work in
a vice-regal atmosphere who never toiled before in
their lives.
The relatives of a returning widower of means are
contradicting the rumors of his engagement with
frenetic energy. Suffragism hath no fury like the
relatives of an affluent widower in the presence of
one who speaks of his (the widower’s) approaching
nuptials as though the tragedy were a mere trifle.
Dr. Kenneth Fry, the one-time Rhodes scholar,
intends to erect his professional sign-post in this
township. He held a Government billet in the Ter-
ritory for some time, but had a species of argument
or row with the haughty folks who run that pretty
little place, and. now all is over between him and
them and it.
Miss Dora Beresford is here on a visit from Maori-
land. She is staying with the Alec McCullochs in
North Adelaide. They, by the way, have just heard
of the death in England of Lance McCulloch, as the
result of a shooting accident. He was the only son
of the Duncan McCullochs, who owned Eden Park,
near Mount Barker, some years ago. His death
means that there is no male representative of the
younger generation of the family.
The Pittendrighs gave a “Dandy” party on the
opening night of that combination; also a supper
at Jackman’s Caf<s. And yet there are miserable
ones who hint that we don’t see life here, as Paris
and Berlin understand the term.
As a matter of fact, the place is fairly seething
with excitement. Thus on Sunday morning there
was a record thunderstorm—such a manifestation as
no city on earth could better. The streets ran with
water —which is so much pleasanter than the blood
which appears to be a feature of the older civilisa-
tions from time to time. Homing church-goers
waded to their midday meal ankle deep—occasion-
ally knee deep—in the fluid. Others, less resolute,
remained penned in graveyards and the like till the
waters subsided—the tram service looking dolefully
over the fence the while. One city church leaked so
that the congregation had to hoist its collective
gamp and listen to the sermon through the rents.
Miss Emily Reynell is off to England in December.
I expect she reckons that even London can’t show
anything worse in the climatic line than we went
through on that awful Sabbath.
A gross and a half of bowling clubs were opened
on Saturday. At Geelong, Victoria Drive, in the
South Park lands and elsewhere tea, bunting and
whisky were flying like monoplanes.
The Misses Vincent were given a farewell tea at
Manoah, the J. H. Symons’ picturesque house at
Upper Sturt, the other day. They are off to England.
Sincerely yours.
JOHANNA.


,
'
-
-
:
m &
.
BDpgZ- r t -
MiSKdv >r'A
N
"V
m* :
/L
.* . ' : . ..
;* :
>
nam MM
, - ■ L- cv* ~,-Vf
T* ' r ;*p
% >r a'
H
f :v v ■• ■
$
r
'n
" 5
f* :>
a m
■
/
■
PW
*«**"«§»! IMPS-—,,
r
»• «c,
■ ii
T ,
Joseph Simpson , R.B.A,
Copyright , John Dewar & Sons , LM.
PRINCE CHARLIE
Picture is the Second of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR &> SONS. L T " Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth & London


iwv Nog
20 Years on the
Market
Hasrit Scratched Yet!!
The Best of All Cleansers
On all Metal and Enam iware, Windows, Mirrors,
Baths, Paint Work, etc., it produces an absolutely
clean and sparkling surface.
CLARTON HODGSON & CO. LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide & Wellington, N.Z.
Wholesale Distributing Agents.
THe World's Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
SUNSHINE
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &, Adelaide,
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SUSANNAH AND THE ELDERS.—
LATEST VERSION.
On June 30, 1912, there were 2054 in-
dented discolored seamen engaged in the pearling
industry at Broome; for the year ended June 30,
1913, there had been added an excess of 69 arrivals
j . T . ~ ,
over departures. Japanese were in the vast major-
ity, Malays next, then Javanese, Filipinos, Chinese
and a few remnants. Of the crowd, 34 died in the
12 months to the end of last June, 11 from diver's
paralysis (eight of them Japs), three from cardiac
failure due to spinal hemorrhage, and the rest from
a variety of causes, including murder. In the list
of offences of this motley crew were 10 charges of
being prohibited immigrants. In eight cases the
accused were Japanese, the other two being Malays,
Four were remanded, and in the case of each of the
other six the charge was withdrawn. Which means
that for 12 months the responsible department made
six failures and four possible failures out of' 10
tries. Anybody who can do worse than that is
entitled to unfavorable consideration.
“Marloo” : Bentley joined the force before
the education test was strict. He was, for all that,
a great stickler for formality, and believed in per-
forming his duties on time and in order. One day
when Mrs. Bentley was absent in town, Bentley
arrived at headquarters with a stranger, who had
been hurling round sulphurous language and chal-
lenges to fight, and had refused to close down. When
Bentley had reduced the prisoner to a reasonable
mood, the missus, who performed the clerical duties,
was still absent; so he requested the gentleman to
write his name and certain particulars in the charge
book. The gentleman told him to have one himself.
Bentley swore and growled a while, then grabbed the
pen. “What’s yer name?” he asked. “Bertram
Scarborough,” lied the gentleman, whose name was
Harris. “Spell it over slow,” commanded Bentley.
“Get work,” said the false Bertram. Bentley con-
sidered, put the pen to the paper, and wrote t-o-m
j-o-n-e-s, and entered it in the book. “Where do ye
come from, Jones?” “Collarenebri,” stated Jones.
Bentley’s request to “spell it” was met with a fur-
ther insulting remark. “M-o-r-e-e,” he droned, while
he wrote. “What have ye with ye, Jones?” “A
portmanteau,” answered Jones. “B-a-g,” wrote
Bentley. Both Harris and the charge-book failed as
guides to the orthography of “riotous behavior,” so
it had to be “D-r-u-n-k.” Then, seething, the Law
grabbed the false Bertram by two hind portions, and,
with a push and a kick, sent him hurtling into the
cell. “Be Heavens, Jones,” said Bentley, “it’s a
lucky man ye are that the missus is away.” And
Harris wonders to this day what Bentley’s wife had
to do with the case.
* * * *
Gordon G.” : I’m into this Multi Synony-
mous Word Competition, started by “The Immature
Male’ (B. 25/9/’l 3). He went on “drunk.” Igo
on “dead.’ Let the cadaver start on his mad career:
“Died, crossed the bar, breathed his last, beered his
last, passed in the checks, thrown a seven, kicked
the bucket, gone on the last journey, passed on to
the undiscovered country, hopped the twig, laid
down his knife and fork, blued it, skied it, pegged
out, crossed Jordan, gone to Heaven, gone to the
Jasper Sea, snuffed, passed on to a better land,
returned to dust, at the cold-meat picnic grounds,
thrown in his alley, made his final exit, passed into the
valley of the shadow, turned up his toes, passed into
the Great Beyond, last-gasped, departed from us dear
brethren, shot his bolt, now in Paradise, with the
angels, gone to sleep, closed his eyes, up the spout,
crossed the Styx, popped off, on the Stygian shore,
gave up the ghost, paid his debt to Nature, gone the
way of all flesh, snuffed his candle, came to an un-
timely end, numbered with the slain, gone to his
last home, with the great majority, dead as a door-
nail, dead as mutton, dead as a herring, dead as
nets, launched into Eternity, gathered to his fathers,
in Davy Jones’s locker, in the grave, blown out,
joined the innumerable caravan, perished, become
one of the immortals, fallen by the wayside, taken
wing,” etc. And, finally, there is the dullest and
most sordid of all: “Sacred to the memory of
Thomas Smith.”
* * * *
“TiakiThe get-rich-hurriedly Yankee is
great on appointing “representatives.” A friend of
mine, in reply to a communication from Maoriland,
received two sheets of type-written matter appoint-
ing him a certain firm’s representative for the whole
of Maoriland. They must be people of simple faith,
these wooden nutmeggers, as per
their note. “Our opinion of your
ability and standing is favorable,
and we believe that with our new
and comprehensive system of con-
structing our ‘road force’ by mail
we can give you all the necessary
information, so you will make a
success of the work from the
start,” etc., etc. All this faith in
a man that they didn’t know
from a bag of sand. He had
authority to go to every town,
hamlet and Maori pa in the
Dominion and appoint sub-agents
all over the face of the cow-juice
country. He was not to sell any
goods, but to appoint others to
do so, for which he was to re-
ceive the sum of 20 dollars
per week, with a com. of 15 per-
cent. on all goods sold (payable
every four months), and hotel,
train, car, baggage and other ex-
penses. It seems all right and
rosy up to here, but there is one
disappointing condition. The ap
plicant must send 10 dollars foi
a sample outfit. It seems a pity
that so much faith should fail
short of the Complete Ham by a trumpery 10
dollars.
* * * •
“Trotter”: The Melbourne Zoo is just
reinforced with kangaroo. Falkiner’s Moonbria,
Deniliquin, is sanctuary for birds and animals; and
varieties elsewhere becoming extinct are there found
in abundance. A kangaroo drive, however, became
necessary. Director Le Souef, of Melb. Zoo, joined
in. A wire-netting yard had been constructed on
the Yanko boundary fence, with a wing about half a
mile long for yarding. Horsemen co-operated with
four parties in motor-cars. About 500 kangaroo were
sighted, but most of them broke away. Fourteen
were taken alive, and of these nine reached Melb.
Zoo safely. They were of the red variety. One old
man, of the Macropus Rufus sort, is the largest ever
seen by Overseer Wilkie. He is 7ft. high, with
enormous tail and wonderfully muscular shoulders.
In the next enclosure is one of the Macropus Qigan-
teus. who will never equal tin's rufus. The Gigan
tens is a truer descendant of the fossil kangaroo,
modelled by Le Souef as about 15ft. high.
“Flewis” : I’ve been in the Federal Capi-
tal Territory (or, at least, the territory where the
alleged capital is to perhaps be) for three months,
and it has been blowing a 20-knot gale during that
time. I used to reckon that Wellington (M.L.) could
beat anything at blowing bar King O’Malley, but
Canberra beats them both. As for that lake the
U.S. expert figures on making, on which the youth
and beauty of the capital will go a-boating of a sum-
mer’s night, just listen to this little extract from an
official description of part of the Molonglo. “The
river bed here is fairly wide, of a sandy and gravelly
nature, but the stream is narrow and shallow, and
stock can cross almost anywhere.”
COMBA T UNDER PARLIAMENTARY RULES.
SMITHO (shaping): "Put ’em up, you scoundrel, an’ I’ll smash yer Pad.”
JONSEY (a confirmed Parliamentary galleryite, who thinks he sees an honorable way out
of a difficult situation): "Say, Smitho, couldn't—couldn't we pair in this division?”
“Boswell” records the prattle of the
policeman’s widow: —
“Ah, poor Brian was a policeman—he went 12
months ago, God rest his soul! I could tell you
queer things about some people in this district. It’s
the policeman that knows everything, and what the
policeman knows his wife knows —and a bit more,
maybe. Only for their wives half of them would
never get a stripe at all. You know Sergeant
O’Hehir. You don’t know him? Why, I saw him
this morning in the street with a tweed suit on and
a straw hat. And Mick Donohue? He had his half-
day off yesterday. Geo. Briggs is a senior now.
Well! Well! If you didn’t know Mick I thought
everybody' knew George. He gets his leave next
month. I was up at the barracks to-day, and Jim
Barlow’s going to take me to the circus to-night.
You don’t know Jim? Why, I thought everybody
knew him. Him, and Paddy Flannagan—what!
Never heard of Flannagan! Why, everybody talks
about him. Big Tom, as they call Maguire, was in
plain clothes this morning. He’s got a case on —-a
policeman’s wife knows these things by instinct.
Most women know nothing at all. Of course
Maguire hasn’t been in uniform as long as Phil
Smith and Tim Heggartv. They’re both due for
their two stripes. And it was Tim’s wife that put
him on to the case that got him the second one, as
I happen to know. What, you never heard of Heg-
gartv ! Why. Tim Heggarty’’
And, after half an hour of this, you realise that
half the world doesn’t know how big the men are
who arrest the other half of it for cow-stealing or
“no visible beans of support.”
* » » *
“Ask Tredennick,” said the confident man
with the Northern mine to sell—“ask Treden-
nick: he worked it once. He’ll give you the
strength of it.” So the city man asked Tredennick
for the strength of it, and this is the report he
got:—
You ask about the Buckley’s Chance mine. It was
a cow. I worked it on tribute before the Synagogue
took possession, and made a bare existence, without
trousers. One year we ran the little furnace a whole
fortnight. Very hard countrv. and very little ore,
but sometimes a small bunch of beautiful zinc or
iron. You can drive 10ft. or 100 ft. without seeing
anything. It’s a beautiful place for driving—you
don’t meet with any interruptions. They have had
a man keeping the bait sweet for a bite; and because
I don’t want to spoil sport, I have much pleasure in
recommending it to you, if you don’t mind being
the fish.
“Harborite”: Not necessary to visit
ety shows to see well-trained dogs For
ferry passengers to Circular Quay, Sydney Zl
familiar with a canine trained and" at work l T
occupation of collecting “dead marines” Thj he
is stationed in the bows of an old boat rowed bv ?
still older man, and its duty is to signal bv LV
yaps any empty bottle that heaves in sight Jr .
is duly collected by the skipper. Nothing but 1
attracts the look-out’s attention, and thev ol 68
missed. If anybody has an animal to beat him*™
the game it won’t be in regard to empties. The li!
dog that can go one better will have to find i n
bottles or kegs. nnd
“Celia Lloyd”: When “9-3-11” (B.
4/9/’l3) gets fresh about paspalum being a pest
and a curse on the North Coast (N.S.W.) dairy
farms, it’s reasonable to suspect he’s a Woolloomooloo
farmer. There is no other known feed in Australia
that will carry cattle and return butter-fat like this
weed. Give it a temperate climate with a good rain-
fall, such as they have in the vicinity mentioned, and
it will put £ 6 per year on the right side of the pass-
book for every acre. I have just concluded some
extensive wandering through the North Coast cows
and cockies, and, of the only two good things I
found on the trip, paspalum was one. Like any
other heavy grass, such as buffalo and couch, if con-
tinually eaten off it will mat at the roots, but where
you find the practical dairy farmer (not mere milkers
and turners of separators) who ploughs his paddocks
every three or even four years, you will find pas-
palum in the shape of the very best cow-feed, twelve
inches high, and good from the point nearest Heaven
to the extremity nearest the other place.
* * * *
“The Immature Male”: I have always
cherished a vague idea that when a Poet had closed
up his verse-factory for the day, and had wended hit
way homeward, and had groomed and littered down
his Pegasus, and partaken of a swig of Nectar —
that he invariably spent his leisure hours wandering
around loose amongst fields of Asphodel, or Amar-
anth, gazing sadly at the sunset. But after reading
an account of a recent coursing match, this seems
entirely erroneous. Poets appear to have given up
sadly mooning; for it looks as if they have taken to
working overtime, and have all gone in for inventing
sonorous-sounding dog-names. Herewith a list taken
from one recent coursing event: Vanrov;
Larille; Nanette; Happy Bride; La Valerie; Be-
loved ; Queen of the Forest; Fairy Poem; Lady
Haste; Lawn Bee; Flying Arrow; Le Roy; Rose
Queen; Tisiphone; Kilsheelan; Pomona; White
Pigeon; and Hidden Tears. Hidden Tears as a
hound-label is almost epic! Possibly these names
are all the work of one Sonneteer —some tame Poet-
aster, who is kept chained up on the premises of the
Coursing Club.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE GOOD BROTHER WHO IS ALSO AMUSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Bishop of Bathurst (Dr. Long) urged the
claims of Church work in the West. People were in
the habit of saying that Bathurst was a civilised
place, where people lived in harmony. But though
he had his letters sent to Bathurst, he was not often
there, for his diocese embraced 83,000 square miles.
Coming along a bush track the other day he had met
a team of shearers, and one of them had said, “Them
bush parsons are the best parsons I have ever struck,
and we would be glad, Bishop, if you would'send us
more of them.”
Rev. E. C. Kempe (the principal) said one of the
papers had remarked that the Bush Brotherhood was
monastic, but if some people were sometimes to pass
the home at Dubbo and hear them singing, “Have a
Banana,” and other comic ditties, they would not
think there was much monasticism about them.
—Sydney D.T.
A pair of gaiters soon are lost
Upon the Narrow Track ;
They travel at tremendous cost,
And seldom go Outback.
They twinkle down the well-kept street;
They speed across the plain—-
Not on two large and aching feet,
Biit in a railway train.
The Bishop by the city stands
Where soft-lapped Comfort smiles;
He has beneath his white, ringed hands
Some eighty thousand miles.
Within his great soul-paddock crawl
The teams of godless folk:
Lone swagmen tramp, and bushmen bawl,
And Life’s a wide-spaced joke.
His gay parishioners, of course,
Forget the Narrow Way,
Until a Brother on a horse
Drops in to sing and pray.
He is the traveller for the stuff
The Bishop vends in town,
And travel-wise he knows enough
To make his goods go down.
He shows his mind is broad with lays
By some good men decried ;
He does not harp on Herod’s ways,
But does a Gaby Glide.
He Turkey Trots Theology,
And Tangoes for the poor
Bush folk, who very little see
And much have to endure.
What wonder then that teamsters beg
The Bishop by the way
To send him round to shake a leg
And sing another day?
N.S.W.
THE VERGER.


Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been the
and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
akin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
m
s
A v
r
SODA FOUNTAIN
SUPPLIES
AT
NELSONS
Bell-shaped, 12oz. capacity —
5/9 dozen
Barrel-shaped, 14oz. capacity—
7/- dozen
Straight Sodas, from .. 8/9 dozen
Glass Jars for Straws ( with
cover) 4/9 each
Crushed Fruit Bowls (with ladle),
from 22/6 each
Ice Cream Spoons .... 6/6 dozen
Long-handle Soda Spoons—
-10/6 dozen
Tumbler Holders, from 4/6 each
Ice Cream Servers 8/6 each
Glass Barrels for Syrups, with
E.P. Taps—
Size, i gallon .... 21/- each
Size, 1 gallon .... 27/6 each
Fancy Glass Barrels, 1 gallon—
-35/6 each
Co 2 Gas in Tubes, contains 141 b.,
281 b., 561 b., at 4J4d. per lb.
Ice Cream Freezers, Milk
Shakers, Straws, Tumblers, Ice
Cream Spoons, Ice Cream Soda
Spoons, Ice Cream Dishes, Ice
Cream Servers, Syrup Bottles
If you own a Soda Fountain, an
Hotel or a Refreshment Room, you
should get our catalogue of supplies
immediately.
We have the biggest stocks and the
greatest turnover, and our prices are
undeniably the lowest in Australia.
Our goods are the QUALITY sort
—the only sort we can recommend
—and the only sort of goods we
EVER sell.
Talk with us by letter!
NOTE. —The above illustration is
a Nelson Iceless Interior —the best
in the world! All the “men who
know” are scrapping the old and
cheap kinds, and installing
“NELSON’S.”
So should you.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. Ltd.
167 QEORQE STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY
SIEMENS
D.C. Cinematograph-Generators.
F.C.
e
A non-stop, non-fluctuating current makes for high efficiency.
That’s what the man in the lantern house looks for. And with a
“Siemens” D.C. Cinematograph Generator he gets it. This
Generator has been specially designed for picture=show work; has
ring=lubricated bearings and unusually large cooling surfaces and
ventilation openings. It operates at low expense, requires the
minimum of attention, is strong and compact and practically silent.
SIZES IN STOCK:
8.5,10.3 and 12.5 kilowatts at 110 v.
A request on a post=card will bring you further information con-
cerning this F.C. type of generator. Write at your first opportunity.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.,
42 Bridge Street, Sydney. 29 William Street, Melbourne.
Telegraphic Address x “SIEMENS,” Sydney or Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS t i
A. T. BURT, LTD., Wellington, Auckland, Dunedin.


Sporting Cartridges.
SPECIAL FEATURES;
General Evenness of Pattern, Velocity
and Pressure.
Freedom from Blowback.
Less Recoil than that given by any other
Fully-loaded Standard Ammunition.
mar*
KYNOCYA MADE
"BON AX"
XYtiOCrt LOADED
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-560-6 COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
H°w often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effeetwelv in a few
where.* 6d ' and 3s ' Obtainable every-
AUSTRALIANS !!
INSURE
IN
THE 1.0. A.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
CARL ZOELLER
246 Queen St.
Brisbane, Q.
Established 1890.
EVERY BUSHMAN
Should have a copy of
this Book—lT’S FREE
It tells all about Emas-
culating-Oolt.s. Branding
and Earmarking- Cattle,
Dehorning Calves. Spay-
ing Cows. about Prevent-
ing Pleuro, Mammitis,
and Blackleg, about Im-
pregnating Barren
Mares and Cows.
Teaches you Horse
Dentistry and other
useful knowledge.
This Valuable Book is
Posted FREE. Writ-
for your Copy NOW.
Free
“(xil Gunnia” : The finest sport in the
North is a 'gator hunt as organised by Binghi. I
was fortunate to witness one the other day while
travelling the Gulf rivers, where this “game" is
very plentiful. In fact, some of the small and little-
known tidal creeks and rivers are alive with them
at the point where the fresh water commingles with
the salt. It was on the Staaten, north from Nor-
manton, we had our bit of excitement. Six of the
Maitakendi tribe’s old bucks directed affairs, and in
their wake were some 20 followers—young bucks,
gins and kids. The gins and kids were armed with
waddies and stones, the others with spears. The
plan of campaign is such cases is as follows. First
of all, the water is poisoned with jinbul wood. This
quickly turns up the small aquatic fry, and the
alligators find it so little to their liking that they
migrate. They have to travel overland, as they are
headed if they try to escape up or down stream. This
is Binghi’s chance. When a number have been turned
inland the blacks surround them. The bucks with
their spears prod and tickle the vulnerable undersides
of the great lizards, while the camp followers blind
them with sand when they try to escape. Verv few
of the ’gators do escape. After half an hour of this
warfare the lizards are exhausted ; but while it lasts
it is very thrilling, for with Binghi's yells are min-
gled the yapping and snarling of the ’gators. Then
belts are unloosened and lips smack in anticipation.
Very little of the meat is eaten —only the sirloin
and one or two of the choicest parts. The great
delicacy is the “fry or the embryo egg pouches of
the female ’gator. There is keen rivalry for this
titbit. At the hunt on the Staaten River 10 ’gators
were bagged; and after the titbits were taken the
carcases were skinned and the skins got ready for
drying. Later on, Binghi will swap them at the
stations for supplies of ’bacca and sugar.
* * * *
"Leo Lear” : Reckoned by self and mate
that there are more kinds of bells in the Australian
bush and plains than in any other country on earth.
There are counties* cow-bells, horse-bells” bull-bells,
camel-bells, sheep-bells, goat-bells, mule-bells, and
bird-bells. In newly-settled country, before fences
are run up, bells are a blessing to the stock hunter.
But they can be overdone. With horses, one bell on
a small mob is all that is necessary; the others
usually stick to the bell-horse. There” is an art in
knowing what beast to bell. Some can walk miles
and graze half the week without giving their alarm
more than an occasional gentle ring. Again, there
is a peculiarity about the sound of some bells in the
bush ; there are those that are almost unbearable
when close at hand, but get a mile or so off, and
the clear ringing clangs out as plainly as the Last
Gong. There is a heap in the selection of bells. An
old cross-cut saw, put together-by a good-tradesman—
but it needs a good one—and fitted-with • a suitable
knocker, makes one of the best stock bells I know
of. And for a camp bell, to rouse out
sleepers in the morning, there is nothing
more resounding or melodious than three dif-
ferent lengths of railroad iron hung on wire, and
hit, banged or clouted with a cold chisel. Stock
bells have a great attraction for emu. The long-
nccked, inquisitive birds that happen to be within
sound of a bell, especially if they are not accustomed
A BILLYGOAT
FLAT MORSEL.
FORMER IDNTITY
(after years of ab-
sence): "Well,
that's the first flock
of goats I’ve seen since I was a kid.”
to hearing it, will rally round the ringer like a
scattered congregation on a dry Sunday. And if
the horses on which the bells may be, are themselves
unaccustomed to emu, there is a fine stampede, mak-
ing the birds more inquisitive than ever. Result,
another horse bolt, followed by another emu stalk,
ad infinitum Hunting over miles of country for
wandering stock with bells on is wearv work. * They
may be camped close at hand, and if the flies happen
to be off duty, no ring comes from the bell till the
searcher is out of earshot. Besides, a man who is
out all day, stopping frequently to listen for the
sound of his own bell (for he knows it apart from
dozens of others), at last gets bells on the brain,
and hears them from every creek and spur. Then
he bolts for home, and finds the missing animals
feeding alongside of the yard, minus the bell which
has been lost.
A VALUATION.
BILL (in background): “Shine tom Ernie Peter's 'as got now , ain’t she?"
BILLJIM : “Her! She can't milk!"
CHORUS: “ Cripes! Ain't 'e a fool."
Billy W inkle : Re '“Norbell’s” statement
(B. 9/10/ 13) that “the people in the country don’t
wash themselves whether they have baths or not.”
I ha\e visited most of the towns in Western Queens-
land, as far out as Longreach, and the
people of these towns seemed to be par-
ticularly fond of bathing, not in a tub
or bathroom such as “Norbell” describes,
but in natural river baths or conserved
bore water. At Blackall, Barcaldine and
Aramac people with towels may be seen
making for the baths at any time of day
or night. Both Barcaldine and Aramac
sport a caretaker for their artesian water
baths, and he doesn’t look as if he needed
exercise either. Between these towns a
friendly rivalry exists as to which has
the better bath. The only man in Bar-
caldine who doesn’t believe in artesian
water bathing is the local chemist; pro-
bably the population is too healthy to
please him. There are other towns,
of course, that have not these natural
advantages, but it is a very poor town
indeed that does not boast a “swimming
hole.’’ I venture to say that more chil-
dren learn to swim in the country towns
than in the city. Wagga, Albury, Hay,
Narandera and all river towns have their
•swimming clubs, and in other towns men-
tioned by “Norbell,” such as Wellington,
Young- and Parkes,. thank the Lord for good rains
there is ample water and plenty of facilities for
bathing. _ Appears from “Norbell’s” par. that he puts
up at 15-bob-a-week hasheries and expects 10s. a
day comforts.
“D.L.H.”: “R.V.” (B. 16/30/’l3) is no
sheep-man. He says of the station-hand: “Then over
a slush lamp or spluttering candle he argues,
wrangles and sometimes fights over sheep.” I’ve
never known it so. The only time I’ve heard sheep
mentioned by a station-hand has been when the talk
has turned to the marvellous way in which his dog
has circumvented an obstreperous mob. The most
common subject of conversation in any bush camp,
whether it’s sheep, cattle, scrub cutters’, fencing
or any other (I except a dairy farm—l never lived
on one), is horse: race horse, stock horse, the horse
I once had, the horse of the man I used to know,
the exceptionally intelligent pack horse (this sub-
ject is inexhaustible), the take-down horse, the wool-
team horse and, of course, the bucking horse. The
next most popular subject is woman, after which
come dogs and snakes in that order. It is onlf in
the “big house” that sheep monopolise the conver-
sation. The owner talks sheep all the time, the
manager most of the time, and the overseer when
its necessary to offer polite agreement with what
his overtords say. I know; I’ve been an overseer.
, . n ’ ust have S ot his experience as a guest of
the big house.”
Gagani-Namo : The Ivikenies (maidens)
are three stone columns which stand by themselves
in the Pacific some 20 miles west of Port Moresby.
Local tradition has it that away back in the haze of
time a coastal chief thereabouts, in order to placate
a & re at warrior inland, decided on presenting him
with his youngest daughter. When he acquainted
her wnh his purpose, she, aghast at being separ-
ated from her young lover, and terrified with the
prospect of going among a tribe who had been raid-
ing and eating her people for as long as could be
remembered, fled and hid in the scrub. Then the
two remaining daughters were told that they were to
go and square up with the mountain chief; but they
too, took fright, and bolted. Angered out of all’
a flection, the father summoned his pourri-pourri men
(magicians) to discover and punish the disobedient
girls. The sorcerers went away to make their secret
magic while all the villagers assembled to await
developments. Some hours went by, then suddenlv
the earth quaked, tremendous thunders deafened the
multitude; and in a blinding flash of lightning the
, Kl . kenle ® were vomited out of a chasm and
hurtled far out into the sea, where they’ll stand till
the end of time for a concrete warning to the
daughters of that part of Papua.
“Sandfly”: The English fox is quickly
spreading over Australia. Two of these pests were
captured quite recently at Normanby, 60 miles from
owen (N.Q.). A blackboy engaged by a scalper
camp home to his boss’s camp brimful of the infor-
mation of the animal he had shot. Said he: “No
nahve dog, no pussy cat, no bear; what name?”
the hide is now on exhibition at Bowen.
X.or M. : The oldest tombstone in (he
disused cemetery of St. David's, Hobart, dates back
to 1802, the year before old Parson Knopwood, who
arrived with Collins, marked out a space for cada-
vers beyond the cluster of huts and tents by the
creek. It must be one of the earlier
in the Commonwealth; nevertheless, the min<!"p tS
lettering is still clearly legible:— painstaking
George Kearly was
Born July the 9, 1802
and died the 13th. ’
Joseph Kearly was
born May the 30, 1805
and died the 5 of August’.
Come Lord make ready our bride
Our Saviour no longer delav.
T , . C .°. lne our God and our Guide—
Ihe last line is lost in the earth. Yourw t
manians who happened to get born in the rll
mg days frequently made a speedy exit as m
an oddly-worded epitaph testifies; and ’no doubt
the embryo newspapers said it showed that the
climate was impossible for white children in V
instances the tombstone artist carved a folded ™
bud on the stone and left it at that, but occasion'
ally the symbolism soared into language, with dP
astro us results—as in the case of Mary Elizabeth
Cowburn, aged seven;— 111
.... A rose, a budding rose
Blasted before its bloom
Or the other small child, buried in an up-country
Tasmanian cemetery, who was “the blasted hope of
his father.’ One of the monuments now falling to
pieces in the old St. David’s enclosure marks the
grave 0 f Captain and Mrs. Kelly and their numerous
children. A sad little procession of lives these last
that flickered by like the shadow kings in “Macbeth’*-
i»r et ’ , dled 1817 - a ? ed two days; Eliza, died
18-3, aged one month; George, died 1828, aged five
months: Elizabeth Jane, died 1828. aged 14 years
John, died 1831, aged one day.’’ After these came
James Brum, aged 21 years, killed by a blow from
a whale, 1841; and Thomas, aged 16, drowned bv
the upsetting 1 of a boat in the Derwent, 1842. Cap
tain James Kelly holds a memorable place in early
Tasmanian history. A big, autocratic, genial man
he once won a bet that his breeks would hold five
bushels of wheat. His doings and inches filled the
public eye, and the little shipping town buzzed with
interest when he came back from one of his voyages
of discovery round the Tasmanian coast or amoiw
the islands of Bass Strait. His most famous voyage
was that of 1815, when he went round the stormy
West Coast in a whaleboat, discovering Port Davey
and endeavoring, without success, to enter the Pie-
man River. The chartings and soundings which he
then made are still in use. Kelly was a N.S.W.
man by birth, and must have been one of the earliest
native-born Australians. His epitaph is inscribed-
Memory of James Kelly, who departed
this life on the 20th of April, 1859, in the 66 year
of his age. He was born in the town of Parra-
matta, New South Wales, on the 21st day of De-
cember, 1791, and has resided the principal part of
his life Jn Van Diemen’s Land. Now called Tasmania.
Australians will have kind remembrances
of Griffin, the imported American town-planner, for
one thing, anyway—he didn’t hand out the usual
foreigner’s silly gibe at one of the Oldest Inhabitants.
“The gum tree,” enthused Griffin, “instead of being
one big continual monotony, has strongly appealed to
me. It is a poet’s tree. It is a most wonderful
tree a decorator’s tree. Its foliage is beautiful, and
its bark and twigs have a beauty of their own.”
Hooray!
“Wilder”: Bill Mooney’s small family
wasn’t capable of manipulating his dairy herd, so he
hired a married couple. In case of trouble he drew
up this contract:—
AGREMENT BETWEN YOUSE AN’ US.
Youse as got ter milk ther cows an cut ther wood
an grub ther stumps an feed ther podies an pigs an do
ther suckeren an youse as ter do ther eookin for us
an youse but we as ter give youse arf ther kreem
chek and ther podies wot dies there skins an if youse
wants ter leve youse as ter give us a weeks'notis
hut youse can yuse arf ther ens egs same as us.
ENFORCED ABSENCE.
BILL THE SOAK: “ Ain't seen yer ’bout lately
Where ’d yer get to?”
GREASY GEORGE : “Confined to me room."
B.T.S.: “ Doctor?"
G.G.: “No. Magistrate."
“Ajax”: The Sydney, Telegraph prints
the information, with big headlines, that “COWS
EAT DEAD RABBITS,” which, after all, doesn't
startle me so much as, had the case been reversed
ancl we were told that “DEAD RABBITS EAT
(OW S. But the cowardly intent of the paragraph
lies in the mean effort to rob some of our poets of
at least a portion of their stock-in-trade— i.e., in the
insinuation that “the sweet breath of kine” is not
all that it has been cracked up to be.
CONTINUOUS RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Softly incessant, on the iron roof
It drums with silver fingers,-while the sound
Of running water murmurs all around—
Grey is the warp of life and grey the woof 1
Grey is the little room wherein we dwell
Shut from the sun, where through the flickering'
pall ' b
Of keen, cold lances comes the river’s call,
A hoarse, sad voice that ever seems to swell.
Not blackest midnight harbors such a host
Of eerie fancies as these sombre dgvs
When all the world lies chilled with dread amaze,
caught m the clammy vesture of a ghost.
The minor melody of gentle rain
Echoes beneath the dark and dripping trees—
Oh for a quick, a cloud dispelling breeze,
And the clear sunlight on the hills again ! ’
victoria.
SYD. C.


)
T?A
Vi
Jv-L'.
800
v On
//
7/////$!
JH>-(
A/
BRA
POOT PoUSI I
V>
u&
V 3
1
&
rffpf
IS
Croß
,-V;
iw
&&•/*
&0J
>-is ■
is
* v
// /
✓ /■/
/>■
v'
6s
/vVS
•*-.
taaO
§ii
f(3i» , * a Ni
Root Hus*
I \\;gSeuMa sasSiSS&iim- i
t cl
s|®J|g&9*yCLf ' - ' V f\'>' [fit !
-n^Ka—
/ / / T’- ?’ J* ?
ipss
S^?s§^
mmmi
p PiSl§?p
MS*
'23&; **\SyiwSg l itf>
rrfrs A v-ls:
llt?3& I i {narrjs;
rrp
sti
3e~,,,
' HW7
SgSftSi
ca
11 1 11
ifis
~y**^^«Srr < hiii.fay <#
<v ■'■ ...
,/7 pH.
ss®
•■■"
Ss*
numwki** 4
L'-,r •’ "'.<l** ..'
*J^l2
6/
■A 7
-?
w ’’■l
pj^
SSsS
> ?», v> i-*jr , v»* -r^
f)
&SS
s “Si
SM
r,’
-s'
(4?
®a. KJ5£SesS"
>V
ii’
■•''‘Vj-' j
? M
s
v , l
'*£%Jfs-
--e)
$
&
J
r
■V, ; .
1 )}
!
s •
v*A ]
f/
1
{#
%•
-
&
iJt
\
s.
aP?
IN
igs*
((
Oobrst) Boot Polish
Chunder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Flies at top speed
In the blue.
Upturned faces
"Far, far down,
Watch him skimming
O’er the town.
Suddenly from
Out a cloud
Tins flash downward
To the crowd.
And they hear a
Clear voice call,
“Cobra! Cobra
Over all I ”


Sanatogen Brings New
Health and Nerve Force.
** I have used Sanatogen with extra-
ordinary benefit. It is to my mind a true
food tonic, feeding the nerves, increasing
the energy, and giving fresh vigour to the
overworked body and mind.”
These wort’s by Sir Gilbert Parker, M.P.,
the well-known author, have a helpful
meaning for you —if you need real help in
one of those crises of life when your health
is giving you anxiety.
They echo a sentiment of gratitude which
is expressed in many different ways in
thousands upon thousands of letters from
men and women who owe to Sanatogen new
strength and vitality.
The Rt. Hon. Sir John Gorst, member of His
Majesty’s Privy Council, writes: “ Sir John
Gorst wishes to say he has long been acquainted
with the great merits of Sanatogen —has taken
it with excellent results, and when necessary
will certainly take it again. It was also used
by a daughter of his with great benefit.”
To you who are run down, nervous or
weak —to you who are less than yourself —
Sanatogen will bring new health. To you
whose nerves have gone wrong, and whose
appetite or sleep or capacity for work are
impaired, Sanatogen comes as a rescuing
sustainer, a revitalising force, a feeder of
nerves and tissues.
Write to-day for a Free Booklet, entitled
“ The Art of Living,” to Messrs. A. Wulfing
& Co., 17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Kindly mention this paper when writing.
All Chemists sell Sanatogen, price 2s. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. per tin.
d
mi
<>
V
*■*
\
The Vanished Infant.
A Victorian detective told recently of a
nurse of his acquaintance in whose house
seven babies had been born. They had all,
so she said, been “adopted,” but not one of
them could be traced. She asserted that she
knew where they were, but firmly refused
to supply details on the subject. And that
was only one nurse among many. Mean-
while frequency of the deceased baby in
the Yarra and elsewhere shows that the
adoption isn’t always as genuine as it might
be. To cope with this obvious infamy Chief
Secretary Murray proposes a Bill providing
(1) fine or imprisonment for any person
concerned in the adoption of a baby except
through the Neglected Children’s Depart-
ment, and (2) the licensing and' inspection
of all lying-in homes and hospitals. There
are points of merit about this proposal, but
it doesn’t nearly begin to meet such cases as
the above. For example, there is the un-
happy girl who comes to the city from the
country, under an assumed name, gives birth
to a child, and in desperation makes away
with it before returning home. How is she
to be saved from crime and her offspring
from destruction? Society being constituted
as it is, there is only one possible remedy
for her case—a State Foundling Home,
where all infants shall be received incognito.
With such an institution in existence
“fallen” women could get a chance to arise
once more unhampered by what the chronic
chapel-goer terms a “child of shame,” and
the Commonwealth would score, inasmuch as
the infant would be alive, and a prospective
citizen and defender.
■ ♦
A matter on which the visiting British
Parliamentarians were very strong was Aus-
tralia’s urgent need for more population.
The requirement, from Australia’s point of
view, shrieks in the public eye and looms
up like a gibbering ghost beside the public
ear, for among all the countries which are
worth taking this one has the fewest de-
fenders to the square mile. But when a
British person takes up that parable one is
tempted to wonder what unselfish individual
left the door open so that Saul blew in
among the prophets, or to ask whether Saul
came down the chimney, or was previously
concealed on the premises. Last year
(1912) John Bull imported 109.000,000
cwt. of wheat to feed himself, and his wife
Jane Cow, and his young son ’Enery Calf.
Also he imported over 10,000,000 cwt. of
flour. He wants more imported wheat every
year. In 1899 he struggled through with
66,500,000 cwt., so the increase is large and
sudden. And he depends on the empty
countries for his supplies. Many countries
refuse to remain empty, consequently places
that used to supply him are now competing
with him for the wheat the empty countries
have to spare. Inside 13 years, Germany,
Chile, Roumania and Turkey have dropped
out of the list of States which have a lot of
superfluous food to sell cheaply to Pa Bull.
The United States has dropped its supply
one-half in 13 years, and it doesn’t expect
to be a country with a surplus much longer.
The Russian supply is vanishing. And as
Australia and Canada and Argentina fill up
they will also drift out of the exporting list,
and will eat their own corn and beef, and
tell Bull to take to a fish diet. The advice
which SAUL-among-the-prophets gave to Aus-
tralia, about filling up its empty spaces, was
mighty good advice for Australia. But in
one sense it was very bad advice for Bull-
* mong-the-prophets.
“Aiiaswer”- —whose pen-name shrouds the
identity of an old and trusted Bulletin
contributor —puts some queries in connection
with elective Ministries :
As I understand, the idea is that Parliament should
elect its own Ministers. But does it not elect its
Speaker now? Is the man elected to the Speakership
the best man available? Or isn’t the position one
of the spoils to the victors? And would an immacu-
late Minister of Anything be appointed to office from
the Opposition? And if not, what’s the use?
The Speaker hasn’t always been the best
man available, but then he is to a certain
extent a product of the party system. The
Party gets together. The blessed Party
puts up its nominee for the Speakership.
And the grand old Party often votes pretty
solidly for its nominee. Hence such
Speakers as Young in N.S.W., Cowley in
Queensland, Reibey in Tasmania (he meant
well, but he wasn’t a shining light or a city
set upon a hill), Bent, Gillies and Frank
Madden (three lamentables) in Victoria,
and Johnson in Australian politics. But
the Speaker’s billet comes nearer to being
elective than any other first-class job in
politics, and perhaps for that reason this
country has had many very high-class men
in the chair—in fact, the high-class men
probably predominated. Bent, Gillies,
Frank Madden and Cowley went in on a
purely Government vote. So long as there
are parties, and the party in power is strong
enough to provide a Speaker and Chairman
of Committees, and there are faithful hacks
who must be provided for, an occasional in-
ferior Speaker is, of course, inevitable.
According to a recent cable: —
Experts maintain, that it is extremely doubtful
whether the army biplanes ordered by the Federal
Government will fly in Australia, as their planes are
not sufficiently large to lift them in the rarefied air
of this country. The biplanes referred to are of the
BE2 type, and similar to those in the British army.
Barometric pressure indicates that the air,
in most parts of Australia, is denser than it
is in Europe, at the same height. Here are
two days’ readings at Sydney Observatory—
J2/10/’I3: 9 a.m., 30.0S0; 9 p.m., 30.107;
13/10/’l3, 9 a.m., 30.151;- 9 p.m., 30.120.
That shows a pretty constant air-pressure on
the coast of Australia of over 30-inches of
mercury, as compared with an ordinary pres-
sure on the coasts of Europe of something
under 30 inches. W. E. Hart, the New South
Wales aviator, flew persistently in the neigh-
borhood of Richmond and Windsor with
never the vestige of a mishap. The accident
which put him out of the flying game for
good had nothing to do with the state of the
atmosphere: it was a matter of using a
monoplane when he was accustomed only to
a biplane. Incidentally, he flew .in the more
rarefied air of the Western plains and came
to no harm. When it is remembered that
aeroplane flights have been made in Europe
over the Alps, at such heights as 16,000
and 17,000 feet—altitudes where, such was
the thinness of the air, the flying men could
hardly breathe —the allegation against the
air of Australia begins to look pretty thin.
As a matter of fact, the odds are that the
air-pressure is greater everywhere in the
Southern than the Northern Hemisphere ; a
result, so some of the French physiographers
think, of the south-polar ice-cap being much
thicker and more extensive than the north-
polar cap.
“Harbor Watch” from an English port: —
The newspapers here have been hip-hooraying
over the performance of Captain Charles Charleton,
of the Liverpool ship Harold. The skipper, it seems,
navigated his ship of 1299 tons, wheat laden, 15,000
miles, from Australia to Queenstown, without the
aid of a single officer. The trip took 108 days and
nights, and for most of the 108 nights the Old Man
slept in a cabin chair on the poop, and for weeks
at a time didn’t have his clothes off. According to
the published yarn, no officers could be picked up at
Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney, so Captain Charles
Charleton put to sea on his lonesome —except, of
course, for a crew of the usual mixed foreigners.
Now, there’s something I want to know. Do the
Australian regulations allow a 1299-ton ship to put
to sea with only one certificated officer in charge?
If so, why sof And if not, why did they allow this
skipper to skip out? He couldn’t have waited for
a dark night, because we’re told the ship wandered
round howling for an officer to come and sign on ;
and when it couldn’t get one it was allowed to de-
part. If the authorities can’t see the rottenness of
permitting such a thing they ought to consult an
oculist. And if the regulations and the authorities
don’t permit such goings on, and the captain did it
in spite of them, they ought still to be taken to a
public place and severely spoken to with a rope’s
end. If Captain Charleton had accidentally fallen
over the coalscuttle and broken his neck, or been
run over by a taxi-cab, or lost the number of his
mess by any other common sea accident, the ship
would have gone on drifting round until the grub
ran out and the crew ate one another, or they would
have sailed round in a circle till they got giddy.
There are few men more helpless to fetch a port
than a seaman who knows nothing of navigation,
and even if the captain had not died right out, but
had gone off his head or his feet, any old thing
might have happened to the ship and crew, and any
other ship and crew that came in the way. So,
when the cheers for the captain’s feat have died
down, I beg to propose that those responsible for
the regulation of ocean shipping in Australia he in-
vited to explain things. But then perhaps the yarn
may turn out to be a lie.
“Briner” : Mention of Grice, Sumner and
Co. (B. 23/10/’l3) recalls that that firm
owned the first steamer to regularly do the
round Sydney-Maoriland-Melbourne trip.
The vessel was the little Hero, which in its
earlier and sprucer days had been stipen-
diary yacht to the King of Sweden. After-
wards came the Rangitoto, Prince Alfred,
Tararua and Claude Hamilton, owned by
the Panama and Maoriland Co. Next the
Otago and Albion, the latter afterwards
named the Centennial, in revenge for which
Britannia, then ruling the waves, sunk her
to the bottom of Taylor’s Bay, in Sydney
Harbor. In 1876 came the Arawatta and
Ringarooma. The Union Co. was formed in
1875, and in 1879 put on the Rotoma-
hana, a large, swift greyhound or Skye ter-
rier of 1777 tons, and after the Rotomahana
the Wakatipu, Hauroto, Tarawera, Mana-
pouri. Wairarapa, Waihora, Te Anau, Mara-
roa and Waikare. In 1891 the Union ab-
sorbed the Tasmanian Co., adding the
Talune, Oonah, Pateena and Corinna. And
so it has gone on and on, till, nowadays
have the triple-screw oil-burner Niagara '
13,500 tons. 6 ’ oi
“Masarcus”: “Norseman,” as an advocatft
of liquor-regulation, is disgusted ( R
16/10/’l3) with the no-pub scheme operating
in Mildura (Vic.). The quantity of beer
poured down the neck of the fruit-growini?
community at the clubs is, he savs
ing. Still, little though the club ’ system
may lessen the drink habit, it is immeasur
ably superior to the Private Enterprise wav
For one thing, the irrigator gets his li qiu ,;
good. The clubs are not cursed with a fran-
tic desire to get rich quick on the profits
from doctored tack. The arrangement at
Mildura’s sister-settlement of Remnark
hundred miles down the river, is cer-
tainly better, because more public-
spirited. Renmark’s solitary pub i s
run by a committee elected by the
whole settlement, and all its spare
profits go in road-making and other public
improvements. Even the Wowseristic sec-
tion of the little town, though it is agitating
fiercely for the reduction of the hours
grog-selling, never nowadays demands the
shutting of the doors altogether.
“Dogs of War”: There are various sorts
of dogs; but I wouldn’t care to “fancy” a
dog that was just a blind cataract of hair.
I saw the portrait of one of these outrages
in a Sydney paper recently. It was a prize-
winner in the outrage class, and it looked
like a front view of Niagara in hair-flood.
I don’t see what use a dog of that variety
is. The only way it could be self-supporting
would be to hire itself out as a dishcloth or
a doormat. I have seen these things on the
show-bench. They are generally attended by
a pathetic, unhealthy-looking woman whose
life-job it is to linger round with a comb and
brush and valet the accursed thing. The
animal inside the torrent of hair always
looks miserable, and, I am sure, would be
better dead. Yet an offer to kill it free of
charge would probably be received with
screams by its wretched slave. I suppose
it is the function of the unnecessary person
to look after the superfluous animal, and the
removal of the animal is liable to make the
person feel lonely. That’s the only way I
can account for it.
“Rule. Nisi” writes :
Another tangled case rising out of the consolida-
tion of the Statutes occupied the time of a N.S.IV.
Court last week. The Children’s Protection Acts
were consolidated in 1902, and the clause in the
1892 Act providing penalties for any person neglect-
ing a child was dumped into the division headed
“adopted” children. A father, who had been found
guilty of neglecting to support his child, seized upon
this point to appeal. He argued that “person” didn't
include “parent,” and, as he hadn’t “adopted” the
little girl admittedly neglected, he wasn’t properly
convicted. The Judge confessed that looking at the
consolidated Act, there was considerable force in this
argument, but held that in cases of doubt Judges
were entitled to ignore the consolidated Act, and
refer back to the original and repealed Statute. He
thereupon upheld the conviction. This decision is
fortunate as regards the merits of a case, but whether
it would stand the brunt of a further appeal is
dubious. An Act repealed is presumably an Act
repealed ; and if it isn’t what is the good of repealing
it? Further, what is the good of consolidating a
drove of old Acts in order to save the trouble of
referring to them, if the drove is going as strong as
ever in spite of the consolidation ?


Mark the differences
between the
Square Tread
and an ordinary cover
A tyre which is most artistically sculptured—
a thing of ribs and lumps, hollows and humps—
is one of the fads nowadays. Such grooves
reduce the thickness of the tread and make
it proportion a l ely weaker.
• •
2
Tke Michelin Square
Tread, as you see, is a plain
cover. Therefore, it is just so
much the thicker and stronger.
Moreover, the common practice is to
make casing and tread separately. These
are then stuck together.
But the Michelin Square Tread is
all one piece ; therefore, the cover is a
homogeneous whole; every part is
absolutely regular.
N.B. — Remember, it is essential not only to
know the good tyre, but also to know how to
preserve it when it is on your car. The secret is
to keep it always well inflated, and frequently
verify the pressure with a Michelin Pressure Tester.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories
can be obtained from all the Leading Garages.
A.N.Z. 20
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d.
8.(823
N.134S
THE VERY LATEST!
The Last Word in Oil Tractors
is undoubtedly
“MARSHALL.”
OUR Principals (Messrs. Marshall Sons & Co., Ltd.)
have spent a huge sum of money to perfect and place
on the market
The Only Successful and Reliable Oil Tractor.
Many so-called Oil Tractors recently sold in this State are
now ‘ ‘ OUT OK COMMISSION ’ ’ Or FILLING UP SOME GAP IN
THE farm FENCE, but the “ MARSHALL ” is demon-
strating all over the World its claim to the title of
"The World’s Champion Oil Tractor.”
MADE IN TWO SIZES—
Class E equals 16 ordinary 'farm-horse
power, 30 to 35 B.H.P.
Class F equals 32 ordinary farm-horse
power, 60 to 70 B.H.P.
Fitted with Two-speeds, Winding Drum, Awning, Plowing
Draw Bar, in addition to Hauling Bar.
USES ORDINARY KEROSENE AS FUEL.
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
CASH OR LIBERAL TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’Depot, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


Solid Silver Mounted Mother-o’-
Pearl TRINKET HOLDER, Emu,
Kangaroo or Swan Design, 7/6.
Gent.’s Plain Solid Silver TOBACCO
BOX, gilt lined, self-acting spring
lid, 30/-.
PRESERVE DISH, silver-plated
“Gondola” design, clear crystal dish,
richly burnished frame, 12/6.
Sterling Silver 5-Piece MANICURE
SET, richly embossed and burnished,
15/6.
AUNDERS’
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLED
Handsome Xmas Gifts
Here are just a few suggestions from our many thousands, each idea is hand-
some, practical and of good value. W e post all designs free.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure
Silver-plated, richly en-
graved and embossed,
4/6.
St
$
HEAD SALTS, Pure
Silver Top, richly
engraved hobnail cut
glass bottle, 7/6.
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver Plated,
richly hand embossed and burnished,
silk-lined, 30/-.
OUR XMAS GIFT BOOK
is well worth having. It is full of Gift
Ideas in Jewellery, Silverware, Leatherware,
etc. Write for a copy —it is free.
Solid Silver Handsomely Embossed TOILET SET,
comprising Hair and Cloth Brush, Comb and
Round Mirror, £4/4/-.
PERN POT, Pure Silver-
plated, richly embossed,
12/6.
CANDLESTICK, Pure Silver-
plated “Petunia” Design,
pierced base, 11/6.
English Oak CRIB-
BAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER, pure
Silver-plated Mounts,
15/6.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-
plated, richly engraved satin
finish, gilt lined, 12/6.
d»l>
W 1
Interwoven
richly burn-
ished, plain or engraved
frames, £3, £4/10, £6/10
up to £10; Silver-plated,
20/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
Gent.’s Plain Concave Solid Silver
Military HAIlt BRUSH, finest
quality bristles, 15/6, 20/-,
25/-
Sterling Silver-Mounted SAFETY MATCH
HOLDER, plain, 8/6: engraved 10/6.
Two-Branch Specimen TUBE, handsome
“Daffodil” Design, pure Silver-plated, satin
finish, gilt lined, 12/6.
807-817 George Street, Sydney.
TOBACCO QUALITIES
IT is an admitted fact that present tobacco
crops are eminently unsatisfactory, and
manufacturers who are compelled to
purchase at the present time cannot obtain
so good a tobacco as hitherto. It is owing
to this deterioration that many cigarettes
are degenerating in quality.
THE manufacturers of “Winfred
Cigarettes are in a unique position.
They hold an enormous stock of the
finest selected tobacco purchased during the
past three or four years, so that they are able
to maintain, for some years to come, the
present high-class quality of their cigarettes
without increasing the price.
10 for 6d.
CIGARETTES
To be obtained throughout Australasia.
10 for 6d.
Sole Manufacturers : ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., London.


BE GOOD TO HIM THIS XMAS
GIVE HIM A SPARKLET SYPHON
L
y
icrix
V
%
:j«, ! its
“ini j
7 -j -i
7 11
17171
7innn
n7“D
*22
S
yv
i't
if^-
SB
mm
K*~: hi
IF you come to think of it, few Christmas presents
could be more welcome in our climate than a
Sparklet Syphon—at anything like the price. It is
so beautifully made and finished that it looks worth
ever so much more than the few shillings you pay
for it. And to the man who has one, it certainly
IS worth more.
It saves him money. It enables him to make a quart of delicious soda water for 2|d. —
all fresh and ready instantly, without the mess and trouble of powders and the risk of
awkward bottles. So when you give him a Sparklet Syphon, whether he lives in the
city or away in the burning back-blocks, you give him the means of making—at any
time—in any place—from any water supply—
COOL, REFRESHING DRINKS
ALL THROUGH THE SUMMER
So if you know any home that would be happier for this advantage, ask your Storekeeper
to show you a “B” Syphon at 4■/-, or a “C” Syphon at G/6. We recommend the
“C” size—not because it is more expensive, but because it is more economical in use.
Whichever you buy, the friend you buy it for will remember you gratefully every hot day
next year —and for years after.
a
o.
0.
w
Free Offer
Is your old Syphon in working order ?
tfjT IF it isn’t, we want to put it right for you. A
jJ * Sparklet Syphon has some india-rubber
wearing parts, and as rubber does not last for ever,
the Syphon wants new parts now and then. :: ::
This is especially the case when the Syphon has not been in
regular use during winter and spring.
We are therefore offering: to every owner of a
disused Sparklet Syphon
New Wearing Parts Free of Charge.
“SPARKLET” WEARING PARTS.
Pin
Bulb Washer.
3- Tube Washer
If your Sparklet Syphon has been allowed to fall out of use,
these parts will enable you to put it right again. It is quite
easy, and full directions are enclosed.
Renew these parts when worn, and your Syphon will give
you perpetual satisfaction. A Sparklet Syphon is too use-
ful a thing to be allowed to be idle.
CUT OUT THIS COUPON and post it on to us,
and we will send the wearing parts free of all cost.
FREE COUPON B
To
READ & CAMPBELL, LTD.,
40 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me new Washers
g
and Pin for Sparklet Syphon,
bought of„
about years ago.
Name
Address


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
'Tt
Shirt
P;.t. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson § Co.
Pty. Ltd.
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, 10id.
and Is. fid Obtainable everywhere.*
WHAT IS
J
F
,y>
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
• • •
TRY
• • •
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
PURE SCOTCH
WHISKY.
When ordering Whisky you naturally want the best.
You therefore cannot do better than call for CRAWFORD’S
THE FINEST VERY OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
As Supplied to the P. 80. and other large Shipping Companies.
POLICAL
ITEMS
The eminent horse-doctor appears to be
running the Northern Territory irrespec-
tive of the mere Australian Government.
Even Prime Minister J. Cook doesn’t know
what Gilruth is doing. In the House of
Reps, the other night, Joseph remarked: —
We have Professor Gilruth, who is supposed to be
governing the Territory—
Mr. Frazer: Supposed to be?
Mr. Cook: That is all we know about it!
Mr. Frazer: Is he not governing it ?
Mr. Cook: I suppose he is. It is a “suppose”
again. I do not know anything about it.
But there are so many things that Jokook
knows nothing about that a detail like the
Northern Territory is hardly worth men-
tioning.
Higgs, member for Capricornia (Q.) in
Australia’s House of Reps, annoyed Jokook
the other night, merely because he said :
Let me say that the expenditure in this Bill is a
shameless abandonment of the public expressions of
honorable members on the Ministerial side. They
are fools and blind, or they are ignoble knaves. They
are miserable sycophants, crawling to people in high
places, or they are rogues and tricksters who have
got into office by false pretences. Worse than that, I
say they are hollow, insincere, lying hypocrites.
If Higgs hadn’t been pulled up by the
Speaker and suspended from service by 43
votes to eight, he would probably have said
something really nasty.
THE BROKEN PLEDGE.
THE INTRUDER: “Bill Holman, I'm sick and
tired o' you. Three years ago you took
this pledge, and since then you've done
nothing else but break it."
Things turned out most unfortunately at
the annual meeting of the Women’s Liberal
League at Ballan (Vic.) the other day.
The orator of the occasion was H. V.
McKay, the “Sunshine” man, who put up
the tough fight for Deakin’s old Ballarat
seat. McKay poured out his Australian
soul, and urged the tabbies (in quite a
delicate wAy) to keep the continent white.
Then, the White Australian orator having
subsided, the next item was called on —Mr.
Ling Ah Mouey would entertain the com-
pany with a song. When McKay saw his
successor on the White Australian plat-
form, he fled by a side door.
This is how Willie Kelly fell in. The
other day Poynton (S.A.) wanted to know
the circumstances of an alleged saving of
£125,000 made in connection with the Oodna-
datta-Port Augusta railway. Willie replied
that shortly after he was placed in charge
of the Home Affairs Department, tenders
(called by the late Government) for the
supply of £125,000 worth of rolling stock to
enable the railway to be run by the Com-
monwealth came before him. By arrange-
ment with the South Australian Govern-
ment, he said, purchase of that rolling stock
was obviated. The Opposition left Kelly
alone, and presently applied to Glynn, who
answered that the contract referred to was
entered into by the External Affairs L>epart-
ment, of which he is the political head.
Furthermore, Glynn informed the House
that “there is nothing for blame, praise,
credit, or discredit to any side about the
matter.” Kelly took his gentle castigation
in silence. The public rebuke by a senior
colleague was so obvious that even the Op-
position thought it too cruel to rub in the
salt.
A RARE SPECIMEN.
I have lived much in other countries, but in none
of them have I seen so much money spent in sport
and amusements generally by the workers as in this
land of the golden fleece.... They are extrava-
gant and wanton in their use of money. For one
thing, they are too expensively housed, and for
another, too lavishly fed and clad.... Again,
the incentive to save is destroyed by the prospective
payment of the old-age pension ; and that fine, rugged
manhood and spirit of independence—once our boast
—have largely disappeared.
—Daily ray correspondent.
The Hunter: “Hi! Don be fright'tied! I
thought your kind was extinct! I want
yer for my political museum ! ”
For the first nine months of 1913 N.S.W.
imnorted from abroad goods to the value of
£24.064,161 : and exported, by way of pay-
ment. merchandise and gold valued at
£20,290,431. So on its trade alone it went
into debt to the extent of nearly
£4,000,000. And as it had to pay about
£3,000,000 in interest on foreign loans and
investments, it really went to the Devil to
the extent of about £7,000,000. Which is
a lot of devil to go to in nine months.
The history of the State-
owned St. Kilda and
Brighton (Vic.) tramway
shows once more the stark
folly of giving somebody
else the trunk traffic while
you look after the branches
yourself. The little State-
owned line seems to do all
right; yet the revenue in
excess of working exes, in
the past year wasn’t enough
to pay a third of the inter-
est bill. The N. S. Wales
experience is the same. As
a whole the Sydney tram-
ways have been showing
over per cent. ; yet the
feeders have been, by them-
selves, a losing proposition
all the time. Even the
North Sydney system, so
important that half a
million has been spent on it,
has been a pretty consistent
loser of anything over £5OOO a year.
Sir Edward Carson, P.C., K,C., etc., has
been sentenced to seven months’ imprison-
ment for using seditious language. (P.S. —
On re-reading the cable The Bulletin finds
that it was Larkin, a Dublin laborer, who
got the seven months.)
The bad-tempered Cook spent a good part
of last week withdrawing injudicious re-
marks at the direction of the Speaker. The
yapping type of politician is best placed as
one of the chorus, because no one has much
time to spare for impertinences from the
wings. Cook being what he is (tempo-
rarily), the Speaker has to give him special
attention —which is disastrous for the ex-
plosive Joe. Still it must be rather a relief
to Cook to even back out. If it isn’t pro-
gression, it is at least movement, and an
evidence that he isn’t
completely paralysed.
THE TARTY SYSTEM ON THE
ROAD WAQY.
1ST PARTY : “Something needs to be done
here."
2ND PARTY: “Yes; but I'm d—d if I'll let
you do it."
1ST PARTY : “And I'm blowed if I'll let YOU
do it."
Don’t know why; but this par. seems to
insist on getting into this page:—
The “tired feeling” business can be overdone.
F’rinstance, an attendant at Eroni s Circus leant
against the hyena’s cage the other day, and presently
had one of his fingers bitten off. It is not safe to be
tired in proximity to a hyena unless one can be
quite sure that the hyena is also tired.
Sydney Daily Telegraph finds in the
deadlock in the National Parliament an un-
answerable argument against unification.
Supposing all legislative power were vested
in the one Parliament, it says, the whole
business would now be hung up, whereas,
things being as they are, each State can go
ahead developing itself. It was reported the
other day that the Daily Telegraph was
building a new home for itself. This must
be a mistake. If it built one office, and put
the whole staff into it, and an earthquake or
a fire happened along, the entire business
would be hung up. So the Telegraph is
putting its editor into a crib in King-street,
and its news editor into another in Market-
street, and its financial editor is to have his
desk in Mosman, and the sub-editors and re-
porters are to be divided up among the other
suburbs. At least, that is what the D. T.
would do if it ran itself on the principle
which it thinks should guide the running of
Australia.
From “Locust,” who has just fluttered
in:—
The Bulletin’s analysis (9/10/T3) of Willie
Kelly makes plain to me (having just been putting
in some interesting weeks watching the British
Parliament at work) that Willie has caught the
House of Commons manner in the course of his peri-
odical English trips. Among the leaders of the
alleged Mother of Parliaments there is a fine choice
open for the adaptable student, from the rough-and-
ready brilliance of Burns at question-time, through
the truculent, don’t-care-a-damness of Lloyd George,
the fluent cleverness of the very rapidly coming
Masterman (a future Prime Minister), the flippant
God-a’-mightiness of Churchill, to the easy dignity
of Asquith. Apparently Willie Kelly has copied a
little from each, and mixed the various samples into
a thick paste. Some years ago a politician who
measured himself for the Speaker s chair of the
House of Reps., but did not convince his colleagues
that he fitted it, went to London, and, it is said,
spent nine months “stewing” procedure with one of
the clerks of the House of Commons. The local
Parliament, which lately had his valuable services in
the chair, was fortunate in seeing a colorable imita-
tion of the splendid and dignified traditions of the
great alleged Mother of Parliaments.
The Cook Government, which was defeated
last week, as a result of its leader’s rash
acceptance of the battle-gage tendered him
by the other side, will obviously never be
safe except when it is in recess. Take the
problem that is presented by the imperish-
able Bruce Smith, for example. Cook has
been trying his level best, for some time, to
placate the Victorian members of his party.
In the middle of his efforts Bruce uprose
and
complained of the “modern” utterances by the
Prime Minister on the tariff. It seemed as if Mr.
Cook was considering the likelihood of the Liberal
party doing something in the way of imposing higher
duties. He had no sympathy with such a proposal,
and he desired that that should be understood.
About the same time he mentioned darkly
that if any action were to be taken against
the U.S. Beef Trust by the Government, he
would battle, as of yore, for Private Enter-
prise. And in addition to Smith, the
harassed leader has to cope with Conroy, and
he only has a majority of one to do it with.
It is too much to ask of any man.
The redistribution of seats and compiling
of the N. 8. Wales Parliamentary rolls for
the imminent elections have been'completed
ltandwick (city), with tops the list
for bulk of voters; while Macquarie (coun-
try), with 9018, is a mere shadow. Fifteen
of the old electorates, 12 in the country and
three in the city, have disappeared, and have
been replaced by eight in the city and seven
in the country. Thus the grand old conges-
tion policy continues to drain the State’s
body and bulge to bursting point its fat head
N.S.W. Works Minister
Griffith has made the inter-
esting discovery that a man’s
debts are his capital. Hence
if you accumulate enough
pawn-tickets you become a
millionaire; and when you
say good-bye to the bailiff
in the parlor and lie down
on the time-payment sofa
and die, your widow, as she
borrows another shilling to
pay for an advt. asking for
charing, has the great satis-
faction of knowing that her
husband died very rich,
leaving her well-provided-for
-—with debts.
Prime Minister Cook got his revenge early,
and caught the Labor party on Thursday
night with only 14 members in the Chamber,
Taking full advantage of the opportunity, he
bullocked his Loan Bill through by the mer-
ciless use of the closure. Metaphorically
speaking, he danced with both feet on the
Opposition, and taught it a very useful
lesson. There are 75 members of the House
of Reps.—3B Ministerialists and 37 Labor-
ites. Cook managed to gather up 25, or
10 more than Fisher had behind him; which
suggests that either the Labor discipline is
very lax or that the party doesn’t think the
mere pawning of Australia is a matter of any
consequence whatever.
While in Groperdom, Lough, a member of
the British Parliamentary Party, poured the
following remarks into the listening ear of a
Perth daily :
Anyway, Japan is really not near to Australia. It
is many days’ sail away, and if Australia were threat-
ened, and there were any need for intervention on
the part of the fleet at Home, it would not take
long for our war-dogs to arrive on the spot.
Also, there is a fair quantity of water
between Germany and England ; so what is
wrong with keeping the whole British navy
in the Mediterranean? Certainly, if any-
thing went wrong, and the German got in
first, a few English cities might be reduced
to ashes, and a few thousand British turned
into corpses ; but it is really no worse to be
a British corpse than an Australian cadaver.
NECESSITY AS A VIRTUE.
Apart from the inherent impropriety of throwing
any sort of dust in the eyes of the people, the Lib-
erals at the present juncture have all to lose by the
blurring of the true cleavage line and nothing to
gain. —Daily Telegraph.
The Trainer : “No, no, Greggy, we mustn’t
interjuce these inter the ring! It might
embarrass our opponent a lot; but then,
again, the fight might be given against
us on a foul!"
One of the points set forth by Higgs,
M.H.R., during that debate in which Ryrie,
called him “a miserable body
snatcher.” was that the cost of defence in
Australia is excessive. In Great Britain,
which is the worst case of all, the bill for
the bloated armaments is said to be 31s. 9d.
per inhabitant per annum ; France, 275. 5d.:
Australia, 235. 6d.; Germany, 18s. 9d.; and
so on down to Japan (4s. Gd.). But, after
all, area and density of population count for
a great deal. Thus Japan (the four-and-six-
penny country), on the Higgs estimate, puts
up roughly £75 12s. per annum for the de-
fence of each souare mile of its territory,
while Australia puts up something like £2.
The bill may be numerous, but the people
are few.
BALLADE OF GOD-BLESS-YOU!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dubbo, Tuesday.—Mr. Griffith, Minister for Works,
turned the first sod of the Dubbo-Werris Creek rail-
way this afternoon. He was accorded a civic recep-
tion. He assured them that this was no empty cere-
mony. He had already two surveyors’ camps on the
ground, and as soon as a couple of miles had been
staked out and levels taken the work would be
started. — Neu's item.
Censure for many and praise for a few ;
Harsh objurgations for those who offend ;
Mild exhortations from Pulpit to Pew ;
Sulphur for sinners from Hell-without-end !
Lofty advice for each dissolute friend ;
Christian excuses for parties in quod ;
Howls for the Lost who drink Old Highland Blend —-
God bless a Minister laying a sod !
Cheers for the noble and generous Jew,
Ready, aye f ready his shekels to lend,
Just in exchange for our mere I O U,
Or a P.N. —rather hurriedly penned.
Curses far deeper than voice can descend
Light on the folk who regard it as odd
That Labor displays such a pawnable trend —-
God bless a Minister laying a sod !
Hoots for all croakers who say loans fall due!
Jeers for the fools who think prices ascend:
This Ship of State has a jolly good crew—
Who cares a rap what they borrow and spend ?
What does a five per cent, bank rate portend?
Just go ahead with the chain and the rod!
Look ! there’s his motor-car rounding the bend—
God bless a Minister laying a sod !
Envoy.
Prince, for their railways our townships contend,
Pleading they're packed thick as peas in a pod ;
What will they do when the lines turn and rend?
God bless a Minister laying a sod !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Ghe CLAVIOLA PIANO.
When listening to a highly-accomplished
pianist playing some well-known com-
position, you are impressed with three
things—the musician’s perfect command
of the keyboard, his sympathetic touch,
and the individuality he is able to pi t
l nto the music.
Try and realise how delightful it is to
be able to bring such a complete com-
mand and individuality to the piano,
EACH OF THESE GREAT GIFTS
ARE YOURS when you purchase a
CLAVIOLA PIANO from PALING’S.
&/>e Claviola
Player-Piano
The glorious CLAVIOLA PIANO is unquestionably the finest and
most perfect player-piano in existence. A masterpiece of construction,
the CLAVIOLA PIANO gives to you, EVEN IF YOU CANNOT
PLAY A NOTE BY HAND, a wonderful control of all the
resources of the Piano, a sympathetic touch upon the keys, and your
own individuality.
THE CLAVIOLA PIANO makes you a real musician, without all the
years of study and drudgery of learning to play by hand. In order that
you may obtain the very best idea of the musical possibilities of the superb
CLA VIOLA PIANO, please visit our Claviola Salon. Here we shall be
pleased to play your favorite music, and to explain the artistic qualities
and wonderful simplicity of the CLAVIOLA. Our interesting Art Booklet
will be posted to customers unable to inspect. We sell on easy time
payments.
o
338 George Street,
And at Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane, Toowoomba.
The Coolest Wear
in Tropic Heat.
Leviathan
Tussorette S&C Splits
(Ready=to=wear).
WHEN the sun gets busy in Aus-
tralia’s Tropic Places, a good
recipe for coolness is worth a
lot of money. Suppose you sample a
suggestion:—Wear a smartly-cut, well-
made, ready-tailored Leviathan Tussor-
ette Suit. You’ll find it the coolest
kind of clothes you’ve yet put on.
THE COAT is of smart fashion, with
long lapels, full skirt and vent. It has
loose facings for washing, outside patch
pockets, and 3 shrunk buttons. All
seams double stitched.
THE VEST has loose facings, shrunk
buttons and long points.
THE TROUSERS are of American cut,
with wide thighs. They have side pockets
and American waistband, with Tan
Shade Suede Belt to match, Well
stayed.
iSjOL
111
In Biscuit
Shade,
2516.
In Straw and Ecru Colors 27/6
Or in closely-woven, soft-finished, Bis-
cuit-colored Tussorette 30/-
Suits to Order, 52/6
(Mail Order Special).
Please Write for Patterns and Forms, Post Free.
We Pay Freight on All Orders to Any Address in Australia.
Our Catalogue is post free, and you ought to have a copy.
The Leviathan
For Full Value and Good Style,
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, rielbourne.
m
EHSicrrp
A DAYLIGHT-LOADING ROLL FILM CAMERA cf Exceptional Value.
Tb? FOLDING ENSIGNS
(New Model) ~~~
The compact neatness of these beautiful little Cameras is very
remarkable. They slip easily into the pocket, and they are
better-looking and better finished than any Camera ever sold at
such low prices. We guarantee the Folding Ensigns to take good
clear pictures, and their simple construction enables the beginner
to do this from the first.
PRICES:
FOLDING ENSIGN," complete with Book of Instructions,
takes pictures in. x in. 25/-
u Z]/\ FOLDING ENSIGN," complete with Book of Instructions,
takes pictures x ... ... 4,5/-
A FOLDING ENSIGN," complete with Book of Instructions,
takes pictures x 3^in., Post-card Size ... 50/-
If you cannot call and see these fine Cameras, write for full
particulars and specimen pictures taken with them.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ,
Also at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
and WELLINGTON (N.Z.).
UJ?


STIFF JOINTS.
From whatever source arising there can be
no greater cause of pain than that .inflict?
by Stiff Joints. Like a Fully fitting door
the bending or straight-
ening of the leg or
arm, or the part affected
moves with a jar. so ex-
cruciatingly painful that
it is only a matter or
time before the joints
become fixed. Bathing,
friction, oils, liniment,
and ointments have m
thousands of cases prow
utterly unavailing. &tll .
Joints that resisted an
other treatment have
yielded to the powerful
influence of Comsto l
Nerve and Bone Lin'
ment. Persevering «se
of this liniment will' cause the most s
born case to relax. . , ofrirp .
Sold by all leading chemists and stor
keepers, price 2s. 6c1., or will be sent P ,
free at same price by The W. H. Co
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.*
|'«s y
v/
>
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
E. RES CD’S LIMITED, Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOCRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Don’t Accept “Just as Good” Belting-
There’s a way to tell the genuine—look for the “Pioneer” Trade Mark stamped on
“PIONEER”
Leather Belt.
That’s the only way to be sure of getting “real service,
perfect power transmission.
Every belt guaranteed.
” tight gripping, durability
Write for sample and price
and
lists.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer Work*,
117 York St.. SYDNEY^
SPORITNG
NOTIONS
That Pot of Excitement, the Melbourne
Cup, which has been bubbling with increasing ardor
for the last three months, boiled over at 3.10
on Tuesday afternoon, when out of the crush that
thundered down the straight Posinatus, Belove and
Ulva’s Isle came to the front, and finished in that
order. The winner is the five-year-old gelding son
of Fortunatus from Whakatiko, and is owned and
trained by J. Chambers.
* * * * ♦
Beragoon’s capture of the V.R.C. Derby
was a popular revival of the ancient order of things.
Four years had elapsed since an A.J.C. Derby winner
confirmed his excellence at I* lemington, and in this
case the confirmation was complete. Starting first
favorite for choice, although the odds against him
rose from 6 to 4 at the outset of the betting to
2 to 1 at the start, Beragoon won the race at both
ends, and did it in record time. He took the lead
for the first few furlongs, was never further back
than third, and after rounding the turn for home
took the lead again, and increased it all the way
to the judge’s box. But for the vague suspicion that
he might fail to go the full distance, Beragoon
would have jumped immediately into first favoritism
for the Cup. Had he been a son of Positano instead
of Multiform, punters would have rushed him as a
moral. On paper there was nothing for a first-class
three-year-old to beat among the older horses at the
weights—bar, perhaps, the always questionable Sea
Prince.
No improvement in Beragoon had been remarked
since he came to Flemington, yet he must have im-
proved a lot. That sturdy little Radnor did not
trouble him this time. Andelosia finished nearer
to Radnor than at Randwick, and Ulva’s Isle (said
to have received a nasty bump in the race) was no
further away. Of the beaten ones, Ulya’s Isle looked
the most promising Cup candidate (with the proviso
that a 6st. Vlb. boy could manage him), for he was
palpably short of work on Saturday. Taking them
all on their appearance in the birdcage, anyone
would have picked the Isle as a Cup horse of the
future, notwithstanding his somewhat wicked eye.
As a rule, the books, who are the best judges of
the game, give more heed to the Melbourne Stakes
running than to ordinary w.f.a. form. Twelve actual
winners of the Cup within 25 years have been placed
in the Stakes and several horses that didn’t win the
Cup were placed in both events. For instance, Car-
bine, who won both Stakes and Cup in 1890, was
the runner-up in both events the previous year. The
field for the Stakes last Saturday included eight of
the Cup acceptors, Uncle Sam, Aurifer and Moun-
tain Princess being seriously backed to beat Anna
Carlovna (scratched for the Cup), whilst Harpist
and Wassail were treated as mere out-for-an-airing
candidates with no visible chance of winning. The
somewhat unaccountable feature of the betting was
Anna Carlovna’s price (6 to 4), as compared with
Aurifer’s 5 to 1. Their running in the Caulfield
Cup didn’t warrant this preference for the mare.
Aurifer gave her 61b. at Caulfield, and was going as
fast as she at 10 furlongs, and faster at 12 furlongs.
In the 10 furlongs Stakes race there was only 51b.
difference between them, yet Anna Carlovna was
backed as a certainty, and she ran up to market
form. It seems that Connolly was unlucky to miss
his Caulfield Cup coup with the honest mare. Anna
Carlovna is a good one, and had she been left in the
Melbourne Cup, punters would have taken short
odds that she could stay the course. There was no
doubt as to her being the pick of the handicap on
her Caulfield Cup and subsequent running. Hence
the reasonable assumption that Connolly thought he
had a real good thing in Sea Prince, who ran a
respectable race in the Stakes.
Traquette’s easy victory in the Maribyrnong Plate
is no promise of a career for the filly after she has
done her two-year-old dash. She is by Traquair from
Simmereth. One of the slick and early sort.
The fact that Hallowmas, carrying Bst. 131 b., was
beaten by only half a neck for the Hotham Handicap
suggests that owner Merton should have left the sour
English horse in the Cup to try his luck. Hallowmas
and Matouru (who started favorite and ran nowhere
in the H.H.) strike one as a likely pair for the
V.R.C. Handicap on Saturday.
* '*■**
Cagou, Harpist and Ulva’s Isle were the
most promising trio of stable companions that any
trainer ever prepared for a Melbourne Cup. The pair
of 4-vear-olds had proved themselves capable of stay-
ing the distance at a fair nace, and one of them —
Cagou—had performed brilliantly over 12 furlongs.
The youngster —by Positano from Lord Ullin’s Daugh-
ter—was bred to stay, and had been running on at
the finish of the A.J.C. Derby. In a year when the
Cup field looked weak, these three stable companions
had each a good chance of winning. Scobie didn’t
hold a stronger hand when he sent four horses to the
post, and two of them —Clean Sweep and Malster —
finished first and second.
A Tale of the Turf as the Turf is in
Sydney. The (say) Rooster Bros, had decided that
the time was ripe for another win by their occa-
sionally flying neddy, Walnut. They were confident
that after the way he had driven whole fields home
before him, the price was safe to be 10 to 1 against.
Immediately that price was called a commission was
to be worked in the Rooster Bros’, well-known
polished style. Gus Dasher, a jockey of credit and
renown, was chosen to carry off the coup. Every-
thing was all nicely arranged a week before the
race. But during that week the younger Rooster
told McFlake, the tobacconist, of the sure thing.
Mac immediately handed out £25, and asked Rooster
to invest it for him on the course. He opined that
£250 would come in useful. But, being a generous
soul, Mac whispered the good tidings to a relative in
the softgoods line; who also handed out £25 with
a request to get it on. Rooster duly undertook the
commission, and they went forth to make a libation,
which cost three hours and £2 10s. Betting on the
Rabbitskin Handicap, 7| furlongs, opened with four
to one against Walnut. The brothers grunted hard,
swore a little and waited. All sorts of odds flew
round, but Walnut stuck religiously at fours. Time
was running out and the elder Rooster took the
jockey aside and nointed out that it was not worth
winning at less than 10 to 1 against. The jockey
agreed. “Well, see here,” said Rooster. “You’ll be
going out for the preliminary in a few minutes. I'll
be standing just here. If me hat’s off, it’s no win.
If it’s on, let him go ; and put it to him hot and
strong. Unnerstan’?” The jockey repeated it care-
fully, and swore it was indelibly written on his
memory. On the track Walnut moved as though fit
to run for a continent —but in the ring he never
moved. He stuck hopelessly at 4 to 1 against.
Rooster played himself in position with his hat under
his arm, and as he did so his brother came through
the ring and whispered : “Whatever blanky flash pun-
ter has forestalled us to-day will fall right in!"
There was delay at the post, but Walnut scuck fast
at fours. The younger Rooster slipped away and
wired to McFlake that the win was Off and there was
no bet —all was off, including the horses at the
barrier. The disgusted barber rushed to the draper
and they both took to drink. The elder Rooster stood
doggedly at his post, his hat under his arm, and com-
menced to take cold in the head. He sneezed four
times violently. The field swung into the straight
and a great roar went up: “Walnut walks in—walks
in!” The elder Rooster jammed his hat on and toge-
ther they hustled till they got a splendid view of
Walnut romping home a winner by six lengths. Sen-
sation. Alas, at the precise hour the younger Rooster
was giving McFlake the “office,” Dasher was calling
on Ephraim O'Grady, who maketh a book ; and as
the result of that interview Dasher and O Grady were
considerably enriched by the victory of Walnut in
the Rabbitskin Handicap, 7f furlongs.
“The Emu”: Duke Kahanamoku, the
Kanaka boy the Americans took to Stockholm in their
Olympic team, does not swim the crawl stroke, as is
usually thought, but something peculiarly his own.
It is the laziest-looking stroke I have ever seen. The
Americans say he swims the original crawl stroke,
but they sav anything. At top sneed he is very
deceptive. He appears to be loafing through the
water, yet the clocks have a hard time to beat him.!
I saw him the first time he went out to break a
record, and took photos, of the swim. It was done
in the open harbor, between two wharves, Diving
from his board he covered the distance in a fraction
over the 55sec. There was some doubt as to the
actual time, as the keepers were all amateurs, but it
was plain that the boy was extraordinary, and 1 would
stand watching for the world’s big event. _ He never
hurried once, I, being used to the quick action
of our Australian boys, thought he would not come
within yards of the time. Great long arms Whirl
over his' head at full length and the sweep he makes
with them sends him through the water at terrific
pace. So far as 1 have seen, he always uses the
ordinary scissors kick, and has nothing at all of
the paddle-wheel foot-action. Kahanetcetera is
strictly an amateur, and does not want to lose this
status for the next Olympic games ; but he has the
American love of the almighty dollar. From what
I know of him, I think he will come to Australia if
there is enough money offering, but not unless. He
has some good offers from the swimming clubs in
California, and the last I heard he, or rather his
manager, was debating whether to accent the Aus-
tralian or the American offer. One last word concerning
the yarn that he is accustomed to turning in short
baths. It was not until he went to swim in the
trials for the Olympic team that he had even seen a
short bath. A plank was rigged up out at Waikiki
beach, and there he practised.
One of the most awful cricket lickings on
record has just been given in Adelaide by East
Torrens (local premiers) to Glenelg, which is pretty
weak in the absence of Crawford. Glenelg scored
124 and 126; East Torrens, two wickets for 393
(declared). Len Chamberlain was 201 not out, Mid-
dleton 161. The match was won by an innings and
eight wickets and 143 runs ! Whitty mowed down 15
wickets for 127, and the irrepressible Chamberlain
lent a hand with most of the other victims.
ACROBATIC PUGILISIS.
A frequent position of the muscular boxers,
Young Nipper (the top dog) and Holberg (the
loser) in their mild disagreement at the Syd-
ney Stadium.
The fourth round of Sydney First-Grade
Cricket commenced on Saturday, under ideal condi-
tions, the weatlier being charming and the wickets
excellent. But take it all round, it was a bowler’s
day, the batsmen failing very miserably in the cases
of Redfern, Sydney, University, Central Cumberland
and North Sydney. 'the top score was Bardsley’s
106 for Glebe against Gordon, and the second best
the 82' of his clubmate Kelleway. After that the
figures dropped to the 71 of Barnes, of Redfern. One
of the best performances was that of the reliable
Folkard, of Balmain, who took six Redfern wickets
for 64, and then hit up 41 with the bat. Massie, of
University, took five Sydney wickets for 32 ; Long,
of North Sydney, felled five of Central Cumberland's
for 35, and Dr. Hordern four for 12; to which
Coogan, of Central Cumberland, replied by smashing
up four of' North Sydney’s for 32. Coogan’s club-
mate, Pye, took two wickets for one run; and
Docker, of Western Suburbs, three of Middle Har-
bor’s for 32. Just there the things worthy of notice
end. Balmain dismissed Redfern for 170, and
managed to hit up 72' for the loss of two wickets
before the light failed. Glebe made the score of the
day, bashing 335 off Gordon for the loss of eight
wickets. Most astonishing, however, was the sight
of Sydney, after being put through for a miserable
68, smashing up University for 142. Central Cum-
berland and North Sydney gave a shocking exhibi-
tion, the former making only 80 and North Sydney
doing worse with 61. There was still time for
Central Cumberland to start on its second innings
and hit 46 without losing a stick, so it can be
imagined how the wickets tumbled around. Middle
Harbor rattled up 226, and then Western Suburbs
bashed its bowling for 89 without losing a wicket.
Petersham ran Glebe hard for pride of place, knock-
ing up 352 off Paddington, which started to reply
with eight for no broken sticks. A side issue was a
match between Waverley and Dr. O’Hara’s XI. The
Doctor’s team was slaughtered for 94 ; then, with
the help of Flynn, who smacked 113 before he
vanished from the scene, Waverley accumulated 247
for five wickets,
* * * *
South Australia is on the warpath early
for the Sheffield Shield, and although the first match
—that with N.S.W. at Sydney—does not take place
till December 19, the selectors have chosen 19 men
of might and told them to get mightier still for that
occasion. It's good business —a willing courtesy to
one s opponents that leads to success. #
Of Clarence Weber’s resultless wrastling
displav against Wasem, at Melbourne Guildhall, the
most to be said for the Australian champion is that
he probably would have been given the decision on
points. He was top dog, as a rule, but his superior
height and activity availed nothing against the nug-
getty man from America. In weight they were fairly
matched —134 stone each of them. In methods they
were not strikingly contrasted. Wasem didn’t
know enough to get Weber into serious difficulties;
and Weber labored in vain to fix Wasem with both
shoulders on the mat. Previous to the belated
struggle of the two Ws, a lightweight or middle-
weight champion from Britain took on one of Weber s
pupils for 10 minutes. The visitor had about 4st.
the worse of the deal, but he appeared to be able
to do as he liked with his huge young opponent.
Australian wrastlers have a lot to learn.
The Timaru-Christchurch (M.L.) cycling
record, which looked as firm as Mount Cook, was
biffed aside by Phil O'Shea last week. Philip started
from scratch, and did quite a lot of things. He
gathered the cash that tails to the man who finishes
first and makes the fastest time. Also, he hacked
7min. 2sec. off Henderson’s shr. 22min. record time
for the 112 miles. He is easily Maoriland s fastest
road-plugger, and is identical with the O Shea who
won the Australian championship in the Warrnambool
of 1911.
Waverley (Sydney) had a woolly time in
the summer baseball struggle on Saturday. In the
first grade Leichhardt jumped on the Waverley tied.
Sox —19 runs to six. But the Blue Sox smashed
up Petersham by 27 runs to 14, and so saved the
funereal suburb from being altogether shrouded in
gloom during a pleasant Sunday. The new venture
is somewhat hard hit by the announcement of the
N.S.W. Baseball Assoc, that, it has power to, and
will, disqualify all players under the summer banner.
A lot of the best have therefore stayed out, and the
army of barrackers seems insufficient to make a
financial success of the venture.
Apparently some degree of safety is to be
imported into flying by monoplane. Pegoud, the
daring Frenchman who recently looped the loop
1000 ft. from the earth, has been demonstrating the
value of a new kind of parachute to fliers whose
aeroplanes go suddenly wrong. The contrivance was
designed and made by another Frenchman named
Bonnet. It is contained in a folding sheath fastened
to the frame of the machine. A cord is looped
round the flier’s body just below his shoulders. In
the event of accident all the ’planer has to do is to
grab the cord and pull. This detaches the aeroplane
from the machine and causes it to fill out, and all
the birdman has to see to is that he gets clear of
the falling machine. In Pegoud's case he let his
’plane suddenly go on its own, and grabbed the cord ;
then the parachute, filling out, lifted him bodily
from his now dangerously rocking vehicle, which
dashed from under him. Pegoud circled round and
round, and finally alighted in a clump of trees and
got caught in the top branches, from which he was
soon released by the crowd. The aeroplane flew on,
turned over, and came down with a bang which
smashed it to pieces. Of course, the new invention
does not absolutely do away with danger, but it
should reduce it by about 75 per cent.
* * * *
The oldest living pugilist, so far as this
paper knows, is George Brown, who will be 90 on
November 23. He was one of the ring-keepers at
the Sayers and Heenan fight, at which Vincent Dow-
ling, editor of Bell’s Life, was the referee. George
Brown lives nowadays at Brighton (Eng.), and is in
good health and comfortable circumstances.
When Wells demanded that either Reg
Baker or Arthur Scott should referee his fight with
Mehegan at Melbourne, he, no doubt, did it with a
view to making good advertising copy. But press and
promoter were alike tired, and the spectacle of Wells
or his management asking for' Scott, who had been
absolutely barred in the former fight at Sydney, was
conducive to disgust and ribaldry. The desire for
advertisement was altogether too plain. Baker put
both feet down firmly, refused to either adjudicate
himself or bring Scott all the way from Sydney to do
it, and finally appointed the stipendiary Melbourne
referee, E. Fullalove, to the job. Which was emi-
nently right and proper.
The evil luck that has dogged Danish
boxer Waldemar Holberg ever since he arrived in
Australia hit specially hard on Saturday night when,
at Sydney Stadium, after a heady fight which, in
the opinion of the pressmen and most of the audi-
ence, he absolutely won, referee Scott awarded the
verdict to Young Nipper. To this writer, it seemed,
beyond all questic.m Holberg’s fight for 19 of the
20 rounds. Nippers astonishment when Scott placed
a hand on his head was comical. Then his expression
turned quickly to one of intense elation. For a
moment the audience was dumb with amazement;
then it found its breath, and there was a terrific
demonstration of disapproval. Men of most perfect
odor and high commercial rank stood up and hooted
like- hooligans. It is an unfair and foolish thing,
though, to hoot a referee no matter how wrong his
decision may seem, unless there is reason to doubt
his impartiality ; and not the wildest hooter of them
all questions Mr. Scott’s probity. To hoot a referee
for giving an unpopular decision in all honesty is
merely a crude way of demanding that he shall in
future give the verdict to the more popular contestant
regardless of his own judgment. And the admirable
thing about Scott is that he gives his opinion every
time regardless of what anybody else thinks. All
the same, this appears to have been Arthur -Scott’s
dizzy limit in blunders ; it is almost impossible that
he can ever cap it. Writer has thought hard, but
can’t recall any set of circumstances on which the
referee could base his decision —which only shows
how different the same thing may appear to several
sets of eyes. Young Nipper was in a bad way more
than once. Then, also, the great majority of his
blows were either effectively blocked or evaded alto-
gether, and many simply missed through bad tim-
ing. Over and over again, when he was going to hit,
Holberg anticioated him with a straight left to the
face, just as Dave Smith did Bradley, The Dane,
being unusually short in the reach, has to take a
certain amount of punishment in order to get in
. close enough to hit ; but on Saturday night he took
the most of it on his gloves and forearms. On the
other hand, hardly a blow of his but made imnact.
There was nothing spectacular about it, but it was a
good, hard-working boxing contest. The crowd has
of late, however, been so accustomed to see Jerry
Jerome unfold cyclones of blows and hurricanes of
wallops that it voted this performance dull, and
ironically counted the men out. It looks as though
the poniilar taste is drifting to that of New York
and Pennsylvania, where six-round and 10-rourid bouts
are put on, on the understanding that they shall
roar from the jump If that plan were
adopted here it would he bad for the boxers;
so those gentlemen will, if they are wise,
go in for hurricane fighting, regardless of risks and
the ethics of the sport.
In spite of rain before and during the mill
about il),U00 people roiled into Baker’s Melbourne
Stadium to watch the return Mehegan-Wells scrap
r ihe wild riot over the decision in the last one, and
the loud wrangle over the question whether Wells
displayed “ring generalship” or merely skedaddled
had aroused considerable interest in the disturbance'
hither lured on by his extra Boz, of weight or stung
by the criticism of his style of fighting, Wells took
his fist. lb. into the fray with the fixed determina-
tion, apparently, of putting things beyond all q ues .
tion by knocking the Australian out. But when lie
got into the midst of the battle he found Mehegan out
of reach behind the famous smother, through which
he tried in vain to break. Mehegan was like the
famous Roman tortoise, which, though it could be
hit only on the shield, could wallop back to the heart
or head. After landing a few ineffectual blows, Wells
began to stop something that made him think hard
He is, however, so superbly light on his feet and
quick with his fists that he repeatedly hit Ilughie
very hard when that slower but harder-hitting war-
rior was coining out of his smother. 1-or several
rounds he managed to land quite a lot of lefts at
that juncture; but the obdurate Mehegan, regarding
them no more than thistledown, walloped back hard
and often, and Wells had to break away before the
fury of his blows. As the fight progressed in-fighting
became more frequent. In this Wells was clearly
out-pointed, and Mehegan, like the avalanche, was
gathering spied as he rolled round the ring, follow-
ing up better and hitting more viciously. In the
18th round Mehegan cut loose and gave Wells a very
torrid time, catching him in corners, and bashing him
unmercifully. Still, Wells’s marvellous footwork
stood to him and enabled him to minimise the inju-
ries. It was the same in the 19th, when Mehegan
pressed the Hebrew very hard. Wells tried to gallop,
but Mehegan had been training hard for sprinting.
In the final Mehegan walked straight in for a knock-
out. Wells showed some superb defensive fighting;
yet Mehegan had just got him coraled when the hell
rang. Thereupon the referee handed Mehegan the
loaves and fishes, and with them the championship.
Some opposition was shown ; but the winner haii
found favor with the best judges and the majority
of the crowd alike. Anyhow, Wells is no squealer,
and took his defeat like a good descendant of Judas
Makkabi should.
That Richard Arnst had done all that
careful preparation could do to win hack the scull-
ing championship from James Paddon, on Parra-
matta River, on Saturday, was proved by the splen-
did condition in which he finished. Early in the
race the towering Paddon got a length ahead, and
from that moment Arnst newer had a chance. He
rowed a stern chase, and rowed it magnificently, with
a dogged pluck that made onlookers regret there
could not be two winners. Again and again he
spurted, and slightly reduced the increasing gap
between the boats ; then Paddon would bend to it,
increase his stroke, and lift his shell through the
water at greater speed, making good the loss and
adding a little more to his lead. Curiously enough
the beaten man finished much the fresher of the
two ; and had it been a race till one fell overboard
through sheer attrition, Arnst would have won. But
it wasn’t, and Paddon’s superiority was good enough
for the distance. There was nothing spectacular
about the contest. A procession, no matter how hard
the pursuer struggles, is never wildly interesting. In
fact, the sight of a hopeless struggle is liable to be
depressing, and this was a most hopeless-looking
struggle. But it was a mighty important affair to
the men engaged. It puts Arnst practically down
and out as far as championships are concerned, and
also places Paddon in the direct line of succession
to the championship of the world. The conditions
were charming. The course was never kept so clear
before ; the only stranger that eluded the police and
got into the fairway was a dead marine, and, of
course, it had to collide with Arnst’s oar-blade and
throw him out of his swing. The river was floored
over with craft of every kind, huge crowds were on
the banks, and the “gate” on the official steamers
unexpectedly large; while as for the day, it was
ideal for the rowers.
The Parramatta course is three miles 330 yards,
and Paddon covered it in 21min. 41sec. Last year
Barry beat Arnst over the 4J miles Thames course
(Putney to Mortlake) in 23min. Bsec. Later on, he
beat Human over the same course in 22min. 31sec.
On that showing Paddon will have to improve a lot
before he challenges England’s champion with any
chance of success. Arnst, when at his zenith, would
have beaten Paddon’s Saturday effort easily, as in
1911 he defeated Pearce in 19min. 46sec. In 1909
he was even better still —he covered three miles
440. yards, on the Wanganui (M.L.), in 18min. 14
3-ssec. It is early, then, to talk of Paddon as a
world-beater on his showing of Saturday, though, of
course, we do not know what he had in reserve.
The last cheerful travel-round-the-world-
on-nothing crank to be heard from is 11. E. Coulson,
who allegedly bet an Anglo-Indian nothing to £lOOO
that he could bike round the world in two years.
Coulson was not to beg, borrow or steal, but to earn
his own living on land by advertising, lecturing and
selling postcards of himself. At sea he was to work
h'is passage. Last week he howled into Melbourne,
having traversed the 575 miles from Adelaide in 10
days—this frightful time being due to several
smashes. He started from Bombay, and is due to
finish in Colombo. His complete itinerary amounts
to 40,000 miles, and so far he has covered 5581.
Curiously enough it was the stipulation that ™
should work his passage by sea that gave the first
trouble. He found himself at Sourahaya, in Java,
but owing to the prevalence of Asiatic crews he
could not secure a passage to Hong Kong for •>»
days. He rides a Durkopp bike with Continental
tyres. _____


Stop Courting Disaster!
Learn to Defend Yourself!
Be wise in time. Learn to box now.
Don’t wait until the scars of battle convince
you of your need. Surely you’ve seen in-
stances enough of the inoffensive being
unjustly set upon. Just because they could
not take their own part. Perhaps you’ve
been lucky so far. But your turn will
surely come.
Why not be certain of yourself by know-
ing how to use your hands? I can teach you
to be a skilful Boxer in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
Everything is thoroughly explained, and,
as the instruction teaches the best moves of
the most celebrated modern champion boxers,
you can realise how much you can learn —
what an advantage you’ll have over your
fellows.
Here is an extract from a pupil’s letter
“The only way that I can get any
practice is by shadow sparring. Thev all
say around here that I hit too hard," and
won’t put on the gloves with me.
“J.S.E., Inglewood (Q.)
my tuition. It will give you an idea how you
That is excellent proof of the soundness of
can improve.
„„ . not get fuller information, cost of tuition, etc.? Write for illustrated, 32-page booklet
Scientihe Boxing in lour Home. Kindly send three penny stamps to cover cost of postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
263 BELMONT BUILDINGS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
This is the
I U
%
Actual Size.
Cigar
that is a favorite
smoke with those who
appreciate a mild cigar
with a pleasing flavor
and fine aroma.
It is
MY
“LA NOVA”
—a Dutch Cigar de luxe.
It is a much better
cigar than you would
expect for the money,
and gives satisfaction
from start to finish.
Packed in Boxes of 25.
7/6 per Box,
30/- per 100.
Postage on one box,
Gd.; inter-State, Bd.
Write for a copy of
my Catalog, “A Book
of flood Smokes.”
A. M. SOLOMON
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
BEST RESULTS
'■'V;-
ASSURED ON
is
fc 4
BENZINE.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
A MONTHLY GUIDE for ev'erytHin* Aus-
tralian. That’s Thk Lonk Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth ! ”
m.
Si 0
35
yyy
M IS*
bimplicii*
Employ
us.”
“ / have thou-
sands of sisters
in service, all
doing well.
I'heir masters
and mistresses
are delighted
with their
smart, quick,
reliable work
and scrupulous
cleanliness
The Onoto is the best pen
to employ, because it simpli-
fies writing. it fills itself
instantly without mess oi
bother W’iies splendidly
and cannot leak.
Onoto
The pen to possess
Price 12/- and upwards of
all Stationers, Jrwellers, and
Stores. Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on app ication
to Thos i)e la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., 201, Bunhill Row,
London, E.C., or the Man-
aging Agents for Australasia,
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
50 York Street, Sydney.
your teeth to last
as long as possible
1
Calvert’s
■Tooth Fowder
, Sold by local Chemists and S'ores-
Made by F. C. Calvert &■ Co., Manchester , F.no.
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
riTIIE Best Stories written by Australian
X Wriiers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthlj-.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., LIMITED.
Mr.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE RIGNEY SHOE FOR MEN
mn
The careful dresser wears Rigney Shoes
because he knows they combine correct
appearance with long service and permanent
comfort.
Wby not buy Rigney Shoes next time you
need footwear?
The Shoe illustrated is a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price 32/6
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” : The committee
of the V.R.C. owns an historical curio, framed
and exhibited upon a wall of the committee
room, in the Bourke-street offices. It is a
bank note of the face-value of £l —or would
be of that face-value if it were genuine.
Fifty-odd years ago an officer in the Vic-
torian Survey Office invented photo-litho-
graphy. and this is how. It was necessary
often to reduce plans to scale, and to do it
a special lens was imported at a cost of
350 guineas. In the course of experiments
with this lens a Mr. Osborne reproduced a
bank note of the time. It was faithfully
done, and was submitted to Charles Why-
brow Ligar, then Surveyor-General. This
gentleman took it to several bank managers,
who pronounced it a genuine note. When told
that it was a forgery, and that the new pro-
cess made spurious bank-note making as easy
as shelling peas, they were much alarmed.
Mr. Osborne, however, gave them the anti-
dote : “Print your bank notes in colors.”
They saw the need of it, and colored-print
notes at once came into use. A young man
named Henry Byron Moore was then in the
Survey Office, and associated in the experi-
ment ; he had received a practical education
in chemistry and printing, his father having
given his sons a laboratory and printing press
to practise with at home. Moore was asked
by Mr. Ligar to study photo-lithography and
did so, and thus the note came into his
hands A few years later the same Byron
Moore was a Black Wednesday victim, and,
thus losing his public-service job. became
secretary of the V.R.C., and passed the his-
torical note to the club. Mr. Osborne died
in America last year.
s
f
/¥
——
DUNLOP
CARDEN NOSE
offers extra service
without extra cost
The quality and construction of
this durable and non-splitting
Hose ensures users years of
wear and satisfaction. It has
NO EQUAL in this Country.
* * *
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES,
BUT ACCEPT ONLY DUNLOP BRANDS
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO.
All States
and N.Z.


PIJJJ
bTgv!
STEWART DAWSON’S
Give One Month Free Trial
When you buy a STEWART DAWSON WATCH you get a
fully guaranteed, reliable timepiece. We have supplied the public
with high-grade watches for upwards of 41 years. The reputation ot
the firm has been built by the quality of its goods.
Buy a STEWART DAWSON WATCH and use it fairly for one
month. If not satisfied at the end of that period your money will be
REFUNDED IN FULL. And remember you are buying at I IRS I
COST PRICES. Write for illustrated Watch Catalogue. We pay
the postage.
p
Side View, showing
exact thickness.
This High=Grade Lady’s f=Plate Lever
is the thinnest Watch made. The movement is highly-polished Nickel,
set with 15 Ruby Jewels and compensation balance. This Watch has
been awarded an A.l Swiss Government Observatory Certificate, a
record by no other make for such a small size. In 18ct. Gold,
Engine-turned Case.
PRICE £7.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON : 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
73/6
Q
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ::
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
r
X
STEVENS
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS.
Choke bored for nitro powder. Case hard-
ened frame.
For any standard make of ammunition.
12, 16 and 20 gauge —in standard lengths
and weights.
StCVCIIS Single Barrel Shot GItHS
Every gun rigidly tested. Order from your
Dealer.
For latest Stevens information —illustrated
catalogs, etc., communicate with
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [5
PIEPER BAYARD (SUNS
Are LOW in PRICE, but HIGH in QUALITY.
All parts inter-
changeable.
Repair parts
stocked by all
Gunsmiths, thus
ensuring correct
and cheap
replacements.
m
TO BE HAD OF ALL
STOREKEEPERS, GUN-
SMITHS & MERCHANTS.
Our Representative, Mr. W. A. COX, Box 873 G.P.0., Sydney, will send
you Bayard Booklets, post free, for the asking.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
A SATISFIED USER OF ECKERSLEY'S
AERATED WATER MACHINES
WRITES :
Mumbil, 18th August, 191 S.
PW
m,
TlgU/'
A
m
m
iSiafcai
RAILWAY HOTEL.
J. Forrest,
Prop.
“Z am more than satisfied with my Aerated
Water Machine, purchased from you some
time ago, and the Waters which it produces
are excellent. The cost of production is only
a trifle.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) JACK FORREST
No Hotelkeeper or Vendor of Aerated
Beverages can afford to be without an
Eckersley Aerated Water Machine or
Soda Fountain. We are the only manu-
facturers of these superb Machines, an
in purchasing from us, middlemen s
profits are eliminated.
ECKERSLEVS,
Canada Building, 822 George Street, SYDNEY.
Clarendon Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE-
Operation Avoided by Using
“For 23 years I suffered with an enlargement of the wrist. Three medic nM gu
pronounced it incurrable without an operation. A friend advised me: to use a
SOLUTION, which I did—only a few jars—and it has perfectly cured me. n «
best liniment I have ever used." ... „
< s «» ed > > s - R bS|Sn„,...
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists or Storekeepers, or post free for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON, 439 Bourka St., Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
If Thady O’Kane were alive he would whoop to
know that an old sub-editor of the Northern Miner
at Charters Towers (Q.) has just been elected high-
serang of the Congregational Church, in S. Aus.
North Queensland newspaper offices have a lot of
religion that they have no use for, and youn^
I letcher—Lionel B. —picked up some of it as mining
reporter and sub. Then he tackled theology, the
habit of tackling theology being in the family, and,
after filling a small N.S.W. pulpit or two, turned
(as usual) a very attentive ear to a call when it came
from a bigger tabernacle at Port Adelaide. The boss-
ship of the denomination within the State followed.
• * ♦ ♦
“Locust”: When I was a printer's devil on a
country rag the proprietary arranged for a serial
story from the rapid pen of Grosvenor Bunster, a
well-known literary guy of those days. He began
one, the impressive title of which was “It Runs in
the Blood” ! The characters were—with the excep-
tion of the harmless but necessary butlers, tenants,
farm hands, village maids, etc.—all people of
exalted rank. 1 hardly think 1 dirtied my fingers
setting up type about anyone less than a duke or a
viscount, a countess or a marchioness. After four
or five instalments the distinguished author had an
elbow-lifting accident (which apparently was the
standard disease to which literary men were exposed
in those days), and his copy did not come to hand
Dick Thatcher happened around, and he was com
missioned to keep the story going and to wind it up
decently. Of course, Dick took on the job in a revel
some spirit, and promptly changed the whole plot, in
the manner in which George Bernard Shaw has suc-
ceeded in recent years, turned all the pompous
characters of the first chapters into buffoons, and
inoculated the comic men with solemnity, married
everyone to the wrong people, and wound up with a
“tag” dragging in the title of the story, which was
considered so necessary in those days. The tag ran
in this fashion: “They are married now and happy,
and have gone to live on the beautiful hill near the
slaughter-yard. They have a tiny cat called Flossie,
and whenever a beast is killed at the slaughter-yard,
It Runs in the Blood.”
* * * *
“Chetwynd”: Why ain’t I an actress? Here am 1
making a perfect hobby of nervous breakdown. 1
have lost very valuable valuables mysteriously. 1
have even got married, lost my bulldog and my
highlv-trained ’guana, and not a word in the press
about it. Now, sir, please kindly insert a personal
paragraph (in any column but the “Wild Cat”)
stating that I have lost my ’guana. 1 enclose my
autobiography so that you can put on some trim-
mings. But be sure to mention my name as the
loser, and how fond 1 was of the ’guana and the
dog. If you, sir, should happen to have discovered
my strayed darlings, you can keep the ’guana. But
be sure to mention specially that I (full name) gave
it to you. in my autograph you will see that I have
trained ten ’guanas 1 If necessary, you may mention
this fact casually. Thanking you very much, in anti-
cipation, 1 enclose sixpence for a drink.
BOHEMICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Imbued with his art is the artist,
And facile of words, the scribe ;
And they let me into their conclaves
As a waif of the lettered tribe.
But being merely a rhymester
That hangs to the Muse’s hem,
They showed me firmly, if kindly,
I wasn’t of caste with them.
1 tinkled my lyre unnoticed ;
I sang in my wildest strain ;
But they didn’t appear to hear me—
Their diffidence gave me pain.
Then I grew aware that a penman
Was shouting against my ear ;
He was bellowing objurgations
Which nobody seemed to hear.
And I heard a decadent writer
Roaring his noxious creed ;
I didn t bother to listen
As nobody seemed to heed.
I glanced at a skilful limner
Depicting the ultra-nude;
As no one took any notice
Doubtless he thought us rude.
For some were talking of sculpture,
Or something absurd like that;
And some were making conundrums
Which fell uncommonly flat.
For no one hearkened a moment
To aught that the other said ;
Each flogged his ridiculous hobby
Until it was almost dead.
My gorge arose with their foolments.
For, vain to the last degree,
They were each so set on their foibles
That they wouldn’t listen to me!
1 tinkled my lyre superbly
(For I cling to the Muse’s hem),
And they stopped their ears with their fingers
As though I was boring them !
So I took me out to the roadstead
Where the men of the world go by,
And I sang to the motley people,
And (some of them) heard my cry.
It was thus I came to my kingdom
In the hearts of the men that know;
And one of them gave me fourpence
And begged me to cease, and go.
They did not question the metre,
They cavilled not at the rhyme,
And I felt I would set them moving
To the lilt of a livelier time;
These men of the stout yard-measure,
These traders, and men in blue,
Would lend an ear to my message
And (some of them) hear me through.
So I sang to them for an sron,
Till my thumb and my throat were sore;
But at last I, myself, grew weary.
So I’ve taken to work once more!
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Jfl
Q.E.C. (U.S.A.) Type C.V.C. Direct Current
Commutating Pole Motor.
THE GUARANTEE OF EXCELLENCE
ON GOODS (g) ELECTRICAL.
WORKS LIKE A CHARM.
Noiseless and effective, the Electric Motor is the
modern “ Open Sesame ” to industrial success.
MANY manufacturing enterprises once impracticable on account of the inflexibility of
steam power are now being operated successfully by motor drive.
There ’ s a suitable Electric Motor for every kind of work, whether it be in the Mine
ractory, Shop or on the Farm, and we can furnish it.
A/r . Ll ,! <e al * ot^ r things, quality and economy are first considerations, so that our Electric
oor \vi eventually leign supreme. Send for Bulletin No. 9915.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE. 217 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.’
Agents
ADELAIDE, S.A. : Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd,, 100 Currie Street.
BRISBANE, Q. : Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Edward Street.
PERTH, W.A. : Chas. Atkins & Co., “Magda House,” Hay Street.
EW ZEALAND i The National Electrical and Engineering Co. Ltd., Dunedin,
Auckland and Wellington.
r ntngtng jor *
v
/A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess*
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years' success. J
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Interna] and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 31- PER BOX, or 8 BOXES £l,
Post Free.
On Sale at All Druggists and Chemists throughout
the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
'TIIK Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d
2*
-X
AUSTRALIAN METAL COMPANY LIMITED
SILENT and STEADY
RUNNING.
NEAT DESIGN.
Effective Results
with Minimum
Cost of Current.
A. E. G.
ELECTRIC
FANS.
SYDNEY
40-2 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE
172=6 William Street.
ADELAIDE
129 Currie Street.
The Highest Economy in Fuel & Steam
IS ATTAINED BY USING
R-WOLF
Patent Superheated Steam
Locomobiles.
The Most Economical Motive Power for Electric Power
Stations and All Other Purposes.
High-class Compact Complete Steam Plant.
One Unit.
Easy Attendance, Greatest Durability.
Use of Any Kind of Fuel.
Tests of one of the Locomobiles illustrated gave
1.061 b. Coal 9.061 b. Steam
per B.H.P. per hour .
grass*
' -
i
'*7
-./rr
gwvmimf
£/
bents
1
GERMANY. Iron and Steel Works, Ohligs.
1 WOLF Compound Condensing Superheated Steam Locomobile, 650
B.H.P. Direct Coupled to Dynamo, and 1 WOLF Compound Condensing
Superheated Steam Locomobile, 540 8.11. P.
Australian Representatives: ________—
HAES& EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


ABBEY
SHOES
In every Abbey Shoe there is true
comfort and a quality that is pleas-
ing ; thus in Abbey Shoes you get
perfect-fitting, good-looking and
long-wearing footwear.
The illustration shows the highest-
grade Tan Willow Calf Bal., 27/6
and 30/- Also in Glace Kid,
25/-, 27/6, 30/-. In highest-
grade Box Calf, 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Send for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The
Marie
Permanent
Hair
Stain
(Registered).
BE YOUTHfUL EVER!
This well-known and reliable Permanent Stain has
given complete satisfaction to thousands of men
and women throughout Australia who have used it
on hair, moustache and beard. Not one failure.
Unaffected by surfing, tonics, washing or wearing.
Non-injurious to the most delicate hair or skin.
Impossible to go patchy. Simple to apply. Light
Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
PRICE 10/6, 6d. postage (r 2 months’ supply,).
Money returned if proved unsatisfactory. All
Toilet Requisites stocked. Send me your hairwork.
One and Only Address .'
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL,
46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hotel Australia).
No connection with any other firm trading under
the name of Van Brakkel. (Register all letters ).
Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling ?
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
your* calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact standard re-
quirements, and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy.
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free.
Shall we send you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
■yOU begin to
4 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the. Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses 1 the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
GET A RECEIPT
/?/ ... wvr7£V3
(mm
it?
\
2T
YOU were never meant to remember
*■ everything.
The NATIONAL CASH
REGISTER was and does.
It never forgets to record every transaction
of goods sold, whether for cash or credit.
The National Cash Register Co.
of Australasia Ltd.
335 Pitt Street, Sydney
343 Queen Street, Brisbane
281 Murray Street, Perth
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne
117 a Rundie Street, Adelaide
80 Collins Street, Hobart
57 Brisbane Street. Launceston.
These Tools Make Farming
Easier, and More Profitable!
This Powerful Pump
for 38/-
Without a doubt the finest value in
Pumps. It’s a Low Down, Double-
Acting Force Pump, with sin.
Cylinder, and 2in. openings for
suction and discharge.
Draws 1500 gallons
per hour, and throws
a jet 60 feet.
The latter feature has
made it popular for
country fire carts.
Complete with fittings
for hose or ironpipe,
38/-
Sowing Seed the Natural, Easy
“Iron Age” Way-
This tool opens the furrow, drops
seed, covers it, packs the soil and
marks the next row, all at the same
time. Fancy sowing by hand after
that! We have many varieties of
Seed Drills from the “New Model.”
Price,
38/=
ASK FOR
“IRON AGE'
BOOK.
farm surveying
IS NOW MADE EASY.
You guess when laying out
drains, locating sites for dams,
grading, getting angles, etc., be-
cause the expert with his expen-
sive instrument costs too much.
Don’t you? The Starrett Level-
ling Instrument, No. 46, has
been. designed to get you out of
the difficulty. Does all the above
jobs. Simple to use. Price,
46/- ; •
HEAPS OF TIME
SAVED —HEAPS
OF WOOD SAWN
Don’t work your arm
off using a crosscut.
This bench soon pays
for itself. Heavy,
Non-Shrinking Frame.
Non-Tilting Travelling
Table, Bracing to
prevent warping,
£l2/10/-, with
CORN SHELLING
TIME IS NEAR.
Machine Shelling is 10 times
faster than bv hand.
“Invincible” gives better
round results than otters.
One Hole Sheller, tol-
Two Hole, 145/-
EARTH SCOOPS
FOR EASY
EXCAVATING.
Positively the quickest and best method of
making dams, channels, drains and all earth
works. Hardened Steel Bowl, Steel Runners,
Detachable Handles. 3 cubic feet, 32/0;
5 cubic feet, 35/-; 7 cubic feet, 37/6.
THE “ BUFFALO ” IS
10 TIMES FASTER
THAN A GRINDSTONE
The handiest and best grind-
ing machine for farm or
workshop. A steady foot
pressure sends the wheel spin-
ning at 3000 revs. per
minute—just like a big power
grinder. Sharpens all tools,
without drawing temper.
Stands 4ft. tall. Made of lin.
tubing. Emery Wheel 8 x
ljin. Adjustable Tool Rest.
30 /• complete.
c
Proprietary Limited.
“ Tools for Farm & Workshop-
-554-66 8 582-88 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE. Established 55 Years.
A Sydney girl, Eileen Redmond, daughter of Red-
mond, the mining editor of Sydney Telegraph, has
begun to arrive in comic opera, and has brought with
her a fascinating personality and good voice.
She got her chance as Kissy Fitzgarter in ‘‘The
Belle of New York,” and has made good in Maoriland
with the music and lines of that innocuous Bohemi-
enne.
At Bath (Eng.), three of Australia’s old friends are
head-lining on the Palace bill —Alfred Woods, Maud
Williamson (in a morality play) and Fred Russell
(ventriloquist). A local critic says of the Woods-
Williamson playlet that “it is a wonderful dramatic
episode.” Russell, who visited Australia under
Rickards three times, is classed as “the world-
famous.”
“Circle” : I see that Andrew Higginson (the blithered-
about “Higgy” of the stage-dazzled female) has taken
over the Clare Hotel, at \\ augaratta (Vic.). This
transition from beauty actor to Bung pleases me
more than - I can say in plain print. When “Higgy”
was throwing himself about in the savage clothes of
Danilo, the petulant young mash of “The Merry
Widow,” the shrieks of his long-range admirers were
agonising. You couldn’t go out to squander a
social evening without being deafened with Higginson
rhapsodies. Now he has taken a header into the
beerish obscurity of a country pub and there will
be no more of it. At least I hope not. 1 cannot
imagine the flapper and her elder sister making the
same sort of parrot noises over an ex-publican—-
that is, supposing “Higgy” should ever attempt to
come back from the beer engine.
“Macko” of Broken Hill: I went to book seats.
Standing in the crush outside the local booking-office
was a dame with the best part of a rooster’s after-
thought in her hat. As the crowd pressed the feath-
ered female was wedged against a tall youth, who
was considerably annoyed by the persistent tickling
of his nose. Getting tired of blowing the bird’s
rudder first on one side and then on the other, he at
last, in desperation, opened his mouth and bit off
the offending plumes. And the lady pressed on
unconscious of the fact that her three-guinea lid was
reduced to Is. ll^d.
Dear Bulletin, —In his misguided anxiety to prove
that modern bellowdrama is in advance of the old-
time article, “Billy T.” is moved again to extol the
alleged artistic merits of “Within the Law',” and sug-
gests that I cannot see wherein this Yankee produc-
tion is superior to a Charles Darrell outrage. This,
of course, is the cheapest variety of sophistry. It
would be as reasonable to set up William Wa.tson
against Mrs. Hemans to prove poetry is in a
healthier condition now than it was in the early part
of the eighteenth century, when Keats, Shelley and
Byron were at work. To prove “Billy T. s rash
assertions Bayard Vei Her must be shown to compare
favorably, not with Darrell, but with Henry Arthur
Jones and Sydney Grundy. “Within the Law” cannot
possibly hold its own against “The Silver King’ and.
“The Red Lamp.” Coming down the scale, we find
that Drury Lane drama is not what it was, as wit-
ness the show's of the last two years—“ Sins of Society
and “The Marriages of Mayfair.” And when we
sound the depths and drag up a Darrell, he is liable
to appear in a rather favorable light alongside such
moderns as Mrs. Morton Powell and the distinguished
author of “The Queen of the White Slaves.” 'lrusting
I shall not be called upon further to instruct Wil-
liam” in such elementary matters of theatrical his-
tory—l am, yours thirstily, Harrison O.
H H Vincent, who made herds of friends in Sydney
some vears ago as J. C. Williamson’s general manager,
sends" from London, through The Bulletin to each herd
separateiv, individually and collectively a handshake.
He would like to personally deliver the article, but
his health is in the majority on the question, and the
majority says No. On Henry s behalf, therefore, the
Religious Editor will pass the rum bottle at the old
rendezvous on the sixth Friday in the month.
“Vie” ; Last night in my walks abroad I stumbled
on Snowy Baker’s new Melbourne Stadium. It is
an enormous, square, walled-in place of brick, witty
seating for apparently about. 40,000, in the extreme
north-west corner of the city—indeed, beyond the
citv. On the first glimpse it looks utterly out of the
wav ; but it is close to the railroad lines from Spen-
cer-street, and near by there is a siding for docking
railway carriages, with eight platforms capable of
accommodating a great mob. Besides, it doesn t
matter how much a place looks out of the way in
Melbourne. Cooper and Bailey, about 1878, went
out upon the South Melbourne flat. The local entre-
preneurs said it was madness; yet the site answered
so well that thenceforward there was a rush to it.
Chiarini, Wilson, Cole’s American Circus, Fillia,
Fitzgerald and Wirth went there, and now West s,
Spencer’s, the Skating Rink. Hippodrome Glam-
arium and the Snowden have a permanent habitation
on the flat. Then look at the forlorn Alexandra
Theatre, a shocking failure for 15 -years, but elec-
trified by Williamson as Her Majesty’s ; yet he took
it only in a hopeless kind of way, and because Mus-
grove' had mononolised the Now the
Princess’s has fallen all behind Hfer Maj.’s, and the
fashionable Williamson Theatre is to be built oppo-
site.
THE FATAL BLUE-PENCIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Age and Argus, following the lead of
the Melbourne Herald, have cut out theatrical puff-
pars ; and notices (except on Mondays and first-night
criticisms) are cut down to a line, giving the name
of the theatre, the play and the time for the curtain-
rising. The press agents are highly indignant.
Pity me, Gerald Bonehead, leading man
Of the star company of melodrams.
A reptile press has brought me under ban —
No more they paragraph our lies and shams;
The list of prime donne’s chaperons,
The lonely and misunderstood soubrette,
The “block” of the contralto’s infant sons,
The shriek of the big salary 1 get;
The pretty actor’s tale of how he played
Before the crowned heads of Bethnal Green ;
The story of Miss Fleshtint’s Russian maid,
And how “they cheered me in my dying scene” ;
The actress shooting burglars in the night
(Her father is an English clergyman),
The heavy man who street thieves puts to flight,
And all the tales of those who “also ran” —
Tales of lost diamonds, salary romances,
Yarns of the crowded house we had at Nhill;
Of how the Czar and Khedive loved our dances ;
Of Sultans climbing to our window sill;
Of how our mother with us always tours ;
Of how we long for childhood once again,
In the dealt convent on the Scottish moors ;
And how our loneliness is endless pain ;
Of how we golf, and row, and box, and shoot,
When we re in dear old Hingland, resting after
The West End season and “commands” to boot
(“Commands” which moved the King’ to tears
and laughter).
True, other advertisers are neglected,
And paragraphs on sausage find no place ;
And no one cares if drapers are rejected ;
And no one prints the plumber’s lovely face.
None print the tale of grocers’ inner yearnings.
Nor give three scareheads to a baker’s woe,
Nor praise at length the vain ambitions burning
In him who puts the currants in the dough.
But we are great! Cobblers must sole and heel;
Drapers must know the way to sell their rags •
Bakers to bake and thieves the way to steal,
And tailors how to sew the legs of “bags.”
But we are The Profession ! And our frauds,
If they but gain a loud publicity,
May long be undiscovered on the boards!
So cut not out our names, or dead are we!
N.S.W.
MARTIN LUTHER.


a
MU
ill I
DUDLEY
ACCORDIONS.
No. 1 Dudley Accordion.
x 4Jin., Mahogany-
stained Mouldings, 2 Sets
Reeds, 10 Nickel Keys and
Pallets, 2 Bass Stops, 8-fold
Double Bellows, Nickel
Corners.
Post Free, 10/-.
No. 3 Dudley Accordion.
10|in. x sfin., Black Pol-
ished Case, 3 Turned
Wooden Stops, 3 Rows
Bell Metal Reeds, 2 Nickel
Basses, Leather Handles.
Post Free, 25/-.
Postage paid anywhere
in the Commonwealth.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little ColUns-street,
MELBOURNE.
TWO DOOMS FROM tOLE’S MOO* ARCADt
MO DEL "V
E O
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE —
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHALES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
X Directions with every
/ bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 6t 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
rFIHE Best Stories written in Australia
J. appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
The “Fx & R”
WATCHES
Are the Most Extraordinary Watches of the Age.
THEY are J-plate Levers.
THEY have Brequet overcoil balance springs.
THEY have compensated and adjusted balances.
THEY have jewel ruby rollers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
THEY are specially made to stand ROUGH-RIDING
AND KNOCKING ABOUT, and go with profound
accuracy.
THEY are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order free of charge (breakages excepted) for
2 years.
With 15 jewels in oxydised case, 33/-; in solid
silver case, 45/--
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Tne Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s full-sized open-faced oxidised
steel Lever Watch, with 15 Jewels, 33/-
With 7 Jewels .. .. .. 28/-
GET BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
V
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Danks’ Ball-
bearing Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn —by using your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As easy as riding a bike down hill—nothing
to get out of order—one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting tools. Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
The House for Too/s,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Liverpool Street),
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
VJ
IMJT
I
“"tors INVM-' 0
C °® l( *NC OR MUX
*v«
’0r.,.-
,; u ck;i
mi'-'
MALTW
CHOL^.
SEEING IS BELIEVING
Get a bottle of Horlick’s Malted Milk, take it as
directed, and see the effect upon your own health.
It will speedily build you up —both in brain, brawn,
and body. A test like this will show you how good
Horlick’s is—better than any amount of talk.
Get a b o Hie
to-day. Of all
Chemists and
Stores.
A sk for Horlick's
at the Soda
Fountain.
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
y'Hi'f
wm
VA •. *'*T.Yr:-y.'\*
A
[for a fair dinkum go
L ... try the ... 4
© 0 © Q © O OQQQ
Krilschen
( Salts >
Mow sold by Chemists throughout cue 'commonwealth. I
Wholesal; importers:
H, &W. GRCAR, 237, >larenc i Street, SYDNEY I
THIS MEDICI/NE CHEST
SHOULD BE Ifl YOOR MOCIE
For the Bush Home, where'
'the medical man may be miles
away, a Medicine Chest is often
the means of saving life. It certainly
does away with calling in a doctor for
minor ailments. We pack a chest con-
taining a remedy for all ordinary illnesses
and accidents of life, prepared by a legally
qualified chemist according to the directions
of a leading physician. THERE ARE 2S REME-
DIES ;—Liniments and Washes for Sprains and
Bruises: Ointments for external application:
Med icines and Powders for internal taking,
ith full supply of Lints. Plasters, Bandages
etc. Mind there is no quackery about this
Chest, any open minded doctor to whom
you show it will approve of it. Packed
carefully & sent to any address in the,
lth for Carriage Paid
25/-
EREE OEEER- The
Home Medical Book
sent Post Free.
THE HOME MEDICINE SUPPLY
RETRIES BIGHT BRISBA.ME
UK Australian Magazine—THE LOMK
HAND. Tlie National Monthly. Price. 6tl.
ft
Ho Mother \\.
request.
»
#
I
V
m
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
15-17 M
iStreet, Sydney
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD-
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
F.R.S.; and F. J. GILLEN, Special
Magistrate and Sub-Protector of
Aborigines for South Australia. With
colored and other Illustrations and
Maps. In 2 vols. Bvo. 21s. net.
(255.)
Westminster Gazette. —“In the two admir-
ably produced volumes we have one of the most
interesting and best equipped works of travel
of our time.”
WITH THE RUSSIAN PILGRIMS
TO JERUSALEM. By STEPHEN
GRAHAM, Author of “A Tramp’s
Sketches.” With 38 Illustrations
from Photographs by the Author, and
a Map. Bvo. 7s. 6d. net. (95.)
The Daily Mail. —“ This book will add
greatly to his already great reputation. It is
a pleasure to praise such work. Here he has
given us an extraordinarily beautiful and in-
teresting account of an extraordinarily inter-
esting achievement.”
RUDYARD KIPLING.
SONGS FROM ROOKS. By RUD-
YARD KIPLING. Uniform with
Poetical Works. Crown Bvo. 6s.
Pocket Edition. F’cap. Bvo. Cloth,
4s. 6d. net. (ss. 6d.) Limp Lea-
ther, ss. net. (65.) Edition de
Luxe (limited to 1000 copies), Bvo,
10s. 6d. net. (12s. 6d.)
JUST SO STORIES. By RUDYARD
KIPLING. With Illustrations by
the Author, and 12 additional Illus-
trations in color by Joseph M. Glee-
son. 4to. 6s. net. (7s. 6d.)
WARWICK GOBLE’S NEW COLOR
BOOK.
THE FAIRY BOOK. The best popu-
lar Fairy Stories, selected and ren-
dered anew by the Author of “John
Halifax, Gentleman.” With 32 Illus-
trations in Color by Warwick Goble.
Crown 4to. 15s. net. (18s.)
FROM POLE TO POLE. A book
for young people. By Dr. SVEN
HEDIN, Author of “Trans-Hima-
laya : Discoveries and Adventures in
Tibet,” etc. With Illustrations and
Maps. Extra crown Bvo. 7s. 6d.
net. (95.)
The Athenaeum.— -“The style is graphic,
and the interest seldom flags. Gordon, Liv-
ingstone and Stanley all figure in the book,
which concludes with a vivid account of Nan-
sen’s Polar Expedition.”
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
(Lately known as Macmillan’s Colonial Library)
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
631 and 632
Scott’s Last Expedition.
Being; the Journals of Captain R. F.
SCOTT, C.V.0., R.N.,
Together with the Reports of the other
Journeys and the Scientific Work
undertaken during the Expedition.
Edited by LEONARD HUXLEY,
with the assistance of the surviving
'Members of the Expedition. With a
-Preface by Sir CLEMENTS R.
MARKHAM, K.C.8., F.R.S. In 2
vols. With Illustrations and Maps.
635 A CHANGED MAN, THE
Waiting Supper, and other Tales,
concluding with The Romantic Ad-
ventures of a Milkmaid. By
THOMAS HARDY.
633 BENDISH: A Study in Prodi-
gality. By MAURICE HEWLETT.
Daily Chronicle.— “ This novel is one of
Mr. Hewlett’s finest. Whether we look at its
deft hammeistrokes of characterisation, at the
tender truth of its pictures of love and friend-
ship, at its mastery of English thought, or
its restrained eloquence, the result is the
same; one must confess that English fiction is
as great now as ever it was. One swells with
pride to .think that modern men can write
so well.”
618 THE PASSIONATE FRIENDS.
By H. G. WELLS. -i
Tidies. —“Mr. Wells’s iove-scshes are
worthy 'of t)ie novelist at his best.... Mary, >
with hey self-reliant brain, her passionate
heart, her cult of freedom, is as convincing
as she is charming.”
630 HERE ARE LADIES. By
JAMES STEPHENS. Author of
“The Crock of Gold,” etc. Mainly
a collection of character sketches
abounding with rich Irish humor.
565 THE CUSTOM OF THE
COUNTRY. By EDITH WHAR-
TON, Author of “The Reef,” etc.
634 THE CORYSTON FAMILY.
By Mrs. HUMPHRY WARD, Au-
thor of “Robert Elsmere,” etc.
636 BEHIND THE SCENES IN
THE SCHOOLROOM: Being the
Experiences of a Young Governess.
By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY,
Author of “Misunderstood.”
610 VAN CLEEVE. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Shipping.
_ I
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
Wireless installed.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN* NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 lis.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P- and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 Us.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited. '
OR I ENT LINE
AUSTRALIA—EN GLAN D.
uus Steamers. ...v , ~ —-■
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries. . .
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies,
Minimum
Deposit.
ON
FRIDAY
EVENING
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
take a portion of your pay to the local
Branch of the Government Savings Bank.
Even 1/- will open an account and put you
on the road to saving.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
118 BRANCHES and OVER 500
' AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
31 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
This Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
11 Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. H. Davies, Secretary
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Head Office: Brisbane.
GENERAL MANAGER: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian flank of Commerce
11 LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £25,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq.; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal toWns of.' the
world. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863. j
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under,
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . • • £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up . • • • • • 413,418 0 0
Reserve .. .. .. •• 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5 .
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial (Dutual fife
1 ASSURANCE society limited
* FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
410 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
lb Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., - Chairman.
The Hon, Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
me non, Rosg MILLER Resident Secretary.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: I„ £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
*The largest' and Finest Steamer trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless 1 elegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S-S- CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless. *Third-Class only.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt's Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge (leeks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. Ac., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).•'
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 8
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 12
Leaves Sydney Nov. 15
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 19
Leaves Sydney Nov. 22
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 8
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 15
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Three Weeks’ Holiday*
in the South Seas.
The BURNS PHILP Steamer “MAKAMBO” (fitted with Electric Light and
Refrigerator), leaving Sydney on the 31st December, 1913, for VIDA (New
Hebrides), via LORD HOWE AND NORFOLK ISLANDS, and returning
again on the 22nd January, provides the opportunity of a restful and pleasant
CRUISE in the SOUTHERN PACIFIC, with a home on. the Steamer the
whole time.
ROUND TRIP FARE (DECK CABIN), £l9/5/-; ORDINARY, £l7/10/-
BURNS, PHILP & CO LTD., 11 Bridge Street, Sydney
bank of new south
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS :>
£3,253,540
£2,250,000
£3,253,540
£8,757,080
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt,, M.L.C.,
President. _ '■
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.O.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richaid Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacEaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. l-'osbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.’
AUDITORS: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq.. Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office-George St., Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., EC.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London, Agents
and Correspondents throughout the World. .
a p.jhle remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, l-oreign places DIRECT, loreum Bills negotiated
lenllected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE TIIHOUGIIOUT THE
\VOI'I D euers 01 u j RUSSELL FRENCH. General V
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
£1,750,000 0 0
1,630,000 0 0
1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
Capital Paid-Up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
DIRECTORS:
DeirChairman.
Hon H. Moses, MX.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London. Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
jjank of Heui Z eaiantf -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares ( £1
up
Uncalled Capital
000,000) Paid-
. £1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
Uncalled Capital • • V ex n 4.ifi , 117
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,1 it
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain and Ireland, and other places.
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up • • •• •• "
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock) .. 76,500.
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
npilE Best Stories written in Australia
JL appear in THE Lone Hand each month.
Price Gd
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA .. | Nov. 15 I Jan. 10 | Mar. 7 j May 2
SONOMA .. .. j Dec. 13 i Feb. 7 | April 4 | May 30
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z ,S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificeht Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Zaw Points
Inventors
*. *
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform ' you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all" cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney.
Citizens' Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY >
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle I
to all North-Western Ports. J
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (7785
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
November 22 and
December 20.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
T.S.S. WARILDA (7713
tons'), Saturday, Nov. 15,
MAIiLOO, Saturday,
November 32.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. VUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. |
The Vancouver Route
♦
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN II.M,
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-IIED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST and second class.
SAILINGS ;
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cab'ns-de-
luxe en suice, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted witli Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM Sill!' COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON AND LIVERPOOL.
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
CAPTAIN HOWELL.
NOVEMBER 22, 1913
NOVEMBER 27, 1913
DECEMBER 4, 1913
DECEMBER 10, 1913
Saloon. Third-Class.
Fares to London: £4O. £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Fares from Brisbane: Saloon, £2 Return;
• Steerage: £l/1/- extra. 1
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-
Class passengers. Well lighted and ventilated cabins
and spacious decks. Third-Class passengers supplied
with fresh provisions from cool chamber throughout
the voyage. Electric light throughout.
Return and round-trip tickets issued via Cape and
(or) Suez Canal. Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy.
Successful vaccination certificates and signed sur-
veillance forms or exemption certificates must be pre-
sented before passengers from Sydney or Brisbane
can be booked.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information,
apply —
BIRT & CO., LTD., Svdnev arid Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ llimaroa,” "Wimmera.”
“Riverina,” “Victoria
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH ti ALL NEW ZEALAND I’UlilS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND "ESI
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
™e
united INSUR
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £5OO OOO-
effected on all d ‘s s ®®V i
Buildings, Stocks, F
tuve, kc.Mentsulsoas^
mi Wool Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Fre.gh*.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
r„e "V„,U4- u “ n \Z‘s r T"i SSy
Fire insurances
Marine Risks . •
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub m a htue
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healec on eart h.
quicker than with any other °l nt ™ el JLite for a
Everyone says so who has used it. "
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
j. WILKI MSON. Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley; Brisb


Hotels, &c.
i
IiSUSM
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13 - per day.
AND UPWARDS.
Tlie Hotel Is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
11A N DSO MM DR A WINC - ROOM.
COSY CORN MR and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gent.’s
flertex
Cellular
Combinations.
SINGLET and
TRUNK DRAWERS.
While 6/6 Frea
The most comfort-
able form of
Underwear, and,
being of Aertex
Cellular, the
most healthy.
Made also in other
plain and fancy
Cottons, Lisle
Threads, Woollens,
and Silks.
When ordering
state height and
size of chest.
AGENTS IN
N.S.W. —
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
(Next door to Farmer's.)
Williams’ Holder Top
RFOf?ATIONS
V#
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman •
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing i t*s
convenience and Your chemist will be tlad
economy. to show it to you.
fe^LDOES
Skill cockroaches!
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Soil, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. R. Smith, Townsville, „
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, ~
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie, ~
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, „
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, „
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ~
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Agents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
THE Australian Magazine—THE L.ONE
H4KI), Xhe National Monthly. Price, 6d.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
Bank of HustraUa
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
New South Wales— Sydney. Federal Capital —Canberra. Victoria —Melbourne.
Queensland —Brisbane. Rockhampton, and Townsville. South Australia —Adelaide.
Western Australia— Perth. Tasmania— Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., London,
cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated. or
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
„ SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.
Branches are open at 3 Mbore Street. Sydney: 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George’s Terrace,
Perth; Elizabeth Street. Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital); and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
T> rom y am - to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
*sranch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on Friday, 7 to 9 p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth,
riwcc t-At Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy anti Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
i er limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial developmeat, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Rrisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, IV.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
g r ?
Ml
mMFWFFIi«
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
io You Long for a Full Moustache?
If you want a
tache you can
it, and no
about it, either.
mous-
have
doubt
CAPILLARINE.
will grow you a full, strong, handsome moustache in a remarkably
quick time. It gets right to the roots of the hair —which MUST grow
in consequence of its great nourishment.
Price 10/6 Jar, Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night,
shapes the moustache. 2/6, 3/6, S/6, Post Free.
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
v \ ! ! / /
m
Lime -Frai t Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
THE “CINCH”
Hornless Zonophone.
SPECIFICATION. —The latest model as shown, possesses many improve-
ments.’ It is fitted with the famous goose-neck tapered tone arm; cabinet
is constructed of beautifully figured oak, in natural color, of beautiful
design and of magnificent workmanship ; it has a 10-inch turntable, which
any size record, the internal horn and sounding grille giving a
full and beautiful reproduction.
This instrument is suitable for all outdoor purposes, and can be taken
without any difficulty aboard Launches, X* Oil fV
Yachts, and to Ficnics. X rICC
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
Sole Concessionaires for
The International Zonophone Co. Ltd.,
Hoffnung’s Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney
ARE YOU
DEAF?
If you are deaf or going deaf, you will be glad to
hear of a simple and scientific device which restores
hearing, no matter how old you are. No mystery or
secrecy about it ; we describe it fully, and explain
just how it acts. You use spectacles as sight magni-
fiers, and in the same way you use this sound magni-
fier to hear better. Unlike spectacles, the Wilson
Common-sense Ear-Drums are invisible and comfort-
able. No one can tell you are wearing them. They
rest the ear nerves by taking the strain off them —-
the strain of trying to hear indistinct sounds. What
a relief to have done with that tiring strain. Being
made of the softest Para rubber they cannot be felt,
even when the head rests on a pillow. For the same
reason, a blow on the side of the head will not hurt
the ear. They protect the tender inner parts of the
ear, that are so sensitive, from cold winds, dust, sud-
den and piercing sounds.
So that you may clearly understand how the Sound
Magnifiers restore hearing, we give an illustration of
one as it lies in the ear. You will notice that the
Sound Magnifier is shaped like a trumpet, and so con-
veys even the faintest sounds right to the natural
drum. Being of the softest rubber, it cannot hurt
fe>£.
the ear. It fits the ori-
fice of the ear with pre-
cision and comfort. The
division that runs across
the mouth is to allow the
removal and insertion of
the Ear-Drum, and to
brace it.
The shape of the Wilson
Ear-Drum has been chosen
after years of experience as
the best adapt-
ed to carry the
faintest sound.
Of course, if
you have lost
the he a r ing-
nerve com-
pletely, or were
born deaf, we
cannot pretend
to cure you. Only a miracle could
do that, in spite of some of the
absurd claims made to-day. But
if you can hear the faintest sound,
do not despair. You will never
regret trying the Wilson Ear-
Drums. We have letters to show
you from deaf people in Australia
and New Zealand, who have been
cured, and you can be cured, too. You may wear
the Ear-Drums day and night, and take them out
whenever you wish. Children can wear them (we
have special sizes for children from six to twelve).
Even a child can insert and remove them without
the least danger.
The price is £1 (the fee for a doctor’s single
visit). This includes a pair of drums (they are only
sold in pairs), a fine nickel remover, and also an
inserter. After the first pair is bought you may pur-
chase a single drum at any time for Bs., but the
pair you get at first will last quite two years. Do
not ask for a trial pair. We do not send them out
on trial, and so they are never secondhand. Use the
Order Form below, and the Outfit will be sent you
at once, with the fullest instructions. Don’t delay,
but have the comfort of good hearing as soon as you
can.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-sense Ear-Drums, an Inserter and a
Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If a
Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must register it.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, VV.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all pans of Che world.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 388 Sussex Street, Sydney.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


DO YOU RIDE?
THIS TELLS OF A
COMFORTABLE RIDING BOOT.
THE
Wallaby Emperor
RIDING BOOT
has elastic sides and single soles. It is
designed for comfort —is as soft as silk
and as tough as wire to the wear.
Made from
Queensland
Wallaby Hide.
BLACK, 10/0
Postage 1/- extra.
TAN, 17/0
Please state size.
LIMITED
BRISBANE.
JUST SPLENDID.
“Two years ago I was thoroughly run down from
biliousness and constipation,’’ writes Nurse Oarr, 28
George Street, Camperdown, N.S.W. “One day I
saw Chamberlain’s Tablets advertised, and as 1 knew
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was so good, decided
to give the tablets a trial. I found them just splen-
did, for they soon completely cured me, and naturally
recommend them to my patients.’’* ■
.*• 1
Missing: Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) rnder-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next'of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
"■ALSDALE. —Wanted to know the where-
abouts of JAMES ELSDALE, eldest
son of Alexander Hugh and Ann Elsdale, who
formerly resided at Dalby, Q. Will hear of
something to his advantage by applying to
QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES LIMITED.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
RTIIUR McCORMICK”
Engineer, last heard of at Sailors
Home, Bond Street, Newcastle, N.S.VU:
Mother wishes letter ; or tidings ; to 17 I me
Street, Middlesbro, England. .y,,;.
IN the Matter of MARTIN REYNOLDS.
late of Spring Hill, Brisbane, Stone-
mason, who died on the Twenty-fifth clay of
June, 1887.
John Joseph Reynolds, a son of the
abovenamed deceased, last heard of at
the Tweed about fourteen years ago, is
requested to communicate with the t orator
of Intestate Estates, Brisbane, on or before
the Thirty-first day of January, 1M •
otherwise his death will be presumed ana
the estate of his late father, the said Marti
Reynolds, will be distributed amongst t e
next-of-kin legally entitled thereto.
F. W. MOLE,
Deputy Curator of Intestate Estates.
Brisbane, 27th October, 1913.
TN the Estate of CARL ANTON WH®:
J otherwise called Carl Anders M >ig, ,
Jansen, late of Ashley, Clinton, * n
Provincial District of Hawke s Bay, farmer,
deceased.
Information is required as to the where
abouts of the widow of the abovenanie
deceased, known as Ann Mug. ° r "
Jansen (or her children, ffigitimate
otherwise). She is a Swede, and
the deceased some 23 years ■ ago an ‘ f
known to be in some part of Australia D
17 years ago, and was reported to have a
a child then living. She also beg
of on the Gumfields north of A 1 ckl f^te
She or her children, according to ti a
of her death (if dead) are entl^. itl t he
considerable sum of money no
Public Trust Office. The Public' Tiu «
will be pleased to receive any informal
that may appear to relate to her.
J. W. MACDONALD.
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office'
Wellington.
New Zealand'
IN
BANANA LAND
The Sugar Cane Price Board Bill, which
Rankin introduced to the Bananaland As-
sembly the other day. will put new heart
into the industry, if it passes. It follows
naturally on the increase in wages that the
farm-hands have got. The present base-
price of cane is 13s. a ton, and the wage of
the cane-cutter is Is. an hour. The figures
can’t be reconciled, if the cane cocky is to
make a do of it. The grower knows it —has,
indeed, known it for quite a long time—-but
has always' possessed the vertebra of a
mollusc, and the C.S.R. and kindred spirits
in the milling game have tramped him in
the mud of his own canefield. The Bill which
has come to his rescue provides for compul-
sory conferences between farmer and miller,
and the miller won’t have the thick end of
the stick, unless the chairman happens to
be the sort of person he shouldn’t be. Ran-
kin has behind him 23 members pledged to
support the interests of the cocky, whether
he be cow cocky, mixed cocky or sugar
cocky. They all have sufficient intellect to
vote, and with the help of the party led by
Ryan they may force the Bill through. And,
after all, it shouldn’t nepd much forcing’
It merely provides that a fair price shall be
fixed on the evidence forthcoming; and if
the farmers ask for a price that isn’t fair
because the millers can’t pay it, then they
won’t get it. If the millers object, the only
conclusion will be that they don’t want a
price fixed in the light of reason ; and with
that sort of objection no sane Legislature
can have any sympathy.
About a year ago Queensland, urged by
frenzied individuals who howled about “the
degradation of our womanhood,” and didn’t
want to know about the degradation of our
manhood and the tainting of unborn child-
hood, abandoned the compulsory examination
of Flossie. The “reforms” didn’t include
provision for the extermination of Floss;
it merely put her behind a screen, so to
speak, and let her become a more frightful
menace than she could ever have been when
she was obliged to face the doctors periodi-
cally. The Government is realising now
what a pit of corruption it was induced to
dig. Consequently a proclamation has been
issued announcing that the system of exami-
nation will be resumed; moreover, cases of
venereal disease must be notified, and dis-
eased women will be isolated in a special
hospit: 1 ward. But there won’t be much to
be cheerful about until all the big towns, at
least, are made examination areas, and the
notification of all venereal cases, for all
sexes and at all places, made compulsory.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
LIŢLE WILLIE: “Oh , mat Is that Danie?"
Winton is well-named. In the last 31
months the sunburnt little hamlet has drawn
£25,000 in prize money from Tattersall’s
s;weeps. The first public statue to go up
there will be one of the late George Adams.
Home Secretary Appel—whose kindliness
and straightforwardness even Oppositionists
admit —was moved to indignation the other
day when a deputation told him that neither
the Brisbane Children’s Hospital nor the big
General possessed an isolation ward for
measles and whooping cough, and that,
though the General- took such cases occasion-
ally, the Children’s wouldn’t unless there
were “complications”—such as pneumonia.
One infant had died, the deputation said,
through its sick mother having been obliged
to carry it about in her arms, and there
were other cases of much the same sort.
Appel bubbled over with indignation at the
statement that youngsters with plain
measles had to wait till complications came,
and remariied that if the Children’s Hos-
pital couldn’t provide for such cases it would
be a question whether the big bequest from
Mount Morgan Hall could be subsidised.
How it would improve the situation to shut
off the hospital’s supply of money Appel
didn’t explain. It might be a fair thing
to stipulate for the treatment which Appel
says is necessary ; but to stop supplies, when
presumably there are not supplies enough as
it is, looks a good deal like giving the erring
hospital the excuse to err more than ever.
The Wandering.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wandered last night from the • land we
make pelf in,
To pick up the fairies, with Puck for a
guide;
We went down a way that was winding and
elfin,
To buttercup meadows that nodded in
pride ;
The pixies came out in their finest apparel,
A butterfly wing in each hand for a fan.
And musical fays came along with a carol
To soften the heart of a Terrible Man.
They pelted me down with the sweetest of
posies,
They beat me to earth and commanded me
kneel;
They fastened me then with their fetters of
roses,
And round me they ran in a magical reel.
They summoned Queen Mab, and she came
in her splendor;
She gazed on the captive and told him to
rise—
Oh ! Lucky the man whom she calls to sur-
render,
And prisons eternally there as a prize !
We banqueted then at a mushroomy table,
On bluebells of honey and goblets of dew ;
A tiny bird sang like the bird in the fable —
“A little nest up on a branch in the blue!”
The elves were in fettle and jested un-
wearily,
Tripping for ever on frolicsome toe ;
The trumpeters blew on their trumpets so
cheerily,
“Laugh and be glad, little folk, when we
blow !”
The dance was begun by a fairy of mettle.
Who spun like a top on her heel for an
hour;
An acrobat tiny, a-poise on a petal,
Gave wonderful dives in the deep of a
flower;
The soul of the scene was a petulant pixie.
With quicksilver filling his veins for his
blood,
And ever for mischief, this mannikin tricksy.
He laughed when he shouldn’t, and kissed
when he could.
And round them for ever, and over and under
The merriment rose and the merriment
died ;
The crickets they piped till they blew them
asunder,
And Oberon laughed at the joke till he
cried;
Louder and louder, till over the airy land,
Rang out the roll of the resonant drum—
Gone were the fairy folk, gone was the fairy
land ;
Music and dancers were parted and dumb.
Shall I go questioning: “What have ye done
for us.
Sages so prosy, and weary and gray?
What in return for our loss have ye won for
us?
Where is your fairy band? Nay, brother,
nay!
Give us but eyes, we shall see the land bound-
ing us,
Peopled with Little Folk, Elfin and Fay,
Here in the joy of our children surrounding
us,
Here on our Earth, with her darlings at
play.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 1, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
On Thursday afternoon the Governor and
Lady Macgregor, with the Vision and the
embodiment of the fashion and beauty of
the hamlet as a background, presented the
drums and fifes that Pearl-king Clark has
donated to the 7th battalion of cadets. The
martial event took place at Victoria Bar-
racks, and, after his Ex. and Colonel Lee
had addressed the battalion, tea was poured
by Mrs. Bruche, and the eternal bun went
the old rounds.
The races to-day were spoilt by some
rather heavy rain. All the females skedad-
dled to the stand when the first drops fell,
but after a few minutes two skirted braves
risked their best hats in order to see which
quadruped was likely to bring home the
dividend. One protected a lengthy ostrich-
feathered glorification with a purple silk
sunshade. The other, having no gamp,
calmly betook her millinery bouquet into the
thick of the downpour. There were plenty
more headpieces where that one came from.
Sir William and Lady Macgregor, with
the Foxton aide, arrived on the course about
three o’clock. Dr. Hopkins, Charlie Morris
and Judge Lukin and his wife were drafted
into the vice-regal pen for the afternoon.
Some very glad rags were removed into
the grandstand when the rain began. One
lot was the property of Mrs. Blume, and
another covered Mrs. Isaac Moore. Mrs.
Ralph Clifton looked smart in black and
white, and Mrs. Jack Thomson was as usual
one of the best-dressed women on the lawn.
Two f§tes claimed the attention of the
Macgregor this week. One was the Prohibi-
tion party’s fair at the Temperance Hall,
and the other was at the Kennedy Terrace
Church. The most inspiring feature of the
former was the picture of a fat man strid-
ing along with a megaphone in one hand,
the other being engaged with two or three
chains, on which wriggled several men,
women and children. The title of this stir-
ring work of art was “A Personally Con-
ducted Tour to Hell.” Printed programmes
also were distributed, and in every avail-
able corner were little rhymes and quota-
tions dealing with the currrrrrrsed drink.
When the youthful Rechabites became noisy
while his Ex. was speaking, Chadband
rushed up and said in a horrified under-
tone, “One would think you were in a public
house.” It was a cheerful show, bursting
with brotherly love and bubbling over with
Christian tolerance.
Lockhart Spence, back by the Otranto,
has left his popular lady behind in Fogland.
She won’t return to Sunland until the new
year is glancing round the corner. The
Biscoes, who also came by the Orient liner,
seem to have revelled chiefly in tennis, and
the he-partner waxes enthusiastic over
Maurice McLoughlin’s play.
Arthur Hobbs, a globe-trotting Brisbane-
ite, just returned from England, noted in
John Bull’s island great activity in aero-
nautics, but nearly all the machines used
were of French manufacture. Hobbs also
noted the “primitive agriculture” of the Cold
Land as compared with the Continent, while
Mrs. Hobbs was delighted to find that every
garden in Italy boasted a gum-tree, known
as the “tree of health,” and planted as a
protection against malaria. In the eyes of
Europe the gum is much more characteristic
of Australia than the wattle.
The Otranto bore away a full cargo of
Queenslanders. Mrs. Gerard Gore and
daughter May have sailed to India; Miss
Newton is bound to England for two years ;
and a party of Downs people hurried , „
board at the last minute.
B . r j ld y’ Under-Sec. for Public Work,
and his wife, who have been away since W
March came back to Brisbane this week
-they haven t been all over the world hni
seem to have done a heap of sightseeing
Daughter Mabel and her motor-car f one £
her father’s presents) have been left in
land with relatives.
Litße Una Shanahan (her stage name is
Bna Collins) was married to actor Ham
Trimmer m Melbourne on Monday last
After they have seen the Cup they are going
to tour Australia with a new company Mrs
dimmer is a Brisbane girl, but her'pon*
larity knows no bounds, so to speak.
On Thursday afternoon the Albion P ar k
croquet enthusiasts tea-ed and fed the mem-
bers of the other city clubs. Jolly Mrs
Trotter scooped up two prizes, one for guess’
mg beans in a bottle and the other f or
prowess with a croquet club. There was n»
Prize for the sandwiches and devilled
almonds, which was unfair.
The haggis and the wee bit pipies are
smoking cheerily at the Centennial Hall as
I write. The Scotties are celebrating
Halloween. Dowkin for apples and other
amusements will fill up the time till 10
o’clock, and then the lassies will repair to
some lone spot, armed with an apple and a
mirror, and see what the glass shows them
This old custom is merely an excuse for the
menfolk to have another look in the glass
themselves. Only it isn’t the same kind* of
glass.
The committee of the Children’s Hospital
and several other charitably inclined per-
sons are working hard to arrange a benefit
matinee at His Majesty’s. Percy St. John
and Dan Carroll are lending their aid,
Mayor Doggett and his Mayoress are adding
their municipal weight, and the Vision is
likely to arrange something in the nature of
tableaux. All the picture shows and vaude-
ville artists in the city have promised to
roll the old charity along, and the J.C.W.
firm is being politely approached re lending
the theatre for noddings. Dan Carroll sug-
gests that a sort of Rose Fete would be a
good adjunct, and it is probable that the
wretched citizen who has already been
rushed with Hospital Saturday tags. Ambu-
lance ditto and dead wattle will again be
pursued, this time with stale roses at a shil-
ling apiece.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Georgetown recently art-unioned 4 pig for
the benefit of the district hospital. So suc-
cessful was the gamble that the swine was
raffled five times over, bringing in a net
£BOO to the infirmary. It was then photo-
graphed, and if the Hospital Committee has
any sense of decency it will hang up the
likeness in the institution along with the
portraits of other eminent benefactors.
Yet another result of the foolishness of
crawling up a crooked creek to make a port.
The Kyarra, snorting with indignation at
being brought so far up, and riled at the
impertinence of an ant-like tug which offered
help round the corners, made a swipe at
the insect and sent it to the bottom. Then,
getting sulky at the curses heaped on it, it
left the river, climbed up a sandbank, and for
half an hour defied all the efforts of every-
body to coax it down.


£
I^URVIBILITY
a Mm
i
rv
Ssil
#
%rm
m.
Mi
.
\
y
%
?y
ft
*o
If##?
IP
ia
rj
si*
.
■Vi
I -
m
.
i
m
r-
m
m£.
• ->S
%
»
-
MMi
He
H
SUS
$5BB
i
i Q%
■
■fl
mm
-
r«
'
ssb
jiM
K •
■pH yKKBmm aIBI
w : 'S
■ .
:^m
. :
- ■/
M 0
<co<TmeM'ML C&6 Puppei? £° 4ll States


Teething
troubles
—with the accompanying
inflammation, restlessness,
irritability, broken sleep,
and swelling of the gums—
can be overcome. SCOTT’S
Emulsion gives the extra
strength the child needs,
and aids the easy develop-
ment of strong, firm, white
teeth.
“My son, suffering with whooping
cough and teething, was wretchedly
thin and weak. After taking SCOTT’S
the whooping cough is quite cured, he
is cutting his teeth without any trouble
and looks quite strong and robust.” —
Mrs. Lilliebridge, 5, Wells Street,
Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W. 22/5/12
Mark the cure —then insist on genuine
scorn
Emulsion
A
(L
TRADE
MARK
A-pollmans
Annual tilling at the Apollinaris Spring
Year 1901 ■ - - 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 1911 - - - 37,000,000 Bottles
“ THE QUEEN OF TABLE WATERS'
ANTINEURASTHIN
NERVE AND BRAIN FQQQ, TABLETS are the
scientific result of the research work of the world’s
greatest authorities and ( specialists. They build up
the nervous system by a process of natural nutrition,
and the benefit gained is, lasting and permanent.
as N,ERVE FOOD gives wonder-
ful results In physical apd mental overstrain and ex-
haustion, and on aqQcmnt of its beneficial effect upon
THE BLOOD is invaluable in cases, of Anaemia, Rheu-
matism, etc. Antineurasthin shows rerparhabls
effect upon THE PROCESS OF NUTRITION, and
marked and immediate benefit in, complaints arising-
from weak digestion, dyspepsia and, malnutrition,
A FREE TRIAL.
will be sent on receipt of 2d, in stamps to pay post-
age by the wholesale distributor, H. A. Goddard, No.
3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Bris-
bane; or Branches: 194 Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; 9-15 Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen
Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw's. Buildings, Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Auckland.
Serial No. 810. Guaranteed under the Pure
Foods Act of New South Wales by H. A. Goddard,
Sydney, to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure
Lecithin. No. 810.*
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2Ain. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions. POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemiati.
.HQTf
:r
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
3
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street.
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
Hunyadi Janos
The prime recommendation of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water is that it far surpasses manufactured
aperients as a remedy for Constipation, Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Hemorrhoids, Torpid Liver, etc. It is bottled
at the springs, just as Nature creates it, without the addition
of any other constituent.
All chemists sell Hunyadi Janos. Get a bottle to-day.
Bs
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
Mi
ML
ML
£3~t
49^
41
UCi
WU
oc/
0
e*9s
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
M
&
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
M
ML
.■■:
<T3^S
ML
ML
E
&Ci
\JCi
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
Ml
ML
Ml
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
CL
ML
ML
ML
3
ML
ML
Ml
$
ML
ML
ML
<77;
ML
ML
ML
ziv+r
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
---Tj.vo-y
WM4
9
ML
ML
ML
ML
I
ML
ML
ML
ML
ML
'ITT?
err
ML
ML
Ml
Mi
ML
(jmy-mm
TOP-NOTCH
of Scotch.
eoraelV
CJhisky
THE
D
ISTILLERS
G
OMPANY
JIMTTED
Larprst Vftitsky DistilUn m theVSbHd
c*pi*al employed over! 3j000.000
EDINBURGH . SCOTLAND
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act a»
Executors, Trustoes, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Gost of Estate Adniinistrati on Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFIC I ENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
j Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, .'SYDNEY.
Li
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
A Better Razor, The Pl\im,” 10)6
You know what a smooth, soft, gliding share'.a head hairdresser gives?
Well, that, is iust what you enn give yoursej f every time you shave
with the famous “PLUM.” It cuts the stfflest stubble without leaving
any soreness. Never “drags” or “pulls.” We guarantee to keep it in
good order for two years, free of change.
ALL LOST FREE, \
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set 21/*
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splendid quality 15/6
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome pwesent .• „ 30/*
Plum Razor Strop J .... 10/0 and 7/6
Other Good Kinds, thoroughlv reliable from 3/6
Plum Strop Dressing makes keener blades tube l/*
Stick of Shaving Soap that lathers freely ~ „ -L 1/-
RazorB Ground and Set with care l/*
Safety Razors, handy and efficient ........ from 5/6
C. & A. Moustache Trainer, shapes; the mousta Sim, "worn at night—-
Send for our Illustrated Price List. 2/6, 3/0, 5/0
<654 GEORGF. STREET, SYDN®**
ESTABLISHES 30 YEARS,
CRAIG & AITKEN,
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Mallee Prospect: This isn’t worth while,
but it strikes us that the lady could do something
worth while if she tried.... A. Lloyd: Much obliged,
but The Bulletin wants original jests, and not
reprints. .. .J. J. A. Lyndbrook: (1) Don’t know it.
(2) Now in the press. .... .Kunn: Regret to dis-
believe the yarn that a direct descendant of W.
Shakspeare is in the undertakery business in Aus-
tralia. The last direct descendant of Shaks. was
his grand-daughter Elizabeth, Lady Barnard, who
died in 1670. As the founder of a family William
was a rank failure... .Subscriber: (1) Dunno. (2)
Ditto. .. .Yannathera: Apparently your letter has
been delayed two centuries in the post. The
enclosed story was exactly that age on Tuesday....
W. Barry: B is right; when a centesimal year (1800,
1900, etc.) isn t divisible by 400 without remainder,
it isn’t a leap year. .. . J.W.G.: It hasp t got a punch.
... .W. H. McD.: All this clewing and .belaying and
so forth isn’t of much literary value, by itself.
You have no story to tell. .. .C.W.E.: Old gag, isn’t
it? It’s a long way to the point, anyhow. . . . W.N.C.:
That sort of thing is trying enough when it is roared
by two comedians. On paper it is unbearable....
Chas C. C. i There’s a story there, but you have
buried it in words. Try some pars, and be just as
brief as you can....E.G.: “Resignation” confused
and unoriginal....K.: Swear off verse.. . .Gerald
B.: Verses undistinguished, Story too gruesome....
Chas G.: Conventional, immature work, but he evi-
dently has the knack of versifying. .. .R.H.: Off the
Inky Way!.... .Comet: Looks like an explosion in
the inkpot....G.N.M.: Two quite unnecessary poems.
.... Bert R.: Says nothing new.... Emu: Same
trouble.... Carton: Not enough snap in it as it
stands. Story is there, but it needs telling....
Ebron G.: You’re a great spendthrift with paper....
John R. (Q.) : Declaration of Independence received.
Glad you feel cheerful.... Bairnsdale: Might amuse
some elderly maiden lady... .Syd C.: Both feeble... .
Glad Idler: “Father” isn’t the sort of story we
want. Have a look at the second sentence (the one
marked with two blue crosses), and weep for your sins.
.... D.L.T.S.: Material for a story, but you haven’t
supplied the story... . R.W.T.: Thin little verselet. .. .
Dion: They all fail gracefully. Grateful for legible
MS. .. . J.L.lf.: Noble striving poem without any
name or address condemned. .. .A.L.8.: Story un-
suitable for B. .. .T.P.O. (Q.) : “Back to the Downs”
is dreary, and every moan in it has been moaned
before.... L.P.L.: Interest not general enough....
A.R.: The drawing is beyond criticism ; and did you
write the verse or merely steal it ?. .. . Bergamot:
It won’t do. If ;vou can’t send us bullion, at least
send us concentrates. We empty our little bin only
once a week, and it isn’t big enough to accommo-
date crude ore. Eliminate the mullock —and, so far
as The B. is concerned, every unessential word is
mullock.
The ostrich and the sheep, were debated
recently in the Parliament, and
of course a Freetflqdei; got off the gag that
Australia couldn*! produce feathers to equal
the foreign-grown varieties, and that Mrs.
Australia would scorn to wear her country’s
plumes. South Africa exports £3,500,000
wor ( th of feathers every year, and probably
quts several thousands’ worth on its own
Ijead. A heap of good Australian gilt must
go towards making the export figures so im-
pressive. If the Commonwealth could only
buy the stuffing of its wife’s hat from itself',,
instead of sending the cash elsewhere, the
cost of living might go down with a bump.
The cost of living is also largely the cost of
dressing, and man is as much a hat-winner
as he is a bread-winner.
“C.E.’s” note on a vast scheme: —
Cabled that President Shaughnessy, of the Cana-
dian Pacific Railroad, has pronounced in, favor of the
gradual electrification of the 2906 miles- of line that
stretches from Montreal to Vancouver,. Groves, Merz’s
new right-hand man in Melbourne, says it will be
done. There is incalculable water-power in the
Rockies, as in the Nevadas, which furnish San Fran-
cisco with power carried] over 200' miles. Niagara,
supplyipg. Toronto, andi Schwanigan, supplying Mont-
real, wflfi alsq, enter, ipto the Pacific Railway scheme,
w.ifip the, of Quebec. Little alteration
of permanent, way will be needed, and the present
rolling stock will do. The Pennsylvania Railroad is
already being electrified to Pittsburg. The Cana-
dian electrification will begin with the Rockies. Other
vast improvements are proposed to allow of swifter
and more economical freight-haulage. The vice-
president of the railway, who returned last April
from China, reported that an enormous market might
be opened there for Canadian wheat and flour. The
Chinese won’t, he says, eat rice if they can get wheaten
stuff —which is good news, too, for Australia. But
back of the Canadian enterprise I suspect there is
something that isn’t mentioned—the prospect of keen
competition by ships taking the new Panama route
from east to western States, and vice versa.
Douglas Sladen, late of Australia, one of
the seven worst poets anywhere, has been
telling John Bull how to solve his industrial
problems. His proposal is to arm all “free”
laborers, and break strikes by force. He
would establish clubs for “free” laborers
where they could smoke and drink, and view
picture shows, and have rifle practice at
model targets. Furthermore, drilling sheds
must be set up, and military officers provided
to organise, train and drill non-unionists.
It is an excellent programme—if Sladen
wants to see the “free” laborer wiped out; for
the unionists would certainly arm and drill
too. and when the attempt was made to break
strikes by force, the strikers would feel
called upon to break the strike-breakers.
Sladen, by the way, does not advise that Fat
be armed, and drilled, and trained to do his
own dirty work. Fat is force, but only by
proxy.
The commercial ties that bind us to Bull
are weakening. In 1895, out of every
£lO,OOO worth of goods which the Common-
wealth sold abroad, Bull took £7065 worth;
other British possessions £885; and foreign
countfies £2050. In 1912 the figures were:
Bull, ; other British possessions,
£2135; foreign countries, £3BBB. In 1895,
out of every £lO.OOO worth of foreign goods
which we bought abroad, Bull supplied
£7162; other British possessions, £1146;
and foreign countries, £1692. In 1912 the
figures were: Bull, £5876; other British pos-
sessions, £1226; foreign countries, £2898.
We still support Bull with something like
the old-time energy, but Bull has grown
rather tired of supporting us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND
CORRESPONDENTS.
Syd D.: Pity there isn’t a market for.
nightmares. .. .George A.: The jest is old and crud>@
and the drawing is wooden... . S.F.: The man in, the
bar is a formless horror. The fat woman looks as
if she had been moulded out of mud. ; Gags impos-
sible. .. .Leila B.: Drawing muddy and the two re-
marks not brilliant. .. .P. 11.: Careful but uninterest-
ing drawing of two men. Gag dull,


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
UA C MONEY Tn I PIM n On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
I V Lt INU or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
: and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills' of any of the Australian States or New
"Zealand. MPAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairfnan ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox. Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick. M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and tire Nobility.
Bankers:
I.ondon County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, I.ondon.
YY7 K liave every confidence in our al)ilities to please our Customers, hence our remarkable
” offer of Six Months' Free Approval. Examine the articles you majf choose at your
own convenience, in your own homeland if you are not delighted and fully satisfied with the
ihigh quality and exceptional value, return them to us within six months and we will
immediately return your deposit.
May we solicit a trial orderP Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS. —Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned os within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” sajis—
“o>AVJs A Co., of *26 Denmark Dili, Imvc alined
omnsi (tenable reputation for supplying unrede<tmod
gjkxig-efl at very moderate prices We gather from
their latest bargain List that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which lias just had enough wear to test
Its value nt about one-third the original cost pilSce.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest m ihers iu the world.”
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
‘‘There cannot exist lunch doubt a»to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article whfcn’such advertisers
are willing to send the goods advertise*! on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messrs. )»AVJS <v Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DAVIS «V Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
14/6
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
£ibl- Military Binocular (by I.efaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy ;
10 achromatic lenses; 50 miles range; shows
bullet mark at I,OOJ-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain ; sacrifice, 14/6.
Powerful £4/4/- Binocular Field
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10 lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
field of view; adjusted to the h i s r ’'o<t i degree
of scientific accuracy; in sad tl , made sling
case ; tremendous bargain ; sacrtlice, £l/1/-
Powerful £B/8/- Double Draw Bino-
__ . _ culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Luttiiere), as supplied to H.R.11. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick focus, brill.ant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration .power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£l/17/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10
years’ warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London); exact timekeeper; 10
years’ warranty; also Dug Watch Guard, elegant
design, same qtutli y ; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
(Worth £4/4/-). Real l!ut sian Furs.
_ _ _ Riel), dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; GraYtville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and head.; large
Granny Muff .matching ; together, 15/6-
(Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
back and on shoulders; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tai's hanging; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £l/2/6.
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
18-ct. Gold (stamped) idled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, J2/6.
Lady’s £4/4/- 18 ct. Solid Gold, hall-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet llalf-hoop Bing, claw setting, large
faultless s’ones; sacrilice, 18/6.
Lady’s £l3/13/- • 5-Stone Diamond
_ and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality, latest
West End cut and finish, never worn : breast
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32^-in.; £l/6/6.
21/-
37/6
12/6
12/6
15/6
226
12/6
70-
26/6
26/6
LadjTs £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 'Vfeirs’ warranty; £1/6/6.
Magnificent Gent’s £13/13/- Single
Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
iine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultless
and new condition ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
Gent’s magnificent £11/11/- Solid
Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
l.ever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month; 20 years’ warranty; ,6 months'
trial: great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15/-
Lady’s magnificent £11/11/- Diamond
and SapphircClusterRing,18 ct.Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire ,ot
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 ariicles, everything required ; beautiful
garments; the perfection of mother’s personal
work ; never worn ; great sacrifice, £i/9/6.
Valuable Violin (worth £10/10/-),
perfect condition, labelled Stradivari us
Cremona, 1721 ; ricli mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; £1/12/6.
(Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
(Worth £1/15/-). Bight superfine quality
Chemises, Knickers, anil Petticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
Spoons and Forks. (£10/10/- Set).
A1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
j>attern ; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, £1/19/6; Half-Set, £1.
Fashionable Curb Chain Padlock
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
(Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
attached, set Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled ; in vglvet case ; bargain ; sacrifice, 6/9.
70/-
2S/6
55/-
59 6
29/6
32/6
13/6
12/9
39/6
26/6
6/9
DAVIS & CO
( D " L )
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
LOCAL'
mrn
X®/
Hi ,
Ul'-
IS,
PATRIOTISM
Your
Then have
at smoking
E.
The Australian Tobacco.
T
'Wk.
js
\\\\uUSi
— laimiiii
17W
What Guns Are Offeree 3
At Your Dealer’s?
FOR a horse or a dog, you of course go to. the
dealer who is known to stock thoroughbreds.
You have confidence in his judgment.
So, too, in sporting goods equipment, you may rely
on that dealer who stocks Remington-UMC rifles and
shotguns. That, in a measure, is proof of his being
well-informed.
Remington-UMC repeating rifles and shotguns are the
last word in breech-loading arms construction. The clean,
trim, thoroughbred lines that make them the sportsmen's first
choice are the result of designing which, among other things,
eliminates the protruding hammer and closes the breech.
You should be informed on these and
other important , points in modern gun-making.
Your name and address on a postcard will
will bring an explanatory booklet.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co.
Australian Agent, D. D. Bryant, P. O. Box 686, Melbourne
New York - ' 1 London
* *
"
(Ideal)
FouritainPeri
Lost in London, lost again in Quebec, and
after 18 years’ use as efficient as when quite
new. Read this striking testimonial:
“You will be interested to know that the Waterman’s
Ideal Fountain Fen purchased from you in 1894 has been
in constant, unimpaired service ever since. To-day it
writes as well as on the first day of use, 18 years ago. It
does not leak, scratch, or faff to mark on the first contact
with paper, as is often the case with other makes.
“ I could write an interesting story of how I lost it, once
in the busy streets of London, twice in Quebec snow-
storms, once again in a huge wood-pile of a saw-mill,
always to find it again ; but I must desist. I am happy
to give you this .unsolicited testimonial to the continued
value of your fountain pen.
“ Yours sincerely, (Rev.) John H. Wright.”
Id 4 types —Regular and Self-Filling, 12'6 and upwards ;
Safety and Pump-Filling, 15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd., Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
(Australia—3so, George St., Sydney.)
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
ARE PREPARED TO PURCHASE ORES, CONCENTRATES AND
FURNACE PRODUCTS containing Gold and Copper at most favor-
able rates.
ALSO TO INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Develop-
ing, Financing, or Purchasing same.
Address : MR. B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAND.
LET US TALK OF EMPIRE!
The SILENT EMPIRE BIOSCOPE is UNBEATABLE.
This statement is easily borne out by the
numerous delighted reports we receive: from users.
Being British made with all-Steel Sprockets,
possessing Maltese Cross in Oil Bath, improved
gate and masking device, the Empire is the
Bioscope of To-day.
Showmen!
Our faith in our Machine is so strong that we
will instal a model in your show, and make a
comparison with the machine you are at present,
using, and we will stand or fall by the result;
a
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We issue a Special Booklet dealing .with these Machines. SEND FOR ONE.
WE ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE KELVIN GENERATING SETS.
“EVERYBODY IS USING THEM.”
JERDANS LTD.,
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Amusements.
|4 JIA.IKSTVS THEATRE, SYI)NK\
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
QUINLAN GRAND OPERA.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER «. TALES OP HOFFMANN
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7 .. TRISTAN & ISOLDE
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER S LOUISE
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10 .. THE MASTERSINGERS
PLANS AT EALING’S.
A DEIO‘III THEA T R E. SYDNEY.
** Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
A WONDERFUL SUCCESS. '
EVERY EVENING.
Entirely New Dramatisation of Marcus Clarke’s World-
famed Novel of Early Settlement in Australia,
FOR THE TERM OF HIS
NA T URAL LIFE.
POPULAR Plili 'ES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
JP AEA C K II I 1 THIU SYDN E Y.
* Direction ALLEN DOONE.
EVERY EVENING.
BARRV OR BALLYMOORR.
ALLEN DOONE as TOM BARRY
PRICES: 4/-, 2/6, \j. Early Doors, Gallery and Stalls,
6d. extra.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
|\| ATKIN AL AMPHITHEATRE. SYDNEY.
1 * Managing Director: BEN .1. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CALLEN & EMERY, in Miniature Musical Comedy.
THE TWO STORYS, A Revel ition in Ragtime.
MATTHEWS & MACK, American Travesty Stars.
BRYANT & BRYANT, Axe, Sword & Baton Manipulators.
LEONARD NELSON, Plain Comedian.
GEORGE MURPHY, Talking Juggler.
JENNINGS & GERALD, Comedy Sketch Artists.
PRICES: 8/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre
Q EACIAIUUM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST'S PICTURES, LTD.
‘RUST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
§ PENCE It’S LYC E V .M, SYDN E Y.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF
CROSS VERSUS CRESCENT.
MONDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 10.
A Production that will be Remembered.
THE PRISONER OF ZEN DA.
PRICES: 2/,- 1/0, 1/., 6d. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
|> I C K A K DS’ T 1 V OL 1 T II EA T It E.
Governing Director .. HUGH D. McINTOSH.
FLYNN & McLAUGHLIN, Novelty Dancers.
LASKEY’S HOBOES, the Side-splitting Six.
DIAMOND & BEATRICE, Talented Instrumentalists.
JACK PRINCE, Ragtime Violinist.
THE MULLERS, Hoop Spinners Extraordinary.
MARTYNNE, an Electiical Surprise.
COOKE & ROTHERTS, Comedy & Dancing Artists.
GEORGE WHITEHEAD. ECLAIR GAZETTE.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
OI*K H A HOU S E, MELItO U K N E.
Persona] Direction Mr. HUGH D. McINTOSH
REYNOLDS & DONEGAN, World’s Greatest Skaters.
ALBERTO and CO. in a Bunch of Magical Nonsense
LILLIE LANGTRY, the Electric Spark.
BONNIE LEONARD, the Girl with a Million Smiles.
MISS WILLETTE WHITAKER,
Assisted by F. WILBUR HILL.
JOE FANTON’S ATHLETES.
FRANK FOX, the Debonair Comedian.
VAUDE and VERNE, Premier Patterologists.
Plan at Allan’s. WF“PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
THU KING’S THEATRE. M KMtOI KNE.
* Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the
AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
In the Exciting Musical Revel,
A DAY AT. THU RACKS.
POPULAR PRICES.
PLANS AT ALLAN’S
D KIN CESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
■ Sole Proprietor: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 8.
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents a Grand Revival of th
American Mining Drama,
AT CRIPPLE CREEK.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co
H
KB MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE NEW COMIC OPERA CO.,
Presenting a cast entirely new to Melbourne, in the
Favorite of all Comic Operas,
TH H ARCADIANS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
it EAI K E KOY A L. MELBOURNE*
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 8.
LEWIS WALLER, together with Miss MADGE
riTHERADGF,. and a Complete Company, in
A BUTTERFLY ON THE WHEEL.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls 6/-
Stalls. 4/-, Gallery, 2/-, Plan at Allan’s.
JOHN McCORMACK CONCERTS.
FAREW li Id. M IiUBOU ItN Ji
CONCERTS.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6; SATURDAY, Bth;
TUESDAY, 11th; and FAREWELL MATINEE,
THURSDAY, 13th.
IN THE AUDITORIUM.
FAREWELL SYDNEY SEASON.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15; MONDAY 17th •
WEDNESDAY, 19th : THURSDAY, 20th •’ in the
TOWN HALL.
FAREWELL ADELAIDE SEASON.
NOVEMBER 26 and 27.
Direction:
J, and N. TAIT.
Amusements.
A.JESTfC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Amalgamated Pictures Ltd.
A Pictorial Version of the Famous Plav.
A FIIOM MAKS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Plan at Allan’s. Theatre 'Phone: Central 4558.
PICTORIAL CONCERTS EVERY SUNDAY
EVENING AT 8.
E» I .J O l THEATRE. MEL B O U R N E.
Lessees: Messrs. Brennan and Fuller.
Direction: Harry Corson Clarke.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
HARRY CORSON CLARKE
and his American Comedy Co., including
miss Margaret dale owen.
In the Sparkling' Comedv,
w HAT DID TO M K INS DO?
Popular Prices: 35., 25.. Is. Plan at Pianola.
01. Y M P I A. O J, Y M P I A.
I. Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
8 FEN C EIFS FICT UIFES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
IA/E S T’S PAL A C E MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S P 1 CT UIIES THE BEST
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—-6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Buy EDISON
Wax Records Now
These reductions are available at all
Edison dealers in Australia and New
Zealand, but if you write us direct we
will forward full information and
complete lists of Edison Records and
Phonographs.
Reduced Price details are:—
Edison Wax Standard Records, (2-
minute) :
Australia.. Reduced from 1/3 to 1/-
N.Z. .. Reduced from 1/9 to 1/3
Edison Wax Amberol Records (4-
minute) :
Australia.. Reduced from 2/- to 1/6
N.Z. . . Reduced from 2/6 to 2/-
Edison Wax Amberol Concert Re-
cords :
Australia. . Reduced from 3/6 to 2/6
N.Z. . . Reduced from 4/6 to 3/6
Edison Wax Standard Grand Opera
Records:
Australia.. Reduced from 3/- to 2/-
N.Z. . . Reduced from 4/6 to 2/6
Edison Wax Amberol Grand Opera
Records (all types) :
Australia
Reduced from 4/6 'l
Reduced from 6/6
Reduced from 8/6 I
to 8/6
N.Z. .. Reduced from 6/-
Reduced from 8/6
Reduced from 10/6
to 4/6
THOMAS A. hOISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
Amusements.
gIKCH & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (-excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
ltepresentatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Heap Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
VISIT
THE
Chamber of Manufactures’
Great
All-Australian
Exhibition
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
OPEN AFTERNOONS & EVENINGS.
All Previous Exhibitions Eclipsed.
6d. ADMITS.
F. L. VV. ASHBY, Manager.
Government Notices.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, 16th October, 19 1 3.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Tenders for Brake Vans (6 wheel) com-
plete and Brake Van Underframes
(6 wheel).
TENDERS addressed to the Secretary,
Department of Home Affairs, Mel-
bourne, will be received up to*'ll a.m. on
Tuesday, 18th November, 1913, for the
manufacture in Australia, supply and de-
livery of:—
Brake Vans (6 'wheel) Complete and
Brake Van Underframes (6 wheel).
Specifications, Plans, etc., will be on view
on and after 21st October, 1913, at the fol-
lowing offices: —
Commonwealth Railways, 84 William
Street, Melbourne; Commonwealth Works
Director, Customs House, Sydney; and
Commonwealth Works Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
The charge for each copy of Specification
will be fl Is., and for each Plan 55., which
must be paid before the document can be
issued.
Tenders are to be endorsed. “Tenders for
Brake Vans and Brake Van Underframes,”
and are to be accompanied by the deposit
mentioned in the form of tender.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for Home Affairs.
SYDNEY EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION, 1913.
RESULT OF DRAWING.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above Art
Union, and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner, and with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
J. NOONAN, “Worker.” CHARLES THACKERAY", “Sun.”
E. CLEGG, ‘ Evening News.” ROBT. HAMILTON, Sergeant.
JOHN HEPHER, M.L.C. ALD. W. O’CONNOR
tt „ Tl X e P ,? IZES wiJl be P aid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, at 10 a.m., at the Trades
Hall, Goulburn Street, Sydney. •
Trades Hall, Sydney, Nov. 1, 1913. JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary.
Government Notices.
Proposed Government Buildings,
Ottawa, Canada.
A RCHITECTS are invited to submit,sketch design,
in a preliminary competition for the ererok,
[ of Departmental and Courts Buildings. 1,011
From the designs submitted in this? prelimin
competition, six will be chosen by the Assessors t ‘
authors of which will i.e invited to submit mor
matured designs in a final competition, for whin
the five unsuccessful competitors shall each receive
an honorarium of Three Thousand Onii.,/
($3,000.00).
The author of the design placed first hv the
Assessors will be entrusted with the work, which the
Government intends carrying out at once. e
The competition is limited to British Subiee's
practising in the British Empire
The Government has appointed Mr. T. E. Collentt
Mr. J. H. G. Russell and Mr. .). O. Marchand as
Assessors to act in its behalf.
The designs in the first competition must he
delivered in Ottawa (carriage paid) not later than
12 o’clock noon, 2nd April, 1914, addressed to the
undersigned.
Conditions for both competitions may be
had on application to the undersigned, and at
the office of the High Commissioner for Canada l;
Victoria Street, London, England; and the offices
of Mr. D. H. Ross, Canadian Trade Commissioner'
Melbourne; and Mr. W. A. Beddoe, Canadian Trade
Commissioner, Auckland, N.Z.
By order,
R. C. DESROCIIERS,
Secretary.
Department of Public Works,
Ottawa, Canada,
18th August. 1913.
Department of Home Affairs,
Melbourne, October 22, 1913.
KALGOORLIE TO PORT AUGUSTA
RAILWAY.
Analytical and Biological Chemist.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
. sons competent to fill the position of
Analytical and Biological Chemist in connec-
tion with the Western Australian Powellised
Sleener Contract. The position will be under
the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway
Act 1911, which provides that the appoint-
ment will be during the pleasure of the Min-
ister, and may be for any period not extend-
ing six months beyond the date on which the
line shall be declared open for traffic.
Salary. £5OO per annum.
Applicants must be thoroughly capable of
conducting analyses of all classes of materi-
als, and must have a knowledge of timber
and its diseases.
The successful applicant will have to re-
side in Western Australia, and will be imme-
diately responsible to the Engineer-in-Chief
for Commonwealth Railways.
Annlications, accompanied by copies of
diplomas and testimonials, and addressed to
the Secretary, Department of Home Affairs.
Melbourne, will be received until noon on
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25. 1933.
The age of the applicant must be stated.
W. 11. KELLY,
for Minister of State for Home Affairs.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 25th October, 1913.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for the Supply of Sennet Hats,
Soluble Navy Chocolate, Flannel,
Condensed Milk.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
the conditions of tendering, until
twelve noon on the following dates, for the
services specified hereunder :
Period of Contract.
SENNET HATS—
Until June 30, 1915
SOLUBLE NAVY
CHOCOLATE—
Until June 30, 1915
FLANNEL—
Until Dec. 31, 1914
CONDENSED MILK—
Until June 30. 1915
Tenders
Close.
Nov. 12, 1913
Nov. 14, 1913
Nov. 17, 1913
Nov. 19. 1913
Specifications, Tender Forms, etc., maybe
obtained at the office of the Director of av .'
Contracts, Navy Office. Melbourne, and at
the Naval Staff Office, Sydney. Brisbane.
Largs Bav (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
” on top left-hand corner of the
envelope, and addressed (if hv post, P re '
naid) to the Director of Navy Contracts.
Navy Office, Melbourne, or to the Directoi
of Naw Contracts, care District sava
Officer, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A., •
Fremantle or Hobart, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
Tenders are to be in all cases on 11 e
printed form, which can be obtained asabo'
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
Business Announcements. .
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., withi “ _
Copying book, 'iou sunn , ,
sert your Letter pape ( ■
illustrated) then write, a
the act of writing P rod “®sJ
• perfect letter and a P .
copy in the book. There is no sign of you
taken a copy; no perforated edge. . jp
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters s
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/»-V r - ,
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectivdy,
post free, cash with order. Special Damt doub|p
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- v- •> , , g a „.
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the »Y
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, i
stamped, addressed envelope sent , u piiND
S. B ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER^^_—
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harry J-
Weston “WEEKLY WORRIER >Tpw ,.
of six, posted free, 6d. BtJiXE
paper Co.. 214 George Street, Sydne.
LETTERS COPIED


PURIFY YOUR
COMPLEXION
it
f /sty's 0 J
*'x
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment. Their
use tends to prevent pore clog-
ging, pimples, blackheads, red-
ness, roughness and other un-
wholesome conditions of the skin.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co„
Sydney, N. S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
AN INTERESTING
experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
°f youth, or younger years.
fir. B. ALLEN’S (u.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAJN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
mr Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
PF*“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
or country should miss.
Tiii
w
iPii ;I
Hi
Mather 5 Platt
High Lift
Turbine Pump
and
Electric Motor
The Pumps of High Efficiency
and Low First Cost
The fact that MATHER & PLATT Pomps are the outcome of 38 years
of pump-building experience is a point that can be considered well by the
buyer of pumping machinery.
If these Pumps were not right—you would know it —their Makers would
knoAV it—after 38 years.
Mather Platt Hig'h
Lift Turbine Pumps
have stood the test.
Engineers prefer them, because they give a regular flow and because of
their freedom from water hammer.
There is no necessity for air vessels, and the motion being rotary there is
no shock due to reciprocating parts ; for the same reason these pumps are
particularly suitable for driving by electric motor.
Are not these advantages at least worth looking into? It will pay you to
get FULL details. Write for Booklet and full particulars 'NOW.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
535 Kent Street, SYDNEY
480 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LATEST VICTORY
GRAND PRIZE
BKUS. 1 ELS
EXHIBITION, 1910
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
have a guarantee if they will see
HORROCKSES' name on Selvedge that they
are getting the very beat that the Old Country
Produces.
Decline ail Substitutes
So'd by a I Fi st-Class Drapers and Storekeepers,
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/1J» 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
'(’hWrrff*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
elf ectu a 11 y
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The “S\tan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage: with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience : the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
rOWNTPEN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorgeSt., Sydney
I
A Trial Will
Convince You
that Pebeco Tooth Paste is different from, and better than,
ordinary dentifrices. Are you sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeco for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Panama Canal is in a shaky region, and twice
already the American engineers have had to examine
that permanent and reproductive work to make sure
it wasn’t cracked or otherwise damaged. The Suez
sand ditch, which has been such a profitable invest-
ment for the British Government, leads a flat, peace-
ful life, and returns large dividends with commend-
able regularity ; but the Panama “water bridge”
threatens to have a jumpy existence.
“Vagabond” (from an English shipyard) : Even
while the papers are printing the usual glowing
accounts of the 18,000-ton Ceramic, and before she
has had time to grow one respectable-sized barnacle,
there washes round something more solid than the
rumor of a new 20,000-ton liner for Australia. Pro-
bably before the last rivet is hammered home the
drawings will be made for a 25,000-tonner, and that
will be chased off the slips by one of 30,000 tons.
This is the day of big ships, and there are good and
plenty reasons for ’em. It has been conclusively
proved that they are more economical than smail
ones. Only the other day the fact was clearly de-
monstrated by experts that 11,000 tons deadweight
can be carried for 20 per cent, more than 6000 tons.
In the face of that, what can you expect but big-
ger ships ? But perhaps there is one thing more we
may expect, or at least hope, and that is that if
we Australians can’t get our old ports made deep
enough, we may use some of the new ’uns that are
deep and ready made.
“Three Stripes” : The epidemic of shoplifting which
Sydney’s stipendiaries despair of putting down would
be considerably reduced if firms increased the num-
ber of their vigilance hands, and, instead of hiding
them away behind peepholes or at the back of bales
of chiffon, decked them in some sort of uniform and
brought them to the front. Most of the “lifting” is
the work of impulse, and the impulse carries all
before it, because no official seems looking. One
visible orderly would be worth a dozen that are
hidden.
The resumption and rebuilding of the Sydney Rocks
has been so badly managed that a number of Chinese
and Hindus have been permitted to occupy houses
or tenements, while former white residents have
been forced out into more or less distant suburbs.
Last week the uproar thereby caused reached the
Treasury, whereupon notice was promptly given to the
aliens to quit. The tinted supplanters are mostly
hawkers, and can live anywhere, whereas the whites
are chiefly employed about the wharves, so the
Ministerial decision is a good one, and would have
been better still if it had been come to earlier.
“C.C.” The old gaol at Berrima (N.S.W.), once
notorious for its “solitary treatment,” will soon be
put to more prosaic use. A Sydney man is installing
machinery in portion of the building, and hopes to
turn Brer Rabbit into (1) Compressed soup ; (2) an
embrocation for rheumatism and burns; (3) a very
strong glue; (4) a poultry food; (5) gelatine; (6
and 7) two varieties of manures; (8) skins; (9)
tails for export to Germany, where they will be
used in toy-making; (TO) profits; (IT) more profits.
Meantime the local cocky runs his thick fingers
through his thin hair, and wonders vaguely what
they’ll be up to next.
“Ahaswer”: One trust has been wiped off the sur-
face of Australia, and the way of it may be useful in
the treatment of others. A dozen years ago, pro-
bably two million school slates were sold annually
in Australia. Then some enterprising business men
cornered the market. At once the twopenny slate
went to sixpence, the threepenny to eightpence, and
the big sixpenny selection or allotment to a shilling.
The Trust made money fat. But just then the Edu-
cation authorities discovered that the use of slates
was unhygienic. Orders went out that slates were
to be abolished, and children from the infant classes
were to be taught to use pen or pencil and paper.
To-day, in Victoria, and probably it is the same in
the other States, youngsters hardly know what a
slate is. It’s doubtful if there are 5000 in the whole
of this State. And a gang of sore-headed kid rob-
bers are cursing interference with Private Enterprise.
Certainly the slate is unhygienic if used in the old
way. I remember a pleasant old-fashioned school-
master of very bygone days—the kind with the faded
tail coat and the soiled, frayed cuffs —expectorating
on a slate and then cleaning it with his shiny elbow
preparatory to laying down the foundations cf a
sum. The whole school expectorated on its slate,
and the girls cleaned off the finished sum with a skirt
or an apron.
* * * *
“Mil”: Pearl-shell, tortoise-shell, trepang and
pearl fishing brought the Commonwealth £433,441
in 1911, and in the four years ending 1911 the value
was close on two millions. Yet the North isn't
scratched; there is scarcely a trader in the Gulf,
and the 80,000 square miles on the Barrier Reef is
as it was when Cook struck it in the Endeavor. The
Gulf of Carpentaria was worked for a period ante-
dating Tasman and Dampier, by Malays who came
down from Macassar on the north-west monsoon and
returned on the sou’-east. In later years the quan-
tity of trepang they declared certainly didn’t repre-
sent their total catch; vet they paid duty on an
average of £BOOO a year. Four years ago the Common-
wealth warned off the aliens, as they were making the
aboriginal do all the work for them, and in payment
debauched him with spirits, horrible diseases and
opium. The Binghi is not permanently out of work,
however, as a co. styled The Torres Syndicate, Ltd.,
was formed the other day and has begun business
with a lugger and a small steamer. Trepang, which
is a small one of the co.’s objectives, is worth from
£45 to £lBO a ton, being bought principally by
China. From it is made the most potent soup on
earth —“the electric soup,” as they call it in
Shanghai
WHEN THE BAILIFFS ARE IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Japanese nation argues that the next big loan
will place China in the bailiff’s hands.
—Cheerful cable news-item.
In olden days when nations brave
Fell upon evil days, they hurled
The fighting men in one huge wave
Against the overwhelming world.
They burned their ships, they sank their hoards,
Their children to the flames they cast,
They turned their wealth to spears and swords
And perished fighting to the last.
But Change runs ceaseless with the suns:
The modern State, at ruin’s marge,
Flies to its armory for guns
And finds—the Bailiff’s Man in charge.
That worthy bloke, with fingers greased,
Points to the empty racks, to show
The posted bill: “ These weapons seized
For moneys owing. —lIvEY MO.”
Then the defenceless horde, in woe
(Amid more solvent nations’ hoots),
Crawls cringing to the conquering foe
And kisses its collective boots
A feat most bitter to the mouth
When Uncle’s client-nations fall.
There is a People of the South
May heed the writing on the wall.
VICTORIA.
PAWNBROKER


GUNS of Quality
and Stability.
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from 7ilb. to 7£lb. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut stock. £££ fOo
DELIVERED, ob® OCT .
■
: Gs
=s;;
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt. 30in. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proot, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7ilb. ;of 16-gauge, about 6|lb.; 0% jm 0 0%. 0% a
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED, J2Sm O Ct»
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
W-.u'UJitt* 5
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
"The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—l2-gauge, about 71b.; 16-gauge, about 6£lb. Delivered, £3jls]*
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE, £4.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
The BEST HOUSE for all SHOOTING REQUISITES,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches:
City, Suburbs & Newcastle.
PUMPS WATER MY AND NICHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
(1) Plays, Recitations.
(2) Magical Goods.
(3) Useful Books.
(4) Building Books.
(5) Mechanical and
Engineering Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Athletic Books.
(11) Wigs, Beards,
Grease Paints,
Masks.
East Method op Learning French, German,
Italian, Spanish, 1/7 each language; Speeches and
Toasts for all occasions, 1/1 ; Every Man His Own
Carpenter, 1/1; Bernard Macfadden’s Building of
Vital Power, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Superb Virility of
Manhood, 5/4 ; Macfadden’s Sweethearts for Lives,
5/4; Amateur Conjuring Book, easy tricks, illus-
trated, 7d.; Boxing and Self-Defence, 1/2; Book
of Love Letters, 1/-; Hypnotism, Mesmerism and
Clairvoyance, 1/1 ; Horse Doctor, 1/1 ; What Young
People Should Know, Confidential Talks, 1/1 ; Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book of Nature, the only
genuine and complete edition, 3/6; New 1912
edition, enlarged, 32 extra plates, illustrating
female anatomy, handsome cloth cover, 5/-; New
Tricks with Cards, 1/-; House Painting, Paper-
hanging, Whitewashing, etc., 1/4 ; 3000 Priceless
Secrets, 1/8; Irish Jokes and Witty Sayings, 9d. ;
Complete Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen,
1/-; Dancing Without an Instructor, 1/-; Lovers’
Guide to Courtship and Marriage, 1/-
I) m-AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
MASKS
For Fancy Dress
Balls, Skating
Carnivals, Pro-
cessions, etc.
Large Variety.
Write for List.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
2] FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog's Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shelters, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merkik
England, 6d. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all tiik Rational Press Reprints
(Send lor List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Jovs of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
W indow Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. M kchanics’
Workshop Handylook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Kook, 2/-.
Adventures op a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortunk-Tflltng by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The York, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions wmi Cards, ilhis., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post fiee, Is. Maria Moxk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life
10s Cd. Aust. Miners’Guide (i.imple tests lor minerals),
2s 6d. Mahomet’s Foptcnk Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How ro Bscovu Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, i)d. Will Powkp. (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Bx>i; of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle's Fh*ema«gnry, 3s 6d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is C.i. History of the Pod (Flagellations
and toe FKl'c’.Wnts), scaice, lis. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
tord), 9d. The Art of Jur-Jnsc, .9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Briiain for the
British, Cd. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for ail Sports, Is 3d. Dinrasbs of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is Gd. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Swkbis, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
<s
m
B
n
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH. “WB
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Ss.cr.kts and llow to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working tor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, GAS-FrrriNo, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated. Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowt River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Rkckonkr
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easjt, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
BUSHRANGERS, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s fid.
Sklf Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Oabinkt Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s fid each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don't be fooled into paying’ more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OK ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT RY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage,
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho,genum<ji
Is. Odd Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, ts o .
Aristotle, 3/(1. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, comp >
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of ■
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. od.
History Court ok England, Is 3d post. to ‘ ,
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, i - ■
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key t
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \"ST Books
DicPdnary, Sd posted. Tokology, ™ P
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read •
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ckevassk s Advice to
Wife, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budgikt b -
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d P°« ,
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at H, „ „
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers an.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipes H -
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is I’°*** .
Recitations and Readings, Is 3,.. Nervous- -
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Wbbstkrs La -
ABRIDGED DICTIONARY, 1700 pages, 1000 11 lllS., 4
bound, my price, Ins post pa:d ('vhv pa 3 Dm .
guineas). Bootmakisg and Repairing, 1 -l. RgAt
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moorss ■ »> c]oth
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 P P™-
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoi
Is post. 200 Old-Tim k Songs (wordsand us
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age or Reason, y y
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 10
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


“MAN IS AS OLD
AS HIS STOMACH.”
This Persian Epigram is the Real Gauge of a Man’s Life
Persians were a very sagacious people, noted, among other things, for their
deep thinking on life and the things which make up life.
The above epigram shows the wisdom of their thought.
When a man’s stomach is able to furnish new material to the system as fast or
aster than the natural decay of man requires, then such a man lives his fullest and
his best.
When, through wrong living or disease, a man’s stomach begins
o tax the other organs and takes from the blood strength which it
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health.
cannot give back in nourishment taken from
food, then begins the death of man, and he
decays fast. The stomach is strong, splendidly
strong, and can stand an untold amount of
abuse and neglect, but when it dies, man dies.
The stomach gives tons upon tons of good,
rich blood every year to the system, and
draws only 6801 b. of nourishment for its own
use. If, however, the food whicii it receives
cannot be turned into blood which is capable
of use by the body, then the stomach receives
no help from the other organs.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
contain the most perfect digestive
qualities known to science, and, at
the same time, the most powerful.
They will mix with the poisonous
juices of a sick stomach, and digest
food in spite of this handicap.
They will stop gas-making and
bad breath. They tone up the nerves
of the whole digestive canal, includ-
ing those of the stomach.
A single ingredient contains
strength enough to digest 3000 times
its weight in mixed food.
They have stood the test of time, and to-day are more sought after than all their
imitators combined.
These TABULES are sold everywhere at 1/6 for a tin containing THIRTY-SIX
TABUL.ES, or 2/6 for a tin containing EIGHTY TABULES. Buy a tin, eat a good,
square meal, and then take the TABULES according to directions, and note the result.
\ou will forget all about it if you are not careful, for there will be NO PAIN or dis-
turbance, and the food will be DIGESTED just as it used to be when your STOMACH
was WELL and STRONG. Furthermore, your stomach will soon be restored again,
if you keen on taking them, just as thousands upon thousands of other stomachs
have been by the sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE cABULES.
<D*S/iELDOfI*S
Price 2/6
Digest what you eat
THE LONE HAND”
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOL LOW AY’S
Pills <& Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY’S PILLS has meant
The Dawning' Brighter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles. For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation.
You should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc. See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 78 New Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
Keep Your Tootsies Warm.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIFE’S not all beer and skittles, son,
nor is it cakes and ale ;
The luckiest find troubles as they go ;
No man has walked without regrets along
the safest trail
From cradle-rock to coffin-thud below.
Old Adam, if the tale be true, got up against
his share,
And all his sons and daughters multiform
Have had it as a legacy. Yet why should
we despair?
Pluck up your heart and keep your toot-
sies warm.
He is no friend of mine the man who drags
his sorrows in
And chants a psalm about them in my ear,
And groans about his rotten luck, and makes
a croakful din,
And lets his teardrops mingle with his
beer.
I rise in wrath to say to him : “This is no
place for you ;
Go out and buy a pint of chloroform,
And hasten to the boneyard. While you
perish in the dew
I’ll brighten up and keep my tootsies
warm.”
There is a sad and mournful bloke who
meets me now and then,
And tells me of the doubts that rack his
soul
Concerning whether after death we’ll draft
to Heaven’s pen,
Or down to where the Devil stacks the
coal.
I say to him : “Belov&d friend, I do not care
a cuss;
This world below is sweet and rubiform.
I hope the next has halos; but, If uot, why
make a fuss?
Now, stand the drinks and keep your
tootsies warm.”
“All flesh is grass,” the parson says, by
which he means, no doubt,
That Life’s not worth the game; that it’s
a fraud.
Well, let him call it what he likes (say,
spiritual sauer-kraut),
It offers me the goods that I applaud—
The scent of honeysuckle blown upon the
fainting breeze,
The old cicada’s song, the bees that
swarm,
The falling star that scrawls the sky, the
soughing of the trees;
Why, those alone should keep one’s toot-
sies warm.
And then there’s all the girls we know, and
those we’d like to know,
And here and there a man we’ve grown
to love.
Why, dash it, when I balance up the joy
against the woe,
I’d sooner be on earth than Un Above !
Maybe I’ll never go Above (my sin book
must be filled),
But Frovidence will not hear me per-
form ;
I’m satisfied with what I’ve had, and as for
what I’m billed,
The fight is his who keeps his tootsies’
warm.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
Jessie’s Elopement.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JESSIE MACPIIAIL was Scotch—
and original. The most original
thing she did was to elope with Jack
Meadows and make him think he had eloped
with her. If there were ever a man whom
his friends believed capable of escaping the
wiles of women it was Jack. It was not
because they thought he had a cunning that
could overmatch a woman’s, but because he
was protected by a monomania. To him
women were merely skirted nuisances who
never knew which way to dodge his motor-
bike.
He was twenty-seven when Jessie found
him good in her eyes. Other women had
found him likewise; but they had all come
to hate him. It is said that woman is at
the feet of a man who can do without her ;
but few women can stand being walked
over unseen.
Jack thought of nothing but his powerful
motor-bike. He spun about the country
like a man possessed, acquiring fame for a
reckless daring, and a skill with motors that
led him to some ingenious ideas. These he
put into the hands of Jessie’s father for
business exploitation, and considerable
profits arose. Jessie knew these things as
well as everybody else—or a little better,
because she was Scotch. She was also
Pretty, and knew it; also she knew that the
tact was not of the least interest to Jack.
■A- pretty woman rarely need be daring. But
pretty women rarely fall in love with mono-
maniacs. In her elopement with Jack there
was as much impulsive anger as love. Win-
mug alone preserved her love, which was
fortunate— for Jack.
‘Jack, don’t you think there would be
more pleasure for you if you had somebody
■°.share the joy of your break-neck rides’.”
( h—l s’pose so.”
You’ve invented several things. Why
uot make a comfortable seat over your back
w ueel, and take a friend?”
That’s a good idea, Jessie,” he said
thoughtfully. “But I don’t think I could
to come * It's risky.”
I’d come.”
“The dad wouldn’t let you.”
He needn’t know.”
i( Hut the risk?”
“Are you so poor a mechanic?” The
mechanical risk was all he saw. Jessie
could have boxed his ears.
When he arrived home that evening he
began to work out the idea of a back seat,
to be constructed neatly, strongly ; a pillion
seat. In the course of a week it material-
ised.
One Sunday morning he popped proudly
c? a street corner a discreet half-mile from
Jessie Macpbail’s home, and found Jessie.
khe glanced dubiously at the little seat. It
pad a back, a foot-rest and a cushion, and
it was sideways across the back wheel. But
looked longer at Jack.
, I’m game,” she said. Then she smiled
delightfully.
;;Hp w long have you got?” he asked.
, , . day.” He lifted her into the seat,
and kicking the stand into its hold, he got
astride the saddle.
Hang on, Jessie,” and touching a shiny-
tooking pedal with his feet, the street corner
glided away.
. warm caress of the summer was still
m autumn. Rain the previous night
had washed the air and laid the dust. The
speed-created breeze began to murmur in
their ears, accompanied by the ‘‘phut phut”
ot the twin cylinders, and the jingle of
vibrating metal. They wound in and out
ot the house-crowded streets, the exhaust
smacking back from the walls in sharp,
double echoes, and entered the more scat-
tered suburbs, where the houses were built
back from the street, with gardens before
them ablaze with chrysanthemums. The
houses became further apart, and slipped
behind more rapidly as the open road was
gained, and the smell of the city gave place
to the odor of moist earth and stubble. The
machine chattered joyously under its double
burden, and the road rolled from under like
an endless ribbon. Up climbed the hum-
ming bike, and the city sank behind it,
spreading out, and hiding itself modestly
under a blanket of pearly haze, through
which showed at intervals shadowy domes
and spires, and blocks of tall buildings,
which slowly merged into the mist. At last
all that could be seen of it was a widespread
haze splodged with darker patches of smoke.
Then fences became a streak, telegraph
wires undulated in abrupt ripples, the land-
scape sprang from a point, widened, and
closed into a point, a roar from the engine,
a gusty snarl from the .wheel spokes, and a
shriek were in Jessie’s ears as the wind
rushed past them. The machine bounded in
long leaps. At times it vented an eldritch
scream as a black spot appeared ahead,
grew bigger, and flashed by, in a blurred
image of a man, a horse or a vehicle.
“I believe he’s trying to frighten me,”
thought Jessie. She set her teeth and
closed her eyes. Grains of sand struck her
face through its veil like pellets from a gun.
But there was an exhilarating sense of
pleasure in the thought that his body would
be a fender in event of a smash. She began
to feel tired with nervous strain, but the
humming, roaring, shrieking demon beneath
her leapt on relentlessly. The wind went
through her clothes and chilled her; but
she was grimly determined to face every-
thing rather than let him see she was
scared.
They were still rising, winding in and
out along a narrow shelf of mad. which
always revealed another curve when the
last was rounded, and the whole earth ap-
peared to topple from side to sid" as they
swung in and out. Jack sudderl.v slowed
down. Jessie opened her half-closed eyes
on a broad panorama, sun speckled, yellow,
green and blue ; in the distance nurpie.
“We’re on top of the Divide Jessie, and
we’re going to descend. Yon just hang on
to me.” Before she could plead for a rest
the machine was roaring again. There
was a sinking sensation inside Jessie, like
descending in a lift, which made her speech-
less, partly with anger. She felt like a fly
on a bounding football. She snuggled her
nose into Jack’s linen-clad back, and did not
raise it till she felt the speed slackening.
Before them was an undulating plain,
lagoon-studded, and a winding river in the
foreground. On one side was a many-
spanned. high railway bridge, before them a
low traffic bridge, further on houses and
railway yards. Crossing the bridge Jack
popped along a high, grassy bank, and
stooped. Jumping off, he immediately bent
to look at the machine. Jessie jumped off,
and was reaching for his hair when her own
tumbled about her shoulders. Jack rose
and considered his watch,
“Sixty-five in an hour and a quarter,
Jessie. Not so bad with two.”
“Where are we?”
“Seymour; we’ll be in Bendigo for lunch.
Geelong for afternoon tea. and in Melbourne
for dinner.” Jessie went and sat herself
on the bole of a willow. Jack utterly forgot
her as he hent to inspect the machine again,
though he talked to her volubly about its
details. She happened to glance round and
saw him very carefully examining a short
length of rubber pipe.
“What’s that for, Jack?”
“To take up the vibration.”
“T mean the pipe itself.”
“It’s to supply the engine with lubricating
oil ”
“Would it matter if it broke —much?”
“Rather. Air-cooled engines, you see.
require” But Jessie bad ceased listen-
ing. She was busily thinking when Jack
looked round.
“Shall we go on now, Jess?”
“It’s awfully nice here, Jack. Let’s stay
a b'ttle longer.”
She leant easily against the bole of the
willow, and with half-closed eyes gazed
dreamily at the swirling water. Jack flung
himself full length a little way from her
feet. He watched the water too, for a short
while, then he glanced casually at Jessie’s
feet. His eyes became interested. _ They
were small feet, with finelv-arohed insteps,
covered bv dainty shoes. The silk stockings
vanished in a graceful curve under the edge
of a skirt which just touched her neat
ankles. His glance went along the hidden
lines of her limbs to the waist, swept over
the curve of her bust to the neck —and he
met her eyes, watching him.
“Looking at me as if I were a bit of
machinery, Jack?”
“By gum. Jessie, yes and no!” There
was genuine surprise in his eves.
“Still, it’s the mechanism that appeals—
to you?” There was a ring in her voice
that disturbd him.
“I think if must be. Yet. somehow —stand
up, Jess. She obeyed laughingly, which hid
the savage feeling that really made her eyes
bright. He looked her over with narrowed
eves, impersonally, like an engineer examin-
ing an unusual kind of machine.
“The bike’s a clumsy makeshift to you,”
he said sincerely.
“How long has it taken to make motor-
bikes. Jack?”
“Ten years or so.”
“How long has it taken to make us?”
“By gum, a million or two! But what a
devil of a lot must have been scrapped—
(Continued on next page,)


EETHINC RASHES
& SORES
/. ■ .
W
by
Dick
m
7 U
291
Zam-Buk heals cuts,
burns, scalds,
scratches, and is un-
equalled for eczema,
piles, ringworm,
bad legs, ulcers, fes-
tering sores, blood
poison, insect bites,
blisters and sore
f93t,etc. Sold by all
chemists and stores
at 1/6 & 3/6 per pot.
ZAM-BUK : THE IDEAL BALM FOR
BABY’S TENDER & SENSITIVE SKIN
MY little boy, aged two years,
liad a rash break out on his
face and head, caused by
teething,” says Mrs. Harriet Dick-
son, of 299 Wellington Street, Col-
lingwood, Melbourne. “ The disease
first made its appearance in tlie shape
of little red blotches, which broke into
running sores, some of which dried with
thickened crusts on them. The many
remedies we tried did not do any good, and
for 12 months the little chap suffered very
much. The irritation and pain made him very
fretful and cross. After reading about Zam-Buk I ob-
tained a supply, and after using it for a little while I
was pleased to notice the disease was being beaten.
“ I washed him with Zam-Buk Soap and applied
the balm twice a day, and the sores gradually disap-
peared. Inside a couple of months there was no sign
of a spot or blemish, and his face was beautiful and
clear. Zam-Buk completely cured him in a surpris-
ingly short time, considering the obstinate nature
of the trouble, when all other treatments failed.”
DR.
ANDREW
WILSON,
the well-known medical writer and author of
“ Homely Talks on First Aid,” says '
“ Whenever a pot of Zam-Buk is handy , this
preparation may he relied upon as an antiseptic
dressing which requires no preparation, and
has the additional advantage of possessing
unique healing properties.
ONV S3HIOOS n
Colic, Diarrhoea and Dysentery
Are diseases that require immediate attention. In almost every neighbourhood
someone has died from these diseases before medicine could be procured or a
physician summoned.
Those who rely upon physicians often find that they are away from home when
most needed.
Every family, and especially those who reside in the back blocks, should keep
at hand a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic & Diarrhoea Remedy.
No physician can prescribe a better medicine for the purpose for which it is
intended. It is invaluable for both children and adults.
tllti
w^
rs
P
3
Jt
x *
"f
A-
SB<
>=£*
"N
HI
Give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
as soon as the child becomes hoarse,
or even after the croupy cough
appears. It will prevent the attack.
It is used in thousands of homes in
Australasia and we have yet to learn
of a single instance in which it has
not proved effectual.
COUGH REMEDY.
before you arrived.” Her eyes glowed.
Jack could be very nice, without knowing
it.
“Where are the scrap-heaps, Jack?”
“Slums, hospitals, gaols and morgues.”
"You’ve forgotten two things.” lie looked
at her curiously, questioningly. “Bachelors
and spinsters.” He looked startled.
“I never thought of that. Marriage—
kids! What could I do with them?” Her
eyes were veiled as she softly replied —
* “Escape the scrap-heap.”
On the way to Bendigo Jessie felt uneasi-
ness in Jack. He drove more slowly, and
appeared often uncomfortable. It was not
till she discovered that he was comfortable
when her arm was not round him that she
realised what made him uncomfortable. It
was a very angry girl who had lunch at
Bendigo. When it was over she begged to
be excused for a while. When she returned
her eyes were very bright. He saw her hair
had been recoiled, and her cloak brushed.
A small crowd gathered to see them start.
They moved off amidst the jeers of small
boys, to whom everything new is jeersome.
Fat isn’t in it for conservatism with the
small boy —the elemental child. They made
Jack look distressed, which showed in a fear-
ful restraint in his talk as they hummed
along at a moderate speed. She felt it again
in the uncomfortable wriggle he gave when
she put her arm round him as lie
raised the speed. It was good for
his opinion of himself that he didn’tsee the
vicious look she gave the back of his head,
nor hear the snap of her little teeth close to
the nape of his neck. They entered a stretch
of almost uninhabited country. There was
nothing in sight but sheep and cattle, and
about three miles ahead a green-embowered
cottage. The road was bad and lumpy.
Suddenly Jessie smelt burning oil. it yvas
followed by a slight scraping. Before Jack
could stop, the engine was squealing. Then
everything stopped with a jerk.
“Fired, by gum!” said Jack in dismay.
Then he murmured furiously under his
breath. “Gehenna.” But he did not look
at Jessie.
“Wliat’s the matter, Jack?” she asked ner-
vously.
“Matter!” He bent and suddenly glared
at the short section of rubber tubing. “Some-
body cut it.... Damn those kids.” Jessie
began to cry.
“I believe you told them to do it,” she
sobbed, not daring to look at him. He
glared at her helplessly. “How —how far’s
—Melbourne?” she wailed.
“About 80 miles in a straight line,” he
said sullenly.
“Can’t you mend it?”
“That’s the least trouble. I’ve lost all the
oil, and it will take at least three hours to
free the pistons. He glanced with a des-
pairing kind of hope in the direction of the
cottage, now only a mile away. Then kick-
ing the engine free, he started to push the
machine.
The owner of the cottage was a frowsy
man with chaff in his beard and hair. In
response to a question about oil, he said
“Aw,” which Jack interpreted as “Yes,”
when he also brought out a bottle of com-
mon salad oil. He looked surly when Jack
shook his head. He told them the nearest
township was 10 miles away, and that it
sold no other kind of oil. In desperation
Jack sat down and began to pull the engine
to bits. When it was together again the sun
had set.
“Can you let me have a horse?” asked
Jack.
“Ain’t got one.”
“Can you accommodate this lady for the
night?”
“Ain’t got a missus,” he grunted, in dim
recognition of the conventions. They were
giving Jack a terrible time. He looked as if
he would like to take an axe to his beloved
bike. Jessie looked at him with a white
face.
“I can put you an’ your missus up for the
night,” said the man. Jessie looked shyly
at her feet.
“Don’t run away and leave me alone with
that—that gorilla, Jack.” It was Jack who
was really the more shy.
A week after Jessie was married to Jack
she told her mother what she had done to
the rubber connection. Mrs. Macphail
raised her hands in enormous commiseration,
and took a very cautious peep at her daring
daughter.
“But what took ye, Jessie? Meadows
was nae a marry in’ man.”
“It was that took me, mither.” Jessie
was Scotch in the intimacy of her mother's
bedroom.
“Aye, but the reesk, Jessie, the awfu’
reesk.”
“He knew naething of wimmen, mither, or
I wouldna’ aye dared.”
W. SABELBERG.
The Wrong Business.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE man within the 10 x 12 office had
his heels on the table. His eyes
watched the curling tobacco smoke
between himself and the ceiling. A knock
came to the door, a timid little rap that
was half an apology. The legs of the
broker rapidly withdrew to their proper
position, the pipe was laid aside for a pen.
and industry seemed to replace idleness as
he called out briskly, “Come in.”
The man who hesitated forward was the
kind of man you would expect to give such
a knock. He was a little, thin, shiny-black-
clothed individual with a napless tall hat
held nervously in both hands.
“Will you spare me five minutes?” he
asked, humbly.
“Certainly,” said the broker. “Sit
down.”
“I am the Australasian Associated Inven-
tions, Limited,” said the nervous little man
as he took a seat bv the side of the table.
"Representative?”
“No, sir; the Australasian Inventions,
Limited.” said the little man, turning his
face full on the broker.
A sudden look of horror came into the
broker’s face. But he overcame his emo-
tion, and said briskly :
“You asked for five minutes, and I pro-
mised you five minutes, and I’ll keep my
word," he said ; “but” —with emphasis—
"not a minute longer. My time is money.
I only ask you to keep your face to the
clock opposite, and keep your business
within the time stipulated. Now, what do
you want?”
The little man turned his face to the
clock, but turned again at the question.
"The clock, sir,” reminded the broker,
with alarm.
“I'm sorry, sir,” apologised the Inven-
tions, Ltd., turning back to the clock. “I
will not trespass longer than I can help,
but I must lose no time in getting to busi-
ness. Sir, I must let you know what lines
I cal’ry. In the first place I will mention
the El Quiros cigar, which is a little gold
mine. Inventor, a Portuguese whom I met
in Colorado. He had invented a tobacco
juice for giving an exquisite flavor and
aroma to poor leaf tobacco, and was thus
enabled to manufacture the cigar I have
mentioned. Actual cost of production,
three-eighths of a penny; price sold across
the counter of the leading bars and tobacco-
nists, two-and-six. Once smoked you will
never smoke any other brand. The profits
to the Australasian Associated is one-and-
eightpence-halfpeany a cigar. Inventor’s
name is Alfonzo Querriero, a poor but
honest man.”
“Profitable,” commented the broker.
"llow much does Querriero get?”
"Five pounds for the formula,” said the
Inventions, Ltd., turning his face to the
broker again.
The broker almost fell back in his chair
tainting, but by a superhuman effort he
recovered his composure.
“Time is passing rapidly. If you do not
watch the clock the interview is ended.”
“My mistake, sir,” said the little man,
weakly. “I ask your pardon. To resume.
The El Quiros cigar is not in it with the
Instrumental Megaphone. The Instru-
mental Megaphone is intended to do away
with brass bands. When we have placed
this truly marvellous invention on the
market there will be no further excuse for
bands whatever. Where 50 to 60 men,
clothed in gorgeous uniforms, now exist,
we shall have a bugler boy wheeling a
little tin box with a trumpet and delivering
the liveliest and sweetest music imaginable.
This amazing invention is the work of a
German I met in a back lane at Antwerp,
and was bought by me for fifteen and six-
pence. Cost of making, nine and two
pence; scrolls of music, two for three
farthings. Sold to Corporations and the
War Offices of the world for five hundred
pounds per machine, and each scroll thirty
shillings.”
“There’s money in that,” said the broker.
“You have a minute left.”
“I was forgetting,” said the Australasian
Inventions with true humility. “As you
say, there is money in it, but my pet inven-
tion is the Wireless Pressman.”
“The what?”
“The Wireless Pressman —do do away
with reporters, proof readers, outside con-
tributors, and all the hacks of literature.
It is modelled on Merceur’s great invention,
only it collects news, writes in the most
approved diction and submits to the linotype
faultless copy. It takes all the bright
thoughts of all people, and the great
thoughts also, so that the unknown geniuses
of the world contribute to the world’s press
without being conscious of doing so. It
reports great speeches, police-couyt news,
dreadful accidents, murders, suicides in the
most readable form. It is a perfect vacuum
cleaner of journalism, nothing escapes it.
Cost of production, fifteen pounds three and
two pence. Price to me for installation, ten
thousand pounds. The inventor is an
Italian named Gracchi, poor but a genius.
I gave him ten pounds for the rights.”
“But how did you get these marvellous
inventions cheap?”
“They were men of genius.”
“But I asked how did they let these mar-
vellous inventions go so cheaply?”
“Sir. I have explained. They were men
of genius.”
The broker thought awhile, and then
said :
“But why Australasian? What has Aus-
tralia done?”
“Australia is to be one of my customers.
I have named it Australasian for the same
reason that in Berlin I am the German
Associated, and in London the British, and
in New York the American. You grasp
me ?”
“I understand.”
“But,” said the Inventions, Ltd., “a still
better business with me is in the shares.
I am limiting the shares to eight at a quar-
ter of a million sterling, for which I guar-
antee ten per cent, per annum. Three
shares are already subscribed —Rothschild,
one ; Rockefeller, one ; Vanderbilt, one” —
“I cannot understand,” said the broker,
looking round his little shabby office. “Why
do you come to me? Do you wish me to
take a share?”
“No, sir.” said the Inventions. Ltd. “My
business with you is purely personal.” He
paused a moment, and two great tears
began to steal down his che'eks. He had
some difficulty to go on, but at length he
proceeded
“I have come to you for threepence for
some milk to save the life of my mother-
less baby.”
The broker drew a small silver coin from
his pocket and said
“Take it. It is all I have, and I wanted
it badly, but take it and —now, go quickly.”
The old man rose and walked to the
door, when the broker said :
“One minute. Before you go, tell me, is
that an invention also?”
“What, the baby?”
“No, the breath.”
“The breath, sir, is. my own, and quite
natural.”
“Do you mean to tell me that you do
not realise the value of that breath of
yours?”
The old man gazed in silent astonish-
ment. and. su’d nothing.
“Man,” cried the broker, with enthu-
siasm, “what an asset! Get rid of the El
Quiros cigar, the Instrumental Megaphone,
the Wireless Pressman, the Starving Baby,
and stick to the breath. Stick to the
breath. It is a whole brewery.”
Then he wiped the perspiration from his
forehead, and rose from his chair and threw
open the office window as wide as it would
go, and leaned out.
ROBERT BROTHERS.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
f
I
For all types of highspeed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
CONCORD WEST. N.S. WALES.
MoSfT 3l^ nt, J'? er,t8 ~ Holmes & Ch u r oh, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
THE STIRLING WATER TUBE BOILER
o
o
■g.-g"-'"j
...... -
AGENTS FOR
FOR
High Efficiency
AND
Perfect Safety.
We carry Boilers in Stock for Immediate
Delivery, and Quote for Erection
and Brickwork.
We are Sole Agents, and Contract for
Complete Power Plants with Guar-
anteed Results.
Nichols Boiler Feed Pumps, Bolinder Woodworking Machinery,
Dewrance Steam Valves.
Write us lor our Complete Catalogue of Engineers’ Supplies.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Metz-“22 ” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N,s.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour
oom. p. gallon.
Brown U Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waverley, £350.
Indian Motocycles,
85gns.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.
w il-
-331
COLLINS
Works-
STREET, MELBOURNE.
S\RHSTBC
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
- MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
OURCAT
AJ-iULTU
illustrated
'throughout
, , —will be
posted free to those desirous of
,shopping by mall. We sell, carriage
jpaid, Jewellery. Watches. Gramo-
phones, Guns, Novel tieß of all kinds,
ttiany unobtainable elsewhere,
itrnmanfa .t. Rubber Stamps. Music, Mnsical In-
ILfIR'NOVELTY CQMPANY P 2?9°folHi» Sirrst, MsthsHrne
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAUUS INDIAN CIGARETTES
•*P®«toration. Asthma, Neryons Couchs.
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
telieyed by GRIHAULT A*Co‘s INDIAN dintiL
ETTKB. Bold fry all ChmitU. VMAUr
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly
everything
6d
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES
s 5?
a
■
/
SO DO
Beeoiams Pills
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McVVILLIAM, Manager.
cr-s
23
m
20th Century Band Saw
KIRCHNERS
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & GO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
WE ALSO STOCK:
Drilling Machines
Punching and Shearing
Machines
Shaping Machines
Milling Machines
Hack Saw Machines
Blowers
Power Hammers
Morse Goods
And a full range of
Accessories.
This is the “ASTER”
—One of the Most
Popular Lathes Made
Good points in lathe design are useless unless backed by
good workmanship. It’s the combination of these two
essentials that has made the “ASTER” so popular.
Every ASTER ’ is thoroughly examined and tested
under working conditions before leaving the workshop,
and you can depend on soundness in every detail. The
ASTER is designed for precise work. It has 5-inch
centres, runs in outside spring conical boxes, which do
not alter the axial position of the spindles by adjustment.
Ihe spindle is provided with face ball-bearings. Whit-
worth and Metric pitches may be cut on the “ASTER,”
as well as gas-pipe threads.
Altogeiher it is a Eathe you would find very useful—a
wise investment for a shop that has much precise work
* ir. e j 11 ?' m ex P£rt will be pleased to enter into
further details if you write. Let it be soon.
T. M. GOODALL <& CO. Ltd.,
Universal Machinery Merchants, 303-5 RENT STREET, SYDNEY.


ARCHITECTS specify
MACK PARTITIONS
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
-
12in. Fan
taking
45 Watts.
FANS For All ™ lta * cs
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send for Lists.
QF (AUSTRALIA
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane. 3520 city.
MELBOURNE : 61 William Street. *w crty
BRISBANE : Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 Central
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
£
sr
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co
Circular Quay,
SVDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
THE
Vi
c/>
Ui
%
a?
M
#
DALGETY&C9LT9,
AGEHTS.— —'.
vy*\OH
j -j
iZ&m;
• v,nnmssa
' Union ” Harvester.
m
s '4
a
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangvc Kerosene Oil Engine,
G
mm
&
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, an icucks.
A gelu>> « g
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON & SHI JTT EE WORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
. k -
If you Propose Installing a
Milling Machine
Before so. call or communicate with
us, and let us tell you why we think that
THE MILWAUKEE
MILLING MACHINE
is the Best on the World’s
Market at the present day.
STOCKS CARRIED.
Sole Agents:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
3-#
,
NAT
OIL ENGINES
Suitable for both
MARINE and STATIONARY PURPOSES.
BRITISH MADE.
Cost of Running—
-6-lOths of a penny
per B.H.P. per hour .
307-311 Kent St.,
CUTTERS, 6d. each.
COMBS, 2s. each.
_ I \l, —
L ,g^'
! W Z W f§ %,
There's
for
Lister
demand
great
Cutters
ask
Combs
and
o
'en
is
AT ALL STOREKEEPERS.
SOLE AGENTS —
Dangar Gedye 8 Co.
9-13 Young Street, SYDNEY..
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving CHatffcutters, Saw Behches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. RflcKA Y, Sunshine, Vic . Adelaide Brisbane Sydney- Melbourne .
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage Destructor.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Manufactured by
m
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
eg?;
ftagMHfel
wmmm "■ i
jsSsl
$
