

the wnisKy or sterling value
R. G. WATKINS & 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney•
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-Hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D SI C? LJP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUBTACE BENNETT, Coneral Manager.
i g P.V. T ' •
rwoMM ( nc.VrcMAH«f«“>4 T> \ *.i n moWr it mic ot pyffTi Hwtsrm »i gjg
*
Hadley s Orient jjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russetl Street,
MELBOURNE.
:
CQnnoi}»tuO* n j
&Ci
A
at Wholesale
Ol I
m
Hulton'd
HamdA Bacorv
‘JcOu&" #
saanHo
3dld*oia LLNV
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs,
rmm
Junket,
AN SEN’S
IS
a
F.r INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
PALMER
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCAS1 LE
à
á
â
ã
I
m
tP ITV
n
V
|{£>>jo'R£fc\
T*»W>
\vVV^
L)
White
mi
<g
Roofs
You wear—or you like to wear—distinctive clothes—clothes that have character. Why
not have a distinctive Home—one that will display your ideas, one that will give expres-
sion to your tastes ? White Malthoid Roofing gives you the opportunity. It lends
itself to any scheme, and, moreover, it is absolutely the best roofing you can get,
no matter what you are prepared to pay. We gladly send samples and booklets.
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative.
h
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
ä
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
HIM Of SKIES’
CHOICE m _ r
Bacon
Telegraphic Address—BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
HELIIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agent*.
Phillip St.. Sydney, and Redtern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1796.]
[Thursday, July 16, 1914.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


AUSTRALIAN BOORS.
Brady’s I
Chapman’
Jacomb’s
illus.,
Sadlier’s
illus.,
liver Rovers,
s Australasian
3/6 (2d.).
' illus., 7/6 (2d.).
France and England in the New Hebrides,
, 5/- (Id.).
Recollections of a Victorian Police Officer,
. 5/- (2d.).
Purton’s‘Plain Talk on World Problems, 1/6 (Id.).
Searcy’s In Australian Tropics, illus., 3/6 (2d.).
Searcy’s By Flood and Field, illus., 5/- (2d.).
Smith’s Sheep and Wool Industry in Australia,
illus., 7/6 (2d.).
Postages shown in parentheses.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
In the Press:
THREE PLAYS FOR THE AUSTRA-
LIAN STAGE.
“The Wasters,” “Galahad Jones,”
“Mrs. Pretty and the Premier.”
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
These three long plays, each in three acts, together
with a preface, will be issued in one volume on
September 1. Price ss. Subscribers who forward
their names before September will receive the volume
post free, and autographed. Published by the author
(c/o “The Red Page,” Bulletin).
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol TootH Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing and Preserving the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but
cleanses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
fullv, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the teeth
can' do, or will do, without affecting the Tooth Enamel.
BECAUSE the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preseiving the teeth.
Sold at Chemists and Stores, price 1/6.
MOW TO USB THB POWDBMs
[3
The Red Page
Novels for the Tough-Minded
The serious novel, the novel with thought-
stuff in it, the inasculine novel, is still an
essential feature of English fiction. Here are
three recent novels that are eminently
male:— .
Morley Roberts has written many books,
facilely, pleasantly, capably; but he has
written no novel so fine as Time and Thomas
Waring (Nash, per Dymock’s Library).
This is a study of a man who underwent a
complicated major operation to preserve his
life. The operation by a celebrated surgeon
is described with an extraordinary realism ;
but even this realism is surpassed by the
elaborate record of his mental experiences
while under the anaesthetic, and the moral and
mental transvaluation that was worked in
him by the tremendous shock of the experi-
ence. He came out of unconsciousness, after
an infinite period of suffering, during which
time was not, with a strange conception of
this humdrum universe :
“The whole world was mechanical, con-
crete, shining metal. The sky was brass, or
it was rusted iron. People moved not through
any spirit of or any imagined soul such as
he had clung to in his old days when the
inemories and prejudices of his youth were
not analysed and destroyed. There was no
such thing as a soul, and moreover there was
no such thiug as a God. Renshaw, wnom he
imagined when he was away as a mechanical
surgeon of steel armed with knives, had dis-
sected God out of him when he had him on
the table.... The people who walked up and
down the streets . outside w,ere not really
living, as he understood it; and they paced
streets of metal. They moved inevitably
and mechanically through squares wherein
steel trees grew. The houses were concrete,
unfinished, horrible inside.... The matter of
which they were constructed was such as he
remembered on that strange outside of the
world where he had crawled iu his strange
evolution of fire and pain, in that everlasting
and most awful nightmare during which he
had travelled up the whole road of evolution
from the monad to the man, a billion years
of exquisitely awful creation. .. .Those aeons
qf horror had altered him profoundly. He
had enough knowledge of physiology to per-
ceive that they had probably profoundly dis-
turbed the natural and healthy metabolism
of every cerebral and nervous cell within him.
He even supposed that this was what people
called shock.”
Time—the infinite time that Waring had
spent while unconscious—had made him a
new man. The surgeon had cut out his reli-
gious convictions: the new Thomas Waring
had been “converted” to an atheist. The
result was all for the better. In his past
life he had never attempted to understand
his cdmmonplace wife; he had turned his son
out of the house because of some trouble with
a servant girl; he had insulted a decent chap,
with whom his daughter was in love, and
who loved his daughter, but who was tied to a
wife, an incurable drunkard and almost a
maniac. Now he understood, now he shed
his conventional prejudices. He decided *to
save his daughter’s life by allowing her to
go away with her lover; he became reconciled
with his son; he humored his wife' And he
had no uneasy prickings of conscience with
respect to the girl that was his mistress. He
had only a few years to live: he determined
to live them better. He found that impor-
tant things like his work, or his dignity,
were relatively minor affairs. Trifles became
momentous. Through this new world War-
ing, with his new personality, moves with
difficulty, meeting each trouble in turn, striv-
ing always to realise himself, and succeeding.
Then come symptoms of the recurrence of
his malady, and Waring knows, what he had
always known, that he must go again to the
operating table. This time he makes his
preparations for his impending death with a
pathetic thoroughness. The story becomes
tense, absorbing- He does not survive the
second operation.
Through the book there are terse expres-
sions of the hard, masculine, disillusioned
mind. A few dicta will indicate the quality
of this remarkable work, interesting to all
tough minds, especially interesting to doctors.
“He wondered whether women ever did
shed real tears for their immorality or their
sins. Perhaps they mostly shed them about
their social position.”
“All women with passion in them were in-
finitely wise. Any man was a child compared
to them ; he was their victim when they cared
to reach out their warm hands.”
“For any woman a man is but a boy. When
they were by themselves women talked of
their sons and husbands as if they were all
boys of 16—hard to manage, and yet kindly
and amenable creatures if treated properly.
Of course they were troublesome.”
“A man’s conscience was. the most uncer-
tain guide. It might as well be a counsel of
imperfection as of perfection; at its best it
was no more than a general indication, useful
to the timid and unenterprising. Any pioneer
had to outrage his own conscience as well as
that of other people and reduce it to the posi-
tion of a counsellor to be heard, weighed, con-
sidered, but not necessarily followed.”
“The physicians’ business as a whole was
too much for any man to learn. They had
run up against the eternal nature of things;
they could not specialise and know all medi-
. cine, and they could not know all medicine
without specialising. His friend had admitted
to him that the time was rapidly approach-
ing for the development of some instinctive
race of diagnostic specialists whose sole
business would be to tell patients what doctor
to go to.”
“It’s a sign of disease to be a moralist, or
to be religious. All you’ve got to do is just
to go to work —don’t think about anything.
When a man begins considering his position
In the universe he ought to have six weeks’
hard labor. A philosopher ’s a symptom of
social disease.”
“‘Are women geniuses, too?’ ‘Oh, they?
Of coux-se they are, and they know it and
laugh. That’s their secret.’ ”
“Certainly women were not naturally
religious ; their religion was attached to the
family, their husbands, their lovers. It was
only the distorted aud suppressed affections
which turned towards Heaven. Women were
essentially practical, they erected their altars
in their own houses; their deitjes were those
they loved and those who loved them : near
at hand, close to their, lips, their hearts.”
It is the elaborate Fortitude method, and
not the more brilliant Prelude to Adventure
method, that Hugh Walpole adopts for The
Duchess of Wrexe (Bell, per Dymock’s
Library). Which is a pity. This novel re-
quires a vast canvas, filled with people that
are certainly interesting, but too remote from
the lives of the (Australian) reader to
demand much of his sympathy. The Bea-
minsters are a family of titled nonentities
who in the Victorian age are regarded as the
rulers of England. Their head is the'cele-
brated Duchess of Wrexe, a domineering,
posing old woman who takes over 400 pages
to die. The story is the revolt of Rachel,
an orphaned grand-daughter, against the
harsh rule of the ancient duchess. The
canvas is certainly covered ; the Beamisters
are, if somewhat sleepily, alive; and
Rachel and her husband, her cousin and
Lizzie Rand, are poignantly real; and the
background—the London of that period—
has its highly important place in the big
scheme. The larger theme is the disintegra-
tion of the dominion of the rulers of Vic-
torian England, sharply hastened by the
transformation wrought in the English char-
acter by the hapless muddle of the Boer
war, and the consequent emerging of modern
democracy. The crisis of the plot, when
Rachel is about to “clear” with her cousin,
is solved by what looks at first as the crudest
of expedients—an accident that renders the
husband a hopeless invalid. But, with a
brilliant psychology, Walpole makes this
intrusion of chance the starting-point of the
development of the husband’s character —
without which the story could have ended
only in a hopeless tragedy. There are scenes
of the tensest interest in this leisurely
chronicle of pampered and fatuous lives;
but the slow development of the theme is,
artistically, a blemish. Walpole has sacri-
ficed his story for his atmosphere.
J. D. Beresford, author of the astounding
Goslings, is' less interesting in The House in
Demetrius Road (Heinemann, per Sydney
Book Club). There are but three characters
in this grim story of alcohol and Robin Greg.
Greg is a brilliant Scotsman with great poli-
tical chances ; but he is a drunkard. A young
secretary and Greg’s sister-in-law make a
long, harassing fight to cure the man. and in
the end have to confess defeat. The de-
scription of their dreadful struggle is con-
vincingly done; but: the interest of the book
lies in the interaction betweep the three char-
acters. First Martin, the secretary, is ex-
cluded from the companionship of the woman
and the drunkard, then Martin finds himself
in sympathy with Greg, excluding the
girl. jNext Martin learns that Greg is to
marry; her. Finally the girl and Martin come
together in friendship and then in the inevit-
able love, and Greg lapses from decency and
lovableness again into the beast. It is a
story admirably told in the intensive method,
devoted to details, profoundly psychological.
But —slightly dull.
June
The early-flowering wattle bloomed in
many of the 48 entries for the best sonnet
on our June. Good attempts were made by:
W. Calm, Herbert Tracey, 11.M.C., Mary
Bayliss, “Pasquin,” E.B. (too cataioguey),
Mary A. K. Robb (two entries, one with a
fine sestette, and the other that begins with
a pleasant fancy :■ —
At night the hills are lost amidst the skies
That wrap them round to hide them as they sleep,
And cradle them in cloudy cribs so deep,
They are like little babes in Paradise.
L.K. (whose nice sestette does not scan),
Charles E. Pettinger (who uses a wrong
rime-scheme and affects awkward words like
“dampish” and “Springish”), and Ethel
Lovegrove (who requires four rimes for her
octette).
In the humorous section, R. G. Plenderson
sees June from the schoolmaster’s angle as
the exam, month, M.B. dotes on football,
“The Swagman” is pardoned for a pleasant
first offence, Edward Hungerford submits a
woeful tram-conductor’s June, and “Mick
Much” is busy among the shearers. Two
ask for quotation :
Fair dinkum go, ole June’s th’ plowman’s nark!
Ter quit yer warm ole bunk afore it’s light,
’En ’op inter a world thet’s frozen w’ite,
Don’t make a feller apt ter kum th’ lark.
'En w’en yer ’unt for neddies in th’ dark,
’En flop inter a puddle, don’t yer bite!
’En wish old Nick ’u’d kum erlong ’n’ smite
Th’ job ’n’ plow ’n’ ’orses stiff ’n’ stark!
But still at times, ter giv ’ole June ’is due,
’E ain’t all frost ’n’ slush ’n’ rain ’n’ sleet.
The’s days w’en Solly slides ’is smilin’ way,
Across er sky thet’s double boshter blue,
’En all th’ birds is turnin’ up er treet,
Ez though it wuz er glad September day.
W. E.
We’ll ’ave ernother downpour very soon;
Ther cowyard’s ankle-deep in mud ergain ;
It’s orful!— damn an’ blarst th’ blanky rain !
It started with ther change of th’ last moon.
Gor’ strike me pink—l likes ther mouth of June!
I’ve ’arf er mind ter catch ther blanky train,
An’ duck ter town ! ’Twould turn a fellar’s brain
’Ere pullin’ teats at morn, an’ night, an’ noon!
Where are them oogs uv Hell? Great Scott' -!r/-
parst!
I wonder ’ow th’ doss ’ill rouse! What oh;
They should be in th’ bails an’ milked be now:
Oh, there they are, th’ blanky rnongs, at larst!
By Gripes, I’ll shift ’em! Hi, there, Strawb rey!
Flo! ,
Git up there, Snowy. Spot! ter flamin’ cow ! !
T. V. T.
Fine sonnets were forwarded by Nina
Murdoch, Duncan Brown, A. Gore-Jones
(two), and S. Elliott Napier. Leslie Lee
is too careless about his caesura: two semi-
colons and a period occupy the same place
in three consecutive lines; but his sestette
is pleasant. Boyce Bowden (M'.L.) comes
nearer perfection in his sestette: —
Then I called to her! “June!” —the very word
Found echo in the sorrow of the skies!
A wondrous wind came storming from the south,
And every clamorous pulse of Winter stirred.
I could not see! —the rain was in mine eyes!
Nor cry again!—a green bough lashed my mouth!
Three sonnets contest the prize. _ “iEneas
Hayseed” slightly overloads her picture of
the rain, though most of the details are sig-
nificant and all are Australian. Lilia
McKay subtly gets the atmosphere of the
Maoriland bush; but Helen Power’s
(Elbodur-street, Hobart) stark etching of
the frost-bound Australian landscape claims
the prize. It is a pity that three such excel-
lent sonnets have to meet in one competition.
/ who have lived in distant, rosy Junes,
Filled with the songs of nightingale and
thrush,
Wait in the silence of the sombre hush
Amidst the dripping ferns. Strange, mourn-
ful tunes
Are home upon the dusk-ivind, that com-
munes
With wintry houghs and grasses rank and lush
By still lagoons. Against the sunset flush
The hlack swans speed above the lonely
dunes.
The swollen torront surges from the hill,
The turbid river carries flowing fear
Across the plain. The night mist chills.
■ Yet long
And longer yet / pause with heart a-thrill,
For through the rustle of the rain I hear
A silver-throated tui lost in song.
LILLA G. McKAY.
The furrowed lands shine emerald again,
Winter and dearth for glorious growth make
way,
Where wheat plants wave their spears in
bold array
The bushlahd trees reflect the vivid stain
Where mournful curlew choirs at night com-
plain.
And meditative ibis pose by day,
The creek runs singing on its rock-strewn
way,
Filled overfull by warm, monsoonal rain.
Across the flat the bounteous flow spreads
wide,
Quenching the fire of crimson water weeds;
Its sinuous waves 'twixt gum trunks softly
glide,
Brim the lagoon and overwhelm the reeds
While , Bpring’s bright wattle buds above the
tide .
Are dancing in a million golden beads.
“ENEAS HATSEED.”
JUNE.
The public that read plays is a steadily-
growing one, even in Austtalasia. A book
that should be welcomed by this public, and
also by all wbo are interested in the Aus-
tralian drama that isn’t, is Three Plays for
the Australian Stage , by Arthur H. Adams.
In one volume (published by the author;
5s.) will be included three long three-act
plays: The Wasters, a drama that on its
production by the Adelaide Literary Theatre
caused some controversy about its morals;
Galahad Jones, a dramatisation of this
author’s novel of that name; and Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier, a political comedy set
down for early production by the Melbourne
Repertory Theatre. The edition, which will
have the usual preface, is limited. Subscrib-
ers who forward their names to the author
will receive the volume post-free and auto-
graphed, provided their subscriptions are
received before publication date, Septem-
ber 1.
By HELEN POWER.
Surely some fay has been at work all night,
To change the drear, bleak world of yester-
day
Into this dream of silver, blue and gray,
Fit for an Ice-Queen's Palace of Delight!
The very cart-ruts in the road are bright, .
Decked by the frost with lines of braiding
gay.;
Mists, opal-tinted, hang above the bay,
And orchards look like etchings, black on
white.
Festooned from every twig, with exquisite
art,
Millions of spiders' webs with crystal hung
Sparkle like diamonds in the low sun's rays.
And oh! the sound that brings me home, my
heart!
With what impassioned rapture upward
flung — _ .
The magpies carolling their morning praise!
The Intellectual Drama
“A play of ideas,” according to W. L.
George, “is damned. Not a single play of
ideas has, during the last 1U years, enjoyed
as good a run as a Garrick Theatre failure.
....Most of these plays have not emerged
from the sympathetic bosom of the Stage
Society; a few have flashed meteoric through
Terry’s, the Savoy, or the Court Theatre,
leaving the night darker behind them....
Taken as a wnole, the public shuns Shaw
and Galsworthy: it prefers to crowd where
mellifluous sounds usher in fair maidens.
A small section, known as the elect, has dis- .
covered the serious drama, and pursued it
through dreary matinees in obscure assembly
halls, but it has never been so large as to
interfere with the traffic of the Strand.”
Thus W. L. George stresses the obvious —
that the serious author or playwright cannot
compete in popularity with the frivolous
writer of romance or musical comedy—in
his Dramatic Actualities (Sidgwick and
Jackson, per Sydney Book Club). It is not
that these plays are too good, he contends;
it is because they are too bad. Their authors
do not commit the seven cardinal sins of
their craft: the aside, the soliloquy, imper-
sonation, eavesdropping, coniidences, the los-
ing of papers, and the wrongful assumption
of guilt. Their sins are more subtle. Accord-
ing to George, our playwrights of ideas are,
as a body, guilty of 10 crimes : the shadowy
plot, the play without a climax, hypertrophy
of the atmosphere, sentiment (sometimes),
garrulousness, the exaggerated type, inveter-
ate gloom (sometimes optimism), obscurity,
length and shapeless purpose. There!
Having created his dramatic decalogue,
George proceeds to discover and despatch the
criminals. Here are some of his summary
sentences of doom: The Tragedy of Pompey
the Great is merely a set of dissolving views:
The Passing of the Third-Floor Back is
merely a series of interviews where nothing
happens save demi-god blarneying; The
Madras House has no climax; Magic none
save in incoherence; and as regards You
' “Never Can Tell, it is recognised as an ex-
travaganza ; sentimentality is chronic with
Barrie; in Wfyat Every Woman Knows it
reaches its zenith; all Wilde’s plays, except
Salome, are feeble; they are nothing but
goody-goody ness; except the earlier plays, all
Shaw is talk, rhetoric. Fanny's First Play
suffers greatly from verbosity. Strindberg’s
Creditors, and Zangwill’s The Next Religion
contain an’ absolute debauch of talk. Waste
and Man and Superman suffer from the same
disease. The characters in Shaw and Barker,
such as Dubedat, Major Voysey, Ann, Tan-
ner, Rigeon, are exaggerated and inhuman
without being superhuman. There is not a
moment of joy, or life-lust in Justice, Waste,
Rutherford and Son, Mid-Channel, Strife and
The Silver Box.
Yet George admits there are good plays of
ideas. He mentions some of Shaw’s, modt
of Galsworthy’s, Conrad’s One Day More,
Fenn’s Convict on the Hearth, Calderon’s The
Fountain, The Cassilis Engagement (St. John
Ilankin), Maugham’s A Man of Honor. We
should be grateful to George that he has left
us even this tiny list.
The author is to be thanked, however, for
having pointed out that the serious play of
ideas attracts just as scanty support in
Europe as it does in England (and Aus-
tralia). Light plays are a success in every
Europeafi capital; the European mind is not
on the whole east in a serious mouldall
that continent does is to supply a serious
section. The reason why London, with a
population treble that of Berlin and Vienna,
does not provide a larger serious section
George puts down to the faults of the British
serious dramatists. George rightly believes,
up to a certain point, in the box-office test.
First-class work seldom fails completely or
scores heavily ; it has a fair success, no more.
George appeals for lightness, compromise on
the part of over-serious dramatic persons.
A delightful little book, with some sincer-
ity underlying its obvious smartness.
F. *B. Maurice, in a protest (too long to
print) against our ban on the rimes “dawn”
and “morn,” offers this interesting sonnet,
the rimes of which strictly conform to our
practice:—•
“Under the opening eyelids of the morn”
A maiden fled like any startled fawn,
Her bruised feet scarce touched the dewy lawn,
Her hair was snoodless ,and her garment torn;
“Alas !” she cried, “why was I ever born”
(Was ever such a moving picture drawn,
Such sculptured misery out of marble sawn?)
“To be the jest of fate, the mark of scorn?”
But as she wailed, so hapless and forlorn,
A light within her eyes began to dawn,
A knight appeared (or was he but a pawn?)
Who shouted, as he wound his silver horn,
“Sweet Fay ! who dost this sylvan scene adorn,
I will protect thee with this arm of brawn.”


xtae
E
a
d e
araous low rnees
is
v
s-7
H
rrr
■
[M
:ll
Z//J//
28/6
3404
■5.?
32/6
2S)$6
ZS/9
37/6
888
35/
FASHION and Economy go
hand in hand in the Green
Room at the New Palace
Emporium, where the choicest
creations of the season are
shown in variety that will
satisfy the most exacting. Far
and away the best value in
the land is assured by the
influence of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Fifteen Shillings expended at
the New Palace Emporium
will go farther than a
Sovereign spent at any other
Store. Be Wise! Pop your
orders in the post for anything
you want, and reap the full
benefit of our Unique System
of Spot Cash Trading.
FOR PRESENT WEAR,
No. 888. — Comfortable Full-length Coat, of Navy
Corduroy Blanket Cloth, new panel back tapering to foot,
circular Collar and Revers of Self, contrast pipings and
Buttons, fastening with large Ornament of Self.. 35/-
Same design, No. 880, Blanket Fleece Corduroy, in Navy
only, contrast pipings of Velvet .. .. .. 25/6
No. 3404. — The New “Muffler” Coat, made of nli-
Wool soft Diagonal Serge, set-in sleeves, straight-cut back,
patch Pockets. Collar can be fastened high at neck, or
worn open, forming Revers, in Navy only .. .. 32/6
Style No. 529, Navy Blanket Fleece, full length.. 29/6
No. 2996.—Attractive Navy Face Cloth Coat, full
length, large Collar, Revers and Cuffs handsomely embossed
Navy Silk Braid, fastening to side with large Frog Orna-
ment •• 37/6
Style No. 5826, better quality, Navy Face Cloth, richly
braided • • 42/-
No. Al3l7 — Fine Navy Vicuna Cloth Coat, seven-
eighth length, fancy tube back with wide lapped seams,
double Collar effect and long Revers. trimmed black
Silk .. . . . . 28/6
Similar style, No. 1319, Navy Cloth, seven-eighth length, with
Silk Poplin Facings and Buttons .. .. .. 32/6
No. 6823.—We11-tailored Seven-eighth-length
Coat, of Navy Cheviot Serge, wide band effect, outlined
with scroll design of Black Silk Braid, rounded fronts,
circular Collar of Silk Velvet .. .. .. 25/9
No. 2562. — Very Dressy Coat and Skirt, has the
fashionable loose Coat, slightly pleated into wide waist
band, the Collar, V shaped Cuffs and Buttons are of the new
Suede Velear in shades to tone, higli-waisted four-piece
Skirt has wide, stitched lap seams, made in Navy Cheviot
with Reseda, Tan' and Saxe trimmings •• 47/6
No. 2532/2. — Navy and Black Coat and Skirt, in
rough serge, Collar and folded Belt of Black Sa'tin, slightly
cased into Basque at waist, well-cut, high-waisted four-
piece Skirt has lap seams back and front, finished Satin
Buttons .. .. .. . . .. 18/11
No. 2400. — Very Durable Coat and Skirt, in Navy
Cheviot Serge, Collar, Cuffs and Buttonholes are trimmed
with plain Cloth in either Lime, Tan or Grey, smartly cut
at hack, slightly eased into shaped, piece at waist, trimmed
Braid Buttons, well-cut four-piece Skirt with lap seam back
and front .. .. .. .. .. .. 36/9
No. 2501. — Useful Coat and Skirt, in shadow stripe
Tweed, well-cut Coat trimmed on Collar with Black Satin,
plain, nicely-shaped Skirt, in Brown and Grey .. 22/6
In, Navy Serge Cloth, trimmed Silk Braid, suitable for good
hard wear 21/9
No. 2281. — Rough Serge Coat and Skirt, in Navy or
Black, Revers on Coat finished Black Corded Silk, shaped
pieces on sides, trimmed Bone Buttons, strap at hack.
Skirt is high-waisted and has wide lap seams - - 25/9
I
5"
if I
2552,
256
18/11
'47fc
24-0
56/9
*
228/
2501
2SA
22 6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace JLmporiiim,
Brickfield Mill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


TRADE MARK
Riflh and Pistol
CARTRIDGES
Winchester Cartridges are
made in all calibers for all
kinds of rifles, revolvers and
pistols. They are loaded with
smokeless and black powder
and various kinds of bullets.
From the tiny .22 to the big
.50 caliber they shoot uniformly
and accurately. They are
always effective for small
game, big game, dangerous
game, target practice or pro-
tection. Winchester Car-
tridges may cost a few cents
more over the counter, but
any difference in price is
more than made up by their
superior quality and general
reliability. Insist upon having
Winchester make, and
LOOK FOR Tim
ON THE BOX.
120
jmm, w' -v >
, » <lt . t i
/!« ■Sii
I, r ‘ '
“Think What That Means to You!
It’s Easy Going for the ‘IWAN’
Post-hole Digger.”
The man who has been accustomed to using a pick and shovel, or any
other antiquated/ mfcthod 'of digging. Post " Holes, will recognise the
value and utility, of the “Iwan” Post-hole Digger.
The “Iwan” is a decided Time, Money and Labor Saver. In using
a spade, the. hole lias to be made about four dimes the size-of. the’
post, in order to obtain the required depth, consequently, when the
post is put in, there is a large amount! of. earth :to be*
shovelled back and rammed, which docs not assure its
rigidity.
The “Iwail” is made in sizes to suit practically any
post, therefore there is not much surplus earth.
Observe how the blades are interlocked,
having notched edges for that purpose.
Made in the following sizes:
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 12 14in.
7/- 7/- 7/- 7/- 7 6 8 6 9 6 10/- 27/- 54/- each.
LABOR MINIMISED.”
$
USE an EARTH SCOOP for making DAMS, DRAINS, etc.
These Jiarth Scoops are well built, the body being- pressed cold from a solid sheet of steel, which
gives it extra strength. The only aid which is required for working them is a horse hitched
to the runners, and someone to guide with the help of the handles. The old, back-breaking, labor-
making method of using a pick and shovel for channelling and excavating is outclassed and
superseded by these' Scoops. -
Fitted, with Steel Runners and Detachable Handles.
No. 3 —Capacity 3 cubic feet, 32/0
No. 2 —Capacity 5 cubic feet., 357-
No. .I—Capacity 7 cubic feet, 37/0
No. o—Capacity 10 cubic ft., 80/-
Onr new" 300-ptwe Catalogue of Tools for
the Kami, Home and Workshop is nearly
ready. ‘ Write for it !
AJ^Pfierson’sb
Proprietary Ltd. '—
554-66 S 582-88 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Don't hesitate—
get a bicycle built of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
You will never have cause to regret it. It
may cost you a little more at first than a
“pattern" "machine, but it will prove the
cheapest in the end.
You cannot afford to buy a cheap “pattern" machine—
you will be continually "paying out” for repairs, etc
and then have to "scrap" it, whereas with one built ot
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings you will always have easy and
pleasant cycling, and your machine will fetch a good
price should you wish to dispose of it.
REMEMBER—ALL B.S.A. PARTS
PERFECTLY INTERCHANGEABLE.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOE
THIS MARK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
fMDCHUS
B.S.A,
B.S A.
SPARE
PARTS
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
Fittings
Gheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop lyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN SONS LTD.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Bmporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/(5. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN. choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH'S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/(j. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, stool heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/(5. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
a
DINNEFORDS
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
Dinneford's
Magnesia
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
■JLJ
liiiiFiFiiflmfl
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from >s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
6*
EX3
SOCKS and
STOCKINGS.
Insist on having "SCL / You will like them
better than any * you have ever worn.
Because th=y are better. The perfectly knitted all-wool texture;
the unshrinkableness ; the soft silky feel : the fast hygienic dyes
and the beautiful snug fit make “6a MgrL the best hose you can
have. There is an immense range ' * of styles and col ur-
ings in 'GaAOfil amongst them just those you will like. And
they * cost no more than you would pay for the
ordinary kind.
Socks and Stockings are made in all styles
ani prices for men, ladies, and children. If
your dealer does not stock them insist upon his getting
them Jor you.
In ease of difficulty, write
JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER. ENGLAND.
AaA‘2
uOJ
f\A
1


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and ceils.
Ail the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
rrY ou 11 J ust S° right to the heart of the trouble.
Wnat the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
fs an adequate food—a real uuh iment.
ROWLAND S MAI ASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding " cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair-Wt/i
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND'S
Macassar Oil!
:s sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or simi/a' • name.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
å
leu Days' Trial allowed. Direct Iron)
Factory. Highest-grade British MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, l'iyer
or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
I. A TEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Write at once. using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE
Dept A 282
COMPANY,
LIVERPOOL.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(In Ink) by using: your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
.6
"•
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10J x
83, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making' 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/G ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Vapor which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street. Valiev. Brisbane
ELEY,
CARTRIDGES
Eley
‘Grand Prix’
Cartridge Case,
loaded with Eley
Smokeless, Ballis*
tite, Smokeless <£>
Diamond,Schultze,
or any standard
smokeless powders
Always
Reliable
Eley-310
Cadet
Smokeless
ā
Eley’4so
Revolver
Eley32o
Revolver
Eley
Single Rise
Expert Trap
Eley Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale: Eleyßros.,Ltd.,London
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price Gd.
i
e*
0
m
n
II
Si
RUNKENNESS Cured
Any woman can cure the most violent drunkard — SECRET f;Y —at home. GOLDKX
SI’KQIFIC lias no odor or lasle. and can be taken by the most delicate person of either
sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathy to alcohol
in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days with this treatment... .Send 2d.
stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2019, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A CHARMING FIGURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
Hie lack of a wcll-roumleil, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
ol four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers.... Are your
checks sunken and hollow? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thin anil scrawny? And is your chest Hat
and your bosom undeveloped? Do your shoulder-blades .and the ‘‘.-alt-
cellars that form at your throat make evening dress almost a tragedy?
Arc you so thin that your clothes merely liana' on you?
AlltS. \. GRAIIAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:—
“Your treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank
Dr. I* A 1,1,1 PI It M'S I'’I,KS II - l-’OOl) for not only restoring
iny health, hut lor building up my figure and develop-
ing my hunt to my entire satisfaction. lam better in
every way from Its use, and it did exactly what you
I jfe %/„
• % "'^l
mJLM
Wm
claimed it would from Its use, and oven more quickly Ilian you stated."
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches, ami the gain in
actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases -has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other oases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a dav. The
average bust increase desired is about six indies, and is readily accomplished. Kesulis guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable "figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here, but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
We want you to know just what FLESIT-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“LOVELY WOMAN.” FLESII-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered and free from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buy because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FAEEIERE FEESH-I'OOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [IS22J
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
ant
offi
eat 1
ENTERPRISING I’IiESER\ E GANNERS in every part ot the world
*—•'have come to realise that • the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you arc using cans
Lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or. in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 08 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies l}in. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope ‘in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are ItY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Alaking These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blaclcall P. 0., Q’land)
luritcs: “l was a heavy smoker for Go years,
hut after taking your treatment for V, days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereafch St., Sydney.
[2.
PAGES FOE EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in'
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women children.
CESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitisii Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 135 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John-a-Dreams.
I thank thee, thank thee, John-a-Dreams,
For all the good thou’st done me.
The hidden heads of magic streams
The marble peaks thou’st won me;
And chiefly for thy Will o’ the Wisps,
That lured when light had left me,
The gleam and glow that cheered me so
When Sorrow had bereft me.
When Hell was just a working day,
A-frown with black disaster,
Who shot it through with silv’ry ray
And showed the glory vaster?
Who set with pearl the roof above,
The caves that yawned below me?
Who bade the genii lead me forth
And for their master know me?
If skies were grievous, John-a-Dreams,
And scowling clouds beset them,
Who turned my soul to starlit themes
And cried: "The clouds, forget them!”?
Who led me with the Caliph round
Old Bagdad’s revel olden.
And made me quaff and gaily laugh
And see that Life was golden?
When Love, the winged, rose and fled,
Deriding tears and clamor,
When (fool!) I thought that Hope was dead,
Who waved the wand of Glamor?
Who brought.me down the Shining Yale
To view the Gate Immortal?
Who handed me the Magian torch
And bade me touch the portal?
In truth, in truth, O John-a-Dreams,
A trusty friend I know thee!
Who holds thee light, lie little deems
How much we mortals owe thee;
lie hath not sailed th<‘ Sapphire Seas
That BlessiVl Isles environ.
Nor ventured near the Enchanted Bock
To listen to the Siren.
What roses bloom by Shiraz walls.
What diamonds stud the Vindh.va,
M hat treasures hide in Persian halls
Or Ivory Towers of India;
What madly-witching madrigals
The fairies pipe in May-time,
He only knows whom John-a-Dreams
Hath guided out o’ day-time.
And so wo thank thee, John-a-Dreams,
For every fond elation,
Although thy cup but over-teems
Willi pure intoxication;
The Days of Wine and Love are thine.
The dusk is twined about thee,
And night hangs out thy starry sign—
For what were night without thee?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
A Cycle of Hash-house Breakfasts.
Boast, boiled or fried, I know not what they
are.
They call them grilled in this establishment.
Perchance they cooked them at the morning
star,
Or warmed them at the sun before lie went
Down the west stair to waken far away
All Europe to the joys of yesterday.
’Tis Monday morn. To-morrow ’twill be
steak.
The bones of this day’s chops will lie at rest
Ere some shall rise again and deftly take
Dark, hard-wood slices from the toughened
breast
Of Babylonian bulls men wonder at
And softly lather them with chilly fat.
Next day is doomed to sausages, the brown,
Strange product of confusion and dread hope.
Oh, merry little lambkins frisking down
To greet the lowing beef upon the slope !
Oh, other animals by fortune sent —
Horse, hide and pork in one mixed burial
blent!
Bacon is next, with strips of heart of bull,
Known as “lamb’s fry” by ancient courtesy.
Friday has fish, such creatures as men pull
Out of fierce seas where naught is living free
Save that which may the hunt of nature beat
That hungry sharks pass by and will not eat.
On Saturday the chops return again,
A pleasant duplicate of Monday’s fry.
But on the happy Sabbath we refrain
From words of evil when afar there fly
Through the still air those odors sweet and
shrill
That tell us liam-and-eggs are on the bill.
Alas! By Pharaoh’s mummy there were set
Some lien fruits gathered by the oldest Nile,
And these with tears of melted suet wet
Upon our Sunday plates awake and smile.
Yea, all the pageant of the ancient East
(lives flavor to our Sunday morning feast.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMO NWEALTH.
Just Girl.
Girl! in the soft-sounding silken array
Swimming, so sylph-like, in sibilant swirl,
Stealing the soul of our senses away;
Girl, how you set all our senses awhirl.
Girl! —as I said before—once again Girl!
Gild, I declare that is all I’ve to say—-
I am the flax, girl, and you are the fire ;
You arc the sunshine and I am the clay,
You, electricity, I am the wire ;
You are the music, if I am the lyre.
This is a rhapsody!—Girl, you’re a flirt;
Truly. I care not a rap for your smile ;
I observe coldly the cut of your skirt.
Criticise calmly your ankles the while ;
Shrug at the tricks that you use to beguile.
Why do I utter these silly remarks?
Out of pure idleuess, girl, I protest.
I am but stone to you, these are the sparks,
Struck by the steel of your hard little
breast;
There’s not a glimmer of heat in the jest.
Let me be just to you. Turn, let me see ;
True, of a beauty, of sorts, you’re a pearl.
Still, I am glad you are nothing to me.
Yet, let me help you adjust that cute curl.
So; let it go at that. You are just Girl.
MAJORCA, SPAIN.
WAIF.


The fine, mild flavor and
pleasing aroma of SARONY
Cigarettes will aid you in
solving your business pro-
blems.
Keep a Box of
K
aron
CIGARETTES
In Turkish or Virginia.
in the top drawer of your desk.
To smoke them once is to always prefer them.
All Tobacconists.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
Don’t Wait until your Competitor gets his Store
Electrically Lighted—Mr. Country Storekeeper.
Look ahead, don’t give him advantage. YOU can
secure it if you act NOW.
A “ Lister-Bruston ” Automatic
Electric Lighting Plant
(as illustrated complete) generates
Electricity automatically. The En-
gine and Dynamo start themselves as
soon as the lights are switched on. No
costly storage battery is needed —the
lights are lit direct from the Dynamo.
Low in cost, and delivered practically
ready for connecting up to Shop Wir-
ing. May we talk it over with you
in person, or by post?
«
ti
»
yj)
i
n
> *
i
m
1
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND-WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
tm
fTTh
cm
cm
"""~ ■ ■|HlHllH_J | 'i' | ' lll ""n"n"'C=»iiHW''" 1 "»n_Fii
IN DUSTRIAL CARS
"QJI
B
U
S
E
"s
C
H
A
R_
A
¥
A
N
C
S
Rapid & Economical Haulage.
Silent Knight Engine.
Silent Shaft and Worm Drive.
NO CHAINS!!
Steel Wheels.
Silent Running- Gear Change.
Daimler Motor Vehicles have
given the greatest satisfaction to
all Australian users.
No. i’Bus of the fleet of Melbourne
Omnibus Co. was overhauled after
running 52,000 miles. Total
replacement at overhaul —one ball-
race —slightly worn.
Daimler Vehicles are built to with-
stand the roughest conditions.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
L
O
R
R
I
E
S
L
I
x
D
E
L
x
v
E
x
Y
HUGH VICTOR fIcKAY, Chairman
S. HUTCHINSON, Managing Director
Sunshine Motor Cars Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY ADELAIDE BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
Cr. Collins and
Spencer Streets.
SPECIAL HEAVY
THREE RIBBED
77
sc
US'
ITi
r
I*s
3?
8
/j.
Australian=Made Tyres
GIVE LONGER MILEAGE and LESS TROUBLE.
MANUFACTURED BY PRICE LIST and ALL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAD
S'iS
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
03 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Brighter Floors
with
Work.
If you do youp polishing with
SHI-NOLEUM, you will And that It gives
youp Linoleums, 'Wood Floors and Fur-
niture a bright, lustrous finish, and will
enable you to do your work in half the
usual time, and at only half the expense.
Order a tin to-day, you will be delighted
with the result. Look well at the name
“SHI-NOLEUM” so as to avoid Imita-
tions.
7
>5
Bold by all Storekeepers
In N.S.W., Victoria
and Queensland.
€
This is the Chinese symbol for completeness. It stands for something
that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
IT IS SYNONYMOUS WITH
The WARNER & SWASEY
Universal, Hollow-Hexagon Turret Lathes
No. 3A.—WITH “CHUCKING EQUIPMENT.”
For Bar and Chucking Work —equally efficient for both. Two highly
Developed Machines in one —combining the Rapidity and Accuracy of the most
modern Turret Lathe, and the adaptability of the Engine Lathe.
TWO SIZES.
No. 2A.—Bar Capacity, 2*4 x 26; Castings and Forgings, 12in.
No. 3A. —Bar Capacity, 3% x 36; Castings and Forgings, 15in.
Now is the time for you to investigate—definitely—for your own particular profit
the advantages of one of these Machines. We have both these sizes in stock, and will
be very pleased to show you same if you drop in.
Sole Agents for Australia—
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED,
51-53 Druitt Street, Sydney; 60 Queen Street, Melbourne
WE CARRY A FULL STOCK OF ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 35. No. ]79G.
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 1914.
PIUCB Go.
LANGUID ECONOMY.
TH E BOSS: "I've had enough o f this! I've been paying you for 12 mo nths, and we haven’t advanced an inch.”
THE JOEFFEUR: “Jusso, sir; but look what I’ve saved in petrol!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“AustraliH for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosrnan, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES:
i City 2389.
\ City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
' (In Advance, Only.''
£1 Gs. Gd. per Annum, including Special
Christinas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week:
for a year. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to 2 he
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should, in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin, is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of M.S. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
.To Amateurs in Tilaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction- — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 583
2!)tli Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.— lE. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
4/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6sin.
x U/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage llates.
Single copies The Bulletin fregistered as a News-
paper): —Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 40z.,
Id., and Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 1914.
THE RISING OF POTTS AND SLURK.
The Federal election having almost arrived,
those eminent politicians, Potts and Slurk,
have arisen to explain at length how good
each of them is, and how bad both of them
are, and how the country is ruined, and
how it isn’t ruined yet but is going to be
almost immediately, unless Potts and Slurk
both get a commanding majority, and each
of them is rejected with just indignation by
a free and spontaneous community. The
above is a long and confused sentence, but
then party politics are also long and con-
fused, and even Chaos in all its glory
wasn’t arrayed anything like them. So far
ex-Prime Minister Fisher has announced
his policy, and the present but very tem-
porary Prime Minister Cook has stated his
propositions, and W. M. Hughes has en-
dorsed the remarks of Fisher, and other
politicians are girding up their loins to
endorse the remarks of Cook. But so fai
everybody has carefully avoided saying any-
thing heroic about the big questions of the
day, because the big questions are always
liable to split the party and lead to loss of
votes. On the other hand, small matters
relating to twopence can lie attacked without
splitting the party. The Australian Par-
liament had a period of modified energy
when it established the Defence system, but
the energy was so much modified that
it only rolled in children who had no votes
as the country’s defenders. It enjoyed a
period of mild or alleviated energy when it
founded the Commonwealth note issue, yet
couldn’t find courage to order the private
banks to keep the Federal notes in stock
and to hold a large proportion of their cash
reserves in Government paper. And there
was a spirit of moderate fervor when it was
seriously proposed to take over the State
debts, yet the fervor was so moderate that
nothing was taken over. Incidentally the
railways weren’t taken over by the Common-
wealth, nor was a uniform gauge established.
There was also much conversation regarding
the Beef Trust, but nothing has ensued up
to date.
* * * *
So far the financial doings of the Com-
monwealth have been fairly honest. It has
had a succession of Treasurers who didn’t
stagger humanity with their profligacy. It
has only possessed one King O’Malley, and
his cowboy hat and raving oratory are both
back numbers. It has only possessed one
Willie Kelly, which is good for its soul.
A certain honest plodding cautiousness has
marked most of its Governments’ doings,
but unhappily the Party system has got it
down. The Party system appears to get
the best of Governments down, and the
Potts of this party feels called upon once
every three years to say all he knows and a
great deal that he doesn’t know about the
Slurk of that party, while Slurk has to
unburden his whole soul concerning. Potts.
As a rule there are matters of vital im-
portance to be dealt with; but each crowd
is afraid to deal with them for fear of losing
votes, and denunciation helps to divert
attention.
So the two leaders denounce each other
in moderation for their neglect of the
Northern Territory, and one is about as
indefinite as the other. The Northern
Territory, and, in a less degree the northern
parts of Westralia and Queensland, con-
stitute the standing menace of Australia.
The Territory, with its high, cool tableland,
represents Australia’s best chance of settling
a large, prosperous, strenuous white com-
munity in the “innards” of this country.
By reason of its scanty population,, its lack
of railway connection with the big cities
and the more densely peopled regions, and
its nearness to Asia,, it also represents,
under present conditions, Australia’s worst
chance of preserving this continent for the
white race. And on the keeping of this
continent white depend all other things—
Bill’s “dirt money,” and the Public Debt,
and the Eight Hour Day procession, with its
banners, and the privilege of going on strike,
and the workman’s cheap railway ticket,
and the Beef Trust, and Bruce Smith’s
radiant belltopper, and Mary Ann’s even-
ing out, and the deficit, and the old-age pen-
sion, and the baby bonus, and the right to
walk on any side of the pavement, and the
football match, and the importing craze,
and A. G. lluie’s letters to the papers, and
the A.W.U., and the wowser, and the Par-
liamentary system, and the Party device,
and the privilege of Holman to cast asper-
sions at Meagher : also our religion, and
our Melbourne Cup, and our dreary, weary
Cook, and our slop clothe.s and Arbitration,
and everything else that is ours. All these
things we can enjoy while Australia belongs
to us, but if it ceases to belong to. us and
passes into the hands of a wholly alien race
we will enjoy just what the alien pleases,
and exactly how much will please him no
one can say. Possibly all he will leave us
will be the right to “doss” at the back of
the refuse bin. In modern, history there
is just one notable case in which a. European
race has been subject to an Asiatic one. and
it is on record that the Unspeakable Turk
was and is a very unpleasant, master. The
same thing may be said, in a less degree, of
the Arab who went before him, and of the
Senoy during his temporary supremacy in
a part of India, and of others.
The Potts and Slurk of Federal politics
are not, as already mentioned, wildly abusive.
In fact, they play the game in a fairly
respectable fashion. Neither calls the other
his loathsome and hopelessly diseased con-
temporary. Still the fact remains that one
must always be Potts to some extent, and
the other always Slurk within certain
limits. The easiest way to hunt for votes
lies in the exposure of the other man’s
failures, and under the party system the
hunt for votes is the beginning and middle
and end of politics. Also when there are
two lots of voters who imagine that their
interests are diametrically opposed, and the
polite Potts and the courteous Slurk are
equally in need of their votes, the party
system makes it necessary to steer a middle
course and be as non-committal as possible.
Consequently Prime Minister Cook says
nothing of the slightest importance about
the settlement and defence of the Northern
Territory, where Australia’s most urgent
danger is located. And ex-Prime Minister
Fisher says very little of importance. And
Fisher’s chief henchman, Hughes, says
about the same. And Cook, who says
nothing worth mentioning, and does nothing
at all, though he is the man who is sup-
posed to be in charge, complains about
the silence and reticence of Fisher. The
one thing needful is to develop the Territory
by connecting it with the big populations of
the South, and with that end in view the
Commonwealth is pledged to complete first
of all the short, straight line from Adelaide
and Port Augusta. But it is also harried by
people who desire the development to be
commenced by the construction of a much
longer and more devious line from Sydney
and Brisbane. It is essential to do some-
thing if Australia is to be saved from an
overwhelming danger, but there is support
to be lost if a decision is arrived at either
way. # , ,
So at present the two parties in Federal
politics agree on the same device. That is
to extend the Darwin-Pine Creek railway
southward so far as can be done without
declaring whether it will aim in the first
place at Adelaide or at Sydney—in other
words, without making undue haste to risk
the loss of support. Certainly there are
drawbacks about this method so far as the
interests of the country are concerned,
though as a matter of party tactics it is
good enough. If an invader secures posses-
sion of Darwin —the most isolated place of
any importance in Australia and the one
most convenient to an Asiatic enemy before
the transcontinental line is finished, then
the railway, right down to the gap where
things are incomplete, is his railway, and
an aid to conquest and annexation. On
the other hand, the railway that comes up
from the south is Australia’s line of defence
until it reaches the gap. If the transcon-
tinental is extended from the north, then,
until the day of completion, the line which
is offered to the enemy as a handy and secure
means of attack grows longer and longer.
If it is built from the south the line of
Australia’s defence grows longer and longer.
If war comes to pass before the great work
is finished it is at the gap where the two
ends of the public work don’t meet that the
matter will have to be contested. _
whether the invader will own 150 miles of
Australia or 1500 miles before he can be
brought to an argument depends on which
extremity the line is built from. In a ten-
tative sort of way it is hereby suggested that
the person who proposes starting the work
at the northern end should be hanged as a
traitor to Australia. To the Potts and
Slurk politicians and the Potts and
Slurk papers it may seem essential to
avoid, as long as possible, the brawls and
loss of support which are bound to happen
when the southern terminus of the first
transcontinental railway—the one on which
depends the defence of half Australia is
decided. But Australia comes first and
should be considered first. #
There is a tendency among easy-going
folk to profess that the danger of the ill-
populated, ill-defended and practically in-
accessible Northern Territory is a jest
and a bugbear. Yet the compulsory mili-
tary Defence scheme, which the Fisher party
devised and the Cook crowd now professes
to have devised, arose wholly from a convic-
tion that there is serious danger some-
where. So did the naval Defence scheme.
And inasmuch as the danger is likely to lie
in the worst protected part of the country,
and the part that is nearest to any possible
enemv of importance, the development or
the Territory is a matter which should
be removed from the squalid lanes and
alleys and by-ways of party politics. If
the transcontinental railway isn’t a matter
of vital importance, then the. army might
as well be disbanded as a political miscon-
ception. Supposing Australia wants an
army to defend it, then it is equally urgent
that there should be a road by which that
army can get to Australia —or at least to
the larcre section of it that is at present
disqualified for lack of means of access.
THE LAWYER’S BUGBEAR.
Last month The Bulletin urged the ad-
visability of amalgamating the two branches
of the legal profession in N. S. Wales. It
was mentioned, incidentally, that while amal-
gamation had succeeded in S. Australia it
had been a failure in Victoria, not on its
merits, but because the barristers had com-
bined against it. H. W. C. Simpson, a
Melbourne solicitor, wrote presently in an-
swer, as follows: —
I send herewith an extract from the Argus of
June 16 bearing on the subject of amalgamation. I
shall be interested in observing your com-
ments. As to amalgamation I will simply say
that it is a mere politician’s and pressman s
illusion. It is quite impracticable. You might
just as well try to amalgamate the doctor and
the chemist. The duties and work of barrister and
solicitor are widely different. No man up to the
present has been able to do both in a really com-
petent manner. I have been practising for many
years as a solicitor, and I know what I am writing
about. I might point out, also, that there are a
large number of University graduates with. good
degrees practising here and in England as solicitors
who might practise at the Bar, but do not do so.
The inference is that something more than mere
educational qualification is required to make a com-
petent advocate.
The Argus extract consisted of two letters
from E. F. Mitchell, K.C. The gist of
them was that the Victorian Bar had no ob-
jection to amalgamation; that the popular
notion that the barristers had laid themselves
out to discredit the system was a fallacy; and
that members of the Bar Association worked
in perfect amity with non-members and did
not seek for any sort of preference to Law
Unionists: —
The idea seems to have got abroad that counsel
on the roll will have nothing to do with the members
of the legal profession who practise as barristers and
solicitors combined (whom, for brevity, I will call
“general practitioners”). This is quite erroneous.
Counsel on the roll accept briefs from and advise
“general practitioners” in the same way, and on the
same terms, as they accept briefs from and advise
solicitors who practise exclusively as solicitors. In
fact, counsel on the roll make no distinction what-
ever betweeen “general practitioners” and solicitors
who practise exclusively as solicitors.
* * * *
As regards Mr. Mitchell’s contention, it
may be remarked that there is a wide differ-
ence, in many cases, between theory and
practice. Of course leading Victorian coun-
sel “make no distinction whatever between
‘general practitioners’ and solicitors who
practise exclusively as solicitors”- —in theory.
In theory the Australian barrister is an
almost quixotically high-minded person —one
who would rather strangle himself with his
own robes than besmirch the honor of his
profession. In fact the circumstance which
has operated chiefly to kill the usefulness of
the Victorian Amalgamation Law is the aver-
age barrister’s habit of being, in an ethical
sense, not one whit better than the average
solicitor or sharebroker or shopkeeper or
bookmaker. When one has said that the
Australian Bar has its fair share of unim-
peachable characters —its E. F. Mitchells,
Adrian Knoxes, Josiaii Symons and
Ernest Lambs—that institution has re-
ceived the highest tribute which can truth-
fully be paid to it. But it is far from being
a close preserve for saints, or even honest
men. In theory no reputable K.C. or junior
would condone a collusive divorce. In prac-
tice it is notorious that K.C.’s and juniors
have been guilty of this offence, well know-
ing all the circumstances ; and that they have
salved their alleged consciences by taking
larger fees than they would have otherwise
earned In theory no barrister lengthens a
case with the object of wringing more money
out of litigants. In practice this sort of
swindle is being perpetrated constantly. In
almost any given suit a fair idea of the finan-
cial standing of the parties may be arrived
at by calculating the number of days or
weeks over which their court row has ex-
tended. It is such considerations as these
which cause the public to scoff at Mr.
Mitchell’s contention that there is any rela-
tion between the theoretical “position of
counsel” in A ictoria and the actual attitude
of nine counsel out of 10 when they get down
to hard business.
* * * *
Let it be granted, as every unbiassed Vic-
torian does grant, that the Bar Association
and the Committee of Counsel have deliber-
ately defeated the Amalgamation scheme;
that the Bench is largely in sympathy with
them: and that the local solicitors are either
afraid to oppose them, or are so securely
established in practices of old standing as
not to want to, and there remains the con-
tention submitted by Mr. Simpson that
amalgamation is a foolish and impracticable
ideal anyhow. No reasons are ever ad-
vanced in support of this view. It is simply
pushed forward with the vague assertion
that anything different is “a pressman s
illusion,” or “quite impracticable” —just as
years ago Banks denounced Macarthttß
as an imbecile for wanting to introduce sheep
to Australia; and as, in later years, the
Western plains of N. S. Wales were held to
be barren deserts; and as, to-day, the
Northern Territory is claimed to be unfit for
white men to inhabit. As against the' mere
assertion that it is impracticable, there is
the hard fact that amalgamation is doing
satisfactorily in South Australia, no boycott
having been instituted against it there by the
profession. Also, wherever amalgamation, or
any variation of it, has been tried elsewhere
it has succeeded. In Ballarat and Bendigo
and in Maoriland solicitors do advo-
cates’ work, and do it well. Some
of N. S. Wales’s most capable crim-
inal advocates have been solicitors. Simi-
larly, of course, many barristers, while ill-
fitted for court work, might do excellently
as solicitors. When Mr. Simpson mentions
that “something more than educational quali-
fication is required to make a competent ad-
vocate” he misses the entire point: Indis-
putably advocates are born and not made.
Those’who hold with amalgamation merely
claim that when advocates have been born,
they shall not be silenced for the reason that
they happen to be solicitors. If amalgama-
tion were approached in a law-abiding spirit
by the legal profession of Victoria, a capable
advocate who was also a solicitor could go
into any court alone, conduct his case with
the minimum of expense to his client, and
have no social or professional unpleasantness
to fear as a result. _ Since amalgamation
has never been received in that spirit in
Victoria, we find there the old arrangement
of one or fnore K.C.’s on either side, sur-
rounded by a herd of inarticulate and often
entirely superfluous juniors—in brief, the
whole ruinously costly paraphernalia of the
British system. The legal profession does
not fight for this demented system because
it is jealous of the litigants’ financial or
other interests. The profession is not, and
never has been, that sort of altruist. It
hates amalgamation because effective amal-
gamation means cheap law; and cheapness
is the last infamy in the eyes of those who
purvey law.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Arbitration and Unionism.
Figures show what Arbitration has done for
trades-unionism. In 1901 there were only
97,174 trades-unionists in Australia. In
1906 there were 175,000; and at the end
of 1912, 433,234. N. S. Wales, having had
the longest acquaintance with the system,
is easily first, with 192,626; while Tas-
mania, which up to the end of 1912 had no
local Arbitration law, possessed only 8655.
Up to the time of the establishment of the
first Arbitration Court in Sydney, the Vic-
torian figures were far ahead of those of the
Ma State. Then unions like that of the
Shop Assistants’ became possible and
were formed, and others which had been
struggling for bigger rolls, and achieving
nothing to make membership alluring, sud-
denly became live bodies. Every extension
of the principle since then has witnessed a
further inrush. The half-hostile attitude of
Unionism to arbitration is, therefore, curi-
ous, though it is understandable to those
who know the inside workings. Each new
union, as it grew strong, borrowed the
scorn of the old union (which could —or
thought it could —exact conditions by the
strength of its organisation) for the newer
“Arbitration Court union.” Like the
hobbledehoy who is anxious to show that he
is a real man by adopting the vices of his
father, the Arbitration-fostered union
yearned to get rid of the reproach of being
an “Arbitration Court union,” and show
itself a “real” trades union. This tendency
has made strikes over quite trivial matters
common amongst bodies which gained
strength only because of the existence of
Arbitration, and the unions concerned have
been quite proud of their ructions. By-and-
bye, when these unions get beyond the hobble-
dehoy stage, the Arbitration principle will
probably have an easier time ; meanwhile the
spectacle is seen of unions which gained im-
proved conditions without any Arbitration
principle accepting the new order with cheer-
fulness, whilst organisations which would
never have existed but for the thing they
rail at, talk industrial stoush in large quan-
tities, and profess a magnificent contempt
for industrial laws.
V>
The Eternal Kaleidoscope.
A distracted anti-Defenceite interrupted
one of Senator Millen’s speeches last week
with the cry: “What have we to defend?”
It was a common theory, a decade ago, both
amongst Anarchists and in ultra-“ Liberal”
circles, that Australia had nothing that was
worth defending. Many a time, during the
last drought period, has the writer heard
folks who are now extremely affluent con-
tend that the Commonwealth was a Social-
istic dust heap, safe from invasion by reason
of its arid worthlessness. A hollow laugh
of scorn greeted the suggestion _ that the
country might appeal to the Asiatic races.
The idea of any rational Jap. preferring
drought-smitten Australia to the picturesque


nd of the Geisha gave the anti-Defenceite
■j P er iod the tired feeling. (In those
ajs, of course, it was taken as read that
- ustiaha would always he blighted by
roughts, 311 st as to-day it is assumed by
e same class of people that no good can
rw e^°- Ut - of the Northern Territory, and
J~5. Jt 1S t° be peopled it must be, for the
ost part, by unclothed savages.) The
ydpej Telegraph was not behindhand in
oming forward with this point of view in
ie past. Also it was a very valiant anti-
L etenceite. But in its issue of the 9th inst.
t took it all back. It publicly swallowed
conscription.” It extended the mite of
riendshi|i to the local navy or ‘‘mosquito
neet body. It acknowledged the genuine-
ness of the Japanese menace. A fragment:
* f *f e n p f° ple generally thought with the dispara-
bv nnW,w enCe ' a complete would be made
° ur , government and conditions some
’ ,„ I ; t <lV l '? ry t L t T lklng resu hs One possible out-
ouslv bna of those who l‘ ad contemptu-
harnp-ia ’ V Wh ? bave we to defend?” would be
the P i t 0 ricksba ' vs /nd made to canter about
iri <^ lee^ s drwing behind them citizens prominent
difWnt C ‘- lg: the new order of things under a flag as
S e " 19 appearance as in significance from that
"Inch Australia is now under.
It was a splendid and comprehensive con-
version, and leads this paper to look, with
a good deal of confidence, for a Telfgr\ph
pronouncement along the following lines in
the course of a year or so:—-
a . Ve , bllle Patience, and never have had, with
the unthinking demagogues, who assail the principle
of Preference to Unionists. Liberalism as the
party, par excellence, of Law and Order can do no
the 6 oll han h °i!- i un s inchi "gly by Preference. Under
ouslv hv trt 0 ° rder of , thh'g s < fostered so assidu
tratf by , tbe Tisher and Other Socialistic adminis-
trations, the Master was, industriously speaking at
and ITY ° f the “an. When a lock out oemured
and the law was put in motion, the employee’s assets
fine 0 n, Va i! a i k \ f ?'' purpoBes of distraint, lie paid his
fi n le k- 01 he i had hls business sold over his head Not
union 8 iv. el n ngi " R as often as 1101 to no
union, 01 if they did happen to be unionists being
laugh Yt The 8 law ""'r'’ 111 ’ th ° y W , ero in a POSh'on to
JhfJh 1 U 1 1 ,nes were imposed on strikers
were * meted ! e . C ° vered : ternls of imprisonment
ere meted out which were never served It was
at this stage that Liberalism, standing, as ever oil
‘‘This fhinl f equities >„ stepped forth and said
this thing must cease.” In the same hreodle
01d r Affe°Pm irit in p W ! lic i, it: . originated Arbitration,
a Pensions, Early Closing legislation, the White
Australia principle and National Defence it nro-
fs^Bifl 0 XT Wi n ° W f Idst , oric Preference to Uidon-
lsts Hill. Jhe logic of that measure is ns unassail-
flrrt a % ,ts f lnher< i nt i ustice - Its insistence that the
who wil °flnn3V hoUld . bG given to those toilers
effector® ,fr al members of a union had the
effect of putting every union in funds. A strike iii
“branch of the railway service led up to the famous
case, It. v. Luggage Destroyers’ Union. Judgment
vas given against the men, and fines were
iZ B In , the bad old pre-Preference days, they
6Vade , pa - vment 1,1 vain. The Court
attached the mens money in the hands of
union. Their debt to anmitraged community was
discharged to the uttermost farthing. That episode
herulded the beginning of the end of the strike evil
What true Liberal shall say, at this time of day that
e are to go back to the bad old condition of
affairs which marked the Socialistic era? The
lonely Labonte cry of “Down with Preference ”
heard last night at Prime Minister Watt’s meeting
Wl s? no Response in this community. Wc
have done with such Socialistic fallacies for ever
The Telegraph may not state the ease for
Preference in those exact words, but that it
will presently voice the general sense of the
above is as sure as that it will, in due
accept the views that Canberra is a
nnd fbil'rt? at' S|® ca ß ltal of 9 continent,
and that the Northern Territory is a price-
less asset from a white settler’s standpoint.
About Elections and Electors.
“L’Fou” propounds a scheme:—
ri„3? e e l ec |j ons , are a(: hand, and through debt and
wntv and dl s°, lder , and broken pledges and unstarted
work, a maddened yell comes from a big section in
Victoria saying it will have elective Ministries, with
the initiative and referendum, even if it has to tear
whv J^t COOKS halr to F et them - While tidying up,
why not sweep away the crazy geographical boun-
daries of electorates and substitute th e P division of
the people according to their work and interests as
suggested in ‘‘The Great State”? We want a
representative Government, and is it possible for
any P n od an M.P. to represent all the
manifold interest of mine-owners and employees
big squatters and little farmers, doctors, bottle-ohs’
domestic servants, barristers, manufacturers, mothers’
Poets, etc., each with separate souls
and politics jammed untidily into his electorate? I
suggest that every union, from the British
Medical Association to the China teapot-lid makers
should send a separate delegate to Parliament, but
I m sure the people could be more justly’ and
accurately classified according to their occupations
than under the present system. Besides, it would
compel a person to have, or say he had an oecupa-
*lP? before he got the vote. With such a franchise
and the improvement in the governing machine above
mentioned, the voice of the people would get a
chance of being heard distinctly, instead of sound
ing as it mostly does now, like a fight in a ChTnese
cookshop blended with a collision between two
"nent Tha^ 1 - 0 ’ Z mean women in
aniament. lhat is, if the home-and-mother iob
(numerically the greatest trade group in Australia!
got direct representation for once in its life. }
Every system of Parliamentary represent*!-'
tion is rough and ready, and there isn’t one
at which bricks can’t be thrown. There are
“rPmi’f” reasons for throwing bricks at
T ou dont > for instance, get all
the hat merchants represented because yon
give the hat merchants a member to them-
selves. David Storey, who sells hats in
Sydney, is a virulent Freetrader; Sam
Mauger Who sells hats in Melbourne, is a
thoroughgoing Protectionist. Give news-
paper editors a member, and either the Age
or the Argus man is going to have mighty
little representation in Parliament. Even
in trade matters you couldn’t get a common
policy from the representatives of one trade
The miners would have two or three mem-
bers. One or more of them, representing
the coal-miners, would stand fast for piece-
mnrkW wa nt to be paid by the ton.
The \\ estralian gold miners and the silver-
lead miners would fight to the last tailing,s-
dump against contract or piece-work of any
?°rt- , In any case, the idea that a man’s
job should wholly govern his politics is
fundamentally wrong. Why should Billy
Hughes have the same opinions and aspira-
tions as Billy Irvine because they boOi
happen to be barristers? What has it got
to do with the big questions ahead of Aus-
tralia whether a man earns his crust by
shaving wood or shaving chins ? When we
are dealing with small matters, like wages
and hours of labor, classification according
to the jobs that men do is necessary: it is
no use drafting men into the Arbitration
Court according to the suburb they live in,
boxing the barber and the carpenter in one
mob because they happen to be neighbors.
But. the National Parliament isn’t an Arbi-
tration Court or a Wages Board : when they
go out to elect an M.H.R. or a Senator thev
do it, not by virtue of the fact that they
chase the wolf from the door with a shaving
brush or a jack plane, but because they are
citizens; they vote not by virtue of their
trade, but by virtue of their manhood or their
womanhood. And to cut them up, for con-
venience of handling, into geographical
groups seems the simplest and most obvious
and least expensive method. There are no
doubt dozens of other methods. You might,
for instance, divide them up according to the
size they take in boots or in beer, according
to the pubs they frequent, or the pews they
sit in or don’t sit in on Sundays : but none
of these methods are worth while. Aus-
tralia has spent too much time already dis-
cussing the tools and neglecting the job, and
all these proposals for frilled franchises and
fancy electoral systems are mostly waste of
good energy and breath and valuable
moments.
The Law in Sentimental Mood.
Yet another Sydney constable was sent to
gaol last week. The evidence showed that
he had gone, in the early hours of the morn-
ing, to the house of a law-abiding resident of
Ultimo, hammered at the front door and clam-
ored for jewellery. When nothing of a pawn-
able nature was forthcoming, he smote the
householder severely upon the jaw an'd else-
where. Placed on his trial, this uproarious
guardian of the peace sought to establish
that his victim was a perjurer and the vio-
lated domicile a house of ill-fame. For this
assortment of villainy the magistrate handed
out a sentence of three months —the same
term as a hard-up family man was pro-
vided with the other day for purloining a
handful of saveloys. Also the usual guff
was voiced in court on the subject of a
bright young policeman’s career being ruined
in a moment of boyish impulsiveness, or
words to that effect. According to this
paper’s unemotional way of regarding things,
the proceedings wefe all wrong. .It is time
the Law in Sydney ceased to behave, when
called upon to sentence criminal policemen,
as though it were treading a sort of second
Calvary. It should be joyful when it smells
out a policeman who is a drunkard, a black-
mailer and a perjurer, just as the doctor is
joyful when- he discovers the drain that is
responsible for an epidemic of diphtheria.
The conviction of a policeman for crimes
committed ‘while in the execution of what
should have been his duty is no occasion
either for apologetics or for absurd leniency
on the part of the Bench. On the contrarv.
Just as heavy sentences are prescribed for
forgery and embezzlement, on the grounds
that these crimes are easy to commit and
difficult to detect, so the Law should do its
very worst in the case of erring policemen—
the policeman having better opportunities
than any other member of the community to
commit crime with immunity from discoverv.
The painful position of a judge or magis-
trate, in the presence of a convicted con-
stable, is easily understandable. . The man
on the bench and the man in the dock may
have been closely associated for years. It
is almost as though one club-member were
obliged to sentence another - . But there are
other parties to the ur pleasantness. Thire
are the law-abiding John Hops whose char-
acters are more or less besmirched as often
as the drunkards and blackmailers in their
midst besmirch the honor of the whole pro-
fession. Also there are the members of the
public who stand to have their property
seized and their reputations ruined unless
the type of constable that has been before the
Sydney courts of late is severely discouraged.
And, after all, these two sections have as
much right to be considered as the feelings
of any magistrate.
Looking for a New Alias.
“Max Adams” :
Talking to that collection of whisker, stomach
and political nonentity which is called the Annual
Conference of the Liberal Association of N. S. Wales,
the futile Charles Gregory Wade last week made a
suggestion. The suggestion was one which will be
thoroughly familiar to persons with a discreditable
past; it was, that the Liberal Association should
change its name. Briefly, the alleged Liberals of
N. S. Wales find themselves badly in need of a new
alias. The aroma round the old name is so strong
that there is no suppressing it, and Wade sees no
hope of escaping the police except by ordering for
his party a fresh set of visit'ing cards, with the
prayer that nobody will recoenise the old political
magsman under the new moniker. In Sydney just
now there is running a play (unless it ceases to run
as this paper goes to press) in which a person named
Raven alleges that his name is Adack ; the very
good and sufficient reason being that the embezzle-
ment of some thousands of pounds is associated by
Scotland Yard with the former name. And if
Adage should be hunted, the name would become
Pumblechook or Schmitzerlein, or sopiething else.
But the man carrying the assortment of names re-
mains the same old crook.
It is significant that the persons now calling
themselves Liberals, as well as their immediate ances-
tors in politics, should find it necessary to look for
a new alias every few years. Their true and proper
name, of course, is Patman, and their profession is
that of the reactionary, though a few of them prefer
simple stagnation. At one time they were called
Tory, which is a name of abusive origin, but never-
theless dignified by many great historical traditions
in the country of its earlier use. In England there
were generations of men of high intelligence and
considerable patriotism who proudly bore that name.
But the brigade of greasy Vested interest barrackcrs
who were so described in Australia made it a name
so charged with prior convictions that any mm
called a Tory would foam at the mouth, deny the
charge with cursing and swearing, throw heavy pieces
of firewood, and institute proceedings for criminal
libel. That is what a name is worth after this poli-
tical party—the same old party—has done with it.
When “Tory” stank so much that the man who
drives a cart by night had to be hired to carry it
awav, the blessed name Conservative was adopted.
There is nothing dishonorable in that word. It
implies too cautious a temperament for sufficient
progress, yet a man may be possessed of conserva-
tive instincts and still remain a valuable politician.
But it turned out that the only things which our
Australian Conservatives wanted to conserve were a
few money interests. They conserved the foreign
manufacturer and the mostly-foreign importer; they
conserved the supply of cheap nigger laborers (though
they destroyed the individual niggers cheerfully
enough by over-work and disease) ; they conserved
the ragshop sweater, and the coffin-ship, and the
slum. But they never dreamed of conserving the
Australian man or the Australian child. In per-
petuating all the horrors they saved from attack,
they didn t exactly say that they were blessings.
They only affirmed that the Time Was Not Yet
Ripe. They are still affirming it; th )ugh they are
no longer called either Conservatives nr Tories.
It is a tribute to the marvellous incapacity the
almost incredible stagnancy of this party, that it
has managed to cover with mud and contempt so
ju 6 a , as Liberal. In politics this word is
thus defined by Webster, a careful person whom The
Bulletin has cited on the subject before:—
“Not bound by orthodox tenets or established
torms, independent in opinion; not conservative;
friendly to great freedom in the constitution or
administration of government; having tendency
toward democratic or republican, as distinguished
from monarchical or aristocratic forms; as, liberal
thinkers; liberal Christians; the Liberal party.”
t w bich definition you could accomplish at least
lu times as much political and social reform as
any political party in Australia lias yet achieved or
attempted. If there were 20 such Liberals acting
together in any Australian Parliament they could
go to the next election and come back with an un-
conquerable majority. But even so good a name
sn ?? lls ®° badly, and looks so dilapi-
dated, that the blunt-sensed C. G. Wade himself sees
that its disgrace and disrepute are something to run
afopT fr ° m ‘ S ° he advises the P ar ty to get a new
tJ e thinks the name of the Tory-Conservative-Lib-
eral-Adipose party might be “The Democratic Party”
as though Sodom should be renamed Zion, or on
the railway lines of Eternity the signboard at Hell’s
Gate station should be repainted “Nazareth.” Thus
wouM lost souls find their way about. This Same
Old Party is about as like Democracy as it is like
government by archangels. It is still the troglodyte
howling* against the revolutionaries who began to
™ abe buildings with walls. Too many other aliases
yvould have to be found if the change were to be
imposed on a credulous people. Wade would have
to be renamed Gracchus; the queer, gesticulating
Richard Arthur would be Belisarius ; and Henley
3 be Aristogeiton. And these are things which
nobody would believe.
- - ———
Mrs. Grundy Gets Counted Out.
Madame Grundy received something more
li an ,ra a sn ?. ac k * n face last week when
the Council of Melbourne University decided
to offer the Ormond chair of Music to
Marshall Hall. It was as the result of
his publication of a foolishly “profane” and
artlessly immoral” book of verses that the
boisterous Melbourne apostle of music lost
his University billet and started an oppo-
sition Conservatorium many years ago. The
Argus, on behalf of stodgy Respectability,
raised an outcry against the unseemliness
of Hall’s doctrines and suggestions. Had
he not written :
Hectic night peers forth, as a shamefaced maiden
Fearing peers, and towards the Beloved’s chamber
Noiselessly glideth!
And had he not also declared:—
Hideous scarecrows that flap in the wind,
Are your Jew-gods, to frighten the weak and the
blind.
And could Mrs. Grundy laugh tolerantly at
the idea of blind citizens being frightened by
flapping scarecrows? So much was said
and written about the indiscretion of Mar-
shall Hall’s feeble verses that he resigned
his position, or didn’t apply to be reappointed
when his term of engagement was up. Any-
how the University Council, or a majority
of it, was content to let Marshall Hall
go, which was gratifying to those Argus-
minded citizens of whom he had said :
I must confess, to my. distress,
That I have many foes,
And every day for them I pray,
With thumb unto my nose.
Had his professional labors in music not
been vastly more successful than his ama-
teur strivings in poetry the retirement of
Marshall Hall would not have mattered
much to the University. Another professor
was appointed to the Ormond chair, and the
chief disciples of its previous occupant
engaged him to manage a Conserva-
torium, where he gradually lessened in im-
portance until a year or two ago, when he
went to England, and seemed likely to stay
there. But in the meantime a movement
had been started by Lady Northcote for
the endowment of a Permanent Orchestra,
and the endowers had entrusted their coin
and confidence to the Marshall Hall
party. The Orchestra Fund froze after a
while, but still it was a considerable sum
of cash in hand, so the musical world de-
plored the fact that nothing seemed likely
to come of it, owing to Marshall Hall
having lost his high official position at the
instance of Mother Grundy. That was how
matters stood a month ago. Then the
Ormond professor at the University (Pet-
erson) passed to the musical world Above,
and the opportunity presented itself of get-
ting Hall back to Melbourne in his original
representative capacity. The sec. of the
Orchestra Fund wrote to the University
Council, and 1977 other people petitioned
the Council in favor of the impetuous bard
who used to pray for his foes with his thumb
uplifted to his nose. The University bosses
were practically desired as a body to re-
nounce their allegiance to Mrs. Grundy,
and vote Marshall Hall back into his old
chair, without being informed whether
he had announced his willingness to
take it under any circumstances, or
his unwillingness to do so unless he
was officially invited. The obviously
correct procedure for the Council would
have been to advertise the vacancy in
a formal manner, and then give it to Mar-
shall Hall if he applied for it. That
would have been a slap in the mouth for
Mrs. Grundy. To appoint him without
asking for his written application was to hit
Mrs. G. on the knock-out point, or rather to
kick her on the place she sits down upon.
The resolution was carried by 10 to 7.
♦
.7. F. Archibald, one of the founders of
Tiie Bulletin, sold his proprietary interest
to other proprietors last week ; and thus his
long connection with the paper ended. For
nearly 22 years, with one short break, he was
the Editor, living for the paper and putting
into it his pungent personality. But the
establishing of a paper demands flesh and
blood, and in the late ’9o’s Mr. Archibald’s
impaired health often failed him. Never-
theless he continued to give his invaluable
services to The Bulletin until 1902, when
he drifted out of his chair, and the man who
had been for 15 years principal leader-writer,
and had supplied the paper with most of its
politics, succeeded him as Editor. Thence-
forward for 12 years Mr. Archibald retained
his connection only as one of the proprietors.
With the breaking of that link the owner-
ship returns exclusively to the men who
take a personal part in the production of
the paper; and the sincere good wishes of
every one of them follow the great Chief
of other days into his retirement.
“Peter C.”: The appointment of the Im-
perial German Consul at Brisbane to the
Q. Leg. Council raises some interesting
points. As a Leg. Councillor, the excellent
Dr. Hirsciifeld is eligible for Ministerial
office, and in any case he is in the way of
getting whatever information he may want
as to Government policy and administra-
tion. A Consul is, in the nature of things,
a professional observer appointed for the
special purpose of communicating to the
Government which employs him all matters
affecting, or likely to affect, the interests of
his country. Queensland contains a con-
siderable German population, many of
whom hold themselves ostentatiously apart
from Australian interests and sympathies.
In the possible event of serious trouble be-
tween Germany and England during the next
few years, these foreign communities would
be a troublesome and indigestible element in
Australian military activities. The des-
tined purpose of the German navy is clearly
that of serving as the ultimate argument in
a_ policy of commercial and colonial aggran-
disement. All over the world England stands
in the way of German trade expansion, and
the only effective method of getting her out
of the road is that of stoush. The position
for Australia is not at all simplified by the
appointment of an officer of the Imperial
German Government as a member of a State
Parliament. Futile as State Governments
are, some sort of co-operation with them will
be necessary in war-time. If “the Day” ever
eventuates —that “Day” of the downfall of
England to which every loyal German officer
is expected to drink —Australians may have
reason to recollect the action of the Denham
Government in appointing the professional
inquiry agent of a potentially dangerous
enemy to a position where he can pick up
any information which may filter through
to the State from the Defence authorities.
The old rule of “Love your neighbor, but
don’t pull down your fence,” seems to apply
very appositely in this matter.
“The Old Soldier”: One of the best jests
of the month was Senator Millen’s “Mobil-
isation Instructions for Rifle Clubs.” This
strange Defence Minister does not under-
stand, evidently, that the vast majority of
club members, being civilians, who are under
no legal obligation to be made into soldiers,
cannot be subjected to military discipline.
And they have evidently no intention what-
ever of turning themselves into soldiers at
the behest of Millen, or any other (so far
as they are concerned) irresponsible citizen.
As one of the daily papers, which approves
of Millen, put it: —-
The feeling amongst riflemen is that club captains
are to be required to do work- that, in their opinion,
should be done by paid military- clerks.
That is where Millen’s trouble comes in.
These folks cannot, or will not, for some good
or bad reason, submit to drill and discipline.
At the same time they like to carry arms, and
have a fancy for rifle-shooting as a sport, just
as others have a fancy for golf or tennis.
If they won’t go to drill, there is no earthly
sense in Millen trying to drive them un-
trained into the ranks. They would be
worse than useless there, not only because
they are unwilling, but because they have
never been taught to do what they will be
wanted to do there.
The Party Game.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
defence affairs wait.
PARTY POLITICS FIRST.
Cabinet consideration of the report by General
lan Hamilton on the military forces of the Com-
monwealth, it is understood, will not be practicable
till after the Federal elections. Ministers will be
too busy electioneering to give the time required.
—Melbourne news item.
Tiiky are drilling men in millions in the
teeming colored North,
As is the modern Asiatic’s way,
Each hour another soldier, armed, equipped
and trained steps forth,
Jo take his part in any coming fray.
l»ut, down in \Vhite Australia, they are much
more up to date:
'Preservation's not a primal law.
’’ hile party politicians rage, Defence lies iu
the grate,
Concealed beneath an avalanche of Jaw.
1 lie dockyards of the Yellow Men are work-
ing overtime;
All day the tireless hammers rise and fall;
And slowly from that atmosphere of toil and
sweat and grime,
Uprises Something which is worth it all.
i lie sturdy White Australian makes as little
as he can;
lie has no time to spare for building
boafs —
He being, for the greater part, a frantic
1 arty Man,
And hence absorbed in chasing after votes.
While ironworks are languishing from
Cairns to distant Perth,
And rifles ai ‘ e im P ol 'ted by the ton,
W hile good Australian horses leave for
every port on earth,
The folk whose emblem is the Rising Sun
Are doing well those things which white
men taught them to achieve;
And through it all the howl of Smith,
M.P.,
Is heard remarking frenziedly that Labor
persons thieve—
A futile sort of howl, it seems to me.
Ihe land is full of panting, office-famished
Joseph Cooks,
Well-dowered with a talent for abuse,
And skilful hands at picturing the rival
gang as crooks.
The trouble is they have no earthv use
For anything but wholly pointless Billings-
gate and skite,
And bogus grief and pain and angered
cries,
A tragic fact when yellow men are toiling
day and night
At those big jobs which folks like Cook
despise.
How admirable it would be if someone could
contrive
To dynamite, or burst, or stun, or fell
The pestilential Party Game which poli-
ticians strive
With fatal zest to keep alive and well.
When legislators worship Votes, and disre-
gard the State,
And things are peaceful, it is fairly well;
But when the foeman starts to kick the
Nation’s hingeless gate,
The Game has but one sequel—namely,
Tlell.
N.S.W.
ELCCTIVE MINISTRIES.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N,S.W,
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS-From 11/6 Day;
£3 I Os. Week.
THE'DUDLEY” ,
CON CERTINA
ORGAN-TONED CONCERTINAS IN
HANDSOME BOXES.
No. 4. Rosewood Style Tops, 10 Ger-
man Silver Keys, 8-fold Bellows, post
free 10/6
No. 5. Rosewood Style Tops, with
Trumpet Holes, 10 Bone Keys, 8-fold
Bellows, with Clasp, post free, 15/-
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
your storekeeper for “Dudley” Instruments
or write direct to —
272 LIT. COLLINS STMELBOURNE
WHEN "OUT OF SORTS" take
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
“fruit laxative” at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of “California Syrup of
Figs.” There is no need to put up with these
things until to-morrow, waiting for bedtime
to take medicine. “California Syrup of Figs”
will begin to do you good the moment you
take it —at any hour —and cause no discom-
fort. This pleasant-tasting, refreshing fruit
laxative cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps
away all accumulations of undigested food,
and stimulates the liver to assist in relieving
the bowels. By evening the tongue will be
clear again and the overflow of bile swept
away: you will be yourself again, with a
good appetite and digestion. This is the
medicine which does such wonders for chil-
dren of all ages ; but it is every bit as good
for grown-up people, and there are full direc-
tions for every age with the bottle. Take
care to buy the genuine, as there are imita-
tions on the market. Ask for “California
Syrup of Figs,” and look for the name and
trade mark of the “California Fig Syrup Co.”
All leading chemists sell “California, Syrup of
Figs,” 1/1$ and 1/9 per bottle.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty’s “Gipsy Love.”
ADELPiu “Mr. Wu.”
Little Theatre “Sweet Lavender.”
'll void Mclntoshs \aucleville Co. *
National Theatre .... Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer's I’icturts.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
Town Hall Paul Dufault Concerts.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Yeoman of the Guard.”
King’s...; Leroy, Talma & Bosco.
Royal “Officer 666.”
Princess’s “The Colleen Bawn.”
llvoLi Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West s Pictures.
Majestic ..Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
I* IJoU Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
ATiysNjEUM Hall :. Repertory Theatre Plays.
St. Peter’s Hall The Fireflies.
When a vicar engages a new butler, and
that butler turns out to be Christ, things
are bound to happen in the vicarage.
Not that Christ does not buttle beautifully,
but he disarranges all the souls of his em-
ployers and their relations. The yicar, it is
true, has a varied collection of relations:
there is liis brother who is the celebrated
Bishop of Benares; there is another brother
who is a licensed drain-investigator and cer-
tificated scavenger of cesspools; there is his
niece, the daughter of the drain-explorer;
and there is his wife’s brother, the Bishop
of Lancashire. The plumbing arrangements
of his church, too, are so bad that his con-
gregation can’t stand the smell, and prefer
the open-air meetings of a hard-working
atheist. He prayed for help in raising the
necessary funds for repairs, and Manson,
the new butler, arrived. Then the things
began to happen. To Mary, the vicar’s niece,
he explains that he is really the famous
Bishop of Benares; to the drainman lie is a
Socialistic comrade; to the vicar’s wife he
is a most disconcerting but picturesque but-
ler; and to the Bish of Lancashire he is a
most unbusinesslike bishop. Manson, the
servant in the house, becomes its master for
10 minutes. The Bishop of Lancashire is
sent packing, with a suggestion that he will
meet Manson “hereafter” ; the vicar is made
to bring the drainman and his daughter (the
vicar’s niece) together; the blasphemous
delver in muck is converted from his hatred
of his sanctimonious brother into an heroic
zest for drain excavation; the vicar himself
tears off liis black coat and his collar that
buttons behind, and sets forth with his
brother, the seeker of cesspools, to clean up
the main sewer beneath the church. It is
an exciting 10 minutes.
* * * *
This remarkable allegorical play, “The
Servant in the House,” by C. R. Kennedy,
was admirably produced by the Sydney Re-
pertory Society, at its theatre, on Monday
evening, the first night of a six-nights’ sea-
son. The play is a morality in which poetry
and broad humor and solemnity and the most
brutal realism of speech are cunningly
mingled. There are passages of the finest
allegory; there is a breakfast eaten by Man-
son, his Grace of Lancashire and the drain
gentleman that is almost farce; there are
pathos and drama, situations and sanctity.
The construction of the plaj’, too, is remark-
able. At the beginning of each act the char-
acters are found in exactly the same situa-
tion as that on which the curtain of the
previous act fell. The play could be played
straight through without an interval: the
story occupies exactly the time it takes to
display it upon the stage.
* * * *
The cast is an admirable one. Harry
Diver plays Manson on the traditional lines
on which Christ has been popularly con-
ceived—a gentle yet commanding personality,
in the garb of the Oriental. The actor’s sin-
cerity, without any histrionic tricks, gives
him always the centre of interest —a remark-
able performance, coming from one remem-
bered chiefly now for a long succession of
melodramatic villains. Norman Zions looks
and acts the part of the Vicar with convin-
cing earnestness. His Bish of Lancashire, in
the hands of Gilbert Howell, is a delightful
comedy figure. F. Robert Forster, as the
licensed sewer-expert, fails in his expression
of pathos, but is convincing in his earnest-
ness, and shows a fine conception of comedy.
His enthusiastic account of the horrors of
the sewer, which ends under the chancel
in a burial vault that has not been brought
under the notice of the Sanitary Inspector
for 762 years, is almost thrilling, and his
frequent oaths are delivered with zest. Miss
Agnes Keogh and Miss D. Dowland, as the
vicar’s wife and his niece, are perfectly
placed in difficult parts. The play (written,
by the way. before Jerome’s “The Passing
of the Third Floor Back”) is produced by
Arthur Styan. '
;J;
Ninety per cent, talk, three per cent, tab-
leaux and the rest evenly divided between
intervals and acting—that is “Mr. Wu,”
which opened at the Adelphi on Saturday
night. When there’s that much talk it is
only reasonable to ask that it shall at least
be intelligible. In “Mr. Wu” it isn’t, and
the worst offenders are the two specially-im-
ported “originais,” W. F. Grant (Mr. Wu)
and Miss May Congdon. Mr. Wu (Wu Li
Chang), who “has been educated at Oxford
and speaks English perfectly,” is a weari-
some old Chow who tctlks revenge and ances-
tors until the house realises that the ances-
tois escaped a lot by dying early. His “per-
fect English” is a series of grunts and yaps
that might be almost anything, and only half
of it is understandable. The local contribu-
tions, Miss Esther Mitchell, Reginald Wyke-
ham and Cyril Mackay, tower over him, and
Miss Mitchell, as Wu’s daughter, is the pick
of the three.
* * * *
. The plot, partly gathered from an occa-
sional intelligible yap from Mr. Wu, and
partly supplied by imagination, is this: The
son of an English shipping merchant in
China and Miss Wu throw mud on the
family’s honor between 6 and 7 p.m. (the
play starts at 8). The young man visits
pa’s house. Pa unexpectedly returns. The
Englishman is kidnapped and Wu begins to
seek revenge. For the most part he finds
it right off the stage. His secret agents
scuttle the merchant’s finest ship (some-
where near the stage door) and incite the
cwlie wharf-laborers to revolt. lie strangles
his erring daughter (a silent and invisible
strangle as far as the “house” is concerned).
The merchant (Gregory) and his wife sus-
pect Wu, and, with an eye to further vil-
lainy, Wu accepts their invitation to help
in the search for the merchant’s son. Mrs.
Gregory is invited to his house, and she is
trapped, too. Here beginneth Act Three;
and, as Act Three is the most wearisome of
the whole show, it is passed over with merely
a remark that at the tail-end, Mrs. Greg,
secretly poisons her tea, intending to drink
it; but Wu, as a sort of compliment to her,
and no doubt to the audience, takes it in-
stead, and joins the ancestors.
* * * *
The English principals, William F. Grant
and May Congdon, as Mr. Wu and Mrs.
Gregory, may do better in a play which
gives them an opportunity for some acting.
Of the rest of the cast the three already men-
tioned stand out most prominently, though
there was little for them to do either —little,
that is, except talk. Among the minor
characters F. Hughes, as a coolie and would-
be incendiary, gets honorable mention, though
in his case, too, whatever the bad man does
he does where the house can’t see it.
$
“Gipsy Love” still persists at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney.
** * *
There is nothing a woman likes better than
“a good cry,” provided a manly shoulder is
adjacent and available. The Criterion
Theatre does not guarantee the manly shoul-
der, but it does the good cry. “Madame X,”
the monsoonal drama at that damp theatre,
is raining to good business.
“MR. WU” AT SYDNEY ADELPHI.
Mr. Wu (William Grant) demonstrates
that an English University education will
make even a Chinaman “ swank.”
Bunty’s strings are pulling full houses to
the Itoyal (Sydney) these nights, and the
Moffats and E. J. Carroll (who induced
them to visit this continent) are on a pay-
ing wicket. Carroll’s entry into Australian
management with three shows running
simultaneously (“Bunty Pulls the Strings,”
“The Rosary” and Le Roy, Talma and
Bosco) has been welcomed with the well-
lined hand of the public. Which is a sign
that he who runs, or even crawls, may
decipher.
Maud Allan, who, it has been announced,
received doctor’s orders to continue resting
an injured knee and was thus unable to re-
appear last Saturday at the Palace. (Syd-
ney), is billed to make a start again this
Saturday. The musical Cherniavsky family
will assist in the good work.
* * * *
Hugh Buckler’s South African play, “The
Master of Angerstroom,” is not long for this
world. The play that depends for its exist-
ence upon the happy chance that the drama-
tist christened his chief character by a name
that can be played on a piano makes its exit
on Friday evening. On Saturday the Little
Theatre will see the company in Pinero’s
“Sweet Lavender,” a play that belongs to the
Pinero period when he wrote comedies and
had not discovered Ibsen and the problem
play.
£ ifc X
Tenor Paul Dufault is coming to Sydney
this week, at the head of his own company,
for a farewell season at the Town Hall,
commencing on Saturday. His tour has
been a success, and his next Saturday’s con-
cert will be his 113th as a recognised star.
Where, before, the Dufault programme had
to be submitted to a prima donna for revi-
sion, it is now of unlimited delight, as the
tenor is permitted to sing as many love
songs as he desires and his audiences insist.
Nang piug (Mr. Wu's daughter),
Esther Mitchell.
Certain unfriendly remarks in this page
last week concerning Winifred Ward, the
male impersonator at the Tivoli, were made
on the strength of her English Johnny song.
Said remarks are now ruled out, The
Bulletin having meantime heard her lift-
boy and kiltie songs, and the lady is hereby
honorably acquitted. Josh Dixon, an
eccentric comedian, who scores chiefly by
his patter, though his songs are passable;
Gilday and Fox, the Hebrew combination;
and Thornleigh Dodge are the other leading
lights on the same bill.
$ $
Being driven to it, the writer repeats for
the 142,618 th time that the Imperial Salon
de Tango is open for custom at the old
address in Sydney. Everybody in the city
knows this, but as the manager of the show
rushed into The Bulletin office yesterday
to say that two strangers had just arrived
from Mullengudgery the news is broken once
more.
* * * *
The Bulletin made some complimentary
remarks last week concerning the show at
the National Amphitheatre (Sydney). It
forgets exactly what they were, but, unless
the edition is sold out, copies of the paper
can be obtained at the old stand at the
usual price. Failing that, it can be said
that this week’s programme justifies last
week’s criticism.
$
The pick of the picture programmes:—
Crystal Palace : “Lost in Mid Ocean,” wherein
a trans-Atlantic liner sinks, but the heroine doesn’t.
She spends a week or two in the cold water there-
abouts, somehow meets a young man, gets married,
and has rheumatism ever after.
Empress: “Why Men Left Town.” Part of the
female population became mayor and alderman and
shut the pubs; and the men left town in a bunch.
The ladies got along all right till they came to the
dirty work. Then the pubs opened automatically.
Spencer’s Lyceum: “Antony and Cleopatra,” show-
ing no signs of wear and tear.
** * *
“lolanthe,” the daintiest hut one of the
most out-of-date of the Gilbertian operas,
is doing six nights at Her Majesty’s (Melb.),
and doing them very well. Britain’s House
of Peers has dropped a good deal of its
glamor since the chorus of elderly noble-
men first laid the coronets at Phyllis’s feet,
and every bald-headed suitor carried a silk
pocket-handkerchief in the interior of his
ornate headgear. Times have changed. For
that matter the Peers are not so unanimously
naked on top as they used to be, nor do
they wear their “wipes” inside, their coro-
nets as of yore. Yet in one respect “lolan-
the” proves to have been in advance
of its period. It gave the cue for elective
Ministries. When Strephon was imposed
upon Parliament by the Fairy Queen, he
undertook the leadership of both parties at
once, and there was an end to contentious
discussion over bills. Legislation was made
easy and the Tory Lords and Commons com-
plained bitterly that the country was going
to the Devil. Then the full strength of the
company soared away to Fairyland, and the
party government system was restored.
For the most part the performance of
“lolanthe” is up to the best Australian tra-
ditions, or even higher. MeKeown is excel-
lent, vocally and otherwise, as Earl Tolloller,
and Wilson as Mountararat would be equally
admirable if he were a trifle more frilly
and mannered. Arnold is a likeable
Strephon ; whilst Dorothy Vane, well suited
to the character of his fairy mother, plays
it gracefully and makes her hymn-like song
to the Lord Chancellor go for almost as much
as it is worth. Walenn, as the Chancellor,
satisfies everybody who has not heard the
same part talked and pattered in the hard,
dry legal tones of a Robert Brough. There
is only a little touch of the conventional
low-comedy style in AValenn’s treatment of
the text; yet it is enough to mar the effect.
Moreover, he has very little variety of facial
expression. For the reason, presumably,
that he couldn’t look a saddened old man
when his winged wife warbles to him from
behind a veil of tears, Walenn stands with
his back to the lady and the audience mean-
while. There is a suggestion of grief in his
back, to be sure, but the pose isn’t accord-
ing to stage directions. Ruth Lincoln is
only a passable Phyllis, but Ethel
Morrison would be a quite satisfactory
Fairy Queen if all her notes were as musical
as the lower ones. The three principal
fairies are nicely spoken and sung; the
chorus of Peers is very fine and rich; and
the orchestra deals fairly with the sweet,
stringsome music: Next Saturday, for six
nights only, “The Yeoman of the Guard”
will come to hearing.
* * * *
At the Royal there is no mention, as yet,
of a change in the Niblo bill. “Officer 666”
continues to carry farcical comedy into bello-
drama’s camp, and the little gun of the
amazing picture thief is always pointed at
Niblo’s head when the curtain falls on the
second act.
* * * *
“Aladdin” and the wrestling ponies will
cease to be at the Princess’s after Friday
night.. For Saturday another burst of
“Glorious news for the Irish” is advertised.
The oft-recurrent Doone, whose front name
is Allan, announces the return of himself
and co. in the ancient drama of “The Colleen
Bawn.”
* * * *
Leroy, Talma and Bosco, likewise the
eccentric dancers and the juggler in the
suits of many colors, and Santucci, the wiz-
ard of the accordeon, are following their
respective avocations at the King’s. Except
for a few occasional words from the con-
jurers it is a dumb show, although San-
tucci’s instrument is often loud in the land.
The accordeon man eventuated on the sec-
ond night of the show, and proved to be
a clever manipulator of a fine collapsible
box of music. “Nero, or Thrown to the
Lions,” is the heaviest item in the Le-Tal-
Bos business, as before. Critically con-
sidered, it is their least effective piece of
wizardry, but it is rich in unintentional
humor. The festive Talma, clothed in the
simple piety of an early Christian maiden,
rarely forgets to look pleasant whilst her
father is being cremated alive. Her refusal
of the base overtures of Emperor Nero
looks very like the rejection of an invite to
afternoon tea. and the anxiety of her lover
(Leroy) is less pronounced than the glee
of Bosco at finding himself in the middle
of an alleged melodramatic illusion. The
lion is the one serious performer in the
scene. He just walks about moodily, won-
dering when the time will come for him to
disappear.
$ $ $
At the Tivoli the return of Ada Reeve
on the 18th is a matter of more pressing
importance than any turns which have
lately come to light. The Villions, who
dance and cycle, the whistling Taft, and
the American tenor are the latest new-
comers. Fields is back for a week or two,
and the innings of Beth Tate is about to
close.
:f: Hs *
At the Bijou, where the Fuller-Brennan
programme is never two weeks old and the
house is always full, Hanlon, Dean and
Hanlon are a notable team of acrobats just
now. They claim to acrobat faster than
anybody else in their particular sphere of
activity, and the claim is worth considering.
Ford and Davis are just to hand with a
sketch; Josephine Gassroan’s Pics are coon-
ing as before; and among the rest of the
fleeting features of the bill Livermore’s Doll
calls for remark.
$ $ 4:
The Auditorium is busy again. Bauer
has the platform on Saturday afternoon for


IffirtougMfttd jffaM
Made with the style, in the quality and with the per-
fect finish that pleases the particular man,
“Thoroughbred” Hats are also made of such superior
and perfectly processed felt that durability and light,
comfortable, yet secure, fit are assured.
The “Thoroughbred” is THE hat that combines
ARE these particular points. You can always be
SURE as to whether the hat served
is a “Thoroughbred” or Not, by
looking for the “Thoroughbred”
Reg. Trade Mark (with horse’s
head) on inside leather.
#ll %
'**•
AHM
O':
*'2
The newest “Thorough-
bred” Shapes and Designs
are being sold NOW, by ALL
Leading Stores, Hatters and Mercers.
If any trouble in obtaining, write direct.
The Austral Hat Mills Ltd.,
Abbotsford Melbourne
Keep it
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
6S£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV
Branches in all parts of the world.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession,
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants.
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
9
WILSON, NAFIS&CO. Ltd., Wharf St., Brisbane, Q
the second piano recital of his farewell
series, and in the evening another Pop Con-
cert will happen. Walter Kirby gives a
song recital on Monday night, when the
local vice-regals will (d.v.) hearken to his
dulcet tones. After which Bauer resumes
work.
* =:= *
‘‘Tess of the Storm Country” is Spencer’s
longest picture at the Majestic this week.
Tess_ is the motherless daughter of a fishy
surviving parent, and her up-bringing in a
disreputable hut unfits her for subsequent
struggles with civilisation. Fortunately the
young woman continues to believe in a
Supreme Being, and many sniffs of sym-
pathy break the silence of the film. A pic-
ture of the progress of the transcontinental
railway up to date is instructive, and “The
Light on the Wall” appeals to those con-
stant patrons who want further information
re the Bloke Who Disappeared.
The Repertory Theatre will be located at
St. Peter’s Hall, Eastern Hill, on Saturday.
Cregan McMahon is producing “Whither,”
an Australian play by Mary E. Wilkinson,
and he thinks so well of it that he lias booked
the hall for three nights. “Whither” will
bloom again on Monday and Tuesday. The
story deals with the lovely woman question
from an anti-Pankhurstian point of view,
and is darkly suspected of presenting the
feminine soul in its true colors. Six of the
minor characters are girl typists, anyhow.
At the Athenaeum Hall a “musical costume
company” will start proceedings next Satur-
day (18th), under the warm and glowing
appellation of “The Fireflies.” A “musical
costume” reads like garments associated with
song, and from the fact that IT. N. Gregory
and E. B. Manning are the directors, it is
assumed that The Fireflies are frivollers of
the Branscombe persuasion.
The Appendreena Society in Adelaide has
given its first Australian staging to “Eliza
Comes to Stay.” Esmond disarms criticism
by calling it a farce. It is not that, but a
highly artificial sentimental comedy. When
Sandy adopts a dead friend’s daughter, and
decks his fiat with rocking-horse and teddy-
bear to welcome the “little tot,” you know
at once that she will prove to be a grown-up
girl. He is already engaged, but, when his
girl asks casually about the rich uncle’s age,
health and bank account, you know that she
will go for uncle, and leave Sandy free for
the kid. And it is so. The one touch of
the unexpected is in Eliza turning out to be
a slattern, ill-dressed and uneducated, the
conventional stage “slavey”; but of course
she becomes refined and charming, in record
time, for the third act. The experienced
Appendreena amateurs, under Von Treuer’s
coaching, easily skimmed through the witty
dialogue of this light story. Zoe Reid, as
Eliza, rose to her many chances, and de-
lighted a mostly-feminine audience with
some quick-change dressing, as (1) slat-
ternly, (2) overdressed, and disreputable-
looking, (3) simple and charming, (4) slat-
ternly again—a temporary relapse, on be-
coming engaged to the wrong man, (5)
charming again. Len Chamberlain (the
inter-State cricketer) was airily effective as
Sandy, Mrs. Von Treuer made her first
appearance as an Aged Aunt, and the other
parts were in safe hands.
New to Australia, at the King’s, Ade-
laide, are several Brennan-Fuller turns.
Milton Brothers’ brilliant skating becomes
unusual only when they burlesque the art
as novices. The others are more ordinary:
Sterling and Love, a sketch pair, plus some
good music; Mann and Franks, a hard-work-
ing couple who do a bit of everything. At the
Tivoli Ada Reeve shows herself one of the
select who deserve starring. She can hold
her house just as long as she cares to. There
is some fine acting, too, by the gentlemanly
inebriate of Farr and Farland, but the turn
is kept up too long. “Sealed Orders” has
been at the Royal. From its first act it
might have been the strongest thing of its
kind since “The Silver King” ; but it flickers
out through the Drury Lane demand for
airship, battleship and motor-car. Wh'-n
those things arrive, the story goes. Si ill,
they are excellent in themselves, and the
result is a boom. Joseph of Genesis is on
the doorstep. The camels are coming. Among
the pictures the most interesting things in
sight are a Strike drama at Wondergraph,
and the all-Australian “Shepherd of the
Southern Cross” at West’s, Vera Pearce,
who played the heroine for filming, being
present to see the production.
“Gazer”: Melbourne’s musical section is stag-
gered at the appointment of Marshall Hall to the
Ormond professorship. Many who bear him no ill-
will are sorry, because it means a continuance of the
bitter partv feuds that have too long devitalised
local musical effort. W. A. Laver, the other candi-
date. had not the most necessary qualification. Although
a fine teacher he is not the conductor that is needed.
All the same, his rejection by the Uni. Council after
14 years as a temporary or casual hand has gained
him much sympathy. It is the Walter Murdoch
incident over again. Mr. Laver intends, I believe,
to stay on at the Conservatorium as vice-director,
and. as he has a staunch body of teachprs and
students behind him who will “barrack” for him
at every turn, look out for storms !
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Gazer”: That odd figure, Eugene Ossinoff, has
turned up again in Melbourne as unexpectedly as he
first came three years ago—direct from Russia with
as many English words in his vocabulary as he has
pence in his pocket. lie looks weird. His pallid,
cadaverous face has achieved a bushy, Kaiser mous-
tache, whose points just escape pricking his eyes.
Also, lie has acquired glasses, which the overhead
light at the concert made to flash in uncanny fashion.
His stealthy, wolf-like movements —half-lope, half-
trot—and the interpolation into his singing of growls,
barks and unclassable noises, made up a delightfully
ferocious display. It was a real pick-me-up after the
long run of soujful musical shows that had reduced
many of us to prere spirits.
“OFFICER 666,”
AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
General impression of
the whirling Niblo.
A millionaire's
friend (E. P. Bush).
“Kaniva”: Her Majesty’s Hotel, in Swanston-street
(Melb.), is threatened now. Time was when this
hostelry had for proprietors Geo. Rignold, Jimmy
Allison and Tom Curnow, the last-named holding the
license. It was during this period that Clarence
Whistler, the champion wrestler, practically com-
mitted suicide by chewing tumblers or any odd bits
of glass that came handy. This was great sport for
the beer-chewers and a good ad. for the pub.
Whistler’s share wasn’t so satisfactory. He died of
undigested glass on 6/11/’B5, and was buried from
the hotel.
“Blue Mask”: “The Master of Angerstroom,”
played at Sydney’s Little Theatre by Hugh Buckler
and co., and advertised as being by an anonymous
Australian writer, was originally (say 16 or 17
years ago) known under the name of “David Raven.”
At that time there was nothing mysterious about the
fact that Bernard Espinasse was its parent.
When Ellen Terry was in Dunedin (M.L.) re-
cently, she was roped in to perform the opening
ceremony of a section in the local Botanical Gardens
that had come into being through the efforts of the
Dunedin Shakspeare Society. It is called the. Shaks-
peare Garden, and contains nothing but the
vegetables mentioned by the immortal William.
There is a similar garden attached to Shakspeare’s
cottage in Stratford-on-Avon. Miss Terry planted
a commemorative tree in the plot at the Scawtch
town.
“Midchannel”: There is something wrong with
“H. 0.” (B. 9/7/’l4) or with his musical knowledge.
He avers that the best of Sullivan’s operas are
deficient in orchestration, and quotes Lehar’s works
as an example to the contrary; also, Act I. of
Strauss’s “Chocolate Soldier.” In support of his
conviction as regards. Sullivan he quotes “The Gon-
doliers.” This is an opera which is essentially a
work of melody; but in “The Mikado” and “The
Yeoman of the Guard,” particularly the latter, one
is struck instantly with the varied instruments em-
ployed and the peculiar adaptability of the music to
the instrument. The best musicai authorities have
asserted that Sullivan must have been able to play
every orchestral tool, so striking was his command
of orchestration. A feature of “The Yeoman” is
that one evening one can go for the singing alone
and another for the orchestration alone, so rich is
its quality. Another feature of Sullivan’s work —
almost wholly absent from that of modern com-
posers—is his mastery of the art of counterpoint.
This makes his trios, quartettes and concerted num-
bers so charming. What is the matter with “H. 0.”?
Has he any musical knowledge or is he just some
fatuous Wagnerite throwing bricks at anything non-
Wagnerish?
“Mujik”: Just-deceased playwright Sydney Grundy
achieved fame and money, but both were long
a-coming. An interesting life this, with a yet-to-be-
explained hiatus. Grundy’s father was desperately
anxious to see his son a barrister, so after a course
at Owen’s College the youngster found himself, at the
age of 17, in a Manchester solicitor’s office, where he
nursed his contempt for education and examinations,
and “wrote dunning letters nearly all day.” In his
intervals young Grundy dabbled with ink on his own
account, and some doggerel verse on a municipal
election attracted attention from the editor of one
of the Manchester dailies. Grundy saw him. “Ever
been to the theatre ?” he asked. “Never,” replied
Glumly. “Oh, r.o matter. Sothern opens to-night,
and we’ve got to have a notice. Go and do him.”
“But I’m not allowed out after 10 o’clock,” gasped
the flustered fledgling. That settled the matter for
the moment, and someone else “did” Sothern. The
office boy most* likely. However, the editor was in-
sistent, and within a few weeks, an extension of the
evening parole being secured, Sydney Grundy was the
regular critic. A month or two afterwards he tried
his hand at leaders, and derived fees and pleasure
from this work until the time arrived for him to
leave Manchester for London and there “eat his
dinners.” He got through, and was soon appearing at
the Bar as junior to such men as Pope, James,
Holker, Esher and Herschell. The London and North
Western Railway Co. treated him well with briefs,
and he managed to get a monopoly of legal work at
the disposal of Several influential Manchester houses.
But he never liked the Bar. One day he found
himself opposed single-handed to the celebrated
Charles Russell. He won the case, and was mightily
pleased \yith himself for a week or two. But
elation gave place to mental agony on learning that
Russell had been beguiling some rare moments
of leisure by standing on the hearth-rug in a
club room, taking a long pinch of snuff and deliver-
ing himself of an imitation of the young barrister’s
address to the jury. Grundy hadn’t the hide for the
Bar. “The enigma of my forensic experience,” he
once wrote, “was Hawkins. On every occasion I
addressed him he lounged back in his seat, folded his
hands and surveyed me with a pleased and benignant
smile. Whether it was a smile of sympathy or con-
tempt I was never able to determine. There was
no obiter dicta to guide me, for he never opened his
mouth. If he assented to an application he did so
by bowing. If he dissented he gently shook his
head —always smiling.” Here comes the break.
Grundy had been doing fairly well, but on Christmas
Eve, 1875, he “walked up Regent-street with 4d. in
his pocket and not a friend in the world.” He spent
the fourpence recklessly on a cigar. Then
he started seriously on playwriting. “How
I lived during this time,” he said later,
“I have no remembrance. It was certainly not
by my pen.” He was blackballed by the Savage and
Green Room. “Mammon” was staged, but was only
a partial success, and got beans from the critics.
Ellen Terry accepted a one-act play, but hadn’t an
opportunity of presenting it. It was not until 1886,
when Wilson Barrett produced “Clito”—l4 years
after the production of his first effort at the Hay-
market —that Grundy came into favor at a popular
and prosperous house. “The days of my youth were
not over until I was 38,” he afterwards reflected.
“Monkbarns”: Warde, the Victorian M.L.A., is a
son of Con Warde, a well-known tragedian of the
generation before last. Con’s widow, mother of
the M.L.A. and 10 other children, has just died. She
was a remarkably strong and intellectual woman,
fond of political meetings, and thus she nurtured
the M.L.A., like Cornelia, Scipio’s daughter, with
her sons the Gracchi. Con Warde was in great
favor on old Ballarat, Bendigo, Castlemaine and
Inglewood, where he played parts like Shvlock,
Richard 111., Macbeth, and Othe’lo, and Gloster in
“Jane Shore.” Afterwards he was a good stock
actor at the Melbourne Royal. His sister, Kate
Warde, was a goldfields star as Cynthia in “The
Flowers of the Forest,” Miami in “The Green
Bushes,” and such pieces, rivalling Kate O’Reilly.
Her last appearance in Melbourne was as principal
girl in Lvster’s pantomime of “The Arabian Nights,”
at the Theatre Rovnl in 1862. One of the little boy
Wardes was Lilliputian King in the Royal panto-
mime of “Gulliver” (1866), and later was clown at
the Opera House.
(Continued on page 35.)
“S.D.C.”: Re “miracle plays” (B. 18/6/’l4). The
stage direction for Eve’s entry, “Naked but not
ashamed,” does read strangely nowadays. The modern
stage direction would more likely run: “Enter Eve,
naked but not unduly proud.”
“J.F.H.” (from London) : Clara Butt is back here
after 18 months spent profitably in Australia, Maori-
land and America. She enjoyed herself immensely,
“particularly in Australia,” whose people are more
musical than Uncle Sam. She appreciates Sam’s
“huge audiences,” but she despises his journalism.
New York, she declares, was actually more interested
in her height and her method of bowing than in her
voice. In fact. New York has no musical critics at
all at least, none came her way. The compliment
of the tour came from an Australian woman, who
confided to Clara that her singing of a “Night Hymn
at Sea” made her feel as if ants were crawling up' her
back. By the way, talking of hymns at sea, Mrs.
Romford, like Melba, writhes when you mention ship
concerts. “Just when you think you are going to
have a quiet, restful week or two, somebody comes
along and asks you to sing.” If you were Martha
Washington, tired to death of scrubbing, how would
you like to be invited to take a hand for fun in
mopping out the cabins!
Father P. Birch, who died at Bungendore
(N.S.W.) on July 7, aged 87, was the last
of the old R.C. priesthood receiving grants
from the State. There are still two C. of
E. clergymen receiving them. Father Birch’s
grant dated from July 16, 1859.
From Sydney Crawford, manager of Lake
Condah aboriginal station (Vic.) :
Apropos the par. in The Bulletin (2/7/’l4) con-
cerning the death of “Bullocky,” reputedly the last
of the aboriginal cricket team that went to England
jnany years ago. I think there has been a confusion
between two “Bullockys. ,, Harry Burns, the cricket-
ing “Bullocky,”. died on July 29, 1890, aged 55
years. His widow Maria is alive on the station here;
she is remarried. By the way, there is still a
survivor of the aboriginal cricketers, though he didn’t
go to England. This one, Harry Bose, toured Aus-
tralia. with the team ; but at Sydney he saw the sea,
and grabbed a chance to run away.
The poor old State of New South Wales
still drifts steadily into debt. During the
hrst half of 1914 the imports exceeded
exports by something approaching
11,000,000. The natural inference is that
the State went backward to the extent -of
£1,000,000 on its trade, and paid all the
interest on its public and private foreign
extent of about another
±2,000,000 —out of foreign loans. The old
man clamors for better wages and shorter
hours, while the invoice is left to the in-
fant, because the old man doesn’t do enough
work, or doesn’t accomplish his work in a
sufficiently up-to-date and labor-saving
fashion to pay his way. It is rough on the
infant and it is discreditable to the old
man, but the infant doesn’t know, and
apparently the old man doesn’t care.
T. Loveridge bobs up as N. S. Wales
1 üblic Service Commissioner during the six-
months’ absence of W. .T. Hanna. Not long
ago Loveridge was a Treasury inspector,
and was transferred to the Board’s office as
an advising' officer. In short, he was the
executive Board member, the Commissioners
being the rubber stamps. Now he is pro-
moted to the rubber-stamp grade, and the
appointment (which is made on the alleged
ground of economy, a salary being saved) is
generally expected to be permanent as soon
as Hanna decides to roll in his official
marble.
The coroner’s inquest into the cause of
the drowning of a stoker off the submarine
AEI after a collision between the s.s. Coom-
bar and a naval pinnace, in Port Jackson,
resulted in the obvious verdict that the acci-
dent was caused by faulty navigation on the
part of the coxswain of the pinnace. This
sailor-man lost his head between the Coom-
bar and the ferry Kai Kai. and in dodging
one ran into the other, showing (as was
show r n a few years back when 14 bluejackets
were drowned in the same waters) ignorance
on the part of some naval coxswains of the
rules made for preventing marine collisions.
The old rule used to be navy first, mercan-
tile marine after; and the idea that the
naval flag goes triumphantly first dies hard.
The accident which led to a loss of 14 men
was followed by rigorous examination of all
seamen and petty officers entrusted ws>h the
navigation of steam launches; and it looks
as if there is need of Admiral Patey taking
similar action.
One of the oft-foretold motor-boat tra-
gedies happened on July 10 at Tweed
Heads (N.S.W.). With a party of men on
board, the launch was capsized while crossing
the bar inward, and seven lives were lost.
By. the irony of fate the new regulations,
which were framed amongst other things to
regulate this over-the-bar traffic, had just
been gazetted, but remote Tweed Heads
hadn’t yet heard of them. Bar navigation
in an open launch, unprovided with reserve
flotation buoyancy or life-saving appliances,
is always a risky business. Many a launch
has capsized, foundered, blown up or caught
fire, though in Australia up to now a serious
toll of human life has been averted, more or
less by luck. But luck was unduly chal-
lenged on this occasion. The launch carried
13 in the party and put to sea on a Friday.
A British collector has consigned a num-
ber of Old Masters to Sydney, and they will
be on view in a specially-constructed gallery
in Culwulla Chambers next week. To the
uninitiate the Old Master is a baffling cir-
cumstance. It frequently looks as though
it had been done with a clothes-brush —if
not a yard-broom. There is a physical re-
dundancy about the women whom the old
masters knew which astonishes the modern,
and a bloated and dipsomaniacal appearance
about many of the men which scan-
dalises the present generation of moderate
drinkers. Yet these works often have a
beauty that is apparent to the merest clod,
and the romance of bygone centuries at-
taches to them. Amongst the collec-
tion at Culwulla Chambers are some Dutch
and Italian works that were painted 200
years before the First Fleet entered Sydney
Heads; also there are some 18th-century
portrait and genre pictures. It will be
interesting to see how moneyed Sydneyites
receive the instalment. Some may consider
the pictures in a serious vein. More will
probably approach them in the hilarious
spirit of the unclothed savage nearing his
first missionary.
THE ENCHANTMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night the town kept carnival,
Kept carnival, gay carnival,
The very stars donned masks of cloud,
And like a jewel through a shroud
They glimmered over all.
Last night the town kept carnival,
Kept carnival, mad carnival;
She sat black patches near her lip
To tempt a butterfly to sip
Of honey, without gall.
Sometimes she was a Quaker maid,
As cooing as a dove,
Whose modest lids conceal a laugh,
Whose bosom swells beneath her scarf
As though it ached for love.
Sometimes she was a nun devout
With coif as white as snow,
Who never chafes to change her lot;
Sometimes that chaste self she forgot
In scarlet domino.
Sometimes she was a Highland lass,
With face of rose and cream ;
Sometimes dusk-eyed and hungry-lipped,
Her finger-points with henna tipped,
The bride of the harem.
At times she was a wanton thing,
Again, an innocent;
But never for an hour the same,
A shape of ice, a tongue of flame,
Enchantingly she went.
Sometimes a rose of all desire,
Sometimes as grey as death,
Sometimes as fierce as serpent’s hiss,
And sometimes... .just a mouth to kiss
With poppy in its breath!
A lover claimed her at the dawn.
A lover strange was he,
Black gowned as monk, and pale as corse,
And some men labelled him Remorse,
And some... .Satiety !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


FALLING HAIR CAUSED BY
DANDRUFF.
HOW TO DESTROY THE DANDRUFF
GERM AND SAVE YOUR HAIR.
Thin, brittle, colorless and scraggy hair is
mute evidence of a neglected scalp ; of dan-
druff, that awful scourge. There is nothing
so destructive to the hair as dandruff. It
robs the hair of its lustre, its strength and
its very life, eventually producing a fever-
ishness and itching of the scalp, which if not
remedied, causes the hair roots to shrink,
loosen and die—then the hair falls out fast.
For the purpose of destroying the dandraff
germ you should get your chemist to pre-
pare a lotion consisting of 3 ounces Bay
Rum, 1 ounce Lavona de Composee and \
dram Menthol Crystals. Rub this thoroughly
into the scalp with the finger tips. It will
kill the dandruff germ at once and after
the first application your hair will take on
that life, lustre and luxuriance which is so
beautiful. It will become wavy and fluffy,
and have the appearance of aboundance and
incomparable gloss and softness, but what
will please you most will be after just a
few weeks’ use, when you will actually see a
lot of fine downy hair —new hair —growing
all over the scalp.*
Missing Friend s.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
In the Estate of JOHN MATSON, late of
Clifton Station, Currububula, laborer,
deceased.
THE next of kin of the above deceased
are requested to communicate with the
undersigned, furnishing particulars of their
identity. Any person who can give any
information as to the next of kin of the
deceased is also'invited to communicate with
the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Cuiwulia Chambers, Sydney.
C4HARLES WRIGHT, late of Hay and
J Picton, N.S.W., communicate with
W. H. Seddon, Castlemaine, Victoria.
Important.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
HENRY CHARLES FREDERICK
(FRED) ESCREET, late of Warreabayne,
Victoria, or if he should see this notice, please
communicate at once to Standard Office,
Benalla. Vic.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
8?
N\\\
VH\'
»■»
\'B ■ :
\W
urit
mi
*•»*•#*
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd,
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
The first woman to be charged with fraud
in connection with the maternity bonus in
N. S. Wales was committed for trial the
other day. According to the evidence, she
had really earned the bonus once this year,
and found it so good that under various
names she made application for some more
of the “insult to motherhood.” She got the
money, too; but the glut of infants at the
one address aroused someone’s suspicion, and
the trouble started. Now is the time for
some good Tory to come along and point out
the debasing influence of the bonus and urge
its abolition; just as when a milkman is
fined for fraud it is a natural thing for
people to blame the milk and urge that the
cow be abolished.
Little Dr. Maloney, M.P. for Melbourne,
in his press controversy with Vic. bar-leader
Mitchell, sticks like a terrier to his “prefer-
ence to unionists” charge against the Ice-
berg. As he succinctly puts it, Irvine, as a
member of the Bar Association, is a union-
ist who will not work with non-unionists;
and before a non-unionist can get work he
must sign the roll. All Mitchell’s special
pleading about the distinction between bar-
risters and “amalgams,” and the briefing of
both by solicitors who are neither, doesn’t
alter the facts. In opposing preference to
unionists Irvine merely confirms the accepted
opinion of most people—that the barrister
who does this is a hypocrite of the first
magnitude.
Everard Digges La Touche, a gentle Syd-
ney vendor of the Word, coined a fine
phrase last week (Sydney Telegraph,
tV6/’l4) apropos the anti-Home Rule mani-
HAUNTING SUSPICIONS.
THE INFANT: “I say, our pussy's got six kittens.”
M A: “Has she? Well, that's nothing rare!"
THE INFANT: “No; but did you know she was married?"
festo issued by Archbishop Wright. Said
Everard Digges—or, again, it might have
been the comp.;—
No attempt was made to secure a provincial mani-
festo. Only the metropolitical clergy could be reached
in time.
“Metropolitical clergy” is the neatest defini-
tion of the frequent tyne of Sydney parson
who combines hot-gospclling with Tory
propaganda work that this paper has en-
countered for years.
The enthusiastic people of the I.WAV.,
having humiliated the S. Australian mayor
who tried to check their street meetings, are
looking for new cities to conquer, and they
have fixed on Sydney. Another “free-speech
campaign” is in full blast, and the blood of
the red-rag martyrs can be observed trickling
in the Sydney courts each week. The
free-speecli campaign is really a campaign
for the right to sell propagandist literature
in the Domain on Sunday. The I.WAV.
claims that other people (notably the
Salv’army) are permitted to trade without
molestation; but the Director refused, for
some reason, to grant permission to the
I.WAV. .to do likewise. Of course the
I.WAV. ignored the refusal —it always does —
and when the summonses started to arrive
the “campaign” began. The Port Pirie
fight was won mainly because the local gaols
had a limited capacity; but the gaols of
Sydney are a bigger proposition. Still, the
lAVAV. will make a cheerful attempt to fill
them. The true lAVAV. member counts his
gaol experiences for “the cause” as a soldier
counts his scars, and that Industrial Worker
who paid a fine rather than have the glory
of a few weeks’ prison would regard himself
with unspeakable contempt. So, unless the
Director backs down, N. S. Wales is going
to pay for the board and lodging of a lot <-f
aLIe-bodivd people. The whole thing is very
foolish. If the Salv’army can sell its litera-
ture, the lAVAV. should have a similar
license; and, anyway, the discrimination
shouldn’t be exercisable by a man whose job
is to grow vegetables, and who, for all the
public knows, may be a weird crank on the
subjects of religion and economics.
* * * *
South Aus. is getting to business on its
share of the scheme for conserving tin;
water of the Murray, and Gutting, the
deouty sent along by his fellow-Yankce,
engineer Johnston, has arrived in Adelaide
to supervise the making of the first lock.
This is the lowest, about Blanchetown, and
is expected to take two years and cost some-
thing over £lOO.OOO. The idea is to dam
half the width of the stream and leave the
other half as a “navigable pass” when the
river is high, though that half, too, can be
blocked at low-river. The official descrip-
tion says: “When the river is low and the
lock chamber is being used, the weir will
stand up as a closed structure, practically
watertight, and at such times all steamers
will pass through the lock chamber. At
high-river, one-half the stream will appear
in its natural condition, and through that
part vessels will pass.” It is claimed that
a steamer and two barges—the lock’s hold-
ing capacity—will be run through within
two minutes. Tenders are about to be
called for this first job, and after it five
more are to come, working right up to the
State border.
HOLMAN, THE HUMBLE ACOLYTE, OBLATES
BEFORE SAINT DENIS MEAGHER.
Another fine story of grit comes from away
out where the real Australian lives. This
chap, working in the bush beyond Temora,
broke his leg, but managed to do the long,
painful crawl to his tent, where he remained,
helpless and unattended. But he wasn’t
idle. His horse, in grazing, used to come
near the tent, and the injured man set to
work to catch it by the foot in a loop of rope.
Ht didn’t succeed till the third day. Then,
saddling and bridling the animal, he hoisted
himself aboard and rode miles to the nearest
doctor —and got there none too soon, for
mortification had already set in. As a
doctor said about another bushman who lay
unconscious in the same pine scrub for a
fortnight with most of the bones in his face
broken and then recovered —“These fellows
won't die!”
The present Vic. Railway Commissioners
seem to have luck with them. On Wednes-
day last week the Bendigo express, from
Melbourne (6.20 a.m.), escaped an awful
smash only through being late. It was due
to pass through Sydenham at 6.55, at which
time a runaway goods train was rushing
thither from Diggers’ Rest, the station
beyond. . An alert signal-man at Diggers’
Rest, seeing that the lately-shunted goods
train had bolted whilst its engine was com-
ing along to couple with it, signalled to
Sydenham, where it was turned into a dead-
end siding only two ininutes before the Ben-
digo express should have passed the sta-
tion. Had the passenger train run true to
the table, it must have met the trucks coming
downhill from Diggers’ Rest. The acci-
dent that did happen was bad enough.
Three trucks and a workmen’s sleeping car
were standing in the dead-end siding when
the runaway train was turned into it. The
trucks were smashed, and three men in the
sleeper were injured more or less seriously.
* * * *
The combined strength of the Adelaide
doctors, represented by the British Medical
Association’s local branch, lately resolved
to house itself adequately, instead of meet-
ing in rooms belonging to other bodies —
Generally the University. The Young
Women’s Christian Association has now been
bought out, and the B.M.A. has at last a
suitable home, in Hindmarsh-square. The
main hall is named after Lister, and Prof.
Harry Allen, from Melbourne,, opened it
with a brilliant address, including some hor-
rible details about the loss of life under
operations in the bad- old times up to 30
years, ago. Then he unveiled George Webb’s
painting of the man who earned undying
fame, and saved countless thousands of lives,
just by teaching surgeons to be quite clean.
MAN’S INHUMANITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It'is part of the Londoner’s education row to see
a young gill’s clotlus torn from her body; to see
an eldeil.y woman, who might very well be his own
mother, dragged into the street and thrown head-
long. I have had my own mother sent to prison
seven times- —one sentence of three years for destroy-
ing an empty house belonging to Mr. Lloyd George.
—Miss Adcla Panlchurst, to a Sydney Sunday Times
interviewer.
They’re heaving girls, in London, out of meetings
and the like ;
Nice girls who only come to interrupt,
And thiow an egg or cat or two, or kick or scratch
or bite
Some constable whose manner is abrupt.
Yes, there, where liars claim that none inequity
need fear,
The brick-propelling Suffragette is passed out on
her ear.
When sweet Miss Pankhurst’s mother sets a states-
man’s home alight,
And brightens up the neighborhood for miles,
And gives the local fire-brigade a chance to show
its might,
What follows? Commendation? Friendly smiles?
Not so. They grab the dear old soul, so gentle, good
and frail,
And, while the Shade of Justice howls, immure her
in a gaol.
Last week Elvira Jibkat, young and pure, and oh!
so fair,
Was hacking at a Raphael with a knife
(She wore, I need not say, the latest shrieks in
clothes and hair) ;
Men rushed her. She became involved in strife.
They seized her arms and crushed her blouse and
disarranged her hat,
And commandeered her knife and dumped her on
the outer mat.
A far worse fate befell her Aunt, while blowing up
a church.
A verger, who was sitting on a tomb,
Observed her, and approaching at a hurried lope or
lurch,
Proceeded to appropriate her bomb.
He summoned to his aid a Brute whom he addressed
as “Jarge,”
And ended up his loathly work by giving her in
charge !
Enough! My nauseating tale has all too well been
told.
What need to mention Justice’s decease?
The British Bird of Freedom has been either pawned
or sold.
The modern maid or wife who breaks the peace,
Or, lacking votes, proceeds to burn cathedrals down
instead,
Is treated so that, honestly, she might as well be
dead.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


TO STRENGTHEN WEAK LUNGS AND
IMPROVE APPETITE AND DIGESTION,
Modern scientific treatment of lung affections
aims first to improve appetite, digestion and
nutrition, and secondly to heal the inflamed or
diseased mucous membrane of the lungs and
air passages.
The ideal prepara ion for accomplishing
these two objects is Angier’s Emulsion. This
remedy combines the soothing, healing pro-
perties of a specially purified petroleum with
the tonic properties of the hypophosphites of
lime and soda. By its soothing and disinfectant
action in the stomach and intestines it corrects
digestive irregularities and greatly improves
assimilation and nutrition, while at the same
time it exerts a most invigorating tonic in-
fluence upon the general health. Briefly stated,
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to
throat, lungs, stomach and intestines, an aid
to appe'ite and digestion, and a vitalizing
tonic and restorative. For twenty-one years
it has been prescribed by the medical profession
and used in the hospitals, and is now universally
recognised as a standard approved remedy for
lung troubles, digestive and bowel disorders and
wasting diseases. The combined healing and
strengthening properties of the emulsion
make it invaluable for healing the lungs and
building up health and strength after pneu-
monia, pleurisy, influenza or any illness
affecting the lungs ; also after measles, fevers
or any protracted illness. Even for the person
of average good health, Angier’s Emulsion is
of value, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally, thus making the use of pills
unnecessary. Of all chemists at 1/3,2/9 and 4/6.
A GOOD RIDING BOOT
IDEAL FOR BUSH WEAR.
This style is favored by horsemen, because the sole does
not project beyond the uppers, and is therefore most
convenient in the stirrup. Made of Black “Mineral” Hide
in the Derby-laced Balmoral style. Stout, machine-sewn
soles, and watertight tongues. A serviceable and waterproof
boot, for rough bush wear.
PRICE 13/6.
All Sizes, 5-10.
Please state size when ordering.
Catalogue of Men’s Wear on request.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters. 309-311 George Street, Sydney
mn
1316
, . ‘A.H.” on t jj e pi c t U r e that has set all Ade-
laide talking:—
Since the hanging of Orpen’s picture in the Gal-
Th' °* . . s of Culture everyone is art critic.
ne exquisite symbolism of the painting simply will
not make any appeal to me ; so, rather than confess
niy stupidity, I have to fade out of sight when the
topic comes up, as it does on an average 10 times
a ?. a y- To me the seed-sower seems simply the very
ugliest nude figure I have ever seen, on canvas or off
it. She is unlovely, has dislocated joints, and
Housemaid s-knee abnormally developed. A growth
l' Vl f i e r . >n *" ot ' l* l6 shins suggests that Nature
planted a pair of hockey player’s shin-guards under
tne skin, which has grown over them in warts. Her
xeet are those of a Japanese diver—only worse. She
is clearly recovering from a jag of the most frenzied
description, and has forgotten to bathe for some time.
Also, she has forgotten to put on her clothes, which
nan in an unkempt manner behind her. She wears
a frenzied and maudlin expression, and has had her
chin stretched. I expected to see a couple of police-
men behind her ; but if they are in the picture they
tuT i”, P uzzl ® form, the game being to find them.
ft? lady walks over ploughed ground—ploughed and
left in the rough. Near her is a claypit half-full
ot water a disused brickfield, probably. Near the
pool are two nude infants smiling at each other,
though their poor faces are swollen as from tooth-
ache. Their heads are of a size to suggest water on
the brain a flood of it. The bodies are in the last
stage of emaciation. On the left a man in a state
ir , e tipsiest astonishment falls up against a tree,
lie also would have been nude, but that he has bor-
i owed the cast-off clothes of a scarecrow, which hangs
nakedly above him. His companion is also rather
frowsy looking, though sober, and I guess she is
making remarks to her hubby, of a non-compli-
mentary nature, about the other hussy. One or two
details which are chock-full of symbolism to the
intelligent are (1) the broken fruit tin, from which
ne njuie lady scatters seed or feathers, or may be a
new fertiliser; (2) the shadows of the children in
the pool (these shadows I had regarded as a rustic
budge until a friend learned in art showed me dif-
ferently) ; and (3) the tree struck by lightning.
Also, there is any amount of “atmosphere,” and a
simplicity of outline,” and “the maximum of deco-
rative effect with the minimum of effort.” And,
finally, the canvas cost the trustees £7OO. l<’or
myself [ had rather have the chance of the first
half-dozen black-and-white sketches, which are lo be
bought for three or four guineas at the local shows,
, J! I would have a gallery-full of such examples
of the New Art.
* * * #
“Lex”: One of the matters likely to he
decided by the elections is whether the fear-
less and impeccable Justice Iliggins will
remain President of the Commonwealth Arbi-
tration Court. He isn’t conventional enough
to suit the anti-Labor crowd, who remember
that he once took the Attorney-General’s job
in a Labor Government; and if the Liberal
SOLVED.
"Did you ever notice how the big men all
have little wives?"
"They can't help themselves—the big women
collar all the little men."
party is returned the excuse will be made that
the position of Arbitration Judge has always
been held by the junior Judge of the High
Court, and that there are now three men on
that Bench who are Higgins’s juniors. His
term expires in two months ; and if Cook gets
back it is odds against a renewal. No other
man on the Bench is so well qualified for the
work, if only on the ground of Higgins’s five-
years’ experience of it; but that fact won’t,
of course, be permitted to count.
Australia had 4,872,000 people at the end
of 1913, and is due to score its five millionth
inhabitant any day now. In 178 S the
white population was 1024, and it dropped
to G 45 in the next year. The first million
was achieved in 70 years; 19 years later
there were 2.000,000; and 12 years after-
wards. 3,000,000. But thereabouts the deadly
after-effects of a borrowing boom began 1o
be felt, and it took 16 years to pile up an-
other million. The fifth million is being
reached in nine years. Eighty-two per cent,
are Australian born; but the five millions
include 361,442 Asiatics, which is a more
considerable discoloration than most people
suspect.
* * * *
The trouble betwen the Melbourne monu-
mental masons and their employees has
reached a stage where the whole building
trade threatens to be pushed through the
window. The employers began the row by
unanimously declining to nominate delegates
to the Wages Board. Delegates were accord-
ingly appointed by the Minister of Labor, and
when they omitted to attend the meeting the
Board went ahead without them. The em-
ployers replied by closing their yards. After
a while they got tired of amputating
their profits to spite the law, and went
in an enraged frame of mind to the
State Industrial Appeal Court. Justice
A’Beckett, after admitting that he was
blankly ignorant of the whole business,
and that the evidence put before him
had done nothing to dispel his mental
fog, reduced the men’s wages somewhat, and
let it go at that. Then the employees inti-
mated that they preferred the Wages Board’s
knowledge of trade conditions to Justice
A’Beekett’s confessed lack of it, and men-
tioned further that, as they had been locked
out in defiance of the law, they would
stay that way. Since then the em-
ployers have interviewed Premier Peacock
and asked that various penal provisions be
introduced into, his Amending Factories Act
Bill, but the Kookaburra, knowing the be-
ginnings of the business, coldly turned that
suggestion down. And there the matter
sits._ Unless it is settled somehow shortly
it will cause future stone-supported buildings
to be replaced with brick. And the average
brick mansion, though solid, is inartistic—t o
make no mention of the fact that the con-
struction of brick buildings puts no food in
the mouths of stoneworkers.
“0.K.”: Two local
barristresses have
given their views on
smoking, as a vice for
women, to a Mel-
bourne Herald re-
porter. One of them
argued that the ordi-
nary woman who puffs
a cigarette is osten-
tatiously betraying her
ignorance of how to
gmoke, and is injuri-
ously affected by her
foolish desire to pose
as a devil of a petti-
coat, and is undemo-
cratic in her habit,
women-smokers thus-
far being mostly mem-
bers of the gilded
snobocracy. The other
legal lady argued that
smoking is as natu-
rally soothing to her
as to the other fellow,
that the wish to ap-
pear devilish is com-
mon to the young be-
ginners of both sexes,
that the practised
woman gets all the
enjoyment a man
knows how to get
from a cigarette, and
is prepared to try any
pipe which will be
“suitable for feminine
use.” This demand
for a “dainty pipe,
suitable for feminine
use” is decidedly apo-
logetic. When women,
of old, took snuff they
didn’t ask for sexual
. . distinction in snuff
boxes. . No pipe with a bowl worth
mentioning can combine the lightness
of a feather with the beauty of a dream. So
the stipulation for daintiness” looks very
like an evasion of the truth that women are
the weaker vessels. They know how to
smoke, but they can’t do it.
* ; * * *
“Fore and Aft”: After having the new-
fangled lifejackets aboard the ferries in Port
Jackson for a twelvemonth, it has suddenly
struck the responsible parties that the pub-
lic has not the least idea how to put on the
contraptions. The Government has, there-
fore, decided to publish the procedure. The
Sydney Ferries Ltd. has gone one better, by
photographing a handsome deck-hand in four
.attitudes, which show the way to dress for
emergencies. The Balmain Ferries have
raised the Sydney Ferries by buying dummy
figures and fitting belts on them. The
Manly co. has not yet disclosed its scheme.
A rumor I don’t rely on is that it is going
to parade lovely surf sirens up and down the
jetty, to show travellers the jackets in actual
use, or something like that.
“Six-and-Eight” scents costs :
In 1912 the Vic. Parliament very quietly passed
an amending Act to provide that if the parents of
“illegitimate” children could have legally married
at the time of their birth, and did subsequently
marry, the father can at any time register such
children, who thereupon are deemed “legitimate.”
This simple-looking Act, though excellent in inten-
tion, opens up a fine assortment of nightmares for
trustees. Thus, a father is able to register a child,
even after the latter’s death, and thus make him
legitimate, and the issue of such child is entitled to
share in any property under a will or settlement as if
he had been born in wedlock, provided the property
had not been disposed of before his parents’ marriage
or before 1903 if such marriage took place before
that date. The only
limitation as to
time is that the
child must he
legitimised during
the life of the
father. There is no
obligation to make
all the children
legitimate. A
father can, there-
to r e, legitimise
some only of the
illicit lot, and lie
may do it years
after the death of
his wife and all
of such “illegiti-
mate” offspring,
and by that means
cause the issue cf
some of the latter
to share in any es-
tate settled or
willed. For in-
stance, Jones mar-
ries the mother of
his three children
born before he and
the lady troubled
about a wedding
ring. Mrs. Jones's
father settles a fund
on that lady’s sis-
ter for her life, and
directs that upon
her death the Jones
children shall take
the funds, but in
case of Mrs. Jones
not having any chil-
dren, then the prop-
erty shall go to the
children of Brown.
Years afterwards
Mrs. Jones and
Brown die, Jones
registers one of his
“illegitimate” chil-
dren, who thereupon, under the terms of the settle-
inent, ousts Brown’s children from the property. It
all looks as if the framers of the Act included some
astute lawyers who wanted to make sure of future
work for the profession.
James, M.L.A. for Goulburn (N.S.W.),
delivered one shaft that hurt badly, in the
course of his attack on the Holman Admin-
istration last week: —
They had said that the first office to go would be
that of the State Governor —that .a rubber stamp
could do the work of the Governor. Yet if any
party has enjoyed the society of the State Governor,
they have.
The deadly virus of it is its truth. As a
matter of fact, the ridiculous Strickland
menage is of use to no one in the commu-
nity barring the regular Government House
frequenters (who have more than sufficient
money to entertain themselves, anyhow),
and the State Labor Ministers. As regards
the general body of taxpayers, the only
change they get out of the large sum of
money which they are compelled to squander
annually on the superfluity that is Strick-
land is the amusement of watching his tire-
less struggle to find an A.D.C. who will re-
main for any length of time on the premises.
* * * *
“Lud”: It is cabled that Deeley, who
bought the Covent Garden Estate last year,
transfers it to Beecham and Ormrod. Deeley
paid £2,500,000 for the property, which in-
cludes Drury Lane Theatre, Covent Garden
Theatre, Waldorf Hotel, Aldwych Theatre,
Strand Theatre, Bow-street Police Court,
several printing offices, the National Sporting
Club and Covent Garden Market. The
theatres alone yield £24,000 a year in
ground rents, and Covent Garden Market
tolls run up to £25,000. The estate sold is
19 acres, and yet that fat porker, the Duke
of Bedford, keeps a bit. Towards the end of
the 18th century it was said that a fifth of
London had been built on the Bedford pro-
perty in 200 years. Of course the value has
gone racing ahead. The Market dues have
advanced from £17,000 to £25,000 in 10
years, and this is only a minor example of
Unearned Increment. George Russell,
cousin of a Duke of Bedford, was somewhat
of a Radical, and wrote: “It may have
been necessary for Henry VIII. to dissolve
the Religious houses, but the giving of their
land to his courtiers was a transaction which
even those who benefit can scarcely praise.”
.Such was the origin of the Bedford whack.
When the Bedfords got the estate, the whole
annual value was set down in the rate books
as £6 6s. Bd. In the face of such things who
can stand up and argue against the justice
of a tax on land values?
The \ ictorian Neglected Children’s Depart-
ment lately got its advertisement —and seem-
ingly earned it. The puff happened in the
Melbourne Coroner’s Court, where the “sub-
ject Avas a State infant, and the presiding
official chanted the praises of the Depart-
ment in this wise :
This child was a typical boarded-out child. It was
starved to death, and was dirty and verminous. It
was a disgrace to the Department. Now that the
child is dead the Department is quite satisfied that
everything was done for it. That is the extraordi-
JULIET UP-TO-DATE.
WILLIAM: "Rather cheeky of Miss Olbird to
come as Juliet, what?”
J ESS: "That's all right. She is Juliet as she
would be if she had lived.”
nary part of it. This child was starved to death, not
wilfully starved, but starved nevertheless. The per-
son who had charge of it did not know how to feed
it. There is no doubt that the child was in a filthy
condition. If a child can get into the condition this
one got into while under the care of the State, there
should be a change somewhere. I cannot understand
that a child’s slipping slowly down into death
should not have provoked comment.
You can’t say that the Neglected Children’s
Department is misnamed, anyhow.
GRASPING AT THE STRAW.
A NGELINA: “Oh, Edwin, this is so sudden!”
EDWIN (funking on it): "Quite a misunder-
standingl assure you. M-merely wanted
to know if it was time to go.”


TRAFFIC STOPPED.
THE KID WITH URGENT BUSINESS: “Well, isn’t this tough! Getting along nicely, and this broken-down old bag of tricks blocks the road!"


FISHING.


GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre=
served.•
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINSCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. AVe can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
EVERY DAY
mote people are proving that
IDI
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
• 'W-v;
" \
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONNAL
ITEMS
A recent birth notice in Sydney reads
like an announcement in a paper of three-
quarters of a century ago: “At Mimosa,
Double Bay, the wife of William Charles
Wentworth, of a daughter.” This W. C.
Wentworth is a barrister, admitted in Syd-
ney in 1895. He is son of Fitzwilliam
Wentworth, who is a son of the William
Charles Wentworth who made so much
early-Australian history.
“ NUTTY ”
JAMES, K.C.
and ex-Premier
(M.A.).
Timothy Joseph (“Ted”) O’Shea is one
of the new appointees to Bananaland’s
Leg. Council. He is a locally-born
Hibernian, and a member of a lead-
ing firm of Brisbane solicitors, of which
brother Pat is the head. “Ted’s” specialty
is police-court work, and when he is in form
his cross-examination can be heard at the
Pile light, in Moreton Bay. In the Council
his tendency to outspokenness should make
him the legitimate successor to the late
“Pom-pom” Forrest.
Butler Aspinall, Iv.C., is mentioned among
the counsel engaged in the Empress of Ire-
land case. A leading man in Admiralty,
Probate and Divorce, he is likely to obtain a
judgeship in that line. He is the second
son of Butler Cole Aspinall, the Victorian
barrister of last generation. Another son is,
or was, an actor, known in Australia and
England. B. C. Aspinall and C. A. Smvth,
London barristers, were foolishly imported
by the Argus as reporters, but quickly went
off to the Bar. The Argus took care that
its next two from England, Jeans and
Thompson, were not barristers. Aspinall’s
first big stroke for fame was in defending
the Eureka rioters in Melbourne. His other
remarkable case was the defence, in Sydney,
of O’Farrell, of the Clontarf shooting.
Snobs thought to cut him for that, but Edin-
burgh showed him particular favor. The
present Butler Aspinall was born in 1861.
Dad used to wheel him in a perambulator
about Melbourne.
BUCKING AGAIN.
Steps are being taken to form a bona-fide Farmers’
Union on the lines of the first union, which was
non-political, giving its members full political free-
dom. —Another horrible news item.
LAB. CANDIDATE: "This isn't such smooth-
going' as it used to be.”
The allegation of Mrs. Scott, of Rich-
mond (Vic.), that she was the fii’st white
girl born in Melbourne lias induced several
other old ladies to pipe their claims. Mrs.
Scott says she was born on July 1, 1544.
A Mrs. Carr, of Toorak, alleges that she
was born three years before that, in a sail-
ing vessel anchored at Sandridge (now Port
Melbourne), while a Mrs. Booker, of
Brighton, declares that her sister, now living
in Maoriland, was born in Melbourne in
1834. The oldest claimant still living in
Victoria and thus far heard from is a Miss
Sutton, of Williamstown, who was born on
February 16, 1840, and produces the bat-
tered family Bible to prove it.
Ambrose Patterson, the Melbourne artist
who is descending upon Adelaide with a
show, once earned his clam chowder at black-
and-white work in N’York. Being right
down to it on a particularly sad occasion, he
started making pencil portraits of people at
a public resort. The man he pictured first
dumped down a dollar for the drawing with
such avidity that Ambrose tried him with
another. This brought a second dollar ; but
the art patron then picked up his heels and
fled. Next day Patterson stumbled across
a portrait of his patron in a paper. He
was a notorious malefactor, and for know-
ledge of his whereabouts the police were
offering 2000 dollars.
Concerning a strenuous party who died
with his rifle at full-cock :
Rawiri Puhiraki, a Maori of great renown as a
fighting man and chivalrous enemy, has had a red
granite pile, 20ft. high, raised above his grave at
Tauranga (Bay of Plenty). It was he who, in 1864.
led Brown Brother’s great defence of Gate Pa at
Tauranga, when the white infantry and artillery
forces, under General Cameron, were given an
almighty wallop. It is reckoned that about 300
warriors under Puhiraki fought more than 1500 of
Cameron’s men. When the natives’ stronghold was
breached by artillery, and the assault sent forward,
Puhiraki and his crowd bolted for the back door;
but, finding escape impossible that way, returned
and tore into the charging column like a herd of
scalded devils. What remained of the column col-
lected itself during the night and implored of High
Heaven what had hit it. In the morning, having
received no answer from the other address, it went
round to inquire of John Maori, but he, in the
meantime, had remembered an appointment and
gone to keep it. Puhiraki was killed soon afterwards
while again making things unusually brisk at Te
ltanga. On his memorial stone is carved, amongst
other remarks: “This monument was erected on the
50th anniversary of his death, by the people of the
British and Maori races, to commemorate his chival-
rous and humane orders for the protection of un-
armed or wounded men who fell into the hands of
the Maoris, and for the respectful treatment of the
bodies of any of their enemies slain in battle.” He
made war a pleasant outing compared with some of
his contemporaries.
“Iron Pot” adds a postscript:—
The crier who adjourned the Court (B. 2/i/14)
omitted to refer to some very human characteristics
of the late John Dodds, Chief Justice of Tasmania.
His intellectual gifts included a somewhat remark-
able caoacitv for those branches of applied mathe-
matics which make for success in card games and
horse racing, and he did not allow the accomplishment
to rust in neglect. For a good many years the late
C.J. was regarded by cognoscenti as about the most
torrid of propositions for any tired soul who wanted
a flutter with the pasteboards. Dodds prided himself
on his knowledge of the technicalities ot the card-
room and racecourse, and whenever a “crook gam-
bling case came before him, his Honor was liable to
display a surprising and intimate knowledge of detail
which did much to elucidate the mysteries of the
transaction on which the case was based. Bike
most amateurs, however, he probably overestimated
his own flyness. A famous case of a decade ago
necessitated' the importation of a well-known profes-
sional racing man from another State, as expert
witness and general technical adviser to . counsel.
Before the case had gone very far, “the Chief’’ was
covering himself with glory by his shrewd queries into
the unholy technicalities, and the imported expert
was following the proceedings with evident interest.
\ barrister whispered a suggestion that his Honor
seemed to know a bit. The gunmetal visage of the
stranger relaxed for an instant and he whispered
back: “His Honor knows above a bit. But where
’is Honor will fall in bad some day is that ’e don’t
know enough to know what a ’ell of a lot there is
that ’e don’t know!” There is no record, however,
that the stranger’s prediction ever was fulfilled,
although there are plenty of witnesses to testify that
what his Honor did know he knew thoroughly.
“Mimosa”: Canada’s new Governor-Gen-
eral, Alexander of Teck, was one of lan
Hamilton’s staff-officers during the un-
pleasantness with brother Boer. These
s.o.’s, in order to distinguish them from mere
garden officers, wore a hand of Turkey red
on the collar of the tunic. One morning, a
member of the Queensland Bushmen’s Con-
tingent had been detailed for galloping duty.
Teck ordered him to gallop to Colonel Col-
ville, in command of the Imperial Yeomanry
(I.Y’s), and tell him to move his men out on
the extreme right flank. “Right-o,” said the
Horsetralian, and set sail without salute,
good-bye or farewell embrace. He quickly
headed the - yeomanry officer; in fact, nearly
knocked him off his horse with the impact
when he pulled up alongside. Colville looked
aghast, and asked him what he meant by not
saluting. The Queenslander quickly ex-
plained things his way, thus: “The bloke
back there with the General says you gotter
move your coves right away out there on the
right.” “Who gave you that order?” “I
don’t know who the h he was, but he
was one of those Turkey gobblers.”
“The Oldest Inhabitant” appears for the
accused :—•
Mrs. Ledwidge, who died at Sydney recently, aged
76, claimed, according to newspaper paragraphs, to
have had an experience of Power, the bushranger,
when her husband kept a publichouse at American
Yards, now Plumula (N.S.W.). Power had escaped
from Pentridge, and, stealing a police horse, had
ridden across the
border into N. S.
Wales on a visit to
an old friend. He
heard (so the story
runs) that the Led-
widges had gold,
and he wanted it.
So he stuck the
house up, and, says
the lady, while her
husband was away
looking for the
police, he brutally
assaulted her with
a gun stock because
she would not tell
him where the gold
was. Now, some
other ruffian must
have assumed
P o w e r’s name.
Power was scrupu-
lously courteous to
women—so much so
that at one time
two ancient ladies
offered to provide
for him if he were
released, in conse-
ouence of his cour-
tesy to them when
sticking up a coach
or something of the
sort, and because of
his general reputa-
tion in that regard.
EX-PREMIER
ELLIOTT
LEWIS , who
didn’t get the
Chief Justiceship
of Tasmania.
The equal state of parties in the Federal
House of Reps, was responsible for unusually
good attendances last session. There
were 34 sitting days, and the best record
was Conroy’s. He troubled the House only
24 times. Labor-man Mahon was runner-up
with 25. No less than 31 members attended
every brawl; while Bruce Smith gave the
House 27 opportunities to observe how Ches-
terfield would have behaved if there weren’t
a greater than Chesterfield to exhibit the
pattern.
It is firmly believed by the Earle
Government (Tas.) that Elliot Lewis sur-
rendered the leadership of the Liberal party
to Solomon on the understanding that he
(.Lewis) was to have Dodds’s job as Chief
Justice, Dodds being then nearly dead. How-
ever, Dodds fought Death to the finish, and
during Solomon’s reign never gave a chance
to appoint Lewis or anyone else. Which
was unlucky for Lewis, because with the
Earle Government in power a frog is as
likely to grow feathers as Lewis was to be-
come Chief Justice.
ASTIST EMILY PAUL, commissioned by
the International Socialists to paint Cook (the
electorate, not Joe) red.
The young baronet Denis Anson, who lost
his life in the Thames through a bit of
bravado, was a Maorilander; his father,
Frederick Arthur Anson, married, in 1878,
Agnes, daughter of James F. Roberts, of
Akaroa. The baronetcy dates from 1831,
the first holder being a distinguished gen-
eral. The second was killed in a railway
accident. The third was one of the greatest
Constitutional lawyers that Oxford ever pro-
duced. He died only last year. The
name was originally Adams, but the
father of the first baronet changed
it to the family name of the Lichfield peer*
age, with which he was connected. The
family has undertaken to provide for the
widow and children of Mitchell, the bands-
man who tried to save Denis Anson and
was lost in the attempt.
“Jeames” reports a Painful Episode:
A cable of last week mentions the divorce of one
“Arthur Sempill, commander of the battleship
Dominion.” The usual old Hotelkeeper is men-
tioned, also the Woman, and the ltoom. Further-
more, the customary Letter is referred to which
“confirmed petitioner’s worse fears.” .Well do
I remember the Hon. Arthur Forbes-Sempill in the
early morning, as it were, of his married life.
Ornate dressing was, with him, in those glad days,
a perfect hobby. If it was the custom, amongst the
super-knuts of the period, to wear (say) white-topped
patent-leather boots, with a grey top-hat and a
Zingari tie, then Forbes-Sempill did it ruthlessly. To
see him parading the Melbourne Block in his Sun-
day best was the equivalent of regarding a peram-
bulating rainbow. Also, he was small and neat, and
the owner of features that a beauty actor might
envy. Many a maiden heart in that city ached With
rapture at the spectacle of him and his beautiful cos-
tumes entering the Melbourne Club. And then hi|
fluffy little round-faced girl from England journeyed
to these wild parts alone, and married him. I see
by the cable that her' name is Muriel—which ex-
plains a great deal. Very few marriages where OH6
of the parties is named Muriel turn out satisfactorily,
A far better name for long-distance-wearing pur-
poses is Jane. The only Jane whom I ever heard
of as figuring in the courts was Jane Cakebread, the
celebrated inebriate, and her proper name, it turned
out afterwards, was Jeanette.
THE WRATH OF TOOMBS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Toombs, working himself into a fresh passion
of indignation, complained bitterly of cavalier treat-
ment at the hands of the Chief Railway Commissioner.
On a recent occasion he had been ordered off the
Commissioner’s train when offering his advice respect-
ing a drain. This was unbearable. Mr. Toombs
talked about this matter at the top of his voice for
nearly half an hour.
-—Report of N.S.W. Assembly debates.
Hark! from the Toombs a doleful sound—
An awe-inspiring bray
That echoes round and round and round
Like some huge fallen tray.
The welkin shudders and retreats ;
The circumambient air
Withdraws itself in quivering sheets
And leaves things cold and bare.
And why ? Ah, ask not, feckless wight:
In reverent silence bend
And learn what wicked crimes invite
This wicked world to end.
For lo ! in sad and evil hour,
The man who runs our trains
Was visited by One with power
And knowledge as to drains.
Proud, purblind worm! He little knew
(Such were his mental glooms)
That on this subject there are few
Who doff not hats to Toombs.
As Coke on Law, so Toombs on Drains,
As all the world well knows ;
And yet the man who runs our trains
Did —what do you suppose?
Alas! Woe’s me! lie threw him out!
Now, through the reeling glooms,
When Judgment Day is brought about’
We’ll hear the voice of Toombs!
Humanity, despite its sins,
May dodge a dozen Dooms,
But never while the old world spins
Klude the wrath of Toombs!
N.S.XV.
P. E.


THE WORLD RENOWNED BRAND
Capstan
NAYY
CUT
(f
S?
m.
u u
L
>
y y
u
THE BEST HfflfT CUT INTHEWORiD
Cigarettes, in Three Strengths—Mild, Medium, Full.
Tobacco, in Three Strengths Mild, Medium, Full. (Also in Plug form)
SOLD EVERYWHERE
W.D.&H.O.WILLS.


High-Class Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lec us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
B\»JCYR\JvS> CO* Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS ffl. COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This summarises the 12 months’ accounts
of the Commonwealth, so far as they are yet avail-
able :
Credit balance to start with.. .. £2,043,305
Revenue 21,733,450
Total available £24,370,755
Expenditure (revenue account) .. 23,208,427
Balance unspent £1,108,328
Revenue expenditure £23,208,427
Loan money spent 2,150,042
Special works trust account (tele-
phones, etc.) 10,494
Total expenditure £25,440,903
Less payments to State .. .. 0,282,999
Net Commonwealth expenditure on
all accounts £19,157,9G4
The revenue expenditure went as follows: —
Postal and telegraph services.. .. £5,101,234
Invalid and old-age pensions.. .. 2,578,484
Maternity allowance .. .. .. 075,995
Defence 2,989,531
Other departments, including sugar
and other bounties .. .. 2,240,874
Construction of fleet 758,100
Works apart from fleet 2,575,144
Total £10,985,428
No details are available concerning the Loan ex-
penditure. The Acts which authorised the Common-
wealth to start on its career as a borrower mentioned
the following purposes: Construction of Kalgoorlie-
Port Augusta Railway; acquisition of land in Federal
territory (the Canberra blunder) ; purchase of site for
George Reid’s accommodation in London ; redemption
of N.T. deficit bills, issued by S. Aus. ; repayment of
money spent on Oodnadatta line (taken over by Com-
monwealth) out of revenue. The £2,150,042 spent
during the past year was no doubt in pursuance of
that general authority.
So far, apparently, the Commonwealth has spent
the following borrowed money, including debt taken
over:—•
Northern Territory (debt taken over) £3,359,891
Port Augusta-Oodnadatta railway
loans (taken over) .. .. 2,071,058
Borrowed and spent, 30/G/T3 . . 1,848,502
Borrowed and spent last year .. 2,150,042
Total debt £9,435,493
This is exclusive, of course, of the value
of properties transferred from the States and
on which interest is paid to the States.
The Commonwealth has not, so far, gone on
to the market for money in the ordinary way. Under
the Australian Notes Act and amendments, the Com-
monwealth may issue notes, holding against them
a gold reserve “of not less than one-fourth of the
amount of notes issued.” Bigjohn Forrest, mistrust-
ing such a reserve, decided to adhere to the one
originally fixed —one-fourth of the note issue up to
£7,000,i)00, the full amount of the note issue in
excess of £7,000,000. The note issue at present is
about £9,700,000, the gold reserve about £4,250,000.
The note issue has been shrinking, and in the pre-
sent unsatisfactory state of the law, which does
not require the banks to hold any Common-
wealth notes at all, it is not safe to assume a per-
manent issue of more than £8,000,000. Under the
present law, which Treasurer Bigjohn disregards
because he says it is unsafe, the Commonwealth may
hold of that as little as £2,000,000 in gold. This
would leave £0,000,000 in trust, represented by
paper money issued in exchange for hard cash. The
Commonwealth has hitherto, instead of going to
Cohen in the ordinary way, gone to this trust fund.
But there’s an end to that, and it isn’t far off. In
the last two years £4,004,544 has been borrowed
and spent, so there’s less than £2,000,000 more to
be safely got from that quarter. After that, the
Government must either go to Cohen or get in more
revenue from taxation.
Matters would not be so difficult if the 255.-a-head
crime hadn’t been committed. For 10 years from
July 1, 1910, the Commonwealth is required (1)
to pay 255. per head to the States, which have far
less need of money, and (2) to give special lifts to
Westralia and Tasmania. Since that dreadful arrange-
ment came into force the Commonwealth has paid out
the following sums: —
1911 .. .. £5,003,191
1912 . . .. 5,824,423
1913 .. .. 0,119,930
1914 .. . . 0,282,999
Australia has had that burden fastened upon its shoul-
ders, and can’t shake it off for the next six years ;
and already Cook is talking of raising money on loan
in order to carry out the shipbuilding programme
and other Defence works which are neither permanent
nor directly productive. It will be monstrous if any
such shiftless policy is sanctioned; but the shocking
arrangement made in 1910 supplies a pretext for. sub-
mitting it. In effect, however, it is no excuse at all.
The payment to the States means that citizens, as
taxpayers of the States, are relieved of taxation up
to at present about £0,250,000 a year, and are, there-
fore, the better able to pay that amount of extra
taxation to the Commonwealth.
Out of revenue thus far the following payments
have been made towards the purchase of a navy:—
1910 . • • • £OO,OOO
1911 .. .. 1,135,000
1912 .. .. 1,108,171.
1913 .. .. 004,397
1914 .. .. 758,100
Total .. •• £3,005,734
Apart from the money spent on purchase, the Defence
expenditure last year is stated as £2,989,531 , but
that does not include new Defence works. The total
estimate for the year, including these works and
£1,002,432 towards the purchase of the fleet, was
£5,271,853, plus loan expenditure represented by
debt incurred for machinery at Cockatoo Island, etc.
Including this latter, the total estimate was
£5 740 853. The actual total outlay was apparently
about £5,495,000. This means about 225. 3d. per
head The Defence expenditure of Great Britain is
325. 3d., of France 28s. 7d„ and of Germany 21s. sd.
The German figure looks very small, and the Aus-
tralian figure looks comparatively big. But the
bigness of the Australian figure doesn’t matter because
so much of the money conies back to the people in
payment for “lost time.” The German doesn’t
regard time spent in training as “lost,” and, there-
fore, pays precious little for it. The municipal taxa-
tion of Sydney or Melbourne would look very small
too if every citizen were called on to put in 14 days
a year at road-making free. Any statement
of national expenditure per head on Defence, conse-
quently, needs to be looked at very hard, and for
the foregoing reason the comparative figures can’t
be accepted at their face value.
The Bank of Noutii Queensland :
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1905.. 2310 21p.c.= 1326 954 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 24 „ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 24 ~ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4' „ „ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 ~ ~ 2122 4000 —21,67 S
June, 1908.. 3677 4 ~ ~ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 ~ „ 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 ~ ~ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641' 5 „ „ 2666 1975 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 „ ~ 2668 5000 20,824
Dec., 1910.. 4838 5 „ ~ 2371 2167 22,991
June, 1911.. 4851 5 „ „ 2671 4000 21,171
Dec., 1911.. 5383 6 „ „ 3197 2186 23,357
June, 1912.. 6062 6 „ „ 3214 2848 26,205
Dec., 1912.. 7601 6 ~ „ 4192 3409 29,614
June, 1913.. 8376 7 „ ~ 5445 2931 32,545
Dec., 1913.. 8406 7 „ „ 5688 2718 35,263
June, 1914.. 8479 7 „ „ 5688 2500 291 35,554
The £2500 shown as written off for the past half-
year is dropped into a contingency account, and
most of the other amounts in the same column have
gone in the same direction. Some time ago it was
understood that all the old doubtful securities had
been either got rid of or written down to present
value or under-; presumably, therefore, the con-
tingency fund is an inner reserve to protect the
bank against possible losses on the newer business.
This policy of socking away some of the extra-good
profits of very prosperous times is the right one:
it isn’t a fair thing to make dull years pay for
losses on the realisation of securities taken when
values were high and money was easily earned.
That was the mistake Queensland made 20-odd
years ago; though certainly, so far as this bank
is concerned, it may be pleaded that it was born
almost at the top of the boom of the late ’Bo’s, and
didn’t have much opportunity to do anything but
make mistakes before the bubble burst.
However, with all the errors of its infancy atoned
for and wiped out, and with a record of 20 years
to guarantee that for the future it is going to be a
sober citizen, the Bank of North Queensland has of
late made quite extraordinary progress. Here is 12
years’ history in brief: —
Liabilities.
1902. 1913. 1914.
Deposits .. £236,311 £865,840 £1,046,290
Bills, etc. .. 90,519 61,149 94,068
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 123,501 334,725 508,433
Advances . . 298,422 738,814 770,666
Premises, etc. .. 20,027 53,500 67,500
The capital meantime has been increased from
£lOO,OOO to £162,500 ; and, besides the visible
growth of reserves, there can be no question about
an internal improvement also. The bank has indeed
got back so firmly into public confidence, and has in
consequence been so favored with deposits, that, in
spite of the increase of capital, the outside money in
the business is very nearly £6 for every £1 of the
shareholders’ funds (capital and visible reserves com-
bined) ; and, although that is a safe enough propor-
tion, if advance business can be secured to justify
the management in accepting deposits as rapidly
as they have been available in the last two or three
years, the time can’t be very far off when further
capital will be dcs’rable. When the time comes
there won’t be any difficulty about that if anything
like the present rate of earnings can be maintained ;
since the dividend was raised to 7 p.c. the surplus
profits shown have been sufficient to pay another 34
p.c. Moreover, this excellent rate of earnings has
been maintained side by side with a strong cash
position ; on June 30, notwithstanding a considerable
spring in the advances and the expenditure of a few
thousands on Sydney premises which ornament the
end of Bridge-street, the liquid assets represented
45 p.c. of all the deposits and other liabilities; and
if the other figures tell of progress, these mention
caution with an equal amount of emphasis.
Micic Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), who sell
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and sporting goods, and
began as a co. three years ago with £20,6<7 oi its
capital represented by goodwill and other hypotheti-
cal assets: — ,
Written Towards
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves. Deficit.
April, £_ _* ± ± 20,677
1912!! 12,268 10 p.c.=Booo 1132 3136 17,541
1913.. 13,128 10 „ ~9000 1381 2747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 ~ ~9000 1555 2740 12,004
The record thus far is, therefore, very consistent and
very good. Starting with a capital of £BO,OOO, now
increased to £90,000, a 10 p.c. div. has been main-
tained, and, in addition, over £B5OO has been put
by towards reserves. Meantime, according to the
reports and accounts, considerable sums have been
taken out of profits to counterbalance depreciation,
and there must be a few hundreds laid by to provide
for future bad debts. The fund for this purpose is
not included with the reserves. Moreover, other
people’s money at risk in the business is compara-
tively little. To trade creditors and others the co.
owes £26,271, and as against that it had £7842 in
cash on April 30. So far, then, the position is very
satisfactory; and a further satisfactory feature of
the case is that people want tobacco and haircuts, and
to a great extent fish-hooks and sporting goods also,
whether times are bad or good. On the other side, the
only remark of a wet-blanket sort that can be made
is that £61,699 of the co.’s assets are stock-in-trade;
and there is no way of testing that item. The other
large lines are fixtures and plant, £16,688, and
book debts, £21,446. The co. owns no freeholds,
and, generally speaking, the assets are not gilt-edged.
So long as the management is right, the business is
right. If that fell to pieces, the present fine profits
would fall to pieces, too, and the security for the
principal would look very doubtful. In short, it is
the kind of stock that is well worth considering for
yourself, if you are wideawake and in the city every
day, but not one to recommend to your helpless
elderly maiden aunt of small means in the country.
* * * *
The Farmers’ Co-operative Auctioneer-
ing Co. (Waikato, M.L.) :
Bonus
Dividends and Written
Jan., Profits. (8 p.c.). Rebate. Off. Reserves.
1910 .. £5,491
1911 .. £10,470 £4538 £2534 £750 8,139
1912 .. 14,696 7336 2965 1000 11,534
Premiums on shares . . £459 11,993
1913 .. 18,922 9832 4326 16,757
Premiums on new shares, £436 17,193
1914 .. 19,105 10,653 4991 20,654
This co. has its headquarters at Hamilton, the rail-
way centre of the AVaikato, which is the most pro-
gressive agricultural district of the North Island.
Like all these Maoriland farmers’ cos. it has to do
a lot of financing. As a rule, the M.L. farmer starts
on his job with very little money. The returns
being fairly certain, he can “buy” a farm even if he
has in his pocket very little more than enough to pay
the commission on the sale: the vendor reckons he is
pretty right so long as he knows the purchaser will
work. One result is that this co.’s book debts run
to £234,545; and as the share capital is only
£137,842, this means a considerable liability. That
view of the business is shown in detail in the next
table
1911. 1913. 1914.
Capital and reserves .. £86,338 £161,107 £177,080
Liabilities . . .. 72,872 93,173 84,211
Property accounts . . 19,702 17,625 25,063
Book debts . . . . 136,688 236,838 234,545
Stock 5,092 8,794 13,081
Cash 231 24 103
However, the co. knows its risks, and is building up
reserves with commendable speed, which is another
way of saying that the dividends to shareholders and
bonuses (or rebate commissions) to clients are kept
reasonable. The first table shows a nice growth ot
reserves; but, besides those, there is a special reserve
of £14,000 for doubtful debts. In the table the
appropriations to this fund are not included with
the profits, although it is asserted by the directors
that ample provision has been made for all known
bad and doubtful debts independent of this special
appropriation. The position is, therefore, better
than it looks; and even its looks are a credit to the
people who are responsible for them.
The Broken Hill Prop, offered a sweet
thing when it sent out the prospectus of its £600,000
debenture issue at 97, carrying 6 p.c. interest.* There
is to be a cumulative sinking fund of £30,000 a
year; debentures may be repurchased by the co. at
or under par (if offered) prior to 1921, and there-
after they are to be redeemed by annual drawings.
The security is “a mortgage on the freehold and
leasehold properties of the co. in the Commonwealth
of Australia,” other than three unimportant leases for
clay, and “a floating charge on the general undertak-
ing and assets of the co., exclusive of any uncalled
or unpaid capital.” The present £600,000 is part
of a £1,000,000 issue, and the other £400,000 will
also be secured on these assets. The co. is putting
a million into the iron and steel business at New-
castle, and with good organisation there is every
reason to expect this undertaking will be profitable.
If it isn’t, it won’t be for want of excellent raw
material, for besides having the Iron Knob to draw
on—a tremendous supply—it has other handy iron-
ore deposits at command. In addition to this asset,
there are the mine at Broken llill, the smelting and
refining works (silver-lead and spelter) at Port Pirie
(S.A.), and the coke works at Bellambi (N.S.W.).
'The mine probably has no more than four or five
years’ life at the present rate of extraction; but
this may be extended. The chances are that the
works will be kept going on a smaller scale for
much longer. The B. H. South, B. 11. North, British,
Zinc Corporation and other big producers at Broken
Hill have no lead or zinc smelting or refining works,
so that from them (and some of them have close-on
20 years’ mining visible ahead of them) it may
reasonably be expected that a lot of work will be
got for the plants at Port Pirie. Further, at the end
of November last l.he co. had liquid assets worth
£888,117 more than the liabilities. For the next
few years, unless something like a catastrophe hap-
pens, very substantial profits will be made out of the
silver-lead-zinc side of the business; and by the
end of that time it is reasonable to expect that,
with increased population and national development,
the iron and steel business will be firmly on its legs,
and making good profits.
* * « *
An awfu’ careful lot are the Board of the
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., except as regards fees
and travelling exes. Over their £600,000 debenture
issue they wouldn’t give the brokers a commission
outside the underwriters, who had been allotted 2
p.c. Australian Stock Exchanges hadn’t felt so
snubbed since they had the row over Block 10 years
back. The Exchanges took the _ cold-shouldering
badly, and stopped tendering by their members until
the rules were observed. This turn of the screw
brought the underwriters in Melbourne into long
confab, with the co., ar.d they agreed to pay up 10s.
p.c. com. to any broker who might apply for and get
bonds. Thus the Prop. Board was kept out of the
fight. As the co. must have another £400,000 there
hasn’t been any great hurry to make a market for
the underwriters, who have been given a fee that
will make the late John Darling turn in his grave.
Automatic Telephones will declare a 5 p.c.
dividend soon. The co. began life with high hopes,
but the Western Electric butted in with its more or
less different system and secured Maoriiana at a
very low price by binding itself to do almost any-
thin"- The Automatic is doing nine-tenths of the
Commonwealth work, and has completed £lOO,OOO
worth at Perth. Brighton, Geelong, Newtown and
Glebe and has the contract for seven more Sydney
conversions at the price of £lOO,OOO. To play
ore owner against another no doubt means lower
tenders ; but it’s bad to mix the systems, and that
is what is being done in Melbourne. The Auto-
matic had to do all the Australian pioneeiing con-
verting old offices from the manual to the auto-
matic trying to teach old hands the good of the
new machines, etc. There are 100,000 pref. shaies of
£1 (10s paid) and 100,000 deferred shares of Is.,
which take half profits after payment of 10 p.c. to
prefs. The co. should pay 10 p.c. next year on the
anticipations of the present contract ■ but,. of. course,
the business is one that peters out, and within three
or four years it, will be down to extensions the
average normal increase of such being from 10 p.c.
to 15 p.c. „ „
* * *
Westralia produced 614,17G0z. of fine
gold during the first half of this year, or 24,1930 z.
less than for the same term in 1913. The drop
was largely due to the Ivar.hoe plant being damaged
and hung up by fire for a month or two, and to the
stoppage of ore-treatment at the Associated North-
ern Co.’s Ora Banda show and the Burbanks Main
Lode mine, Coolgardie. Returns for the remaining
half of the year are expected to show up better com-
pared with those for 1913 ; but as few new mines are
coming to light, and several old ones have the hand
of death upon them, it is not at all certain that
anticipations will be realised. #
Particulars of Golden Horseshoe’s opera-
tions for the past financial year are to hand. The
accounts show a surplus of £42,698, increased by
the amount brought forward to £78,300. Of this,
£12,500 has been absorbed by the redemption of
debentures and £60,000 by a 4s. div., leaving £5BOO
to carry forward. Reserves are estimated at 715,49 b
tons, containing 291,4150 z. fine, as compared with
714 141 tons, containing 288,2070 z. at the close of
the ’previous year, the average in each case being the
same. The manager points out that there is still a
lot of known payable ore not included in the re-
serves, further development being necessary before
it can be measured up. He concludes thus: No
anxiety r.eed be felt with reference to the future
of‘the mine. It only requires the preparatory work
—especially winzing—to be a little further ahead
for the good developments which we have had to be
reflected in the output.” At the end of the year
there were still £81,300 of debentures outstanding.
To continue the redemption of debentures and' to
retui n to shareholders 10 p.c. on the present price
of shares the co. will have to do a great deal
better. Can it? # ,
Another year has been wound up by Boul-
der No. 1 (W.A.) without a dividend. The accounts
show a working balance of £232. Add the accumu-
lated credit of £8873, and you get a total of
£9105 which is carried forward. Tribute parties
were at work on the co.’s Boulder lease during the
year, but, owing to the low average of the ore
obtained, very little royalty accrued. Expenditure
at the now-punctured St. George leases has been re-
duced to a minimum. Every bit of ground except
that on which the plant and buildings stand has been
abandoned and exemption secured on what is left.
When sufficient inducement offers the machinery is
to be disposed of; meantime it is idle. The manager
reports that several shows were examined during
the year, but none worth having was found.^
Oroya Links’ accounts for last year show
n credit of £20,462. This is increased to £23,180
by the sum brought forward, and with £5OOO
written off for development and exploration, £lB,lBO
is left to carry on. Liquid assets are given as
£63 790. The total revenue for the year, including
£1696 royalty from tributors, was £151,820. Two
sets of ore reserves are furnished. That of the
mine-superintendent is 146,775 tons, worth 245. 3d. ;
that of the nominal general managers 147,003 tons,
averaging 245. 9d. Both reckon there is an addi-
tional 60,000 tons of probable ore not yet suffici-
ently blocked out for measurement and sampling.
JU * * *
Doolette, sen., cheering shareholders up
at the Boulder meeting: “We have in the mine to-
day a value of nearly two millions. Allowing half
of that as profit, you will be able to realise the
strong position we are in in respect to profits for
the future. Then there are the possibilities of future
developments, and in a mine like ours there is
always the chance of fresh discoveries.... During the
last 20 years it has produced £9,224,861 worth of
gold, ar.d paid £4,350,550 in divs. We have not
only got a handsome cash balance, but also liquid
assets far exceeding the original capital of the co.
Indeed, if nothing whatever was allowed for plant,
machinery, ore reserves or cost of mine, we have
nearly a quarter of a million in liquid assets.” Turn-
ing to mining costs, dearth of new mines, and the
dead set made by the unions against contract work
on some parts of the Westralian fields, Doolette said:
“The men must surely realise that the cost under
present conditions is as much as the industry can
stand, in view of the great depth at which the mines
are being operated and the considerable shrinkage in
values. The mines working at profit in W.A. to-day
can be reckoned on the fingers of your two hands.
Many that contributed in the past to the wealth of
the State and to the prosperity of the industry are
now derelict, and comparatively few have arisen to
take their places.... It is regrettable that the
energy and enterprise which characterised prospect-
ing there 15 or 20 years ago has died out.... With
vigorous prospecting lots of discoveries of auriferous
country would, I think, still be made. It is up to
the Government to go ahead with gold prospecting,
and not rely entirely on individual effort.” In brief,
give us .another taste of the poison of Socialism !
* * * *
Tindals (W.A.) lias again disappointed
its admirers. As the mine, as a whole, cannot be
relied on to pay for its upkeep, the Board has
decided to confine attention to the north end, where
ore worth 385., or thereabouts, over the plates, and
another 225. in the tailings is expected to be met
with. • But. as has been pointed out over and over
again on this page, the trouble with the mines in
the district where Tindals is situated is that the
shoots are short and dip rapidly, and as the country
lock is very hard they do not pay to follow. Tin-
dals has been made to furnish a lot of ore for crush-
ing, but its record shows that there has been no
profit and much loss in the work. In the past,
shareholders have been told time after time that
certain ore blocked out was worth so much. So it
was; but by the time mining and milling costs
were debited, and the expenditure on dead work to
reach the ore charged up, there was never enough
left to make ends meet, lot alone allow for depre-
ciation of plant and equipment and pay interest on
capital invested. Things may come right some day,
but the odds aie against it.
Golden Bole (W.A.) is about ready to
order a shroud. The tribute has not been profitable
during the past half-year, and the holders of it are
now eyaniding some residues prior to clearing out.
The co. had a cash balance of £6OO or thereabouts a
few months ago, but probably only sufficient of that
amount is now left to pay for a decent burial.
Ivalgoorlie and Boulder Firewood Co.,
which makes a good living out of the local mines, has
given gas-producer plants the best advt. they have
got to date in W.A. The co. now owns the Beria C'onsOls
(late Lancefield), and as it has a line laid down from
the mine into the heart of the bush it would naturally
be the last to go in for gas power if it was not
satisfied that by so doing a big saving could be
effected. Three 250-h.p. generators have been ordered
by the Board, and it is estimated that 7000 tons of
firewood, valued at £4500, will be saved annually
by substituting gas for steam power.
* * * *
“Boronia”: According to geologist Goeczel
and others who should know what they are talking
about, there is a large oil basin between the Black-
wood ltiver at Cape Leeuwin and the mouth of the
Warren River. It is estimated that the basin is a
mile wide at the Warren, broadening to 15 miles
at the Blackwood, 50 miles away. Besides very
favorable geological indications, there is evidence of
the presence of petroleum. Large patches of oily
scum are frequently seen in the sea off the coast, and
some of it has been analysed and pronounced to be
petroleum. Also bitumen, which is the residue of
oil, can be found on the beach and in some spots a
mile or so inland. At times the water of the Black-
wood and Warren is pungently tainted with it; at
night, particularly, the smell of the stuff on which
the Standard Oil Co. bloats is remarkably strong.
One would naturally think that the present Govern-
ment, with its oft-repeated assertion that it is
simply dying to open up the resources of the country,
and seeing that our navy will be a large consumer of
the new fuel, would do something to definitely ascer-
tain just what there is in it all; but the Scaddan
people have done nothing. If it were a basin of
loans how they would rush it!
* * * *
A correspondent (B. 12/3/’l4)
says that “Japs are allowed to cart away iron ore
from Yampi, in the Nor’-West, by the shipload, appa-
rently on paying a small royalty to a Queensland
syndicate.” For the past 20 years the locality has
been worked by pearling luggers and beche-de-mer
schooners, and hardly a month passes without a
pearling vessel of some description being in the
locality. I have myself worked this place during
the past three years for several months of each year,
and can positively assert that no foreign ship, Jap-
anese or otherwise, has ever been within coo-ee of
the place during that time, and that no mining
operations have been carried on. The country ad-
jacent to Yampi Sound is said to be wonderfully rich
in iron ore, within convenient reach of the coast.
L. R. Menzies, who gave his name to an early Cool-
gardie field, is at present up this way on a general
prospecting tour, and is expected back in Broome
in July. He may have something reliable to report
on his return. Some months ago it was rumored
about Broome that the Japanese Government was
prepared to take several hundred thousand tons of
iron ore from Yampi Sound, where there were conven-
ient shipping facilities, the ore to be procured,
handled and shipped by white labor, provided it was
allowed to be carried away in Japanese bottoms.
Perhaps this rumor has gathered frills by the way.
* * * *
Carpathia Tin, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), has
gradually increased its weekly production of tin-
oxide concentrates to 17 tons. For 10 weeks the
battery crushed 1660 tons ore. for 124 J tons of con-
centrates, assaying from 56 p.c. to 70 p.c. The price
given by the buyer would be interesting informa-
tion, and there really isn’t any reason why the net
proceeds of the shipments shouldn’t be given.
Vulcan tin (N.Q.) always gives the information.
On the average it has taken 13.3 tons of Carpathia
ore to produce one ton of concentrates, but the
quality has lately shown considerable improvement:
660 tons ore treated in June returned 56 tons of
concentrates, assaying 65 p.c. In May 725 tons
were crushed for 37 tons concentrates, assaying
from 65 p.c. to 69 p.c. Assays of concentrates
should, of course, be given in terms of
pure tin, upon which the price is computed by the
ore-buver. Recent returns should be highly profit-
able, and shareholders may get something, unless the
directors purchase the Southern Cross mill to handle
the accumulated seconds. The Southern Cross cer-
tainlv doesn’t want the mill to treat its own ore,
for the excellent reason that it has none visible.
* * * *
The time being again ripe, the Sydney
people who hold the bulk of the shares in the Car-
pathia (N.S.W.) decided to pool their scrip, with
the result that, the bears having to cover, the price
has been bounced up from under 10s. to about 16s.
The mine certainly is looking better, and has the


The Mutual Life s Citizens’
Assurance Company Ltd.
(“THE M.L.C.”)
Lifz Assurance on the Co-operative Plan.
By the Constitution of “The M.L.C.” 80 per
cent, of the divisible profits of the Ordinary
Branch are apportioned to With-Profit Policy-
holders in that Branch, and the remaining
20 per cent, to the Shareholders, who under-
take to conduct the business of the Branch
at an expense rate not exceeding 15 per cent,
of the income.
The holder of a With-Profit Policy in
the Ordinary Branch of the M.L.C.
has the satisfaction of knowing that
his policy has the advantages of
A LOW EXPENSE RATE,
STRONG RESERVES, and
EXCELLENT BONUS PROSPECTS.
«
to ensure
when ordering 1 Conveyor
Belting:, Hose, Packing^,
etc.. Is to specify
(y
mm
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
•*-GOODS
You can then rely on LONG
SERVICE.
TENDERS and SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
220 page Catalogue on
DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
Melbourne, Sydney.
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane.
Wellington, Christchurch
Are you profits entirely at your command? Think
it over, it’s a big question. Go back in your mind’s
eye to jour factory or plant—does everything there
work full time for profit? llow about your machine
pulleys—do they completely stop a few seconds some-
times and run only half-way many times? That’s
wasting profits. “Pioneer” leather belting on all
your drives will stop that waste. “Pioneer” has a
grip that never slips : keeps your pulleys running
at full speed all the time. It runs slacker than any
other belting, and this means greater power convey-
ance with less strain on shafting and friction on
bearings. Let our nearest office give you prbfit-
helping particulars. “Pioneer” is made only by
J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., Pioneer Works, 117 York
Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets), and sold in
Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street,
Melbourne; in South Australia by J. McKell, Timp-
son Street, Port Adelaide; in Queensland by Queens-
land Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Aus-
tralia by Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth;
in Broken Hill by Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
For rapid arid accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
* » * »
Extract from The City Review, London, January
17, 1914, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.:—“This led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs of the
Society, with the result that we anticipated. Those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investiga-
tion (December 31, 1911) the Society was sound and
solvent, and able to meet all its liabilities, immedi-
ate and prospective, and they expressed the emphatic
opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mis-
management and incapacity made against the direc-
tors and managers were wholly unjustified.”* [4
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has the advantage of
lightness in weight, combined with great durability.
Its long life is accounted for by the fact that the
water preserves the wood. Catalogue from The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sid-
ney (head office).*
Ample evidence of the increasing popularity of
the Hornsby manufactures is the fact that no' less,
than three mining cos.—Goldswortli Gold Mines
Ltd., LTralla; The Phoenix Gold Recovery Co., Hill-
grove ; and The True Blue Mines, West Wyalong—
within one week after exhaustive inquiries have
placed their order for the “Hornsby” Suction Gas
Engine and Plant. These plants are recognised by
experts to be thoroughly up to date, simple to work
and a vast saving in fuel used, charcoal or coke
being all that is required to produce the gas, and
the small amount of attention required. R. Hornsby
and Sons Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [2
* * * *
Harringtons Ltd., the Photographic Merchants, of
380 George Street, Sydney, will give the highest
returns for all kinds of residues, large quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash' and lemel,
process worker’s residues, plating baths and sm-
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Harrington’s assay department can execute assavs
for jewellers within two or three hours, and pro-
spectors and others are assured of immediate attention.
All kinds of analytical and metallurgical work can
be executed promptly, and advice given on all
branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy. The
whole of the work is directed by a qualified analvst
and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, London,
Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England, IT.M.
Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Harringtons
can also arrange to send large parcels of sweeps,
residues, ores, etc., direct to Messrs. Johnson & Sons,
London. *
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical!
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street
Sydney.* ”
* » * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent:
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereaghi
Street, Sydnej'.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and!
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro--
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo'
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’' Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilavs
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained 1
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, ami
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and PnosrECTORS write
to 11. B. Silberbebg and Co„ Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles 5 chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
’Phone
CITY —8332.
Poldi Steel
FOR GREATEST ECONOMY IN MACHINING.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
advantage nowadays of the service of an experienced
man like J. M. Newman as consulting engineer ; but
that the look of things underground has little or
nothing to do with the market may be judged by
the fact that fully-paids are at 10s. while contribs.
are at 16s.
* » * *
The results from the Strathbogie shaft of
the Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) should have an im-
portant bearing on the future of deep-lead mining
in the Emmaville district, owing to its situation
several miles farther down the lead, west from
Chandler’s shaft. The junction of the Vegetable
Creek and Graveyard leads is also supposed to
occur adjacent to this area. Any success here
would mean the exploiting of miles of virgin coun-
try. Skinner’s shaft is of direct importance to
the V.C. Co., with regard to the ground between
the Rock shaft and Chandler’s, and now the basalt
has been passed through sinking should proceed
pretty rapidly.
* * * *
The Grafton Copper Mine, at Cangai
(N.S.W.), continues to plug along steadily in a
small way, in between periodical strikes and other
labor troubles. Recent operations show a balance
on the right side, but nothing in comparison with
past glories. Considering the way the show has
been exploited, it does very well to continue showing
a profit at all.
A Melbourne co. is to have another shot
at Webb’s silver mine. This property is situated
some 10 miles from Emmaville (N.S.W.), and much
money was expended on it 20 years ago. The shaft
is down 600 ft. and the lode is said to carry good
silver values at the bottom. The width runs to
12ft., with lead and zinc in addition to silver.
Everything, of course, depends on the metal con-
tents, but with modern processes it should be a fair
mining venture. The reasons put forward for the
previous closing-down were the low price of silver
and the condemning of the main shaft by the Mines
Department.
Though tin has recovered about £lO during
the past month, it is still only £147 as against
£220 a year ago. Half the shows in Stanthorpc
(Q.) and New England (N.S.W.) are shut down,
and in consequence many men arc out of work.
Stanthorpc l’rop. has paid off most of its lot, and is
at work with but one dredge on one hi ft. Only one
other claim at Stanthorpc is doing anything. Two
plants in Emmaville, on the N.S.W. side, are shut
down, and many in Tingha. Yet it is at such an
unfavorable time that the union goes on with a
futile plaint for higher wages. Of course if it
gets them they will be merely paper rates, so far as
most of the men are concerned. The basic wage at
present is 9s. a day, which isn’t bad, considering
that practically all the men live on mining tene-
ments which cost ss. per annum, and have no rent
or fuel bills to pay. It is a case for a conference
between the two parties. The employers are not big
mineowners of the eradgrind class ; they are, for the
most part, on excellent terms with the men, and a
friendly talk over a table is all that is needed to
smooth out the present trouble.
* * * *
Zinc Corporation. Broken Ilill, is doing
remarkably well in spite of an indifferent spelter
market. The estimated profit for June was £17,019.
bead and spelter are taken at the combined rate of
£3B. An increased production was responsible—
-4602 tons of lead concentrates and 7887 tons of zinc
concentrates, from 15,688 tons of ore and 28,570 tons
of tailings. The South Blocks are turning out an
unexpected “saver” for this co., whose life otherwise
would be rather limited.
* * * *
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) is attracting
attention just now because silver values have been
averaging over 200 oz. per ton of picked ore. A con-
signment of 20J tons has just realised £638, which
spells £3l per ton—rich stuff even for a 6in. vein.
Nevertheless the carting of even this ore to l’icton,
Camden or Thirlmere, a distance of about 40 miles,
over mountain roads, in addition to heavy mining, is
a severe tax. Twelve consignments (126 tons) have
latelv returned £2992. which would tally approxi-
mately with the output for three months.
Great Cobar has about 350 men all told
on the Cobar, Cobar Gold and Chesney mines, getting
the underground workings ready to supply the fur-
naces again. It is expected that smelting will com-
mence about the beginning of September, provided
there are no labor troubles, or shortage of cash, or
other impediments. One healthy sign is the fact
that arrangements are being made to re-open the
co.’s butchery. Local Pirate Enterprise “rose” meat
about 30 p.e. as soon as the mine butchery closed.
The . co. is asking for applications from tribute
parties willing to work the Great Peak leases, as the co.
is being pushed by the Mines Department and local
unions to fulfil labor conditions. Owing to the success
of previous tributors there will be plenty of triers.
The £70,000 mill on the Chesney is practically
scrapped, and it is probable that the eyes only will
be picked out of the mine and sent to the smelters.
There are thousands of tons of low-grade ore here
which will never pay to treat unless copper rises
considerably. All this low-grade ore, by the way,
was included in the late management’s reserves.
* * * *
C.S.A., the Cobar boom of a few years
ago, was pushed into the limelight the other day,
when some correspondence between G. H. Blakemore
(a director) and Fern, M.L.A., was published on
the field. C.S.A. wants a railway and wants it
badly; Blakemore says that C.S.A.’s Tinto properties
are practically unpayable without it. His scheme
is to connect. C.S.A. and Great Cobar by a cheap
line. Then, instead of the Great Cobar training
limestone from Geurie and Molong, the co. will be
able to buy C.S.A. basic ore, which will suit better
as a flux for the silicious ores. The C.S.A. people
think they hold the destiny of Great Cobar in their
hands. Under these circumstances, will they sell
their basic ore to Cobar at a reasonable price? Or
when the railway is built, will they erect smelters
of their own and feel round for an amalgamation
with a co. owning a silicious body of ore, like the
Occidental? Taking into consideration the amount
of money paid to the Railways by Cobar, the Govern-
ment could not be accused of going on the spree if
it sent up an official from the Mines Department, for
a start, to find out if the talk of huge deposits of
basic ore on the C.S.A. field is true. It’s only a
matter of 6f miles of rails, anyhow.
Occidental, Cobar, lias had its usual good
luck. Two or three days after closing for want of
water, a shower of rain gave them about six months’
supply.
Queen Bee. Cobar, lias come to an under-
standing with the party who lately Pegscd out the
leases which the co. for some reason or other
allowed to be declared forfeited. Both
the mortgagee raced round to gents, one, and a
willing spar was promised. Then they decided that
it would be better to cut the thing up among
themselves than let Costs swamp the lot.
* * *
Kyloe has done considerable development
on copper lodes near Drake (N.S.W.). , an< .
a refloat in Melbourne are talked of; in that case,
there is an idea that pref. shares will be exchanged
for paid-ups in a new co. In the principal walk-
ings foul air has stopped sinking when the bottom
of the shaft at 151 ft. was showing a 4ft. lode
assaying 12 p.c. copper. At the 100 ft.
is a lode averaging 30in., and worth about i p.c.
No. 9 lease, adjoining, is also being prospected.
“Mainshaft”: Mount Oxide meeting, ad-
journed to August 15 for the production of a balance-
sheet, provided a lot of inside information which
came too late. Ihe English buyers had the gall to
ask for an option on the mine, the vendor co. to
develop the mine for the buyers at the vendors ex-
pense. They got the option on their own impudent
terms, and advanced on the security of 40,000 shares
£20,000 at 5 p.c., mainly to be used for mine pur-
poses. Prior to this the Australian co. got on the
rocks, or at least into the breakers, by reason of the
collapse of London hot-air merchants who said
they were an underwriting syndicate. Williams was
appointed at the behest of these “underwriters” of
50,000 shares. His salary was £2OOO a year. After
he was appointed the underwriters of the 50,000
shares became total wrecks, and their underwriting
agreements were posted as missing at Lloyds. When
the next London crowd took the nefarious option—
with the vendors developing the country at their
own expense for the benefit of the purchasers—they
were to give the Australian co. 200,000 shares in a
475,000-share co. They held out the bait of start-
ing a market at 30s. a share, and putting the stock
to £3; they encouraged heavy holders to pick up
more shares with the statement that they would take
all offering at £l. Then they came back to an offer
of 15s. for 30,000 shares, deducting the loan of
£20,000 with interest and charges, and Is. a share
for (he call of 50,000 shares at 15s. for six months.
If that had been accepted the London promoters
would have ended up as the holders of 50,000 shares
for nothing, as their market would have been made
in the meantime with the first parcel of 30,000
shares. That being refused, they got 56,000 shares
for nothing, increasing the co.’s capital from
£475,000 to £500,000, and decreasing the shares
of the Australian co. from 200,000 to 170,000. They
were enabled to do this from information as to the
finances of the co. cabled them by someone who
should have known better. They varied the terms
again at the point of the gun by promising to take
00,000 shares at 15s. when the squeeze was hard
enough to bring them down. The manager certified
to the existence of shipping ore in the dumps, and
thereon advances were made by an ore-buying firm,
which had the shock of its life when it was later
naively explained that £lO,BOO worth of shipping
ore was missing. To save an Equity suit the amount
was advanced on the security of the whole 170,000
shares, which thus must pay an assessment of Is. 4d.
a share to release them to holders. Exactly how
the ore which is “missing” got away, or how it was
estimated while having no existence, is not imme-
diately explainable. Lots of other extraordinary
things took place. The whole business has, in fact,
been a muddle, with the confusion more confused
by the squeeze from the London end. Australians
owned the mine, and have now lost their money and
almost all the mine as well. The directors have
never drawn a copper in fees; the secretary is
unpaid ; and the whole thing means that the people
who could wait will take all the profits.
Though Mount Morgan’s half-yearly
report was not available at the end of the week, a
summary was sent out to the papers—which suggests
that there is a theatrical manager or a press-puff
agent now on the Morgan premises. Naturally, in
those circumstances, things were put very nicelv,
though whether anyone can follow the figures is
another matter. The advance agent even referred to
the va.-t dividends that had been paid. Which some-
how recalls the remark of the poet to the effect that
you cannot catch a divvy with the copper that is
past.
Concerning Anakie (Q.), J. P. Mitchell,
referred to here a fortnight ago, explains that, though
he is shifting his headquarters to Sydney, he pro-
poses to take more rather than less interest in the
sapphire business. Mitchell doesn’t think synthetic
gems will affect the Anakie production to any extent
worth mentioning. The miner up there doesn’t
depend on gem stones. Probably not more than one-
thirtieth of his money comes from them. The miner
sells the stones in the rough, mostly for industrial
purposes, at a flat rate of 355. per oz. The syn-
thetics can’t be produced at that price, or anything
like it. Moreover, in the opinion of this" man,
who knows probabl.v more about sapphires than any-
body else in Australia, the manufactured stones don’t
equal the best natural gems: there are very few
synthetics that don’t contain bubbles. The good
natural gem is therefore still going to command the
top price. As for the rough stuff, mostly blue, which
the Anakie miner sells for 355. per oz., a whole lot
is consumed in the manufacture of cheap jewellery,
mostly German, while Russia takes bushels of the blue
stones to serve as eyes for images.
* * * *
Hampden Cloncurry (Q.) clings to fj, ?
hope that developments at 700 ft. in the Duchess *.id
500 ft. in th« Hampden will give the directors a
chance to raise fresh capital, which is badly needed
to relieve the drain on current profits to pay for
what has been called extraordinary expenditure. A
wide scheme of railway construction and mine de-
velopment! has mopped up more money than was esti-
mated, and there is heavy outlay still ahead. A weak
copper market and increased rail freights add to the
difficulty of the position. In six months to June 30,
32,614 tons of ore were smelted for 3393 tons fine
copper. Allowing for copper in fluxes and purchased
ore, the average extraction is 10 p.c. copper plus 50s.
worth of gold and silver. The profit from this rich
ore is only 30s. to 40s. per ton. This shows how
severe costs are.
Central Red, White and Blue, Bendigo,
has been able to put the brake on its drift by
opening up into better stone at 720 ft. The forma-
tion here when worked had only occasional payable
prospects, so the co. went to 880 ft. to test the for-
mation there. This didn’t prove a goldmine. The
manager also came up to 720 ft. to find out if the
west leg of the saddle was better stuff than he had
seen in the east leg. In the turnover some gold has
been met, and a market buck has followed. But,
as the formation is small, it does not follow that a
great addition to the wealth of the mine has yet
taken place. Besides breaking from the spurrv
countrv at 500 ft. north of the shaft in the shallow
ground, the co. is going out west at 960 ft. to try
the west leg of the big formation there.
This is what manager Sam Stretch has
done in the half-year at Williams Fancy, Berringa
(Vic.). The ore output, which in the past has aver-
aged only sidwt., soared up to 7.6dwt., and there
was 10,323 tons of it. The gold brought in £16,663 ;
and £7200 was paid in the six months in divs.
After doing that, and spending £1315 on plant,
and, of course, paying all exes., there was £3643
in the bank, as against £3650 when the half-year
started. On a capital of £12,000, the co. has now
paid £36,000 in divs., from ore averaging 51dwt.,
and as there is IS months’ stone opened up,* with
good prospects going down, shareholders feel more
comfortable than those of almost any other Vic.
mining co.
* * * *
Diamond Creek, 20 miles from Melbourne,
has thrown in the towel after nine years’ struggle.
The failure adds another name to the list of quartz
cos. managed without foresight. The capital put
in was £11,520; and £12,250 was paid back in
dividends. Most of it should never have been
paid. It is the old Bendigo story re-told —no reserve
fund of cash, and as little dead work as possible,
which means no reserve fund of ore. Altogether
30,3700 z. of gold were won from the Diamond Creek
mine, and, therefore, £121,000 has been frittered
away. Directors now express surprise that the
shareholders decline to pay another Is. or 2s. a share
in calls. In this, for once, shareholders were more
right than wrong. Certainly there is golden stone
left in the Diamond Creek mine. But it should be
mined by new men with new mining knowledge and
new ideas regarding economic management.
* * * *
“O.Iv.”: Discussions on the burst-up of
the famous Hepburn (Vic.) mineral spring draw
attention periodically to the fact that the bowels
of the earth are apt to resent interference. Last
week the Minister of Mines received a report from
Professor Skeats, who dealt with everything apper-
taining to the Hepburn fiasco save the first warning
of its approach. The prof., after spending 10 days
in the district, reported that possibly the sinking of
the North Frenchman mine shaft may have “cut” the
main spring, and, if so, the sealing-up of the cross-
cut at the 200 ft. level should help the underground
water to resume its original channel. In the meantime
the mine is flooded, and needs pumping out to the
200 ft. level. Skeats sees no reason to believe that
either the Hepburn Mineral Springs Co. or the
method of doming the springs with cement was re-
sponsible for the failure of the water supply. In
short, the co. that tapped the water, and the council
that permitted it to “monkey” with the ancient
spring, are officially found guiltless. But the appar-
ently real cause of the disappearance of the water is
not mentioned in this report. Three years ago the
co. that tapped the gaseous fluid at the works adjoin-
ing the Spring House, where people used to fill their
bottles and their billies gratis, got permission from
the Daylesford Council to make a mysterious attempt
at increasing both the flow of water and the supply
of natural gas. With a view to this, the co. turned
the water off at the meter, so to speak. For two
or three days there was no outflow whatever at the
Spring House. The co., operating below, had stopped
the supply. When the water was turned on again
the natural gas had departed from it, and left it
flat. The reasonable inference is that the natural
gas, denied its natural outlet, had burst the water
channel or channels in sundry places. A few weeks
later the deteriorated water also ceased to run
from the Spring House vents. It had gone the ways
of the gas.
* * * *
From the Oldest Inhabitant: The miner’s
right, a little document known now wherever metals
are sought for, received its name in a curious way.
The Goldfields Commission, appointed after the
Eureka riots, traversed the several Victorian fields
seeking information. At its last meeting, which was
held in the parlor of a public-house at what is
now Castlemaine, the name was coined. The
historian Westgarth tells the story, in a chapter on
John O’Shanassv, in his last book,' published in 18SS.
“I recollect r/id record with pleasure one of the
Goldfields C'/.nmission incidents illustrative of
O’Shanassy’s high public qualities. We had com-
pleted at Castlemaine, near the original Mount Alex-
ander, our considerable tour of goldfields inspection;
and as we sat round the table of the only public
room of the small hotel, the evidence completed and
the proposed changes decided upon, there yet re-
mained one question. Our proposed chief pecuni-
ary change abolished the indiscriminate and oppres-
sive charge of 30s. monthly license fee, and substi-
tuted a yearly license of 20s. ( £1). And what was
this, or the documentary receipt that represented it,
to be called? Reduced as the amount was it was
still a tax, and any ingenuity that could dignify
or otherwise reconcile a tax was worthy of the best
statecraft. As chairman, and not having at the moment
a suggestion of my own, I had to knock at the heads
of my co-members. I turned to one, then to another,
and yet another, but without response. Even the original
brain of Fawkner sent no sign. At length I called
to O’Shanassy, who happened to be at the far end
of the table. He had been waiting his turn, and
the answer came promptly—‘Call it the Miner’s
Right.’ It was but one of the many instances of
his statesmanlike turn. The Miner’s Right, of course,
it was called. The name passed on to many other
goldfields. I noticed it in British Columbia shortly
after, with its new gold discoveries; for the Com-
mission’s report had attracted much attention, owing
to the forefront position which golden Victoria had
already assumed in the world.”
* * * *
Dr. Wade, the British oil chemist whom
4 Le Commonwealth Government sent to Papua to
report on petroleum probabilities, is very well satis-
fied as far as he has gone. Oil there is for a cer-
tainty ; extent and quality are yet to be determined.
Still the prospects are so good that the question of
getting the stuff shipped is already vexing the
official mind, which sees a stiff problem ahead.
Jensen, the Commonwealth’s geologist, in
the N.T., has been roughly measuring up the
Tanami goldfield, on the Westralian border, and
reckons that there are 100,000 tons of 2oz. stuff still
available.
Austral Malay Tin, Ltd., is dividing up
some of its Ivampong Ivamunting holding, giving
one Kampong Kamunting share for each Austral share
held.
Manchester Oil-Coal Syndicate has been
formed in London to acquire a freehold known as
Maryvale Colliery (Vic.), with a view to entering
into an agreement with the Australian Common-
wealth Fuels and Oil, Ltd. The freehold is known
as Buckley’s paddock, near the township of Mor-
well, on the Gippsland railway. Many years ago a
Government bore went through three beds of brown
coal, aggregating 810 ft. in thickness. A shaft was
put down to 300 ft., but no mining was ever done,
and one shaft hardly entitles the paddock to be
called a colliery. The prospectus of the Common-
wealth Fuels and Oil Co. was circulated in Eng-
land 10 years ago. The statements and promises,
mostly in millions, were so far up in the clouds that
only a first-class aviator could reach them. The
idea was to extract oil and by-products from brown
coal, said to contain 30 gallons of oil per ton. The
promoter was an ex-Queensland squatter, L. t\
Sachs, who afterwards flourished in Melbourne.
Sachs’s dreams will some day come true.


Heelings
Est 1818.
» & «
heerihg
errybrw
Cope/?.
Ziasji
en
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
6-
C',
V
*?5r
FARMER'S
SYDNEY
SPECIAL
THEATRE DINHER
EVERY fPI DAY EVEMiriG
TABLE D'HOTE 4/s
CHTRAnCE - CENTRAL PITT 5T000P5
ELEVATOR A> FIFTH FLOOD
BUCHANAN’S
Black White.
\mi
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 13, 1914.
My Dear Artni, —
Munro Ferguson and his tall lady jolted
into Sydney station on Saturday, while bag-
pipes screeched in the distance. Premier
Holman and a large, healthy-looking squad
of local politicians laid in wait; and pre-
sently a battalion of top hats were hovering
around the vice-regal gloves.
Governor Strickland, clad in glittering
livery of dark blue, heavily plated with bul-
lion, and attended by his staff in
its best millinery (General Finn’s tall
Lancers’ plumes showed signs of having had
a stiff bout with the recent westerly gales,
and wilted to one side), was in the forefront
of the salutations. Stray members of local
Hieland societies, who had dabbed themselves
with bits of plaid ribbon to protect their
manly bosoms from the weather, stamped
warily on the edge of the political vortex.
Veterans Charles MacKellar and Francis
Suttor skipped to the front with the agility
of lambkins. Mayor Richards and his
Mayoress were early on the scene; and Arch-
bishop Wright, sleek and smiling, shook the
hand of every dignitary within reach.
The Munro Ferguson is a fine figure of a
man—just the frame to fit the trap-
pings of the nominal boss of the Australian
military forces. He turns a soft smile on bores
and such from an altitude of an inch or two
under seven feet above ground level—count-
ing his best hat, of course. Her Ex., who
is tall and thin, had a busy time bobbing her
head under the fluff of red-feathered millin-
ery. The Ferguson himself advanced with
the determination of half a Highland regi-
ment. When Aide Anstruther’s six or
seven feet more of uniform, with the
magnificence of an entire Fire Brigade glit-
tering in the plumed and burnished metal on
his lofty brow, clanked behind his impres-
sive Ex., our railway station did look
trimmed up.
The Phillips Fox artists, whose palettes
have been joined in the bonds of holy matri-
mony, stepped out of the train that brought
the G.-G. into the station that isn’t Central.
They’re off to catch a few tropic sunsets in
Tahiti, but hope to get back to Sydney in
October, and propose to depart for the
other side of the earth on Christmas Day.
The express passenger from Melbourne
who is hunted back into his travelling
rug till a Governor-General is safely landed,
and the presentation bouquet duly delivered
to Mrs. G.-G., is the most sulky-looking bear
on earth, as a rule. But Phillips Fox
beamed placidly over the edge of a cushion
and other impedimenta, while wrathful-look-
ing fellow passengers stuck their heads out
of windows and wanted to know when “the
beastly show” was going to be over.
“Snowy” Baker and his tall, graceful
missus stepped briskly along the bleak rail-
way station to get a glimpse of the new
G.-G. arrivals. Mrs. Baker was warmly
rugged in a long coat of Australian native
cat, with a dash of ’possum. These little
beasts hate each other very heartily in life.
United in death they make a handsome,
uncommon wrap for those who like pale tor-
toise-shell fur.
Narromine, with Walter Webb as its crack
player, has again got away with the Dudley
polo trophy. The white jackets with green
diamonds walloped the royal blue of Mus-
wellbrook in the presence of our most ex-
pensive people on Saturday afternoon. The
weather behaved better than on other polo
days, and the pale blue noses of feminine
spectators were lighter in color than they
were on the earlier afternoons when Arctic
westerlies swept Kensington. Few women
took the risk of catching cold in thejr knees,
however, and coats, made of anything that
would keep the draughts off, wrapped the
female form to its heels. The long-sighted
persons who had seats on the hard deal
boards —respectfully alluded to as “grand-
stand” —looked quite as plain as everyone is
expected to be on a July day at polo. Most
of the careless folks took 2/6 worth of stand-
ing room on the grass, and were ready to
sink gratefully into a tram when that occa-
sional treasure came into sight. The frantic
rush of several hundred polo enthusiasts for
one car is a prevailing feature of the de-
parture of the herd from that wind-nipped
locality.
G.-G. Ferguson and his Aides took a
Saturday afternoon snack of polo, and looked
quite a foot apiece shorter in ordinary
tailored garb than they did in their feathered
magnificence of the morning. Her Ex. was
shrouded in a brown velvet coat, and had
been too rushed to change her hat since the
arrival a few hours before. She handed
George Mack, of the Narromine team, the
huge Dudley Cup ; whereupon he buried his
head and supped some champagne, drinking
to his own health as captain. Other mighty
men in the team went off with smaller
trophies as individual souvenirs of the Great
\ ictory. The Adrian Knox Consolation Cup
went to Cooma, who slogged 10 goals, while
the. Muswellbrook Blues whacked six. The
Strickland lady was snugly wrapped up in
her usual chariot, with Mrs. Harry Finn
alongside. Most of the Strickland kinder-
Karten rode to the fray, and the usual
A.D.C. department was in attendance.
The whole White clan must have turned
out at Kensington on Saturday to see the
prowess of.poloman “Rusty” White, whose
admiring friends yelled directions from every
corner of the alleged grand-stand. Colin
Stephen dashed across the ground as a
referee or something, and the motor brigade
honked its applause as usual.
The George Vivers, of King’s Plains
(New England), are back again, after their
chronic wanderings on the other side of this
planet. Mrs. George, who used to be Miss
Irene Marks, was sighted in the distance
the other afternoon. But the back of her
fur coat gave no indication of the pink-and-
white complexion that used to charm our
susceptible youths.
Our political bear-garden in Macquarie-
street was unlocked for its third session last
week. The operation was performed by
Governor Strickland in the gorgeous trap-
pings of his orders. I’m not going to swear
what size in the Michael and George drapery
his Ex. got into, but it had a long blue velvet
tail.
The Polo-Week balls proved that our Beef
and Mutton magnates are still loaded with
cash, in spite of their scared remarks about
the land taxes and other wild animals which
the Labor party is sooling on to indignant
Wealth. The matrons’ hop and the polo
men’s dance a night or two later, both of
them at the Salon de Luxe, have left the
daily press gasping for fresh adjectives to
describe the amount of money that shouted
—not talked —in clothes, diamonds and trim-
mings. The Suffering Landed Rich here-
abouts have never been so numerous and so
motored as they are to-day. Yet Capital is
supposed to have fled from N.S.W., leaving
nothing behind but its footprints.
The Civil Ambulance Ball, in the flower-
garnished Salon, had one of the coldest nights
of the season to nip the noses of spectators.
Mrs. Macneill Simpson (hon. sec.) bustled
round the party with a gleam of triumph in
her sparkling eyes, for many guineas were
hopping round the floor. The tall Spencer
Brunton dame’s majestic shoulders supported
a snowfall of tailless ermine, which drove
the brigade who drape themselves with a
mere bunny to secret tears of envy. Her
eldest daughter was mostly accordeon-pleated
in a shimmer of pale green. She was in a
minority with the fair-haired Ethel Brook-
man, who was also accordeon-pleated to the
waist, with a gauzy tunic puffed out round
the hips. The flounced ladies formed the
majority. One frock of black silk or some-
thing was flounced to the belt of the skirt,
and beautifully tied with purple streamers
like a bon-bon box. Mrs. Lebby Hordern was
clad in a lovely garment of white satin,
with a black tulle top-dressing like a fluffy
midnight cloud. Mrs. Willie Anderson, in
gossamer lace, with some faint shade
to form a cunning little tunic, was
one of the most attractive young
matrons in the room. Marjory Marks, with
her fair hair fluffed round her pretty head,
one-stepped in foamy white, and looked
exactly like a beautiful French doll. Others
much in evidence included the Philip Mor-
tons —papa, mamma and a daughter or two
(I saw one, anyhow, with her hair tied in
rosebuds and a slender streak of white
shimmer round her slim figure). Also and
finally Mrs. Sep Levy flounced in black
that was panniered in some airy-fairy Pais-
ley pattern.
Rothschild’s special beetle-and-insect body-
snatcher, Mr. A. S. Meek, is resting here-
abouts after spoiling the winged creatures
of Papua for the millionaire’s collection.
The thrilling tale of how the beetle-man
shoots Papuan moths with a rifle is goading
the local boy to turn his pea-rifle from the
neighboring cat to butterflies on the wing.
Tenor Paul Dufault. whose voice is a mas-
cotte to manager Freddie Shipman, opens his
farewell season here at the Town Hall on
Saturday. He packs up for Canada on
August 24.
The Mater Misericordke Hospital (North
Sydney) ought to get a fat cheque out of
its ball. The galleries were full, and the
floor heavily garnished with fancy sets and
other attractions. “God Save” saw the
Strickland party to its seats, and the band
—I mean orchestra —played the dress parade
round the Town Hall soon after. Brit-
annia, a buxom damsel seated in a fancy
car. led the way, to a suitable scrape of
fiddles on the platform. “H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia” was another bold flight of fancy, for
which Mrs. Murray Curtis got loud apolause.
“Advance Australia” was a team heavily dis-
guised in bunting and wearing upon its
various heads a man of this continent with
most of Cape York mislaid. “Coal and
Flame” was an outstanding team _ that
looked exactly like its name. The miner s
coal-trucks and handsome lady flames
(notably Miss Bourke) were vastly popular
with the gallery. lion, treas. Mrs. Phipps
and hon. organiser Mrs. Leahy are now tak-
ing a brief rest after their efforts to push
this ball to a clinking climax.
• Peter Dawson’s Sydney season was for
two nights only. The Adelaide baritone —he
is very nearly a bass when he emits the deep
growl* of a ’cello—rolls out ballads in rich,
resonant notes that please the listening ear.
The English company with him includes a
tenor named Furness Williams, and a very
large soprano lady, Miss Annetta George,
who sang at the second concert over a
generous breadth of pale pink frock such
ditties as Butterfly’s warble to the faithless
Pinkerton, of Puccini’s opera. Another mem-
ber of the co., Thomas Sidney, furnished
something catalogued as “Humor at the
Piano.” This being a free country, Mr. Sid-
ney has a perfect right to call it a Funeral
at the Piano, or an elephant at the same in-
strument, if he chooses. Contralto Hilda
Felstead and an Adelaide girl, Carlien Jiirs
—the latter at the piano, but not at the same
time as Humor —complete the Peter Dawson
travelling outfit.
The engagement of Dorothy King—a
granddaughter of the late Mrs. Thorne, of
Potts Point —to a gentleman named Sharp
is now off. I think I told you it was “on” a
couple of weeks ago. The news of its being
“off” flashed to N.S.W. per cable. The
girl is on her way to the other side, and her
engagement has been moving on and off too
fast for a dawdling letter to bring the last
intelligence.
The English hockey damsels stamped out
to Busheutter’s Bay last week —which was
crowded with polo and feats of football —
and gave the N.S.W. petticoats what a
schoolboy calls “a jolly good licking.”
The G.-G. went to the Scotclibyterian kirk
in Phillip-ntreet on Sabbath morn, with a
tall Help at his heels. A riotous
baby happened to have arranged its christen-
ing for that date, and squalled lustily, the
weather being cold, when the chilly per-
formance was putting a tail to the service.
On the pavement outside the kirk the
Ferguson waited till the infant had been
duly stamped with its name. Then he shook
Meenister Duncan by the hand, while loyal
lieges clung to the kerb, and an elderly
dame ducked one knee to show the import-
ance of that patch of footpath.
St. James’s adjacent fold, which is High
Church and addicted to fashionable millin-
ery, doesn’t have its prayers disturbed by
anything higher than a Judge or two nowa-
days. The Dudleys were the last sub-
royalties to regularly push the hassocks
about in the King-street temple. So the
St. Jamesites, who were bustling home for
the Sunday dinner, tarried outside the rival
kirk to swell the Scotclibyterian throng and
scan the Ferguson countenance.
Some of the Laurie family, which is large
and woolly, and lives at Walcha, are in
town. There’s a bonnie Annie Laurie in
the party. When the family flung off its
wraps to see “Bunty Pulls the Strings” the
other night, the orchestra scraped its fiddles
round a medley of Scottish airs with the
inevitable “Annie Laurie” in the middle,
and it came in quite handy-
“ Adela Pankliurst, of London” (see advts.
in daily press), has set two-thirds of our
peaceful suburbs by the ears. Over the once
non-militant breakfast chop the Pankhurst
warcry is raised, and any peaceful member
of the family is scarified with all the weary
old shrieks, while a martyr’s crown is made
(extra large size) for any Perfect Lady who
can hack a picture or burn a church. Adela
herself is a thin, excitable young woman,
with a tongue that races like a galloping
horse. “Not quite so fast, Miss Pankhurst,”
was the persistent masculine interjection at
the second performance of Glory in Excelsis
to the Pankhurst family at the Repertory
Theatre.
An exhilarated lady voter in the audience,
who had been taking too much sodawater or
something, waxed very restless from time to
time. Before the militant Adela got her
long, waving arms into action, this voter
informed the surrounding back chairs that
she’d “paid two bob for intelleckshal treat.”
I hope she got it. “Do I look as if I could
knock a London policeman down?” asked
Adela in honeyed tones. “Why not kick
bloomin’ ole cop?” suggested the exhilarated
lady voter. “Dear friends,” continued Adela.
“Not quite so fast, if you please, Miss Pank-
hurst,” from the patient male voice in the
background. “I’d kick a cop” “Order!”
as the lady chairwoman caught the muffled
sounds of a rival female orator in the audi-
ence. Up the back stairs of the Repertory
Theatre floated the chink of cash and
the clacking tongues of the women cashiers
at the receipt of custom. “Order,” said
the chairwoman in firm tones. “Knock ’im
down, Miss!” interjected the convivial
lady voter, abandoning two-shillings’
worth of intellectual treat to lurch
forward into a 3s. chair. After Miss
Pankhurst had described at a hand
gallop the atrocities of Man —in italics—
the company gradually melted away into the
night. The male portion of the audience
snatched its overcoats for home, with a meek
expression that presumably indexed a pro-
found sense of its own unworthiness in the
presence of Angelic Woman.
Pianist Harold Bauer's season here comes
to a terminus in the Concordia Hall after
this letter is closed. Frantic enthusiasm
goads his audiences to rise and shout at
this performer when he concludes a mighty
smack at Wagner, Bach or Schumann.
Mayoress Richards has issued placards of
invitation for an At Home in her official lair
on July 21. On receipt of these billets, the
chosen citizeness has to state in writing
whether she will or will not be present to
take the hand of Lady Helen Munro Fer-
guson. Her Ex. will probably stand on the
bit of carpet that has supported many vice-
royal shoes before to-day. The plain citi-
zeness will storm Her presence with her
mouth full of her friends’ feathers, the crush
of Best Hats being likely to shut out the
adjacent scenery.
The French National picnic takes place in
the usual water-lapped spot, Clifton Gardens,
before this greets you. The usual speeches
will garnish the occasion. Results, in hard
cash, go to the French Benevolent Society
in N.S.W.
The Madeline Collins concert is booked for
September 22 in Sydney Town Hall, and a
determined committee hopes to sell out the
house before the municipal Peris open the
portal on that night. The girl’s recent con-
cert at Orange was financially successful in
spite of a deluge- The same musical town-
ship has guaranteed an £BO house if she will
sing there again before tripping off to London
to get the benefit of her Royal Academy
scholarship.
“Gipsy Love,” at the Royal, still circles
round the flirtatious hero, the Gipsy Jozsi,
who continues to show the whites of his
eyes in the orthodox fashion of villainy. In
this part Dereck Hudson has made a hit
with the Young Person who likes her wicked
hero to have dark and rolling optics and a
long curl over one eyebrow.
Architect Tom Cosh, of Turramurra, is
now roaming round the globe with his wife
and two youngsters. Writing from U.S. to
a friend here, the genial Cosh en-
thuses on the subject of Uncle Sam hotels.
The nigger, who is frequent and cheap in
the States, may account for some of the
“attendance” laid on to astounded Austra-
lian travellers, who are accustomed to look
after themselves. There are disadvantages
of too much color in the Republic, by the
way. The Auntie Sam of private life not
only has her lingerie washed, but often worn
to rags by colored ladies, before it comes
home, like an overdue funeral. However,
the U.S. manager doesn’t take these risks.
“If you send your washing to the hotel
laundry before 10 a.m. you get it at
G.BO p.m. same day,” continues the in-
formative Cosh. “There are beauty parlors
—of course—on the premises, and your wife
can have her complexion renewed from 50
cents upwards. (Mostly upwards, I sus-
pect.) Then there are tailors to make,
press or repair your garments, valets to
attend to your personal appearance, and
packers (this is Chicago) to compress your
gear into its travelling trunks when you bid
adieu to this luxury. Before going, how-
ever, the manager will have sent you, from
a florist’s (presumably on the premises) a
few tokens of his esteem in the shape of
choice cut flowers, two or three times in a
week. This item is not openly and glaringly
mentioned in the bill. The menu is about
the size of a morning paper in one of
these American palaces. And in every bed-
room there is a Bible in addition to every-
thing else you don’t expect, including a new
cake of soap every morning.”
The suburban alderman is a man of in-
finite resource. Lately the State-subsidised
society which runs the Zoo has been taking
large bites out of the Treasury towards the
making of new gardens at Bradley’s Head.
Fine progress has been made by Director
Le Souef; the scale on which things have
been done may be judged by the one small
fact that last season 700 waratahs were
planted out. An elephant and a few
monkeys and things are getting themselves
acclimatised in the new grounds, which are
already visited by about as many as the old,
iron-bound, unattractive Zoo in Moore Park.
At this point the Mosman alderman felt that
it was up to him to take a hand in the good
work. What could he do? Why, of course,
present the new Zoo with a garbage tip for
a neighbor! No sooner was the brilliant
idea conceived than half a dozen carts began
the regular job of carrying it into effect;
wherefore nowadays the charm of the sur-
roundings on which the State has already
spent thousands is heightened by a perfume
which makes even the elephant wonder what
kind of menagerie it is that has died on the
premises.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


HARDY BROTHERS
VICE-REQAL
æ
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Afternoon Teacups and Saucers
IN DOULTON, COALPORT, ROYAL WORCESTER, and CROWN DERBY
A DAINTY WEDDING GIFT.
hARDY.' --BR05 UIP SYDNEY-. BRISBANE;
litgii • -
m
§
Six Doulton China Cups and Saucers with Six Silver
Spoons, in Morocco Case,
£6.
A large variety of other designs is always available,
in sets of half-a-dozen, set up in Morocco Case with
Six Solid Silver Spoons.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
RAij>n
( dNffISMfUESTYS
SERVICE
BY HIS EXCELIENCYS
SODGER SANuY S
BAIRN
iQ
GATE
Bookstall” Series
of Australian
Books,
• ■ ■
The “Best Sellers” in Australia.
(Sales total 1,500,000 copies.)
1/- each ALL ONE PRICE 1/- each
There is the greatest possible variety of reading in the
“Bookstall” Series. For instance, take the few books whose
covers are reproduced here:—
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” (by Ralph Stock) is a splendid story of adven-
ture in the South Seas, and contains a charming love story.
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE” (by Roy Bridges) gives a true picture of early
Tasmania, and records the stirring pursuit of “Red Mike Howe,” Australia’s
first bushranger.
“SODGER SANDY’S BAIRN” (by A. Bathgate) tells of the Otago (N.Z.) gold
rush. It bristles with exciting episodes, and contains some excellent humor.
“EROS! EROS WINS!” (by F. Agar) is a rattling story of the turf.
“THE CABBING VOICE” (by E. F. Christie) presents a charming story of the
Bush and its fascinations.
“BIBB’S IDEES” (by A. G. Stephens) is the philosophy of a larrikin who, in his
later clays, became a respectable suburbanite. This unique book is full of genuine
Australian humor.
EIGHTY Australian SHILLING BOOKS
Obtainable at all Booksellers and Bookstalls. Or direct from
the Publishers (post free, 1/1).
(Write for Complete Catalogue.)
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
EROS!
OS WIN
.. °y -
fagar - -
BES
, T/\JB
CALLING VOICE
'it
EFChnstie
Harold Bauer
endorses the PIANOLA.
“ I consider the Pianola superior in every
way to all other pianoforte -players.
—HAROLD BAUER.
[EARLY every well-known musician in the world lias
con-
tributed a similar testimony. All are agreed that the Pianola
is the only piano-playing instrument which enables the
untaught player to interpret music with the human touch ana artistic
expression of a virtuoso. The Pianola Piano is a combination of the
only perfect piano-player, the Pianola, with the best in pianos.
Jshe STUCK Pianola
(Also Steinway> Stroud and tbe famous Weber).
N
The Pianola has founded a new school of music lovers. It is the
most widely imitated musical instrument ever produced. Yet the
artistic qualities that gave the original its world-wide success have
not been closely copied. Remember, if you want the Pianola’s
efficiency you must have the Pianola itself.
A half-hour at Pianola Hall will serve to convince you beyond
question that with the Pianola you can play any music you wish
and play it well. You can select your music from an immense
library of 16,000 pieces, covering everything from the great classics
down to the newest song-hit or musical-comedy selection.
If you cannot call ask us to send you a copy of Catalogue B. And
keep in mind that we will take your old piano in part exchange
and arrange very easy terms for the balance.
N.M m» KIM^
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
Pty.
Ltd.
252 Collins Street, on “ The Block,” Melbourne.
357 George Street (next David Jones’), Sydney.
88 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
436=438 Queen Street, Brisbane.
mj m VMI CCHMA*


'CX
'm
rm
STEM BLOCH
SMAMT CLOTHES
Stein Bloch Smart Clothes attract attention and
compel admiration. The simplicity of style, grace-
fulness of the lines, and reflection of refinement in
every garment stamps them as the “Garb fcr
Gentlemen.”
FARMER’S ARE SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W. FOR
THESE FAMOUS AMERICAN SUITS.
In Special Suitings
No Two of a Kind
PRICES:
to 9 Guineas.
Stein Bloch Suits can be supplied in 2- or
3-Button Models, with fiat or roll collars.
Trousers with cuff or plain bottoms as re-
quired. The materials include Soft Saxonys,
Worsteds, Cheviots, Scotch Homespuns, Eng-
lish Tweeds and Indigo Blue Serges.
Prices: £6 6s. to £7 7s.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
ǽ
ParfCin)
Lilas
. Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent:
A.O. SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Guests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 13, 1014.
My Dear Yaurie.—
The Grand National meeting was a great
one. The stands resembled the planks of
the ideal political platform—they fairly
teemed with humanity. In fact, but for the
weather, which was cold enough to freeze
the wheels off a tram, one could have imag-
ined that a big Spring gamble was in pro-
gress.
The Governor-General and his retinue
were of course in Sydney, which left the
blue plush vice-royal pen empty save for the
lonely Stanley Governor, lie endured the
desolating solitude of it—helped out by the
somewhat dreary badinage of a chilly aide
or two —until the Big Race was over, and
then left to watch a football match. I
fancy he was in tears. Anyhow it all
very sad. The subdued strains of “Gor-
save” which followed his departing car
sounded to me absolutely funereal.
To turn to cheerier topics. Rupert Clarke’s
lady, who made her first public appearance
at this meeting after a trip north to see her
Bart, off to the perilous recesses of the Fl.v
River, wore a skirt checked like a draught-
board. Squatter Gumming, whose passion
for checks of all sorts is known from Thurs-
day Island to the Leeviwin, observed his rival
sensationalist, gave a gasp that caused a
couple of horses to bolt, and dropped out of
the garish clothes competition for life. Mel-
bourne’s smartest dresser also wore the
highest osprey, in a little, close black hat,
and the overcoat of a Russian pony. Mrs.
Atlee Hunt came second-best in head
plumage. She sported two fluffy brown tufts
of some strange tropical bird. Mrs. Seaton
made her feathers out of tulle; they were
half a mile or so behind her, like streamers
after a comet.
Several girls carried walking sticks —
amongst them Miss Fitzgerald, who also
wore a monocle. With a tall hat and men’s
shooting boots and a revolver or two, she
would have looked really masculine.. Bal-
sillie, of “wireless” fame, who is going to
command rain when his invention is per-
fected, frivolled the day away over a race-
book. lie has taken to wearing blue pince-
nez as a disguise.
The ex-mayoral Daveys gave a luncheon
party. Mrs. Davey, who has been a very sick
woman abroad, says she has recovered by
virtue of a short dose of Australian home
atmosphere. She' looked becomingly slight
( the dream of Sassiety is to be slight) and
pale, and was wrapped in fur and fawn
color. Mrs. Charlie Beauchamp was with
her, in a cheeky hat like a blue wren’s
bonnet.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart also had a lunch party.
The just-returned Geoffrey Syme and his
lady were guests. Mrs. Syme’s brocaded
chiffon velvet was lovely, and Mrs. Billy
Williams wore a duck of a cerise hat. The
hostess’s husband, who is in London, cabled
a bet on the race —and duly lost. When a
man begins feeding the coffers of the Ring
per cable he is incorrigible. Zephurion, the
winner, was, I believe, a “skinner” —but
your sporting men friends must supply the
language necessary to deal with this deplor-
able case.
Mrs. Tom Hogan wore a fur coat —in fact,
everyone who could afford it wore fur coats.
The Baillieux were in great force, though
Clive Baillieu had a pressing engagement at
five o’clock to dance with a three-year-old
(not a horse, but a child) at a party given
by his wife. One Baillieu wife wore her
blue cloth dress tied round her knees like
Buster Brown. The Fairbairn girl, on the
contrary, had her knees unshackled by splits
on either side of her chess-board skirt. Mrs.
Casey w’ore a laurel wreath in her hat.
Women seem to balance all sorts of things
on their heads these days. The more I see
of Society the nearer I approach the time
when I shall feel no astonishment at the
spectacle of one of our leaders of fashion
walking about with a dead Airedale terrier
fastened to her brow. There was a large
•assortment of Millers, and the bird-cage was
sprinkled with Manifolds. The two families
.are recovering their earlier interest in racing
matters: at one time either a Miller or a
.Manifold owned the big winner at every
meeting. The Byron Moores took congratu-
tions in a body, one chick having just re-
turned from abroad and another being just
engaged.
The City Newsboys’ Ball was a great
event, as usual, for the charitable female who
gets up sets and persuades her male acquaint-
ances to degrade themselves by hiring and
wearing grotesque fancy suits. Perhaps the
best feature of the vaudeville side of the
function was the inevitable parade of the
two Governors, two Governoresses and their
: supporting army of Gentlemen Helps. The
(embarrassed dignitaries achieved a sort
i of “morituri te salutant” expression in the
(course of their march round, which was highly
: amusing. The brisk Governor-General wore
• stars and garters, and winter underclothes
and a collar and boots, along with a com-
prehensive smile. It is this particular poten-
tate’s specialty, seemingly, to be always
crisp and brisk. Even liis hair is .only pre-
vented from breaking into Apollo-like curls
by obvious force of brush and oil. Ilis wife
swept the floor (in no charlady sense, under-
stand) with a magnificent train of black
satin. She wore colored beads heavily
weighted into a ninon tunic that covered the
train. Pearls and diamonds shone from
her head, and she carried a large flame-
colored feather fan. Governor Stanley was
alone, his little lady being still abed. He
negotiated the official lancers in collabora-
tion with Mrs. A. Landale. The Mayoress,
in pale pink and pearls, was the dancing
prize of the Governor-General, and her
Hennessy, with fur and chains all over him,
danced with Lady Helen. The Pursey
Chirnsides, McLauclilans, Mackinnons, an
Armytage and a Manifold or two also
whirled in this set. Lady Doris Blackwood
was an adorable picture. She surrounded
herself with white tulle frills edged with
lace and pink rosebuds, and a dress which
dripped off the shoulder-dimples in Early
Victorian style. Also, she wore a wreath of
roses in her hair. She looked nice enough
to frame or preserve in spirits.
The tinted hair craze burst forth at this
ball. In Mrs. Hillyard’s set two unpre-
cedented events occurred. Each woman
danced with her own husband —and all wore
hair to match their gowns. Mrs. (Dr.)
Barry Thompson looked weirdly well in a
pale mauve wig. Mrs. Cyrus got
together a Dutch Cocoa get—led by Kath-
leen Lindgren with an empty cup. She wore
green hair —and the rest is silence. Brave
but mistaken young women appeared in vio-
let wigs, but the effect on the most expensive
complexion was a haggard, just-outside-the-
Ileads tinge that was fatal.
The O’Hara colleens got Mrs. Landale’s
prize for their Persian splendor of multi-
colored silk trousers and soft veilings over
gold tunics. Mrs. Fairbairn ran a black
and white Futurist set. The girls wore
black jet skull caps atop. Mrs. Val Mac-
donald led black Pierrots —girls and men
alike in pantaloons.
By the way, owing to some new fad or
regulation, the Town Hall was not open to
the patrons of the ball until a few minutes
to eight o’clock. Shivering pierrettes and
tearful Dutch girls huddled together to
escape the biting blasts and rude remarks of
thoughtless youths. And a kind, burly
policeman, who took off his coat to wrap
round a “Buster Brown” damsel, was almost
cheered by the edified crowd.
The little Stanley lady is all right again,
though she does not propose to attend any
races, balls, solo whist drives, dog fights,
fan-tan parties or afternoon teas for some
weeks to come. If necessary she can pro-
duce a medical certificate _ to show that any
such joys would be prejudicial to her health.
Which goes to show that there are points
in being an invalid, after all.
Lady Frederick Blackwood is back at
Government House after her spell in hos-
pital. She will follow the G.-G. people to
Sydney the moment her doctor drops the
starter’s flag.
The grey-haired G.-G. is a very active
potentate. lie walks into town and out
again every day, and is rarely seen enmotored
when there is time to spare and the weather
is fine. When he has to ride he prefers a
dainty little car about the size of a canoe.
There is a Gladstonian touch about the
G.-G. One day recently, when her Ex. was
entertaining a friend or two at tea, he ap-
peared at the door, explaining, by way of
introduction, that he had just chopped down
a tree (size unknown, but probably a small
one). “Are you clean enough to come in?”
cried his wife warningly. “/ have my blue
suit on!” he answered gravely, and was in-
stantly admitted to the circle.
Longstaff is now showing London a por-
trait of ex-G.-G. Dudley. He is dressed in
Australian khaki, and stands ia the open,
before a characteristic background of moun-
tains and paddocks, instead of being safely
yarded in the conventional low-toned por-
trait “interior.” Those who have seen it
say it is a strongly original bit of work.
The Western District Urquharts are in
town for the wedding of daughter Una and
Keith Calvert. They gave several race
parties at Flemington—functions at which
you could positively pick the wool off most
of the guests.
Yates Smith, who is something or other
splendid in connection with Mumms Cham-
pagne, popped up in Melbourne the other
day for a brief sparkle. He leaves shortly
to push the beverage in America, where, I
understand, the plutocracy bathe in the stuff
that biteth like an exasperated adder.
Isabel Horsfall, of the Widgiewa Horsfalls
(one of them married a brother of Lord
Carrington, who earned a certain measure
of fame as the grower of a preposterous brace
of moustaches), has become Mrs. Lipp. She
has gone off, hand in hand, with her Lipp
to Fiji, where they propose to wander a-down
life’s vale together growing bananas.
The engagement is announced of Ruby
Mary, eldest daughter of Mr.' and Mrs.
V.R.C. Byron Moore, to Captain Ronald
Gordon, 57th Rifles, Frontier Force, India.
Need I mention, in view of his naine, that
the young man comes from Scotland t
The Eric Harrison pair are away honey-
mooning—a not unnatural circumstance, since
they were married only a few days ago. As
you, my dear, being a tireless student in
social matters, will recollect, she was Kath-
leen Prendergast. To resume, they are
honeymooning, and not (and here avo reach
the goal at which the whole of this some-
what breathless paragraph is aimed) — not,
I repeat, in an aeroplane. They took with
them on their travels a pendant of black
opals, consigned to the bride by the Car-
michaels. The art-loving Carmike had a
fine collection of those stones, which he ad-
mired extravagantly. That is to say, extra-
vagantly for a Scotchman.
Members of the Melbourne educational
world are interested in the recent marriage in
London of Miss Nettie Higgins, M.A., with
Vance Palmer. Miss Higgins spent some
years lately in Germany, France and Eng-
land, studying phonetics, and on her return
to Melbourne gave some courses of lectures
on this comparatively new subject, to classes
of teachers. It was irresistibly funny to
see how the bright little lady persuaded
bearded, dignified schoolmasters to bleat like
overgrown lambs in their efforts to pronounce
certain French sounds. She also wrote for
some Melbourne papers, and her husband is
a well-known writer of articles and short
stories for the Spiieke and other papers. He
hails from Queensland.
A solid veteran artist of the old school —
•T. C. Waite, R.B.A. —has secured the
Athenaeum Gallery for the last fortnight of
this month. The “private view” is on Thurs-
day of this week.
The Ross Soden matron, who has been suf-
fering from a chill, crawled from under her
eiderdown on Thursday afternoon to
reward certain “charity” bridge players. The
reward took the form of a toothsome repast
—I presume it was toothsome, since no com-
plaints have been lodged either with the Gov-
ernment or the newspapers. Over a hun-
dred players were fed. Two Bowes Kelly
girls, a brace of Burstons and Mary Stirling
vended sweets at the opening and violets at
the finale. The matron returned to her
eiderdown feeling like a social benefactress
with growing pains.
The Munro Fergusons put in a good
30 minutes on Wednesday admiring the
canvases of young Louis Foulet, who
is 20, but looks 15. “It took an
artist from Paris to show Melbourne
how picturesque its streets are.” Thus Lady
Helen in French, after which Himself
betrayed intimacy with the Gallic tongue, by
using it to commend a picture of an Apache.
This Louis did when in the studio of the
great I’issaro.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme is back from her health
jaunt to Colombo, and is inviting friends to
come and see how well she looks. The in-
spection will occur on Thursday, July 30.
A good Tasmanian named Toosey died the
other day and tried to leave £4OOO to the
Hobart Hospital. The will is so mixed,
however, that his benevolent intentions seem
likely to be frustrated. I expect he was a
cold, hard, businesslike lawyer, and drew up
the will himself.
Paul Dufault, with his silver hair and
his soulful eyes and his deplorable dress suit,
sang for three consecutive nights in the
Auditorium, before leaving us. On Friday,
his last appearance, he drew a splendid house
and departed amid a perfect rain of laurel
wreaths, silver feathers and other puzzling
emblems. There were some staid English
people in the front stalls who seemed to me
to throw pretty well everything at their idol,
barring bombs. They also tried to cry
“brava,” in the typical Italian style. Have
you ever seen typical English folks being
Italian? My dear, it is fierce.
From “Rosna,” in Britain:—
Australia had a finger in the Peace Ball at the
Albert Hall on June 10 ; but the finger might just
as well have belonged to Borneo for anything distinc-
tive there was about it. While other countries were
represented by typical dress, the Australian group
wore red, white and blue for some dar-k and unex-
plained reason, with an occasional historic character
thrown in. The Reid dame led the procession, and
was followed by a son and daughter, one of the
Clegg girls, Dr. Mueeke (Crossley’s husband), George
Lambert, the Douglas Mawsons, Mrs. Osborne, and
I don’t know who else. Maoriland’s group, headed
by a daughter of High Commissioner Mackenzie, con-
tained sundry Maori potentates in their native war-
paint.
George, Mary and Alexandra of Britain, Marie of
Russia, and Manoel, Augustine and Amelie of Por-
tugal, to say nothing of seven basketsfull of the peer-
age, attended Melba’s last sing-song at Covent
Garden before the Voice sailed for Australia. The
house was packed sardine-wise; and after the last
note was trilled the house rose as one sardine, and
coo-eed till Melba had bowed 19 times.
The honeymooning Douglas Mawsons are
being fussed over in the Cold Country. Sev-
eral newspapers in the Fog print a yarn to
the effect that when Mawson settled
down for his long freeze and sneeze
in Antarctica he wirelessed his Carmen
(you remember, of course, that she
was Carmen Delprat) “offering to re-
lease her from her engagement,” but the lady
replied that she would remain tru-ue and
await his return. Both were vastly inter-
ested to learn this and other hitherto un-
known details of their joint and several
pasts.
Marie Hall, who has much of the late
Bendigo Watson’s money to play with, has
been whirling like a gyroscope ever since the
lucky day on which her cheque-book became
a romance in real life. Latest news is to the
effect that she arrived breathless in London
after a dash across America and a chilly
fright in the sliip-swallowing Atlantic, where
her floating hostelry was held up for two
days by fogs and adjacent icebergs. Despite
this experience, she felt well enough to send
some 20 pages of dress hints to a girl-chum
in Melbourne who is planning wedding flum-
mery.
The Apple Island has gone charitably
demented on the Bush Nursing question.
Launceston was struck down first, and it
has infected Hobart. Mrs. Senator Keating
is chiefly to blame, and Drs. Sprott and
Crowther and Archdeacon Wliitington are
backing her up in her efforts to make things
hum in the pretty little city where it is
always afternoon when it isn’t the middle
of the night. Also, Mrs. Thomas Murdoch
has allowed her house to be used for dinner
and tea parties on behalf of the Cause. Did
you ever know a Cause that really was a
Cause that could be got going without urn
limited food and drink? The dictum of
Queen Victoria’s old friend Sir Rufus Mugge
(viz., “Limit your wittles and the Cause
busts”) is as true to-day as when it was
first uttered.
Louise Smith-Dyer and her stolid. Scotch
linoleum-emperor husband, when last heard
from, were located in the Grand Central
Hotel, London. The music-loving Louise
was having a splendid time sampling grand
opera, oratorio and occasional ballads.
I recently heard a smart young matron,
who has been grass-widowed for three
months, deploring the absence of her husband
—an appalling man with flat feet and the
habit of weeping inconsequently when drunk.
As courteously as might be I expressed
astonishment not entirely unmixed with in-
credulity. “Oh, it’s not that , m’dear,” she
wdiimpered. “It does not matter ivliat you
do when your husband is at home, but if
he is awav everybody talks so and it spoils
all the fun.” . It is such confidences as this
that make me realise how deeply the propa-
ganda work of Laborites and other home-
wreckers has bitten into our body politic.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
On Friday Mr. Dudley Hayward gave a good-bye
tea for Mrs. Morey, who will have left for England
with her Rhodes-scholar son before this reaches
you. The hostess, in a soft frock of ashes of roses
with touches of blue, received her guests in an iris
and sweet-pea bedecked drawing-room. A guessing
competition and a fortune-teller helped to keep,
conversation from falling dead in the middle of the
room, and so causing needless worry and embarrass-
ment. There is nothing more ruinous to the success
of these entertainments than the sudden arrival of the
dead bodv of Conversation. Mrs. Morey was smartly
dressed in black and white, and among those who
came to have a parting word with her were Mrs.
W. Pope, Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith, Mrs. James Harvey,
Mrs. R. Colley, Mrs. Murray Dawson (in saxe-blue
crfpe de chine, with a beplumed hat), the Bray
lady, Mrs. Angas Johnson, Mrs. Roy Milne, Mrs. W.
B. 'Wilkinson and Mrs. W. A. Magarey.
The first dispensation of Free Food. to Deserving
Characters, of the Galway regime, occurred at Gov-
ernment House on Thursday evening. Guests were
received in the ballroom, and supper was served in
the State dining-room. Lady Galway’s frock was of
ivory satin, with a tunic of embroidered net, and
she wore diamond ornaments. Mrs. Butler was
also in ivory 6atin, with a tunic of relieving blue;
and Mrs. John Downer’s graceful frock was of pink
charmeuse and ninon, with drapings of lace.
Amongst the guests were the Symon and Goode
noblewomen, Colonel and Mrs. Irving—she' in cream
charmeuse with lace —the Mayor and Mrs. Simpson,
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Corpe, the Leonard Bakewells
with their daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Downer,
Canon and Mrs. Girdlestone, Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith
(whose frock of cream satin and Limerick lace had
a short tunic of jetted net), Mr. Barr Smith, Miss
N. Kyffin Thomas, the David Wilkies, Colonel and
Mrs. Makin, and the Walter Duffields.
The W. Popes and the George Milnes gave dances
this week. The Popes’ was for their niece, Miss
Dulcie Drew, who came from England some months
ago, and will be here till the end of the winter.
The Mount House garden supplied gorgeous roses and
delicate rose-pink antirrhinums for the decorations.
Mrs. Pope, in a smart frock of blue brocade, and
her niece, in primrose satin veiled with blue ninon,
received in the drawing-room. The dancing was
accomplished in a marquee.
Miss M. Warren, who has been in Japan and
China for over a year, returned to Adelaide this
week.
On Friday evening the members of l’Alliance Fran-
gaise staged “La Poudre aux Yeux” at the May
Club. Lady Galway, the patroness of the Alliance,
was present, accompanied by Miss Macaulay. The
affair reminded many travelled persons of the Bois,
the Rue de la Paix, etc., to such an extent that
they have been calling for absinthe and Vermouth in
place of their usual poisons ever since.
The Dempster-Lane wedding took place on Tues-
day at St. Matthew’s, Kensington, and a reception
was afterwards held at the rectory. The bride wore
cr£pe de chine, with drapings of beautiful lace; and
her bridesmaid, Miss Kathleen Dempster, was in
white with a black velvet hat. Among the guests
were Colonel and Mrs. Dean, Mrs. T. Bowman, Mrs.
T. E. Barr Smith, Mrs. and Miss Hanson, and Mr.
and Mrs. Ilewgill.
Captain Angas Collins, who has been living at
Angaston for some time, returned to England on
Thursday.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


r.?*oS *?. Mt. V : 1 r- ••£&s J 'J
m
-~
SiU*%
m
ar
r:* *
p
\ m
} : :%#* V
0$
•W
|4% $ it *
fWO*
tjM
’ :
&
bbss
•*
I*
-
. .
»•, V *?
/
f ■■ .-*■
mm
>
gPPSam
*►
: i
:■■:■ ■■•■■:■■ ■■■::• ■:■• ■ •:■•:': •■: .;. ,'• ;;:v ■
. iBSSfSfeS
r
::?WA
W. r '
t.
nr
m
*W:
m»/
r
j -
I
m
Mi
■■■■•
mm
ftlllS
m
11 if
' ■ *..7
■
11
fr/i
rJfe<
** ■■««
..
;. «r” .
iJ
Ki
M
■ *1
I
■ «
•x«>
>(% * -
>7 '
sfll
K: '■ «
i :
3?
i i: ui ■
■mJ,
%
l
A
. I
-
, >:
-ft!
m
iBBS
M W< - - ;
m m.
4 ''
£',i
‘fit; l -
- . . 1
%:
S
mi.
■ .
. If'
ss
I
. . • k
&
«
2fi
%
«
*-;y
:
.*» •
r:i¥ W ft
«
r
S
* ■
j-»'A E _ r y : v
K
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A.
Gopsright> John Dswar & Sons, Lid.
SIR DAVID WILKIE
This Picture is the Eleventh of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR SONS, L T °'' scotch whisky Distillers, Perth London


fbr all parts of your
Motor Gar
300 OLA&S
W !S*
s'
BonAmi
Q
Eon Ami removes the dirt only-
polishes beautifully, and will not
scratch.
athrooms
For
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling
marble,
enamel
and
porcelain
Bon Ami
MSmttMM
Just try it in your bathroom
3]
“THE TOPNOTCH SCOTCH.”
RING
GEORGE IV.
WHISKY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
ARGUING IN A VICIOUS CIRCLE.
COP: "'Ere, why don't yer get up an’ go
’ome?”
SMITH: "Well, y' shoe, ’s'like thish (hie), I
can’t go ’omesh an’ face m' wife until I’ve
(hie) hadsk one or two, an' now I've had
one er twosh (hie) I can’t go ’ome."
“Machete”: The spider-webs so congratulated
by “Mulga (B. 18/6/‘l4) aren’t a circumstance to
those which some of the Papuan crawlers spin. The
mountain forests behind Mekco are full of leggy night-
mares, and the heathen in those parts makes them
get work. The said heathen is fond of a small
fish which frequents the mountain pools in thick
shoals, and to catch the delicacy bends a length of
rattan into the shape of a long-handled tennis racquet.
This he. leaves in a spiders’ suburb, and when he
returns in a week or so he is a disgusted coon if the
inhabitants have not filled in the empty frame and
provided him with a free, gratis landing-net.
“Alrich”: ’The Beater” asks for infor-
mation (B. 18/0/14). regarding- the intricacies -f
tan-tan. Moll, I don't know of any, vet I gin
J know the game. ] had a job in
Northern Queensland, which brought me pretty
closely into contact with Ah Sin, and I became
persona (/rata, to a certain extent, in the “dens."
" hen I entered an unpretentious lodginghouse in
Chinatown a bell did not ring in the back room
and a smiling Chink murmur, “Xo more marker
ticket this place now.” I often witnessed games of
•cobbo," Chinese 'poker (a grand game),' fan-tan
and several varieties of dominoes, and was also in
great demand for drawing the pakapu bank.
’Jhe players in these Monte Carlos usually consisted
of Chows, Japs, Kanakas and Malays, which last-
are the greatest and best gamblers under the sun.
In fan-tan one player runs the bank and collars a
percentage of jd. in the shilling on all winning
bets. A large handful of counters, usually small
pearl buttons, is placed on the table and'.overcd
by a metal saucer. This covering is removed and
the counters ' are raked away from the heap, four at
a time, and bets are made with the bank as to
whether one, two, three or no counters will be left
over, odds of three to one being laid against your
laney. There is a square board in front of the
banker, each corner' representing 1,2, 3 and nil
respectively. The money is placed on the board
at the corner representing the- number you' desire
i° back. One may also have an even-money bet
>y placing the stake in a certain position on the
, >oard, which signifies odds against - evens" or ’ vice
rerm. The Chows' have 'certain peculiar methods of
signifying bets with the bank, and these are indeed
bewildering to any but the cognoscenti, and might
give Ihe game an appearance of intricacy. The
celerity with which Ah Sin can reckon up the
number of counters on the table is amazing, and
the result is known to everyone before more than
half tlift counters have been removed. One hears
a good deal about the honesty of the Chink, but -'t
does not obtrude itself worth mentioning in li's
gambling, and you can take it from Percy, who
knows, that tin' man who wants to put one over on
flic average Celestial must develop the early-rising
habit to such an extent that lie will only need his
pyjamas on a Sunday.
r * * *
7 : ••E.ll.ri.V’ story of the hush
animals thronging into townships in Xew South Wales,
(o steal water and forage, under stress of drought,
juis its counterparts in any Australian dry season,
llave known kangaroo rats, wallabies and even
kangaroos to raid station flower gardens and
verandahs where plants were kept. At one home-
stead m S.W. Queensland where there was a small
tank fed by a spring, such shy birds as the scrub
bronzewing would come down to drink almost along/
side men and even women. Kangaroos by dozens
would go between the scattered station buildings
on their way to the water in daylight, and at night
the place was salvation for all the thirst-stricken
brutes for miles around. The men who had to
pump water for sheep at the Sandridge wells, which
are common in that country, found themselves work-
ing overtime from the extra calls made on their
troughs by the wild fauna.
“JI.I.O.”: “Gonger’s” yarn (B. 11/0/’l4)
of the gin who carried around her husband's dried
hide recalls the fact that many Queensland tribes,
especially those of Torres Strait, are experts in
mummy making. The semi-Papuan people of Murray
Island are particularly expert. The process, which
is falling- into disuse, is a tedious and abominabfe
one. After due ceremonials the body is taken to
the sea-edge, where the innards are excavated bv
certain members of the tribe, whose otthe is a privi-
leged one. The brains of the moribund party arc
used as a sort of complexion improver by the lorn
widow—if there is
one—but the other
items are just left
lying- round until the
tide or the gulls re-
move them. The body
is then hung upright
on a fra ni e an d
smoked, being care-
fully tended by rela-
tives. When properly
dried, shell eyes are
fitted, and, after being
s m care d with red
ochre, the corpse is
piled away with the
family archives. There
~ are slight difference's in.
the manner of '.‘curing? ladies ami gentlemen, ; hut
le description here set out is near enough to guide
any scribe who is anxious to preserve his grand-
mother.
“Marloo”: A specimen of a rare and
almost unknown fish turned up at Sydney Museum
lately for identification purposes. It was caught bv
Mr C. 11. Gorrick, in Danger Bay (Tweed Heads)
and weighed 18Jlb. ; was 3ft. 4in. long, with a girth
of 20in. Shaped like a torpedo, the fish is remark-
able for the opalescent quality of its color scheme
Moved m the sunlight it throws out/ pale green
salmon and silver gleams, like an opal. After much
research, a record, found in an old French book of
1321, threw some light on the subject of inquire.
It appears that 90 years ago a party of scientists in
the ships Uranie and Physicienne called in at Shark
Bay (M.A.), and there captured a peculiar fish. Its
characteristics were recorded beside a drawing in
colors by the artist of the expedition. Because it
closely resembled the tunny, and had extra large
scales it was named Gramatoricnus bicarinatus. °I
dont know who was responsible for the name but
it hardly matters. lie has escaped long since. ’
STANDING UP FOR HIS STATE.
THE LADY: “My. good man, are you not ashamed to he seen in this state?"
SAMUEL: "Lor blesh yer, no. Noo Sou Wales’s beersh goodsh any other beersh."
“Oimai": “Kulli,” in taking me to task
(I!. IS/C/’l4) for calling, the'Australian aboriginal
an indulgent parent, quotes a solitary instance where
a child is said,’ on its father’s unsupported evidence,
to have been - touched up with a firestiek. In an
experience of. the altos, going back to early childhood
I cannot recall seeing or hearing of a case* of
severity to children of our respected black brothers.
Binghi often belts, his old woman, but lus children
never. .Roth, OMleii, Mjoberg and many other ethno-
logists, with : Australian experience report the same
tiling. That- it b also true of the Papuanj Judge
Murray, l > and other personal
observers will testify.*
Mrs. Lance Lawson: In North Queens-
land in the ’.7o’s it was not unusual when dispersing
blacks who had been spearing the cattle to pick up
parcels of defunct blackboy, dropped by the gins in
their flight to cover.' I’ve often assisted at the open-
ing up of these parcels, and never found them in the
least offensive. The goods were embalmed in a
powdery red earth, and packed round and round with
fibrous bark. Invariably a few treasures, such as
curious shells, bright pebbles, carved sticks, etc.,
were laid in the* meat. When living on a selection
on the-shores of Wide Bay, opposite Fraser’s Island,
the blacks were our familiar and best friends. The
gins used to congregate round my outside fire at all
times and seasons, and though always more or less
objectionable, they were sometimes useful. One day,
noticing that old Maria was more unsavory than
usual, I inquired the reason; but getting no satisfac-
tory.. reply I. sent her after crabs, and proceeded to
inspect her dilly bag. Amidst a varied collection I
selected, a” lump of clay as the cause of the trouble.
It was' about four inches of the shinbone of one
“.Tacky,”, a young blackfellow who had died of con-
sumption some three or four weeks before. “Jacky”
had taken a ’wife from a far-distant tribe during one
of his many trips up north, and when he fell sick
she was blamed as having cast, “an evil eye” on
him. When he died each of. the men of! his' family
received a piece of his bone*'as ’ a reminder that
theirs was the duty to avenge his death. Maria was
conveying her piece to a brother at Fraser’s Island.
About six weeks after this I witnessed the murder
of Jacky s young widow. She was coming from the
camp at five o’clock one morning to do some washing
for me, when, as she passed, the end of the scrub, a
spear'was thrown from the trees. Standing on my
verandah, about 50 yards away, J saw the body
drawn, off. the track and into the scrub. Strange to
say, though the police searched, and we had a lot of
the scrub dug over, that gin’s body was never found.
The only inference was that the blacks either sank it
in the bay or got it away to Fraser’s.
“FY7”: To “The Beater” (B. 18/6/T4),
1 say that fan-tan, as l know it, is played with a
howl, chop-sticks: and a heap of “cash,” or small
copper coins. Beans, cowries or even maize are some-
times used instead of cash. When the game is
“made” the croupier draws a quantity of cash away
from the heap, under the bowl. Putting the latter
on one side, he then counts the cash he has drawri
INFLUENCE.
PROFESSIONAL CADGER" “ Got th ’ price of a
drink on yer, Mister?"
AMATEUR CADGER: “No, old boy. But, if
you like, I'll give you a letter of intro-
duction to a blone who has just shouted
me one."
off, in fours, using the chopsticks to do so until
four or fewer cash are left. The players bet on odd
or even remaining, though there is a variation which
permits of betting that one, two, three or four cash
will be there at the finish. For a slick croupier there
may be possibilities in manipulating the cash, but
the Chow sports I have seen watch the telling off as
intently as a wowser watches a revue girl.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE ROOSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The rooster, Herald of the dawn,
Gives forth a hearty crow.
When homeward in the early hours
From business do I go.
But how he knows the dawn is due
I know not. There’s no'mass
Of evidence upon the point—-
Unless he hears me pass.
It still is night. The moon is full,
Though not as full as I ;
There is a look of watered milk
About the faded sky.
Perhaps he fancies I’m the milk—
That rooster is a mug;
The water in me is far less
Than fills die morning' jug.
Whate’er the watching fool may think,
He makes his noise before,
J put the ’cray’s claw in the lock
And thus unlock the door.
He Tkleuu.u'Hs the News around,
And o’er the suburb goes
The morning challenge, till the world
Scents full of blaring- crows.
And so, as (o my couch 1 creep,
I hear a voice f dread;
“The fowls are up; it’s live, at least—
Nice time to get to bed !”.
that rooster, like some villain, my
Domestic peace doth wreck,
Some time 1 11 rise before the Su.v
And wring his feathered neck.
A silly person dubbed him once
The Herald of the Day ;
Day is my name, and in the morn
He gives my show away.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


RIDING BREECHES
READY TO WEAR
THAT ENSURE
SADDLE COMFORT
The horseman who wishes to experience
absolute - satisfaction and ease in the
saddle should send now for this special
line.
El2l.—Ready-to-wear Riding Breeches,
good, hard-wearing Saddle Twists in special
quality, Greys and Green-Grey mixtures,
with cross pockets, button knees and strap-
pings of self material. Cut by Experts, and
leaving nothing to be desired in Style, l’it
or Make.
Unequalled
Value at
25/-
jga
lit 22.
8123.
8122. —Grafton
Leggings, seam-
less. blocked, fast-
ening with spring
in front; Undressed
Leather, 21/-;
Imitation Pigskin,
22/6; Ileal Hog-
skin, 35/-
Bl23.—Puttee
Leggings, seamless
and blocked in
natural shape, in
Black Hide, 22/6;
Imitation Pigskin,
22/6.
73
Tll2l.
FOR MAN’S EVERY REQUIREMENT
AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER STORE.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Nelson’s VICTORY
Air-Gas Machines
Marks a new era in the
history of Air-Gas
Machines. The “VIC-
TORY” is vastly superior
to the numerous machines
there are on the market
—eliminating all their de-
fects and embodying the
latest improvements de-
signed for efficiency. “Air
Ga s” made by the
“VICTORY” is abso-
lutely on the “pinnacle of
supremacy” for light pro-
duction, producing a bril-
liant, soft, steady light.
'
N/lv
to
I
'
100 per cent, cheaper
than any other system.
You cannot get away from facts like this. Tt moans a tremendous saving in a year—hut
not this only—you get infinitely hotter results —hotter lighting, heating and cooking power. This
combination makes the “VICTORY” the most Efficient and Economic system ever placed
before the public.
The prire of the whole plant complete is
It represents the biggest value investment known. The “VICTORY” is invaluable for
lighting Country Residences, Hotels and Hoarding Establishments.
It is wonderfully simple in construction and requires very little attention. It takes up
very little room—a few odd feet of space being all that is required.
There is no danger or risk —no smoke or smell.
It will repay you handsomely to install a “VICTORY” right away. It will cost you
nothing to learn*ail about it. Write to us- at once —your inquiry will he promptly attended to.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane.
LANZ LOCOMOBILES
—The Engines of Efficiency and Economy.
!his«s
dH
The Lanz Patent Portable and Semi-
Portable Kngines for superheated steam
stand for ECONOMY, EFFICIENCY and
RELIABILITY. THE ENGINE is
INDEPENDENT OF BOILER
EXPANSION—NO STRESS on the
BOILER SHELL.
The LANZ Engine means:
(1) The lowest possible con-
sumption of steam and
fuel,
(2) A great reserve of power.
(3) Extreme smooth running,
even under quick vari-
ation of load.
These Engines are built in sizes ranging from 35 to 1000 B.H.P
Call and inspeft the LANZ LOCOMOBILE, or write us to-day for Illustrated Catalog and fullest particulars.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD.,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Selling Agents: CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE;
STEEL & BAKER, ADELAIDE; J. R. W. CARD AM, PERTH.


BLACK & SMOKELESS
SPORTING & MATCH
CARTRIDGES
Tri3 M3ST RELIABLE OF ALL
AMMUNITION.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
KYBLACK—BLACK POWDER,
SWIFT, BONAX, PRIMAX,
GASTIGHT, P.G. SMOKELESS
POWDER.
Wholesale only :
SCOTTISH HOUSE, 90 William St., Melbourne.
KYNOCII HOUSE, 277 Clarence St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
a
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ...£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid-up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
11. S. DOHEItTY, General Manager.
i/qrKOduit vw P"* turttuf
45'
fTPIPLE> 0.031 no
E.MASCULATOR.
ms" SAFETY"
Emasculator
does away with ail
risk of bleediii".
Postage Free 45 -
My ' Hints on Castrating "
enable any man used to stock
to cut with ths “Safety”
either Colts, liu'.ls Rams, or
ISoars.
Other patterns o f 9 a f O Rg
Emaseu-latcrs from
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3 6
is a lovely liir, of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
THE COMING OF THE RAIN.
IRISH COCKY: "Hooray! An hour's rain
like this will do more good in five minutes
than a week of it!”
“Tiaki’s” affidavit: That par. of “A
Chaffer’s” (B. 7/5/’l4) about an accused’s double
reminds me. Some years ago a young Maoriland
squatter who had taken a handsome half-caste
Maori maid to wife had occasion to regret it. He
loped in a co-respondent, and the case was going
his way until one of the witnesses —a “shovel-”
who had seen the lady occupy the co-re.’s most pri-
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
R OBSON: “ What do you call your baby , Johnson ?”
JOHNSON: “Day or night?”
vate apartment when he (the co re.) wasn't absent,
was asked to retire from the court room. When he
returned he was confronted by two handsome half-
caste ladies as much alike in appearance as two
long beers and dressed in costumes as much alike
as two new coppers out of the mint. “Now, sir,”:
said Costs, “which of these ladies is Mrs. Gaygirl ?
Be-e-e careful.” There was a tense stillness in the
court. The two sisters looked as if they were con-
structed out of brown wax, ■ and the witness (who
had driven them repeatedly) hesitated and then
blurted out, “I don’t know.” It. was a clever
though fatal mistake on the part of the handsome
respondent’s barrister —fatal because Mrs. Gaygirl
some time later appeared to answer a similar
charge, and “the person mentioned in the pleadings”
was this time the barrister who had rigged up her
twin sister at the previous proceedings.
“Brumby”: Concerning the difference be-
tween crocs, and ’gators. From a paper read by J.
Douglas Ogilby (“Proceedings of Jtoval Society of
Queensland,” Vol. XVIII) a few points might be quoted.
“The only character,” it sets out, “which separates
the true crocs, from the ’gators is the slightly in-
creased number of mandibular teeth in the latter
group.” The scientist points out, however, that since
many specimens of crocodiles in different parts of
the world also carry the same fang-armament as the
'gators, this distinction is not of sufficient value to
“warrant a separation of the two classes.” Just a
small further slab: “The well-known character orig-
inally pointed out by Cuvier, on which so much stress
has been laid, viz., that in Crocodilus the enlarged
fourth mandibular tooth fits into a notch in the
upper jaw, while in Alligator it is completely sheathed
within a pit, is not absolutely diagnostic, since speci-
mens of the short-snouted Crocodilus palustris of
India, Burma and the Malay Archipelago occur, whir'll
agree in this respect with the alligators. On the
other hand, the late Prof. Cope has described a sup-
posed alligator in which the fourth tooth on one side
flts into a notch and on the other into a pit. This
is, of course, an accidental variation.” I: could
hit Abo-liars over the head with similar opinions
from different authorities, all agreeing on the point
that if there's any distinction between crocs, and
’gators, it’s not worth spilling good beer over. By
the way re the slickness of the Bananaland crocgator.
An old chap related to me once that, having camped
with his family on a slope overlooking a far-north
river, his little girl, aged about seven, went down
to fill the billy. As she stooped at the brink he hap-
pened to notice what looked like a black log
silently slide into the water on the opposite bank, a
hundred yards away. He screamed a warning, but
before the affrighted child had moved back two steps
there Was a swish of a black tail and the next
instant she had disappeared from view. The father
had the melancholy revenge of killing the reptile
after a month’s patient waiting.
“Marloo”: Clarence River banana-growers
are up against an enigma in the shape of a disease
among their plants. Three years ago the evil made
its appearance on a farm, and has since spread into
most of the Lower River plantations. The pestilence,
from its characteristics, is known locally as pear-top,
bunch-top, blight or rust, and is dissimilar to any
defined disease on the State’s list. It attacks the
trees at all stages, stunts them and masses the leaves
together in a head. Sometimes the fruit fails to
appear; in other cases the bunches wither up com-
pletely. Recently an officer, sent by the biological
branch of the Department of Agriculture to report
on the epidemic, was so bewildered by it that he
diagnosed the trouble as due to lack of proper culti-
vation. I don’t know his address, but his name was
Mud.
THE DIZZY LIMIT.
The latest claims of the A.W.U. have created
astonishment at the executive offices of the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association.
ASTONISHED COCKY: "Wot ': Yer want wages
besides yer tucker?”
“Jane”: Listen; where do I come in in
this vaunted workers’ paradise? 1 work at a country
pub for the staggering remuneration of 16s. a week.
I am a housemaid-waitress. I get roused out at
6.30 a.in. and am kept going until 8 p.m., that is,
if the “Rural Worker” and “United Laborer” don’t
come marching into the dining-room full of beer
and politics about 7.45 p.m. This pans out at about
13 hours a day, seven days a week, which gives 91
hours’ toil each week. Moreover, the fare to the
place of employment is advanced by the agent in
Sr dney under a six months’ agreement, anri the
amount is kept in hand out of wages, and refunded
if I complete my term. I have been here five months
and the missus is making the pace so hot that I
think she wants me to resign my lucrative position
and forfeit the 30s. she holds in trust for me. The
old cat!
TRIUMPHANT YET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adelaide saddle and harness makers are complain-
ing bitterly of a great slump in business, brought
about by the ever-increasing popularity of the motor-
car and its sturdier brother, the motor lorry.
—Adelaide newspaper item:
Let motor-cars parade the Block and take the well-
worn ways,
And through the measured darkness let their dazzling
headlights blaze ;
On asphalt street and gravel path let each of them
career—
It’s obvious, old plodding horse, you have no chances
here! *
1 ■' •
But out where mountains raise their peaks Jfeto tl.ic:
• ' silent sky ; ,^
Where breaking cattle pierce the scrub, and fbng :
maned brumbies fly;
Where rock and tree and precipice are close on ev’ry
■side,
This ,is your place of privilege:—your privacy of
► -P rklc! < v . • *>“
Where granite boulders bar the way, and where the
j echoes wake
In eerie sequence to the sound your crashing onsets
make;
Where stones displaced roll down a gulch a thousand
feet below, - ? , '
Well might you"dare the finest car to fdlloW'where
| you go. A
Where great trees totter overhead,- and yawning
fissures are,
Well might you fling the victor's taunt at Adipose’s
car ;
Well might you arch your neck, old-horse', and sniff
the scented breeze —
For never motor-ear can come to fastnesses like
these!
Tt cannot bring the brumby home, nor wheel the
startled steer,
Despite the paint that it disports, and all its costly
* gear.
It cannot jump a fallen log that you would scorn to
shun,
Or leap across a gully’s depth as you have often done.
And out across the black soil plains, where goes
Merino’s load,
You still can claim the ownership of what is called
the road !
In fact, if chauffeur should defy the danger and the
doubt,
The odds are ten times ten to one you’ve got to haul
him out!
The car may win the easy paths where once you
reigned supreme ;
Its lights may flame and flash where once the coach’s
used to gleam;
But where the range and wilderness their wild con-
fusion fling
Well might, you revel yet, for there you are un-
challenged king!
x.s w.
R. J. CASSIDY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Nitro”: The South Africans are having
b;ul luck over, the Australian cricketing visit next
season. Hill and Trumper, who are unavailable,
would have been big gate attractions. Yet, as players,
though still able to compile large scores against weak
bowling, they’ are undoubtedly on the wane. Fur-
ther, were they to go, they would for certain have
been captain and vice-captain respectively. This
would have been good for Africa, because if there
is a worse possible captain in first-class cricket than
Hill, it is Trumper. To compensate for their poor
leadership they would want to hit up big scores,
which no doubt they would do against Griqualand
ami such, but it's very doubtful that they would in
the tests. Hansford’s absence is not such a calamity
either, as since returning from the 1909 English trip
his cricket has not been up to his reputation. As
things are now Australia, without the alleged “stars,”
has a compact, solid team, certain to be well cap-
tained, and, despite the strangeness of the wickets,
should do well.
The varied kinds of motors continue to
swell in the Ma State. To June 18 the registrations
had climbed to 15,265, which were made up of 8898
cars, 5611 motor-cycles, 517 commercial vehicles and
239 taxis. The quadruped is gradually being
pushed off the street by the more speedy, dust-raising
opponent. So by-and-bye the horse will be practi-
cally dead and extinct. And then the supply of
petrol, which is an irreplaceable asset, will give
out, and the car will cease to move. So there will
be a hurried search for the lost, neglected, scorned,
despised horse, and it will be found that only one oi
the species remains, and it is 22 years old, and that it
ciyh’t be bought under £BOO,OOO. After which people
will walk, or hire other people to push them along
jfi wheelbarrows.
/** » . *
Amateur athleticism in NIS.W. is in a
parlous state, and the A.A.A. treasury is as bare as
Mother Hubbard’s cupboard. So bare, indeed, that
unless a windfall hits it, or a fairy god-mother
niaterialises from the vasty deep in the shape of a
fatman or two with a cheque-book, the Ma State will
not be represented at the Australasian Cross Country
Championships at Melbourne on September 20. At
present N.S.W. holds the title, and apparently its
chances of retaining it depend upon the ability of
would-be defenders to pay their own fares to the
scene of the upheaval. As far as the public is con-
cerned, amateur athleticism is as dead as Moses and
Aaron.
# * * *
Yankee motor-cyclist Baker, who left San
Diego, in California, to establish a new trans-
America record was doubly successful. The distance
was 3557 miles, and the previous best was that of
V. Davis, who got through in 20 days, nine hours
and one minute. That performance was utterly
smashed. Baker, mounted on a seven hp. “Indian,”
roared over the distance in the amazing time of 11
days 12 hours and lOmin. He left San Diego on
May 3, and on the 15th of the same flowery month
was eating clam-chowder in Gotham's gilded halls.
His double success is due to the still more astounding
fact that he beat the motor-car record for the same
run by three days. He seems to have stuck to the
job very strenuously, and on one day ran over 375
miles in 16 hours. . His only troubles were eight
tyre-punctures. But it strikes one as a laborious
way in which to enjoy life.
* * * W
Jeff Smith and Australia can congratulate
one another. Although he met Carpentier and
performed brilliantly in France, the last lot of
Yankee record books that came to hand carefully
ignored the record of Jeff Smith. Also, no particular
attention was taken of battles fought in Australia.
Yankee boxers in this country were treated by the
press of their own as though they were dead, or
otherwise out of the game. But all that is changed
now. One of the last batch of New York Police
Gazettes contains a full-page supplement portrait
of Jeff Smith, and most of our big scraps receive
honorable mention.
Jack Johnson got a fit of cold shivers re-
cently when he found out certain wealthy Americans
were moving heaven and earth in Paris to secure his
deportation as an “undesirable.” It seems that the
French law provides that if a foreigner is deported
as being too putrid for Parisian streets be must be
sent straight back to the country of which he is a
citizen. And in Johnson’s case be would have been
slung on board a steamer at Havre and steamed
straight to New York. There are a lot of people in
New York who are very anxious to see Johnson, and
whom Johnson is desperately anxious to avoid meet-
ing—in U S.A. So as a French citizen cannot be
deported from France except to a penal settlement,
Jack hurriedly took out papers of naturalisation.
In Paris they have boxing matches be-
tween women, and recently Miss Marthe Carpentier
knocked out Mrs. Warner in a contest for the
Woman’s Championship. Mr. Warner explained his
wife’s defeat afterwards in this way: “I ant sorry to
say my wife got beat, or at least had to finish in the
fourth round, as her hair got in her eyes in the third
round, and she had to stop to wipe the hair from the
front of her eyes, and the other took the opportunity
to punch her for all she was worth all the time.
Bail luck, as the missus was punching her to pieces,
and Marthe wanted to chuck it in the second round,
but her seconds coaxed her to go on.” So it seems
that in a female boxing contest the fair combatants
aim for one another’s hair, with a view to getting it
in the way. But what sort of a bloke or cove is Mr.
Warner, and what sort of life does he have of it with
a woman who is a trained pug? One cannot help
wondering if she was a pug when he married her, or
was he mad enough to let her acquire such a danger-
ous art after he espoused her.
* * #
“John P.” : When Carbine, as a five-year-
old carrying 9st. lib., was narrowly defeated by
Marvel, with 9st. up, in the A.J.C. All-aged Stakes,
he had 16 consecutive victories to his credit. That
surely is a record? Also, out of 43 starts the great
son of Musket only once failed to get a place. That
looks like another record. If it isn't, it ought to be.
(Continued on page 32.)


i
THREE
»
y*-*
.■
P
•**»—**V
&&
>
*~~-
1
t;^4
r~-i o <-> i"*
oo r £
Its the
EXTRA
MILEAGE
that counts
Continental
C.&.G Rubber Coy
All Scares s< M Z


WINIFRED'
w
nT
R
E
D
c
I
G
A
X
B
S
J,
% *r
wmM
■m
wii^ —^
-■'■■-
WJE
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
rsr
i
A
io
FOR
6d
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., London. Eng
20
FOR
1 /-
"F.C.” M'KITES with a pen steeped in lime-
juice :
The Federal Royal Commission that has been
delving into the fruit industry for many months past
has handed in a report containing 29 recommenda-
* ions varying from the disinfection of fruit waggons
to the establishment of Commonwealth-owned lines of
oversea and inter-State steamers. Of course, none ot
them will be carried out. . That is what the-recom-'
mendations of a Commission are for. Meanwhile the
fruit-growing industry, especially the export part of
it, is, as the Commission discovered, getting into the
strangling grip of the agent, dealer and trader, and
is rapidly being- reduced to the anaemic condition of
the Victorian butter-growing business before the
awful exposures of the Butter Commission showed the
dairy farmers the necessity of spiflieating the “agent”
and butting into the co-operative business themselves.
The same road that the Vic. butter-growers followed
lies open to the fruit-growers of the Commonwealth.
They should form district co-operative societies for
the purchasing of their requirements and the local
marketing of fruit; and they should federate for the
purposes of exporting their produce and marketing
it at home and abroad. It is just as easy, and
would prove just as profitable, for the fruit-grower
to co-operate as the butter-producer, and unless he
does j so he will presently find that his business
hardly pays wages.” As regards two varieties of
his products—plums and apricots—he is already
largely under the thumb of certain “commercial
men, ’ known as the Jam Combine; and if he con-
tinues on his foolish, individualistic way he will but
prove an easier victim for those persons whose main
occupation is to exploit him—agents, dealers, traders,
commercial parasites or sharks.
“Nose” writes:—•
An extraordinary libel case recently came before
a Maoriland Court, the parties to the action being
nephew and uncle, bearing the same , name. The
evidence disclosed that the plaintiff’s mother, who
was a sister of the defendant, lived with a man in
London as his wife. The pair adopted the woman’s
maiden name, and the children were kent in ignor-
ance of the position. At the uncle’s suggestion, the
sister sent out one of the boys to M.L. to work in
the said uncle's bakery. The young man.toiled for
a few months, then, on a question of wages, was
dismissed. The uncle at the same time told fHo
nephew of his irregular parentage, advised him to
change his name, and followed this up y
inserting an advertisement in a newspaper, intimat-
ing that he was in no way connected with the nephew
bearing a similar name to his own, but whose right
name was So-and-so (name given). The uncle, on a
writ being issued against him for libel, offered to
apologise, and give the plaintiff the sum of £35.
This was deemed to be insufficient, and on the case
coming before tin; Court, the jury awarded him
£125. After that, presumably, uncle and nephew
didn’t speak as they passed by.
“H.”: The rank and file of Labor are
notoriously ungrateful to the people from
whom they have received benefits. For in-
stance, tbe Owe’Sullivan was a god at the
Trades Ilall (Sydney) at one time, and, in
words, the unionists showed great apprecia-
tion of the benefits he had conferred. When
he was dead an O’Sullivan Memorial Com-
mittee was formed at the Ilall, but after a
painful existence it went out as quietly as
possiblq. It had done something, but very
little. The other day the Labor Council
decided to hang a portrait of Bill Lyne in
its meeting room; but even that was not
carried without opposition. Yet Lyne was
almost as much a hero, in his last days,
amongst Laborites as the Owe’Sullivan; and
the amount he did to benefit the workers
will never be fully known.
By “The Old Soldier”: —
The Anglican Archbishop and clergy oi Sydney
have issued what they call a "protest against the
proposed coercion of Ulster.” (.They mean a small
section of Ulster.) Some people say this is sedi-
tion, and perhaps it might be, if it were not
such extreme foolishness. They say the Home
Rule Bill means the horrors of civil war, if passed,
and that the horrors can only be averted either by
excluding Ulster, “or submitting the measure to
the judgment of the electors of the United King-
dom.’ The people who signed that must imagine
they are living in the lfitii century, for they say
the Belfast and Derry folk believe home Rule will
imperil their civil and religious liberties. The
people of Ulster, too, seem to have learned nothing
since the siege of Londonderry, which was one of the
least important sieges in all history. If they go to
Canada they will find civil and religious liberty,
from their point of view, safer in the-R.C. province
of Quebec than in Ontario. In the Austrian Em-
pire, the most ultramontane in Europe except Spain,
civil and religious liberty is never interfered with.
Incidentally, Marshal Benedek, who commanded the
Austrian army in 186(1, was a Protestant. In
Bohemia it is reported that a great number of
people who had, like their ancestors, conformed and
gone to mass to please the authorities, have declared
themselves of the Hussite Reformed Church, and
during the present year a great festival has been
held at Prague to celebrate the anniversary of a
victory gained by the half-blind Bohemian general,
Zisca, over Stephen, King of Hungary. The final
decisive victory, in which Zisca lost his second eye,
was represented in a game of living chess. No
one’s civil and religious liberties 'can be much hurt
in this 20th century in any civilised country, as
the Archbishop and his clergy ought to know.
Even Joe Cook couldn’t do it.
The Vic. burglar is not wholly pleased at
the incompetence of the Force. It preju-
dices the profession in all sorts of unexpected
ways. For example, last week some busy
robbers spent many hours and blunted many
tools in breaking open three safes on busi-
ness premises in Melbourne city. The first
gave a lot of trouble, but was ultimately
“cracked” —and found to contain a Cash
book. The second was placed on rollers and
bags and gently pushed to a quiet back room,
where the investigators wasted much time
trying to prise off the side before they dis-
covered the door wasn’t locked. It .contained
two bunches of keys and some papers. The
fjord yielded some return, for the loss of a
broken chisel and a damaged crowbar that
the experimenters left behind — vv/,., 4d. The
prevalence of tbe unapprehended burglar has
evidently caused the local capitalist to plank
all his personalty in safe deposits. Either
that or capital has really begun to leave the
country.
“Feeder” writes: —
The late Mrs. Paula Tanqueray used to remark
in the midst of her family troubles that "the 1' uture
is only the Past entered by another gate.’ If one
stands off and examines the observation, it is seen
to be a champion depresser. It is a gem of ser-
pentine wisdom that a painstaking English plaj -
wright might have picked up somewhere in Asia,
and stored away as a tragic top-note for a big
scene. And there is enough truth in it to make
the listener thrill responsively every time. Life is
more or less like a plate; and the only way to keep
moving continuously on a circular piece of crockery
is to keep on going round and round. All this is
bv way of introduction to the announcement that
the writer heard last week that the neat little tea-
room where he feeds on provender that is cooked in
the home manner, and served up by soft-spoken
ladies is about to close. The manageress explains
briefly that wages have gone up so far that she can’t
carry on at a profit; and then she smiles sadly over
the cash register and changes the subject. The
lady food-bringers, for their part, are laying plans
for’ being tvnistes and dentists’ door-openers. The
old-time gaiety has departed from the place, for
there is no joy in changing jobs or food, and the
customers chew their roast beef sadly and speak in
hushed, confidential voices. They may not be aware
of it, but they are depressed because the door of
the Past has swung open to admit them to the
Future —the Future that isn’t new. Some 15 years
ago, before the present burst of prosperity was
planned, dainty little tea-rooms were dotted every-
where. They were run mostly by ladies who had
been flung on the labor market through the bursting
of the Boom That Went Before. The well-run
tea-room, with the intelligent lady in charge, was
one of the beneficent results of the lean years. It
was an inspiration of some intelligent female who
had nothing but her housewifely knowledge to sell,
and the cause of Good Food was exalted thereby.
But a succession of good seasons and a string of
heroic political borrowers have made things so jolly
all round that everybody (including the lady tea-room
attendant) has to have a few more shillings to buy
her share of fun. And the little tea-room, having
to pay in addition a lot more for its
supplies and a ’ lot more for its rent, finds
that the margin of profit has vanished, and that the
Tea Room Age has passed. It wouldn’t be quite so
harrowing if one could be sure that Gargantua’s
Limited (with 125 branches) would fill the future
with nicely-mannered girls and dainty food at reas-
onable prices. But the chances are that Gargantua’s
will merely supply a hurried, snappy girl and food
that has been dashed about in large masses.
The results of prosperity—or what looks like pros-
perity—are sometimes infuriating and bad for the
liver.
The invaluable Knibbs has just thrown
out another handful of figures which show,
when you blow the dust off them, that Aus-
tralia is a good place to leave if you don’t
find life worth living. So far three coun-
tries, Australia, Sweden and Italy, have
produced official statistics, based mainly on
the last census, to show how long their
people may expect to dodge the undertaker.
Sweden is notoriously a hard nut for any
oilier country to crack in a competition of
this sort —much the hardest, it is believed,
of all European countries. Australia, never-
theless, manages to get its teeth into the
kernel. True, the figures don’t all go
Australia’s way. For instance, vyhen you
are 50 in Sweden you may expect to live
another 23.2 years if you have the 1 average
Swedish luck and are a male. In Aus-
tralia you could look forward to only 21.2
years—just two years less. On the other
hand the Australian kid dies in so much
smaller numbers than the Scandinavian that
in the bulk the Australian figures are the
better. Of every 1000 little male Austra-
lians S6G live to be 10-year-olds, and only
§4B Swedes. It is the same right through.
£ nearly the end of the chapter Of every
1000 male Australians <o9 live to be 4U, 3a
against 719 Swedes ; at 00 there are -708
Australians and 566 Swedes living. After
at the s wede wins. The female experi-
- , camp a, mie-ht he exnected
ence is the same. As might he expeciea
the Italian figures are bad enough to make
you shudder. » llile 780 out of every 1000
females ill Australia live to be 40, only 588
{ j Q j n j ta j y When the little Australian
55.2. years to do his hit for the countrj he
is in ; when the little Dago comes he only
looks ill for 43.7 years Oil the average,
. -ii
D. I. Russell, who made things very Will-
jpg f o r Alfred Deakill at Ballarat ill 1910,
( w lnl , n )lnnp
ancl 111 4,110 tollgllt a tolloin nope against
Iceberg Irvine in Flinders and did astonish-
i ly u wiU not be candidate at this
‘ ’ . .. , .
election. Attll tile last tl a ht lie was
appointed organiser for the l lilted Bab-
orers’ Union, and then signed on with the
Timber Workers in Tasmania. Thinking
at u would have as good a chance as
mai nc wouiu na e as goou a wuu as
anyone to defeat the Iceberg, Bussell nonu-
nated lately for the selection ballot for r lin-
ders. The local committees approved; but
before file business had been finalised, an
j ucr j m i na fi n g document was discovered. In
. . _ q. . . ~ , ,
brief, Russell had replied to some parson
who had been asking why working men did
not go to church, and had explained why
h e di(l not go> why ],is children did not go,
, i i Diinlr -mv of them
and why he did not think any ot them
would go. It had nothing whatever to do
with Russell’s polities—no more than Rus-
sell's private views regarding boiled potatoes
versus roast. Apparently, however, the
p n ij*;„ nl r„bnr Vvocitivo thought differ-
-4 oil tlcal Ijahoi B- it t e •
cntly, as it wrote to Russell that the letter
had been brought under notice, and endorse-
ment of his candidature withheld to allow
t:h e campaign committee in the electorate to
, i T» 11(! „„n onnrterl and withdrew
c '? al wltn . lt- Kussell snoitea ana Wltnarew
name from the list of applicants. . I hen
he sat down and wrote a blistering circular
for distribution among the unions and other
Labor bodies. It contained all the facts and
some rather pretty comment. So there are
the makings of a very nice row when next
conference, meets,, for Russell has any num-
her of friends, in addition to having the
p oWer f u i Timber Federation behind him.
, „ . . , ...
Justice Nicholls, of the lasmaman
Supreme Court, who is made Chief Justice
j ll succession to “Johnny’ Dodds, deceased,
D an old Ballarat boy. His father, H. R.
Nicholls, not long deceased, was a journalist
of the Victorian mining city who went over
to Ilobart to edit “old Jack” Davies’s Mer-
curt, and stayed in the chair a quarter of
a century. The older pressmen of Melbourne
will remember a young Nicholls who worked
in Melbourne for a Ballarat paper. He
was a brother of the Tasmanian Chief Jus-
tice. The new chief put on wig and gown
22 years ago. For some years he was in
the State Parliament, and a decade of years
ago became Attorney-OeneraL Later on
Nicholls led the Opposition. He went to
the bench half a dozen years ago. A tall,
thin, reddish-haired man. clean-shaven, he is
not; distinguished by much dignity, but has
lots of common sense.
A FINANCIAL TABLEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. Br. Holman is Treasurer as well as Premier, and
his speech will be colored considerably by the sense
of responsibility felt by the man whose duty it is
to sit on the Treasury chest. It is likely that the
whole public works policy will be projected in the
light of what funds are to be available on the British
money market.— S. M. Herald.
There’s a hollow-sounding Premier on a hollow-
sounding chest,
And he’s making hollow noises to the people of the
West;
In his eye the loan-chunk fury; in his hand an
IOU;
In his heart the hope that Uncle—dear, old Uncle-
kind and true!
M ill not fail him in the future (Cheer Our Future
with its Dawn!)....
Tableau: ’Opeless ’Olman gabbling to the State he
means to pawn!
N.s.w.
ALPHONSE PARBLEU.


For COUGHS,
CROUP and
COLDS on the
CHEST.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
Cure.
1
n
5?
y
4
<f)
&
&
Vi
tu
F M E/TrnES "
'OTOMCHITO CORE
I No. (a f
FDR COUCHS
K
i HU II III! III! HUM;
' 111 •UIHIIII
J *
; »
i.WGMMRNEi
■k?WHB. r 'iFi.*
X &\
o
o
%
P
9>
X
D
ASTHMA
.1
*/?
COLDS
gljOU
.rtnOWf*'**' 1 ®
6oeb
SOHETH BOATS
lasi
u^inn;
!! !l!ll!!lllll!
Hill lIHIIIIB
.lllllllll
111 i!
5^
The most common form of Illness is what is often described as "Just a Cold”; but how many graves
have been prematurely filled with the victims of Bronchitis, Asthma, Pleurisy, Pneumonia
and Consumption ? These diseases almost invariably COMMENG E with “Just a Cold.”
Never treat a Cold lig'htly ; tackle it at once with
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure
when a dose or two is generally sufficient to completely cure it. A sudden attack of Croup in the
nig'ht is always promptly cured if this Medicine is AT HAND when wanted. Never be without a
bottle of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure in the House. A bottle in the House is worth two in the
Chemist's Shop. Don't go home without a bottle.
Sold by most Chemists and Stores. Price, 2/6 and 4/6 per bottle. If any difficulty in getting it, send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD. - - - GEELONG, Victoria.
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
Foods
| PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING AND MANAGEMENT FREE
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
There is no need for Australians to
use
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUDENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
WBBSF*
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles,
Price 6d.


15et. Gold and Platinoid Brooch,
set pearls and aquamarines, £6/10/-.
9ft. Gold Brooch, set pearls an(
garnet or amethyst, 12/6.
Oct. Gold Brace-
let, set diamonds and
led stones, 35/-
not. Gold
Earrings,
set pearls
and garnets,
20/- t
30 1-
s\'\»
liilSHs
w
itViw,
asff.vi
hi
'
Wg/tifk
@5
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, non-magnetic,
lull* jewelled, patent time spring, com-
pensation balance, 30/-. Extra jewelled,
35/-, 40/-. Gold-cased, 84/-. Solid
Gold, £7/10/-
35/-
AUNDERS
9
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER'
Gifts forihe Bride-to-be.
Charming Designs from Australia’s Great Jewellery
Palace, where your order will be personally executed
and promptly despatched.
9ct. Gold Links,
richly engraved, 20/-
loct. Gold, 40/-
Oct. Gold Spray Brooch,
set pearls and turquoise, 8/0.
Oct. Gold Fancy Spray
Brooch, set pearls and turquoise, or
all pearls, 20/-
9ct. Gold Pendant,
set pearls and amethysc
or garnet, 17/6.
18ct. Gold
Diamond Clus-
ter R i n g,
£7/10/-
18ct. Go 1 d,
set diamonds,
rubies or sapphires,
£5/10/-
1 Set. Gold
30/-. 18ct.
Gold, 40/-
15ct. Gold
25/-. 18ct
Gold, 30/-
131
m
• m
? -a. tj n
'^Edding
15ct. Gold,
40/-. 18ct.
Gold, 50/-
Oct. Gold 10/-
15ct. Gold 15/
18ct. G o 1 1
King, set dia
mends, £lO.
18ct. Gold,
all diamond clus-
ter ring.
£22/10/-
Oct. Gold, set
pearls and ame-
thysts or red stones,
25/-
WRITE FOR OUR SUPERB NEW
JEWELLERY SUPPLEMENT.
u.
&
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Bracelet, lull jewelled, lever movement, £4/10/-
807=817 George Street,
OPPOSITE
Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
9ct. Gold Sove-
reign and Half-
Sovereign Purse,
£4. Plain, £3/15/-
15ct.
Gold Brooch, set pure
cut diamonds, £5, £7/10/-
double-
.
15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch, set diamonds and tourma-
lines or aquamarines, £5/10/-
Oct. Gold
Earrings,
«"'t, pearls
and garnets,
17/6.
Oct. Gold Half
Round Bracelet,
richly chased, safety
chain, £2. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
20/-
\
/
y
\
Gent.’s NicKei 'Non-magnetic
Keyless Lever,- full jewelled,
patent balance, non-magnetic, time
spring, dust- and: water-proof cases,
20/-. Higher grades, 25/-, 30/-
25/-
Sir Luke White.
Hr. Landoa Ronald.
Mr. Hall Caine.
Mr. Henry Arthur Jones.
Madame Sarah Grand.
Mr. £. F. Benson.
Sir F. Milner.
What do you find best to keep you in good health ?
SOME DISTINGUISHED PEOPLE RELATE THEIR EXPERIENCE.
Mr. B. W. Leader, K.A.
“ ¥ HAVE given Sanatogen a fair
1 trial. My experience confirms
tlie medical opinion'—there is no
longer that feeling of fatigue which
one previously experienced, hut
there follows from its use a distinc f
restorative effect.”
/ a
“ OANATOGEN seems to me a very
valuable food and nerve tonic,
I have several times taken a course
of it when I have been run down,
and always with good results.”
Joliß E«BB.
“ O I R
O JOHN
BENN is
deriving
in u c h
benefit
from Sanat-
á
“ TV f \ ¥ experience nas been tnat, as
a tonic nerve food, Sanat-
ogen has on more than one occasion
done me good.”
Hate Gu'Mj
“ I FIND Sanatogen an excellent
1 tonic.”
“I HAVE been taking Sanatogen,
A and think that it has decidedly-
helped me to get through the ex-
tremely arduous work that I have
had to do during the past few
months.”
SANATOGEN has done every-
thing for me which it is said
to be able to do for cases of nervous
weakness and exhaustion. I began
to take it after nearly four years’
enforced idleness from extreme
ill-health, and now (after only four
months) I find myself able to enjoy
both work and play again.
“ CI R FREDERICK MILNER was
much run down from over-
work when he took Sanatogen, and
it certainly did good. He has more
than once sent supplies to poor
people, run down from illness or
overwork, and it has invariably
proved successful. It seems both to
nourish and give strength.”
“ I HAVE for two months been
■l suffering from a rather severe
attack of Congestion of the Lungs.
I am now recovering and rapidly
regaining strength, which I attribute
in a great measure to my having
taken Sanatogen twice daily for
some weeks.”
“ Q ANAT-
►3 OGEN
prom ises,
when you
are run
down, to
pick you
up. It does
so.”
Rev. Father Bernard Vaughaa.
Sanatogcn can be obtained of all Chemists
from 2/6d. per tin.


Australian
Established 1549.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
has money to lend
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
_ or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on 4 Australian 5 New
2&xr*- s, ““ current rates op interest.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege o a r ®P
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or p chairman • The
Directors— The lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. 1. V, alker, .Rep y- Lc . Adrian
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black.M.L.C. : 'the Hon. F. E.. W’” ch °XVd F i t
Knox, Esq.. K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick. M.D. General Manager and Actuary. Richard 1 ewe,
K.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, S ~
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE”
RECORDS BY
MADAME KIRKBY LUNN
This popular Covent Garden artiste has a
rich contralto voice of wonderful velvetness
and roundness. ller records, always keenly
sought, add immeasurably to the enjoyment
of a winter evening spent with an “Ilis
Master’s Voice” Gramophone.
m
The following records —merely a selection—reproduce
most notable triumphs :
some
lOin. 5/-
3875 The I’retty Creature.
3903 A Song of Sleep.
3897 Slave Song.
3918 Down Here the Billies Fade.
3913 Dlttle Brown Bird.
12in 7/6
03215 Auld Robin Grey.
03213 Deep in the Heart of a Rose.
03171 When the Stars Were Young.
12in. 7/6
03142 The Three Fishers.
03259 O Lovely Night.
03287 In Sweet September.
08302 Love Not the World (Prodigal
Son).
03269 O Best in the Lord (Elijah).
03295 (a) Bose in the Bud.
(b) It is not because Tour Heart
is Mine.
03182 (a) Love is a Dream.
(b) O that We Two.
SOLD BY ACCREDITED "HIS MASTERS VOICE” DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Complete Lists, Instrument Catalogue and
name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES FOR
The GRAMOPHONE CO. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
à
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
,
PS
EVANS
FORMULA OF THE LIVERPOOL THROAT HOSPW
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
Pastiffes
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: —“I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.” ...
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them. I-
GET BUSY.
START SPEEDING UP.
Blunt tools soon make a man blunt. Be
sharp—what you want is Danks’ Ball-
bearing Treadle Grindstone. No handle to
turn —by using your feet both hands can be
devoted to the delicate work of sharpening.
As easy as riding a bike down hill—nothing
to get out of order —one of the greatest time
and labor savers for the man who uses
cutting tiols. Reliable and good.
Price 37/6.
John Danks & Son
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
THE SPECIAL HOUSE FOR TOOLS.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
'Near Liverpool Street),
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
'\ k ' N
\ \
ss
VJ
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
SIEMENS “WOTAN”
Half-Watt Lamps.
srj >
a
p
r H
“WOTAN” Half-Watts are tlie most economical and efficient Lamps
for all illumination —interior and exterior.
They are now made in the following sizes:
6 8 10, 12 Volts, 50 and lOOc.p.j 30-G5 Volts, 200c.p.;
30-130 Volts, 400c.p.; 50-160 Volts, GOOc.p.; 50-260 Volts,
1000, 1500 and 2000 c.p.; 80-260 Volts, 3000c.p.
Call and see them at our Showrooms, or write for Illustrated
Price Lists.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Ltd.,
59 William Street, Melbourne.
42 Bridge Street, Sydney.
tS
&
\s&
C\
1
USE
Substantial
SAVINGS
thereby effected
on Jewelry, Silver plate, Watches, etc.
New Illustrated Catalog now ready; a copy mailed to you on request.
We pay the full postage to any address in Australia.
J auu
'OWSO7IZ
(AUSTRALIA)
Ltd.


A BOON TO ATHLETES.
FOUND COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND
BONE LINIMENT MOST EFFECTIVF
bruises RAINED muscles AND
The powerful, penetrating qualities of
Comstock s Nerve and Bone Liniment make
it invaluable for a strained muscle or bruise
Applied according to directions, it very soon
1 educes a swelling, from whatever cause
.Being unfortunate at various times”
writes Mr. E A. Lang, of Oxford, Woll-
ongong Road, Arncliffe, “to meet with sev-
eral bruises and overstrain of muscle, suffi-
cient to render me incapable of fulfilling my
ordinary duties with satisfaction. I used
only one _ bottle of Comstock’s Nerve and
Bone Liniment on each occasion, and was
able to continue work very quickly after-
wards. On one important occasion I was
kicked by a horse in the thigh, and though
the biuise was very painful, causing a slight
lameness, only half a bottle of liniment was
necessary to give relief, and in a few days I
was well again As a boon to athletes'and
skaters, for bruised limbs, strains and
sprains I am sure nothing can be better.”
±o be obtained from all chemists and
or 9 wll j., be sent Post paid on receipt
ot price. 2s. 6d. per bottle, by The W. H
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.*
CUT THIS OUT.
A REMARKABLE COUGH SYRUP RE-
CIPE THAT SAVES ABOUT TEN
SHILLINGS ON READY-MADE
COUGH MEDICINES.
As there seems to be a regular epidemic
of colds and influenza at the present time,
the following recipe will be welcomed by
many _ Secure from your chemist 2oz. mim
tol (triple extract), and add to it i-pint of
hot water and Jib of granulated sugar;
stu until well dissolved and mixed Take
one teaspoonful four times a day this will
give instant relief, and will usually cure The
most obstinate cough within 24 hours This
cougli syrup i S very pleasant to take, is most
excellent for sore throat, slight coMs, and
as a preventive against the more serioSs
affections of the respiratory organs, such as
consumption and pneumonia, which develop
so frequently from these troubles. As it
. a]s » , certain nourishing and
strength-giving elements, it is most suitable
for the convalescent stage. If y ou do not
go yourself to the chemist, instruct voui
messenger that he must ask for the triple
extract of mintol.* mpie
HORSESHOE
SALMON
- Richer than Meats and contains the
same amount of Fat.-It is even better
than fresh fish because it is cooKed in the
can, therefore none of the goodness can
escape. Always insist on “Horseshoe.”
It’s DELICIOUSLY FRESH
POLITICAL
POINTS
« u ”0» are afloat regarding substantial
gratuities' granted to certain Federal elec-
toral officials by the Cook Min-
istiy. Ihe stories may be
untrue, but what’s all the mys*
tery about, anyway? If the
gratuities are deserved, there is
no reason why they should be
kept a secret. To hand gifts
over with, as it were, a mere
wink encourages the Opposi-
tion to make sinister suggestions
ol ] . , subject— suggestions
which would doubtless be a
iiOGi on a hard-working, consci-
entious body of men. Never-
theless, if the mystery continues,
the suggestions stand a chance
ot being more disagreeable should
the Lookoos reach the Treasury
nests again. The only safe thing
feated? SePh and hiS brethren * s to get de-
Higgs, M.H.R., took the blame for the
\r a rTV nC « dent which he and Webster,
I.R figured m the last session of the
Federal Parliament; but the Committee ap-
pointed t° investigate the more important
aftair of the destruction of the Speaker’s
notes has been unable to denounce the auiltv
party, although it has an idea that it
do some good guessing. Conroy MII R
might a little tale unfold. He happened to
be passing the Chamber, when he was Ssked
whether it was a fair thing (in polftiS)
one el e° y Tr e ? in - g fi that belonged to
one else. The significance of the hypotheti-
cal proposition only developed hours P after-
wards when the Speaker’s notes were re-
ported missing. The Whip heard the story
and so in due time did the Select Committee
telle?' , r ? mei P ber . ed the fate of the tale-
tellei and claimed privilege. The facts were
never therefore officially told, and all that
be said is that it wasn’t Higgs, it wasn’t
Conroy, and it wasn’t Johnson himself.
Westralia s _ Country Party is composed
almost exclusively of old Groper farmers,
whose loudest bellow is for Freetrade. There
is, however, one sound plank in the plat-
form—that is, a promise to clamor for Elec-
tive Ministries. Recent events have
demonstrated to the Groper that he
is in a cold place in the countrv he
thought to keep all to himself. With the
I erth Liberals in power, only the city gains
anything; and with goldfields’ Labor at the
helm, the farmer receives but scant con-
sideration. So the Gropers sadly conclude
that if they are to have any power at all
there must be a change of some sort; and
they grab for the one which they feel pretty
sure will come with a little more coaxing.
Section 148 of the N. S. Wales Local
Government Act is beginning to get in its
work upon ratepayers who don’t pay rates.
Ihe section provides that if owners allow
four years’ rates to remain unpaid the coun-
cil may take possession of the property. The
local authorities may not dispose of it, but
they may lease it for terms not exceeding
seven years; and at the expiration of 16
years if the rates are still banking up un-
paid the property falls absolutely into the
council’s possession. The Balmain Council
the other day discovered that rates had not
beon.paid for four years upon 11 allotments
within the municipality, and the bailiff was
given another little job straight away.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Fenton, M.P., characterises Cook’s statement that
' ei l?f e was responsible for the non-appearance
of the Bureau of Agticulture Bill as “a lie of the
most amazing type.” Joseph appears to be approach-
ing that overwrought mental condition which induces
the sufferer to be careless of the truth. Half a
dozen pressmen on the spot saw unmistakable signs
of the approaching double dissolution; but, relying
on Joseph’s oft-repeated statement that there would
be nothing doing until the second test Bill had been
put through, they went home and slept peacefully.
One Age man was an unbeliever, and the next morn-
lng his paper enjoyed a great scoop—so great, in
fact, that in its exuberance it could not resist reiter-
ating its exclusive announcement until the third day.
the Annus had practically the same information as
its contemporary, but did not print it, as it still
had faith in Joseph. The latest illustration of the
1 rime Munster’s mental strain has to do with the
announcement of the date of the dissolution. To
several Melbourne pressmen he mentioned July 20.
U»his arrival in Sydney the next day it was still the
20th As a matter of fact the 20th was an impossi-
ble date from the point of view of the rolls, and
some ui gent official telegrams caused Joseph to jump
to the 30th, explaining that “a mistake had been
made in the announcement from Melbourne.” Most
of the newspapers, however, declined to take the
bJame, and Joseph, not the reporters, was made to
hump the burden. Joseph ought to have a look at
himself. When hardened sinners like political re-
porters begin to sniff, it’s a sure sign that things
ill ov , er the . odds - No Pressman attended at
the Parliamentary wind-up in the refreshment-room,
and even Joseph should be keen enough to see that
that meant something.
A POLITICAL FIND.
AUS.: “ Cripes! But I thought your sort were
almost extinct in these parts nowadays! ”
Conroy is a misfortune to a party which
is trying to forget its past, or, at all events,
to chloroform Australia into forgetting it.
He told an audience the other day that an
Australian navy was a mistake, and that the
Commonwealth should lean on poor old dis-
tracted Mother for naval defence; that com-
pulsory training should be abolished, and the
uncertain volunteer re-established; that the
land-tax was iniquitous; that national irri-
gation works were a danger; and that Trusts
should be allowed to do much as they pleased
Ihe mixed crowd behind Cook has plenty of
people in it quite as reactionary as Conroy •
but it is unlikely that many of them will
express themselves as honestly. When Cook
produces a policy—if ever he does produce
a policy they will pretend enthusiasm
about ail the things which they and Cook
dislike, and they will try to hide their
stomachs and look as if their loud cheers
were genuine.
The Argus, giving its send-off to Cham-
berlain, lamented his action in leaving the
Unionists, because that gave the British
Liberals their chance “to force Home Rule
in defiance of the Revising Chamber.” This
horror of any “defiance” of the House of
Lords is mildly amusing in the paper which
denies our own comparatively democratic
“revising chamber” the right even to in-
quire from a casual Governor why it has
been sacked.
KEEPING THE DOG QUIET.
JOE COOK: “Just stop howling until after the
elections, and then I’ll give you this nice
bone.”
From Sydney Telegraph (9/6/T4)
■Wireless is the method by which frantic operators'
at Darwin may some day send, and startled re-
corders at I ennant Hills receive, word of strange'
things happening in the East.
It will indeed be a great day for science when
some lonely operator on the Arafura Sea:
flashes to the Parramatta-Hornsby district
the news of regions as far east as Coogee'
and Manly Beach. But why should he go'
to the distant North to do it?
Premier Holman promises “a reform of
the cumbersome procedure of Parliament.”
Good! By way of a start, something might
be done with the Usher of
the Black Rod—the indivi-
dual in low-comedy rig who
on occasion invades the
Assembly carrying a painted
pole. This, utterly super-
fluous stick-bearer suddenly
appeared on the floor of the
Assembly at the opening of
the State Parliament, and
with many bows and twirl-
ings of his waddy com-
manded members to attend
his Ex. at the Council
Chamber. “When are we
going to reform this?” loudly
demanded a Laborite of a
brother member. But all the
reply he got was “Hush!”
in a horrified chorus from
Liberalism.
In an article on the small-
pox menace the Argus
(7/7/’l4) declared that “in
matters of health of this
grave character the continent
should be regarded as a
single, entity, and the admin-
istration should be placed
under one control.” Cer-
tainly ; and as Federal con-
trol of the small-pox menace
is thus admittedly a good
thing, the Argus might ex-
plain why the same Federal
control of the Trust menace
(as suggested in Fisher’s
referendum proposals) should
mean the Devil and damnation.
The muddled metaphor of Joseph Cook
Something has happened in the Caucus about tbfe
question of Defence. They propose to shorten
and go warily, and heave the Bundaberg Dr#ub'
noughts overboard to the bottom of the sea.
Let the cook stick to his frying-pan. Also,
he would be wise to allow sleeping d.n#&-to
lie. It was only in April, 1910, tlifU-the
people turned down his Dreadnought • and
threw him overboard, with what was-.. in-
tended to be a ton weight round"! his; -poli-
tical neck. *
Gregory, M.H.R. for Dampier-. (W-.A.).
has met an unexpected diJTicu.ltj with
courage and resource. The. newly-formed
-Country party, which is benighted enough
to want Freetrade, holds the. key to the
constituency; and when it; .put the position
before 11. Gregory he prayed for light
and leading, and got it. By removing the
Protection plank from his old Liberal raft,
and inserting the Freetrade batten in its
place, he reckons he has constructed sorae-
thing which will ferry him safely over,
that’’"’ t k Ut trouble about “after
A QUESTION OF SOME INTEREST
TO AUSTRALIA .
In fact, it is generally recognised that this trial
shipment of Indian residents has been deliberately
engineered for the purpose of inflaming rebel feeling
in India against British rule. They have tested the
position with the anticipation of certain defeat, but
they have known that their seheme would excite in-
creased animosity towards Britain in India.
—Sydney TELEGRAPH.
THE EXCLUDED ONE: “ Now to make his old
man sit up!”
THE TIME HAS COME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The time has come to duck and .scrape
And kiss the baby’s nose ;
To trot along- the gibe and jape
And don a noble pose ;
When perks and place in danger swim
And things are insecure,
How do they smite with mortal vim,
Our politicians pure!
The time has come to yell: “You lie!”
, And answer, “You’re another!”
To say your foe would find a sty
The refuge of his brother ;
The time has come when cltfds and dirt
Should hurtle fast and free,
When ev’ry speaker’s shining’ shirt
S a target on the spree.
The time has come to tell the folk
Their ears are never long ;
To shake their ribs with empty joke
And sing the good old song
1 hat tells a tale of carrots fine
That make a donkey grin
To think how gaily he must dine
If Johnson hustles in !
The time has come when Self trots out
As spotless public zeal,
And all the raving rabids shout
To show the fire they feel ;
The time has come when Hope deceives
And throws a party bait
1' or Jones’s jaw, and Jones believes
His vote the voice of Fate.
The time has come when Faction’s cries
Must drown the Country’s need,
When rival mob with rival vies
To boost up narrow greed ;
When ev’ry would-be’s eager face
Is bright with party lacquer,
And ev’ry would-be shows his grace
By painting others blacker.
The time has come to lift our land
From out this party Sheol,
And put the reins in some true hand
Of robust man and real.
At least, that’s what we’d like to hope •
But, meantime, Mob and Mammon
Tie up our hands with Faction’s rope,
And play the farce of Gammon.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
WHERE HAS IT GONE?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne, Wednesday.—According to the latest
figures published, the output of the Royal Mint since
its establishment in 1872 has consisted of 126,032,3*40
sovereigns, 1,767,895 half-sovereigns," and 3,479,1630 z.
of gold bullion, the total value of the coin and
bullion being £137,879,450.— News item.
It was never my habit to splash
In pink dissipation my cash;
With my pence as a child
I was modest and mild—
As a youthlet I never was flash.
When my sweethearting days came around,
I would spend an occasional pound
On a girl I adored,
But, my pocket explored,
There was naught in the bank to be found.
Moderation was always my line;
Though relatives counted it fine,
And wished ruefully they
Could exist the same way,
And no horrible notes of hand signj
I was never puffed up like a bag,
For a brake on my soul seemed to drag,
And I knew I was not
Built for times that were hot.
Still—-with savings I never could sag.
All my cash I have easily spent.
I never could tell where it went.
I’ve not thrown it away,
On things garish and gay,
But just dribbled it out for the rent—
For the rent and the food and the light,
And the fruit I take homeward at night,
And the boots that were sold,
And the stuff for my cold,
And a packet of sweets and a kite.
It’s a fathomless myst’ry to me
Where those millions we coined now can bo.
All that metal of worth
That we dug' from the earth.
Has it vanished far over the sea?
Is there naught but the old lOU,
And the shadowy nose of the Jew, <
Left to show for the gilt
We have torn out and spilt
From the rocks where in beauty it grew?
Is there Nothing at All
But a blank, rocky wall,
And a nose and P.N.,
And a sad, seeking hen,
Wh|ch (it makes me quite sick!)
Is Fate’s fully-grown chick,
Which has come home to roost at the end of the
verse,
And the Chapter of Waste like a fully-grown curse?
And the nest we’ve provided with shame on the
floor
Is built of P.N.’s and of valueless ore.
N.S.W.
THE SPENDER.


â
■Your children need
the BEST PIANO
for their practice!
m
nrii
m
m
If you cannot call write for
Catalogue and Price List —illus-
trated and post free. Send
for one to-day. Write now.
There is no disputing this fadt: give the children a poor
piano and they never will be anything but poor players - how
can they be ? —and a poor piano cannot possibly give pleasure.
Give them a decent chance— buy them a
And they will please you with their quick progress.
We fully guarantee every piano we sell. Kacli instrument is
perfectly construdted and of imposing and artistic appearance,
rich in tone quality, and they will stand true in any climate
no matter how severe.
Visit our spacious Show Rooms and let one of our salesmen explain
the many important details that count for durability. Basy terms.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA.
“61 YEARS’ CONTINUOUS BUSINESS,”
338 George Street Sydney.
The Largest Musical Warehouse in Australia.
THE LEVIATHAN
(square deal
6W5
All Leviathan
Prices Lessened
Except one
526
The Price of our
Mail Order Special
Made-to-Measure Suit.
That we confess we cannot
reduce. It's already as keen
as possible, and the suit we
make for this money is always
the biggest of bargains.
77/6 Suits to Order
‘6716
A clear half-sovereign saved.
Grand Fabrics, Grand Tailor-
ing. Grand Value for You.
Write for Patterns and Self-measurement Forms.
THE LEVIATHAN,
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
PHOTOGRAPHY
How to Start This
Excellent Hobby.
THERE is no need to wait till you visit Sydney
before starting the most fascinating hobby of
photography. First of all send to Harringtons for
their 4'oo-page Catalogue —it contains particulars of all
the Best Makes of Cameras and Photographic Supplies.
THEN, having selected the Camera that interests you
most, and looks a likely one to suit your requirements,
write to Harringtons for a specimen picture taken
with it.
WHEN you finally decide on a Camera you are entitled
to
Harringtons’ Free
Instruction Course
either personally or by correspondence. It does not
matter whether you purchase a 5/- Camera or one at
£2O, the offer of assistance remains the same. You buy
the Camera —Harringtons give the Instruction.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N.Z.).


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. ..
: SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
; DEALERS :
Wholesale Agents ROBERT HUTTONj 321 Flinders Lane, iVLeifeoumc
The New “Scott’s"
—Hotel
is now almost completed, and .when
opened early in July will be
The Finest Hotel in
Australia.
The position is the most central and
convenient in Melbourne, and the
accommodation and cuisine perfect.
Private attendance, ’phones and hot
and cold water service in every room.
Co IMi) & Street,
MELBOURNE.
What is the Best Teauty Soap
for the Complexion ?
There is at present a great controversy
going on in the English newspapers about
the best soap to use for the complexion.
Some advocate the use of one and some
another kind, but they are all satisfied on
one or two points, and those are that for a
soap to be beneficial to the skin, must be
one without coloring matter, and without a
lot of strong, coarse, irritating perfume being
added, and also that the soap must be made
from good ingredients without a preponder-
ance of soda, which makes the skin hard.
An English soapmaker has been able to
combine all the above good qualities in a
soap, and at the same time to incorporate
some of the puritol wax, which is so much
in demand as a complexion beautifier and
protective, so that on washing with Puritol
Wax Soap there is a trace of the wax left
on the skin, which, by its continuous sooth-
ing and corrective action on the skin and
its pores, keeps it in a healthy and pure
state,.and prevents the formation of pimples
and blemishes on it.
The strikers in Sydney pony-racingdom
got the better of the first round with the Associated
Clubs last week, when the boycotted meeting at
Victoria Park staggered almost to a collapse. That
direful denouement was only averted by the arrival
of a regiment of jockeys from Melbourne. These
were smuggled off the train at a suburban station
and whirled per motor to the course. They proved
to be the straw that kept the bricks from returning
utterly to clay. But there was no glory about the
survival. Out of 171 entries only 44 starters mater-
ialised, and the public who paid to see a race-
meeting cursed loud and deep. There was an enor-
mous attendance of John Hop and of his brother
Gee Hop, and the presence of a small army of
mounted troopers was a new phase of the sport.
Heaven knows which side is in the right, and only
the other principality cares; but certain it is that
the prad-owners have not fared too badly of late.
In 1907 the prize-money doled out was £13,475.
In 1913, £41,787 was shovelled broadcast. But
apparently the head of the pony proprietor has
swollen faster even than the boodle-bag.
* * * •*
Clontaft, winner of the Flemington
National Hurdle, impressed his breeder, Connihan,
of Bairnsdale, as a stayer, by walking 60 miles when
only seven days old. At two years old he was
attacked by a boar pig, and his stifle was badly
lacerated. Next he got badly wounded by entangle-
ment in a barbwire fence. Connihan gave him to a
friend as a hack. The friend returned him saying
he was no good. Tried next as a stock-horse he
failed there, too. Meanwhile his full brother, Sure-
step, was cracked up as a wonder, yet he could not
do anything at Flemington in the Maiden Hurdle
run on the day when Clontaft snavclled the Grand
National.
* * * *
Lord Grey, the eccentric gee that
finished second for the Grand National Hurdle Race
with a remarkable run, captured a 10-furlongs flat
race on the middle day of the meeting, and nobody
was surprised save some of the books. Melbourne
punters, who regard E. A. Connolly as a rather-more-
than-human trainer and owner, took 2 to 1 about
Lord Grey when they heard that he was giving it as
a good thing. The books mostly reckoned people
fools to accept the price, and eventually they offered
half a point more. They didn’t give the grey gee a
chance on his previous performances on the flat.
But he won quite brilliantly, after being apparently
out of it. Connolly’s capacity for getting horses to
gallop faster than they did is remarkable.
His hot favorites not infrequently get beaten —Sea
Prince was a notable case in point—and punters pro-
bably lose more than they win by backing them at
s.p.; but Connolly, all the same, picks the pea often
enough to explain why he has a mob of blind fol-
lowers. The trouble is that his successes don't always
admit of easy explanation.
* * * *
It was a winter reminder of a Melbourne
Cup crowd that flocked to the G. N. Steeplechase at
Flemington last Saturday, and most of it went back
to town feelftig very sad. The minor events —three
of them races over the sticks—-were mostly in favor
of the books, whilst the Grand National brought
comfort arid joy to the bloke wif the bag. He was
out of his dread of being “struck for the double.”
Zephuron had a fair outside chance on paper, but
was not a gee that many, or any, punters had
coupled with Clontaft. As a matter of fact, the
unfashionablv-bred veteran was not expected to stay
quite as well as some of the others; yet in a race
where none- of the favorites fell, Zephuron stayed
in front all the way and made record time. Prac-
tically he won when he rushed eight or 10 lengths
ahead of his nearest follower, whilst the way-back
horses were still going steadily. A mile from home
Zepli. was half a dozen lengths in front of Anaehrion
and fully 15 lengths better than Coradjill and United
Kingdom. Cur.cap was considerably behind them.
Anaehrion tired. United Kingdom passed Coradjill,
and Guncap commenced to make headway when there
was no chance of his troubling the leaders. They
were the three strung-out followers of the slowing-
down leader. Coming down the straight United
Kingdom gained on Zephuron, but was beaten by a
length. Guncap gained on Coradjill, but didn’t
nearly catch him. The numbers went up, and only
Ikey cheered. From the public point of view the
race was an uninteresting procession, with few
changes in the order of procedure.
It was all right for Zephuron to reverse his recent
form with Coradjill, seeing that he met the favorite
on better terms; but it was all wrong for United
Kingdom to repeat the form he had shown in May
after twice disgracing himself in June. But the
inconsistency of United Kingdom was at least spread
over a period of three weeks. The Doutta Galla
Hurdle Race brought out a much more startling “re-
versal of form.” Ralmara, the winner, had run
pretty badly on the Wednesday ; and a few days earlier,
at Williamstown, he had dropped out of a race on
account of a broken blood vessel, it was said.
* » * *
Thanks to the totalisator, Queensland
Turf Club last year pocketed a profit of
£6842. _ The machine yielded £30,901 to the
club (besides paying £12,001 in Government tax),
which left only £7669 to be added to make up the
stake-money. Bookmakers who waged war on the
public in opposition to the machine contributed
£7759—a mere flea-bite compared with the sum
provided by their inanimate brother. The A.J.C.
(Sydney) and V.R.C. might gum these good points
about the machine in their hats and ponder over them.
* * * *
The luck of the game! Out of 359 gee-
gees which have started in the V.R.C. ‘Grand
National Steeplechase in the past 21 years, 146 have
failed to complete the course for some reason or
other. It is a fact not encouraging to punters,
although an “all-in” blessing for the Bag.
A biting breeze from the South Pole didn’t
prevent the usual thousands turning out to watch
Melbourne's hoofball games, the Carlton-South riot
being specially favored. The system of the Red-and-
Whites was the better, and they were faster, but
their marking was below standard, and tliev lacked
the persistence that wins. They led at half-time,
but thereafter fell away, and in the last quarter,
when one expected the strenuous, determined finish,
they merely blundered along vainly endeavoring to
stem disaster. Carlton won comfortably by 80
points to 60. Over at Victoria Park ’Wood encoun-
tered its old enemy ’Roy, and took a grip of things
from the start. But it could only get hold of the
tail of the jersey, so to speak—a mere two-point lead
—and early in the last term ’Roy strove so vigorously
that it got a goal and a four-point lead. Then the
Magpies made a last effort, and by clever passing
and a neat “mark” got the goal they wanted, and
keeping up the attack scored a three-point victory—
-37 points to ’Roy’s 34. The result of these two
games put ’Wood and Carlton within reach of ’Roy
and South, at the top of the list, and no man can
say which will lead when the round is concluded.
St. Hilda also kept its place by downing Melbourne
with ease—loo points to 48—and Geelong did like-
wise by outing the regrettable Students by 65 points
to 21. Essendon, which is with difficulty hanging on
to the tail of things, was soundly thrashed by
Richmond. The teams were about level at lemon-
time, but in the last quarter Richmond piled up
points at such a furious rate as to make the ’Dons
look like novices. If the winners had played earlier
in the season as they are doing now they would be
heading the list. As it is, their cake is dough.
Scores: Richmond 60 points, ’Don 37.
With but three more Ass. games to be played
before the semi-finals, the defeat of Port and Brigh-
ton meant the loss of their chances. The pair put
up mighty scuffles, Port going down before Bruns-
wick's superior system by only two points (50 to
’Wick’s 52), and Brighton dying harder still before
Pra’n’s tremendous efforts—4o points to 41. ’Town
was decisively pounded by ’Scray—47 points to 29
but its place in the final four is still practically
certain, the result of bogging in vigorously when the
season was young and other teams were testing new
players and trying to organise systems. North pol-
ished off Hawthorn, with 114 points to 42, and Essen-
don defeated ’Cote bv 98 to 45. It is good for a
team to win a game occasionally, but this writer
wouldn’t advise ’Cote to risk it. ' The shock might
be fatal. During the week the Law introduced itself
to another of the lamentable Port barrackers who
recently assaulted an umpire at Hawthorn, and re-
marked that the fine would be £5. But for the
fact that he was somewhat of a hero, having saved
several persons from drowning, it would have been
£lO. As to this, if football barracking turns a
brave man into a pack-hunting dingo, it is time he
tried some other entertainment.
Saylor annoyed.
Shugrue has
heard about that
wallop.
With an “All Black” team as a draw card
the N.S.W. Rugby Union found the winter of its
discontent made glorious by the presence of 15,000
spectators at the Sports Ground on Saturday. Maori -
land started with the assistance of a very stiff wind,
and, as usual, attacked savagely. But the N.S.W.
defence was splendid, and the tackling without mis-
take. So desperately did the Blues struggle that,
in spite of the high wind, at half-time the Maori-
landers had scored only nine to three. The chances
of N.S.W. looked rosy. And then the wind that had
helped the Maorilanders so well grew suddenly tired,
and came in fitful puffs only. The terrific struggle
against superior weight and the high wind had ex-
hausted the Cornstalk team. It fought gamely
enough, but its legs were trembling, and the trium-
phant All Blacks grimly set to work to stamp it
flat. The home team went quite to pieces, and when
the whistle blew Maoriland was on top with 27
points to six. That was bad enough, but had the
Maoriland crowd contained a decent goal-kicker, or
a kicker at all, it would have been worse. The side
scored eight tries during the afternoon, and failed
to convert one of them. Had the extras been added
right through it would have been 43 points—and
that would have been a smashing indeed.
To keep the game fast, whenever the ball was
kicked out a reserve one was brought in for the
line out. The Maorilanders are not the most scru-
pulous team that has visited the Ma State, and the
referee was not nearly as strict as he might have
been. Still it was a great game to watch. The
Maoriland combination was about perfect, and sug-
gested that the team had indulged in considerable
practice. The forwards were simply terrific. The
Cornstalk players were more prone to individual play,
and individualism is a thing which, in football,
means disaster. When the Maorilanders reached the
line they crossed it. Every man was in place, and
if half a dozen were blocked the splendid combina-
tion always had a seventh man ready to get across.
When the Cornstalks reached the line there was in-
sufficient support for the man who had humped the
leather to the testing, point, and thus many brave
charges were brought to nought and some' golden
opportunities lost.
* * * *
The English XIII being far away in wet,
windy Wellington (M.L.), jumping on the locals by
14 points to seven, the Sydney Rugby League Com-
petition resumed the uneven tenor of its way.
When the Competition was held up by the arrival
of the English, South Sydney headed the list with
10 points, and Eastern Suburbs, the premier club,
shared with Newtown the second rank with eight
points each. But South Sydney descended on Bal-
main in a haughty spirit, and the black-and-gold
team struggled so fiercely that South could make
only a drawn battle of it, with one miserable field
goal. On the other hand, Eastern Suburbs and New-
town beat Glebe and Western Suburbs, and so re-
duced the gap by one-lialf. Although South is still
head of the list with 13 points, both Newtown and
Eastern Suburbs are now 12 competition points each,
and another drawn game or a defeat on the part of
South will throw it behind. Glebe has eight points
and so has North Sydney; Balmain has six, Western
Suburbs four and Annandale one. The match of
the day was the riot between-Eastern- Suburbs and-
Glebe. Until 15 minutes-before time Glebe was hope-
lessly outclassed, the premier club running riot over
it and leading by 24 points to four. Then the boiler
burst, or Glebe woke up, oi* something untoward hap-
pened, for Glebe came away like forked lightning,
and scored again and again. Yet, fast as it scored,
time went faster, and, when it ran out, Eastern
Suburbs was still on top:—2B to 24. It was an
amazing finish. North Sydney defeated Annandale
by 23 points to 15, and Newtown had a runaway
victory over Western Suburbs, 24 to eight. South
Sydney was a gloomy district on Saturday night.
# * * *
The Rugby enthusiasts in Adelaide, not
worried by the awful doing the passing Englishmen
gave their scratch, team, have taken on a visiting
warship and won a match. They hope to get the
Adelaide Oval for' an international exhibition game
next month, and this- should be a big advertisement
for Rugby, which so far is almost unknown in S.A.
*** * *
The Australian XI will not have a picnic
in the S’Afriean tour. Five tests (each four days)
and 1G other matches (12 of which are set down for
three days) will be played between November 7 and
March G, so there will be little waste time in the
four months. The tour is estimated to cost £6OOO,
and guarantees from clubs cover the outlay with
£550 to spare. Three of the tests will be played
in Kruger’s country; the other two in Durban and
Capetown.
* * * *
N.S.W. Umpires’ Association, a struggling
adjunct of Ma State cricket, ekes out a precarious
existence. Last year the “white coats” handled the
modest revenue of £6 12s. fid, and, thanks to an
expenditure of onlv £3 7s. 7d., finished with the
price of a few drinks and a meat pie. The Umpires’
Association nestles under the patronage of the
N.S.W. Cricket Association; and besides providing
umpires for grade matches and inter-State cricket,
instructs junior umpires in the way they should
ump.
» * » •
At Now York Patsy Callaghan w T ent up
against “Knock-Out” Brown. Tn the ninth round the
referee disqualified him for fouling. Like a flash,
Patsy turned on the referee, and before he could be
interfered with had battered that official—and went
on doing it till the police broke through and carried
the bleeding referee to safely. Callaghan’s last scrap,
for certain.
* * * #
Young Ahearn, the English middleweight
boxer, is a shining advertisement lor cany marriage.
He is already the lawful parent of two or three,
though he is still a mere youngster. He is putting
on size rapidly, and will soon be out of the middle-
weight class; but without waiting for that he is
already prepared to take 'on any of the English
heavies. Ahearn 'was married, by the way, under
his proper name of Woodward.
Mailed particulars show that the great
international Indianapolis “500” was a magnificent
struggle between 30 of the finest drivers and fastest
cars in the world. The weather was glorious, and
the gate records were smashed by an attendance
of 125,000 people, all of them paying high prices to
watch a gamble with Death for prizes aggregating
£lO,OOO. It was. a day of disaster for the U.S.A.,
the European cars taking away over £BOOO of the
lovely swag. A crop of mechanical troubles caused
the Yankees to drop out one after another, while
not a car from effete old Europe had to retire owing
to mechanism failing. The pace was a cracker from
the pistol-shot, the cars starting with a bound and
roaring up to full speed in a few yards, compara-
tively. The first out was Chassagne, the English
representative. He didn’t drop out; he hurled or
flew out. A cover burst, his wheel broke and his
car bounded off the track and turned turtle clear
of the road—an evidence of the unfailing courtesy
of the English. At 100 miles the little Peugeot four-
cylinder car led. At 200 miles it still led, with
Thomas in the Delage thundering right on the back
tyres, and Wishart, the crack Yankee, reeling along
on the outside. Just here the Yankee cars began to
flop out in quick succession. At 250 miles Thomas
had. taken the lead, with Boillot, the favorite, seconds
behind. At 280 miles Wishart roared to the front
in the Mercer. A few minutes later Thomas came
at him again. The intrepid Yankee lifted his car to
one more effort, and broke Ills crank shaft. Then
Boillot thundered past and took the lead. At 300
miles Thomas passed him ; and just as Boillot came
with a terrific burst of speed, his back cover burst
and he rieochetted off the track, and damaged the
frame of his car so that he could not resume. After
that Thomas had no competitors. At the finish, of
the* 30 starters only 13 were called.
* * * *
For months the Yankee lightweight cham-
pion of the world, Willie Ritchie, has been dode-jn-j-
a meeting with the English boxer, Freddie Welsh!
Last week, however, Ritchie tripped over a guaran-
tee of £7000,-and Welsh caught him in the Olvm-
pia (London) -and battered him; and when the 20
ro-nds were over Eugene Corn handed Welsh the
bay leaves and the plaudits of 10,000 people, while
Ritchie took his injuries round to the treasury and
collected the big end of the purse. In 1912 Ritchie
smashed up Wolgast and got the ehamnionship of the
world. But Welsh had beaten him in California in
1911, and as soon as he won the championship was
after him again. On one occasion t.hev signed
articles; then, at the last moment. Ritchie simple
bolted. That his fear was justified the battle last
week proves. Welsh is a mightv hitter, and of h : s
110 battles no less than 2G have been won by the
knock-out. Ritchie, on the other hand, is not a
smiter of high degree, and of his 42. scraps onlv
four have been won by the indisputable argument.
But he happened to defeat the holder of the title, and
now, a year or so later, its possession has earned
him a first-class hiding and £7OOO good cash. It’s
a fine sort of balm.
Next Saturday night, at Sydney Stadium,
will be seen one of the most interesting battles of
the year. Up at East Maitland (X.S.W.) they have
discovered a fistic marvel in Les D’Arcy, a hefty
young blacksmith. lie has dog-walloped everybody
who has dared to stand up to him, and
on Saturday night he will crash up against the
grim, hard-hitting Fritz Holland, who is a really
great fighter. If this almost untutored Australian
can account for so redoubtable a boxer and fighter as
brother Holland, then he is indeed great. At the
best, it is a contest between the born fighter ami
the accomplished boxer with splendid hitting powers
and more than the usual allowance of grit and dogged
determination.
* * * *
At Brisbane the Westralian boxer, Alf
Morey, a grave-countenanced young man, vaselined
his physog., and the seconds of Daniels objected vio-
lently. Heavens knows why, though probably the
seconds don’t. Daniels rushed. .Morey hurled a
straight left. It became apparent that if Daniels
was to win he must get in close to do it, and
nobody realised it better than Morey'. So he kept a
straight left on constant sentry-go, and verily he
had his reward. For a dozen rounds it was about
equal. Then Morey’s straight lefts began to tell,
and the right swings he had been leading to the body
all through the disturbance began to exercise a
corrosive influence on the stamina of Daniels. Referee
Mick Dunn gave the only possible verdict, and Morey
collected the fat end of the purse.
* * * *
At Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night.
despite the cold blast that blew across the unroofed
area, over 7000 men watched the struggle between
the hard-fighting Australian Herbert McCoy and the
cadaverous-looking Anglo-ITebrew boxer “Kid”
Lewis. McCo.v was a picture of masculine beauty,
as he always is. Lewis was as terrible as ever. That
McCoy could baffle this accomplished glove artist,
this dancing spook, this ephemeral battler, nobody
who was thoroughly conversant with both boxers
could believe. But he did. He met the dazzling
speed with perfect timing of blows —and in modern
boxing perfect timing is the only antidote to superior
speed. It was in the close-quarters that the ’Aus-
tralian scored. ’While Lewis could keep his
he was the conqueror; but McCoy had the ring-
generalship to force the Anglo-licbrew into the place
where he wanted him, and then, getting close, lie
let fly the battery that won the night. The light,
aery attack of Lewis is most deceptive, lie merely
pokes his glove forward, and, to the onlooker, it
seems to have no force behind it, but in reality every
ounce of the man’s weight is crowded on to the
butt end. McCoy proved it to his sorrow when in
the 15th it sent him down for two. He sprang up
and tried to rush his will-o’-the-wisp opponent, but
that hovering jim-jam danced adroitly out of range,
and won the round easily. He was picturesquely
horrible to watch. And although McCoy rightly
received the verdict, there was no great margin of
points between them.
* * * *
Milburn Saylor and Joe Shugrue drew a
crowded house to the Stadium on Saturday night
and supplied it with one of the most sustained and
spectacular combats ever seen in Sydney. It was a
splendid scrap to watch, and a detailed account of
it would fill a page. At 2 p.in. Saylor weighed
9st. Bjib., and Shugrue 9st. 71b. But Saylor had
the advantage of height and reach, and beside him
Shugrue looked quite a little chap. They were both
in splendid fettle. Only young men, in the very
pink of condition could have put up the sustained
struggle they did for those awful 20 rounds. The
veriest wowser that ever mouthed a platitude would
have thought twice before he said a word against
a game which made men capable of such a splendid
exhibition of vim and stamina.
With the exception of a disqualification in Brisbane
for disobeying the referee, and a defeat in Melbourne
by Ivay on points, Saylor had flattened out everyone
who had stood against him in Australia. In Sydney
he had never been beaten, and some mighty men had
fallen to him. The crowd knows that when
it goes ’to see him it is going to see a puncli-
ing-match or a dog-walloping— and that is the sort
of thing the fight fan revels in. Also the crowd
knew that this time the all-conquering Saylor was
up against the toughest problem he had struck in
Australia, a 19-year-old boy who was almost as fast
as Lewis, and could hit three times harder; so it
went down in masses and was glad. And it was
not disappointed. Shugrue attacked with the fury
of'a hungry lion, and Saylor clinched him and tried
to swing him into position to deliver the occipital
blow. But Shugrue hit him twice on the nose
and once in the bingev as Saylor swung him round,
and Saylor let go. Shugrue immediately bounded in
once more and banged him again, and, as Saylor
slung elephant-killers round, danced lightly out of
range. As the gong went Saylor walked to his
corner with the disquieting knowledge that in long-
range fighting he had no chance with this tiger-
whelp. His game was to get to close quarters and
play the trick that had so often met with suc-
cess in the same rin" —hold with his left glove and
use the right like a sledgehammer to the back of the
neck. But the bundle of muscle and brain he was
fighting bent with his occipital blows, and then,
rebounding, so to speak, banged Saylor himself on
the back of the neck. Saylor didn’t like it. He
contrived to make the over-willing Shugrue lead, and
tried to meet him with well-timed, terrific counters.
But Shugrue was too quick. His guard seemed
invincible, and it was Saylor who reeled from the
impact as often as not. Thereafter Saylor went in
to rough his way to victory. But the elusive
Shugrue was not to be roughed. Once Savior caught
him on the jaw as he ducked, and he twirled round
and shot across the ring, to be brought up only hv
the ropes. Saylor sailed after him to finish the
iob, but met a shower of blows that compelled him
to retreat. Another time he rushed Shugrue on to
the rones with his left. As Shugrue struck the top
rope his feet flew up, and he looked as though he
would fly over the rope and fall on Speaker Meagher.
Savior whirled up his mighty right to smite —and
balanced on the rope, Shugrue smashed him on the
nose with his right and the mouth with his left, and
beat him off as the referee seized him. The last
round was cyclonic. Saylor knew a knock-out was
Ids only chance of victory, and he went in to do or
die. He roughed and held and hit, and referee
Hamid Baker "-as kent busier than ever tearing them
apart. At last he warned Savior, who was
getting bevond all bounds. With nine seconds
to go Savior all but outed Shugrue, but
that wild-cat sprang up and came at him
again, and the gong went in the midst
of the wildest whirlwind ever seen in that ring
of many stirring memories. The decision in favor of
Shugrue was received with deafening cheers. It was
a great mil].


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A SURE WINNER!
:>
A skilful boxer has a great advantage over h:s
opponent. ~ ,
Because he applies his strength scientifica }
the right thing at the right moment—takes good
care to reserve his powers, sees that his opponents
blows lash the air or land on his gloves.
How unfortunate it’d be for you to engage a
skilful Boxer. Why, you’d be in doubt about a man
of . your own weight and skill. Surely, you ought
to cease being a target for a good Boxer.
Learn to be a skilful Boxer. There’s no reason
for you to remain “crude.” I can teach you in
your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible—every-
thing is as plain as plain can be. The instruction
is simple and efficient. It will teach you to be a
hard-hitting boxer, with an excellent defence. You
will be taught how to compel your adversary to
leave openings. You’ll cultivate the habit of keep-
in" vourself “coveted’ at all times.
” ' - 'J-'
Here is what one pupil reported:—
“I had a spar with a chap here the other night. * w w“iw~w»s”not tor long ”
like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but t a Tontcrfiehl 1 NS AY.
Me lost his headpiece, and went for me
You’re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you
etc. ? Ask for a copy o f my interesting booklet,
threepence in stamps foi postage.
better write for further particulars as regards fees,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly send
REG. L.(“Snowy”) BAKER,
339 BELMONT BUILDINGS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
DO YOU
PREFER A
MILD CIGAR?
If so, let me send yon
a box of my famous
LaNova
Dutch Cigars
and, should they not
suit your taste, you
can return them, and
I will only charge you
for the cigars smoked.
This rule applies to ail
cigars purchased from
me.
The LA NOVA is an
excellent smoke, and a
great favorite with
many of my customers.
Send to-day for a box.
30/- per 100.
Packed in boxes of 25;
7/6.
Postage on 25 — 1
N.S.W., Gd.; Inter-
State, Bd.
Postage on 300 —-
N.S.W.. 1/3; Inter-
state, 2/2. '
Write for a Free Copy of
my Illustrated Catalog.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Actual Size
OXO-
-
HEND
IGCQ
~ 'i
7~h.fi. Twin, Free-engine,
3 - inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog' D.
“SHELL” again
in the
Petrol Consumption Test
held on 30/5/’l4 from
Sydney to Katoomba.
FIRST FOUR PLACES
secured on
“SHELL”
BENZINE.
HOTELKEEPERS! HOTELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING!
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES! »
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
newer instantly supplies the required drink.
VV rite tor descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
3
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S A. L E> S held at frequent
intervals by
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
THE CORRECT FOOTWEAR
for well-dressed men is the RIGNEY Shoe.
It harmonises with the rest of his anpear-
ance, and adds the finishing touch to the
faultlessly attired. There’s a shape and a
style in a RIGNEY Shoe to fit in with your
ideal.
The Boot shown is a. Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A High-grade,
Made-to-order style.
Price - - 27/6.
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf,
25/- and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
ã
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Concerning a hustler :
S. P. Hyatt, the novelist whose death in London
the cable chronicled the other day, was an energetic
\ustralian who was on intimate terms with most
parts of this old globe, and had crammed more
than his share of adventure into his short 37 years
of life As a youngster he started toil on a N.S.W .
sheep run. Then lie hit out for Matabeleland, and,
at 22, was the largest trader with the natives in
Eastern Mashonaland. The Portuguese handed him
the iob of exploring the central portion of Mozam-
bique. On returning to Mashonaland he found that
his trading business had been ruined. So he moved
on to the Philippines and lent the harassed Yanks
a hand at subduing Black Brother. In 1905 he wan-
dered to England and started to capitalise his many
adventures by' turning novelist. He had a grim
struggle for a time, but when he managed to get
out his first novel, “Marcus Hay,” it was an instant
success. After that he quickly won a place among
the most popular novelists of the day.
A humiliating item in the interstate Com-
mission’s inquiry into tariff matters was the
evidence given by F. W. Hughes, wool-top
manufacturer, who asked the Commission to
consider the desirability of increasing the
bounty paid on “tops.” Incidentally lie
alleged that only 5 per cent, of his output
was absorbed by the Australian demand;
for the balance Japan is Australia’s best
customer. The average Australian would
boil over if anybody told him he was the
Jap’s inferior; yet the collective Australian,
as long as he is merely a producer of the
raw material to enable the brown man to
carry through the higher branches of indus-
try, is an inferior. When the Australian
realises that, he may lie keener about en-
couraging Australian industry than he seems
to be at present.
J
f
TtfSsK 'Hi
I
ca
&
■ft;
■ ■ ',
<0
- 8
l
Ji;j
BAD ROADS
ctnci. <*•
COST of MOTORING
You know what an influence
bad roads have on the running
cost of a Car, particularly as
regards tyre upkeep. You can*
not alter the road conditions,
but you can reduce your tyre
bill very considerably by using
DUNLOP
TYRES
which are specially constructed
to withstand the rough roads
in this country. On the fine
European roads poor quality
tyres may give a satisfactory
mileage, but not in this country.
Here you must have ample ,
strength and durability in your
tyres if they are to give a big
mileage and keep down runn-
ing cost of your Car, and that’s
why it pays to use “ Dunlops,”
the tyres that consistently give
' such great wear on our roads.
\lf you don’t use “ Dunlops”—try them!
\ OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
* * *
i DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Coaching on Brighton Road.
/V y
"" sMJMI
~ 'k x )Lp/f -Y&J K: ~wAs%
V,K ie.) rr%&?*?/■',/ ,:•«/ A <'// / A;> SJL%O£$
\u<A r y?MW/ X/x T//A" <?!?/&>
■" <" /fA/ >■ .- S// / //:• ■* / /
WmTiM. \ wMmm
L ! WM//.M 1 '&s/;
'<d*jU</Z :/Ar
yyF.
; s
XL/: X/4X
X / /
,• ■<
&•//%/. V'/X ZJ.Z - •€/
y?/y&:X A jXi/J-/ V*
1
V
v/fo
N
f ,<
foh
\
’ t
/■\-/.
jBSp**'V - v / A ! T vy ’"
V / g
.Ac,/ ■>, A/’■>' y-2 : Z<~ JL-4
yyM r >X:yy&XXL4
iggrx /
,V ,t / f.~-, *.■■ S‘- ‘ fL'sdNP’
- sZIs&BT LW-
>-- : X *-•1
r\
idKS
AX'T A
V//S&S
%xpmx
YSA/.f.f ■<■'
-*W
«■
5A
l
5 *
z* «*a fj/jr i'yjyf" /'jCyy \ y ' '
jjfgay ££ jF -■
4£&‘jsO'.?jir
rimt&i
WA
*&
$k -f
Wt ‘S
II If
c!k
. --A
ar>
1 1 ;—-
ioif "ROYAL'
J t ‘(3 ir 4"*>~r''"
=®|
”;v
%
—*■
7 V;
■dkt'tA''' 'Rf
c.
A/ A
f
''W
SSaK®
C v ?
»5
■l(wi Vj^«
///
/
L 1 f|l|
afi
i i r.y tA
I 1
;h ji ilia
fl sw
..V /■:>
V'% V *
Sb
nil
■ \
111
k mm
; V-
-u>'
; ' I 1
' k hMI
■y ,v
X !
t
) si
\ •A \f
j /»/ •&
7- f c!
i. U m
||f fl
i ■ % w
' r '
si- xbJfflkmW-
\
\ \
:
i? ;
’-•V*\v
iyo^j
till
'. 1 J ' I
WECflaSu§gg^
>s£rs
il
-^*-N
,V/
OM*
6
/«- ;?{ • ■•.,
.- M , if>
Wf.
\ (V
h
it-1 i
M§
w
'% f* \
■ y T X
m
[\
(&
&
/
wSri
M
J?3t
• 'X-Ht&i
W
tyxo
ii».
Xl'
s
m
w>
fM
.•fe'fS
mm
W/u
r\f-
j ■x.-y . .•
Wmk
t
r/'-'>*
fe?"
I
AX.
A?,
'^Ayiptr
i?,?;
At*
&?
4 / wmm
/a'c
3B
%&a&#Sd
%v» :
e&s
n
k I
\
S&-T
V V#
ga
fe4
/ •.
?A!
US'
V SVC
S ’
MS
vfeC?
is£os
m
K<f>
'A ATA
ossJS
- -''‘x
SSr*-> '44^44.
AfsSa
5g
V^'
/ <5 jsw&Ka<?V3F*«.
£~ I z2Xx'<& •
» 'N.
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Does a little
Coaching too.
H ere he steers
A merry load
Down the lovely
English road.
Cracking whip
And jingling bit
Who would not
In his place sit,
And to Brighton
Trot away,
There to spend
A “COBRA” day


Colds and
influenza
can be prevented by keeping
the body well nourished with
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Anyone
who is susceptible to chills,
coughs, colds or who suf-
fers from weakness, wasting
and poor health cannot
do better than take a course
of SCOTT’S Emulsion now,
and in this way gain the
health and strength that re-
sist and overcome weakness
and disease. You will avoid
worry and save time and
money, by insisting on genuine
fk
1874
*l6l
TRADE
MARK
scons
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
LACTOBACILLIN E.
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fermen-
tative affections of the alimentary canal. Lactobacil-
line pits the vigorous lactic ferment against the
less resistant organisms of decomposition, with the
result that the latter are immediately destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of.
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of
perfect health. It is of special value in all affec-
tions of the digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites,
intestinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc. Every
cylinder of tablets bears the words:
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Ferment
Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,’’ with-
out which none are genuine. Lactobacilline is sold
in boxes containing eight cylinders of Tablets—price,
ss. 6d. —and can be ordered through any chemist, or
obtained direct from the Dep6t Societe le Ferment,
Australasia Chambers, 406-14 Queen St., Brisbane, or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney;
Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne; Eller-
shaw’s Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen St., Auckland; from where all
information can be obtained.
3
Wc«EN-NAMES
W 1 weave your name
or initials in Turkey
Red Lettering, in any one
of several styles, on Fine
Cambric Tape. This gives
a simple, permanent and
most satisfactory method o[.
marking linen and clothing.
NEVER WEAR OFF
NEVER FADE
NEVER WASH OUT
Obtainable all Drapers
and Clothiers.
Ask for CASH’S ■
the name’s on the box.
©
Ymr hhme
Write ior Samples to
J. & J. Cash Ltd.
246-250 Flinders Lane.
Melbourne.
ä
â
å
I
&
m
10
9
BIG
BEN
8
7
5
6
m
He’s Big All Over
And Good All Through
Big Ben is built [or endless service.
He has no “off-days, ’’ no shut-downs.
His four years of existence have been
one long record of on-the-dot accur-
acy. 20,000 jewellers say that he
does more efficient work for less pay
than any other clock alive.
A Big Ben battalion, over 3,000
strong, leaves La Salle, Illinois, every
day. Their sparkling triple nickel-
plated coats of implement steel; their
dominating seven-inch height; their
big, bold, black, easy-to-read figures
and hands; their big, easy-to-wind
keys —all make Big Ben the world’s
master clock.
In return for one little drop of oil,
he’ll work for you a full year. From
“Boots on” to “Lights out” —365
times —he’ll guarantee to tell you the
time o’ day with on-the-dot accuracy.
He’ll guarantee to get you up either
of TWO WAYS —with one long,
steady, five-minute ring if you need a
good big call, or on the instalment
plan , with short rings one-half minute
apart for ten minutes, so you’ll wake
up gradually , and he’ll stop short in
the middle of a tap during either
call if you want to shut him off.
Big Ben is a mighty pleasant look-
ing fellow. His big, open, honest face
and his gentle tick-tick have earned
him a place in thousands of parlors.
He wins friends everywhere.
Big Ben is made in La Salle, Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. His price is 12/6,
postage 1/- extra. If you cannot find him in
your town, send a money order to his makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt Street,
Sydney. They will have one mailed to
you at once by the nearest jeweller. If you
have him oiled every other year there is no
telling how long he will last,
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
w HORROCKSES
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS
1
Last month, on leaving ' Brisbane, going
north, the Chinese, crew of the ship Aiden-
harri was mustared as usual by the Customs
tiffieei ; and, although the true
answered the roll call, he ni
of them had aged strangely ej
arrival. Notwithstanding i‘
able protests that the oha
Enoggera water and the det
ence of picture shows, th
smelt
stranger
who,
land,
Pagans
China.
ceedings
Hon
two
Common
The'
quaint
an ene,
plan i
put, hi
had t
other t
throngs
present,
said they
they objec
British p.
stupids ca
been com
try’s Defi
taxes; a#l
that wa
when
•he d
pare to. d
that they d
Crinciple of
ow, the wor
tempt the ki
himself, but
other kid to
“Don Q.”:
happy famil
Denhaml having pushed his Liquor Bill a
second time through the Assembly, now finds
himself confronted by the Bung party in tin-
is not otilv potent in the
by virtue of direct repre-
o in the fact Ihat two lead
barrack for Beer (Bung
d each their
"o opinions
mber
ol
rat
mVold-time
lesi rolls of hi
Lu-banMgi^^
H>g of
■s
dn t
1 ts
acgfWor. the
the lligldantj
rily remarkeo
is travels seen
k n rough tlieir
m, to speak
to barbar-
>e Highland
shall pro-
ous Soot
[i to the
r.a-lacu
", while
to th*
ty certain
story about town is- mar
ter Appel is the square peg in a round
pr the round hole in a square lace, or
_ ivernment
g ttlDe.ham.
htwhad time
upwind sold
.ualVadvun
thiii
hTlSlfthropic.
lin to believ
laying <5 pe.
ham didn’t
jtbe request,
lliour "land
rt the feel-
supporters.
Miss AJackTHTosh. yilbonslamTs champion
lady tennis plaver. and daughter of Donald
Mackintosh. M.L.A.. was married in Pitn*-
DUPLEX
BRACES
For Men of Action
They're Great
Alt all Stores. 2'
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE
for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
Bast Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, S/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
Kriischen
Salts
Now sold by Chemists throughout tue
Wholesale importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 387, ->lareno Street, SYDNEY■
“Bunty Pulls the Strings” bids fair to become
the national drama of Scotland, and to displace
“Rob Roy,” as that piece had displaced Rev. David
Home’s “Douglas.” It is extremely difficult for mod-
ern taste to discover in what the charm of Doug-
las” consisted. Every schoolboy used to spout My
Name is Norval,” a fine speech. There have been
heaps of plays on Wallace and Robert Bruce, but
none of them have struck the popularity of the
three above mentioned.
“L.H.P.”: “The School for Scandal’’ possesses
great wit, but the wit of Congreve is finer, and wei e
it not for the screen scene, which is probably the
finest situation in the whole range of comedy, the
work would be little more than a clever plaguary
upon “Tom Jones’’ and Wycherley’s “Plain Dealer.
Galt, in his “Lives of the Players,” relates how a
Miss Richardson sent in a play to Sheridan when
manager of Drury Lane. It was never returned, the
lady being advised to study music. Miss Richardson
was present at the premiere of “The School lor
Scandal,” and the curtain was not long up before
she recognised her play. She created a scene and
fainted, and was carried out of the theatre. Subse-
quently she fell ill and died of misery.
The recent performance of “Silver King,” with
an “all star” cast, in aid of King George’s pension
fund for actresses and actors, was an interesting
event apart from the screaming of suffragettes self-
chained to sundry parts of the auditorium. H. 15.
Irving, in the name part, broke away from tradition
by wearing a soft, up-to-date felt hat, a frock coat,
and short grey hair. It was the first appearance of
anybody as a Wilfred Denver who had repented of
his past without neglecting to get his hair cut.
Gerald Du Maurier played a quiet cockney Corkett,
and Beerbohm Tree spread himself upon the very
small character of Gaffer Pottle. George Alexander
was the railway ticket-inspector, Charles Hawtrey the
tipsy passenger who says “Kindly conduct me to a
—hie —third-class smoking carriage,” and Carlotta
Addison the matron whose luggage includes every-
thing but the kitchen fender and the mangle. Lillah
McCarthy and Marie Liihr figured as Nellie Denver
and Mrs. Spider. Ambrose Manning played Father
Christmas, and Willard renewed his youth in his
original character of the Spider, which is 32 years
old. The performance yielded £1750 profit.
“Masetto”: “0.K.” (B. 25/6/’l4) refers to the
alleged persistent understating of Ellen Terry’s age,
but gives no evidence to support his case. A pic-
ture taken at that time of the lady’s first appearance
(1856) shows her in the part of Mamillius in “The
Winter’s Tale” ; she is standing alongside Charles
Kean, and seems to be a mere child —years short of
the 14 or so she would have to be if she were in the
70’s now. As regards the Times’s notice in ’63, I
can see nothing remarkable in her playing the ingenue
parts when we consider her precocious talent. Why,
she married G. F. Watts, the artist, when she was
16 ! By the way, the paysheet for May 2, 1856, gives
Ellen’s salary as 15s. per week. The Keans got £3O
each, and J. F. Cathcart (who accompanied them to
Australia) had £4.
“Ami”: Eloise Juno, now resident in Melbourne,
went on to the stage at the Edinburgh Theatre, when
Irving was a “walking gentleman” there in the posi-
tion formerly held by Barry Sullivan. She had to
work two years for nothing. Twenty-five shillings a
week were reckoned fair pay for a leading juvenile,
and thirty were paradise. After two years’ probation,
Eloise got only half a sovereign. She obtained her
first round of applause as Rose Maylie in “Oliver
Twist,” with Toole as the Artful Dodger. After-
wards she was at Leicester and Dundee, where she
first acted with Brooke—Emilia to his Othello. She
went with her mother to join her brother in Maori-
land. But Maoriland was not propitious ; so, though
Eloise was supposed to have abandoned the stage, she
had to go back. Her first engagement was with
manager Clarence Holt, Bland’s father, in Dunedin,
Jefferson being the star. She undertook to act six
nig\hts for nothing, and began as Ophelia to Holt’s
Hamlet. Marion Dunn, afterwards Mrs. Marcus Clarke,
was Osric. Eloise caught on, and likewise after-
wards with “The Bonnie Fishwife.” To her amaze-
ment Holt gave her £lO for the week, when she had
thought it barely possible he might hand oyer 10s,
She became popular in Maoriland, came to Australia
in 1867, and was for the next 20 years the best
woman in Scotch character parts hereabouts.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Numurkah (Vic.) is a sorry
show town for the visiting barnstormer, but it has
its Williamson, nevertheless. Parson Williamson (C.
of E.) keeps a local company in harness, and thusfar
has produced a pantomime, “Cinderella” (in which
the local barber collaborated in the construction of
the golden coach, and helped the parson to white-
wash a couple of brown ponies), and a melodrama,
“British Born,” in which the full strength of the
local cadets was engaged to save the flag. There
were so many cadets striving for glory that the
hero was pushed over the footlights and made a dis-
astrous dent in the drum.
“Kapai”: The memory of her first appearance in
Auckland (M.L.) will remain in Ellen Terry’s mem-
ory as one of the nightmares of her career. The
Town Hall stage is not adapted for dramatic recitals,
and nobody had bothered to have the lights suffi-
ciently adjusted to assist the performance at all,
with the unhappy result that when Ellen Terry
left her table for a moment, strange, uncanny shadows
came forth from odd corners and seemed to over-
whelm her. As she was entirely dependent on the
text, an'd was suffering from the exhaustion of a
rough trip across the Tasman Sea, her nerves gave
way beneath the strain until her distress was pain-
fully apparent to the sympathetic audience, who
badly wanted to tell her to sit down and never mind
the rest of the programme. Finally, when she had
commented on the dreadful lighting, and paused in
panic because she imagined herself walking into the
audience, somebody produced another light, and she
struggled through. And the semi-hysterical audience
mopped its collective brow and said someone had
mismanaged disgracefully.
“L.M.P.”: During the past quarter of a century
Sydney has witnessed four productions of “The Forty
Thieves.” The first was “the opera extravaganza” at
the Criterion Theatre in the late ’Bo’s, with Robert
Brough (Ali Baba) ; Fanny Robina (Ganem), whose
song, “You take a little chopper, and you chop,
chop, chop,” is still heard around Sydney; Teddy
Royce (Hassarac) ; Florence Harcourt (Abdallah) ;
Charles Brown (at present playing Cogia Baba) ;
E. Manning (Cassim) ; and Emma Temple as Morgi-
ana. Willie Ward, as a slave, had a wonderful dance
in the cave scene, and the version, which was in
three acts and six scenes, was from the pen of
Robert Reece, a prolific writer of Gaiety Theatre
burlesque. In 1891-92 Jessie Lonnen’s father,
Teddy Lonnen, played Ali Baba at the Royal, under
the Firm’s auspices, with ballets by Duvalli and
Frank Emery as stage manager. Arthur Adams, of
The Bulletin, was guilty of the 1898-99 version at
the old Her Majesty’s. Billy Hassen was the
donkey (a part he plays in the present panto) ;
Charles M. Berkley (now on the AVilliamson business
staff) was Ali Baba; Johnny Coleman was Cogia;
Pattie Brown was Ganem; Fred Cambourne was
Cassim; Jennie Opie was Abdallah; Carrie Moore
was Morgiana; and Miss Frances Adler (now
Madame Alda of the New York Metropolitan Opera
House) was in the cast. This version was in three
acts and 10 scenes, plus patriotic tableaux from
Goatcher’s magic brush. Jimmy B. Watson was
“producer,” albeit that new-fangled title was not
invented in these days.
“Oddsblood”: I cannot be shaken in my conviction
that the Backblocks goat is immortal. It is the duty
of the billposter to use the very best flour for making
the very best paste to put up the very latest bills;
but no sooner has the bill gone up than the hungry
goat eats it down with the vehemence of a commercial
traveller at a railway-refreshment counter. Peering
through the billposter’s window at night I have ob-
served him mixing strange potions and mystic pow-
ders. I have wormed out of him that he has put
powdered strychnine and cyanide and prussic acid in
the paste without getting more than a shudder out of
the goat. He is now, he says, in pursuit of a really
dangerous poison; he is sick, he tells me, of Barn-
stormer arriving to find his literature eaten off the
fence and blaming him instead of the goat.


mn in
■. ■ ■ &
-r- ,
t : I ! ffisO'SCHASffi
HR
Unchangeable Records
Prevent Mistakes.
The National Cash Register enforces correct records
because it makes unchangeable records. The assistant will
be careful if the records he makes cannot be changed.
Carefulness and accuracy in handling your money will
increase your profits.
National Cash Registers have stopped losses and increased
the profits of more than a million and a quarter shopkeepers
throughout the world, because they enforce correct records.
There is a kind and size of National Cash Register for every
kind and size of business. Write for information about the
size and kind for you.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE —ll9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the Principal Cities.
“THE MOTOR WITHOUT A VICE.”
You are not getting the Best
Results if you are not using
A.E.G. ELECTRIC MOTORS
They are rugged and reliable. Probably
not so low in first cost as some others,
but with them first cost is last cost.
They do not add to their cost by
expensive shutdowns of your plant.
SDPPLIED TO SYDNEY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
UNDER CONTRACT.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE 8714.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
40-42 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
172-
6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
You might as well expect
a troop of Boy Scouts to
capture Gibraltar as to
an ordinary dentrifice to
successfully combat the
ravages of “ Acid Mouth ”
upon the teeth.
There’s as much difference
between any ordinary den-
trifice and Pebeco Tooth
Paste as there is between
a flintlook musket of 1778
and a present-day machine-
gun.
P6BCCO
TOOTH PASTE
Ordinary Dentifrices clean,
whiten and polish teeth. Here
their work stops —for this is
all they were ever intended
to do. Pebeco Tooth Paste
was made to do what no other
known dentrifrice has ever
done overcome “Acid
Mouth “—that arch-enemy of
the teeth because it is the
direct cause of 95 per cent, of
all tooth decay.
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid Mouth.”
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
I®
The Ideal Travelling Rug
for Service is the . . .
MOSGIEL
RUG
It is so extremely cosy,
so fleecy and full of
warmth and so durable.
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
[3
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped—Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
The World’s Best
Beautifier —
VELVEETA SNOW
(NON=GREASY).
Every lady should give this remarkable
beautifier a fair trial—the result will
certainly please her.
2/6 pot,
post free.
Obtainable only from
J. M. WILKES g CO.,
Alphinglon, Vic., Aust. [1
ā
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
ă
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
Business, Bobbery, etc
“Battler": Isn’t it time something was done to
protect the out-o’-work quilldriver from the snares
of the billet-monger? The procedure of this harpy
is like this. First, he obtains a P.O. box, in- order
to hide himself in the darkness in which he in-
variably works. Then he rents a small upper room
in an obscure set of offices, and hangs out a sign
inscribed with an impressive title —“Continental and
Overseas Corporation,” or something like that. If
he is very financial, he invests in a second-hand type-
writer and an office boy. or preferably a “junior
typiste” (she is less likely to tumble to the game),
and has the telephone laid on. Then he inserts an
advt. for a company secretary or an accountant or
a business manager for the corporation. The out-o’-
works (and some of the in-works, too) respond in
hundreds. To each and every flathead who has been
“hooked” a cunningly worded epistle is despatched,
stating that the recipient has been selected on
account of some special qualification or other ; but
before he can be finally appointed to such a respon-
sible position it is necessary for him to say how
much he is prepared to invest in the business by
way of security. And here the mugs fall in. The
one who offers most is duly placed in charge of the
table, chairs- and inkpot in the office, and the harpv
gently fades away, generally leaving the office rent
a week or two in arrear. When the billet-mongering
biz is getting a bit overdone, the harpy starts out
on the partnership racket, offering a “good, solid
weekly return to a man of energy and ability who
is possessed of a little capital.” Surely there is
work here for the police, the more so since these
swindlers have become so bold that the rawest pro-
bationers could trap them.
* * * *
"Inchiquin”: South Aus. too is talking about the
bulk handling of wheat. The grain merchants would
welcome the change, but the average farmer has no
enthusiasm for it. With bulk handling his present
amiable custom of mixing cracked and shrivelled and
dirty wheat with good would be settled —and the
average farmer doesn't like that. He doesn't recog-
nise that the merchant would gladly pay Id. or
Hd. per bushel more for good wheat than for a
mixed sample. With the bags it is quite easy to run
the “screenings”—that is, the small, cracked and
dirty wheat—in with the good, and not bo discovered.
During the season a wheat yard is about as busy a
spot as you could find, and an agent cannot, possibly
sample every bag. Those he does sample he samples
in one spot only. So to protect themselves the mer-
chants pay one price; and the farmer who brings
in a sample going (say) 661 b. to the bushel gets
the same as the rascal who brings in a 621 b. sample,
though the 661 b. sample is worth probably 3d. per
bushel more. With bags averaging 7s. per'dozen the
farmer who so cleverly rips in cracked and shriv-
elled wheat gains mighty little, as the poor stuff
weighs light and helps to use up bags. ' Bulk
handling would be the finest thing on earth for the
farmer—but he won’t believe it. At any rate, the
average S. Australian variety won’t.
* * * *
“Marloo”: The Brisbane merchants kicked up the
Devil s own row when Parliament passed a law to
prohibit the sale of boots witli soles composed largely
of brown paper instead of the genuine article, anil
obtained special license to continue the swindle,
because merchants of other States would work it, any-
how, per medium of the Parcels Post. However, thev
don’t mind “working a ready” to the detriment of
then; brethren in other States themselves. Since the
passing of the N. S. Wales Pure Foods Act many of
the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) storekeepers have been
fined for trading off goods (pickles, sauce, pepper,
vinegar, soap, etc.) which were not up to the require-
ments of the Act. These goods were in all cases
obtained from Brisbane warehouses, and the travellers
gave verbal guarantee that they complied with the
N.S.W.P.F. Act. During the early part of June
three grocers of Tweed Heads (N.S.W.) were fined £2
and costs for each offence when found guilty of sell-
ing adulterated goods (cordials, pickles, vinegar and
preserves), procured from the same source. To
aggravate matters, the merchants, when re-imburse-
ment was sought, coldly repudiated the guarantee of
their travellers.
* * * *
No wonder the Fiji banana crowds the Queensland
sausage-fruit out of the Australian market. When
the Commonwealth Parliamentary Fruit Commission
was at its job it looked first at the loading and unload-
ing of _ Queensland boats, and then at the Levuka,
which is on the Fiji run. The Commissioners found
that the Queensland fruit, picked green in bunches,
was dumped into holds by slings and parachutes, and
Piled 20 bunches deep. The whole pot was then
battened down, and afterwards the heat not only
ripened but cooked the fruit. The wastage and deteri-
oration are enormous. On the other hand, on the
Levuka, the Commissioners found racks for storing
the bunches, with a current of air to equalise the
temperature. The Queensland banana, though not so
showy as the Fijian “Gros michel,” is usually the
much more delicious “Cavendish”; but the difference
in handling often turns the superior “Cavendish” into
a battered vegetable fit only for the barrow-man to
fill up the bottom of the bag with. Years ago Elders,
Fvffe and Co., who control the banana trade between
the best Indies and Bull's Kingdom, introduced racked
vessels, into which the fruit is loaded on endless belts,
with provision for maintaining the right temperature;
but the Queensland trade is as primitive as ever it
was, and is almost suffocated under masses of ill-
treatment. Mostly the shipowners are responsible,
though the men who actually handle the stuff for-
merly got into the habit of mishandling it on the
ground that it was “ Chinaman's stuff” —which
it no doubt used to be, but isn’t now, to any over-
whelming extent, and needn’t be to any extent at all
if the important trade were properly catered for.
* * * *
Moan a’: b irelcss continues to perform amazing
stunts. A few weeks ago an operator at a Marconi
station in Boston (U.S.A.) picked up a short message
from another Marconi man on the mail steamer Mon-
golian, and curiosity prompted him to ask the float-
ing operator the vessel's position. “Two hundred
miles east of Nagasaki, Japan,” was the replv, and
the Boston man nearly dropped dead. Experts con-
sider this a freak message that chanced to fall on
remarkably favorable atmospheric conditions ; but all
the same it shows the staggering possibilities of the
singing spark.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: A cable tells us of a demand for legis-
lation to control the English Public Trustee office.
It has £120,000,000 worth of business investments,
and may have £500,000,000 in 20 vears. The
Comptroller is not responsible to any Minister, but
only reports to the Lord Chancellor. He has
£8,250,000 in railway shares—rather ticklish stock
—and is thus a potentate in railway management
sub rosa. The business of this Government office is
to act as executor or trustee under wills or settle-
ments, a job undertaken in Australia chiefly by
private persons and companies, although the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth Bank might profit-
ably be followed by such a Trust. In England the
office is new, and the most prodigious success of any
recent Government financial stroke. Only since 1910
has it been remunerative ; but the profit balance is
alreadj' considerable. On the last figures the assets
were £23,835 over the liabilities.
Vic. M.L.A. Hannah’s Brick Commission threw in
its report the other day, and discursively remarked
that there is a Brick Combine, but that its operations
have become less obstructive of late; that notwith-
standing increases In wages the brick companies are
still making profits of from 15 per cent, to 25 per
cent, on their paid-up capital; and that undeveloped
clay deposits of great value and extent exist near
Melbourne. To ascertain these somewhat negligible
facts the Commission took several costly months.
When are Royal Commissions to be brought under
the Noxious Drugs Act, anyhow?


It is to your Interest to use UP-TO-DATE
and INEXPENSIVE
Electric Motors
for driving all Kinds of machinery, and they are
handy, safe, reliable, serviceable and economical.
->i
They can be started quickly by simply closing
a switch —can be fixed for working on the floor,
wall or ceiling —consist of few paits, and lequne
no skilled attention. Ihe many advantages of the
ELECTRIC MOTOR DRIVE deserve your
serious attention.
Bp to 100-H.P. Motors kept itv Stock.
You can always rely on your
when you use
machine drive
GENERAL ELEGTRIC CO. (U.S.A.) ELECTRIC MOTORS.
We have an Illustrated Booklet which we shall be pleased to send to enquirers.
Write to any of these offices
PERTH, W.A. —Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street. ... c ... streets
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Australian General Electric Co., Queen and L
BRISBANE, Q. -Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd., Wellington and Christchurch.
NEW ZEALAND—Naticnal Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Dunedin,
i^,r-cet -Sydney, '" Cor.Queen gLittle Collinsats-Melbcmrnel
ą
THE LAST WORD
IN STEAM ENGINES IS UNQUESTIONABLY
MARSHAL
which have demonstrated their superiority in every part of the Globe, and in every class of work, over
A
'vamift
QUALITY and Positive RELIABILITY
are MARSHALL’S Watchwords
Ask any of the hundreds of satisfied users of MARSHALLS PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTIONS, OIL TRACTORS, BOILERS, etc., throughout New South Wales,
what they thjnk about their purchase, and you will be quite convinced.
“Can't be beat," “Best on earth," “Working constantly for 50 years without a hitch,"
“Worth their weight in gold," “Not a moment's lost time" these are a sample
of the remarks we hear every day throughout the year.
Don’t be persuaded into believing there are other engines just as good as MARSHALL’S!
Send for Descriptive Catalog post free. CASH OR VERY EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD..
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“COURTESY and ATTENTION AT COST PRICE.”


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets lor return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE . .Geared Turbine 15,000 Regd. Tons.
ORAMA . .Triple-Screw. . 13,000 ~ „
ORVIETO ..Twin-Screw .. 12,130 ~ „
OSTERLEY- „ 12,129 „
OTRANTO „ „ .. 12.124 „
OTWAY 12.077 „
ORSOVA .. „ „ .. 12.030 ~
ORONTES ■ 9,023 ~
OMRAII .... „ .. 8,282 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
lianUiiiK. Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office : It MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at Z\% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and he REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when yon require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Fanners and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State J by 125 Branches
and over 500 Asrencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
Genera i, Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 251 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. .. £1,195,446
RESERVE FUND £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets. Svdney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Spy, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors — ,Tas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; F.
Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. ; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial fgutuai [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G:, M.L.C,, Chairman.
The lion, Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary
Shipping;.
ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
To COLOMBO, SUEZ NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON (for London), ANTWERP & BREMEN.
•Accelerated Service.
Largest steamers visiting Australia via Suez Canal.
All steamers with Wireless Telegraphy and Laundry.
First- and Second-Class Cabins installed with Electric
Fans. For full particulars and illustrated pamphlets
apply to LOIIMANN & CO., 5 Bridge Street.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
•Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.’’’
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy
PARTICULARS arid PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
♦Triple-screw Turbine. fNew Triple-Screw Steamer.
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
Saloon ■ FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 tp £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets interehange-
able with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and stop-over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNISY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•'Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)./
NORTH.
Canberra (sooo Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 18.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 22.
Leaves Sydney. July 25.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July, 29.
Leaves Sydney August 1.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping’ for
S.A. and \V.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney- July 18.
COOMA (4000, Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 25.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents
Offices at all Ports.
WINTER TOURS
fe
i
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
via. Lord Howe &. Norfolk Islands.
A Voyage Replete with Novel Sights,
Beautiful Scenery and Curious People.
One of the longest, most enjoyable and
inexpensive Island Holiday Trips ever
devised.
53 DAYS* TOUR FOR £25.
Send for our special Leaflet describing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PMILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney. William Street,
Melbourne. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
ǻ
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9.450 000
DI UE(JTOUS:
The H,Cn. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Ivt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
Tlie Hon. Kdinund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS': Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St.. Sydney. London Office—29 Thread needle St., E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World..
Cable remittances made to, anil drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. .T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
Gkorge J. CoitF.N, Esq. . . .. Chairman.
Mon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E S. Cape, Esq., and F. IV. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. 11. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
jjank of ||eui Zealand.
' SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . • • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,.000) Paid-
up .. , . . . . . .. 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking
business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. «=====
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written.in Australia
appear in Tiie Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 Oily. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination ’tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 8s; fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
THE
UNITED
(Jill | EuU
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
effected on ali classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks .
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The ‘‘ United ” is an Australian institution.
THOMAS M. TINHEY, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to'and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. ,
T.S.S. WA N DILL A (SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Aug. 1 and Aug. ‘i».
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MARLOO, July 18.
WAR IF, DA (8“00 tons),
July 25 and August 22.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-Stato Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. 8. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
-♦*
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-serew steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (Avonmouth).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,500 Tons. CAPTAIN CHICKEN,
BRISBANE . . about AUGUST 17, 1914.
SYDNEY .. „ AUGUST 22, 1914.
MELBOURNE .. „ AUGUST 25, 1914.
ADELAIDE . . ~ AUGUST 29, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON—
Saloon, £4O to £45. Third-class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.*
Third-class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of large two-
berth and family cabins on the upper deck amidships,
including Lounge and Smoke Rooms. Well-lighted
and ventilated Cabins and spacious Decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage. Electric Light
throughout. Return- and round-trip tickets issued
via Cape and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages
arranged. Fitted with Wireless.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to —
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Hvddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“llimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
"Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores and Chemists sell it.
Made by F. C. CALVERT & Co., Manchester, Kna


Holds. Ac.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 1G - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAUL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, arid no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
v,-
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/lt
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO’
' TRY THE ...
OL
0seo00O600
lEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sol’e Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
æ
JBank* 1 Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY -
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign b 11s negotiated and collected
Cable remittances ni • ....... *i le wo rld. bills negotiated or forwaroed for collection. Banking and
£cb”,gi Bufits^ofevery^TOiSou trTLcted witbi.fthe Commonwealth. United Kingdom and abroad.
accounts opened Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approi ed securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
■from
1/-
£3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%'
INTERSTATE and
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorenior.
INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australia States.
Healthy anil Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to■ the investor, the scientist, the tomist, the
prospective settler and to tlie honest worker.,'
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller, particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
THE “PLUJT” RAZOR SATISFIES.
-T
\-
\iA
That is why the “Plum” is such a favorite. It gives daily delight to
hundreds of men who shave themselves. There is merit in the “Plum”
—that's why.
A blade of finest silver steel—accurately tempered—keeps a keen cutting
edge indefinitely. It cuts clean, without dragging, and leaves the
face soft as velvet.
Get a “Plum” to-day and prove it.
THE “ PLIIM ” RAZOR—PRICE, 10/6 Post Free.
We guarantee to keep it in good order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/C.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITH.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Diamonds Reduced
Enormously.
Never before in the experience of
Australia were so '• many Diamonds
sold as last year. Our Sales were
enormously large.'
WHY ?
Well, we, some years ago, took on
a Sole Agency calling for an enor-
mous output, and, to live up to it, we
decided to offer Diamonds at merely
a Broker’s commission above landed
cutters’ cost.
3 Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
Choicely Cased,
£l2/12/-
U •• .
Choice Blue Sap-
phires and 2 fine
Diamonds, set in
Platinum,
£9/9/-
Fine Diamonds,
No. N 8740.
£32.
Choice Whole
Pearl and 6 Dia-
monds, set ‘n
Platinum,
£6/6/-
Fine Blue Sapphire
and 2 Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
Choicely Cased,
£B/8/-
3 Choice Whole
Pearls and 2 Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, Choicely
Cased, £7/7/-
The first year it did not pan out too well; the second year the very large output told, and
so we are continuing the experiment for another year.
We only sell the Higher Grade of Diamonds, but our Prices are Lower than those of London.
FAIRFAX &t ROBERTS, Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH ONLY
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET,
IF
you like your footworn* to bo iigh..
in every detail, wear Abbey Shoes.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
made-to-order style. All Patent,
Derby Bal., Leather Lined, 32/C.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (j.P.O. and Hunter St. ...
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney .
/
“ARAI3IS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever .. .
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to Look for th,e signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
WOLF
Patent
Superheated
STEAM LOCOMOBILE
THE LAST
IN
MODERN SUPERHEATED STEAM
WORD
ENGINE CONSTRUCTION.
In regard to durability, reliability, steady running
and adaptability, Wolf Superheated Steam Locomo-
biles at least equal the best steam engine or turbine
plants of several 1000-h.p.
Their superiority in economy is attained by their
faultless construction, and in obviating the many
losses, including radiation, etc., which are unavoid-
able in steam plants having separate boiler and
engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, Wolf
Locomobiles possess the following advantages:—
Cheaper cost of fuel; great reserve of power, allow-
ing overloads up to 50 per cent.; steadiness in run-
ning under extreme and sudden variation of load; use
of any kind of fuel besides coal; utilisation of steam
for heating or manufacturing purposes; easy attend-
ance, even by unskilled hands; Absolute Reliability
and Greater Durability; greater simplicity and con-
tinuously maintained economy also at lower loads.
s'.jsa
iinS»gypßa£|Bßsl
mmm
j
SSK |
THE EXCELLENT RESULTS
which Wolf Locomobiles always have given in every
kind of industry, even in the remotest corners of the
world, and often under the most unfavorable condi-
tions, offer to the carefully discriminating expert
unsurpassed advantages as to
RELIABILITY, DURABILITY, & CONTINUOUSLY
MAINTAINED ECONOMY OF HIS PRIME MOVER.
At the end of 1913 there were at work, to the utmost
satisfaction of their owners in:—
TOTAL OUTPUT: ONE MILLION H.P.
Australian Representatives ; : «
HAES & EGQERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


f\
m
What it means to own
a real
"KEEPDRY”
COAT
The “Oily” for Walking or Riding
It means that you have an oilskin that never lets you down;
that will never stick or let the water through.
It is carefully made from fine Japarra Silk, either Black or
Yellow—as you prefer.
You ought to have an “oily” you can depend upon—day in
and day out, for years.
That is why you should insist on a “Keepdry.”
42/- Walking Style.
45/- Riding Style.
The Genuine
“ KEEPORY ” COAT.
PIKE BROTHER
Townsville
LIMITED
BRISBANE
T oowoomba
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR, NO ICE NEEDED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
“Whiskers”: Queensland Gossip (B.
2/7/’l4) mentions the appointment of a
full-blooded Chinese youth to the staff of a
Bananaland State School. To match it I
report the recent appointment of a half-
caste negress. It’s this way. Bananaland
has never been really rushed with teachers.
There are two reasons. (1) At its best,
the job is not attractive. (2) The pay is
miserable. The Department does not be-
lieve that better remuneration will attract
good men. At least, if it thinks this it
doesn’t put the theory into practice. But
with spreading settlement, teachers must be
got. So the Department adopted a scheme
whereby a student, by passing a competitive
examination, could reduce to two years an
otherwise five-years course of apprenticeship.
Thus at the end of a couple of years the
Department has a crop of more or less
medium teachers. Incidentally it forgot
when it asked for applicants to specify that
the prospective teacher should at least be
white. The result is that variegated tints
have pushed themselves into the photograph,
so to speak. The teachers’ associations
might do something, but there are many
things which the average teachers’ associa-
tion would rather do than offend the Head
Serang of the Department. In fact, I know
hardly anything that it wouldn’t rather do.
“Cholmondley Fitzmaggot” writes :
The Liberal outlook in Queensland is umpty. The
P.P.L. has been battling to secure candidates to
carry Joe Cook’s tattered banner in the impending
rough-up, but there is a decided dearth of candidates
—leastways of those likely to carry it with any hope
of success. Who will ultimately be put forth to
do battle with the six Labor Senators God might
know, but the manipulators of the Liberal machine
do not—or, anyhow, they do not as this is being
penned. Nomination has been offered to Whitting-
ham, a pastoralist member of the Upper House, and
turned down; to Foxton, ex-Rep. and bad Australian
in matters of Defence policy, who also turned on the
overtures the glassy eye; to A. C. Morgan, one of
the Warwick clan, who sniffed suspiciously at the
P.P.L. brand of Liberalism, and then passed in a
definite “No.” It has been hawked to others, who,
presumably, do not consider Liberal chances rosy
enough to sacrifice the time necessary to conduct a
campaign. The cable was tapped in an effort to
get Arnold Wienholt, the amateur pugilist, who last
election was badly gulled by the Tory press and badly
whipped by Andy Fisher; but Wienholt is somewhere
in the bowels of Africa and ungetatable. It will
probably be from the diehards and deadbeats that
Queensland’s six will be chosen, as it is understood
the League is strongly opposed to again putting up
Chatawav, Sayers and Sledger, the three who were
butchered last time to make a Labor victory. For
the Reps., the mediocre Groom, whose luck in Federal
politics is only paralleled by the luck of Attorney-
General O’Sullivan in State politics, is sure to go
back; the “impossible” Sinclair is also fairly certain
to retain Moreton, another cow constituency; but
Stumm may get a shake-up in the Lillev. Here
ends the tale of Liberalism in Queensland. They
look with a false hope to recapturing Oxley, and any
hope of displacing Finlayson for Brisbane can be
accounted for by nothing else than the valor of
ignorance. Jenkinson, the cheap-jack mayor of the
city, who is just at present in the Courier boom,
had a spectacular refusal of nomination in this week’s
papers. He is holding himself in leash till next
year, to have a cut at Kirwan. chief metropolitan
member (Labor) in the State Parliament. Take)*
by and large, in Queensland it looks as if Freedom
will have to prepare for another shriek, for there is
going to be another fall.
“C 1,5.8.”: The price of the Kanaka is
still beFhg paid in the North. The last item
I saw in the bill was at Rockhampton, posted
outside the police station. It was a notice
offering £2OO for the delivery of something
whose mother was a half-caste and
the father a Kanaka. This Hell-knows-what
was born near Maryborough, and"ovas
wanted for murder.
“Showy” Baker’s proposal to teach boxing
in Queensland State Schools will be biffed
out, as the Denham crowd, with an election
pending, cannot afford to alienate wowser-
dom. Now, had the proposal been made- by
the Rev. Ilulton Sams, the thing would have
been different! What in the parson’s but a
manly sport is in the other fellow godless,
brutal stoush.
Another testimony to the deadly influence
of the Northern climate was forthcoming
at the Kilkivan show the other day. There
a Mrs. Spencer, a mere youngster of 85,
instead of doing something robust, like horse-
breaking or log-chopping, was satisfied to
appear merely as an exhibitor of hand-made
underwear. Certainly it was pleaded in
extenuation that her exhibits were the best
of the kind on the premises, and they won
THE POINT OF VIEW.
IMPORTED MARY ANN (discussing the new ledger): “ Well, he’s a common sort, anyway.
Yesterday I was carrying a can o' water upstairs, an’ he come along. ‘I’ll take
that,’ says he, an’ he carried it up hisself. No real gentleman he ain’t, that’s plain.”
the prizes; still, if youngsters are encou-
raged to do this class of work, how can the
North hope to find employment for its really
old people ?
Editor Maynard, of the Fakm Bulletin,
journeyed north recently to discover how
much of the truth had been told about the
Atherton tableland, inland from Cairns. He
looked over the fence of a 48-acre paddock
that had carried 140 cattle for four months;
then, into another of the same size that had
fed 52 for seven months. Also, he wept to
see that the heathen Chin Kee has settled on
the tablelamd, where he leases land for mixed
farming because there aren’t enough whites
to use it. Vet there are railways right along
the tableland, meatworks on the spot, a
State farjpij a first-class butter-factory and
over 300 miles of made roads. Also there
is a 70-inch average rainfall, and a known
area of 3000 miles of the finest scrub —
enough to serve a dozen settlements. As for
climate, in the last 12 months Sydney had
a mean maximum temperature of 70 and a
mean minimum of 56. whereas Atherton
tableland. had a mean maximum of 78 and
a mean minimum of 54. It isn’t the torrid
heat of the North that has kept a white
population away from this part. It is the
torrid lie?j that have been told about it in
the South.
The Railway Trains of Queensland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The railway trains of Queensland, they rattle
and they snort,
They jolt and list to starboard, they jar and
list to port,
And then they stop for half an hour,
absorbed in deepest thought.
The railway trains of Queensland go shriek-
ing through the air,
At fifteen goodly miles an hour along the
rails they tear,
While passengers pluck, patiently, the cinders
from their hair.
The railway guides of Queensland are full of
honest fun,
They surely quote the record times of some
triumphant run,
For when the guide says “half-past ten ”
the train arrives at one.
The railway lords of Queensland, they boast
their many miles,
And quote you facts and figures from their
vast statistic files.
The passenger he shakes his head and very
sadly smiles.
The railway trains of Queensland a hidden
blessing firing,
And teach us when we travel this little song
to sing:
,“O grave ! where is thy victory ? O deafh!
where is thy sting?”
QUEENSLAND.
J. M. GARRIE.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 11, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
This has been a week of farewell demon-
strations to the departing Excellencies. Mrs.
Barnes began it on Monday with an At Home
on the Lucinda. The aged craft was dis-
guised with flags, palms and wattle, and
looked very gay and festive. Mrs. “Bob”
Philp helped Mrs. Barnes to hold the gang-
way down when Lady Macgregor, the Vision
and tlie Paget child came aboard, and after-
wards stood by while Mrs. Barnes made pre-
sentations to the three guests of honor.
Lady Mac was loaded .with a handsome ad-
dress and a pendant of Queensland yellow
sapphires and diamonds; unto the Vision
was given an opal and diamond pendant, and
to little Honor Paget a pearl and diamond
pendant. Later, Lady Mac was handed
another pendant, an opal set in platinum.
The James Clarks shelled out the opal, and
the setting was the gift of those of the corset
sex who provided the first-mentioned trinket.
Then on Thursday night her Ex. and the
Vision were coaxed to the Centennial Hall
by Mayoress Jenkinson to sample a citizens’
farewell. More presents and good wishes
enhanced the shining and profitable hour.
The principal donee took home as her share
an exceptionally handsome cabinet of
Queensland woods and a beautifully illumi-
nated address from the women and girls of
Bananaland. Mrs. Allen, Mayoress of South
Brisbane, enriched the Vision with yet
another pendant and a brooch, both set with
Torres Strait pearls, blue sapphires and
diamonds; and Mrs. Lunn, Mayoress of
Sandgate, handed Lady Macgregor a brooch
for the Paget child.
Now, concerning the Chiel. (I hope I’m
not boring you, Thargomindah. It’s not
every day we get rid of a Governor.) On
Friday morning members of the National
Agricultural and Industrial Association
went to the vice-regal gunyah and put a
spare illuminated plaster on the Macgregor.
John Macdonald, chairman of the Associa-
tion, also handed over two brooches as
emblems of life membership.
Next —but why make a ship’s manifest of
this? Suffice to say that the Mac-gregors
carry away enough tokens of their popu-
larity to keep Queensland eternally green
in their memory, even if they forget the
politics of Digby Denham and the giant
Democrats who help him carry the Flag of
Progress.
Parliament commenced its alleged labors
again on Tuesday. The vice-royal party
contained Sir William and Lady Mac., the
Vision, the Paget infant and Mrs. Cecil
Roberts, of Croxley. The hats of the women
were the most interesting part of the show.
The pictures at the Art Society’s exhibi-
tion this year are better than those of last
year or the year before. One artist who has
made big strides is William Grant. He
exhibits, among other canvases, a painting
of a party under a tree, with little flecks
of sunlight on their dresses. A southern
visitor mistook it for the work of Phillips
Fox. Grant should be pleased. Gwen
Stanley and Vida Lahey have also put in
signs of talent, the former particularly in
some beautifully painted china. Harrison,
of the Argus (Melb.), has sent up some
creditable brushwork, and Miss Traille,
another Melb. artist, also deserves mention.
The big surprise of the show, however, is
Agatha Fitzgerald, a debutante of last year.
She has entered a book illustration that
shows positive genius. If she develops nega-
tive genius now, the explosion will be tre-
mendous.
The Randall Art Gallery was opened on
Monday, by George V.’s representative, in
the South Brisbane Technical College. The
paintings are the work of the late R. J.
Randall, and were donated by big father.
The deceased artist worked only for six
years, but the results give a far better idea
of the beauties of Queensland than all the
pamphlets in the Tourist Bureau.
Harry Lauder was frantically welcomed
by brither Scots last Saturday, and has been
talking (you observe I don’t say singing)
to good houses ever since.
James McWhirter, sen., entertained the
employees of McWhirter and Son, Ltd., at
a theatre party at the Empire on Tuesday
night. In all, the old gentleman paid for
552 seats, which appears to be a record. He
left for England by the Orama next day.
(P.S. —The theatre bill had nothing to do
with the get-away.)
Finally, the Macgregors, the Vision and
little Honor left for Sydney on Friday. The
rest of the family and the Foxton aide will
join them next Thursday. All then go
on to Melbourne, where the Macs board the
Marathon. Captain Foxton will come back
here, and continue as private sec. to Arthur
Morgan.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The Butterman Government has filled up
seven vacancies in the House of Fossils, and,
true to Tory traditions, has chosen three
out of the number among the rejects of the
people. Silas Curtis has been whipped
times out of number when appealing for
election; Stephenson has been three times
defeated for Ipswich ; and Campbell was
turned down by Drayton and Toowoomba.
The other four have never been heard of—
barring O’Shea, who is the most stentorian
police-court solicitor in Brisbane. But as
long as they don’t interfere unduly with the
profits of the middleman they’ll pass muster
with Denham and Barnes.
“Politicus” : The latest batch of appointees
to the Legislative Council are hopelessly
Tory—with the exception perhaps of soli-
citor O’Shea. The elevation of Andrew Dunn
to the Peers is a tribute to the. owner of
three Liberal journals at Warwick, Rock-
hampton and Maryborough respectively, so
that the press is duly recognised. But dhe
Bananaland pastoral and mining interests
have been entirely overlooked, and Messrs.
Merino and Mullock are in consequence
boiling with indignation. How is it that the
claims of A. M. Hertzberg to a Councillor-
ship are overlooked so persistently? Hertz-
berg is a Liberal Semite ,of broad social
views and wide business experience, popular
even among his Labor adversaries. Evi-
dently these things are disqualifications.
“Binnacle’s” illumination: —
The judgment of the Special Court as to the
cause of the epoch-marking collision between the
Empress of Ireland and the Storstad is that the
main fault rests on the third officer of the collier,
who altered the ship’s course without authority.
The Court found, specifically, that the action of
Captain Kendall in stopping the big liner was
rather laudable than censurable. It is uncanny that
the Titanic horror was caused by the high
speed of that ship, while the Empress came to
grief by not travelling fast enough. The Court could
not make any suggestions as to what should be done
to prevent such catastrophes, beyond the recom-
mendation that on all passenger ships the water-
tight compartments be closed throughout at sunset,
so as to minimise the consequences of the possible
smash. But closing the watertight compartments
would not have saved the Empress of Ireland, though
perhaps it would have given those on board a little
more time to escape or drown. The decision against
the Storstad does not carry any legal responsibility,
as, being German, she is outside the jurisdiction of
a British Court. In any event, a Marine Court
verdict is not of any weight in civil jurisdiction.
Judging from N. S. AVales experience, the Vice-
Admiralty Court invariably comes to a different con-
clusion, while the Courts of Appeal enthusiastically
disagree with the verdicts of both the Courts below.
So all is shouts of derision and chaotic orders to go
full ahead and hard astern simultaneously.


Drink that which is Pure!
£lOOO
Will be paid if the following Certificates of Purity and
GoodllßSS granted by the foremost Health Authorities in
the World are proved contrary to fact:
British Analytical Control
APPROVAL
"The British Analytical Control
hereby certifies that the analysis
of O,T, shows that it is free from
all harmful preservative chemi-
cals and objectionable substan-
ces. O.T. is approved by the
British Analytical Control.”
H. E. CARR, Secretary,
London, 31st May, 1912.
British Admiralty
XI
PPROVAL
APPROVAL
Admiralty, London, S,W,
21/11/11.
"O.T. is approved for sale on
His Majesty’s Ships.”
J. H. BROOKS,
Director of Victualling.
Pure Food & Health Society
APPROVAL
" O.T. is hereby approved and
recommended by the Pure Food
and Health Society of Great
Britain.”
20 Hanover Square,
London, W.
Lord Camoys, President
WHAT OTHER DRINK HAS BETTER GUARANTEES OF PURITY?
Your Drinks
by Always
adding a
little
O.T.
to Everything
you
drink
MADE FROM THE FINEST NATURAL FOODS—FRUIT AND HERBS
x Avoid the
Dishonest Trader
who
attempts to pass
off
\ Substitutes >
Remarkable Increase of Sales
For Year
1906
1910
1913
Bottles
43,536
922,920
3,076,312
Drinks
1,044,000
22,150,000
73,843,000
• •
Sole Makers:
O.T. LTD.,
Pure Drink
Manufacturers,
Australia
and London
2
other
good
Drinks
• •
MERRY CUP— The New (Sweet) Fruity Drink
O.T. Co.’s PURE LEMON SQUASH —contains no added water


Business Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
m
ǽ
m
-
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
i the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
: San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
.! tore. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
, nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
! parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
ooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
J Hymccea?
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
a
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole lViol sale A ents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
/ J
Do You Like to Draw ?
That's "all we want to know.
If you are anxious to,develop
your talent for sketching so
you can make money, send
i s a copy of this sketch, and
kt us explain.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
> OF SKETCHING,
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
PARFUM
“JUNE ROSES”
MO^
k>,
m
on
, The real fragrance
_ mt Eng isli roses, is for the first
time, distilled into this potent Essence,
which is unapprcached for truth and
beaut}' of odour.
Besi les the perfume, a complete range of
Exquis te Toilet Pro-
ducts is i sued by
j\rorny;> all fragrant
with this perfect scent
“June Roses” Perfume, 7/-,
10/6, 18/6; Complexion Pow-
der (5 tints), 7/6; Bath Salts,
4/-, 10/6; Bath Dusting
Powder, 7/6; Sachets for Cor-
sage, 1/-
A NEW & TRUE FLOWER ODOUR
TlllS MORNY FINE HATH AND PERFUME
PRODUCTS are retailed in Sydney by:—
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, 160 Pitt Street.
PATTINSON & CO., 427 George Street.
FARMER & CO., 221-9 Pitt Street.
CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE STORES OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LTD., 152 4 Pitt Street.
IT. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists, 149 Krng Street.
Wholesale Agents only: DRUGGISTS ; LTDr,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
0
in
1
H
How to Care
For a Gun.
After footing remove the
barrel, and* wipr thoroughly with
rag soaked in
“3-in-One”
Oil
Cl-an inside of barrel from
breech end with oily rag on
cleaning rod.
Polish stock with “ 8-in-Ol10.”
Then, to keep the gun in per-
fect condition, a few days later
wipe oil off, and go over gun
again with fresh “ 3-iri-onO ” rag.
“ Ti'irec-in-Qtie” Oil is sold
everywhere in Bottles and Handy
Oil Can.
Write for Sample! Bottle—it’s
Free !
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents.
82 C, HARRIS ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z
a
à
á
0
10
A FEW HOMELY
. . HINTS ON . .
BEAUTY.
By RITA MOYA.
Every woman should take pride'in her personal appearance. If it is not possible to
he beautiful in the fullest sense of the word, at least you can have the attractiveness of a
pleasant expression, glossy, well-kept hair, eyes shaded by long lashes, well marked eje-
brows and a clear, natural complexion. My first advice is to avoid most manufactured
“beauty preparations.” Use simple, pure, natural ingredients. Ise these regularly, and do
not make constant changes and experiments. The various things I use and advise can he
bought in original packages from any reliable chemist. It they are not in stock he can at
once procure them from his wholesaler if you insist.
How I Discarded an Unsightly Complexion.
; —How many women exclaim as they behold
their ugly complexions in the mirror: “If I
could only tear off this old skin!” and, do you
know, it is now possible to do that very thing?
Not to actually remove the entire skin all of a
sudden: that would be too heroic a method
and painful, too, 1 imagine. The worn-out
cuticle comes off in such tiny particles, and
so gradually—requiring about 10 days to com-
plete the transformation —it doesn’t hurt a bit.
Day by day the beautiful ..complexion under-
neath comes forth. Marvellous! No matter
how muddy, rough, blotchy or aged your com-
plexion. you can surely discard it by this
simple process. Just- get some ordinary mer-
eolised wax at your chemist’s, apply nightly
like cold cream, washing it off in the morn-
ings.
New Painless Way to Remove Hairy
Growths.—lt now transpires that the mys-
terious white paste used so successfully by
many beauty specialists for ridding the skin
of objectionable hairy growths is nothing
more than powdered plieminol, which can be
found in any chemist’s shop. With plieminol
and water make enough paste to cover hairy
surface; apply, and in two or three minutes
rub off. wash the skin, and it will be free
from hair or blemish.
Shampoo and Hair Beaut,ifler. —You complain
of brittle, faded hair. You will find that keep-
ing the scalp clean and healthy is the most
effective way to restore life natural beauty
and softness, but in selecting your shampoo
avoid soaps or mixtures containing “free”
alkali, ll.v dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax
iii a cup of liot water you will have a mild,
soothing, cleansing mixture that makes the
head feel fine and removes all dust, dandruff
and excess of oil, leaving the scalp clean and
pliant, and assuring a beautiful growth of
long, lustrous, fluffy hair.
No Powder Necessary.— Yes, powder has
ruined more complexions that it has aided,
and while you use it you can hope for nothing
better than an imitation of a real complexion.
Take my advice. Get from your chemist some
ordinary cleminite and dissolve in a little
water, then you will have an ideal yet inex-
pensive lotion, which seems a part of the skin.
The result lasts all day long even under tin 1
most trying conditions. To prepare (he face
and neck for an evening in a hot ballroom
there is nothing to equal this simple and harm-
less lotion.
If Eyelashes are Short.- —Eyelashes will be
greatly beautified if mennaline be applied at
lash-roots with thumb and forefinger. A
few such treatments make them grow long,
silky and curly. Thin, straggly eyebrows will
grow thick and lustrous by merely rubbing
mennaline on, but be careful and don't get
any where no hair is wanted.
Wonderful Growth of Hair. —Long ago 1
made a resolution to try and concoct a real
hair grower. My own formula, now perfected
after tedious experimenting, has had the effect
of giving me a wealth of hair that is .surpris-
ing. Obtain from your chemist an original
package of boranium and mix with this j-pint
of bay rum. Hub this into t lie scalp night
and morning with the finger tips. It .sets the
hair roots tingling with new life. fC
jb jmm Established 1847.
Allcocks
A
PLASTERS
Eagle Mark pO R
Kidney
Troubles
Always apply two (see
cut) one over each kidney.
We have found by ap-
plying in this manner they
do much better work and
are vastly superior to the
large and clumsy so-called
kidney plaster.
When you need a Pill
take a Brandreth's Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLC3CK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
m %
'T'O-DAY particular thought should be given to
■* one’s shoes. Definite purpose and not caprice
should rule their choice, since Fashion recog-
nises their dress value and insists that they shall
harmonise with the. rest of one’s attire. Thus, by
following the lead of Fashion, a very distinctive
and pleasing note can be attained. Bostocks
are designed for wear with the newest toilettes ;
they are exclusive in style and the cream of
imported shoes. •. '
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
804
m-
m
Style 590
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
dra.vn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
â
ã
ä
å
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except of a hostile character) uill he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
frame end address must appear on MSS. fr’o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no'MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
lletsbew : Imitations of Omar have to be
very well clone to crowd through. You haven’t even
.stuck to the old fellow’s form E.H.T.: Five lines:
Cheer, cheer cheer !
Our hearts within us heaving,
Thinking not of sweethearts grieving,
One and all with him believing
Rests the honor of the day.
Isn’t it enough to throw up your hat and give three
cheers without also heaving up your heart?....
Plugelius: You’re in need of a course of training
to get the best service out of your ideas... .Eblana:
Have another go at it and trim it up O.: Just
missed it. . . .Right Away: Too trivial. . . .Sign Please:
Verses on “Winter—Done by a Counter Hand” very
uneven. One or two ate capital—for instance, wherein
the counter hand asks if the blues of yesterday are
sold out. Others are so rough that Mawson couldn’t
climb over them.... Barbed Wire Joe: Joseph, this is
your first attempt. Let us point out what you may
come to if yo i go on. You may have to wear a
velvet coat, ai d go to London, and be made Laureate,
and stand a knighthood, perhaps even put up with
an earldom, and pass afternoon tea and cakes to
duchesses. How would you like that? You’d better
leave off before you g'et past this: —
Snowy Williams put up the quid,
We saw that it was real ;
Browny went down to the end of the town
To borrow a fiver of Mr. Peal.
Besides, poets should discourage borrowing. People
haven t got more to lend than the poets themselves
want to borrow.... Sam Sundries: Crude, and not
enough in them. ... 11. War: The fourth set of very
rocky verses on “Winter” to-day. What a dreadful
thing it must be to be an editor in London!....
A. Humphries: Why don’t you write something that
js printable? You are wasting an unusually vigorous
pen.... Sav a’Loi: Only a point or two below print-
level ... .ILG.H.: When wed got to the end of the
breathless narrative we felt like an Amurikan com-
edian. The fatality happened when we thought over
it afterwards. ... A. Nickols: Not a glimmer of either
interest or humor in it.... Vernon B.: Afraid it was
basketed. .. . E.C. (Petersburg, S.A.): Fear the
post has swallowed them. Holding “The Plain” and
“First Blowfly” for revision Bier (Kew) : The dif-
ference “drunk” and “dead drunk”? With
us it’s about 15 drinks ; but we know some people,
novices, of course, who do it in about 10....
J.M.: No point to it.... Two Seas: The police officer
who was caught by the Judge giving false evidence
against a N.S.W. (presumably) hotelkeeper would
have made an interesting paragraph if you had men-
tioned where the incident occurred. You don’t
seem to realise that Australia is a large place. Are
you W. A. Holman or Digby Denham ? F.G.: Paid
for out of revenue lshmacl: Thanks. A par. has
already been written about that case. The Govern-
ment of' N.S.W., when McGowen was Premier, threat-
ened a Royal Commission to inquire into the child-
slavery (vouched for by their responsible officers) in
the dairying districts. But what is the suffering of
hardened children compared with the suffering of
delicate politicians faced with the risk of losing
votes ?... .J.Iv.M.: If the circumstances are as you
say, report to the sergeant in charge of the station or
the inspector in charge of the district. .. .Kyneong■
Full of sympathy for the lady ; but woudn’t it do her
more harm than good? Jobber: Had one on just
those lines four weeks ago.... John Hume: N 0....
J.F.: lour anti-Trust scheme fails to appeal to us. .. .
G.: There are some points about your “Creed
of a True Liberal,” but though you, as a private
and obscure individual, may afford to be an absurd
ass and liar, this paper can’t afford it. Your sug-
gestion that it is the Tory crowd which floats the
big loans, when everybody knows it is the alleged
Labor push which has rushed up the N.S.W. public
borrowings from £2,000,000 a year to £8,500,000,
makes us feel wild. . . .Bandy: The grammirian would
probably say that “Malua, which won him a heap
of money,” is more correct than “Malua, who won
him,” etc. However, this paper makes its own
grammar. Know any reason why it shouldn’t? If
by sticking to somebody else’s rule you sacrifice force
or grace, the sensible thing to do is to throw the
rule overboard. .. .Befogged: Sorry can’t help you. ...
T.F.M.: This is a bad market for parodies....
L’aiglon: “Reverie” of no account whatever. .. .F.lv.:
If you pulled out a few of the feathers it wouid
make an Abo.. par Bulli: Can’t undertake to
return the MS. of unaccented pars.... Liz: You
haven’t hit anything except the basket this time;
still, you’ve got the makings of a paragraphist. . . .
Inside Observer: Too diffuse. Send us the marrow,
and keep the bones Redroc: So the D’Vere lady
pulled your leg, too, did she ?... .Bellerive: Come
in and sit by the fire: —-
TRIBUTE TO BARCROFT HENRY BOAKE,
THE DROVER POET.
’ As a drover poor Boake
Played a rough part,
With a sensitive mind
And a tender heart;
In a desolate land
A doleful shadow did rest
Of the mournful tree
O’er the bard of the West.
He’d conjure up verse
During a dreary ride,
And when camoed with cattle
On some grey hillside.
When in a fit of depression
Bv his own hand did Die,
The young author of
“Where the dead men Lie.”
’...The Native Bare: What’s a “disappointed dis-
allusion,” anyhow?....M. lldcw: Nav; also bray
....Wilder and Taipo: Not up F'C.: “Waratah
Land is vigorous; but its virtues stop at that....
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
St. Leo.: Have examined your inhuman cartoons,
and decided that you are either extremely young or
dotty... . Jas. B.: The jest-is a poor thing,-and the
careful wav you evening-dress your ladies in the
fashions of 10 years ago suggests various things that
don’t inspire confidence. .. .E.11.K.: Little Noah’s Ark
figures with Noah’s ark japes. .. .C.R.C.: Both ladies
are obviously paralysed arid speechless, so the fruit-
less remark must have been made by a third party.
Gee Gen: Neither" of. any use. Don’t remember
other drawings. If we "have them they will be sent ..
back with this 10t.,-, V.A.D.: It looks' as if it had
been evolved on the’ banks of the Cotter.... Ronald
S.: You have two figures—the doctor and the patient.
You dodged drawing the. doctor’s hands by putting
them behind his back ; then you put the' patient’s
hat on his left hand. That only left one hand to be
fixed, and. like a foolish fellow, you went and drew
it. Why didn’t you bandage it or put it in a sling?
You, might even have made it a hook. You can
drawYhooks, can’t you?. . . .Exlex: Demands too much
explanatory letternress.
u - ■
A straight tip from the stable (Adelaide
Advertiser advt., 26/6/T4) :
Satan, Prince of the Power of the Air, suggested
to man the jjiabolical idea of Airships.—J.' Dutton.
In a new book by a woman novelist, the
prosy aunt of a bride wrote to her: “If you
have chosen a really good man, God will bless
your marriage” ; and the girl replied sweetly :
“Thank you so much for giving me the mes-
sage !” So in the Adelaide case. But is
Mr. Dutton sure he isn’t breaking a confi-
dence ?


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
GRAGKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE tlie Top Notcliers.
They ARE made of the Rest
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Rest.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE ...... 1/-
SENIOIi 2/- BOSS CRACKER 17-
JUNIOR 1/(5 CADET /(>
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
w
T>"
«t
Silver-Toned
ELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reed's.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WKITE FOK OUK NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
€6
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
CATARRH
INSTANT RELIEF
ULTIMATE CURE-
lO I-
Catarrh is unpleasant both to the sufferer
and his associates. It often leads to consump-
tion; it is' a frequent cause of deafness; )t
creates dyspepsia; and it invariably lowers the
tone of the sufferer, impairing his capacity for
work and enjoyment.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
ā
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal ]
Deafness, Headache, Neural-
gia, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Hay Fever, etc., etc.
Restores the sense of taste and smell,
and thoroughly cleanses, soothes and
heals.
Thousands of people in Australia and
N.Z. have derived the greatest benefit
from •Ramey’s Mddidatov. lSecome one
Size,
long.
of them.
The complete outfit costs
10/=
ORDER NOW. USE THIS FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Australian Buildings, Melbourne, \ic
Please send Outfit containing 1 Niel? el-plated
Ramey Medicator, 1 bottle Tnhalent, and 1 tin
Ointment (four months’ treatment), pose paid,
for which I enclose Ten Shillings.
Name
Address
j
Send Order or Postal Note. Cash
must be registered.’ -
THE WORLD’S BEST
Calculating Machine,
The“Triumphator”
Novel and easier way of setting the figures,
which remain visible in special show-holes
above the setting levers.
Carrying over tens device in MULTIPLIER
and QUOTIENT, as well as in PRODUCT
show-holes. . ,
Registers Multiplier and Quotient correctly
in large white figures.
Illustrated descriptive Catalogue on applica-
tion to the Agents:—
A. P. GREENFIELD 8 CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
45. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
lnsnt on “ Skeletons' —refuse all substitutes.
tooheys limited
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manofactox-ers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ă
of all Chemists
Horlick’s is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised."
Horlick’s will refresh you more than
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
HORLIC K’s|
MALTED MILKB
ą
e
SgP_AWOTkj>V^
'K-IIHC C* Mil*
Sample will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps. —Hutchinson
and Co., 26, Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Try it at
the Soda fountain.,
9
wmrxmwr**
1
The Simplest and most Efficient.
i
fret the Pen
that Fills Itself
that cannot leak —that is All-
British made —that is designed
to last a lifetime—and is guar-
anteed by the manufacturers.
The One Peally Satisfactory
Self-Filling Safety Fountain
Pen -the
Price 12/- and upwards of all Station-
ers, Jewellers,, and. Stores. Booklet
about the Onoto Pen free on appli-
cation to Thos. de la Rue & Co.,
I,td., 322Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street. Sydney.
Onoto
The Self filling
Safety fountain Pea
Pen
Three
Sizes
of
VA.2
3J4 H. P.
: ■ '
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the <
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating, For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
Motors can be fitted with the Famous Maxim Silencer.
MELCHIOR, ARMSTRONG a" d D SSA U.
Dept. D-12, 116 Broad Street, New York US.A,
■Descriptive Booklet Post Free from
Controlling Representative for* Australasto and .New Zea-
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 A" B g al |?2S n JS^Kfpt.' Q D-12, Broonie, W.A.; C. J. Eller-
fhawT’Co, Dept S D-!2, Perth, W.A. Agents wanted in unallotted territory.
Apply, H. a; GODDARD, Brisbane.
Fr=
l\>
In the
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use
Calvert's
.footh Powder'
and of course, the same
thorough c.ntiseptic cleansing
is just as necessary
again at night.
Soli by local Chemists and S'otet.
■ Made by
FC. CALVERT & CO., i
MANCHES ER. /
ã
THE FAMOUS
SCH EBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS
ǻ
FORD OWNERS
can now have
a SCHEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
gain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUiCKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECONOMY.
Price, as illustrated* £5/10,-
Booklet and all particulars from
SOLE AGENTS—
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
-yOU begin to
look old, with
those grey and
hairs;
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
æ
Lockyer’s _
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
THE
WELMAR
SHIRT
pal. 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers
*-■’ - and - J
Outfitters
ǽ
Manufactured by
WELCH, MARGETSON& CO,
' PTY. LTD.
mHE Best Stories written by Australian
1 Writers appear in The Lone Hand
llagazine. Brice, 6d. .monthly.


Amusements.
DICKAHDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
Commencing NEXT SATURDAY, at the MATINEE.
; BETH TATE, the Californian Girl.
DUSTY RHODES.
I,’ WALLACE BROWNLOW,
'! THE GILLS. GERTRUDE GEBEST.
EUGENE DAMOND. JOSH DIXON.
WJNIFRED WARD. GILDAY & FOX.
Box Plan Theatre and NicholsonV.
I VOLI
Governins
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ADA REEVE
ADA REEVE
ADA REEVE
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
Plan at Allan’s, PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
"piVOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FARR & FARLAN D.
AL ROVER.
FOUR VAGABONDS.
KRACHT BROS.
W. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
BARONESS D’ASTRELL.
VIVIEN TALLEUR & FRED READE.
piVOLI T H E A T R E, I* E II T 11.
1 HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ED. E. FORDE, the Australian Sundowner.
THE CREIGHTONS.
SIX CAMERONS. GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. LAZERN.
HENNESSY & MARTELL.
SALINGER & HAMILTON. ■
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. No Extra Fees.
DAUL DIIFAIJLT CONCERTS.
PAUL DUFAULT CONCERTS.
PAUL DUFAULT CONCERTS.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN PRESENTS
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
The Greatest Concert Tenor That Has Ever Visited
The Southern Hemisphere.
“Paul Dufault is a singer to hear and hear again.”
—Melbourne Age.
FOUR FAREWELL CONCERTS.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
SATURDAY . . . . JULY 18.
TUESDAY . . .. JULY 21.
THURSDAY . . . . JULY 23.
SATURDAY . . . . JULY 25.
Assisting Artists:
PAULINE BINDLEY .... Soprano.
ERNEST TOY Violinist.
HAROLD WHITTLE Pianist.
Prices: 5/- (reserved), 3/- & 2/-, at Paling’s.
PAUL DUFAULT CONCERTS.
P]A U L DUFAULT CONCERTS.
PAUL DUFAULT CONCERTS.
|J E It JIAJES T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLI A MSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing rnusical treat of 1914
PLANS AT PALING'S.
DEI,I* II | TIIEA T R E. SYDNEY
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD., in conjunction wit
Beaumont Smith and Louis Meyer have the honor t
present
MK.-AFU.
An enthralling play of true Anglo-Eastern life
- Prices:!4 /-> 3 /-> 2/-, 1/-, Plan at Nicholson’s.
[V] AXIONAL THEATRE, BYDNEI
■'■ Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
i/ A i L 3o, u\™ DI t VILLE twice DAILY, at 8.
1/- k 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY 1/- &6<
SEBASTIAN MERRILL. THE HARTLEY WONDErI
PDID PERCIVAL. ROSE MILLWARD.
MATILDE & ELVIRA. LITTLE VERLIE
n .™ E CHIPOLA TWINS. VIENNA TRIO.'
DAVIS & GLENDHILL. EDITH BOULTON
WESTON & HILL. . MOLLIE AMBROSE
Evening Prices as Usual.
’Phone Central 906 for Reservations.
I **** F R lAI, SALON I) E LUX]
Direction BENDRODT k IRVING.
DANCING AS USUAL.
SESSIONS TWICE DAILY.
GRAND MASQUERADE BALL
TUESDAY, AUGUST 4.
’Phone: 682 William Street.
T II E I, ITT Jj E TIIE A T R
. V rp CARTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Last Two Nights of THE MASTER OF ANGERSTROOI
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 18.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER & MISS VIOLET PAGET
in
SWE E T LAYENDEE
PINERO’S SAVEETEST PLAY.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Yn„ haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRE
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRES
Ihe finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, shown
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 pm
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTI
AV. BAURiN-ciTOK Mii.LF.it. General Manager.
T 11
OLYMPIA, SYI) N E 1
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICT URLS, LTJ
“UKST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S AHCE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s fNo Extra Fee)
HAVE YOU SEEN OUR BIG CAT-
ALCXJUE;? over 500 pages, 1000 illustrations. Household*
Labor Savers, Musical Novelties, Sporting Goods, Tricks,
Games, Puzrles and Things you cannot get anywhere else
Send SIX PENCE fdr it, that will be allowed off first order
The Union Company, 29 9 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne!
a
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Trice Gd.
. Amusements.
Q IiACIABIUM, SYDNEY.
THE ICE-SKATING SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 .to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
■ 'Phone. Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE. Manager,
g I* KNC I? It’S I, YCE U M, SYI)N E Vi
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL.
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, II- k 6d. Plan at Paling's k AVhite Rose.
TIIE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LEROY, TALMA & BOSCO.
MIRTH. MYSTERY. MAGIC.
POPULAR PRICES. PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Direction.
E. .1. CARROLL.
H
EU MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 18.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
OPERA CO. in
THE YEOMAN OF THE GUARD.
SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
Plnn at Allan’s. Prices: Cs.. 45., 2s. and Is,
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
in
OFFICER, 606.
PRICES: Dross Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls. 4/-: Gallorv. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. .MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
GLORIOUS NEWS FOR THE IRISH.
Return of Everybody’s Favorite,
ALLAN DOONE
and his talented Company of Comedians, in
TJltt COLLEEN BAWN.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, 12 NIGHTS ONLY.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
RIJO U T H E A T R E. M K L B O U R N IS.
** FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN. J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPHINE GASSMAN’S PICCANINNIES.
F. HAGAN & CO. FERNANDEZ & MAY.
FORD & DAVIS. WESTON’S LIVING MODELS.
LIVERMORE AND HIS DOLL.
HANLON, DEAN & HANLON. MORAN & CAHILL.
Prices: 2/6. 2/-, 1/- k 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- k 6d.
MELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE
Direction GREGAN McMAIION.
ST. PETER’S HALL (Eastern Hill), on
SATURDAY, MONDAY & TUESDAY,
JULY 18, 20 & 21.
WHIT H E R ?
A Play in 3 Acts by MARY E. WILKINSON.
Box Plans open Monday, at the Pianola Co. and
Booklovers’ Library. No seats guaranteed unless
reserved. 3/- and 1/6.
HAUL,, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
THE FIREFLIES
MUSICAL COSTUME COMPANY.
Prices: 2/- and I/-.
Direction: E, B. MANNING and H. N. GREGORY.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
**■ • By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
|y| EIBOI’RNE G Jj A C I A R I U M.
ICE-SKATING.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
, EVENINGS AT 7.45.
\AI USD’S PAIAC E. MEIIiOI’RN j;
mi! best WEST’S IJJ1 J J (J'J’URESthe best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WES I’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
RIKCII&C A R R O L I.
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the prinei
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading 'Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS BRTSB WF
mm
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
1 Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenatcr (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
I Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, "Blue Violets”,
Lily of the Valley”, "Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established. 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 29th. June, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Freight of Coal from Westport (N.Z.)
to Various Australian Ports.
fIIENDERS will be received, subject to the
JL Conditions of Tendering, until twelve
noon on Wednesday, 22nd July, 1914, for
Freight; of Coal from Westport (N.Z.) to
the following Australian Ports, viz., Bris-
bane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Fre-
mantle, Hobart and Thursday Island. Period
of Contract from date of acceptance of
tender until 30th June, 1915.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Freight of Coal” on top left-hand corner of
envelope, and addressed (if by post, prepaid)
to the Director of Navy Contracts, Navy
Office, Melbourne, or to the Director of Navy
Contracts, care Naval Staff Office, Brisbane,
Sydney, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or
Hobart.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Tenders to be in all cases on the printed
form, which can be obtained as above.
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
Rusiness Announcements.
The EDISON
Dictating
Machine.
This machine is first assistant to the
executive who has a big pile of corres-
pondence to work off each morning.
Just as you open and read a letter the
idea for the reply invariably comes at
once, and the Edison Dictating
Machine is at your elbow waiting for
you to speak into it.
There’s no need to call your typist—
in fact, she need not be able to write
shorthand.
Descriptive Booklet sent on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
364=372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 .Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer; SBS SUSSEX
STBEET, SYDNEY. __
The Friend of
Suffering Humanity
Solomon
Solution
■ ■ ■ - <
Brings speedy, sure relief in most cases of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Gout and kindred
troubles—and will cure the most obstinate
case if persevered with. Invaluable also
Sprains, Cuts, ai d nniiy other simple ills.
2/6 Jars obtainable from your Chemist or Store-
keepers; post free for 3/- from
SOLOMGN COX & SON
433‘Bourke Street, Melbourne.
illlE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month,
'rice Gd.
I,egral Notices.
Adela Smedley Dowsett.
PURSUANT to an Order of the High
Court of Justice in England, Chancery
Division, made in an Action in the Matter
of the Trusts of an Indenture of Settlement
dated the 23rd April, 1824, and made upon
the marriage of Edward Taylor Burton
Janverin and Martha Janverin. both since
deceased, Connor v. Tottenham 1013. J. 254..
the persons claiming to be legally and bene-
ficially entitled to the share of Adela
Smedley Dowsett in the capital of the trust
funds comprised in the above-mentioned
Settlement, are personally or by a Solicitor
on or before the 10th November, 1914. to
come in and enter their claims with the
undersigned Master, at the Chambers of Mr.
Justice Warrington and Mr. Justice Sar-
gant, at the Royal Courts of Justice, Strand.
London, England, or in default thereof be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Tuesday, the 17th Novem-
ber, 1914, at 12.30 o’clock in the afternoon
at the said Chambers (Room No. 315). js
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon
the claims.
Dated the 22nd day of Mav, 1914.
CIIAS. HERBERT,
Master.
NOTE. —The said Adela Smedley Dow
sett was the Wife of Thomas Dowsett (who
was born, it is believed, at Salisbury, Eng-
land. on the 29th April, 1833). She left
England with her husband on the 16th
November, 1852, for Australia, and, it is
believed, died after a short illness during
the voyage, leaving her husband surviving.
CROSSMAN, PRICHARD, CROSSMAN
AND BLOCK, 16 Theobalds Road,
Gray’s Inn, London, England.
Agents for—
GREEN, MOBERLY & GREEN,
Southampton. England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Court of
Chancery of the County Palatine of
Lancaster, made in the matter of the Estate
of Samuel Burgess, deceased, and in gin ac-
tion by John Bammill and another against
Ellen Baker and others (1914, 11. No. 81),
the person or persons claiming to be Samuel
Myles (a son of John Myles) or (if the
said Samuel Myles died after the 13tli day
of June, 1847) to be his legal personal re-
presentatives or (if the said Samuel Myles
died before the 13th day of June, 1847), to
be his issue or the legal personal representa-
tives of any of his issue who have since died
are by their Solicitors on or before the sth
dav of October, 1914, to come in and prove
their claims at the Chambers of the Regis-
trar of the Manchester District of the said
Court, situate at Duchy Chambers, 4
Clarence Street in the City of Manchester,
England, or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the
said Order. Thursday, the 15th day of
October. 1914, at 11 o’clock in the forenoon
at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 29th day of May, 1914.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
NOTE. —The said Samuel Myles settled
in Adelaide about seventy years ago. and
is believed to have been married there. There
is a legacy under the will of Samuel Burgess,
deceased, a share in which is payable to him
or his issue.
To JAMES BILLING, formerly of Auck-
land District, New Zealand, but last
heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of his
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G..
Chief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of The Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned on or before
the 31st day of October, 1914, your claim to
part of the estate of Joseph Billing, late
of Waihopo, Auckland, Gumdigger, de-
ceased, who died on the 3rd day of March.
1914, intestate, failing which such estate
will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto, disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this first day of
July. 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Sgttffig
Let the Motor
pump your
Tyras with
the Mayo
Pump.
No auto owner
will continue using
a back-breaking
hand puriip after
once being shown
this device. With this pum'p tyres easily can he
kept up to pressure at all times.' Hence full mile-
SLge. service will be obtained which will result
in a saving of 25% in the tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and screw
pump in -its place. Start the motor and your
tyre is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes. Just watch the gauge, it
tells the exact pressure.
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO.,
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists: CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, N.Z,
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PULE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free. Under
plain cover.
On Sale by all Druggists, .Chemists and 9tor? y
keepers throughout the States.


Itching Scalps
Dandruff and
Falling Hair
e-'v
1
Ml
Successfully
Treated with
Guticura Soap
And Cuticura Ointment. Directions:
Make a parting and rub gently with
Cuticura Ointment. Continue until
whole scalp has been gone over.
Next morning shampoo with Cuti-
cura Soap. Shampoos alone may
be used as often as agreeable, but
once or twice a month is generally
sufficient for women’s hair.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment, sold everywhere.
Liberal sample of each, with 32-page book, sent post-
free. Address R. Towns &Co , Sydney, N. S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
à
Carters
Kittle•
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill. Fmall Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Most Diseases are
Caused by Microbes
and the microbes produce fermentation
and decay. To cure the disease it is
only necessary to kill the microbes. The
merits of
RADAM’S
Microbe Killer
are well known all over America, in the
East, Canada. England, Europe and
Australia. Write for a booklet to any
of our Agents, who will mail you an
interesting story on the origin and dis-
covery of IJadam's Microbe Killer.
Distributing Agents —
NEW ZEALAND—MaIcoIm & Grigs, 78
Bond Street, Dunedin.
QUEENSLAND —George Gougli & Son,
240 Albert Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Cocking & Co,
Ltd., Topham Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—W. W. Dobson,
Agnes Street, Beaconsfield, Fremantle.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Cromack & Co.,
Royal Exchange Offices, Bridge Street,
Sydney.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA—Duerdin &
Sainsbury, 349 Flinders Lane.
Ask your Chemist, ask your Storekeeper
for Radam’s Microbe Killer. It is your
remedy medicine for every ailment.
f f
CARBIDE
99
Ask for
“PERNIX,”
i and see that
you get it. with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Drum.
Addresses of Merchants distributin'.'' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
AMERICAN INGOT
IRON CULVERTS.
Every month new users of the Corrugated Culvert are
proving the advantages gained by its use.
This illustration shows how easy it is to put together on the job.
-
m
■
1
I-1 §1 s I -
as
y^V-
Particulars of Sizes from I2in. to 84in. from the Sole Agents—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. Ltd.
535 Kent Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
4
Erf
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of-over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
Tf»EN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, VV.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
á
â
ä
i|Do You Long fora Full Moustache?
Well, it would cer-
tainly improve your
a p*p ear ance. But
there’s no need to
despair—
USE CAPILLARINE.
A splendid preparation which develops the hair growth in a wonderful way. 30
years on the market has proved its merit. Never fails—cannot be detected—does
not injure the skin. Hundreds have proved it—whv not you?
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG AITREN,
654 George Street, Sydney-
Established 36 Years.
%NYAPI JANOs
FOR CONSTIPATION
Such mnor troubles as Constipation, Torpid Liver, Biliousness,
Disordered Digestion and Hemorrhoids are quickly dissipated by
Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water. Its continued use will also
purge the blood of Gout and Rheumatism, and ensure a clear com-
plex on. A bottle is small in cost and contains many doses. All
chemists sell it.
The Inky Way.
“Moana”: The Tiniani Herald, one of the leading
papers of Canterbury (M.L.) has just passed the 1 All-
year mark. There were only 150 houses in Timaru,
the port of South Canterbury, when the paper
first came forth in search of the lengthy auction advt.
and the In Memoriam notice, so news was scarce and
the first issue was mostly a lengthy complaint about
the inconvenience caused by horses and goats being
tethered in the streets. Timaru is now a flourishing
place and Canterbury’s second town, ranking next to
Christchurch. Edward Wakefield was one of the
early editors of the Timaru Herald, and did a great
deal towards bringing the paper into prominence.
* * * *
W. 11. Munro, well known in Maoriland on the
business side of the Inky Way, went the way of all
flesh and fish and grass at Christchurch (pronounced
Cheh) the other day. He was advertising manager
there for Gordon and Goteh when the man with the
scythe got him suddenly with the help of heart
failure. For several years he had charge of the
Timaru Post, and he was the first manager of the
Dominion when it started to whoop in Wellington
for the big landowner and that fleeing innocent,
Capital. He was 55 when the sand ran out.
* * * *
An ancient wayfarer shuffled.off the Inky Way at
Christchurch (M.L.) recently. That was T. G.
Wright, who was born in Fogland 82 years ago, and
trained as a comp, in London. Later, he joined the
Navy, feyvol on the China coast and at the Crimea,
being present at the trouble of Sevastopol. He was
attached to the medical stores dept., and came into
touch with Florence Nightingale, some of his most
treasured possessions in recent years being orders
for stores signed by that lady. On leaving the Navy
lie went to Maoriland, and became a comp , first on
the Lyttelton Times, at Christchurch, then on the
Dunedin Star. Subsequently he drifted back to
Christchurch, and became a reader on the Press,
holding down the job for nearlv 40 rears.
**' * *
The Maoriland Federation of Labor (the lied Feds.)
has received another wallop. One Stuart Dixon,
president of the Aliners’ Union, Huntly, recently read
in its official mouthpiece. The Worker, that he rvas
a “scab organiser ’ employed to get scabs for the
owners of northern mines. The aggrieved party
dragged the paper before a Judge and jury, and
demanded £lOOO from defendants on the ground
that he had been libelled as a traitor to the cause
of the workers and a dishonorable person to be
accursed and reviled, or legal jargoa for the same
thing. Defendants answered that the words were not
intended to mean that Dixon was a traitor and dis-
honorable. This suited Dixon's book. He produced
The Worker's published definition of a scab. It
read thus: “When God finished the rattlesnake, the
toad and the vampire, lie had some awful substance
left, with which he made the scab. Where other
people had a heart the scab carried a tumor of rotten
principles. Judas Iscariot was a gentleman com-
pared with a scab, lie had enough character to hang
himself, and a scab had not.” The jury reckoned a
verdict for £lOOO and costs would make a reasonable
ending of the argument.
* * * *
“W.”: The decision of the South Aus. Government
to estabish a Hansard and do its own reporting will
deprive the Adelaide Advertiser and Register of a
useful bit of revenue. Many years ago an inch of
Hansard was as profitable as an inch of advertise-
ment, and there were a good many inches, especiallv
in the paper whose year it was to do the Assembly.
(They took if turn and turn about to report Assembly
and Council.) The price has been cut since then,
however, and the Hansard contract is not what it
used to be, though it is still pretty good. Daily-
paper reporters will welcome the change, as the work
was strenuous and no extra pay was given for it.
The chances are an attempt will be made to reduce
staffs, but unless conditions have altered since I
Pushed a pen in the Holy City that should not be
possible. By the way, the honorariums offered for the
new Hansard men are not particularly gorgeous—
£4so for the leader, £4OO for assistant leader, and
£350 for the others —but they are better, than the
papers had to pay under the contract.
* * * *
“Senior”: Another instance is added to the heap
of proof that Labor men regard other Labor men
as unfit to produce Labor papers. This new instance
is supplied by the selection of K. H. C'oombe, as edi-
tor of the Adelaide Daily Herald, in succession to
A. C. Pratt. The latter was never a violent Labor
partisan, but at least he had never actually opposed
Labor, and he had been employed on the paper and
on other metropolitan dailies. Coombe, on the other
hand, had sat in Parliament as a Liberal, and after-
wards as an Independent, and had held office in one
of the Peake (Liberal) Governments. His journal-
istic experience was mostly gained on the Bunyip, a
little paper which creeps out sometimes at Gawler
(S.A.).
* * * *
G. Iv. Chesterton contributes an article to the
New Witness in vehement laudation of Will Dyson,
whose second book of Daily Herald cartoons has
occasioned an even more serious flutter than the first
series. “The issue of this book.” says Chesterton,
“is far more important than the opening of the
Royal Academy. Dyson is a man of genius.... Dyson
is like a man drawing a curtain, letting in white.'un-
expected morning on faces long falsified by firelight
or candles.”
* * * *
At the moment when Sydney dailies were screech-
ing about the number of homes they went into and
didn’t leave instantly as lunch wraps, the Times and
Daily Telegraph in London were bombarding each
other every morning with columns of figures, affi-
davits of accountants and certificates of chartered
experts. Since it came down to a penny the Times
is said to have cut deep into the circulation of the
Telegraph and the Morning Post, largely on account
of its splendid foreign news service." Before it
became a mere penn’orth nobody ever saw the Times
lying about loose. Every purchaser folded it up care-
fully and took it home. Now you can pick it up in
the 'buses just as easily as if it were a ha’penny Star.
THE QUERY ?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black (Edinburgh) has just' published Professor
Eucken’s latest book; it is entitled “Can \I e
Still Be Christians?’-’-- —News item.
Can ire still be Christians? Rudolph Eucken asks;
Safest, of professions-—easiest. of tasks!
Nothing half so simple to the modern man —
Can we still be Christians? Certainly we can!
Innocent Professor! Strange, he doesn’t know
We must all be Christians if we want a show:
Even Solly Isaacs—finding that it pays--
Poses "as a Christian Scotsman in these latter days.
Solly goes to Loandon, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth ;
Any Gentile city round about the earth;
Calls himself Macpherson, Stuart, Forbes or Ross,
And upon his watch-chain wears a heavy cross.
Solly weds a Gentile; revels in roast pig;
At the Gentile's whisky takes a hearty swig.
Can he be a Christian, this backsliding .lew?
Quickly comes the answer: “Ay, and do one, too!”
Can we. still be Christians? Ask the wily Pong.
Learn “all sainee Clistian” doesn’t take him long!
Cut away the pigtail; don the breeks and coat ;
“Gettiun lillee white gal—gettiun lillee vote.”
Pong’s a firm believer in nine million gods;
Three or four more added won’t make any odds!
Pong, at church on Sunday, with his Bible scored'
At the snuffle verses, kow-tows to the Lord !
Can we. still be Christians? Well, now, what is
wrong?
We can still pretend that Woman, Wine and Song
Are the deadly sins that pagan souls will kill.
Can we still be Christians? Yes, indeed —and will!
N.S.W.
THE WOWSER.


GUNS
of Quality
arid Stability.
1
ISAAC HOLLIS 8 SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge. ton levor. bar action. oOin, real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding looks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol w^limt^stodc.
>. to 7 41 b.
Guaranteed
£6 12s . 6d
a m
m
-71
Snrar
t
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 3.0i.n. barrels,
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about b. ;
Greener cross-bolt.
of IG-gauge, about Gilb.
DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
L o
*54?
p
]
TTTTBfiSf^
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
** The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lover, 60-in oh Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke.
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—l2-gauge, about 71b.; 10-gauge, about 011 b. Delivered,
£3 15 -
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
AH kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
%
i
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN, 1
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist baijijels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross Bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71h., Patent fore end. TOST FREE ( £4 4s.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
THE BEST HOUSE FOR ALE
SHOOTING REQUISITES.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney
and at Hunter Street,
Newcastle.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALEB,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St. f
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 18SS by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
[2
p
LOCAL
$
..!v <
ii
PATRIOTISM
-Your
Aim? e
Then have a JHGT
|% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
T
1
T
A Natural Remedy
§■! 1
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Frujt Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK 'OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. llowtoGktßicii, lsposted. Dr. Lamar-
■iinic's SiiiKNT Friesu, 13 Od. Ned Donnelly's Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare booU by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
Including Nana, Is Od each, posted. Educating thk
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Madf, Easy, is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bull's Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/0.
Joys of Life, Is Od. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop llandybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert. Wales, 1/3.
Thicks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Od. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s Od. Aust. Min bus’ G uidk. (simple tests for minerals),
3s Od. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, 13 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9u. Will Power. (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is Od. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Pr actical Gas and
Oh. Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art ok -Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Od.
God and My Neighbor, Od. Britain fop. the
British, Od. How to Rf.ad Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases oe Horses,
1 s 3(1. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
tND Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s Gd. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is On.
£§
B
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACISB
THE POPULAH “ PLAIN HOME TAT.K.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FIIEK FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds oi young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
£«- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.
gipsy fortune telling cards-love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. Gam linens’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, 13 3d.
liiat Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Ifc. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready'Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is .d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ llandybook, Is 3<l
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. llow McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannax s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virilf. Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these priees Dost Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDKA OF MY STOCK CAN
KG GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Makk Ur, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. NkwTricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Oi,d Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. l)u. Milford’s Mid-
wipe's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions op the
Kino, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
.Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, Sd posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciikvasse’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
'Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Mac fa oden's Works, all at os pos'ed.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife's Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 Ulus., leather
bound, my price, las post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
niece) Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO DAY.


A UNIVERSAL FAVORITE
Miss Lizette Parkes is an Australasian favorite. Her career is a
triumph of both beauty and brains. Her stage career has been a singularly
versatile and brilliant one. In the following letter Miss Lizette Parkes
points the way to perfect freedom from Coughs and Colds to all sufferers
from chest complaints:
M
w
I
M ins
LIZETTE
PARKES
(from a photo.).
SHELDON DRUG CO.,
LTD., SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —I am
writing to tell you
wliat a strong advocate
I am of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. It is
the only thing that
does me any good when
I have a bad cold or
cough, or when my
throat feels sore or
strained. During the
past two years I have
used it, on numerous
occasions, and always
with the best results.
It is an excellent
remedy, and I never
feel safe to start on a
trip without having a
bottle of it in my bag.
With very best wishes
for “New Discovery,”
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) LIZETTE PAHKES.
THE RELIABLE REMEDY
for COUGHS AND COLDS.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled prepara-
tion for the treatment of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs,
including Influenza, Bronchitis, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarse-
ness, Difficult Respiration and Pains in the Chest. When used according to
directions is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle
guaranteed. Price 1/6 and 6/-
D« Sheldon s|
New Discovery
s
m*
Lunch in
the Office
can be made much more enjoyable, more
appetising and more nourishing if it is com-
prised of nice, thin sandwiches made of
“REX”
I |f
* 8!
I&EM
J o^ e9 \*jStSn\vK %<
I
«
Luncheon Cheese
This is the ideal mid-day food. It is easily digested, strengthens the system
and fits you for a strenuous afternoon. It is more economical, too. You
can make enough “Rex” Luncheon Cheese sandwiches at half your usual
lunch expense, and you get more benefit; purer, healthier, more appetising
food. Make a practice of finishing a meal with “Rex” Luncheon Cheese and
Crackers. You’ll never be troubled with indigestion if you do. Try “Rex”
to-day.
PROCURABLE AT ALL GROCERS
In soz. decorated tins and Porcelain jars—the latter may be made to
serve several useful purposes, when emptied.
OTHER “ REX” PRODUCTS—
PROCURABLE AT ALL GROCERS:
“REX” CANNED DELICACIES:
Ham Pate, Jib. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, Jib. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins.
Pork and Beans, ljlb. tins,
Pigs’ Peet, in Jelly, lib. tins,
Bunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Buncheon Cheese, soz. tins and
porcelain jars, and
“Rex” Brand Lard for Cooking Pur-
poses, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS
Procurable at all Grocers, Small Good
Shops and Carts:—
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
ã
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS and BACONS.
Packers of “REX” DELICACIES,
Makers of “REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS.
The Sentimental Bloke.
VIII.—THE PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WOT’S in a name?'’ she ses Vn’
then she sighs,
An’ clasps ’er little ’ands, an’
rolls ’er eyes.
A rose, she ses, “be any other name
W ould smell the same.
< >h, w erefore art you Itomeo, young sir?
( huck yer ole pot, an’ change yer moniker I”
I)oreen an me, we bin to see a show—-
Ihe swell two-dollar touch. Bong-tong, veh
know.
A chair apiece, wif velvit on the seat;
A slap-up treat.
lhe drarmer’s writ be Shakspeare, years ago,
About a barmy goat called llomeo.
Lady, be yonder moon I swear!’’ ses ’e.
■'u then ’e climbs up on the balkiney;
An there they smooge a treat, wif pretty
words,
Like two love-birds.
I nudge Doreen. She whispers, “Ain’t it
grand !”
Lr eyes is shinin’, an’ I squeeze ’er ’and.
*
“Wot’s in a name?” she ses. ’Strutli, I
dunno.
Lillo is jist as good as Borneo.
She may be Juli-er or Juli-et—•
E loves ’er yet.
I! she’s the tart ’e wants, then she’s ’is
queen,
Names never count But, nr, I like “Dor-
een !”
A sweeter, dearer sound I never ’card;
Thor’s music ’angs around that little word.
Doreen !.. . .But wot was (his I starts to say
About the play?
I m off me beat. But when a bloke’s in love
’ls thorts turns ’er way, like a ’omin’ dove.
'l’liis Borneo ’e’s lurkin’ wif a crew—
A dead tough crowd o’ crooks —called Mon-
tague.
"Is diner’s push—Avot’s nicknamed Capulet—
They ’as ’em set.
Fair narks they are, jist like (hem back-
street clicks,
Ixcep’ they lights Avif skewers ’stid o’ bricks.
Wot’s in a name? Wot’s in a string o’
words ?
They scraps, in ole Verona Avif the’r swords,
An’ never give a bloke a stray dog’s chance,
An’ that’s Bomance.
But when they deals it out wif bricks an’
boots
In Little Lon., they’re loav, degraded broots.
Wot’s jist plain stoush wif us, right ’ere, to-
day,
Ts “vallcr” if yer fur enough away-.
Some time, some Avriter bloke will do the
trick
Wif Ginger Mick,
Of Spadger’s Lane. ’E’ll be a Borneo,
When ’e’s bin dead five ’undred years or so.
Fair•'Juli-et, slie gives ’er boy the tip.
Ses she: “Don’t sling that croAvd o’ mine no
lip;
An’, if you run agin a Capulet,
•list do a get.”
’E swears ’e’s done Avif lash; ’e’ll chuck it
clean.
(Same as I done Avhen I first met Doreen.)
They smooge some more at that. Ar, strike
me blue!
It gimme Joes to sit an’ watch them tAvo.
’E’d break aAvay an’ start to say good-bye,
-Vn’ then she’d sigh.
“Oav, 80-me-o!” an’ git a strangle-holt.
An’ ’ang around ’im like she feared ’e’d bolt.
Ncx’ day ’e words a gorspil cove about
V secrit Aveddin’ ; an’ they plan it out.
’E spouts a piece about ’oav ’e’s beAvitched;
Then they git ’itched....
Noaa% ’ere’s the place Avliere I fair git the
pip!
She’s ’is fer keeps, an’ yet ’e lets ’er slip !
Ar! but ’e makes me sick! A fair gazob!
’E’s jist the glarse.v on the soulful sob.
’E’ll sigh, an’ spruik, an’ ’oavl a love-sick voav
(The silly coav!)
But Avhen ’e’s got ’er, spliced an’ on the
straight,
’E crools the pitch, an’ tries to kid it’s Fate.
Aw, Fate me foot! Instid of slopin’ soon
As ’e AA 7 as Aved, off on ’is ’oneymoon,
’lm an’ ’is cobber, called Mick Curio,
They ’ave to go
-Vn’ mix it Avif that push o’ Capulets.
They looks fer trouble ; an’ it’s Avot they gets.
A tug named Tyball (cousin to the skirt)
Sprags ’em, an’ makes a start to sling off
dirt.
Nex’ minnit there’s a reel ole ding-dong go—
’Arf round or so.
Mick Curio, ’e gits it in the neck.
“Ah, rats!” ’e ses, an’ ] asses in ’is check.
Quite natchril, Borneo gits Avet as ’ell.
“It’s me or you!” ’e ’oavls. an’ Avif a yell
Flunks Tyball through the gizzard Avif ’is
sword.
’Oio I ongcored!
“Put in the boot!” I ses. “Put in the boot!”
“’Ush !” ses Doreen... .“Shame!” ses some
silly coot.
Then Borneo, ’e dunno wot to do.
The cops git busy, like they allwiz do,
-Vn’ nose around, until ’e gits blue funk,
An’ does a bunk.
They Avants ’is tart to Aved some other guy.
“Ah. strike !” she ses. “I Avisht that I could
die!”
Xoav. this ’ere gorspil bloke’s a fair slireAA 7 -
’ead.
Ses ’e, “I’ll dope yell, so they’ll think yer
dead.”
(I tips ’e Avas a cunnin’ sort, Avot knoo
A thing or tAvo.)
She takes ’is knock-out drops up in ’er room ;
They think she’s snuffed, an’ plant ’er in ’er
tomb.
Then tilings gits mixed a treat an’ starts to
Avhirl.
’Ere’s Borneo comes back, an’ finds ’is girl
Tucked in ’er little coffing, cold an’ stiff
An’ in a jiff r
’E SAvallers lysol. throws a fancy fit,
'End over turkey, an’ ’is soul ’as flit.
Then Juli-et Avakes up an sees im there,
Turns on the water-Avorks an’ tears ’er air.
“Dear love,” she ses, "I cannot live alone .
An’, Avif a moan,
She grabs ’is little knife, an’ ends er cares.
“Peanuts or lollies !” ses a boy upstairs.
VICTORIA.
C. J. DENNIS.
The Interfering Boss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TT7 E are enjoined to do at least one
\ \ good deed daily, and the idea is
T T excellent in principle, but not
always so satisfactory in practice.
Take Bannerman’s good deed. Bannerman
looked into an old hut at Scotchman’s, seek-
ing a lost cow, and discovered Billy Bull
hanging by his neck to a rafter. Bannerman
promptly cut the rope, and Billy Bull fell to
the floor, breaking a small bone in his leg.
It now became Bannerman’s duty to procure
a trap and cart Bull to cover. Bull, having
no home of iiis own, was taken to Banner-
man’s. Meanwhile the cow, which had
bogged in Wee Creek, was suffocated. Bau-
nerman got a doctor to Billy Bull, and had
the broken leg timbered at his own expense,
the doctor declining to act on a written
guarantee from the patient, mainly because
Bull was a notoriously incompetent and in-
active person. The Bannermans nursed and
fed Billy Bull, impressed to some extent by
Billy’s argument.
“(Joz why?” said Billy, “if the boss didn’t
go an’ spile me bangin’ I wouldn’t ha’ bin
up agin it no more. 1 wouldn’t ’av’ ’ad t’
work, an’ I Vouldn’t ha’ wanted fer nothink,
includin’ beer. Moreover, the boss lie broke
me leg, an’ spoilt me rope.”
When Bull could limp about, Bannerman
gave him half a sovereign, and bade him a
touching farewell. But Bull went no far-
ther than the pub at Scotchman’s; after
which he returned as full as a blown bal-
loon, and sat in Bannerman’s kitchen, and
wept and wailed, bemoaning his unhappy
lot in being still in a weary world, a world
of wickedness and deceit, that exacted so
much from a wretched man endowed with
no gifts for work.
“1 was orl right,” Billy snivelled, “I was
fair ’arf-way out iv it when a thoughtless
feller lays ’old an’ drags me back into a
sphere iv sin an’ sorrer an’ sufferin’, sufferin’
an’ sin an’ sorrer. Lord forgive ’im!”
Eventually Bannerman had to throw Bull
off his property, advising him at the same
time that if he reappeared he would be liable
to attack. Billy was back next day, arguing
over the fence, while Bannerman thinned his
turnips. “You brought it on yerself,” he
said. “Here was me willin’ an’ eager t’ die,
an’ more ’n ’arf done fer, an’ you goes an’
spiles it all. Bringin’ me inter the world
agin makes you more or less me father in a
manner iv speakin’. That bein’ so, it’s on’y
right fer you t’ give me a shillin’ now an’
agin, also bed an’ board, seein’ I ain’t got
the courage t’ hang niescif no more, likewise
me rope spoilt.”
Bannerman told him to “get.” “Oh, very
well,” Mr. Bull replied ; “under them circum-
stances it’s me dooty t’ tell the people here-
abouts what you done. I ain’t what’s
known ez pop’lar in this district, an’ if the
people knowed, they’d maybe make it pretty
warm for yeh.”
“What the devil have I done?” thundered
Bannernjan.
“You stopped me from bangin’ meself,
Mr. Bannerman, you know you did, an’
what you ain’t been game t’ tell I’ll have ter
if you’re goin’ t’ allow a man t’ thirst an’
hunger in a world what yeh Utterly dragged
him back inter regardless iv his personal
feelin’s.”
Bannerman saw the force of the argu-
ment. For three years Scotchman’s had
been very anxious to be rid of Billy Bull,
who was reckoned in with rabbits, pleuro
and codlin moth, and if Scotchman’s knew
that the continuance of the infliction was
due to a rash act on Bannerman’s part,
Bannerman would certainly come in for
public dislike. Bannerman capitulated; ho
kept Billy Bull loafing round the farm for
another month, at the end of which time
Billy’s complaints had become unbearable.
“It’s sad, boss,” Billy would say through
his tears and beers, “but I kin never forgive
yeh, never. Here I might ha’ bin bedded
down fer good, an’ et peace with me Maker,
but fer your insolent interference. All that
I suffer an’ endoor I owe t’ you. Yorter be
ashamed iv yerself—ashamed t’ look ver vic-
tim in the face.” .
It was after a bitter complaint of this sort
lasting over two hours that Bannerman again
kicked Bull into the night, telling him to do
his damnedest. Billy did. He told all
Scotchman’s that when he was on the point
of being well and truly hanged, Bannerman
had cut him down. He appealed to Scotch-
man’s to say whether in such circumstances
he had not a moral, lawful and holy claim
upon Bannerman. Scotchman’s was wild
with indignation; it held that Bannerman
would be served right if visited with the
whole upkeep of Bull. Bannerman found
himself something of a pariah. When Bull
went to sleep in Cruden’s fowlhouse, Cruden
called and insisted on Bannerman removing
his deadbeat. Bannerman denied posses-
sion ; Cruden used coarse words, and there
was a fight.
The thing became utterly unbearable, and
one day, when Billy put in an appearance at
the garden fence with his dolorous complain-
ings, Bannerman turned on him with great
bitterness. “Blast yer eyes, I ain’t stopping
you from hanging’ yourself now, am I?”
“No,” replied Bull, “but you cut me rope.”
Bannerman went straight to the stable. _ He
returned immediately, with a neat coil of
half-inch Manila cord. He threw it at Billy.
“Good day,” he said. Billy took up the rope,
and examined it carefully. “It ain’t ez good
ez me own,” he said, “but I s’pose it’ll do.”
Then he went away. Bannerman watched
him go into the old hut. Then he sat on
the fence for two hours to warn off any
casual resident who might have entered the
hut and interfered with Billy’s execution.
Bannerman did not find the body. He had
washed his hands of Billy. But at the town-
ship pub that night he announced that all
was well —Billy Bull had hanged himself
again. However, there were differences of
opinion—Pope had seen Billy going towards
Hill End. leading a bay mare on a Manila
rope. The bay mare was Baunemian’s. It
never returned.
EDDYSON.


Doi\ t Neglect Your Skin
}
ODD C
Jlijl
Y
Rub ZAM-BUK In, and Avoid
All Winter Skin Troubles.
The skin is one of the most sensitive parts
of the human body; and because it is also the
most exposed to injury and disease, it ought
to get more attention than most people think
is necessary.
A sudden chill, dirt in a cold-crack or small
abrasion, and skin-weaknesses are all likely
to lead to trouble. Neglected chaftngs,
“chaps,” chilblains, cold-sores, or
cuts may also cause more serious
disease in the shape of festering
wounds, ulcers or itching sores, and
even chronic eczema is often trace-
able to neglect in the early stages of
a simple affection.
Zam-Buk is the ideal application
for the skin at this season.
No ordinary ointments or salves,
concocted from rancid animal fats or
mineral irritants, can do for the
skin what Zam-Buk does. Such
coarse and harmful preparations
never give lasting satisfaction—the
sort that is undoubtedly got from
rubbing in Zam-Buk.
Smearing the skin with Zam-Buk has an almost instantaneous
cleansing and restorative effect. So pure are the juices in Zam-Buk
that they sink deep into the pores, permeating all the minute
“machinery” of the tissue, and they just go to work right away to
end the trouble thoroughly.
No skin looks so well —or is, in fact, so soft, sound and healthy
throughout—as the skin that has had frequent dressings of Zam-Buk.
And this perfection is more than “skin-deep,” seeing that a healthy
skin exerts a wholesome influence upon the rest of the body. The
Zam-Buk treatment can reasonably claim to be a revival of one of the
LOST ARTS of the old Grecian days, when proper care of the skin was
universal.
THE EVER-READY HOME HEALER.
Zam-Buk is excellent for eczema, ulcers, ringworm, bad legs, rashes, erup-
tions, pimples, sores, scabs, scales, piles, pains, swellings, chapped hands, sore
faces, cold sores, chilblains, cuts, burns, festerings, gatherings, poisoned wounds,
children’s sores, and injured and diseased, irritated, inflamed and unhealthy
conditions of the skin. Of all chemists and stores at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot (3/6
holds nearly
four times
the Is. 6d.) ;
or post free
from the Sole
P r oprietors,
C. E. Fulford
(Austral-
asia), Ltd.,
3 9 Pitt
St., Sydney.
ä
‘Rati IT m.’»
A Remarkable Remedy.
Few medicines have met with more favor or accomplished more good than
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
It has relieved more pain and suffering and saved the lives of more people
than any other preparation in use. One or two doses of it is enough to relieve
an ordinary attack of colic or diarrhoea. It has been used in many epidemicsof
dysentery with perfect success.
It relieves bowel complaints in their most severe forms and is especially valu-
able for diarrhoea and summer complaint in children.
I-I—
-m
?ul
rii
ttrt-m
/f
mt^smtpgpsi
<it
'BY6<g
wmSm
m
"Amnnv' Ammberwim 1
(COPvPIOrtTtO)
Granny’s Talk To
Young Mothers.
“Few young mothers realise the extent to which a cold lowers the system
and makes it susceptible to contagious diseases. It has been proven that
the majority of diseases arise from germs, but it is not widely known that
a healthy system will repel their attacks.
Mothers should never allow a cold to run for twenty-four hours without
attention. If this is made a rule there will be less sickness for young
mothers to worry over.
A good reliable medicine for coughs, colds, croup and bronchitis should
always be kept in the home where there are children. You may say that
you have no confidence in cough medicines, but that is because you have
never tried
fUMBERLAim
COUGH BEMEBT E#
This medicine is thoroughly reliable and has stood the test of nearly half a
century. No, it will not hurt the children—there is nothing in it that would
even injure the baby.”
7 'kjCLjLtJL
Maud Allan—Dancing!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chopin’s Funeral March.
THE tumble of the grief-dishevelled
tresses;
The stage-lit whiteness of the flowing
arms,
Whose startling white the black mantilla
stresses;
The watching crowd; the music’s paining
charms ;
The changing lights; the sage-green folded
drapings. . ..
And Love goes mourning ’mid her scented
hair,
Since Death, from whom can be no sweet
escapings,
Bereaves her of the joys she found so fair.
There is no gladness n0w.... in mute
despair,
Love. .. .stricken... .lonely. .. .crouches ’mid
her hair!
Beethoven’s “Contre Tanze-Bacchanai..”
Melodious flutings swoon along the glade.
Where golden sunlight dapples through the
leaves
Or dryad-peopled oaks; fresh-garnered
sheaves
Of corn stand round, while Grecian youth
and maid
Come dancing through the fields, with preci-
ous fare
Of purple grapes, whose juices runnel down
Their skin’s bright silver. Some with vine-
leaf crown,
And crimson poppies flaming in their hair;
Others with ivy garlands, primrose decked,
And all with linked hands, laughing-eyed and
gay,
Knowing no care 011 this their festal day.
But hark ! A while the merriment is checked,
And then bursts out in madder, merrier-
wise,
As Bacchus and his kin, with tipsy song,
Drive from the forest to the revelries,
And all is one glad frolic and wild joy,
Led by the plump-limbed, pleasure-loving,
laughing, drunken boy!
Mendelssohn’s Spring Song.
The flappers from the Sunday-school cut
loose,.
Each naughty in her would-be-naughty way;
The slack-chinned curate frisking a vamoose,
What time he lisps a risque rondelay ;
The school-marm, chucking spectacles aside,
And caring not a bit how bold she be ;
The tune beloved of every suburb bride ;
The still-in-’teens falsetto jollity,
And all I feel is. .. .“Lord, if I were mad,
Just wouldn’t Maud and I get pagan glad !”
Schubert-Liszt’s “Am Meer.”
The slapping waves are drowsing us. My
head
Lies cradled in your lap, and, through my
hair.
Your long, white fingers, lotus-lulling, stray :
We do not speak lest too much might be said
And lips blurt, out the thing we do not dare,
Else Dreams were lost in Love’s delicious
yea,
And so we shell —the lanping waters croon
Such peace, such rest, this golden afternoon.
Grieg’s Dance of The Gnomes in “Peer
Gynt.”
It scarce is moonlight, for the moon is hid
Behind the cloud-veiled trappings of the sky,
And oozes sickly glances that forbid
That aught but human fear shall now espy
The frolics of these earth-folk. So they
dance
In phantom rout; they leap and leer and
prance
And pour revilings on a world so wise,
It lulls itself with new, anaemic lies,
And will not give them credence. Hush!
they hear
A trampling foot come clumsing down the
vale!
Quick as an eyelid’s wink they disappear !
The moon smiles sadly, widow-wan and pale!
Bubinstein’s “Bomance.”
I did not hear the tempest in the trees,
I did-not heed the breakers on the reef:
This seemed to me the soughing of the breeze,
'Pi.oa segfned to me the undersong of grief
Which runs through lovely moments. But I
knew
That one was near me and that one was you ;
If flame leaped un from Hell, small care was
mine;
We two would glad be fuel to its lust.. .
And then you came! Ah me. could I divine
That love was ashes and that hopes were
dust?
MAORI!. AND.
BERNARS INGLERY.
Wharf-laborers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHETHER wharf-laborers as a class
are more lurid than other casual
workers I don’t know, but it is my
opinion that the man who lumps cargo can
hold his own against any other. Language
is not a gift, but he can’t help himself.
If you put a padlock on his lips and gave
his mind a bath, he’d still think in swear
words. Not that he does think. He talks,
but shifting wool and wheat doesn’t give
him any exercise in mentality. His brain
acts sheep-like, following the lead of others,
and in consequence the tongue-noise he puts
in is an iteration which is only varied in
frills and embroideries of obscenity. This
incessant talk is not as foolish as it sounds;
it is how he dodges sweating.
But to hear a wharf-laborer at his best
you require to sleep near a hatch on a pas-
senger boat the night before she leaves port.
I’ve done so on various occasions, and it
has interested me so much that last night I
switched on the light and made a verbatim
report of what I heard. Of course, in
setting it down here, I’ve left spaces, re-
presenting lingua incognita. You can fill
th:m in yourself if you know how, only
you must understand that the real language
was worse.
First you are awakened by a terrific
bumping down of the hatch boards, and then
comes the maddening clatter of the winch
being tested, accompanied by the clang of
iron bars being thrown about over your head.
There is a terrible amount of language also,
but the noise of the winch and the bars
are so great that it even drowns a wharf-
laborer’s stentorian voice. Waking from
one’s sleep it strikes right into one’s nerves
and lifts the roof from your head.
A wharf-laborer is so accustomed to shout-
ing so as to be heard above the din of
winches that he keeps it up all the time.
Immediately the hellish noise subsides, a
raucous voice demands, “Where’s my bl—”
Then it stops. It. seems to remember that
there are passengers aboard. There is a
little sense of decency behind that voice,
ii nas probably been well brought up—
had a mother, or some good female influ-
ence. It continued: “ blessed ’ookV”
In Heaven’s. Book there must be recorded
the ‘noble restraint of that laborer. I
am sure St. Peter will remember that
man and pass him in. It will be recorded
that once in his lifetime he put a curb
on his tongue and left unsaid the thing that
he 'set out to say. I am glad I heard it.
It is the only time I’ve ever heard a wharf-
laborer use a mild adjective.
“Anybody seen Bill’s ’ook?” roared
out a man with a voice like a bull and no
respect for passengers.
Then a dozen bull voices roared: “Bill’s
’ook’s lost !” And there came a
noise of spitting.
Then one voice spoke—one which will
never leave my memory—an awful voice:
“The ’s gone an’ lost his
’ook.”
“W’y the doesn’t ’c look after
’is ’ookV” This voice was a common-
sense sort of voice. It is the voice of the
critic that you will mostly find in every
crowd —the Ited Page voice.
“Is it Bill’s ’ook wot’s well
lost?” asked a sympathetic voice.
“ silly ,” said a weak edition of
the Bed Page voice.
All the time about twenty men were chas-
ing round looking for Bill’s hook, instead of
working and getting the ship away up to
time. It occurred to me that Bill had lost
his hook on purpose. They all talked at
once on these occasions.
“Whose ’ook is this?”
Everybody came forward to identify it,
and then the bull voice rang out: “That's
not Bill’s ’ook.. That ’ook be-
longs to one of the s who voted for
overtime. |E’s well asleep be-
hind the wool bales.”
“Is this Bill’s ’ook?” from another
part of the hold.
Another scuttle of-all the wharf-laborers
to make another identification. And then
Bill spoke : “Yes, that’s my' ’ook.”
I felt sorry to notice Bill’s lapse. I am
sure that Bill must have loved a good woman
at one time or another of his life.
“Now we’d better get to work.” No doubt
this came from a ganger.
There was no excited rush to begin sweat-
ing, as I expected.
“Yes, we’d better well get to
work.”
Everybody began to reiterate “getting to
work,” just in the sheep-like way of wharf-
laborers. They might have got to work in
a few minutes, only for another voice. It
was the First Bed Page voice that said :
“Don’t well know ’ow we’ll well
stow that barley.”
“It’s a monkey’s puzzle,” said the
Second Bed Page voice.
“It’s a monkey’s —-
puzzle,” said the voice of Bill. (O Bill, and
the way that you must have been brought
up!) You could understand Bill. No doubt,
the Second Bed Page voice hadn’t expressed
the difficulty of stowing the barley suffi-
ciently well.
Then the Second Bed Page voice said:
“We’ll ’ave to well get round the - —-
stack and stow the stuff down that
wing.”
Then all the voices repeated: “Well ’ave
to well get round the stack
and stow the barley down that
wing.” It took five minutes (more or
less) to say it, as they didn’t say it in con-
cert.
I thought they would start work when
they had finished saying it, only someone
found one of them drinking a bottle of beer
behind some cases, and everybody had to com-
ment upon it. and then somebody _ said :
“Well, boys, let’s get to work,” and
when ever-ybody had repeated it as a neces-
sary formula before starting work, an officer-
sort of voice said : “Who the h —l stowed this
here?”
“Wasn’t me, sir,” replied an awful voice,
eonciliatinglv.
“Nor me, sir,” said the voice of Bill.
“Wasn’t any of. 11s, sir.”
“ ’Ow the could it be any [of
us, sir, when it’s wheat, and we’re stow-
ing barley, and we’re not started— —
work yet?”
“It was well done by the last ——
shift, sir.” said the Bed Page voice.
“It’s got no right here, anyway,” said
the officer voice, severely.
Then the Second Bed Page voice must
have grown sick of the sirring, or the inter-
ference of the officer voice. It said with a
spit:—
“Oh, shut yer nose.”
The First Bed Page voice did not seem to
think that this was expressed right. It
evidently knew that the meaning was, “Oh,
shut up, and don’t, poke. your nose into
things,” but it didn't take time to get it
clear. It said with a louder spit:—
“Oh, shut yer nose in yer —— mouth
and get to —— out of this yer.”
“And now let’s get to work,” said
the voice of Bill.
“ ’As enny son of a seen my
’ook?” asked the Second Bed Page voice.
“Enny one seen Jim’s ’ook?”
“Another ’s lost ’is —- ’ook.”
“W’y the ”
“Oh, ’ere’s ’is ’ook.”
“It’s orright, yer s. Jim’s got ’is
“And now lot’s get to work.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.


WESTINGHOUSE
(IVIORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
—
l i$m
m
m
m
The resistance due to the sliding
friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
98 per cent. Efficiency.
Made in units from l to 1030 h.p.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane. /
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
1
fIPiXKJfI
EH
A
BOILER
FLUID
Let Your BoSlerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way—and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior—if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap—-if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it.
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
| SOLE AGENTS—
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., South Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUM ELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AHP CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
REMINGTON
umc ;
*1SRp
mlHon*
the new
(Remlndton-
Smokele^s
Here is a new, lower priced Remington-UMC
smokeless shotgun shell—the “Remilion”. It’s
in the same family with “Mitro Club” and
“Arrow” but made for the man who needs to
consider price and reliability only, rather than
extreme refinements.
Ask your dealer for “Remilion”. Look for
the Red Ball on the box and be sure of fifty
years of ammunition-making experience back of your
purchase.
If your dealer cannot supply you, ask our represent-
ative to advise you where the Remington-UMC brand
can be obtained.
D _ D * D ' BRYANT, Australian Representative
KHHHiKHKniioume
sale by
leading
dealers
everywhere
The lone hand
II
'll
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6 cl
BETTER TO BE SURE,
THAN SCRRY
a M
s
f.Vri'.'v
vrfi!
1/
ti
&
I
'
S6S
m
K-V/S
.:•••'
S&i
50 TAPE
ECTIAMS PILLS
S 3
CM
Si
Kircmicr’s patent buiiu law
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS & JOINERS
If you wish to INCREASE YOUR PROFITS instil
KIRCHNER’S High-Speed
Woodworking Machines.
They are reliable, they give satisfaction. Send for
Catalogue, or ask their Representative to call on you.
Our many years’ experience is free at your disposal.
Save the Middleman’s Commission by dealing direct
with the Manufacturers,
KIRCHNER § CO., 32 Market Street, Sydney.
CASH OR TRRMS. ’Phone City 7091.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
imony
wit
each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/b.
:>V
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts llko a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O'U'l'S
PUMPS WATER
MY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RIFE 11 RAM
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to insta], no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, ,etc.
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.


PERTUSSIN
wA
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
GOUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Can be obtained at all Chemists.
« 1
©
m
WSBk
1
OSTER P,PE threading
tools
For the man who wants nothing but the
best—
THERE IS NO TURNING BACK OVER
THE FINISHED THREAD WITH AN
OSTER —the Dies open and the Stock is
instantly removed from the pipe by a
simple turn of a thumb screw.
Think what this advantage means over
Other styles. They possess other features,
too, which make them INDISPENSABLE
TO THE PROGRESSIVE SHOP.
Aaents: Call and see a demonstration, or write for booklet on “Pipe Threading.”
& LACY CO. LTD..
ineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY
*/
%
•ssr
r»ggaggsr-i
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
SBLTING
AgEK'lB-
- Hardie S Co.
Circular Quay
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Tangrye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines. -
Clayton & Stauttleworth Portable Steam
Engine.
Wolseley Crutching Plants.
m
Mnnro Handy Bagrgrer Chancntter.
DALCETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
1 1 ll lIIIIIIIBIIIIMI ■ Hill 111181 MU ■■■ n 111 ■in ■ fIIHMHII I IMII 111 111 !■ 111 1111 '
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc,, etc.
CLAYTON L SHUTTLE WORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Brills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing- Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
THE
J
m m
“-IbSS*
DALGETY * C9LT? N
“—AGENTS.—— .
å
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
Gall and Inspect Our Showroom.
The American Wrought Steel Split Pulley
First Made.
First in Every Particular.
Power Saver. Money Saver.
For “American” Steel Split Pulleys are original steel split pulleys;
their Inventor being first in the field, patented so many basic principles
of Steel Pulley construction that no other make has since been devised
approaching the “American” Pulley in simplicity and correctness of
design.
Made in sizes from 3in. diameter to 72in. diameter, and large
stocks carried by the Sole Agents:—
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CALI or WRITE FOR PAMPHLET, “CONCERNING PULLETS.” Ask for Price List.
Nat Semi-Diesel Oil Engines
MARINE OR STATIONARY.
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most simple and economical. No Valves, Timing Gear or Water Spray.
Some prices for Marine Outfits, complete with Reverse Gears, Shafts
and Propellers.
DELIVERY PROM STOCK:
7h.p., £135; 9h.p., £143; 12h.p., £168; 15h.p., £200; 20h.p., £255;
24h.p„ £300; 30h.p., £382; 40h.p., £5lO,
Sole Australian Agents s
Warburton, Franßi Ltd.
307 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
en
is
A notable achievement in engineering
science and sheep-shearing machine con-
struction.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable
with the Wolseley.
Lister duplicates rank as the standard
in spare parts.
mm
•mil
- GEDYE & CO.,
9-13 YOUNG STREET. SYDNEY.
U/ye BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
&/>e CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
S7>g AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In Other Words-
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker : H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide. Brisbane.
RACRAROCR
The Safest, Most Convenient & Most Economical High Explosive
will, owing to its expansive force—weight for weight—throw out more rock than any other explosive.
The Governments of the various Australian States and New Zealand have been and are large users of Rackarock, the N.S.W.
Railways alone having used in one year nearly 125 tons in deviation and duplication work.
We can supply in any size of cartridge or packing.
PROPRIETORS AND MANUFACTURERS—
tffl MS
•9
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
