

DEWAR’S MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. Car. WATKINS «SE- CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 ICent Street, Sydney,
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’“and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D'SI'C
' : - ™—
Head Office: 74
a
•ajjnainiuduiv |bwo»»N ajisoddc
Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
ĥ
ECOBA.RX.
MM
fjadleys Orient fjotel.
RICHARDSON’S
WINE and
SPIRIT STORES,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
BOTTLE, CASE or GALLON at Wholesale
Prica.
PIONEEf>
LEATHER BELTING
QITAIt.ANTKKD
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
MTTmiO
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
ħ
FIRE
RESISTING
siisrpfi
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HAN SE NS
h
ĥ
*>. INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
'
to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCAS'I LB
C
BECK’S LASER
- vT
\s<.
i
>, ggjggl-
nfir-l
tmm*
l>y - ~ ; '
Is the ideal Roofing for Australian conditions. It Is Just the old tried and proved
Malthoid with a coating or skip of asbestos. It is proof against tempera-
ture, water and storms. It Is easy to lay, and the freight on it is small.
May we send you samples and prices—a!so some Illustrations of Bungalows ?
The Paraffine Paint Co.
Challis House,
SYDNEY.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager. AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
i .
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L"
- o
CLYDE WOnKS
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“QUEEN OF STATES” BACON
.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HEUDON SPA
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
phuhp st., Sydney, and Redtem
The Bulletin
V©]. 35.—N0. 1776.]
[Thursday, February 26, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OSCAR WILDE.
11
the emperor of
language.
ħ
Best Work:
PF, PROFOUNDI&. -
INTENT! ONS UR SAVILE ’ S crime -
LADY WINDERMERE'S FAN.
AST IDEAL HUSBAND.
SELECTED POEMS.
RANSOME’S
Uniform in size.
CAL STUDY OE OSCAR WILDE’S AND WORK. ’
„„ _., ..... _, _ .... . , p W 179 per vol. ■ Posted, i/10.
At GiiOßbE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
FOR COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
DS
Tins 1/6. SOLD EVERYWHERE,
Endorsed by the Medical World, viz.:—“The
Medical Gazette,” etc.
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol an& other jujubes. It is important,
therefore,- when buving to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good- repute and high character of Hudson's
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
Lancet,” “The Practitioner,” “Australasian
The Red Page
Fiction
C. E. Montague, author of The Morning's
War (Methuen, per Dymock’s Library) has
not yet got into the authors’ list of the
latest Literary Year Book, but he has
arrived in English literature. He promises
to be one of England’s considerable novel-
ists : he has, first of all, style—a thought-
weighted, compact style, difficult reading
for one not indurated by Meredith, yet
finely lit by flashing images, a style in-
wardly glowing, fire in the centre. Next, he
sees character, not in flat tints, but rounded
in mass, sculptured, not painted. And he
can describe: he can cover great canvases
with landscapes and place his reader within
the picture. There is a description of an
alpine climb that for tenseness of interest
and vividness of thrill is hardly to be
matched, m modern fiction—certainly not to
be tound in. any book on mountaineering.
And the picture of the famine-stricken
Irish village of Cusheen is more Irish than
X ™ ? ™ Moore (of The Lake). And finally,
-“lontague can invent and tell a story.
i* 10 story of this journalist who,
describe for an English newspaper
the horrors of an Irish famine, finds
himself the descendant of the man most
hated by the proud, starving villagers, and
therefore, the man most hated by the women
he loves, lapses at the end almost into melo-
drama; but the author’s treatment is almost
fine enough to redeem this obvious conces-
sion to his readers. Here is a book that
must be read, free from sentimentality, free
from literary trickery, with character acutely
and deeply observed and conscientiously de-
picted. As for his style, let this picture of
his heroine suffice :-r*
“Full face she was a right Hebe, with
that benign roundness of outline, the curve
of the chin sweeping round, soft and full,
from ear to ear. But as soon as she half-
turned to profile, the Hebe was gone, with
her mere fruit-like plumpness; now, from
the point of the chin there sprang up to the
further ear a curve noble and strong as that
line of sustenant, continent grace, the out-
ward stoop and lift of a vase or a sailing-
ship’s bow or a column’s capital. Rounding
the chin it drew in to a slight con-
cave in passing the tip of the mouth,
and then, as if collecting its strength,
it filled and reached puissantly out,
and did not draw back till it held the
modelled mass of the brow resting supreme
on its glorious bracket; glorious always, awe-
somely queenly at times All twilit woods
are enchanted if you peer in from without,
ihis one held menaces, even, in some of the
dim vistas, down which the girl receded at
times, beyond grasp or sight, a dryad whose
oaks might be everything to her, and no man
anything.”
JX
Galsworthy comes back to the novel as a
student of love. The Dark Flower (Heine-
mann, per Dymock’s Library) is nothing
but an analysis of the romantic passion : it
ia a book of love. He takes three affairs in
the life of one man: first, the passion that
a middle-aged wife had for him as a young
student; next, the tragedy of his love for the
wife of another man ; and, finally, his infatu-
ation, as a middle-aged married man, for a
young girl. The one love affair that Gals-
worthy characteristically does but mention
leads to his hero’s marriage. This, he might
cynically tell you,, is a book of love. The
moral evidently is that the dark flower of
passion. blossoms more than once in every
man’s life, and that these fugitive hours of
love mean more to a man than a life of
married happiness.
There is this, however, to be said of the
three women whom Galsworthy has so bril-
liantly, so subtly drawn: each belongs to the
passionate, sensual type. They want love,
they grab it. The first is mated to a dry
stick, the second to a grim, jealous master,
the third is an illegitimate daughter—and
knows it. And the one who wins the hero
fof husband is a conventional doll. And each
of the other women is thwarted in her de-
sire: one runs away, fearing to pit her
middle-age against the youth of the doll; the
second is murdered by her domineering brute
ot a husband—with some justification from
his point of view; the third is shooed off the
domestic premises by the man’s recognition
of age.
It is not, however, in Galsworthy’s deline-
ation of the four women, convincing and as-
sured as it is. but in his pictures of the
other persons that the author shows the finest
aspect of his art. There are characters like
Stormer, the Oxford tutor, and the Colonel
and his wife—the English Colonel could
never be sure of what his wife would think
or °* because “she read too many novels,”
and the racing father of the illegitimate girl
who flung her passionate and attractive self
at the hero’s head, that are as brilliantly
seen and as human as any of the characters
of 1 he Country House or The Man of Pro-
perty. The book, of course, is thinner in
tissue tfrbn these two minor masterpieces,
but the pattern, though simpler, is as cleverly
woven. The Dark Flower is not a criticism
Poland: it is an absorbing romance of
individuals.
J*
•S’ M T^?i. gets the mar k quickly
with When William Came, a. story of Lon-
don under the Hohenzollerns (Lane). •He
Pictures the easy acquiescence with which
the British, true to their ideal of compro-
mise, accept the conquest of Britain by Ger-
many. It appears that the war was over
before the British started to “muddle
through ; and when they woke there was
nothing to muddle about. “Our ships were
good against their ships, our seamen were
better than their seamen ; but our ships were
not able to cope with their ships plus their
superiority in aircraft. Our trained men
were good against their trained men, but
they could not be in several places at once,
and the enemy could. Our half-trained men
and our untrained men could not master the
science of war at a moment’s notice, and a
moment s notice was all they got There
was no time for the heroism and the devo-
tion which a drawn-out struggle, however
hopeless, can produce; the war was over
almost as soon as it began.... The collapse
was so complete that I fancy even the enemy
were hardly prepared for the consequences
ot therr victory. No one had quite realised
what one disastrous campaign would mean
tor an island nation with a closely-packed
population.”
The consequence was that Great Britain
re a r» C n!™* y annexed. The King slipped away
.? where he still reigned over most of
the Dominions. And insurrection was hope-
less, since all the _ advantages of isolated
position that told in Britain’s favor when
she held command of the sea told against her
when Germany had the sea dominion. All
Germany need do would be to cut off Eng-
lana s food-supplies with a flqet of cruisers
and destroyers Circling her coasts. So Eng-
land settles down under William as once
before she had settled down under another
William.
The only thing was to make the best of
the fait accompli, and the author caustically
shows how society angles for the German
Imperial favor, how the gay life of London
goes on with little change except in the flag,
and how the rebellious elements of the nation
are gradually assimilated by the Germans.
One master-stroke of the conquerors was the
Imperial Rescript which the Englanders ex-
pected to impose on them the conscription
that they had so dreaded in the days before
the conquest. It read thus: “The British-
born subjects of the Germanic crown had
habituated themselves as a people to the dis-
use of arms, and resolutely excluded military
service and national training from their
political system and daily life. Their judg-
ment that they were unsuited as a race to
bear arms and conform to military discipline
was not to be set aside. Their new overlord
did not propose to do violence to their feel-
ings and customs by requiring from them the
personal military sacrifices and services
which were rendered by his subjects German-
born. The British subjects of the Crown
were to remain a people consecrated to peace-
ful pursuits, to commerce and trade and
husbandry. The defence of their coasts and
shipping and the maintenance of order and
general safely would be guaranteed by a
garrison of German troops, with the co-ope-
ration of the Imperial war fleet. .. .Neces-
sarily a heavily differentiated'scale of war
taxation would fall on British taxpayers,
to provide for the upkeep of the garrison and
to equalise the services aud sacrifices ren-
dered by the two branches of his Majesty’s
subjects. .. .The science of arms was to be
eliminated altogether from the life of a
people who had shown such marked repug-
nance to its study and practice.”
The possibility of the Dominions coming
to the rescue of the Englanders is discounted
with cruel logic; and the book ends with the
vague hope that the younger generation may
ultimately win back their lost heritage. But
how small is such a hope is shown by Munro’s
suggestion that the revolt will be begun by
the rebellion of the Boy Scouts!
The Australian reader will give this de-
lightful book another title. When Yoxhi
hito Came shows how the Australians,
whose ships were good against their ships
and whose trained men were good againsi;
their trained men, but whose half-trained
men and untrained men’-'- could not mastei
the science of war at a moment’s notice,
were overwhelmed with the same sudden-
ness by Japan. And when Yoshi Hito set
up his court in the new Sydney Conserva-
torilim of Music—his troubles about Can-
berra'—the author tells of the delight of
the Sydney morning press at the arrival of
a Governor-General who couldn’t be evicted,
and how the editors explained that all along
they hadn’t been really convinced about a
White Australia: they preferred it done
brown; liow Rosl Sfcoti, as a signal mark of
Yoshi Mito’s august appreciation, was ap-
pointed chief geisha at the White City
Yosliiwarra ; how the Rev. Emtipews marrieef”
his seven daughters to seven brown colonels,
arid pointed out that Christianity was, after
all, historically only a sect of the State
Shinto religion; how Bru Smit-lii and Wili-
mota Iveli were given the order of the blue
chrysanthemum, and their grandfathers
raised to the posthumous rank of earls; how
suburban damsels with/ social aspirations
flocked to enrol themselfes in the new Yos-
hiwarra; how capably Jo Ko took up his new
duty of ricksha’ runner; how pleased Capital
was that now there would be no further
dislocation of industry by such foolish things
as wages boards or minimum wages or
strikes, and how delighted Labor was, even
though it had to work IS hours a day for
9d., thAt there were no more immoral night
drills for its sons; and how overjoyed free-
traders were that at last there w r as free
trade with Japan.
James Francis Dwyer is an expert of the
Nick-of-Time novel. In the Nicotime novel
everything happens at the right nick. The
Spotted (Doubleday, Page, per
Dymoek’s Library) is a Rider Haggard story
of Borneo, _ written without the slightest
literary distinction, and depending solely for
its interest upon a succession of crude thrills.
Dwyer has no other method of getting his
effects save the use of the comparative mood.
Thus, the orang-outang is “larger than any we
had ever seen or heard of” ; the heroine had
a face “more beautiful than any face we had
ever seen” ; The Spotted Panther was “the
biggest man we had, ever seen,” and the vari-
ous characters were the bravest, the most re-
sourceful, the strongest—a wearisome pro-
cession of superlatives. All the old proper-
ties are used by Dwyer—the sacred sword,
the quaking morass, the single combat, the
friendly hag, the legend that the white men
are spirits, the underground passage, the
rescued heroine; and yet not once does the
art of the writer convey to the reader the
slightest fear that anything serious could
possibly happen to hero, heroine or their
friends. The Svotted Panther will be popu-
lar —in the United States, where there is a
whole herd of spotted panthers.
“Our composers of music,” says The Big
Aus., “have been wholly and utterly ne-
glected. But, whatever the cause or the
reason, let us start an Australian
School of Music such as The Bulletin
established for literature.” The idea has
been slowly germinating, inspired by the
various attempts that are being made for
the encouragement of the Australian drama.
If an Australian drama, why not an Aus-
tralian grand opera? The Australian grand
opera already exists —on paper, and its pro-
duction will assuredly awaken a nestful of
Australian composers. Practical steps to-
ward this ideal are already being taken.
Fritz Hart, known to readers as the author
of charming verse, to theatre-goers as one
the Firm's recent conductors of musical
comedy, and to musicians as the present
director of the Marshall Hall Conserva-
torium, was recently in Sydney to join up
this city with a Melbourne movement for
the. production of grand opera. The musical
societies of Sydney are keenly interested;
and it is proposed to nresent two short
operas in Sydney and in Melbourne —Alfred
Hill’s Maori opera, The Weird Flute, and
Fritz*' Hart’s Pierrette. It is up to these State
Governments to help with the article that
helps most—money. Australian grand
opera, produced by an Australian company
and an Australian orchestra, is as much a
national need as the Australian drama, or
population, or unification, or the reduction
in the price of fruit, or a St. Bartholomew's
Day for Wowsers. /
Mardecai VacCobber, the story of a Scotch
Jew in Australia (Schlimm-Mnzel press,
St. Ivilda, Melb.) may be funny—it may even
be meant to be funny; but, on the off-chance
that there, may be a public for this sort of
thing, it is recommended to every, or any,
Scotch-Australian Jew.
The Big Aus., for January, “a periodical of
plain horse sense and patriotism,” edited by
E. S. Emerson (Valley Art Publishing Co..
Brisbane, published by Gordon and Gotch.
ss. a year) contains articles upon Bernard
O’Dowd, “Peopling the North,” Australian
Music, and other patriotic topics. This tiny
maga. is a joyous kid, brimming with
youth. It is cordially commended to all Big
Australians.
Perhaps it would be better to let
the publisher himself criticise The Knight of
the Motor Launch, by Arthur H.
Adams (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.) : "The
Knight of the Motor Launch is a young
man of amorous propensities, always on the
lookout for adventure, and in his cruises
around Sydney Harbor he meets more than he
bargains for. The various episodes are ex-
cellently told, and the conversations are
reminiscent of the ‘Dolly Dialogues,’ which
is saying a lot.” It is!
A series of volumes that has long been
needed is announced by D. W. Paterson,
Melb. The “Australian Settlement Series”
is designed to present the latest information
concerning the agricultural resources and
possibilities of the Commonwealth. It will
include full details of the soils, rainfall and
climate, and of the forms of pastoral and
agricultural work most suitable for the dif-
ferent zones. It will, therefore, be the sort
of series that is wanted by the immigrant.
If the other volumes come up to the com-
pleteness of the first issue. Victorian Agri-
culture, by Thos. Cherry, Professor of Agri-
culture in Melb. University (95.). the series
should become indispensable. The second
volume, Problems of Australian Settlement,
announced for publication, promises to have
a wider appeal.
Kipling offered some of the finest of his
stories to American editors for £lO apiece.
Very, few editors wanted them. This was at
the time of Kipling’s first visit to the United
States, when lie was practically unknown.
For the first half-dozen stories of The Ad-
ventures of Sherlock Holmes Conan Doyle
got £2O apiece; for the remainder Harper’s
paid him £33 apiece. Originally the stories
that made up Hope’s Dolly Dialogues could
have been bought for £3 apiece. This is
cheerful news for our “Bellerives.”
Kiddie Songs
AT GRANDMAMMA’S.
I must wear my buckle shoes
And mustn't kick my feet
When we go to Grandmamma’s
Sometimes, for a treat.
Baby wears her 'broidered dress
And her frilly hood.
When we go to Grandmamma's
We must both be good.
We must kiss her carefully
Never be too rough;
Never speak too loud to her,
And yet speak loud enough.
We must only play with- things
That she lets us touch;
Never be too shy to talk,
And never talk too much.
We have tea at Grandmamma's
(But it’s milk, you know)
Out of cups that Mother used
Years and years ago.
(Baby dropped a saucer once,
But it didn’t break);
We must never spill the crumbs
When we’re eating cake.
IT e must show how much we’ve grown,
And, she lets us see
Pictures of her little girls
Not as big as me.
Then we play a little while —
Not a noisy play;
Then we kiss her for good-bye, /
And we go away.
NOT A CENTIPEDE.
I'm very, very glad indeed
That I am not a centipede,
For think of walking in the street
Or garden with a hundred feet!
For how they would get in my way
Whenever I went out to play.
And, oh, how cross my nurse would get
If all my hundred feet got wet!
Suppose, when I began to run
That half my feet should stop, for fun,
While fifty more toent rushing past —
What would become of me at last?
A nd, oh, what pain if someone chose
To tread on my five hundred toes!
Oh, yes, I’m sure I’m quite agreed
I would not be a centipede.
THE SPOON-GAME.
8 When there are visitors to lunch
I mustn’t talk that day,
And so I make the spoons and forks
A kind of game to play.
Of course, I play it in my head,
But still it’s rather fun;
It is a sort of story-game
That lasts till lunch is done.
The tablespflons are grandmammas
(And sometimes nurses, too) ;
They all wear bonnets large and high
Like grandmas used to do.
The mothers are dessertspoons, then,
You see how that would be;
And all the teaspoons little girls
About as big as me.
The salt-spoons all are baby things,
And they must always stay
Inside their cellar-cradles, ’cos
They’re far too small to play.
' The gravy-ladle drives about,
Much grander than the rest;
And all the forks are men, of course—
I like the ladies best.
But when the grandmammas look stern,
The mothers rather sweet,
I often think how rude it is
To use them when I eat!
From “Rogycheeks and Goldenhead,” by
Ruth M. Bedford (Alston Rivers).
Ruth M. Bedford, part author of The
Little Blue Devil, revels in her kiddie verses
in Rosy cheeks and Goldenhead (Alston
Rivers). The color illustrations by Mabel
L. Webb, lacking much in drawing, have the
same invaluable sympathy with childhood.
The volume is the ideal present for the real
child. There is the delightful inconsequence
of childhood in these clever —but not too
clever —verses; and the humor of kid(}iedom,
which fortunately is of a different species to
the humor of the grown-»p—is admirably
caught. Ruth M. Bedford shows the versa-
tility of the Australian girl.
THE VIRGIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little muscles of her throat
Moved up and down unevenly.
■The gas-jet shrilled continually
A high, intolerable note.
She lay face upwards on the bed:
Her eyes upon the ceiling stared,
Her thin white face at moments flared
Into a sudden flame of red.
Long tremors shook her as with pain,
Her fingers at her nightgofon picked,
And, fever-wise, her dry tongue licked
Lips where desire teas like a stain.
Then with a sudden furious zest
She tore her clinging nightdress free....
Her pale hands crushed in ecstasy
The wasted sweetness of her breast ....
FRITZ S. BURNELL.


nee
FOR GUNS, RIFLES & all SPORTING REQUISITES
Try Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Hollis & Sons’ D.B.R.Tj Gun, Top Lever, 30-
incli, Twist Barrels, right modified, left full
choke bore, Greener Cross Bolt, Engine-turned
Rib, Hammers below line of sight, Bar Locks.
Pistol Grip, Walnut Stock £5/5/-
Hollis & Sons’ Special Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, Damas-
cus Barrels, both Choke Bore, Greener Cross Bolt,
Engine-turned Rib, Hammers below line of sight,
Chambered for cases, and proved for all Nitro-
Powders, Walnut Heart Stock, Pistol Grip, neatly
engraved £lO/2/6
Scholefield’s Double-barrel Breech-loading
Gun, 12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Left Choke,
Bar Rebounding Locks, Plain Hand Stock —
£3/7/6
<J Mayne’s Double-barrel Breechloading Gun, 12-gauge,
Twist Barrels, Back Action Locks, Hammers below line of
sight, neatly finished 77/-
No. 544 A.—Winchester 32 Calibre Self-loading Rifle, Model
1905, “Take Down,” 22-inch Round Barrel, Straight Grip,
Walnut Stock, with ladder rear sight, weight about 7slb. —
No. 541 A.—Winchester S.S. Rifle,
Calibre Short, Long or Extra Long
21 inches long, weight about 41b..
As above, with Elevating Sight
£4/18/6
1904 Model, to take 22
Cartridges, Round Barrel
24/6
25/6
No. 540 A.—Winchester 22 Calibre Automatic Rifle, “Take
Down,” to take Special Cartridge (22 Calibre Automatic, 20-
inch Round Barrel, Plain Trigger, Straight Grip, Walnut
Stock, weight about s|lb. —Rifle £4/7/6 each
Cartridges 2/9 100 ; 25/- 1000
Hollis & Sons’ Single-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Twist Barrel,
Back Action, Rebounding Lock £4/4/-
With Steel Barrel £5/12/6
Blocked Leather
Leg o’ Mutton Gun
Cover, 20/-, 27/-,
30/-
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Top
Lever, 12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Bar Lock, Rebounding
Locks, Snap Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Pistol Hand, Wal-
nut Stock, Hammers below line of sight £4/4/-
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Steel
Barrels, Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Half Pistol, Hand
Stock £4/17/6
Hollis & Sons’ Hammerless Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
Top Lever, Steel Barrels,, Left Barrel Choke, Engine-turned Rib,
Greener Cross Bolt, Automatic Safe, Neatly Finished Walnut
Stock £9/10/-
With Side Clips £ll/10/-
THE illustrations of Guns on this
page are in every instance
drawn from photographs of the
actual weapon, while the prices are
Anthony Horderns’
tmmmaamßKmßnmcamxmmmaßamaammammmm
Famous Low Prices.
Write for Illustrated Price
List of Guns and Rifles,
posted free on application.
W. W. Greener’s D.8.15.L. Hammerless Gun, Anson and Deeby Action, Independent
side safe, Greener’s Treble Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, 30-inch Steel Barrels, Chambered
for 2§ cases. Full Choke both barrels. Plainly finished, without engraving, all the
value being in the barrels and action. Weight, 71b. to Tjlb £lB/10/-
Small Bore Breech-
Loading Guns.
Useful to Orchardists and others for
Destroying: Vermin.
SUITABLE FOR LADIES’ USE.
The Tho!et Arms Co.’s Collector Gun,
Single-barrel, 410 -gauge, 33/6;
Double-barrel, 34/= and 54/=
HOLLIS’ GUNS.
Single=barrel Breech-loading Gun,
410-gauge Collector, 55/=
Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
410-gauge Collector, Side Lever, 87/6 ;
Top Lever, £6/10/=
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading
Gun, The Panmure, Greener Cross Bolt, Sie-
man’s Martin Steel Barrels, extended Rib, ham-
mers below line of sight, Left Barrel Choke Bore,
good Steel Rebounding Locks, Half Pistol Hand
Stock, flat file-cut Rib, Snap Fore-end, Walnut
Heart Stock, Nitro-proof, and chambered for
2:} cases £6
Hollis & Sons’ 12-gauge Double-barrel Breech-
loading Gun, The Commonwealth, Top Lever,
Percussion Fence, three Pin Bridle Locks, Left
Barrel Choke Bore, Half Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock,
Deeley-edge, Fore-end, Scroll engraved, Engine-
turned Bib, Greener Cross Bolt £9
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
The Palace, 12-gauge, Steel Barrels, Left Choke,
Bar Action Locks, Extended Rib, Greener Cx-oss
Bolt, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Walnut Stock, highly
finished £B/8/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill f
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHESTER
%
u
Self-Loading Shotgun
12 GAUGE, TAKE-DOWN
Since its introduction, sportsmen
have subjected this gun to almost
every conceivable test. In no
fair trial has it failed to stand up
or prove its supremacy. Its
Nickel Steel construction gives
strength to shoot maximum loads
with safety, and its reloading
system the ability to handle the
lightest or heaviest loads without
tinkering the action. In this gun
the “kick” is minimized to the
last degree. It has other dis-
tinctive features to recommend
it, as an inspection will show.
THE RECOIL-OPERATED
SHOTGUN SUPREME
ASTHMA CURE
6HIIMILTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma.NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness und Oppression immediately
relieved by GEIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold hi all Chemitti.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
21 Wickham St-eet. Valley, Brisbane,
DON'T FORGET
B.S.A.
with its fine Record of Successes
when contemplating the purchase of a new
machine. There s none to equal a B.S.A.
for reliability because there’s not another
bicycle made with such extreme care, or
undergoes such stringent testing and gauging
as B.S.A. Fittings.
You must remember that if you took a hundred machines
built of B.S.A. Fittings to pieces and mixed them up,
you would have no difficulty in rebuilding, because
every B.S.A. Part is so perfectly interchangeable.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
D.S.A.
B.S.A.
SPARE
PARTS
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
BSA
Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIB Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTNOHY NORPCRN (& SONS LTP.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Oostof Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
One of the best known and most highly
respected residents of Hunter’s Kill,
Sydney, N.S.W., writes of his
complete recovery which
can be easily verified.
Mr. MICHAEL O’DONNELL is one of the oldest identities
of this charming Sydney suburb where he has taken an active
interest in its social and commercial advancement. He writes of
the wonders of Clements Tonic, 25/8/13. Hundreds of Hunter’s
Hill residents know how ill Mr. O’Donnell has been, and how
great a he has to be thankful for having had this medicine
recommended to him. Read his remarkable letter.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Years ago I became completely debilitated, and for six months I was
unable to follow my occupation. My nerves were in such a staje? that sleep
was almost impossible. My appetite had left me, I lost._weight rapidly,
getting as low as 10 stone. I WAS JUST ABOUT AS B£D BODILY
AND MENTALLY AS IT WAS POSSIBLE TO, BE.
.’v V
“ I had medical advice, but derived no benefit ithc imedicine
prescribed, and began to lose hope of ever being my old iqlf'agsih.
. “Hearing of the wonders of Clements Tonic cases, I
purchased some, and alter taking it for a time I began notice a beneficial
result My appetite improved, and the nerves, soothed, allowed
me to have my natural sleep. I BEGAN TO LOOK SO WELL
THAT PEOPLE SEEING ME ASKED WHAT MEDICINE I
WAS TAKING. I kept on with the Tonic till I fully recovered, and
I am now in the best of health, weighing 12st. 4 lb. I'HAVE CLEM-
ENTS TONIC TO THANK FOR MY CURE. I have great
faith in it.
“ Living in Hunter’s Hill all my life, and being well known, this
statement can be vouched for, as nearly everyone knew how bad in health
I was. You may use this as you think fit.’
(SIGNED) rJkUuie/' • &
This letter goes to prove the wonderful strength-giving value
of this splend d medicine, Clements Tonic, which is undoubt-
edly the herald of health, and relieves Lassitude, Sick
Headache, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Apoetite, Poor Blood, Low
Spirits, and Melancholia quickly. All homes should keep U.
ALL CHEMISIS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
B«nd for it.——lt lonethena and awoatona Ufa.


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
All the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND’S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “feeding" cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair -health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL.
h
l Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
Port direct from our Factory. Hignest-
' grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
I *.y res * Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
[latest
MODELS
<£ 3m fQ to £ 9
I Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
AfiFNT<t wanted in each district. Write
at once * using 1 sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and out
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. A 282 LIVERPOOL
AGENT for MEAD
VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
HIMROD'S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
Whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
essential
mf to good sport.
W Good cartridges may
f not always suffice to
i ensure good sport, but
. good sport is out of the
question without them.
ELEY Cartridges do all that the best
cartridges can do in this direction .with a
trustworthiness which has won for them
a measure of success greater probably
than any other cartridges in the world.
Two 'Eley Loaded' Cartridges:
Elcy ‘Acme*
A bright orangeg-inch
deep-shell Cartridge
loaded with Eley
l (42-gr.) Smokeless.
Elcy Eloid
Alight maroon Cartridge.
Loaded withEley(33 gr.)
Smokeless. Light recoil;
absolutely waterproof.
The above, and other Eley
Specialities, may be ob-
tained from all Gunmakers
and A mmunition Dealers.
Eley Bros., Ld., London
Ensr.
yft
■
THE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone llano
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
IHJSIIMOSS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of " Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A. REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
D
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOI.DKN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It total'y eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOEDEN SPECIFIC CO.. DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
3
'sw
It
Every Woman Can Have
A PERFECT
BUST
It matters not if you have been thin and scraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others—why not you?
Mrs. B. Driesden wrote from Armidale, 25th May, 1913 :
“I do not require any more of Dr. Falliere’s Flesh-Food,
as I am developed as much as I desire. My measurements
have increased satisfactorily, and my health has, improved
wonderfully. I will tell my friends of your treatment, and
will always recommend it, and Ivwish to thank you for your
kindness and prompt attention to my wants.”
Many oases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements up to as
have been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full particulars at once,
and recommend this wonderful method. Guarantee given in every case- accepted.
much as ten inches
Thousands endorse
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE OF
‘FLESIi=FOOD’
GET I HEIR TESTIMONIALS.
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
TREATMENT. '
We Will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and- consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
Treatment by Post.
So carefully have
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point, no matter
how distant, can
receive the same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
1819*
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SEMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the -world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
.manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
for packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies 1 Jin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
,No adjusting' or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS Confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
hut alter taking your treatment for ll t days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. C, 107 Castlerea&h St., Sydney.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
ARE YOU
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
th<> reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women <fe children.
I ESC UPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
TfHE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ISO
BLACK, Chemist,
Scratch! Scratch) 11
Scratch! It is mad-
dening l . Keeps you
awake at night. “ISO”
soothes and heals
Eczema. Send 3d; (in
stamps) for Liberal
Sample tube to “ ~
Collinsrwood, Victoria.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nuptial Song.
Between its tawny cliffs the river flows
In sullen lazy slide unto the sea;
The earth, siesta-taking, in its doze
Seems as if troubled dreams denied repose
Amid the garden’s scented pageantry.
An olive shoulder gleamed, an elbow stirred
Above the red-plumed grasses, and I heard
A rich, warm, golden glowing sigh. Again
The sigh’s repeating, and an urgent pain
Spilled its disease within me, till (Alas,
Was ever Beauty so since Beauty was?)
I came upon her, lolling mid her hair
In all her slumb’rous loveliness; the air
Shimmered to so environ her, and seemed
Swooning with joy to veil her as she
dreamed.
About her, where she lay, great lilies spilled
A golden pollen on the warm, red grass.
Leaning towards her, trembling as if thrilled
With love that knew its closest dream ful-
filled,
In which nor tinge of pride nor envy was.
Vieing with all the violet of the skies
A jacaranda shades her as she lies,
In opulence of blossom that it flings
As largesse o’er her while it slowly swings
Upon the perfumed airs that bear as freight
The bee, love-laden from its bloomy mate.
At midstem, coiled in iridescent mail,
A serpent, jewel-eyed, sleeks scale on scale,
And in a writhe of glinting color, seemed
To keep a jealous watch o’er her who
dreamed.
And did she dream, or was it sweet pretence
That prompted her to lie as if asleep,
So I might glean her beauty, summoned
thence
By some wild, wistful yearning of the sense?
What else could mortal lover do but creep
(With fever crazing all his brain, his eyes
Dazzled to blindness nearly and his sighs
Whimpered to ardent sobbings)—what could
he,
Mazed in the trammels of her witchery,
But waken with his lips each muzzling lid
That sullened but the flare it would have
hid,
Dousing the flames that leaped and lurked
beneath—
For surely eyes like hers were born of Death?
And so it was, and so it was, alas!
There was no other thing that could be done.
I lay beside her beauty in the grass,
And all the things I wisted came to pass.
When married iove had made us twain as
one,
Through all the day we lay so, dreaming—
still.
We saw the sun sink red against the hill;
We watched the silver stars burn into gold,
As Night paced o’er us, calm and purple
stoled.
Unto our hearts we heard the river croon
A lullaby that drowsed the bulging moon,
And mellow peace, like manna-laden rain,
Poured down upon us. Nought we knew of
pain,
Who nuptialed all that dreaming tide, and
won
Of Love her crown in Death’s oblivion.
QUEENSLAND.
BERNALRD INGLEBY.
The Desert March.
To each and all there come
When day has taken wings,
And life’s loud drums are dumb,
Dark dreams and visionings.
A veil lifts fitfully
As when night breezes fan ;
And there are those who see
The tragic march of man.
Time straightway stands disgraced,
The past, whereof we vaunt,
Becomes a desert waste
Where pain strides dominant.
What boots the single palm—
The green oasian grove,
When in the hot, red calm
The toiling millions move?
We shudder and behold
The ceaseless march of man
From times and climes grown old—
A sinuous caravan.
On, on the army rolls
Beneath red ruthless skies;
Its units dead men’s souls,
With dark, accusing eyes.
Behold what toil has done,
What ruin it has made?
What havoc heat of sun
And chill of frost have played.
Across the desert sands,
With lips that crack and parch,
And empty hearts and hands
The hopeless legions march.
With dark, accusing eyes—■
A long, unbroken pile,
Beneath relentless skies
They move from mile to mile.
Who wrought this infamy,
Dragged glorious manhood down?
Imperial Rome and she
Who wore the Violet Crown.
In these sad legions brought
To shame in cycles gone;
Behold what Egypt wrought,
And what proud Babylon.
I care not what his name,
Nor what his state or years,
Who thinks upon this shame —
The thought shall bring him tears.
And yet, what tears, alas!
Shall stay the growing woe;
For, as the moments pass—
The legions lengthier grow.
N.S.W,
RODERIC QUINN.


YOU WILL BE PROUD to Owiv this Suite
If you have never bought a suite from us, if you do not know about our method
and policy of absolute “square dealing,” about the strictly reliable quality and the
big saving in price, you should SEND FOR THIS SUITE, and you will be fully
convinced. This style is popular and attractive and speaks for itself. It is called the
“WILGA”
SUITE
m
m
KS UM
In Solid Oak;
Consisting of 3 pieces Wardrobe, bevelled mirror, copper panel over door;
Dressing; Table, deep drawer, bevelled mirror and castors; Washstand,
marble top, tiled back, full width pedestal towel rail, and castors.
Marcus Clark & Co. Ltd.
Railway Square, George Street, SYDNEY.
I
mm
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per clay, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
„ CRACKAJACK Senior ”
BUILT
TO
BEAT
THE
BAND
“Crackajack Mouth Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES.
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3,'- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds, 1/-
„ Senior 20 ~ 2 - Boss Cracker 20 ~ 1 -
~ Junior 20 ~ 1/6 Crackajack Cadet 20 ~ 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Sole Afients: ALLAN & CO. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne. Adelaide. Bendigo. Geelong,
-.0
• ,O oW
a *e
HOLSTEN
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
-X
ipwwfesta*
“WATERSHED”'^
Red Rubber Garden Hose.
Undoubtedly the best hose made. In 60ft. coils.
Mn x 3-ply, 9d. ft. Jin. x 3-ply, 1/- per ft.
A coil discount of id. per foot allowed on all
30ft. or GOft. lengths.
Obtainable from all leading storekeepers
throughout Australia.
Manufurtured and Sold Wholesale and Retail by
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
BRICHT, CLEAN
FLOORS.
If bright, clean floors appeal
to you, you should use
SHI-NOLEUM-the polish that
gives a bright, lustrous surface to
Linoleums and Furniture at half
the expense, and with only half the
amount of work that the old-
fashioned, sloppy creams require.
Beware of inferior imitations.
GWi'VLO^LfttfTl
I
Sold by all
Storekeepers
In N.S.W.,
Victoria
and
Queensland
CRAIG and DONALD’S Punching,
Shearing and Angle-Cutting Machines
DOUBLE-ENDED (Eccentric Type)
M
H i
0
The above design of machine is mnde in various sizes to suit the punching and
shearing of plates from fin. up to 2in. thick, and can be arranged with Engine as
illustrated, with Belt Pulleys, or with direct geared Electric Motor Drive.
CRAIG & DONALD also manufacture:—
Combined Bending and Straightening Rolls,
Plate-Edge Planers,
Rail and Joist Straighteners,
Flanging Machines,
Drilling Machines, and
All Heavy Machinery incidental to Dockyards, Railways, Structural
Engineering Shops, etc.
If you are interested drop us a line or ring up CITY 4143, and get some inside
information about these Machines. We are always at your service.
Sole Agents for Australia,
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED.
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street
MELBOURNE.
We Carry a Full Stock of Engineers’ Machine Tools.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Pose as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—No. 1776.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1914.
PIUCE 111).
THE SAME OLD STORY.
The next N.S.W. session is to be devoted almost entirely to tinance.
UNCLE: “Veil, how much is it this time?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Streef, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
Hy sendiny direct to Tins Bulletin Office Twenty-
oix Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
Ihe Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
lor a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
papei (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vei tisemenls, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin/' is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
I used.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
2/ie Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
dales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects. and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
for the preservation or transmission of
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Cana pa. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., I, Iff Hastings Street,
1 ancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
Nexvs Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.-: Bay City Neivs Co., San Francisco; Quaker
Neivs Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
USth Street, San Francisco; Queen City Neivs Co.,
Uandolph and Clark Streets. Chicago, U.S.A.
Eoyi'T. —lgnace Horn. Port Said, Egypt.
Honc Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Iligby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
Jj/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6sin.
x Bin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Koute, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Soz., Id., 81oz.
In lOoz.. Hid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz.,
Id., and Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1914.
MORE SINKING OF THE FISCAL
ISSUE.
An old, unwelcome ghost—-the spectre of the
Fiscal Issue —made a sidelong appearance
last week at the Australian Workers’ Union
Conference held in Sydney. It wasn’t men-
tioned by name—it hardly ever is—but the
thin edge of its personality was evidenced in
this item of the daily paper report:—
A resolution was also passed protesting against the
present system of State-aided immigration, as opera-
tive in all the States. It was stated that the class
of people brought here was the “poorest of the
poor,” and that the consequence was two applicants
for each job. However, when productive land—not
land running bandicoots—was made easily accessible,
British workmen, especially, and others would be
welcomed to make their homes here, but until this
was done the present system of indiscriminate State-
aid must fail.
So the goblin wasn’t specified on the pro-
gramme, but it lurked dismally behind the
scenes and no one could ouite ignore its
presence there. The A.W.U. and similar
bodies have an abundance of courage in some
matters, but their retiring disposition when
the Tariff stares them in the face is pathetic.
They no more venture to have a fixed and
avowed opinion on that subject—except, per-
haps, by talking vaguely of a certain New
Protection which can’t possibly eventuate
till the Constitution is altered, some time in
the dim future —than a curate dares to openly
disbelieve in the inspiration of the Scriptures.
Being afraid to say that some of the present
unprecedented flood of cheap labor goods
should be kept out of the country, they don’t
so much as hint, in their official capacity,
that any such flood exists. But they pro-
pose, cheerfully and frequently, that men—
good taxpayers and defenders, and in many
cases good unionists —should not be encour-
aged to come in. And the only feasible
assumption is that these men are not wanted
lest they should make goods here, and thereby
bump up against the rich Tory importer and
his gorgeous influx of alien products.
Last year Australia put up some sort of
a record. It has often put up a record, but
this was the biggest one of its sort. The
country imported goods to the value of
£78,163,729. And as it didn’t produce
enough spare goods to pay for them —the
shortage was over £3,300,000 —to say nothing
of enough spare goods to pay the in-
terest on its existing foreign debts, it added
£18,000,000 or £19,000 ; 000 more to its foreign
liabilities. It may have done this disastrous
thing because it was too lazy to work, or too
incompetent to do good work, or because it
was too large in the stomach and too big in
the thirst, and consequently ate and drank
more than it could afford. These are coarse,
insulting explanations, and The Bulletin,
which believes in High Tariff and immigra-
tion and local industry, and the abolition of
borrowing, has no need to fall back on them,
though it fails to see what else a tariff-
sinking and anti-immigration crowd can fall
back on. Its theory is that this Common-
wealth has listened too long to the
fiscal-atheist ass, who holds that we should
stick as closely as possible to the “primary
industries,” and leave better-class work to
outsiders. Also to the importing ass, who
says it is cheaper to pay freight on our sur-
plus wheat to Europe, and on our manufac-
tured goods back from Europe, than to sell
the foodstuffs and buy the manufactured
goods at our own door. Likewise to the anti-
immigration ass who reckons it would be a
disaster to have our workers here, as good
Australian taxpayers and defenders, rather
than have them paying their taxes to some
foreign State and carrying a gun—to our
possible future detriment —in some foreign
army. Again, the borrowing ass, who fancies
that getting into debt is the sure road to
affluence and solvency, may have some con-
nection with the trouble. He is also the
anomalous or incoherent ass who raves about
freedom, and spends his days selling his
children into bondage to the alien capitalist.
* * * #
It is absurd to talk about “indiscriminate
State-aid” to immigration having been prac-
tised in Australia at any time within recent
years, for the quantity of State-aided immi-
gration is very small (of late it has been
growing smaller), and a fair amount'of dis-
cretion is used. There are laws against the
inrush of undesirables, and though the laws
might be better administered, the administra-
tion might also be a great deal worse. There
is no positive reason to assume that the new
arrivals —the few that do arrive—are “the
poorest of the poor,” and if some of them
are hard up the fact of not being a Beef
Trust or one of the Rotiischildren isn’t a
crime. Anyhow, Australia, if it had more
work and fewer big Tory importers, would be
a country in which a poor but healthy toil,er
could soon rise to a position of comfort,
without doing injury to anybody in the pro-
cess. It is hardly worth while to consider
the proposition set out before the A.W.IJ.
Conference, that there are two appli-
cants for every job. The average wages in
N.S.W. industries rose from £77 12s. 2d. per
worker per annum in 1905, to £lO4 Bs. lOd.
in 1912, and despite all borrowing and boom-
ing that sort of thing doesn’t happen where
applicants are twice as plentiful as billets.
Furthermore, the proposition doesn’t square
with the trade figures. If a country has an
actual surplus of workers, and yet has so
few workers—or does so little work—and
produces so few goods, that it has to import
more per head than any other country on
earth, and is kept busy pawning the souls
and bodies, of its children to foreign money-
lenders, to pay for its imported hat and its
extraneous boots, it is either a shocking
anomaly or a shocking case of mismanage-
ment.
*-/ * * *
The Bulletin’s theory is that the policy
of importing goods instead of importing the
makers of goods doesn’t pay in the long run,
and that the practice of exporting raw
material to feed our hatters and bootmakers
in Europe, instead of selling the goods to
them right here, is an absurd loss at the end.
It necessitates dragging one set of goods at
great cost to a port and dragging another set
back from a port. There are freights to pay
to foreign steamship companies, commissions
to buying and selling agents, huge profits to
arrogant importers, exchange, insurance and
sundries. All these things count. And the
fact that this country loses the £l5 or so
per annum which an average Australian
family pays in taxes —loses that sum
through the family not being here, but
located somewhere else—and doesn’t receive
the £25 a year which an average family
pays in railway and tram fares, water
rates, etc.. counts very materially.
As . the situation must come up For
consideration some day. and as it is not good
for a country to. wait till the tower of
Siloam falls on its head before taking
thought about the morrow, some influential
bodv like the A.W.IJ. Conference should
really break its long silence and say whether
it has any kind of fiscal policy concealed
upon its person.
Most of. the Labor organisations, as
already pointed out, are quite ready to
oppose immigration on the ground " that,
under existing conditions, which consist
mostly, of an unprecedented mass of imports,
there isn’t work for any large number of
new citizens. Whether they approve or dis-
approve of these conditions —whether they
consider them a blessing, or an unavoidable
disaster, or a piece of utter foolishness —
doesn’t appear. The fiscal issue continues
to be sunk. It seems to have got the party
into a state of catalepsy or hvnnotism. as a
boa-constrictor is said to do with a sparrow.
No difficulty is made about discouraging the
good English or Scottish trades unionist
who wants to come here. But apparently
it is such a parlous business to discourage
the rich anti-Labor importer from England
or Scotland who opens a warehouse and
brings goods—often •‘scab” goods—here that
he is never made a subject of serious discus-
sion. To rake up his case would perhaps
cause dissension. On any number of occa-
sions a warning has been sent to Britain
that artisans in a certain line of industry—
hats or boots or iron or some old thing—
should not come to Australia because trade
is slack; but even when a Federal Labor
Government is in charge of the tariff it never
receives imperative notice to discourage the
importer of hats or boots or iron or some old
thing because his competition is helping to
make trade slack. He is holy, like the Ark
of the Covenant. Australia may have less
than two persons to the square mile, but it
must remain that way if the scrap of em-
ployment which remains after the rich im-
porter has been satisfied is insufficient to
justify a bia influx of people. So the live
immigrant with intelligence is sacrificed to
make room for the brainless bale, and the
senseless cask, and the keg or bag which
knows less than the beasts that perish.
THE JEST CALLED DACEYVILLE.
Dear Bulletin,- — In last week’s issue
there appeared an article on “Daceyville,”
in which Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald stood up on
his feet to defend the finances of the State-
owned township in the suburbs of Sydney,
whereof the present. N.S.W. Government is
so proud. The points in his story which call
for the most numerous herd of remarks are
these: —
The business part of the scheme is prescribed by
law. The rents must be fixed at such a rate as will
bring a return sufficient to pay 4 p.c. on land and
buildings, together with assurances, rates, taxes,
repairs and maintenance, a share of the expenses of
administration and a sinking fund on a 50 years’
basis. The land was charged against the scheme at
£65 per acre, and the estimated cost of “subdivision
work’’—such as drainage, levelling, road-making,
lcerbing and guttering, etc.—was £312 per acre.
Every charge which a private owner makes against
his property save one —profit—is made against the
scheme. The State desires no profit save what is
gained to the whole community in the enhancement
of the comfort, health and happiness of the people
who live in it; and the comparatively small relief
(none the less valuable as an example) which it
affords to the terrible hygienic and moral problem of
housing-congestion in Sydney.
The rents are, of course, based upon the cost of
the scheme and the sinking-fund period. It will be
seen that the tenants pay for the whole scheme. It
cannot, under these circumstances, be a “pauper
institution,” nor is there the slightest suspicion of
charity in the matter. The rents for the first cot-
tages were fixed at 175., but a re-appraisement was
found necessary (the Board having had to fix the
rents before the returns of cost were available for the
first houses built), and as these houses become vacant
the tenants will pay 18s. For the same class of
cottage in Mosman or any similar suburb, on land
half the size, you cannot find a rent lower than
£1 ss. to £1 10s. For the second class of cottage
the rent is 14s. 6d. Besides the modern conveniences
mentioned above the cottages have verandahs back
and front, specially designed for outdoor sleeping.
Now it is surely exasperating cheek: —at
least it seems so to me—for anybody con-
nected, however distantly, with the Holman
Government to say that any of its enter-
prises are so fixed by law that they must
provide interest and sinking fund. Does
the Holman Government know any
more about political honesty in matters of
finance than a dog does about Christmas?
It was pledged, when it took office, to ex-
pend loan money only on public works which
would pay full interest and sinking fund,
yet it blewed loan money so heroically that
it turned the profit on the principal existing
public works into a loss. And instead of
providing a sinking fund against its new
expenditure it proposes to suspend payment
of the little annual contribution that has
hitherto been provided against the old public
debt, in order to give its decayed finances a
lift and a chance of looking less horrible
than they appear now. It seems to me that
Sheol is full of sinking funds of the Holman
kind.
If Daceyville or any old place of the sort
is simply an advertising scheme and a cor-
rupt (corrupt in a party or political sense)
device for buying votes, there are various
ways by which a Government may pose as a
large philanthropist, and as a splendid finan-
cier which supplies the working classes with
remarkably good houses at remarkably little
rent, and yet makes the scheme pay. One
device is to charge itself with an absurdly
low price for the land on which the houses
are built. The figure mentioned by Mr.
Fitzgerald is £65 per acre, and that cer-
tainly looks cheap enough. Another device
is to assume an amazingly long life for the
houses, and in fixing the sinking fund on the
assumption that the premises are to last 50
years—that they will neither wear out nor
become obsolete in that time —the Holman
Government shows a very fine capacity for
giving itself the benefit of the doubt. The
50-year-old house that is alive to-day was
erected before the Prusso-Danish war, before
the war that hunted Austria out of Ger-
many, before Lee had surrendered to Grant
at Appomattox Court House, before Bazaine
had fled from Mexico leaving Maximilian
of Austria to be shot at Queretero, and long
before the downfall of Napoleon 111., or
the establishment of the German Empire, or
the deaths of Palmerston and Cobden, or
the birth of the present King Geo. V. or the
-end of the temporal authority of the Papacy.
That shanty almost goes back to the begin-
ning of Responsible Government m Aus-
tralia, and it was constructed when Britain
was still sending convicts to this country.
Nobody in his senses really believes that a
new house, which is supposed to be filled
with all modern conveniences to-day, will be
sufficiently up-to-date to be habitable by
decent people 50 years hence, unless it is
reconstructed at grgat expense in the in-
terim. To decide that point it is only neces-
sary to look at the few ramshackle half-
century-old dwellings that still survive in
the obscure by-ways of Sydney, and to re-
member the old aristocrats who once lived
in them and regarded them as palaces.
Then the accounts of Daceyville or places
of the sort may be faked by simply not pro-
viding for the sinking fund, inefficient as it
is, and in the Daceyville case, according to
the Auditor-General’s figures, the sinking
fund contribution hasn’t been provided so
far. In fact, though no interest was
charged, during the financial year which
ended on June 30, 1913, on the capital
value of the ground, there was a deficit
which amounted to nearly three times the
alleged sinking fund. And it is specially
provided that the town of Daceyville will
not be debited with the cost of land required
for recreation grounds, or for charitable,
religious or municipal purposes. So it is
evidently intended to give the place a helping
hand at the beginning, and a mighty good
start. Mr. Fitzgerald himself admits that
(whether for purposes of political advertise-
ment, which means the purchase of votes, or
for some other reason) the rents were origi-
nally fixed too low to make the proposition
solvent even on paper, but the people in
charge apparently haven’t the courage to
raise the rents upon the present tenants.
They are to be raised to future tenants. If
some of the present people, recognising that
they are on a good wicket, hang on for 40
years, the shortage may be quite serious.
It may be especially serious when the
premises grow old and the bills for repairs
come in like an armed man. So far, the
repair account can hardly have started. It
is quite possible, of course, that when all
the buildings are completed and are earning
rent, and the scheme has got its second wind,
things may appear a little better. But the
estimate that the Dacey cottages will last
50 years looks like a joke. And any sinking
fund or any professed attempt at honest
public finance that the Holman crowd is
connected with looks like a devil of a joke.
* * * *
It may be that I am an old-fashioned
State-Socialist, and that I am behind the
times. But it seems to me that public enter-
prises should be run on a solvent basis, and
made to pay their way, and even to yield a
trifle of surplus revenue so that old debts
may be paid off and taxes reduced. There
are, in my view, two forms of State Sosh.
One is and the other isn’t. One uses the
money and credit of the people at large to
make money for the people at large: in other
words, the profits of the nation’s enterprise
are paid into the nation’s treasury. Accord-
ing to the other form the community sun-
plies the money or credit and takes the risk,
and a few favored individuals get the profit.
In the Daceyville case the profit—about 9s.
nr 10s. per week per house, according to
Mr. Fitzgerald’s estimate —goes in the
shape of rebate of rent to a small number of
people who are selected for this special boon
on some principle, not very clearly known to
the general nublic. As there was a loss
during the first year it anpears that the
community not only surrendered all interest
on its investment for the benefit of this
little crowd, but paid it a small allowance
as well. And the Government is supposed
to be deserving of much whoop and credit
and advertisement—wh ; ch all mean support
on election day—out of the one-sided trans-
action. Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Strikes, and N.S.W.’s Undue Share of
Them.
Dear Bulletin,— The Sydney meat strike,
at time of writing, scrambles on its unsatis-
factory way. Quite an extensive meat litera-
ture lias grown up around the movement —a
literature that deals mostly with the skied
cost of living and similar old themes —and
columns and pages of interesting irrelevance
have been written. If the evidence is as true
as it looks, the men have a good case' for
an increase of wages, and that is as far as
the business has got. What troubles the
public is the method adopted to secure that
increase, and the want of method which
prevents it being secured. The great
ambition of New South Wales is to
avoid industrial strife, it being a
costly, untidy sort of business, and too
much like chronic civil war. For that
special end the Holman Government is in
office. It has been there for more than
three years.. It is understood to be a body
of unusual intelligence, with a special know-
ledge of industrial problems, also with a
special mission to secure justice for the
trades-union section of the community. It
is paid its big salaries for this job in parti-
cular ; for its finance is utterly rotten, its
land methods are nothing special, its decen-
tralisation device has proved a fraud and a
sham, its management of public enterprises
has been so disastrous that it appears unfit
to manage a fruit-stall, and its ways of find-
ing an occasional job for a disgruntled sup-
porter are over the odds. To-day the very
reasonable complaint of a meatless commu-
nity is that the Holman Government seems
even more incapable on its special line than
any other Government in Australia. The
Cabinet makes no secret of the fact that its
sympathies are with the strikers, and that it
regards them as having a good case. The
chopless city raises no objection to this view.
It creates no insurrection against increased
wages ; it doesn’t walk in processions by way
of protest; and it hasn’t slain a
single butcher. All it asks for is
steak—even if it be at a slightly-
enhanced price—and peace. It points out
that it has been told over and over again
by Holman and co. that industrial peace—
which in this case means sausage—can be
secured by proper management. Believing
that, it has given Holman and co. all the
power it can bestow, so that they may bring
along all the proper management they have
concealed about them. And if the Ministry
is such an unspeakably incompetent lout
that it doesn’t know how to put its own
special policy into practice, then it is getting
its big salary under false pretences. Cer-
tainly all schemes are fallible, and the best-
laid devices are liable to break down once
in a while. But they shouldn’t break down
all the while. Last year there were 20S
strikes in the Commonwealth, and 622,535
days work were lost, to the great inconveni-
ence of the community. New South Wales’s
share of the trouble consisted of 134 strikes
and the loss of 447,979 days work, so the
State with -the longest-established Labor
Government suffered twice as much misery
and worry and stoppage of the necessaries
of life as the other five States combined.
Therefore the Cornstalk race rises with its
mouth full of vegetables to ask its Minis-
ters certain questions: Do they really know
less than any other set of office-holders about
how to secure satisfactory conditions for the
workers? Or are they so wicked that though
they know how to do it. they won’t do it?
In many of the recent 134 disturbances, the


Holman crowd has made perfunctory com-
plaint re the manner of the men s demands,
but never once has it declared that _ the
demands were really outrageous or unjust.
The general inference is, therefore, that tne
Ministry ought to, but either wont, as a
matter of base purpose, or else can t, because
it habitually falls over its own feet, lhe
fact that Minister Estell has been buzzing
round after the manner of a hurried blowfly
is poor consolation. The population can t eat
Estell. —Yours, etc., Meat-Fury.
A Badgered Prophet.
Last week the home of W. J. Chidley,
Sydney’s picturesquely unclothed philo-
sopher, was invaded by the police; his book
“The Answer” was seized; likewise _ his
papers and a number of other belongings.
A day or so previously he had been refused
the use of the Town Hall, though he had
signified his intention of paying for it. And
a little before that he had been arrested, on
no particular grounds, and for about the
70th time. The harrying of Chidley is be-
coming an unpleasant sort of farce —the
variety of comic turn that consists in at-
taching a kerosene tin to the tail of a stray
cat. If Chidley is mad —and there seems to
be considerable doubt on the subject, inas-
much as though the doctors certify him to
be insane readily enough, yet the Callan
Park authorities refuse to keep him—if lie
is mad, then assuredly he is one of the most
inoffensive loons that ever walked the
earth. He molests no one, insults no one,
and neither drinks, swears nor spits. Cer-
tainly his book is plain-spoken —nearly as
plain-spoken, in parts, as the Bible. On
the other hand, it is wholly lacking in sug-
gestiveness. The mind which would _ be
capable of extracting anything of prurient
interest from Ciiidley’s volume would draw
corruption from Webster’s Dictionary; or
one of the Botanical Garden statues; or a
volume of Hogarth’s drawings. In fact,
such a mind would be so tainted as to be
not worth shielding from infection. To
talk of the moral peril of Chidley’s writ-
ings and discourses when the works of
Hubert Whales and Elinor Glynn are
permitted on the bookstalls, and the gags
of musical comedy and pantomime artists
are permitted on the stage, is sheer blither.
Chidley’s costume is no more indecent than
that of any Anglican Archbishop, Bishop or
Archdeacon ; and it is cooler than the garb
of any of these divines, and' by so much the
more rational, when the weather we are
having just now is taken into consideration.
His philosophy doesn’t appeal to the writer;
but neither on the other hand does Budd-
hism, Shintoism, Freetrade, or the doctrines
of the Plymouth Rock brethren, the No
Breakfast enthusiasts, or the folk who be-
lieve that Bacon was Shakspeare and that
Joseph Cook is Marie Corelli. Scorn on
the part of the police authorities and so on
in regard to any given philosophy or 1 creed
or superstition is not an indication that the
author is a dangerous madman. It simply
signifies that the doctrine, or whatever it is,
has not yet reached the intellectual dregs
of the populace. The people who were to
blame for the crucifixion of the greatest of
all philosophers were mostly police officials
and lunacy experts. This paper has no
wish to canonise Chidley. It doesn’t ad-
mire either his legs or his feet. All it
claims on his behalf is that he is harmless
—more harmless than those who, unlike him,
drink strong wines and in their resulting
frenzy assault total strangers, and make
sinful and hiccuppy advances to unknown
females; more harmless than persons who
lose their substance on the turf and em-
bezzle the substance of their employers to
make up the deficiency; and far more harm-
less than Orange clerics, sweating employers,
fomenters of meat-strikes, and so forth.
There are a thousand directions in which
the police force of Sydney may profitably
exhaust any spare time and energy the
members chance to possess. Let Chidley
be given a rest. N. S. Wales is in danger of
making a martyr of him.
+
The Latter-Day Geebung.
Evidence is provided, every now and then,
that the dreadful old Geebung spirit is still
alive in N. S. Wales. In fact, so far from
being dead it is, if anything, stronger, in the
few haunts where it still lurks, than it was
in the days when a Victorian was regarded
by the typical Mother-Stater as one whom
it would be a good and patriotic act to
destroy on sight. There is, however, a differ-
ence. The hatred and jealousy of Victoria
which characterised the John Robertson
epoch have crystallised, in the bosoms of a
few weird survivals, into an unmentionable
loathing and fear of Melbourne. The wronged
party is no longer N. S. Wales; it is Syd-
ney. As the latter-day Geebung regards it,
the Australian stateman’s first duty is to
attract more trade to Sydney; to swell the
population of Sydney ; to advertise Sydney
in foreign lands; and, in general, to battle
ceaselessly to make N. S. Wales, not to men-
tion the rest of Australia, a sort of appanage
of the harbor-side city. This attitude was
exemplified interestingly in a letter from one
C. Churchill Tucker, which the S. M.
Herald printed last week. Some extracts: —
By May 1 the Finley-Tocumwal extension will be
completed, and the most foolish piece of legislation
ever introduced by the New South Wales Parliament will
be consummated.... During my travels in Great Britain
and America I saw quite enough to convince me that
Melbourne is having a tremendous pull, through the
fact that the eyes of the world are turned towards
her as holding the. seat of government of the Com-
monwealth, and if she retains that advantage, toge-
ther with securing the immense trading area of the
south-western districts of New South Wales, our own
capital must sink into insignificance when compared
to Melbourne’s future progress.
The writer went on to bemoan the fact that
the Millions Club had ceased to concentrate
on the business of “boosting” Sydney, and
to deplore the decentralisation craze gener-
ally. There was some excuse for the infuri-
ated attitude which the old time N. S. Wales
State-righter took up in regard to Victoria.
Whatever national sentiment he had was
bound up in his native State. Australian
unity was still a thing of the remote future.
He was genuinely anxious for the
advancement of his native State. The
20th century Geebung, who lives and has his
interests in and about Sydney, is a bird of
a different color. To him any part of Aus-
tralia which removes, or may remove, a
fragment of trade from Sydney, or which
derogates or is liable to derogate from the
size and dignity of Sydney, is as abhorrent
as a hostile invader. Melbourne is only
more detestable than Bathurst or Armidale
inasmuch as it is more formidable. Can-
berra is tolerated chiefly because it is inoffen-
sive. Its dryness, its unpleasant climate, and
its lack of most of the amenities of civilisa-
tion render it contemptible as a possible
rival to Sydney; while, on the other Hand, it
promises to be a profitable market for Syd-
ney products for many years to come. But
the cities that might arise at Jervis Bay
and Port Stephens are not in the Canberra
category. As a result, the territories in
which they will some day arise are regarded
with fear and exasperation by the Geebung
variety of Sydneyite. The backyard patriot
who is prepared to strain every nerve to pre-
vent the progress of any city or town or dis-
trict in N. S. Wales lest Sydney should
thereby lose a few shillingsworth of trade
though the State may gain to the value of
millions, is almost as uniquely our own as
the platypus. He is a traitor both to Aus-
tralia and to his native State, yet with
cheerful complacency he manages to go on
regarding himself as a good citizen.
A Case for Prompt Action, as Distin-
guished from Lengthy Discussion.
On Friday last the S. M. Herald published
a letter from Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., in which
the latter (1) emitted a psean of joy because
the Herald had begun to call syphilis by its
proper name, and (2) urged the appointment
of a Royal Commission to inquire into and
report upon the subject of this disease.
Royal Commissions are futile things at the
best. They provide politicians with profit-
able if but temporary billets, and they pro-
vide the public with a mass of information,
most of which information everyone who is
sufficiently interested to study it, possesses
already. The recent efforts of the absurd
Totalisator Commission supplied a case in
point. The proof that the public needs no
enlightenment from any Royal Commission
on the question of the hideous possibilities of
syphilis, is to be found in the simple fact
that the S. M. Herald considers the time
to be ripe for frank mention of it. Papers
like the Herald do not lead public opinion ;
they follow it from afar. Where any steps
of a progressive nature are concerned, what
the Herald or Telegraph advocates to-day
the fairly intelligent person on the tram
was anxious to see accomplished this time
last year, or earlier. As regards the desira-
bility of tackling syphilis, with the same
ruthless vigor that the plague, small-pox and
so on are tackled each time they appear,
there is no doubt in the minds of rational
Australians. They know that the job should
be undertaken, and they marvel ceaselessly
at the cowardly irresolution of their politi-
cians in the matter. The Victorian Govern-
ment instituted an inquiry into the preval-
ence and effects of syphilis in the Murray
State a couple of years ago. The researches
of the experts who were employed in the
matter indicated that the disease was appal-
lingly prevalent there, and that its effects
on the public health were disastrous. There
is no shadow of a reason for thinking that
the plight of N. S. Wales or any one of the
other States is less awful. It is as idiotic,
in the circumstances, to fool round with
Royal Commission investigations as it would
be to institute lengthy inquiries as _to the
general undesirability of a foreign invader
who was hard at work devastating the coun-
try and slaughtering its inhabitants. Dr.
Arthur provides in his letter above-men-
tioned some of the soundest reasons imagin-
able why the Anti-Syphilis campaign should
be undertaken at once. An extract: —
Could the average man and woman have merely a
momentary glance at one of those unhappy innocents,
the victims of hereditary disease, it would do more
to convince them of the necessity for abandoning the
present laissez-faire policy than all the talking and
writing in the world.
Some years ago I felt justified in taking such a
case into Parliament House, and showing him to
some of the members. All of those who saw him
were aghast that such things should be, but were
grateful for having had their eyes opened to the
existence of such hideous possibilities for innocent
children.
He doesn’t appear to favor compulsory noti-
fication, but he stresses the importance of
treating all cases with salvarsan as a means
of swiftly abolishing infectivity; and he
makes a vital point that The Bulletin has
been making for the past three years, viz.: —
Syphilis will never be stamped out, however ener-
getic the measures taken here, if virulent forms of
the disease are constantly being introduced from
Asiatic seaports. The Commonwealth Government
should be called upon to maintain a rigorous inspec-
tion and quarantine for such diseases.
This paper hereby implores Arthur not to
stultify his wise and earnest advocacy by
blitherings about Royal Commissions. Their
main object is to give Ministers an excuse
for not doing something; and the busi-
ness of stamning out syphilis is so important
that no Minister or party, or Parliament,
should be given a chance to neglect it for
an unnecessary moment longer.
Slums and Bumbles.
Dear Bulletin, —A Saturday or two ago
the 40 villages which municipally constitute
the suburbs of Sydney held their elections,
and one or two of them grew mildly excited
about it, pitching out a few of the old impos-
sible aldermen to make room for others, who
may or may not be better than the ejected
batch. The dismaying fact is that the year
1914 should still see the 40 collections of
Bumbles in existence. Debate after debate,
and Commission after Commission, have ad-
vised either the immediate or the progressive
destruction of these tinpot bodies, but there
they stick, and it is not even certain that
the new Parliament is going to wipe them
out. They are a sad old example of muni-
cipal inefficiency. Because of them, Sydney
as a big city is miserably out of date in mat-
ters of intelligent municipal government. We
have roads which ought to be paved with the
skulls of those responsible for them —and
probably the skulls would make good, durable
cobble-stones. We have untidy, slovenly
beaches which the little suburban councils
say they can’t afford to improve. We have
a town dotted with slums, and unplanned in
wild disorder, beside which Chaos would
look like a prize architectural design. We
have suburban death-rates in exact propor-
tion to the degree of miserable incompetence
shown by this or that set of aldermen. We
have no scheme of municipal housing worth
talking about. And a few weeks ago, all
these petty aggregations of . uselessness were
solemnly engaged in replacing one group of
futile Bumbles with another group who will
have the same opportunities and the same
intelligence. The most recent reason for the
swift abolition of this chaos of Bumbledom
comes in the persistence of the slum. Sydney
City is not yet thoroughly cleared of its
noisome areas of overcrowded hovels, where
sickness vice and general human putres-
cence are industriously cultivated. A lot of
such areas have been wiped out in the city,
however, and the immediate result has been
to reproduce them in the suburbs, which
Sydney ought to have absorbed, but hasn’t.
In St. Peters, Balmain. Paddington, etc.,
there are “streets” 10 or 12 feet wide, and it
is no uncommon thing to find houses with a
12ft. frontage. Into districts like these are
being driven all the slums that were shifted
from Sydney under Allen Taylor’s policy
of demolition. That Citv Council scheme
had no re-housing provisions in it, and since
families must get a roof over them, even a
miserable roof, they settled down in new
hovels outside the city boundaries. In Red-
fern, for instance, there is one block of three-
quarters of an acre on which 89 houses are
built, and the congestion and general squalor
are ugly to look at, even in the photograph
which Professor Irvine published in his re-
port on Housing. Newtown, Alexandria and
Darlington (the last named being an absurd
municipal relic that covers 44 acres only)
have similar localities. It looks as if nothing
short of an earthquake could make some parts
of Sydney decently habitable. But an earth-
quake won’t be wanted if two tilings are pro-
vided-brains and money. You can’t get
either of these commodities in sufficient quan-
tity in a little fool of a municipality whose
aldermen mostly scramble for the “honor” of
being the next to wear the rabbit-skin collar.
With Big Sydney spreading out over the ill-
used areas, the finances of the new city could
stand schemes costing millions of pounds.
Sydney City itself needs this enlargement.
Doings in the City Council just now have
settled into a Meagher-Richards alliance
against another group, with the scalns of
certain officers as the prize, and .there is not
much evidence left of that “municipal imagi-
nation” concerning which .T. D. Fitzgerald
has zealously spouted. With a wider Syd-
ney there would be in every way a better
chance of making this town a decent place
for a poor man to live in. When is it going
to happen?—Yours, etc., Constant Blas-
phemer.
The Uniformed Law-breaker Again.
The growing tendency of the N. S. Wales
police to arrest inoffensive citizens on more
or less frivolous grounds, and on being re-
monstrated with by other inoffensive citizens,
to run amok and deal out stousli and base-
less charges all round, got another advertise-
ment last week. Constable Brown, of Syd-
ney, was the offender. His method of appre-
hending one Johns scandalised a number of
bystanders, and they proceeded to the police
station in Woolloomooloo to lodge a protest.
According to the evidence of a Darlinghurst
solicitor: —
A number went inside, but Brown rushed them
all out, and kicked one man. Denovan walked to
the middle of the road, and I went over to speak to
him. when Brown wildly charged us, and after some
words he “rushed” him (Denovan), and while tak-
ing him up the steps he struck him two severe
blows. There was no provocation given.
The man of law further suggested that
Brown was drunk or thereabouts, and a
number of reputable burghers corroborated
him. Of course Brown produced evidence
to show that he was stone sober; that he
had not rushed or smitten anyone; and that
he had behaved in every respect as a model
policeman should. But the superior weight
of testimony was on the other side. The
magistrate gave Brown the option of pay-
ing up some £l2 in fines and costs or going
to gaol for six weeks. If it were certain, or
even fairly likely, that every time a semi-
inebriated John Hop abused the very ex-
tensive powers with which he is invested,
he would be convicted of the offence and
punished, the public would have little cause
for uneasiness. Unfortunately, the combina-
tion of circumstances which is calculated to
produce this result hardly ever arises. A
policeman has to be very drunk or very reck-
less to carry on before a large audience in the
furious fashion that Constable Brown did
last week, or in the equally uproarious way
that one of his colleagues did on a Coogee
tram last month. Under ordinary circum-
stances the officer who feels disposed to mis-
behave in the above fashion is careful to
choose a suitable time and pl-ace. For ex-
ample, he will refrain from raging violently
in the presence of attorneys, and others
whose word is likely to carry weight with
magistrates. There is not the slightest
doubt that had Brown’s attack on Denovan
been unobserved, or observed only by the sort
of humble Woolloomooloo witness who cuts
little ice in a police court, the citizen who
suffered because of his passion for justice
would now be branded for life as a brawler
and an alcoholic. To many people the
acquisition of that sort of reputation is the
equivalent of social and financial ruin. The
danger can never be entirely obviated so long
as policemen are drawn from the ranks of
human beings. It is on record that such
distinguished characters as Gladstone, Pro-
fessor Ray Lankester, George Alexander
and others have come into public conflict
with the police in connection with the latter’s
methods of dealing with alleged misdemean-
ants. However, the peril can be minimised
to a great extent. One of the most obvious
ways is for the force to diligently weed out
Brown. There should be no place whatever
in such a body for the type of individual
who is capable, imprimis, of getting drunk
and assaulting respectable strangers; and,
secondly, of lying hardily when taxed with
his misdeeds. Incidentally the pay should
be sufficient to make it possible to get an
adequate supply of brawny defenders even
after Brown has been subtracted.
Women’s Work.
“0.K.” : A Melbourne W.P.A. sister, speak-
ing of women’s work to a number of other
sisters who toil only at talking and “organis-
ing,” said that she never gazed upon a sales-
man of ribbons and laces in a drapery-shop
without thinking that a girl ought to have
his billet. Now, every political economist
admits that girls should be better drapers
assistants than men in every department
where the goods are not heavv. They ought to
be quite as cute, tactful and persuasive as the
ordinary “pushing young party with ‘What s
the next article?’” and more interested in
the business. But they are not. Therefore
the boss engages men to sell his ribbons and
laces. It pays him to do so. tie knows the
relative strength of the sexes in his own line
of money-making, and picks his shop-walkers
and counter-hands and show-room ladies
accordingly. Wpmankind is not entitled, on >
its business merits, to any more billets in
drapers’ shops than it gets. An Act of Par-
liament forbidding the employment of men
would, of course, satisfy the W.P.A., even as
the prohibition of barmaids in pubs would
please the Wowsers. But if the vast trade in
women’s garments were controlled and
carried on by women only, the ultimate re-
sult would be a sexual reversion to the fig-
leaf fashion, probably, owing to the men m
the counting-houses having got away with
the floating assets of their respective farms
after the business had ceased to pay. All
the same, I am in favor of any legislation
calculated to lead to chaos in the rag trade,
whilst compelling a few hundred able-bodied
young men to turn their thoughts from rib-
bons and laces. And I am still more m
favor of a revolution in the shave and air-
cut industry. Barbering is. essentially
women’s work. A trained hospital nurse, is
expected to know how to shave a man with
the old-fashioned razor blti.de. With a
“safety” she cannot go wrong. The most
elaborate dressing of women’s hair is done
by maids —so-called. The art of hair-cutting
is accomplished with scissors and mowers,
which any ordinary girleen can handle more
deftly than the ordinary boy. Some of the
hours wasted in teaching her to draw, paint
and play the piano should be devoted to
making her a competent barber. Nothing'
pleases her better than to handle a man’s
head. Every woman is a haircutter and
shaver at heart, yet she li/es and dies with-
out having saved her father, brother or lover
a shilling by shearing him in the domestic
circle rather than let him go and waste his
substance at a “saloon.” She should per-
form tonsorial duties more cheerfully than
she darns a pair of sox. Why not? Can the
W.P.A. excuse the uselessness of women m
this respect? Is the thought of Vida Gold-
stein buying a yard of ribbon from a fin-
icking Adolphus more revolting to ad-
vanced civilisation than the spectacle of a fat
young man shaving a stubbly plumber for
sixpence, or snipping off the loose ends of
a baldhead’s few remaining hairs for a shil-
ling a time? I pause for a reply. When
the pause is worn out, which will probably
be in about three months, I will come back
and bellow for a reply.
*
Prime Minister Cook, who is a brief, faint
sort of person, must have staggered in his
tracks when the Kalgoorlie and Boulder
Miners’ Union requested him, the other day,
to bring such pressure to bear on the British
Government that it would be moved to jump
hard on Prime Minister 3otha, of South
Africa, and make that armed Boer repent
the cussedness of his ways in the matter of
the deportation of certain strike leaders.
The wording of the demand was that Cook
should “render such a protest to those re-
sponsible and to the British authorities as
will make it clear that the people of Aus-
tralia are not prepared to tolerate such gross
injustice being done to their fellow-oeople in
any part of the British Empire.” This was
a huge proposition, and a much more plenti-
ful man than Cook might have dropped dead
at the sight of it. The number of “fellow-
people in the British Emnire” is getting
along briskly towards 400,000,000, and we
are less than 5.000,000. Complaints of
“gross injustice” arise about once every
minute from some section of the Bull people
—mostly from niggers. Some of the com-
plaints can bear inspection and some can t.
Proper inspection would probably cost sev-
eral million pounds per annum, and inter-
A Beef Matinee.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The attempts made by the master butchers to sup-
ply the public with meat have not met a tenth of
the demand.— Sydney paper.
Faint, few and halting were the words we
said,
Beefless, forlorn and weary dragged the
hours;
The sea was bright, the broad sun overhead
Tickled the world with all his thirsty powers ;
But we were sad, for neither steak nor chop
Adorned the window of the butcher’s-shop.
Then someone said : “The matinee is held
This pleasant afternoon at half-past two ;
The sheep is smitten and the ox is felled,
And all the world is glad with hint of stew.”
Out of the depths of our stupendous grief
We rose elated at the call of beef.
Down the deep gorge of George-street where
it winds
By frowning cliffs of brickwork plastered
grey
We went in haste as one who hunting finds
The recent footsteps of his destined nrey.
A thousand strong we mustered at the door,
Each glorying in the hunger that he wore.
Swift with the cleaver, swifter with the
steel,
The butcher sliced the offspring of the cow ;
The mutton’s children, brisket, loin and heel
He carved apart with sweat upon his brow ;
And we by turns advanced and bought our
share
From that restricted mart of shambles-ware.
Oh, we were glad to take the scraps they
gave
When mercy moved the men of flesh to stay
The people’s hunger with a sop 'to save
Their own red profits ’gainst a reckoning
day ;
In fact, we felt quite jubilant and proud
To think the use of meat once more allowed !
The cheerful Government of New South
Wales
Has laws to guard the people in their need
From any brigand of the mart who bails
The public up for ends of orivate greed:
But why should men of State provoke a fuss
When no one suffers injury but US?
A chaste, pale rabbit and a bunch of grapes
Are on our happy board the while I write;
Bevond the winter smoke of Biscay capes
Our Riverina lambkin roasts to-night;
But we shall go to help along the play
To-morrow at the butcher’s matinee.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From M/6 Day;
£3 I Os* Week.
BESS 0’ TH’ BARN”
r.'Viys.
MOUTH ORGANS
The full tone and accurate tune of
“Bess o’ th’ Barn” Mouth Organs
places them above all other makes.
The Concert Artist Model, with 20
Reeds, Nickel Mouthplate and Metal
case. Post free, O /
Other Models, 1/-, 1/6, 3/-.
WRITE FOR LISTS.
Musical Instruments of AH Kinds.
A. P. SYKES,
272 Little Collins-street,
0 MELBOURNE.
FPOM COLE'S lOOKARWDE
TWO DOO*S
HICKS, ATKINSON«SONS
PTY. LTD.
The Collins Street House, Melbourne.
Hotel Metropole,
SYDNEY.
RETENTION OF RECEPTION
ROOM No. 1.
We intend to occupy this room
for a considerable time for the
representation of our Millinery
and other Novelties.
It will be in charge of one of
our principal saleswomen.
Inspection invited.
HICKS, ATKINSON 8 SONS
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
HEIGHT Increased
If you are not over 40 years of age I can
Increase Your Height by from two to three
inches within three months.
No Medicines. Ordinary Habits Retained.
No appliances or drugs of any kind are used,
and it . is impossible for my system to cause
overstrain or to injure the health in any
way. On the contrary, my students are in-
variably astonished at the tremendous improve-
ment in their health which my course pro-
duces.
All the • time required to be devoted is 10
minutes morning and evening.
I do not ask you to make any drastic altera-
tion in your diet, your smoking, or your mode
of life.
GROW TALL, MY SYSTEM WILL
SHOW YOU HOW.
Send two penny stamps with your name and
address, for further particulars.
HUGH GIBSON,
Specialist In the
Increase of
Height,
Department 123, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ference without inspection might cost a
hundred millions in any one year, for war is
a high-priced article. Even interference
after inspection wouldn’t be a cheap business.
To make it absolutely clear that the people
of Australia are not prepared to tolerate
gross injustice to their fellow-men in any
part of the British Empire, including Upper
Burma and Beluchistan and British Hon-
duras, this little nation must be armed with
the biggest gun ever carried by a person of
its size, and must be prepared to spend on
the knight-errantry game every bean it has,
nnd every bean it can raise by pawning its
future right up to the Day of Judgment.
For if a small community decides that it
really can’t stand something or other, and
the large community on which the summons
is served merely tells it to go away and play
with the cat, then the small community
must either enforce its ultimatum with an
army and navy and a rich treasury, or be-
come an object of public scorn and disrepute
and have decayed fish thrown at its reputa-
tion.
About a, Mixed Brother.
Mexico, where almost every influential or
large-sized rioter is a General nowadays, is
a country which enjoys the blessings of
voltintary military service. And when Mex-
ico starts a revolution—it has had
nearly 300 of them by now —the intense
voluntariness of the people is apt to pro-
vide it with several dozen armies and 300
field-marshals all at once. The 'population is
(1) pure Spanish (divided into Liberal and
Conservative parties) ; (2) Spanish-Indian
(similarly divided and also not feeling too
good towards the white men) ; and (3 to 15)
Indians (divided into many tribes, and
filled with objections to the half whites,
and more objections to the pure whites,
and a fair number of objections to each
other). If the whites had a big white
mother-country behind them, as the English
in- India have, they could keep order, but
they are on their own. If they were a
great majority, like the whites in the U.S.,
again they might keep order, but they are a
small minority. If the colored folk were
toPn by a score of religious feuds, like the
liypvn people of Hindustan, it might be a
simple job to hold them down, but they have
enjoyed the blessings of conversion—at
least, enough conversion to shoot with. And
if the country had compulsory military ser-
vice the habit of discipline might make up,
in part at lenst. for the want of an hereditary
national feeling, and it might be the same
orderly sort of place as Chili, but the vol-
untary system, being too voluntary alto-
gether,. has sagged down to brigandage.
Only when a powerful scoundrel like Santa
Anna or a powerful patriot like Juarez
or Diaz took hold has the motley republic
had a little peace. And both Juarez and
Diaz raised compulsory forces regardless of
the law in a time of danger. They were
giants who could jump on laws with one
hand and enemies with the other. No
honest law-abiding ruler of merely respect-
able ability has a show in this land of too
many races and not sufficient religions.
Now, one of the several hundred generals
who are leading the many non-compulsory
armies of mixed colors, to make confusion
worse confounded, seems to have taken to
killing British subjects. And as the TJ.S.
won’t maintain order in Mexico, and objects
to any European nation interfering to keep
order —well, there is another meat strike
in view. The meat is a certain Mexican
brigand who calls himself a marshal or ad-
inujal or sergeant or something, and there is
a feeling that he must be struck by some-
body. On present appearances it will take
a lot of humility on Bull’s part to avert
coolness between London and Washington.
Rev. Spurr, a Melbourne parson of the
Baptist persuasion, who returned to England
last week, supplemented his farewell sermon
with a few nasty remarks about Sydney and
all other capital cities of Australia except
the one where lie drew his salary. “He
would not be a minister in Sydney for any-
thing, the people were too frivolous,” he
said. “Adelaide, although he loved it, was
a little cold, and the West resembled Syd-
ney.” Spurr. apparently, had very little
knowledge of the Melbourne that lay out-
side of his tabernacle. The trouble with
mogt people thereabouts is that they are
der£pd those temptations to frivol on' Sun-
days which hav& led Sydney astray. A trip
down the bay would be impossible to the
vast majority if they wanted it, for the
steamer accommodation is limited. Sunday
newspapers are prohibited by Act of Parlia-
ment. Surf bathing at St. Kilda during
church hour* would be a capital offence if
anyone were guilty of it. and the citizen
who laughs aloud in a public thoroughfare is
likely to be charged with muddy behavior.
The Bulletin’s Military and Naval Sky
Pilot writes
Harry Hawker, the Australian flying man, drew
attention last week to the fact that "a British officer
recently flew 50 miles out to sea in a hydroplane and
located a sunken mine. (The sea-floor can be clearly
-°en. to a moderate denth, from a height of 1000 ft.
or so.) He says -that Australia wants, not aero-
planes, but hydroplanes, which can fly 100
miles out and drop explosives on an approaching
enemy, and that for the £21,000 already spent on
the aero-defence branch an ideal equipment could
have been secured. An aero-defence equipment that
would meet Australia’s requirements for some con-
siderable time would comprise—one hydro-aeroplane
for Perth, one for Adelaide, two for Bris-
bane and two landplanes, and four each of both
varieties for Melbourne and Sydney. This distribu-
tion of planes, as set forth by Hawker and his
mechanic, IvaupEr, might be varied, but their
general dictum may be accepted. They speak with
authority, as men who know and do. " What is the
Defence Department, with its grotesque equipment
of out-of-date Bristol biplanes, going to do in the
matter ?
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Diplomacy.”
Unit Majesty's “Come Over Here.”
Palace “The Land of Nod.”
Adelfui.... “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
CiUTEitioN “Never Say Die.”
Little Theatre “His House in Order.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric J
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress )
Crystal Palace Continuous Pictures, etc.
} ' Vest ’ s I>ictures -
Imperial Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Eden Gardens, Manly. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Fortv Thieves.”
Princess’s “The Rebel.”
King’s “The Ninety and Nine.”
Royal “Joseph and Ilis Brethren.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda. . The Dandies.
Athenjeum Hall “The Smart Set.”
■ ♦—
In order to prove the advantages of cook-
ing by electricity, the local agent arranged
for a public demonstration at Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday night. A delightful little
dinner was prepared on the stage by electri-
city ; and in order to introduce the American
quick-lunch habit, Fred Niblo and several
members of his company kindly consented to
eat the product. It was noticeable that no
meat was served—even electricity won’t
cook meat during a meat strike; but
the result of this quick-lunch contest easily
constituted- an Australian record. The
whole meal was finished in three-quarters
of a second under evens. The exhibitions
will be continued nightly. If the
agent could only secure a bit of beef or
lamb and electrically boil it in the full
view of the audience, the Criterion Theatre
should be more crowded than a master-
butcher’s shop at 8 a.m.
* * * *
An air of naturalness was given to the
electrical cooking and quick lunching exhi-
bitions by the neat device of presenting a
comedy written round these two themes by
W. H. Post and William Collier. “Never
Say Die’’ begins at 8.15 and expires at
10.30, which, allowing for two quarter-hour
intervals, shows that its death-struggles
mercifully do not exceed one hour and three
quarters. Woodbury is given three weeks
to live, or three minutes if he ventures on
one cocktail. He lias nobody to whom to
leave his millions, so he comes to the rescue
of an impecunious artist and his fiancee by
going through the form of marriage with
that nice, but penniless, girl, promising that
within a month she will be. a rich widow
able to endow her new husband with funds
sufficient to paint any acreage of master-
pieces. Whenever this happens on the stage
you know that the formal marriage will be-
come a honeymoon as the curtain descends.
In betweep. however, all sorts of humorous
and farcical things may happen. And the
dramatists have seen .that they do. The
approaching corpse does everything that his
doctors have forbidden h,im to do, and grows
healthier with each cocktail. To prove it,
he eats a lobster mayonnaise and drinks
no less than four cocktails in full view of
the audience. So when the wife-in-name-
only inconveniently returns, the perishing
millionaire arranges with a detective to pro-
vide the material for a divorce. This,'
material is always a blohde in pink, with a
good deal of the pink on view. Unfortu-
nately the wife and her mother arrive at the
flat at the same time, and each is taken by
the detective as the divorce-material. The
scene ends .with the production by each of
the man’s friends of enough divorce material
to convince a cardinal. But the wife-in-
name-only fortunately possesses some sense,
and goes off to America with her married
property in the bridal suite of the Atlantic
liner.
* * •* *
The farce is peppered with smart repartee,
and has some delightful farcical situations,
the quick-lunch being responsible on Satur-
day for convulsions —or it may have been
hunger—on the part of the ninth girl, row
37 in the gallery. Much of the humor is.
however, of a different kind. It consists of
a man doomed to an early death joking with
the grisly subject. It has the same startling
effect upon the audience as one feels when
one sees an undertaker in mufti, or looks on
while ii person drinks wine out of his own
bleached skull, or rides on the roof of the
hearse at his own funeral in order to enjoy
the scenery and the fresh air. As Wood-
bury, Fred Niblo captivates the house by his.
quiet humor. His work is always exqui-
sitely finished, and his approaching depar-
ture will be regretted. Miss Josephine
Cohan has little to do except to look sweet:
and wistful, and to wear the sort of gowns,
that—well, that sort of gowns. Sydney
Stirling repeats his success in “Officer GtKi'”'
by a contrasting study of a valet. This,
clever piece of work is always kept in the
minor key, despite the temptation to em-
phasise its many opportunities. The two.
doctors, Edwin Lester and Robert Greig,
are of the well-matured, farcical kind kept,
in stock in all well-furnished theatrical cel-
lars. Maurice Dudley is variously volcanic
as the electric chef. Miss Marcus Clarke
is human and refined as the heroine’s
mother; and Miss Irby Marshall’s vivacious
chorus-girl, as exhibit A in the contem-
plated divorce proceedings, makes the ideal
co-respondent. All co-respondents should
be ideal, and an untidy one is a calamity.
Miss Vera Spaull, in the unnecessary boy
part of “Buster,” emphasises that unneces-
sariness by failing to look in the least like a
boy.
“The Tripe of the Prairie,” now at Syd-
ney Adelphi, will be heaved clean out of the
vegetarian city of Sydney to-morrow night.
On Saturday “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” will let;
loose its bloodhounds and slavetraders, and
its Eliza fleeing over the frozen Ohio, and
its humble old black saint Thomas, and its
Sambo and Quimbo, and its wild-eyed Cassy,
and Aunt Chloe’s pies, and Aunt Dinah’s
disordered kitchen, and the flogging of Geo.
Harris’s sister (unless brown Miss Harris
and her damaged back are crowded out),
and tbe Quaker who threw Thomas Loker
down the precipice. Everybody ought to read
“Uncle T.” It was the world’s great effort
(done by a clever, hysterical woman who
washed but seldom, and had hardly ever
seen her cullud brudder except through a
telescope) to put Africa on a pedestal.
A copy of it should be bound in gold and
presented to Bruce Smith.
( Two weeks ago The Bulletin accused
Sydney Tivoli of having a most excellent
programme. As the Tiv. hasn’t entered a
protest, the accusation is repeated, mainly
because the show has only been changed to
the extent of adding to the bill of fare the
name of one Tucker, who would be much
more acceptable if he were Steak instead of
a singing violinist.
Among this week’s Sydney programmes :
Crystal Palace : “The War Makers,” alleged to
be the most thrillsome drama yet screened. Based
on the attempts of spies to get hold of valuable war
plans and the success of the usual woman in thwart-
ing them.
Lyric: “Madam Satan,” which is not a suffra-
gette’s autobiography, but the yarn of a woman who
turned upon society with such success that it takes
three reels to tell how.
Colonial: “Battle of Fort Laramie,” featuring
one of those Indian butchering scenes so dear to the
tender heart of Little Billie.
Empress: “Alexa’s Strategy,” a Russian yarn in
which blackmailing takes a pretty prominent part,
with love and one thing and another in the back-
ground.
West's Glaciarium and Olympia: “The Great
Circus Fire,” something extra in the way of mixed
grills. .
Lyceum : Reopens on Saturday for a week, after
a short spell, and then closes down again for a while.
Imperial: “The Love Lute of Romany.”
Julius Knight is still doing the diplomatic
bloodhound stunt at Sydney Royal, and
breaking up Irene Browne, the lurid young
Comtesse who hadn’t reckoned on a stylish
diplomatist putting up a performing dog
act and following her scented trail over his
desk. The next melodrama of the kind
should show a British ambassador named
Towzer or Fidq zig-zagging on his hands and
knees through Berlin in search of a stolen
treaty.
Henri Kubelik, the tricky musician, is
still the pivot of the National (Sydney)
programme. Surrounding him are Bevan
and Flint, the Aerial Bartletts, the Greater
City Four, the Juggling Normans, Moran
and Cahill, the Dare-Norwood Duo, Capt.
Brunswick and his cowboys, Le Witte, Jessie
Millar, and Biff and De Armo, all of whom
have found a welcome since they arrived
more than a week ago.
v v ❖
By strenuous sub-editing Wm. Anderson’s
American Burlesque Co. at the Palace (Syd-
ney) has this week been producing “The
Grafters” and “A Day at the Races” in the
one bill. It’s a lot of fun for the money.
Friday night will see the end of the show,
after which the co. will go on tour, with the
two pieces mentioned above. “The Specu-
lators” will be cold-storaged amongst the
failures. On Saturday night “The Laud
of Nod” will be produced for the ‘
praise or blue language of Sydney. The
niece was cantured in the U.S. by Priscilla
Verne for William Anderson, and has been
running in Melbourne since before
Christmas. When it was first produced
there The Bulletin described it thus:—
As far as it attempts to be a “phantasy ” it is
crudely suggestive of “The Blue Bird,” and as far
as it resembles a panto, it is a glorified perversion
of “The Grafters.”
Wherefore it appears to be somewhat varie-
gated, and striped like a zebra.
The last nights of that morality for every
woman who marries a widower, Pinero’s
brilliant comedy, “His House in Order,” are
announced at Sydney’s Little Theatre. But
it is not till Monday week that the second
production of this welcome season will be
presented. Hugh Buckler likes mixing his
plays, so from Pinero and Shaw he turns to
a revival of “David Garrick.”
Sydney’s White City is at the old address
in Rushcutter’s Bay, and if business has
slackened somewhat it is still prosperous. It
isn’t as prosperous as the Meat Ring, or the
Sugar Trust, or the Tory Newspaper Com-
bine ; but, on the other hand, it is not nearly
so poor as the moisture supply at the
Federal capital, or the Holman Government’s
resolve to be decently honest, in a political
sense, regarding the sinking fund. The main
open-air attractions at the park are Calvert,
high-wire perambulator, and the four Homaz,
who illustrate the art of physical culture
with muscles that suggest the tail of our
remote ancestor—he who pulled down trees
with his appendage.
“Come Over Here” is still coining for-
tunes weekly at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. In
fact. Rumor has it that the J.C.W. Co., over-
burdened by the dead weight of profits from
this and other ventures, proposes shortly to
insist on raising the wages of its employees
whether the latter like it or not. On the
other hand, veracity was never Rumor’s
strong suit.
Heat and Fleet have played together
against all Adelaide shows, and got the better
score. With Glenelg illuminated in honor of
visiting warships, and days at anything up
to 112°, the seaside air proved too strong,
particularly when you could mix it with
Pudney’s “Moths” and some good pictures.
Still, in the city, the Dandies’ friends re-
main faithful, and Tivoli-on-the-Oval has a
good programme, which would be better still
if some of the minor people were moved on
more rapidly. Ferry Corwey does some de-
lightful musical fooling, and Hugh Gannon
is now successfully ragging many inoffensive
songs. The King’s always gets quick
changes; notable turns now are Rozal and
Ross (knockabout jugglers), the Straub sis-
ters, and Gardiner’s “maniac” bulldogs,
which include ball-punching among their
feats. The best thing in sight among the
pictures is at West’s —Mary Pickford in a
sort of “Comedy and Tragedy” play.
* * * *
“The Rebel,” which came to pass at Melb.
Princess’s last Saturday, differs from Allen
Doone’s ordinary entertainment as ship’s
rum differs from lemon squash. It is droll
bellowdrama, wherein comedy is flavored
with corpse, and the villain wears an under-
vest of chain armor, and Doone astonishes
a pair of professional body snatchers by
escaping from prison in a coffin, begorra!
Also, he is supposed to be shot through the
coffin till he be dead, whilst the stiff ’un
whom he impersonated reclines on the cowld
ground of a dungeon cell, waiting for de-
composition to set in. “The Rebel” bristles
with deeds of violence, gruesome suggestions
and unconscious jokes. The funniest situa-
tion in the piece is when Doone strews the
floor with fallen representatives of British
force, what time Miss Keeley lies uncorp
scious in their midst. After which the vil-
lain recovers sufficiently to biff Doone with
a stick from behind. He was a trifle late
in dealing the blow last Saturday, and The
Bulletin got a humorous impression of
Doone standing with his gallant back to the
foe, waiting anxiously to be knocked out.
A blind pedlar’s curse falling on the wicked
Captain when he is drunk brings him to
richly merited grief. Owing to his blindness
the pedlar is the Captain’s chosen informer,
but after his duplicity has reduced him to
the verge of starvation the Captain denies
him even the smallest percentage of blood
money. Therefore the blind Mick curses his
faithless employer, with the result that
Doone takes advantage of the gentleman’s
insobriety to run a sword through his steel
undervest, and alb is well. These things hap-
pen in the roaring days of 1798, when Oire-
land was making an exceptional effort to
break the British yoke.
The rebellion puts no great strain on
Doone’s spectacular resources, for the pisan-
tr.v rise behind the scenes, and eight or 10
uniforms suffice to express the horrors of
civil war in Doone’s distressful counthry.
He, personally, is about the mildest-man-
nered insurgent who ever exchanged feeble
repartee with his best girl, but his song about
Ireland and Liberty is rewarded with an en-
ejore. and fie certainly appears a devil of a
fellow in comparison with the incompetent
pursuing villain, who succumbs to the Blind
Man’s Curse. The strong, raspy, Hibernian
voice of Tom Buckley delivers the aforesaid
curse. Farnham and Cullenane are notable


a
&
Ladies’ Tailor & Costumiere
(Late David Jones),
“Ocean House,”
MOORE STREET,
SYDNEY.
The clear view of this world obtained by
Hawker when high above it is nothing to
that inspired by the cheerful spirit of King
George IV. The keen vision of success
accompanies moderate appeals to that top-
notch whisky.*
BRAND
a;
STUHR.
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold bjr all High-Class Provision Dealers.
O. F. STUHR A CO.. Hamburg.
Indents through European Exporters only.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
among the also-rans. In praise of Miss
Keeley, in her customary character of swate
colleen, it may be said that she and Doone
have at least acquired the art of seeming to
naturalise insipid love scenes, even though
they are speaking their words with the
utmost attention to final syllables.
** * *
“Joseph and His Brethren.” at Melbourne
Royal, were struggling against a heat wave
last week; nevertheless the show improved
considerably in all respects, save the waits
between the scenes. The waits add too much
to the solemnity of the Biblical story, which
is particularly depressing when old man
Jacob takes the chair. The drama on its
own betrays no cause or reason for all the
deference shown to Jacob. He does nothing
to explain why he should be carried on at
the finish like an old and popular politician.
He lacks the forceful personality of Dad in
“On Our Selection.” One has to be Scriptur-
ally well informed of the hairy patriarch’s
importance in order to sympathise with his
family in their state of subjection to him,
and in any case no reasonable citizen can
account for the dutiful behavior of the
brethren who had dealt so roughly with the
old man’s pet offspring in the first act. They
didn’t worry about Father Israel when they
were dropping Joseph into the pit. As re-
gards the supposition that Judah, Levi, Dan,
Gad and other brethren repented of their
sin, it is clear that Simeon could never have
been converted to dutifulness. Simeon is
the bad egg of the family all the time. Mrs.
Potiphar spots him as a Hebrew of the deep-
est dye, and it is her unblushing confession
at an interview with scowling Sim, under the
shade of Cheop’s sheltering tomb, which
causes Potiphar to put her eyes out. All
things considered, Simeon’s half-hearted at-
tempt to commit suicide, at the finish is the
author’s, saddest mistake. The male villain
of the piece should have lighted an Egyptian
cigarette and laughed derisively.
The 10th week of “The Forty Thieves” is
now proceeding in Melbourne, and the audi-
ences at Her Majesty’s are still joining in
the chorus of “Whoops! let’s do it again.”
Lately the temperature rose against the
panto and tried to give it what the loud lady
of the large bloomers calls “a kidney punch
in the small of the back,” but the warm per-
spiring annual pegged away as usual until
the temperature fell exhausted. Nothing but
an earthquake would be worth backing
against the panto.
“The Ninety and Nine,” produced at Mel-
bourne King’s on Saturday, is another long
tale of rum and riot, wherein Derrink is
once more arraigned and given the usual
deplorable character. This verdict is unani-
mously delivered after two or three hours
of absorbing narrative, wherein Tom Silver-
ton wastes his substance in alcohol and
spurns the cold water that tempers the
tanglefoot to the burnt stummick. Tom,
however, has good intentions within him, and
it is Ruth. Blake, the belle of Boronia, who
develops his tastes along lines of skim milk
and buttered muffins, and helps him to a
seat among the Righteous. During his re-
form, of course, he has many relapses to the
bad old regimen of whisky for dinner and a
headache for breakfast. Also he has to re-
fute charges of theft and murder and ex-
plain a passage with a lady of temporary
virtue. But he clears up everything to the
satisfaction of the district, and finally, before
marrying Ruth, makes himself a subject for
a statue by driving a train through blazing
scenery and . rescuing a township from immi-
nent cremation. The hero is represented by
Guy Hastings, who is a capable mummer in
the first two acts, and fairly successful when
subsequently he lias to descend into conver-
sational English. As Mark Beveridge, Rich-
ard Bellairs is no better than one who might
have learnt his acting by correspondence;
Bert Bailey, as Dick Sassafras, lightens the
proceedings with airy badinage; and Ned
Duggan’s heavy dad seems accurate in the
avoirdupois. On the side of the ladies, Miss
Oakley, as Ruth, hides most of her reputed
talents ; Miss Alfreda Bevan, as Mrs. Blake,
provides a feast of hard-featured acting to
make a Melbourne holiday: Miss Lilias
Adeson is an adventuress condemned to com-
parative silence and out-of-date clothes; and
Miss Laura Roberts presents a broguey
damsel in a cheerful manner. Scenic details
are by Robert Vaughan, who, though he
fails to limn the landscape charmingly,
paints corrugated iron and railway lines with
imposing realism.
The Bulletin failed to notice chair-
balancet De Fra at Melb. Opera House
matinee on Saturday, but caught a glimpse
of the Royal Quartette, two of whom make
rowdy music while the other two prance in
dowdy clothes. Adelaide Waldorf, the
double-voiced vocalist, has a good deal of
excuse for displaying her gift; but Heather
Belle’s dancing continues to be monotony
unadorned, while James Fraser’s ragtime
remains too ragged for words. Josephine
Davis. Du Calion. the Romanos and Petleys
are as entertaining as before.
In Melbourne, last Saturday. T. J. West
related the royal career of N. Bonaparte
with enough detail to, suggest that the film-
maker knew the Emperor intimately. The
picture practically diarises Nap.’s official life
from coronation to, St. Helena, and affords
vivid jottings of the scuttle from Moscow
when the arrogant warrior plagiarised Dave
Smith by mislaying his strategy and losing
his punch. The strong meat of the fiction
department was a long shocker, wherein an
outwardly respectable citizen lives the double
life with considerable effect.
* * h= *
Another scrap of Art: —
The mole-colored walls of the Upper Athenaeum.
Melbourne, are now mottled with the paintings of
Mr. and Mr. Montagu Marks, who both happen to be
young and talented. Mrs. Marks, the miniaturist of
the combination, shows several little things which
are good enough to make Bess Norris sit up and take
notes. Some bright children peer engagingly from
sundrv frames. Lady Barttelot can scarcely contain
herself in another. A Westralian Judge, in red robes
and a puckered chin, is a solemn, masculine intrusion
into the gay feminine company. The young matron
also contributes one or two oils, the view of her
hubby (looking like Chopin just convalescing after
an attack of genius), being a message of glad tid-
ings to all in doubt about the artist’s talent. Monty
Marks is a serious-minded young reporter of sea
breezes, moonscapes and cows in the gloaming.
Some of his cows gloam beautifully. He shows also
some desperately realistic glimpses of Trafalgar
Square and other familiar haunts of the overseas
tourist. One river scene, which might be mistaken
for the Grand Canal, Venice, spanned by the Brook-
lyn Bridge, is a jotting of Battersea at a time of
night when only burglars and Dolieemen ought to be
out of bed.
“JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN," AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Simeon (Edward
O'Neill).
Joseph (Malcolm
Tearle) returns
from prison.
A shower of pictures in Melbourne: —
A number of Ivan A. Rosenblurri’s landscapes are
now occupying frames at Bernard’s Gallery. The
best thing is a bit of Werribee showing a quiet
background and running water, all pitched in a
sombre, doleful key. His half-acre of tragedy,
“Doomed,” with a siren suffering from a meat
famine, apparently beckoning an ocean liner to Davy
Jones, is the sort of offering that might brighten an
undertaker’s sitting-room. In some smaller subjects,
such as “Haunt of the Wild Duck” and “Mystic Eve,”
the artist strives for good color-effects and achieves
something with a distinct resemblance to scenery.
The remainder are mostly conventional slabs of land
and water demonstrating Ivan’s strong faith in a
rich, ruddy sunset. Sunsets are well enough in
moderation, but when an artist positively welters
in the gore of the dying sun, one can’t help thinking
that he may be a slaughterman who has taken to
painting for a change.
It is officially reckoned that during 1918
the population of Sydney increased by
30,600, and the population of all the rest of
the huge State of N.S.W. by about 22,900.
It is a very poor look-out for the rest of the
State, but then, according to the Congestion
policy, the whole business of the community
is to bloat Sydney, and the balance of the
country doesn’t matter worth 6d.
If Britain were involved in 'a war with
Germany, Kaiser Bill might perhaps paralyse
Australian defence by the simple process of
cutting off the ammunition supply. When
200,000 rounds of our ammunition were con-
demned the other day it was discovered that
every cartridge of it was fitted with a made-
in-Germany cup and cap or primer. The
Germans do not use coi-dite in their service
rifle's, so the only cordite primers made there
are for export. And Britain and British
Dominions seem to be the chief markets.
When the Victorian military people came to
look into the matter it was discovered that
of £5603 worth of primers imported into
Victoria during the last half of 1913
no less than £3799 worth were made
in Germany, and only £lBO4 worth
emerged from Britain. It is bad
enough to import such essentials of defence
even from Britain, but to get them from a
possible and potential enemy is the sort of
thing that makes one think the Defence show
is run by a Hatter and a March Hare.
AT POVERTY POINT.
From an Australian woman in Paris: Went to see
Sarah Bernhardt take the name part in “Jeanne
Dore,” a play written by her son, and in which her
grandson takes second lead. 1 had just previously
seen a snapshot of her, and in it she looked every da}'
of her 70 years. She suffers from chronic rheuma-
tism, and is unable to walk a yard without a' support;
so she has now simultaneously, to hide this defect,
look something less than her 7Q; yefars, arid act lifer
part—-and she does the lot. She is still the great
actress. Her voice is singularly beautiful and she can
still draw the town, judging by the crowded theatre,
though the piece had been running then several
weeks.
In one Melbourne daily’s advertisement of the
Royal Show it was printed: “Josephs and His
Brethren.” Naturally the Chosen filled the theatre.
They expected a resurrection of Alf and the bookies
of a past generation.
“Stargazer”: “The Forty Thieves,” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, have shown remarkable professional activity
if only in stealing the gags. The entertainment is
littered with the most pitiful collection of chestnuts
it has ever been my misfortune to find assembled on
one stage. It was high time someone opened a
Home for Decayed Jokes, and here it is. They are
the jokes no one laughs at; they inspire the same
feeling as a hot Sunday afternoon’s walk in a
Crowded cemetery. A manager said to me: “No
good, old boy; the people want the ancient jokes.
They don’t like the new ones.” “How do you know?”
I replied. “You are condemning your audiences
without a trial.”
“0.K.”: Is there some magic in the name of Parker
that causes it to be associated with theatrical adap-
tations of famous literary works? Parker —now “Sir”
Gilbert—was accountable for the intensely vulgar-
ised version of “Faust,” wherein the Devil, watching
Marguerite’s treatment of the casket of jewels arid
the bouquet of flowers, says “Diamonds win in a
canter. Vegetables not in it.” And another Parker
- —Louis Napoleon—got the job Of melodramatising
the Bible story of Joseph, with the result that Mrs.
Potiphar is presented as a lurid villainess who visits
the prison where Joseph is confined, and orders the
boss gaoler to raise a conspicuous trapdoor and drop
his inspired captive into a damp dungeon. This other
Parker —the untitled one —-is now at work on a
dramatisation of “David Copperfield” for Beerbohm
Tree, and if that brings money in he will possibly
get an order to prepare “Paradise Lost” and “Gil
Bias” for the stage. Blessed is the name of Parker!
Oh first pay-day at Melbourne Royal, after “Joseph
and His Brethren” was put in hand, one of the
specially-engaged Yiddish supers, counting over his
takings, snorted aloud: “Vot! Don’d I get no lriftre
as Cohn?” “Why should you?” .asked the gifted
management. “Vy shouldn’t I?” wailed the super-
man. “Selp me, aind’t my nose tviee as long;?” U-
“Ami”: Fred Appleton, once a favorite Melbourne
actor, is dead. Before coming from England as a
young man, he was stage-struck by Brooke’s' farewell
London performances, at Drury Lane in 1854. Apple-
ton settled at Heathcote as a clerk, and was the
best local dramatic amateur. This opened up the
path to the Melbourne boards. He appeared in
Ooppin’s little wooden theatre, the Pantheon, where
Rose Edouin and Ireland also figured. He next pro-
ceeded to the Theatre Royal. Barry Sullivan did not
engage him, but after Sullivan’s time, Appleton was
for a number of years at the Royal, where he was a
favorite, despite his stilted manner. He even advanced
to Romeo, but excelled in parts like Captain Haw-
tree, in “Caste,” and Lord Beaufoy, in “School.”
When cheap actors, imported by Coppin, displaced
him and others, he luckily had a second string to
his bow. He had studied for the Bar, and was a
8.A., and this came in handy when he turned to
school-teaching at Fitzroy. Mrs. Appleton (Jenny
BryCe) was valuable on the stage as a soubrette, and
excelled in the Maggie Moore line of character parts.
She was welcome in the Christmas Pantomimes —was
principal boy, as Little Boy Blue, in Marcus Clarke’s
“Goody Two Shoes,” 1870.
A good many old playgoers, now of Australia, can
remember Mrs. Billington in Londom as a capital
actress of rough matron parts. Her husband, John
Billington, came to Australia with J. L. Toole years
ago. After her retirement from the stage she did
very well as a teacher of acting, and then, being a
genial old soul, she was called upon to accept the
proceeds of a mighty fine benefit performance and
testimonial. Mrs. Billington became as it were the
honored granny of the profesh, and her birthdays are
now duly recorded by the press. It seems that she was
90 last month, and that she played Mrs. Cregan in
the first production of “The Colleen Bawn” in 1860.
Evidently Mrs. Billington must have resisted the
awful temptations of an actress’s life, of which the
Wowsers speak. Or else the late hours and suppers
and general ungodliness must have agreed with her.
“Melb”: Neptuna, showing with “The Daffodils” at
St. Kilda Beach, is quite outdoing Annette Keller-
man. So wondrous are her antics in the glass tank
that there have been cries of “Fake!” The manage-
ment therefore invited scrutiny, and the inexplicable
feats remained unexplained. Neptuna lolls under
water just as if there were none; she reads, smokes
and talks, and stops under a good deal longer than
the Kellergirl could. And still aspersions were made,
wherefore Neptuna - now invites all hands to come
and see her in the genuine Ocean in Kenney’s Baths,
between nine and ten on Sabbath mornings—-the sad,
sinful time when Mixed Bathing is allowed.
The S. M. Herald knows so much about the
extreme rarity of the Ma State atmosphere and the
difficulty of flying in it (or flying kites in it) that
the performance of Hawker, last Saturday, must
strike it as illtimed and unmannerly.-w, To see the
enthroned Hawker rush upstairs into the thin blue
and skate down the invincible curling banisters of
the sky with the fishtail of his machine pointed
derisively at high Heaven, one would never have
guessed that he had been warned indirectly by the
cautious old winding-sheet that he was attempting
the impossible, or what had been judged impossible
for the Australian military aviators. Hawker would
have shown no more than proper respect for the
judgment of his betters if he had fallen, or failed
to get up. Under certain conditions nothing is so
disrespectful as success.
James E. Moore, who died last week at Petersham
(Sydney), was brother of Maggie, and himself for
many years connected with the theatre in Australia
and Maoriland as manager. He was. born in Sari
Francisco, where his father was a contractor in an
extensive way. He came to Australia in 1874 as
manager for Maggie Moore and .1. C. Williamson —
“the ‘Struck Oil’ couple,” as they were called in
those days. Later he was treasurer for Williamson,
Garner and Musgrove. Mr. Moore, who was 58 years
of age, died suddenly of heart disease following on a
long spell of ill-health.
The MacMahon chain of picture theatres has been
feeling more than usually prosperous since brother
Charki let loose that striking series, “London by
Day and by Night,” which he had cinematographed
under his own direction and supervision while in the
city where the suffragette is forcibly fed and so many
other people have to be forcibly hunted off the steps
of the Sal. Army shelter because there isn’t sufficient
food to go round. (A lengthy parenthesis about the
advantages of the Chinese method of hiring a proxy
to be executed in your stead might come in here
The folly of giving forcible dinner to a rich woman,
when 20,000 poor women could be hired for a mere
trifle to take the same dinner without any unseemly
scuffle, or any attempt to kick the soup bowl into
smithereens, is too obvious to require explanation).
By way of returning to the original subject, “London
by Day and by Night” is filling Brisbane Lyceum to
the doors, and Melbourne will be squashed to death
by the same show, at J. and N. Tait’s Auditorium,
during a three-weeks’ season, commencing on March
7. Already coffins have been ordered.
The musical critic of a Sydney evening paper puts
it delicately: “Leoncavallo has conducted the first per-
formance in America of his new opera, ‘I Zingara,’
in the final scene in which the jealous hero sets fire
to the tent where his faithless gipsy wife and her
lover are interchanging ideas.” Faithless gipsy wives
are whales for ideas.
Moan of a notable act-or heard in Melbourne: “I
get £5O a week, but have to squander it in keeping
up the pretence that I get £100.”
“Rosna” (from London) : London is suffering from
an attack of Futurist music. The principal perpe-
trator is Arnold Schonberg, whos noises sound like
an earthquake and a volcanic eruption having a dis-
agreement with a flock of trumpeting elephants and
a shoal of cats. Some players, practising one of
Schonberg’s “tunes” in a Continental hotel, lately
created a young riot, all the other guests threaten-
ing to leave if the din were not turned off at the
meter. The same outbreak was hissed by Paris audi-
ences, and even a tame British Queen’s Hall crowd
has succeeded in looking pained after an hour of
Schonberg’s contortions for the orchestra. On the
Queen’s Hall occasion the composer, being a doughty
soul, came to personally conduct his cataclysm. He
is a shy-looking, bald, clean-shaven man, and, in a
spirit of nice revenge, the reception committee hosed
him with some of his own noises.
Australian smudge circles will be interested in
the announcement that Gerald Ashton, youngest son
of George Rossi Ashton and nephew' of the veteran
Julian, is engaged to marry a daughter of Thorney-
croft, the English sculptor. George Rossi long ago
was The Bulletin artist in Melbourne and did the
weekly page which now'bears Alf Vincent’s signa-
ture. He married a bonny daughter of old George
Coppin, and some years after his return to England
he took to the music-hall stage and became a black-
and-white sketcher. Afterwards he introduced his
wife into the busihess, and at latest dates they were
doing a “turn,” with himself as artist, Mrs. G.R.A.
as the model, and another man as the patron who
comes along to the studio to buy a picture.
Oliver Morosco, the American manager whose rise
has been meteoric, has suggested a scheme for reduc-
ing the expenditure on initial play-productions. He
suggests that every new play should have it first pro-
duction at a special, jointly-owned theatre in N’York,
which would employ a company of star artists. No
play should run more than three weeks, however
successful. At the end of that time its strength
as a moneymaker could be gauged, and it could be
shifted elsewhere or put rieht out of harm’s way.
Altogether, the scheme is about the most trenchant
criticism yet offered of theatrical managers’ know-
ledge of their business. “So incapable are we of
telling a good play when we see it, that good, bad
and indifferent must be thrown on, and the public
permitted to pick for itself”—that’s what the scheme
amounts to. And this paper is much too polite to
argue the point with Morosco, he being a stranger
in these parts.
“Cockaigne” ; : Here are Viscount Dangan and the
Earl of Garrick coruscating on the stage, though they
can’t act. Now a snobby manager hooks on Gas-
coigne Cecil, grandson of ex-Prime Minister Salisbury.
His father is the Rev. Lord AVilliam Cecil. Gas-
coigne, engaged in “After the Girl” at the Gaiety, is
the giddy youth who was sent down from Oxford in
1908 for being out late. A policeman found him
at four o’clock on the Lord’s Day morning chucking
pebbles at a window. The Rev. William thereupon
wrote a letter to the Times with the following pas-
sage. “I protest against the modern University plan
of employing clumsy, lower-class policemen to keep
high-spirited gentlemen in order. The poor boys, who
have no criminal intent, but plenty of the high spirits
of innocent and pure youth, find themselves in a police
court, with all its concomitant degradation and pub-
lieity.” Now you see what the pollution ends in—-
the poor boy has got down to the stage!
From London: “Within the Law,” which reached
its 250th London performance at Christmas, is being
played six evenings and four afternoons every week at
the Ilaymarket. Every lady attending at the 21st
birthday of “Charley’s Aunt” at the Prince of Wales’s
received a really worth-while souvenir—a Doulton copy
of Toft’s statuette of Penley (now dead) as the Aunt.
In the revival of “The Darling of the Gods,” Tree
himself is the only member of the cast that played
it originally, 10 years ago. The rush of novelists
on to the stage continues. Maurice Hewlett is to
produce a new play (scene, old-time Venice, with
plenty of rapier thrusts), and Charles Garvice drama-
tises his own “Heritage of Hate,” which is just
what it sounds as if it would be.
EASY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Playwriting was easy. His only difficulty was to
find euphonious names, and he referred for help to the
local directory or telephone book. He dictated the
play in a week. —Evidence of melodramatist Melville
in recent London law suit.
He says it’s an easy job !
That’s a bit of a riddle to me:
First he’s got to find names for a terrible mol)
Of characters, they’ll be dug out of his “nob.”
Or the local directory.
Then he has to dictate the play,
For he scorns pens, paper and ink.
As a dramatist he’s in a wholesale way,
When he starts he keeps at it the whole of the day,
And I doubt if he stops for a drink.
His typist faints at the keys,
Then another one takes his place ;
On, on with the drama—it’s dead' sure to please,
When brought out ’twill bring him in fabulous fees.
On, on—never slacken the pace!
Till the final act is done,
And the last word “Curtain” is writ,
And “The Beggar Girl’s Bedding,” as sure as a gun,
When in less than a month it starts its run,
Will make a phenomenal hit.
And “playwriting’s easy,” says he,
But that’s what puzzles me quite:
To think that “The Worst Girl in Bloomsbury,”
Or “The Maid of the Marmalade Factory,”
Takes nearly a week to write !
VICTORIA.
PINERO IBSENSHAW.
THE ALTERNATIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was the Twin Star Company,
Camped all forlorn beneath a tree.
The Twin Star Company was glum,
Sans cash, sans bread and meat and rum.
And soberly the beggars sat
A-drawing papers from a hat.
“ ’Tis- breakfast, friends!” said one with glee.
The crew looked at him wolfishly.
“What is this thing you do?” said I.
(Methought a pro. was doomed to die.)
One pointed to a tub of paste,
And answered me with little haste:
“We draw lots if we’ll eat our fill, sir,
Or use the paste to stick the bills, sir.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


THE D.J. VACUUM FLASK
■ 2/11 -
Invaluable for Travellers, the Sickroom or Nursery.
This flask possesses all the qualities of higher-priced flasks, and
will preserve the same temperature for 24 hours of either boiling-
hot or ice-cold liquids. It has a brown Metal Body, Nickel
Cup, and will hold one pint.
TRICE ONLY 2/11
Carriage Free to any place in Australasia.
David Jones, Ltd.,
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
m .
a
■ I
m
Pratt’s
Spirit
for Your
Motor
SOCIETY
“The Religious. Editor”: While the
echoes of the latest Anglican Church riot
are rumbling (the row commenced in Africa
at a place appropriately called Kikuyu, or
Kick-You-Three-Times), the sad news
comes to hand that the supply of fresh
young curates is lamentably short, and that,
in consequence, the afternoon tea of Eng-
land has to be carried round to the squire’s
guests by ordinary laymen. The religious
press is full of shouts for reverend help
from a thousand rectories, and vicars wring
their white hands because young men are
not coming forward to accept the £5O or so
that hangs to the job of junior parson. One
reason is that the worn-out Anglican
curate, who can no longer carry the after-
noon tea without spilling it or at-
tract the old maids, is often allowed to fade
away into poverty-stricken obscurity by the
bosses of the Anglican Church, and appar-
ently even the good young man is beginning
to see that the game is not worth the candle
-—-even with the beef tea and knitted woollen
socks thrown in. He sees the £lO,OOO a year
archbishop inflating himself next to Royalty
and amusing himself with uncharitable hair-
splitting rows about dogma, and, if he isn’t
quite blind, he must realise that there is
something wrong in the old vineyard that
used to belong to the Lord. The Lord
never had £lO.OOO a year, or sweated any-
one who worked for Him, or turned away a
faithful toiler when he was done. And He
was invariably courteous and friendly,
and never, never split hairs. The great
business of Christianity started to crumble
when His great personality was withdrawn.
The arrogant Anglican archbishop of to-day
is the cheap clerk in holy orders who has
been hoisted to the directorate owing to the
pitiful disorganisation of an old and re-
spected firm.
Whenever a number of religious people
get together to advance the cause of
Christianity by opening a school or laying
the foundation-stone of a church, the
speakers proceed to uppercut their oppo-
nents for the stousli they got off when open-
ing the orphanage last week. And the
verbal uppercutting is always swift and
vigorous, by reason of the constant practice
the suburban saints provide for themselves.
Last week it was the turn of the Green Pig
representatives to reply to some contempt-
able remarks of the Pup. and they did so
in this fashion :
Mr. J. G. Duffy, after welcoming liis Grace, said
he had recently been made the subject of a vicious,
venomous and wholly unprovoked attack from an
Orange platform. He brushed such things off his
mind just as he would dash an obnoxious creature
that was crawling on him off his sleeve. They did
him no harm.
And also in this: —
Dr. Mannix, who was wamrly cheered on rising to
speak, said he regarded Mr. Duffy as a dear old
friend, and deeply repretted that Mr. Duffy should
have had cause to complain of personal attacks by
nameless creatures.
After reading that, the Pup fled 39 times
round its dogmatic backyard with its chain
streaming behind it, before retiring with a
final crash to its kennel to think out some-
thing new.
A chance that was thrown at Adelaide
through daily-paper advts. last week: —
WANTED, Lady, to travel in waggon in country,
to do plain cooking, good wages. Apply, “Gentle-
man,” , Adelaide.
No mere woman will do; she who would
travel in the waggon and fry the chop and
burn the damper must be a lady—as the
waggoner is a gentleman. But, mark you,
with no frills to his appetite. No nine-course
banquet does he demand that the lady pro-
duce for him from the fry-pan and the billy
and the fire that won’t burn, the cow-dung
being too damp to make perfect fuel, and
wood unobtainable. Plain cooking—he asks
no more.
The S.A. Government’s motor-car and its
driver have been fined for exceeding the
speed-limit in the country town of Gawler.
A young lawyer made a sporting attempt to
argue that they were servants of the Crown,
and therefore superior to all laws, but the
magistrates were not taking any of that.
The fine was £2 and
costs, with a “stay of
proceedings for seven
days,” presumably to
give “the Crown” time
to raise the money.
The Crown is sup-
posed to be out after
dark pawning its other
pair of pants.
THE IRREVERENCE
OF YOUTH.
“Now you needn’t deny it. I saw him kiss
you. I never dreamt that he would do
such a thing.”
“Neither did I. In fact, I bet him a tie to a
fair of gloves that he wasn’t game. Lend
me half a crown, uncle, to buy the necktie.”
This week’s bun for casualness goes to a
Melbourne girl, who, while visiting Geelong
on one of the bay steamers with her best boy,
left him for a few moments, was delivered
of a male infant, and resunted the business
of holiday-making as though nothing had
occurred. So well did she play her part, in-
deed, that the police had a hard job to find
the owner of an astounded baby, who was
found lying around, on his own, some time
later. The national hatred of making a fuss
about things can be overdone.
THE RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
Under the regime of the new Minister of Health, Mr. J. D. Brown, arrangements are to he made fo
co-operate with the police in banishing from the streets of the city women of an undesirable class.
—Melbourne news item.
P.C. BROWN: “Move on!”
LAIS: “Move on? 'Ere, why don't you move him on? He brought me here?”
“X.P.D.” : Apropos of the dearth of shoot-
ing material for Australian soldiers and
cadets (B. 29/1/T4), I’d like to say some-
thing of the trouble here in Queens- ]
land. I know a half-company of over (
50 senior cadets which, when it goes 1
to the range, takes less than a dozen 1
rifles for the crowd. The reason is 1
that the half-com-
pany is usually
allotted only three or
four targets to shoot
at. Every rifileman
—l’m an old hand at
the game myself—
knows that it’s
nearly impossible to
make a marksman of
a lad who has to-be
continually changing
his rifle. The tricks
and sighting of a
weapon have to be
known before one
really begips to learn
how to hit anything
with it. On a recemt
occasion the range
was so crowded that
while one squad was
firing, a second lot,
in the rear, was
plugging away at
the same targets. It
may be good prac-
tice for war to get
used to bullets
whizzing over your
head, but considering
the low trajectory of
modern rifle fire and
the bad ammunition
that may cause a bul-
let to drop half-way,
it seems good enough
to leave out that sort
of risk till the real war comes.
A commercial traveller’s desperate eager-
ness to get business at any price recently
got one of the craft into a serious position.
He was employed by a Melbourne firm of
typewriting suppliers, and he invented a sys-
tem of roping in customers by making un-
authorised allowances or rebates on prices,
the said allowances being made out of the
firm’s money. The business-getter appar-
ently hoped in a vague way to be able to
refund the cash so used, but before the
problem solved itself the deficiency was dis-
covered, and he found himself prosecuted
on a charge of embezzling £37. Judge
Eagleson, before whom the case was tried,
pointed out that, if the facts were as stated,
the unfortunate maker of allowances was
not guilty of embezzlement at all, and that
the firm, to whom he had paid back £l2,
should refund that amount to him. The
Crown Prosecutor then took his cue and in-
formed his Honor that there could be no
objection to accused amending his plea of
“guilty.” But the shattered bagman just
groaned something to the effect that he had
suffered enough already and would rather
that the whole accursed thing were closed
down there and then. His Honor said he
had no hesitation in allowing accused out
on a bond of £lO and one surety of £lO. It
was a clear case of an uncommercial person
taking to commerce for a living and finding
that he hadn’t enough teeth and claws for
the job.
THE MAN
WHO IS A LI.
RIGHT.
CONFIRMED VEGE-
TARIAN: “This
is where I've got
'em beet !"
Christabel Pankhurst is said to have come
to the conclusion that militant suffragetting
has done more harm than good to the cause
tM f r d r:
unfed* In short, the fan Christabel reckons
that the old game is played out, and Woman
must proceed to get her vote (in Britain)
by peaceful agitation. The allegation afore-
said is not supported by recent happenings,
Only last week a suffragette assaulted an
old lord in the street, and then proposed to
soothe him with an apology for having
knocked him down in mistake for Asquith,
But it is more than possible that Christabel
has grow weary of militancy. For nearly
two years she kept out of England to avoid
arrest, and when at last she ventured within
easy reach of the warrant she was promptly
nabbed by the police and conveyed to “quod”
on a butcher’s cart. This awful indignity
may have changed her views.
THE CURATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Thursday.—Thomas Ghent, curate of St.
Andrew's, Stockwell. has summoned Mrs. Fitzgerald,
wife of Sergeant Fitzgerald, for striking him with a
handbag in a street at Stockwell.— Cablegram.
Pound Number One: With, mincing grace
The curate lifts his wee black tile,
And quite a reverend, blissful smile
Beams like a radiance on his face,
As she, a member of his flock,
Approaches him with rustling frock —
The time is tea-and-cakes o’clock.
Bound Number Two: Within her eyes
There lurks an angry glare that leaves
Small doubt of her intent, and grieves
The curate’s conscience and defies
His little suckling, lamblike smirk,
So reminiscent of the kirk—
And, then, the lady gets to work.
Round Number Three: The combat’s on.
Her handbag to attack she brings,
And with a dirty right she swings
Her reticule, and lands upon
The curate’s shell-like, perfect ear;
The pain is more than he can bear,
But all he says is, “Dear, O dear!’’
Bound Number Four: Gee-wliiz! What ho!
The lady leads right-cross, left-hook;
Her fighting is not by the book,
But Oh, she makes a willing go,
And as she pelts her blows like rain
On eyes, on nose, on ears again,
The curate’s parries are in vain.
Bound Number Five: An utter rout;
Her handbag she no longer grips,
Since nought remains of it but strips.
As with intent to knock him out,
Side-tracked by nought, by nought beguiled,
Upon the curate, meek and mild,
She rushes, shrieking loud and wild.
Bound Number Six: He does not wait,
But calling loudly, “Lord, O Lord!
Much speed in this my need afford!”
He flees him with irreverent gait,
And curate coat-tails fill the air,
Likewise long wisps of curate hair,
With rag-and-bobtail ends of prayer.
Round Number Seven: All is o’er,
The fleeing curate’s reputation
Is like the lady’s transformation,
A thing to muse on and deplore.
Yet....if who fights and runs away
Shall live to fight another day.
“Lord, Lord, let me be there, I pray.”
QUEENSLAND.
KUSCOBIN.


THE LATEST in SHIRTING.
"Selayne
(Regd.)
Flannel
AS A FLANNEL
IT STANDS ALONE
For Gentlemen of Fashion.
hi
I
HI
Fcaola
Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s.' 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
ĥ
Seamless Half-Hose
with colored Silk Clocks.
This is a line that will appeal to men because of the
neatness in design, and the comfort of the all-wool
Cashmere of which the socks are made. There are
no seams. The dye is fast; and the weight is light
for hot weather wear. In Black Cashmere, with em-
broidered fancy clocks in Blue, Red or White Silk.
2s. Per Pair; Half-dozen Pairs, 11s. 6d.
For comfort, service and appearance these socks are
well worthy of selection. Please state BOOT SIZE
when ordering. New Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
“Wonn”: Governor Gipps and his Legisla-
tive Council in 1841 found that the practice
of shooting on the Lord’s Day for pleasure
and profit “greatly prevailed in some parts
of the Colony of N. S. Wales, to the mani-
fest dishonor of religion,” and that it was
“expedient to prohibit so scandalous and
indecent a practice,” and to punish persons
who might be guilty of so offending, or of
carrying a firearm on that day, by fining
them not less than 40 shillings nor more
than five pounds. That is the material part
of the preamble to the Act that is still in
force in Victoria. By the irony of fate it
was in Gippsland, which honors the old
Governor in its name, that a prosecution
under the Wowser Act was lately under-
taken. A family party took boats and guns
down the Latrobe for a trifle of rabbit-
shooting. The police got word of the in-
famous picnic, and met the revellers on their
return at the Sale wharf. They were there
bailed up, and eight of them faced the local
I\M. in due course. As the Act laid it down
clearly that it was unlawful to carry fire-
arms on the Sabbath, their only hope was
in showing that they did not carry firearms ;
and they sustained their point by pleading
that articles which might be a firearm if
assembled were not a firearm when in pieces
and stowed away in a case. The P.M.
thought hard, and gave them the benefit of
the doubt. But it is a rotten Act that’ fines
a man 40 shillings for carrying a gun in the
wilds of Gippsland even if it doesn’t happen
to be in two pieces.
A deputation called on Vic. Attorney-
General Mackinnon the other day and asked
for the appointment of a State Defender, as
well as a State Prosecutor, with equal
powers and resources ; also that the law costs
of persons acquitted of criminal charges
should be paid by the State or the informant,
and that magistrates should be empowered
to order the latter to part up. Mackinnon re-
plied that ethically, the claim was unim-
pugnable; that it was undoubtedly the duty
of the State to defend as well as prosecute,
and to compensate citizens unjustifiably put
to monetary and other loss, but the innova-
tion required deep consideration; the cost
would be considerable and the State was im-
pecunious, not to say hard up; so, though
lie would lay the matter before his colleagues
he offered little hope—and less satisfaction.
The Attorney-General really had a good case,
but perhaps he was afraid to present it.
The Vic. police department is so undermanned
and underbrained and underpaid and run
down that it seldom captures a criminal of
importance unless he actually carries the
body to the’ police station and lays it on the
desk. And even when it makes some kind
of a show on a really good case the offender
generally gets off through the incapacity of
the prosecution. If he was defended by the
State in addition to his other sins he would
probably get off every time. In fact, it
wouldn’t require any great rush of State
Defence to lead to the judge being hanged
instead of the prisoner. Mackinnon might
have said all this and thereby supplied a lot
of interesting and immortal truth to the daily
nress. But hidebound precedent prevented
him.
-• * * *
If one listens to all he hears it is the “well-
paid union agitator” who always brings about
a strike ; but facts are frequently a jangling
discord. Thus it came about in Melbourne
the other day that the organised employees
in the three largest artificial manure-making
establishments considered whether they
would or would not strike for an increase in
wages from Bs. to 10s. per day. They de-
cided not to do so, but while they were pon-
dering the 54 employees of a small factory,
which the union had apparently overlooked,
curtly told their employer they wanted 10s.
a day for their arduous and particularly un-
pleasant work, and failing to get it unani-
mously ceased toiling. As they were all non-
unionists Fat was taking the count at time
of writing and wondering in a dazed way if
Bro. J. T. Packer was a cure for this back-
kick.
INDIFFERENCE TO EXPENSE.
SMALL GIRL: “Ma , isn’t it extravagant of Mrs. Jones? She's gone an had two
babies at once."
CLEARING THE GROUND.
"You don't play or sing, I [?]ank , Miss
Smith?"
" No. ”
“ Nor sketch or paint?"
“No."
“Don’t you even do chip-
carving?"
“I’m afraid I have no
accomplishments. ”
“ Ermyntrude, I love
you! ”
“Meat-Eater” writes
A feature of the Sydney meat trouble was £he
frenzied assurance of both parties as to their desire
to save the public any inconvenience; while each
collection of unreliables was doing all it could to
inconvenience the said public with a view to putting
the blame on the other fellow. The master butchers
allowed a minority of 52 to bluff a majority of 548
who were agreeable to a settlement, and to help that
recalcitrant 52 accomplish the dislocation of the
city’s meat supply the carcase butchers deliberately
locked out their slaughtermen on Friday morning.
On the Sunday, when the bulk of the slaughtermen
had gone to a fishing camp at Woy Woy, these car-
case angels suddenly changed their tactics and
announced that the pens would be open for cow-
murder on Monday morning at the usual hour. They
were, and the bells were rung as a signal to start
work. But no steps had been taken to let the
slaughtermen know, and, consequently, the cow re-
mained alive. The carcase gentlemen then announced
that the slaughtermen had struck in sympathy with
the meat-servers, and everything was at a standstill,
except the cow, which waiked about in the paddock.
The slaughtermen were foolish enough to stay away
and allow this cunning lie to become a fact, and the
slaughtermen of the Riverstone works, the proprie-
tors of which have always fought the Glebe Inland
ring, dropped their apparatus and played into the
hands of the carcase gang. The employees’ union
then announced that it would buy stock and supply
the shops that had agreed to give the wage
and shorter shours, but as Minister Estell would not
cancel the leases of the slaughtering pens at Glebe
Island, the employees had no facilities for slaughter-
in, and that scheme went overboard. Meanwhile
both parties went on shouting about their desire to
give the public meat, and the harder they strove
and shouted to give it meat, the less meat the public
got. ' .
Minister Estell missed an opportunity \n cdnnection
with the Sydney meat trouble. Had he arrested the
leaders of the Fat Stock Buyers’ Association for
locking out the slaughtermen, and run in the leaders
of the men’s union for organising a strike, he would
have roused a howl of execration for both parties and
earned the undying gratitude of the public already
mentioned. This strike should be a warning to the
Government not to lease the slaughtering pens at
Glebe Island for long periods, or to insert a clause
that, when necessary, the leases can be suspended at
12 hours’ notice in the event of the pens not being
used. Nobody should be allowed to hold an extended
lease of any public utility and prevent other people
using it if he will not or cannot use it himself. It
it said that any number of small butchers were pre-
pared to slaughter their own stock and supply their
customers, but the carcase monarchs who held the
leases sternly refused to allow them the use of the
pens.
There was just one bright feature in the whole
business. A few places kept open for the sale of
ham, bacon, salted sausage, corned beef and such-
like dried imperishables. And a man who used bad
language outside one of these places, to the annoy-
ance of a number of housewives who had trouble
enough without bad language being thrown in, was
arrested and fined £5. Apparently he was neither
an employee nor an employer nor even a vegetarian.
He was just one of those people who come around in
times of stress and cuss generally.
A new light has been thrown on the in-
creased cost of living in New York. It is
said that a great deal of the alleged in-
crease in the price of butter, eggs, etc., in
the housefather’s expenses arises through
the housemother having the amount of her
whisky account judiciously distributed
among the groceries. The State Legislature
has introduced a Bill (U.S. State Legis-
latures are whales for Bills) providing that
no married woman shall have her liquor
put down in the account as anything save
liquor. So if Mrs. Smith’s thirst is very
bad she will have to tell the grocer in con-
fidence ttyat she isn’t really married to
Smith, but is “living in sin.”
Last week the speedy inter-State boat
Canberra foamed into Port Jackson 20
minutes later than the P. and O. Moldavia,
after one of those purely accidental sea-
sprints that have to be so in case anything
happens. But the people of the licked Can-
berra might plead that this time they were
racing out of their class. Even then the big
Moldavia had to get ail extra boiler hum-
ming and stir up the cheap niggers who
shuffle the coals and ashes down in the
proud English stokehold.
THE DRY BAPTIST.
1ST GIRL: "Coming in?"
2ND GIRL: “No. This dress isn’t guaranteed
if it gets wet."
The children of Israel have good uses as
city councillors. St. Ivilda (Melb.), which
is a kingdom of the Jews, is to have its
Esplanade picture shows open on Sundays as
before, despite the concerted effort of the
local Gentile Wowsers to put a stop to all
forms of Sabbath entertainment save pon-
dering by twos on the beach. In support
of the Council’s proposal to amend the by-
law and give picture shows a special license,
Cr. Barnet argued that Christ would ap-
prove of them if He came to St. Ivilda.
Cr. Jacoby supported the other Chosen per-
sons’ supposition, and the Mayor recorded
a silent vote to the same effect. The resolu-
tion was carried by four to three, so the
Wowsers were beaten by a nose.
THE COP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Princess Dhuleep Singh declared that the police
who quelled the suffragette riot at Camden Hill.
London, “were excited.” and that she herself was
knocked down.— Cable.
Constable Smith had a suffragette who chewed at his
starboard ear ;
Constable Smith lost his equipoise and became a
prey to fear;
Constable Smith had his hair torn out by emotional
ladies’ fingers ;
Constable Smith has done his dash, and for him
promotion lingers;
For the force must always keep cold and calm —to
calm the police are plighted ;
And Constable Smith has been cashiered, for it’s
proved that he was “excited.”
Sergeant O’Futty won two black eyes, and he has
been disrated,
For Sergeant O’Futty was most unwise to be by the
blows elated ;
Sergeant O’Futty his whiskers lost at the hands of
fair Christabel,
And failed to preserve that icy front cops should
show in the midst of Hell.
Sergeant O’Futty was statuesque—but his intellect
was benighted,
For when the ladies biffed his nose, O’Futty became
“excited.”
N.S.W.
LORD PENMAN.


EARL GREY VISITS SETTLERS.
WANTS TO SEE “MAN ON THE
i .LAND,”
Eyl G -" So yo« close ? .
Settle on I§e • '®k
Recent Un,,g W :- VAt"
bfesent; we exbect-io be % ~
ander -fte V>*l we sW I
be closer. "
The glorious fact for humanity was
that there were unlimited powers of
mental and physical development.
( • d
student^
ojjj- Ai<??b S c
Ifyc £|orious fi~un7e\^ij^
Mr. Jacomb, who claims to have
sided for six years at Mildura, has pub-
lished a book entitled “God’s Own
Country,” containing a splenetic attack
upon everything Australian. The writer
says that Australia systematically pro-
duces ugly men. their ugliness being
aggravated by a slovenliness of attire.
—Cable.
The sensational charges made by the
president of the Warragul Shire against
certain dairymen in this district were
repeated ait'the council meeting on Fri-
jday. One speaker read a list obtained
from a factory manager of various
articles found in the cream sent to his
factory. These included soap. mice,
candles, flies, rats, maggots and various
other forms of dirt.
\l
l*> i!
°"Tife '
Ip^efitio
T P
'TI WhvaOls
j?*iciare, SertiTe
Second ditto.-" Oh, IWs. * K^ ir
of 2k +yf>ic*l •
jvvt" j>° : " F^y**cjr ! ArTa
iftev say
"fwue Stock
x< v/e, Hov/
wbaft” ?
SAys will you give lier
{Jcnnortf, O Cre&m
bit" more
1-frvi you gaye cxs
“The fact is, we cannot stay on
with any sense of dignity under
present conditions. During the
last session we held our own, but
it was purely a battle of wits, and
only by the straining of the Stand
ing Orders and such-like methods
were we able to hold on at all.
One'of the ideas of the Conserva-
tive was that woman should turn to
the Bible and remember that St. Paul
had spoken of the submission of
women. St. Paul was up to date in
the time in which he lived, and if he
were in the world to-day he would be
found taking the chair at a Suffra-
gette meeting.
'’Hullo! loe : still -kjK,t,e
o\ you do.
HoWihO o* jbrih
So "to /_
(uf-te da,te)* -
t»7oyed win? tfie.
nmes Si»7ce I wrote my
Ej»is+l«s, JnowwisK+o - 0
marf" Should ObeyT/^eirWive 5.
BY YARRA'S BANKS


SUNDAY OBSERVANCE ITEMS.
Inspired by the words of a deputation which recently waited on N.S.W. Minister Cann.
. <.<»*
o'
V)»’
, 2XV# (i
N't
a** y*e' r& %
tA>a' Tr a A «"
sure that- a revel -
They were l«rlcctiy a f„n(hi-
cnee for the U.rd t ®/ sa fety nml wel-
mental necessity for to
fare of iny people.
V
Mr. cann said on
he w ould Stop an trfU ”
Sundays*
„ _ ~n o| i Methodist
Mr. Cann said It «« lle ,i his otteu-
prC^e er inconventence U o f .»« •£
—-
gentleman misseo n
quence.
y W/
ficmcs w>ill
become f>o|>ular
<*?


“Martin”: “Saff” (Bulletin 12/2/’l4) discusses
on the wiliness of the Chow in marketing his pro-
duce. But they don’t know it all. The Chows at
Townsville could never understand the reason of one
of their number . always selling out his potatoes
before the rest could even get off scratch. They
sampled his wares, and found them just as dishonest
as their own; hence their “Whaffor.” They deter-
mined to inquire of a local buyer. This individual
dispelled the mystery. “You’re a lot of blanky
cheats,” he growled. “But Ah Smart packs his
spuds in the best sacks procurable from T. SMITH’S
LTD., ‘Sack Specialists,’ Sussex Street, Sydney.”*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Oid Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. t i
is
EVERY DAY
mote people are proving that
LUX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens th"
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY^
r
/wi
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The South Aus. Act creating a Harbors
Board having gone through the solemn farce
of being “reserved for the signification of
his Majesty’s pleasure,” and having received
that priceless boon, the S.A. Government
has appointed the first Board. Two of the
members were practical certainties. Arthur
Searcy, chairman, at £9OO a year, has served
as Customs officer, Sergeant-at-Arms in the
S.A. Assembly, and Deputy Commissioner of
Taxes, but for the last 12 years has been
President of the Marine Board. The other
members of the new Board are to get £BOO
each. One of them is Jack Labatt, a
Government engineer, and practical expert
in lighthouse, dredge and jetty work. The
third is taken from outside the service :
Farquhar, alderman of Port Adelaide, local
representative of the A.U.S.N. Co., and good
shipping-man in general.
ARCHDEACON OF HOBART (a well-
known figure).
Buckley and Nunn have an octogenarian
counter-leaper—Alfred De Lany by name—
and Melbourne Herald lately gave his life
story. He tried the Dunolly diggings for
three weeks in his hot and reckless youth,
hut the call of the under-garment was in his
blood and he fled back to enter the employ
of John Ross and Co. In ’59 he had a
counter in the 40 by 50 shop in which B.
and N. started business, and he has
not shifted more than a foot or two from it
since. That is, in a business sense. Out of
business hours he has inhabited the same
house for 45 years. In brief, the sort of
human plodder that edifies employers, so
that they almost come to the salute when
his name is mentioned, but who drives vulgar
strivers after higher wages and the like to
rage and desperation.
DODDS ,
Lieutenant-
Governor
and Chief
Justice of
Tasmania.
Arthur Stanley, the new Governor of Vic-
toria, has been unkindly summed up, by a
Bulletin informant in London, as a mild
humdrum person with strong religious views
and a limited sense of humor. His mother-in-
law, Lady Carlisle, is a power among the
English suffragettes. There is nothing hum-
drum about her.
Died at Wyong (N.S.W.) on 13th inst.,
Mrs. James Bogan, a daughter of the late
William Thurlow, a solicitor of Sydney in
the olden days. Her father served his articles
with C. H. Chambers, who was the first
Town Clerk of Sydney, and William himself
was Mayor of Sydney in 1851-52. There
was at least one excitihg incident in his
career —when he got into hplts with Gover-
nor Fitzroy over an innkeeper’s daughter in
the Goulburn district.
“The Religious Editor”: I’m dead tired
of this sort of thing: “When Hawker put in
an appearance he would have been the last
of the whole gathering that one would have
picked out at a guess as the world-famed
aviator. Dressed in conventional brown
tweed” and so on. What, in the name
of Journalism, do these people expect
Hawker to be like? Do they expect him to
be clothed thickly in feathers and to crow?
Numberless photographs have shown us that
plenty of other flying men dress in tweed,
and Hawker himself keeps on explaining
that driving a flying machine, when you
know how, is just as easy as steering a
motor along a road. This attitude of child-
ish wonder in the presence of such a scien-
tific commonplace as aviation is almost de-
grading.
A battered lady with a history and a
record went into retirement for a row of
months last week in Sydney, after piously
expressing the hope that the magistrate
would be a Happy New Corpse when she
came out some time towards the beginning
of 1915. The lady in question was Grace
Palmer, and she arrived in Australia about
20 years ago, after a hair-raising small-boat
voyage across the Tasman Sea from Maori-
land. Immediately after she landed her two
men companions were arrested by Superin-
tendent Roche and Constable May on a
charge of murdering one Taylor, a settler
on Great Barrier Island, near Auckland.
The lady passenger was detained as chief
witness, and, on her evidence, her fellow-
voyagers were duly hanged. When the pro-
secuting sergeant had finished detailing these
few facts, Grace ejaculated, “Oh, you
needn’t tell that story again!” so she is
evidently sick and tired of it. But what a
beautiful fireside thriller it would make if
decently written!
The South Aus. Government has pro-
mised the River Murray people that
the earliest lock to be built on the
stream in that Mate shall be called
the William Randell, in memory of
the old captain, lately dead, who was the
first to navigate the water in a steamboat.
The machinery was mostly home-made, and
the quaint old boiler is still publicly
treasured at Mannum, near the river’s
mouth.
Mrs. Gotch, widow of one of the founders
of the Gordon and Gotch firm of news-
mongers, has just died at her old home in
East Melbourne. She had lived in Australia,
for 58 years, having arrived with her hus-
band in the sailing ship Donald McKay in
1856. Mr. Gotch immediately joined forces
with Alexander Gordon, who had established
a news and advertising agency in the West-
ern Market (Melb.) in 1853. They soon
left “Bowden’s Folly,” as the Markets (un-
finished) were named, and established them-
selves near Scott’s Hotel, then known as the
Clarendon. In the early ’6o’s Gordon sold
his interest to Gotch and went back to Scot-
land ; but the old name remains to this day.
“Vic/’:: Yawn Murray never put his foot
in it worse than when he gibed at Solly,
M.L.A., for clipping his aitches—a failing
which Is not glaringly observable in Solly;
anyhow, nothing like it was in either Graham
Berry or Henry Parkes. Solly gave Murray
all that was due to him and it may be left
at that. An aitch doesn’t make a statesman-.
When Berry asked “What is before the
’Ouse?” Aspinall interjected: “H.” But
how does Aspinall compare with Berry for
value? Another henchman of Fat said in
Parliament about C. E. Jones: “I believe
the honorable member has been a tailor.”
The retort that came summed up the situa-
tion : “Yes, and if you had been a tailor you
would be one still.”
“Jaundiced”: The N.S.W. Government is
credited with the intention of putting some-
thing on the estimates for the widows of
Henry Parkes and J. R. Dacey, while an-
other item is for a memorial of some sort for
Dan O’Connor. Yet the average N.S.W.
Government feels that it is its bounden duty
to fight to the last ditch the efforts of aged
public servants to obtain their legal pension
rights. Neither of the deceased Ministers
mentioned did a fraction for the State that
a man like Farrer did-—Farrer, the expert
who died after showing how N.S.W.’s pas-
toral wastes could be turned into wheat-
growing paddocks. Yet the State didn’t pro-
vide for Farrer’s widow, or put up a statue
or fountain to him. Hundreds of public ser-
vants have slaved in the public interests for
a lifetime for a miserable pittance, without
so much as a thank you. And far from
voting them money the Cabinet takes a fiend-
ish delight in doing them in at law. The
time is ripe for an understanding as to the
rights of the unpolitical State servant as
compared with those of the political ditto.
“The Pariah” supplies some missing pages :
Admiral “Charley” Beresford, writing chapters of
his alleged autobiog., has lately described his tour
with the Duke of Edinburgh in 1869. Some good
anecdotes are told, but there are a couple that some-
how have been torn out of the narrative. Macdonald,
Governor of Hongkong, arranged a mighty dinner
to give certain merchant princes a chance of meeting
the Duke. No sooner were the guests assembled than
it was regretfully announced that his Highness was
indisposed and could not be present. The irascible
GENERAL SIR IAN
HAMILTON, just after
dining with the Fed.
Ministry.
Scotch Governor de-
cided, however, that all
else should go off well.
One course —the succu-
1e n t rice-bird —w a s
missed. He called the
“number one” boy and
admonished him
quietly. “Yessir,” re-
plied the stolid boy,
and went about order-
ing his underlings. An-
other course, and still
no rice-birds came.
“Boy,” said the Gover-
nor, “where the
——- are those rice-
birds?” “How can?”
demanded the an-
guished “number one.”
“One piecee drunk man
eatee all lot.” In
Australia the royal
party visited Colac.
They had to coach from
Geelong; and all the
s t a t i o n-h a n d s and
bloods for miles around
congregated on Camer-
on’s Hill. The shire
councillors waited more
decorously at the Town
Hall. Some misguided
loyalist presented his
fellow-loyalists on Cam-
eron’s Hill with a cask
of beer. This and a
wait of four hours
after the schedule time
gave rise to some horse-
play, and when the
drags at last appeared
the sight of 200 shout-
ing, galloping horse-
men, some of them rid-
ing face to tail, seared
many things out of the
Duke, and he insisted
that he be driven
straight out to the
squattocrat who was to receive him. Does anyone
know of another occasion on which a shire president
who had made up his mind to deliver a speech was
balked ?
Rupert Clarke’s next outbreak will be as
an explorer: he is going to rake the Fly
River country of Papua, primarily for min-
erals, incidentally for anything with money
in it. The fact that two of the Prykes will
be in the small party of four white men and
20 “boys” assures for it a decent showing, at
the least. New Guinea fellow-prospectors Jo
the local equivalent for taking off theil- hits
to these brothers. With them ffnJ Rupert
himself will be Archie Mc-Alpin; and he
knows the nigger-.
BISHOP JULIUS , OF MAORILAND.
W. O. Gilchrist, who died in England as a
result of a motor accident, last week, was
one of Australia’s richest absentees. He
was the only son of his father; and the lat-
ter is senior partner in Gilchrist, Watt and
Co., and an incredibly affluent station-owner
and so forth. His mother was a member of
the Knox family of Sydney. The deceased
was a tall, florid young man; and was re-
puted to weigh about 25 stone. There is
now but one more or less youthful N. S.
Wales absentee who approximates to the 20-
stone mark. His name is Horace Friend,
and he is a member of the Sydney ironmon-
gering family of that name.
On Wednesday, February 18, when the
people of Sydney were wondering when
Premier Holman would hustle back from
Maoriland to settle the meat strike, the
alert S. M. Herald rushed out and cackled
this piece of news: —
The Premier of N.S.W., Mr. Holman, sailed yes-
terday from Wellington for Dunkirk, in the Clan
Buchanan.
The Clan Buchanan is a tramp, and Dun-
kirk is the wool port of France, but when
the stunned “Liberals” in tram and train
grasped the idea that Holman had bolted,
they sat up and waggled their pot-hats
ominously and hinted that they expected
something of the sort from the very first.
From that well of pure English, undefiled,
the Sydney Moaning ’Erald:—
Once the airman provoked a great outburst of
applause by soaring down from the heights right into
the straight.
Which reminds of the famous bull made in
the Ma State’s Assembly many years
ago by Anderson, member for Waterloo.
He was defending some action or other of
the Ministry of the day, which had been
attacked by W. J. Ferguson, then a slashing
critic of any “Liberal” Governme'nt.
“Mister Shpeaker,” said old Anderson with
great emphasis; “Oi hov listhened to the
hon’ribble mimber wid disghust. Oi r-re-
gard his acshun wid contimpt. It proves
Misther Shpeaker, thot the shnake can soar
an’ soar, loike an aygle, an’, an’ (faltering!
shtill remain a shnake, Misther Shpeaker!”
THE MARQUIS HOWLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Marquis of Londonderry stated that the women
of Ulster would rather be the widows of Ulster
loyalists than the wives of Ulster traitors.— Cable.
Shpake for yureself, Mister Marquis Londonderry;
Big your words but dry your little heart as sinter.
Shpake for yureself—ye are open-mouthed and merry,
But cold is the widow of a loyalist in winter.
Big worrds, little stomach, Londonderry’s marquis ;
Any kind of widdy is a sorry sort of t’ing,
An’ a widdy in the time where the white thorn and
the lark wis
Is the poorest kind of body that can come to greet
the spring.
Shpake for yureself, Mr. Marquis Londonderry ;
Ye’ve never been a widdy, and ye know not widdy’s
woes,
Lyin’ in the dark wit’ the heart of ye unmerry,
An’ dreamin’ of the eyes of him that were as dark
as sloes.
Big worrds and little heart, Londonderry’s Marquis ;
What’s a “thraitor,” annyvvay, but on’y just a
word,
On’y just opinion’s breath —but where’er the dark
wis,
There the thraitor is to love, an’ spring, an’
singin’ bird.
There the thraitor is to me, Mister Londonderry;
Throwin’ down for nought a life that tight belongs
to me,
Thraitor to me love for ancient feuds of Cork and
Kerry,
When to live for my dear sake is dearest loyalty.
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


"Viceregal
The i
Famous
Brand} of
W.D«HOWILLS.
Cigarettes and
Smoking Mixture
R
118 l
/T
p
j
5051
- -y
m
rS
icv>
ir>
*!» T
Biii
The Jolly" Sroohe.
When “the boys " are making music.
All but fun we quite forget:
Then there's nothing like “ Vice-Regal ”
In the Pipe or Cigarette,
ICE-REGAL” flavour is didindive, original, incom-
parable. In the form of Cigarettes or Smoking
Mixture, Vice-Regal represents the highed class of fined
seleded Virginia leaf—a smooth, mild, mellow smoke.
CIGARETTES IN 6d packets, ivory tips
SMOKING MIXTURE IN 1 02. AND 2 oz. AIRTIGHT TINS.
° TWO STRENGTHS-MEDIUM AND FULL.


Hi .^: ciass Woodworking Machinery S Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lec us have your enquiries. “ INOECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OP TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sols Australasian
Agents—
WILLIAM ADAMS (Q> COMPANY LIMITED,
iSydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Added Nomi-
Gross . to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
.Tune, ’06.. 13,674 15 p.c. = 11,250 2,424 24,082
Dec., ’06.. 9,187 5 „ „ 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, ’07.. 18,202 15 „ „ 11,250 6,952 36,471
Dec., ’07.. 13,117 7J „ ~ 5,625 7,492 43,963
June, ’OB.. 15,899 10 „ „ 7,500 8,399 52,362
Dec., ’OB.. 14,008 10 „ „ 7,500 6,508 58,870
June, ’09.. 13,405 8 „ „ 6,800 6,605 65,475
Dec., ’09.. 13,869 8 „ „ 6,800 7,069 72,544
June, ’lO.. 15,488 8 „ „ 6,800 8,688 81,232
Dec., ’lO.. 16,749 9 ~ „ 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, ’ll.. 16,978 9 „ „ 7,650 9,328 99,659
Dec., ’ll.. 12,968 9 „ „ 7,650 5,318 104,977
June, ’12.. 17,900 9 „ „ 7,650 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares. . 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off . . . . 117,027
Dec., ’l2. . 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 „ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,164 8 „ „ 8,160 13,004 143,850
In the foregoing table the profits are described as
gross and the reserves as nominal. This method is
necessary because the co., instead of writing profits
off to cover depreciation, puts the provision for re-
newals and replacements into two funds—one an
ordinary depreciation account, the other for special
jobs. The profits for the past 12 months have been
cut up this way:—•
Added to Depreciation Fund .. .. £14,000
Special Renewals Fund . . .. .. 7,500
Dividends . . . . . . .. ~ 16 320
Added to general reserved .. .. .. 3,451
Total gross profits .. .. £41,271
Now, if the wear and tear of the co.’s boats, etc.,
during the past 12 months has taken £21,500 off
their value, it follows that the true profit for the
period has been only £19,771, or £3451 in excess
of the 8 p.c. dividend; and part even of that £3451
has been added to an insurance reserve. But the
question is whether £21,500 is a fair wear and tear
allowance. The fixed property assets, including city
freehold and engineering works as well as steamships,
cost the present co. £322,904 ; and, especially in
view of the inclusion of the freeholds, 5 p.c. p.a. on
the lot seems an ample provision for renewals and
replacements. On £322,904 5 p.c. is £16,145, which
is £5355 less than the profit that was put into funds
ostensibly to cover depreciation. Assuming that the
5 p.c. mentioned above is ample to allow for the lat-
ter purpose, then the true profit for the past year was
£BBO6 in excess of the 8 p.c. div. This margin would
be more than enough to pay an extra 4 p.c. A reason-
able conclusion, therefore, is that the co. is putting
away a nice little bit after adequately providing for
depreciation; and this is supported by various inci-
dents. First, there is the fact that, when the co. had
a bad half-year lately, owing to unusually heavy
exes., it lifted £5OOO from the Special Renewals
Fund back into profits—a pretty good proof that the
Special Renewals Fund wasn’t wanted for special re-
newals, but was regarded as a handy stocking to hold
profits that weren’t required for the moment. Or
view the business from another point:—
Dec., ’OB. June, T 3. Dec., T 3.
Steamships and other
non-liquid assets ..£230,570 £337,014 £343,267
Liquid assets .. 41,122 60,246 55,068
Liabilities . . .. 34,922 53,954 42,025
Five years ago liquid assets exceeded the liabilities by
£6200. The figure now is £13,043. So since 1908
£112,697 has been put into ships and other non-
liquid assets, and £13,043 into liquid assets; total,
£125,740. Meantime £40,800 has been got in by
way of capital and premium capital. This leaves
£84,940 which has been provided out of revenue in
excess of the working exes, and dividend —in five
years. It looks a lot more than enough to cover de-
preciation.
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and
Road Metal Co. (Sydney) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1906. . £706 3£ p.c. = £425 £225 £56 £2950
Dec., 1906.. 1050 3& „ „ 425 275 350 3300
June, 1907.. 1375 6-j „ „ 850 375 150 3450
Dec., 1907.. 2443 6i „ „ 850 500 1093 4543
June, 1908.. 3555 6J „ „ 850 675 2030 6573
Dec., 1908.. 3751 9| „ „ 1275 825 1651 8224
June, 1909.. 3439 12£ „ „ 1700 500 1239 9463
£6BOO of Reserves transferred to Capital 2663
Dec., 1909.. 3555 121 p.c. = 1700 960 895 3558
June, 1910.. 4057 10 „ „ 2040 950 1067 4625
Dec., 1910.. 3834 10 „ „ 2040 850 944 5569
June, 1911.. 3712 10 „ „ 2040 800 872 6441
Dec., 1911.. 4457 10 „ „ 2040 700 1717 8158
£4OBO of Reserves transferred to Capital 4078
June, 1912.. 4935 10 p.c. = 2244 1250 1441 5519
Dec., 1912.. 7088 20 „ „ 4488 1250 1350 6869
June, 1913., 6397 20 „ ~ 4488 1350 559 7428
Dec., 1913.. 6441 20 „ „ 4488 1350 603 8031
The Government’s borrowing boom suits this co.
down to the ground. It not only gets a cut out of
the borrowed money spent on construction works,
but the State’s wild loan boom has produced an arti-
ficial prosperity, jmd deceived by that bogus pros-
perity people have been paying or promising to pay
absurd prices for patches of waste suburban and sea-
side sand and rock; and one bogus price has been
used to justify another bogus price, and so the lunacy
has gone on, the result being that this and other cos.
have not only been able to sell a great deal more
than usual of their builders’ goods and road-making
material, but have been able to get almost any price
they liked to name. Of course the lunacy can’t go
on indefinitely. Already, in fact, some of those who
have been getting fat on the construction boom have
had to pull down their prices in order to get busi-
ness—the timber people, for instance. But the worst
trouble is that the prodigal has to get presently to the
husks, and he will drag this trade with him. Over-
construction to-day means under-construction to-
morrow ; and in the case of this co. you have only
to go back seven or eight years to know what that
means. In the latter part of 1905 there was no 20
p.c. dividend on watered cariital; there was, in fact, no
dividend at all on capital which just previously had
been written down to wipe out accumulated losses.
That, then, is the nature of the business.
While the boom lasts the co. does remarkably
.well. Take this comparison:—
Dec., 1908. Dec., 1913.
Liquid assets .. ..£4962 £18,743
Liabilities .. .. 8433 1,751
Excess liabilities ..£3471
Excess assets .. .. £16,992
Meantime, capital has been increased from £27,200
in 34,000 £1 shares paid to 16s. to £44,880 in
£1 shares fully paid. So far as can be traced, only
£6BOO has, however, been paid up in cash; and a lot
more than that has been put into the property. The
surplus profits over and above the big dividends have
therefore amounted in five years to at least the
£20,463 by which the cash position has improved;
and, remember, five years ago the capital was only
£27,200. If the co. could keep going like this it
would be something very choice indeed; but unfor-
tunately, a large part of the most profitable trade
has been built upon a bubble. Still, whereas in the
previous years of gloom in the building trade the co.
had an overdraft, nowadays it has a solid bank
balance, which should produce more than enough
interest to pay management exes., leaving the work-
ing profits (whatever they may be) all available for
the shareholders.
* * * *
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June,’o6.. 21,579 lOp.c. = 10,000 11,579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., ’06.. 21,796 10p.c. = 10,000 11,796 72,337
June,’o7.. 35,119 10 „ „ 7,500 37,693 62,258
Dec., ’07.. 40,660 10 „ „ 7,500 4,355 28,805 91,063
June,’oB.. 27,422 10 „ „ 7,500 2,291 17,631 108,694
Dec., ’OB.. 25,283 10 „ ~ 7,500 17,783 126,477
June,’o9.. 14,609 10 „ ~ 7,500 7,109 133,586
£lOO,OOO (one-half) of capital returned.
Dec., ’09.. 21,954 30p.c. = 7,500 99,811 48,229
June,’lo.. 15,499 30 „ „ 7,500 7,999 56,228
Dec., MO.. 30,287 30 ~ ~ 7,500 22,787 79,015
Bonus (80 p.c.) paid to shareholders .. 39,015
June,’ll.. 25,460 30p.c. = 7,500 1,155 16,805 55,820
Dec., ’ll.. 30,309 55 ~ ~ 13,750 1,785 14,774 70,594
June,’l2.. 30,070 120 „ ~ 30,000 70 70,664
Dec., ’12.. 32,412 120 „ „ 30,000 960 1,452 72,116
June,’l3.. 42,393 120 „ „ 30,000 937 11,456 83,572
Dec., ’13.. 40,909 160 „ ~ 40,000 909 84,481
■The 47 th half-yearly report of the co. has just
been issued; and the co.’s life was limited to 28
years. At least, that was the term of the conces-
sion granted by the N.S.W. Parliament. Thus
only 44 years are left to the co. in which to pump
profits out of the big dam on Stephens Creek. The
capital of the co. at its most was £200,000 ; but,
in view of the co.’s fleeting existence, first £50,000
and then £lOO,OOO of that lot was paid back, as
the table shows. This leaves the present capital at
£50,000. The repaying of capital didn’t, however,
affect the profits: Broken Hill wanted just as much
water as ever, and the co. wasn’t in any worse con-
dition to supply it. In fact, just when the capital
was reduced the Broken Hill mines called for more
water than ever they did before, the flotation pro-
cess for the treatment of the old dumped tailings
being a sloppy business in which water is quite as
important as oil and acid. Hence the glorious pro-
fits of the past few years and the amazing return
on the written-down capital. What will happen in
the next 44 years isn’t go plain. For one thing,
the Government is in the midst of another very big
Broken Hill water-supply scheme, costing something
like £350,000, and the State service should make a
start by the middle of this year. After that all depends
on the price the Government charges for water. The
mines (which consume vastly more than the town)
may prefer to take Private Enterprise water; but this
co. and several of the mining cos. are not such good
cobbsrs that the latter will be prepared to pay the
co. more for water than it can be bought for from
the State. In 44 years the State will have the
whole business in its hands, and if it can then show
10 p.c. on its outlay—44 p.c. for interest ami
54 p.c. for sinking fund —it will probably be very
well satisfied. Now, •10 p.c. on (say) £400,000
will be £40,000; and as the co. has been making
a lot more than that for some years past, it is
pretty clear that the State will be able to cut the
price of water. Whether it will make the cut at
once, when it will only have some of the business,
or wait till it gets the lot, this naper doesn’t know.
Anyway, given ordinary weather conditions, there is to
be competition some time this year—and competition
isn’t going to do this co. any good. What dividends it
will pay after this year are therefore uncertain;
and there is some uncertainty also as to what the
final cut-up will be. Apart from the capital repre
sented by construction, the co. has £111,470 of
net assets, of which £12,761 is in plant, machinery
and tools, and £14,543 in meters and fittings;
and some of these things may have to be handed
over to the Government as part of “the undertak-
ing.” Assuming that £90,000 is available for
distribution, this means 9s. a share. To give
shareholders the other Bs. at which the market
values the shares the co. will have to get in another
£BO,OOO in 44 years; and on the record of the past
three years that ought to be fairly easy.
* * * *
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
Dividends. Writ- To
✓ A > ten Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1902.. 10,535 5 p.c. 24 p.c. 1602 2400 6,533 12,109
1903.. 9,332 5 „ 24 „ 1580 2480 5,272 17,381
1904.. 7,808 5 „ 24 „ 1697 2000 4,111 21,492
1905.. 5,976 5 „ 24 „ 1767 2000 2,209 23,701
1906.. 10,134 5 „ 4 „ 2065 2000 6,069 29,770
On All Shares.
1907.. 15,571 64 p.c. = 2711 3580 9,280 39,050
1908.. 13,326 6 „ „ 2714 5889 4,723 43,773
1909.. 13,190 6 „ „ 2729 6530 3,931 47,704
1910.. 21,101 8 „ „ 3641 6057 11,403 59,107
1911.. 22,593 8 „ „ 3642 8128 10,823 69,930
£22,761 of reserves transferred to capital 47,169
1912.. 15,444 8 p.c. = 5463 7913 2,068 49,237
1913.. 11,236 8 „ „ 5463 8054 46,956
Hey, mon, what’s this? A net profit of £3182 and
a deevidend of £5463. These cautious financiers
must have rubbed their chins a long while before
they consented to anything of that sort. However,
for once The Bulletin won’t complain because a
co. pays away more than its net earnings. For one
thing, the £8054 written off the year’s profits is
quite arbitrary—lots of other directors would have
made it £4871 or any other old figure and be quite
easy 'in conscience. And then there is this record
for 10 years:—
Paid in dividends . . . . .. £31,892
Depreciation written off .. .. 52,151
Net profits put by . . .. .. 52,336
Total profits .. .. .. £136,379
A management with a financial record like that
could be forgiven if it paid once in a lifetime a
dividend that really wasn’t earned; and in this
case, though profit, by reason of floods, etc., was;
much poorer than usual, there is no certainty that
the dividend really wasn’t earned. The principle all
through has been to write down assets unsparingly
—a wise course, undoubtedly, because assets in this
business do need renewal or replacement quickly.
As profit is written off for this purpose it is put
back into the business and applied to the purchase
of new plant to replace or reinforce old. This
policy of extreme caution has permitted the co. to
build up its present fine business on the exceedingly
moderate capital of £68,283, and to finance the
whole affair with the help of less than £30,000 of
outside money on December 31. This shows that
aspect of the matter in detail:—
1903. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913.
Capital . . £42,983 £45,517 £45,522 £68,283 £68,283
Liabilities 29,297 24,279 22,584 21,585 29,103
Works .. 75,157 105,431 120,339 126,617 129,711
Stock .. 5,771 10,103 7,760 7,724 12,130
Other assets 10,313 17,009 13,579 10,714 8,948
Compare the figures for 1903 and 1913 and you will
see that, on new capital of only £25,300, the co. has
put in additional works valued at £54,554 (apart
from those paid for out of revenue as replacements),
and has, moreover, added just upon £5OOO to stock
and liquid assets. And it has managed the very fine
performance at the risk of little more than its own
paid-up capital.
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profit on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
£> £> £ £ £
July, 1906.. 1789 317 7$ p.c.= 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907.. 2087 581 7$ „ „ 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 1958 313 7$ „ „ 1752 150 18,684
Jan., 1908.. 1952 288 7$ „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 „ „ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 „ „ 1912 19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ „ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ „ 1912 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 501 22,111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 „ „ 1912 23,584
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 .. 26,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9J „ „ 2231 29,447
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p.c.= 2294 22,814
July, 1913.. 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914.. 3295 423 8 „ „ 2294 25,303
“Profit on property sales” tells the usual tale. On
the smash of the Melbourne boom the society was
left loaded with foreclosed properties, on which
advances had been made on the basis of boom valua-
tions. It nursed most of these properties for years ;
then, in 1901, it decided to clean things up by
revaluing the assets and writing the capital down to
correspond. In that way about half the capital dis-
appeared. But it wasn’t all gone for ever: a little
of it has been coming back in the shape of surpluses
realised on the sale of the written-down properties.
I-lence these alleged profits are really little bits of
capital written off unnecessarily (as it turns out) in
1901, and now restored to the shareholders; and
when the last of the old properties is sold, this source
of so-called profit will dry up. In 1901 there was
£72,305 (written-down book value) on hand; all
that is left now is £13,969, so profits can’t be
swollen a great deal more from that quarter. How-
ever, to even things up, a fair amount of new
advance business has been secured:—
July, Jan., July, Jan.,
1901. 1913. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities .. £37,015 £40,950 £38,657 £41,052
Advances .. .. 19,998 106,509 105,957 111,683
Foreclosures .. 72,305 16,744 15,947 13,969
Cash, etc 2,778 163 284 355
The share capital is £57,357 ; and there are reserves
of very nearly half that amount. The depositors and
other creditors are consequently very well protected ;
there are, in all, £126,007 of assets, and things
would have to be pretty dreadful if £126,007 of
assets didn’t secure £41,052 of debt. From the
shareholders’ point of view, the most satisfactory
feature is the solid surplus which ordinary profits
show in excess of the 8 p.c. dividend ; and the steady
accumulation of these surpluses ought to make the
8 p.c. div. fairly safe for the future. True, this
paper can’t see any future full of the old gaudy
dividends for building societies, State Banks and the
like having put the old rates for cottage-building
accommodation out of the question. Nevertheless,
owing to the rise in the rate of interest for Savings
Bank deposits and advances, the earnings on build-
ing-society capital may be a shade better than they
promised to be a while ago.
* * * *
The Victoria Coffee Palace Co. (Mel-
bourne) :—•
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1901.. £1905 5 p.c. = £lOOO £905 £2,397
1902.. 1818 5 „„ 1000 £715 103 2,500
1903.. 1464 4 „,, 800 664 3,164
Unclaimed dividends 20 3,184
1904.. 1517 4 p.c. = 800 476 241 3,425
1905.. 1537 4 „ „ 800 737 4,162
1906.. 1665 4 „ „ 800 865 5,027
1907.. 2792 5 „„ 1000 1792 6,819
1908.. 1895 5 „ „ 1000 895 7,714
1909.. 3568 8$ „ „ 1700 1868 9,582
1910.. 4114 104 „ „ 2100 53 1961 11,543
1911.. 4853 125,,,, 2893 1960 13,503
1912.. 5346 10 „ „ 2600 2746 16,249
1913.. 6653 12$ „ „ 3250 1000 2403 18,652
On those figures coffee palaces seem to be coming
back. Two things are no doubt mainly responsible.
First, there is the visitor from the country. Mostly
he is a shy bird, who, knowing that awful things
happen at hotels, turns to the coffee palace for sanc-
tuary. And since times have been pretty good in the
country during the last few years, he has come to
town much oftener than he used to. Then there is
the closing of hotels by the Licenses Reduction Board.
In 1906 there were 787 pubs in Greater Melbourne,
including 84 in the Gipps Division of the city, and
53 in Latrobe Ward. Under the Act of that year
the 84 in Gipps have to come down to 12, the 53
in Latrobe to 29, and the 787 in the whole city to
371. To the end of June in last year 192 had been
closed, and there are still 224 to go. The Board
takes great pains to say that the pubs shut have
been mostly drinking shops, and it is true that none
of the swagger residential hotels have been wiped
out. But plenty have gone that offered a certain
amount of accommodation, and it was to these third
and fourth-rate pubs (many of them having some
sort of link with a country town) that scores of
people went who now are probably most inclined to
turn into a coffee palace. Anyhow, the suppression
of pubs must do these coffee palaces good, and the
building or rebuilding of swagger hotels isn’t likely
to do them any harm. The co.’s capital used to be
£40,000, but half was written off some years ago,
far too much having been paid for the property in
the boom time; and £6OOO has since been got in.
Present capital is thus £26,000, in 52,000 shares.
The ghost on the premises consists of a mortgage,
which was growing thinner and more ghostly until
building additions were made at a cost of £18,551,
when he fattened again. The present book value of
the freehold is £61,516, to which add £9280 for
contents; and the mortgage and other liabilities are
£26,443. The position isn’t, therefore, very des-
perate. Ten years ago the liabilities, less cash and
liquid assets, were £22,846. Now they are £25,936
or £3090 more. Also, £6OOO of new capital has
been got in. That makes £9090 got in as capital
or on loan. Meantime £18,551 has been spent on
the new buildings, nearly £3OOO on the old, and
the. contents are valued at about £5OOO more than
they were 10 years ago. It is a very fair record for
a co. which looked so much like a derelict that even
in 1903 the market value of the whole boiling of
the shares didn’t run to more than £12,000.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart,
Tas.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905.. £3472 6 p.c. =£3402 £7O £7,097
June, 1906 .. 4266 6 „ 3402 864 7,961
Dec., 1906 .. 3497 6 ~ „ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907.. 4734 6 „ „ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907 . . 3637 6 „ „ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908 .. 4698 6 „ „ 3402 1296 10,919
Dec., 1908 . . 3298 6 „ „ 3402 10,815
June, 1909 . . 3823 6 „ „ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909 . . 3092 6 „ „ 3442 10,886
June, 1910 .. 4871 6 ~ ~ 3442 1429 12,315
Dec., 1910.. 7135 6 ~ „ 3402 3733 16,048
June, 1911 .. 3190 6 ~ ~ 3402 -- 15,836
Dec., 1911.. 4064 6 „ „ 3402 662 16,498
June, 1912 .. 3444 6 ~ ~ 3402 42 16,540
Dec., 1912 . . 3602 6 „ „ 3402 200 16,740
June, 1913 .. 4180 6 ~ ~ 3402 778 17,518
Dec., 1913 . . 4665 6 „ „ 3402 1263 18,781
The directors are quite cheerful: “There has been a
most satisfactory increase in business for the past
half-year. . . .Business for the current half-year already
shows a large increase on that of the corresponding
period in 1913.” The trouble is that the co., which
owns the big Cascade estate, has a lot of capital
(exact amount not ascertainable) in assets that pro-
duce very little revenue. Moreover, much of this
non-profit earning property is represented by borrowed
money; and the lender wants his little bit no matter
what sort of slothful assets the principal is in.
This shows the position:—
Dec.,’o3. June,’l3. Dec.,’l3.
Mortgages and deposits.. £98,669 £92,075 £89,575
Overdrafts, etc 25,547 33,087 30,003
Hotels, properties, etc .. 186,060 185,055 184,424
Stock and plant .. .. 37,296 45,121 38,779
Book debts, etc 21,178 24,786 27,523
Cash and liquid assets . . 227 50 38
So you have a co. with a capital of £lOB,OOO carry-
ing a debt of £119,578, much of which, as men-
tioned above, is most likely not earning its keep, and
is therefore loafing on the brewery part of the busi-
ness—which, from all accounts, is increasingly pros-
perous. In course of time the assets which don’t
earn much current profit may bring in nice surpluses
on sale; but the movement in that respect is slow.
All the same, Hobart is distinctly a place with
prospects. These are days when steamers demand
more and more water to poke their noses into, and
Hobart is among the few ports that can accommodate
the biggest of them without discomfort; and that
fact certainly isn’t going to do Hobart any harm.
Also the apple trade hasn’t reached its limit yet by a
long way; and, incidental to the apple-growing busi-
ness, this co. is pushing into cider manufacture. As
the hitherto uncultivated taste for cider is growing
pretty fast in Australia, there should be money in
this.
* * * *
E. Rich and Co., Ltd., merchants, sta-
tion-supply people, etc. (Sydney) :
Available for
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1904 .. £1,495 Nil £1495 £8403
1905 .. 12,815 4 p.c.n: £7921 4894 3509
1906 .. 12,998 4„ „ 7921 5077 1568
1907 .. 14,205 5„ „ 9902 4303 5871
1908 . . 10,501 5„ „ 9902 699 6470
1909 .. 8,009 5„ „ 9902 4577
1910 .. 10,196 5„ „ 9902 294 4871
1911 .. 13,778 5„ „ 9902 3876 8747
1912 .. 2,223 4„ „ 7921 3049
1913 .. 9,018 4„ „ 7921 1097 4146
It seems a big jump from £2223 to £9OlB ; but the
chances are that the small figures for 1912 were due
mainly to the clearing-out of assets at much under
book-value: in particular, half a dozen departments
of the Sydney business were sold right out at a loss.
Now, having shut up those departments which pro-
bably didn’t pay (though with other management
they might perhaps have been made to pay), the
directors remark that “a considerable sum is avail-
able awaiting the expected expansion of the business.”
Meantime these moneys are merely on deposit. Appa-
rently the expansion is expected chiefly in Queens-
land. A new warehouse was provided in Brisbane a
while ago, and from there business is being pushed
hard. The whole concern has, in fact, been reorgan-
ised. Edward Rich, who founded the business in the
N. S. Wales back country and was for many years
managing director, died in 1912, and L. H. Spence,
who used to be the Queensland manager, has suc-
ceeded him, and has been to Europe to reorganise the
buying arrangements there. Add to this the fact that
the co. now is practically free from the burden of debt
which for years was so heavy that the affairs of the
co. were managed from Dalgety’s London office (they
were only released about four years ago), and it wiil
be seen that the rather dreary past may not be much
of a guide to the future. As at Sept. 30 the co.
owed £33,728 to trade creditors and on mortgage;
its assets included £59,743 of freeholds and plant,
£87,313 of stock, £71,871 of book debts, and
£18,036 of cash. With so much of the capital on
the books and in stock there are large possibilities
in the way of bad debts and over-valuations ; on the
other hand, the station-supply business has given very
big profits to many an Australian firm, and the possi-
bilities in that way for this co. are large too.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co., the
big silver, lead and zinc producer:—
Gross Divi- Gross Divi-
Profits. dends. Profits, dends.
£ £ £ £
Nov., ’O5 227,300 144,000 Nov., ’O9 55,996 Nil
May, ’O6 253,473 192,000 May, ’lO 46,047 48,000
Nov., ’O6 345,622 240,000 Nov., ’lO 124,938 48,000
May, ’O7 331,125 240,000 May, ’ll 155,967 48,000
Nov., ’O7 153,599 288,000 Nov., ’ll 239,731 96,000
May, ’OB 30,389 72,000 May, ’l2 203,716 120,000
Nov., ’OB 34,430 Nil Nov., T 2 177,594 144,000
Loss. May, ’l3 132.037 120,000
May, ’O9 59,029 Nil Nov., ’l3 152,768 96,000
The profit still looks big; but it has taken a lot
of stuff to make it, and the shareholder who knows
what the metal markets have been during the six
months can’t feel very comfortable when he remem-
bers what they have been in the past and are quite
likely to be in the future. The output of ore from
the eo.|s own mine was 158,863 tons. The lead con-
centrating mill took 148,875 tons, and the balance
has either gone into the bins or consists of oxidised
ore, which has gone straight to the smelters at Port
Pirie. The 148,875 tons yielded 33,360 tons of con-
centrates (including the recovery from the re-grind-
ing of tailings) ; and the lot contained approximately
18,300 tons of lead. Now take a look at the
averages in the metal market:—
Lead, Silver, Spelter,
per ton. per oz. per ton.
May., 1910.. £l3 2s. Od. 2s. 0.15 d. I oh
Nov., 1910.. 12 15s. lOd. 2s. 0.‘99d. I os ’ Ud-
May., 1911.. 13 Is. 2d. 2s. 0.60 d. > „„
Nov., 1911... 14 9s. Bd. 2s. 0.54 d. / 25 3s ’ 2d ’
May., 1912.. 15 19s. 2d. 2s. 2.77 d. I OK „
Nov., 1912.. 19 4s. 7d. 2s. 4.65 d. ( 2b 3S ’ ba ’
May, 1913.. 17 ss. 9d. 2s. 4.09 d. \
Nov., 1913.. 19 Bs. 9d. 2s. 3.49 d. / lds - 8a -
There is thus a difference of £3 19s. sd. between the
average for the previous three years and the average
for the past six months; and that means £73,000 on
the past half-year’s output of lead from the lead
works alone. In other words, had the prices which
ruled during the previous three years ruled last half-
year, the gross profit (given the same conditions of
working) would have broken its neck by falling from
£152,000 to £79,000. The comparison would be
still worse if one went back five or 10 or 15 years.
Then there is the B. H. Prop.’s zinc plant. This
treated 181,463 tons of tailings, just about two-thirds
(say 120,000 tons) of which were current produc-
tion. The other 62,000 tons came from the dumps.
So it took 158,000 tons of ore and 62,000 tons of
old zinc tailings to produce a gross profit of
£152,768, and that assumes that’ no profit was made
from the treatment of purchased concentrates. The
total quantity of lead concentrates and slimes
smelted at Port Pirie was 87,797 tons. The slimes
smelted were probably almost negligible; the co.
hasn’t been rushing slimes-smelting in view of the
progress which has been made lately with selective
flotation—this co.’s special fancy is the Bradford
process. Concentrates and slimes of the co.’s own
production sent to the furnaces can be put at 38,000
tons. This would leave only a shade under 50,000
tons of purchased concentrates to go into the fur-
naces. In view of the very fine lead market,
£152,000 isn’t much of a profit (and that’s gross,
without allowing for depreciation of plant) to come
from 158,000 tons of mine ore and 62,000 tons of
stored zinc tailings and the treatment of 50,000 tons
of purchased concentrates. One would say on these
figures that a £6 poorer market for lead would wipe
the profit right out. Yet, to make the puzzle
greater, in the latter half of 1910, when the net
price obtained by this co. for lead was well over £6
less than in the past half-year, the profit was
£124,938, which isn’t much less than for the past
half-year ; and if zinc was a trifle better then, silver
was a lot worse, so far as the market is concerned.
The only visible explanation lies in an extraordi-
nary increase in costs. And, curiously enough, on


J. Earle Hermann Ltd.
Head Office —1-9 Third Floor Suite,
109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Also at
Collins House, Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
199 Winchester House, Old Broad
Street, LONDON, E.C.
And Continental Agencies.
CAPITAL £500,000
COMPANY and ESTATE MANAGERS TRTTS
TEES, EXECUTORS, ATTORNEYS, UNDER
WRITERS, GUARANTORS. and REALTY
SPECIALISTS.
Flotations of approved concerns undertaken
FIRST-CLASS INTEREST-BEARING Indus-
trial and Commercial SHARE and DEBENTURE
Investments, to suit Clients.
. '^£ r^ n ®t men * ;s made for Sub-division and Sales
of Suburban and Country ESTATES. * S
Correspondence Invited.
Managing Director j. EARLE HERMANN
MELBOURNE Director E .
LONDON Manager JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
sjr
All the
leading: Mines
and Workshops
In this Country use
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
Experience having proved that our *
Belts, Hoses, Packings, etc., have
equal for Quality and Price.
Samples & Tenders Submitted.
Lists on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney.
Ade a, de. Perth. Brisba
Wellington. Chmirh,„ f
h
One of the strange features connected with mine
and other plant owners nowadays is the seeming lack
of attention towards the cutting of power transmis-
sion costs. Too often this vital part of cost, which
a little thought will show makes for full or half
profits, is not given sufficient attention. Machinery
is more or less human, after all. What it will do
for you depends much on what you do for it. Every
plant owner ought to be thoroughly acquainted with
belting, because this forms the connecting link not
only of power but of profit. For over 55 years
“Pioneer” Leather Belting has held pride of place
as the one Belt that will keep your pulleys driving
all the time. Built up from the centre cuts of
strongest oak-tanned Australian leather, it has the
required strength and elasticity that is the soul of
Belting efficiency. In many of the largest plants in
Australia “Pioneer” is used exclusively. Let us send
you full particulars. Write NOW. Made only by
J. C. Ludowici and Son., Ltd., Pioneer Works, 117
York Street, Sydney. Agencies in all principal cities.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions- Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d„ making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yaid, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
Clio yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ;
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a
Bigelow 16m. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
19H: the annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
tnat I orward is still the watchword of the directors,
tor m every direction admirable progress has been
achieved. *
* * * *
.PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the cleanest class of
P U Je , f ° r . conveying water. It does not taint nor
affect fluids passing through it, and is not affected
by acids, minerals, brine, sulphur fumes nor by
electrolysis. It is made in all sizes from 3iii.
upwards. Catalogue from the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).* [1
Amongst orders received since the New Year bv
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction andl
Towns Gas Engines : Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two—each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;:
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p. for-
whilst at the present time they arc
a 1 2 b-h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Me ssrs . Hams and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric*
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
* * * *
, ,^? est returns f° r all kinds of residues are
qir ta! .r e< « from Harringtons Ltd. of 380 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
nours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advnre given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
V* Ua r ed analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
a nd bons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India etc
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
Jots can be arranged.*
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
H.M.A.S. Australia,_ now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
AdeHiZ 483 °. ollinS Street ’ Melbourne, and
ventors’ Guide!* 7 PraCtlCe ' Wlite us * n "
* * •*■
f n SS Tj Y c RS ’ Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus Braun’s
m P m Ih nS Ain t 0 20 i?,. mesh: h a nd P sample US grindersto
lmnnoZrafr, rth s assay balances sensitive to
1/13U00 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
bmnnp’p«^ ei Ai ht ’ P ° cket transits i gasoline combination:
furnaces, Morgans crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Emuire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
that point, though the management has hitherto made
many complaints, this half-year there are several
references to reduced costs. For instance: “An im-
proved recovery has obtained in the spelter plant, and
costs have come down considerably. In fact, all
departments [at Port Pirie] show better results in
that direction.” In lead concentration, “costs con-
tinue to show a reduction.” In zinc-concentration,
“the increased tonnage dealt with and less inter-
rupted work have been responsible for reduced costs.”
It may be that high labor costs have produced, as
they should, more mechanical and scientific aids;
likewise, it is exceedingly probable that the co., in
view of its Newcastle steel enterprise, wants to keep
on the best of terms with the Labor Government—•
wants to show (people having very short memories)
that it isn t one to cry out about high wages. At
the same time, if costs have continued to come
down, what has the co. been doing with all the
extra money it has been getting for its lead ? And
on the present allegedly-reduced costs, what a shiver-
somc showing the co. would make with lead at the
i. 4 per ton less which has been the average of the
past three years, or the £4 13s. less which the
co. averaged in the past five years?
The big thing in hand at present is the iron and
steel business at Newcastle. On construction on that
section of the business a total of £116,937 was
spent last half-year. Until this enterprise was decided
on there were 960,000 shares, nominally of Bs. each.
Ihe co was then authorised to issue 540,000 more;
but only 221,006 have been applied for. These
have brought in £88,402 as capital and £306,953
as premiums. This makes the financial position still
very easy, in spite of the heavy payments already
made: the surplus of liquid assets on November 30
was £888,117, as against £649,373 12 months pre-
viously. Anybody is liable these times to trip over
hve strikes and a lockout between breakfast-time
, ,, le evening damper; but the directors are
hopeful of “being in a position to commence opera-
tions early next year.”
* * * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, 1906.. £67,535 £60,000 £7,488 £106,016
Dee., 1906.. 99,976 60,000 18,975 127 017
June , 1907.. 103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec., 1907. . 73,350 70,000 10,000 134,256
June, 1908. . 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
Dec., 1908.. 51,016 Nil 10,693 169,585
June, 1909.. 46,795 40,000 10,742 165,638
Dec., 1909.. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73 618
June, 19iu. . 42,624 20,000 5,166 91 076
Dec., 1910. . 72,427 60,000 5,081 98,422
June, 1911.. 77,665 60,000 5,087 111 000
? CC ” 128,134 90,000 5,301 143,833
•Tune, 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159 788
Dec., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201 755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155 993
Dec., 1913.. 177,091 140,000 5,561 187,523
This very fine profit was provided by 168,957 tons of
ore and 44,761 tons of dumped tailings. The work-
ing account shows that £35,866 was received on
account of tailings; but it doesn’t follow that this
represents the exact value to this co. of the 44,761
tons, as final settlements are not made till some
months after delivery. If the co. made 16s. per ton
irom it S> tailings, with the spelter market in last
half-year s slumpy condition, it did remarkably well.
Deducting the £35,866 from the gross profit, and
taking the balance ( £141,226) as made out of ore,
the profit on the latter was worth 16s. 9d. per ton.
Kte measured ore reserves are 3,556,000 tons; and at
16s. 9d. there would be a profit of £2,978,000 in
them—and there are only 200,000 shares in the co.
Rut it is much safer to take as a basis a period of
years. For instance
T Ore Treated. Divs. paid.
June, 1907 .. ... 100,385 tons £BO,OOO
Dec., 1907 .. .. 110,715 „ 70,000
June, 1908 . . .. 78,003 „ 20,000
Dec., 1908 . . .. 111,967 „ Nil
June, 1909 .. .. 137,839 „ 40,000
Dec., 1909 . . .. 167,265 „ 40,000
June, 1910 ..■ .. 132,968 „ 20,000
Dec., 1910 .. .. 179,216 „ 60,000
June, 1911 .. .. 175,044 „ 60,000
Dec., 1911 .. .. 181,790 „ 90,000
June, 1912 .. .. 165.532 „ 120,000
Dec., 1912 .. .. 180,080 „ 170,000
June, 1913 .. .. 151,742 „ 160,000
Dec., 1913 .. .. 168,957 „ 140,000
Total .. .. 2,041,503 tons £1,070,000
It is a fair thing to assume that the directors have
paid all they could afford to pay, and that the sur-
plus profits have been mopped up in plant; and it
is quite safe to assume that about an equal propor-
tion win be mopped up in nlant in the future.
In seven years the dividends have averaged 9s. 6d.
per ton of ore. Of course, all this hasn’t been made
°i ? ore - There have been large sales of accu-
mulated tailings. But the products, etc., on hand
are greater now than they were as at December, 1906:
~ ... Dec., ’O6. Dec., ’l3.
Tailings, tons .. .. 925,000 936,500
Slimes, tons .. .. 129,000 350,800
Surplus liquid assets ..£119,572 £212,501
So we get this result: without drawing on the’ accu-
mulations, the co. has made 9s. 6d. per ton of ore
as an average in the past seven years, has paid for
plant, and has put by £92,929. At the same rate,
tne measured ore has a profit-value of £1,689,000
or £8 Bs. per share; and there are the tailings and
the slimes and the accumulated profit to provide for
contingencies. And on top of that there is the un-
measured ore. Whether the profit for the future will
actually be as good as it has been in the past this
paper can’t tell. Costs have gone up; on the other
hand, processes have improved. As for the markets,
they may be as erratic as they have been hitherto ;
still there is no reason at all to expect that they
will average less in the next seven years than they
have in the past seven.
* * * *
The Melbourne Harbor Trust Commis-
sioners are inviting applications for a loan of
£300,000 at 4 p.c. Tenders close on March 2.
A lot of grain handlers have taken hold
/It otxt x phosp , ho , nc rock deposits at Wellington
(N.S.W.), including a bone deposit which is of
secondary interest. The rock phosphates are high in
Phos. acid and of good nitrogen content, and as there
are pyrites within 20 or 30 miles and near railroads
and a big local market for fertiliser, the co should
strike a commercial success.
* * *
Great Cobar is so desperately liard-up for
water that tank-trains will once more have to be
put on. G. E. Baker, one of the directors, who has
°en here for some time looking after the financial
side of the business, is returning to England. He
had no idea that such plenary powers were to be
given 8., M. and Co., and resigned when he found
out the position.
* * * *
David Fell, the Sydney accountant who
thought he would like to be a politician, but soon
found out what the party muzzle is, and then dropped
out, leaves for London in about a month’s time. Fell
has been acting for the bailiffs who are in charge
of the Commonwealth Oil Corporation’s affairs, and
it is largely in connection with an attempt to resur-
rect the corpse that he goes to a place where he
can more conveniently reach J. Bull’s capacious ear.
Stanthorpe Tin, just over the border on
the Queensland side, has got on to the div. list; and
with plenty of water now available and the finances
comfortable, shareholders should hear of something
to their advantage pretty regularly. It is alluvial,
of course.
* * * *
The more impudent of the Ardletlian floats
begin to resurrect themselves. Even the Southern
Cross, that famous mine with the 14ft. lode “out-
cropping” at the bottom of a shaft 25ft. deep and
4ft. wide, has had another boom, and is quoted at
sd. Wild Cherry at 6s. 3d. (150,000 £1 shares,
about £5OOO in hand, and, maybe, £15,000 profit
in sight) is bad enough, but White Crystal (120,000
£1 shares, not a copper in hand and no profit in
sight) is far worse. Paids are quoted at 11s. 3d., and
cons, at Bs. 9d. You couldn’t give this stuff away
the other day—and nothing has happened since
except a fall in tin.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for January:
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder .. 17,017 47,130 26,002 55/5
Ivanhoe . . . . 20,238 33,123 10,013 32/9
Kalgurli . . . . 10,845 21,400 9,249 39/6
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,589 21,065 1,465* 31/-
Oroya Links .. 12,400 12,700 1,730 20/6
Associated Northern 6,507 8,958 f 1,632 22/9
Yuanmi .. .. 10,400 15,929 2,637 30/8
Associated . . 10,802 12,551 704 23/3
Lake View and Star 18,118 21,447 3,519 23/8
Menzies Consolidated 2,588 6,609 2,564 51/-
Feman .. .. 3,040 9,515 4,889 62/3
Queen of the Hills 4,344 6,449 2,650 29/8
’• 2 ’ 670 4 ’ 803 1,321 35/11
Bullfinch Prop. .. 6,316 11,586 5,378 36/8
South Kalgurli .. 9,861 10,103 304 20/6
Golden Ridge .. 2,639 3,804 548 27/6
Kyarra .. .. 890 3,915 i )6 90 87/10
Black Range .. 3,017 6,158 681 40/9
Mountain Queen .. 4,055 3,771 993 18/7
Lake View Consols 8,5261 1,310 162 3/9
Boulder No. 1 .. 2,1111 1,319 633 12/6
Ida H. .. .. 1,470 4,341 687 59/-
Commodore .. 860 1,330 42 30/11
Boulder Perseverance 20,463 18,008 1 213 17/7
Great Fingall . . 2,390 7,040§ 2,619
Burbanks Main Lode 1,256 2,344 1 115 37/3
Marvel Loch 903 65
included £4872 (capital). fln-
cludes £2696 derived from iTon Duke lease. told
tailings. §Mad,e up of returns from own and a
little customs ore.
* * * *
Westralia’s output of minerals other than
1913 amounted to £332,577, of which
£142,363 represented copper, £70,692 tin, £2O 376
silver £53,524 lead ore, and £45,622 miscellaneous,
the total exports to date aggregate £3,432,973.
Augusta, at Laverton (W.A.), threatens
to get a move on at last. The long overdue treat-
ment plant is in position, and crushing is expected
to be started in a month. A strong doubt still
exists about the mine’s ability to keep the mill
going for long.
* * * *
From “Oof Bird,” on tourGwalia and
Meekatharra are the two bright stars in the Western
mining firmament. A shoot nearly 1100 ft. in length
has been exposed at No. 19 level in the Sons of
Gwalia, and, barring odd patches of low-grade stuff,
it is good throughout. Preparations are being made
(or rather were being made a few weeks ago) to
open out at the 20th level, resume shaft sinking
below that point, get the new producer-gas plant in
working order, and put the cyanide section in train
for the treatment of about 100,000 tons of accumu-
lated slimes Fingall’s internal shaft is now in
use, and reorganisation of the surface power plant
is under way. Developments generally continue satis-
factory’ and some good stuff is showing in the
bottom of No. 7 winze below No. 18 level Lustre
lias been added to Black Range’s prospects of per-
manency m depth by the discovery at 1000 ft. from
S1 ™ aC , e some . specimen ore in the Yuanmi
9°'f Black Range mine. Already the local papers
have got themselves excited over the enhanced
prospects, and are asking Hans Irvine, now visiting
the field, what he thinks about it Fenian at
Meekatharra, is looking well and doing well One
or two other shows on the same line are also keeping
their end up, but others have sickened a bit of late
The neighboring Queen of the Hills, owned by Lake
, Vl 'f v ,, an<:l .Oroya, had a good run last month, but
had the misfortune early in February to break the
crank shaft of the engine. This means a stoppage
for several weeks. At Yiigarn the Mountain Queen
gazes at the Great Victoria with something like the
feeling of the fox who eyed the grapes. It would
like it very much, but the figure is too high. If one
side would only go up and the other come down a bit
business would soon result. Meantime the “Queen”
crowd are pondering over the problem of ore treat-
ment at their second string—the Transvaal mine.
Owing to recent developments not coming up to
expectations, they may not get beyond the pondering
stage for some time, if at all.
* * * *
Great Boulder proposes to get the drill
going on its Stawell (Vic.) options right away. On
the co. s sampling, there are 100,000 tons of 7dwt
to Bdwt. ore m sight, and if boring indicates more
peeper ground the option will be exercised and a
15,000-ton-a-month plant installed. This, with pre-
liminary expenditure in prospecting, purchase con-
sideration, etc., would absorb the greater part of the
co. s present reserve fund of £165,000. On a 30s
recovery it will take some time to get this back
witn interest.
* * * *
r F g ,™ e . “ onths ago Burbanks Main
( T w - A -) added to its plant, and for the year
ended July last crushed ore above the average grade
to pay for the additions. During this period £10,243
was spent on plant and a profit of £BOl9 was made,
bmce then, less tonnage than previously has been
treated, and with high costs net results are not
what they are used to be. A pinched reef is said to
be the chief trouble.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe had to lay up for three
days in January owing to machinery'mishaps. The
stoppage is reflected in the return, but with a full
™ n , and A n ™P roved grade of ore the yield ought
9'-Rnfe bett^ r j 41 ? 1 ? n, 9 nth - Cages are now down to
2iBott„ and driving has been started on No. 4 lode.
On this most of the mine’s future depends.
Melbourne option-holders have taken pos-
session of the Bohemia lease at Southern Cross, and
seem to have got hold of something good. The reef
is valued at 2oz. over 7ft. at the 125 ft. level, and
it is proposed to obtain most of the purchase con-
sideration from the proceeds of 500 to 1000 tons of
this ore which it is intended to break out and treat.
A crushing of 100 tons now being treated by the
owners is expected to average 3oz.
* * * *
Norseman (W.A.) is elated over the
diamond-drill discovery of payable ore at 300 ft.
below the present bottom workings in the Mararoa.
the vein is 2ft. thick and assays 355., which, after
all, isn t much to get excited over. As the main
shoot pitches to the south, another bore is to be
put down from the same point to try to cut values
at about the same depth and 100 ft. further south,
that bore will be well worth watching, inasmuch as
want of persistence at depth has always been the
held s weakest point.
* * * *
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), has lost its
punch, and only made both ends meet during last
half-year. Nos. 8 and 9 drives remain about as rocky
as Stony Point. Pair reefs exist on both the verti-
cals, but the gold is “demned little.” So the official
idea is to use the reserve of £3OOO to push 8 and 9
levels south with the object of picking up the North
lonLi °! _ on > a^SO to sink the shaft to
1200 ft. with the idea of groping round at that
depth. This programme will tost a lot. As there
isn t proof that the North’s shoot carries enough
profit to gild a pawnbroker’s sign, the co. might very
well go slow over the driving till the battery talks
on the North mine. Sinking is another matter; that
can t be shirked. Certainly there is hardly a mine
at Daylesford which at depth has been worth anything
to anyone except the machinery merchants; jet
Ajax has been so profitable higher up that it ought
to be given the run that George Buchanan proposes.
* * *
Out of a revenue of £12,797 last half year
Johnsons Reef, Bendigo, cut up £l4OO in divs.
That doesn’t mean that the old mine is on its beam
ends, for it has 1000 ft. on the Collman and Tacchi
Jine before reaching the north boundary, and the
reef at 1730 ft. is giving some good prospects. Then,
too, there is the side show which brought in all
the divs. at No. 3 shaft. The gjrade here is low, but
the work to the south may give sweetening, or the
inner reef below 1150 ft. may prove productive. So
there is a bit to work on even if plum-pudding stone
has disappeared from the No. 3 shaft 1150 ft. level.
* * * *
It is hard to tell just where the Penzance
tin mine, North Dundas (Tas.), stands. Financial
results so far have been wretched; yet the story is
t°’‘‘ that “the co. never had such prospects ahead,
and the adoption of a vigorous and unhampered de-
velopmental policy should be undertaken forthwith.”
As 6i tons of 71 p.c. tin concentrates represent what
was got for six months, there isn’t much performance
to back up the promise. Defective or deficient plant
may account for a lot; but the mine needs cold treat-
ment before more calls are met.
* * * *
The share capital of the Bowen Coal Co.
was quickly subscribed in Brisbane, and the concern
starts life with an influential directorate. W. R
Black, Captain Richards, T. C. Beirne, J. F. Church
and T. J. Rothwell are on the Board. There are
four square miles of coal country, and if the seams
develop on satisfactory lines no doubt there will be
a railway. If there is a fly in the butter it will be
found to be the coking of large quantities of the
coal through ancient volcanic heat.
* * * *
At Charters Towers the cutting of a few
inches of heavily mineralised stone in the New Queen
Central has brought shares into favor locally. ' The
January return was £503 from 131 tons. Clark’s
Brilliant and Day Dawn has driven on its Moonstone-
Treasure reef for 30ft. A parcel of 18 tons aver-
aged £lO 16s. without the tailings, which will be
sold. The gold is worth £3 9s. per oz., and at
that value 3oz. stone should be profitable even from
a reef only sin. thick. Another crosscut is byeing
driven into the hanging wall 189 ft. from the shaft.
Amalgamated Monkland and Glanmire,
Gympie, has cut into quartz showing colors of gold
at the 1160 ft. level. Prospecting has previously been
the shaft without any good
result, and subsequently the eastern crosscut was
started in the hope of picking up the Great Eastern
reef unfavorable slate country. The theory is that
a deeper bed of slate is underlying the conglomerate
penetrated by the shaft. The first favorable indica-
tion was at 1068 ft. vertical, where a black plumbago
floor, was passed through. This prospecting has been
subsidised by the State. East Oriental and Glanmires
have had a smart rise because the clean-up of amal-
| am f rom 202 tons) was highly satisfactory.
f he 2100 ft. west level has shown coarse colors of
gold, but the stone as yet proved C limited. The
best hope is that payable stuff will be met in deeper
country, and prospecting is being continued on the
dip of the formation.
* * * *
The Bluff Colliery, one of Bananaland’s
fairly promising infants, is up against something
solid. Its best customer, the Railway Department,
has been paying 10s. 6d. a ton, but now says it can’t
go beyond Bs. 6d. at the pit’s mouth—the price it
pays Blair Athol. The Bluff, owing to higher hewing
rates, etc., declares it cannot do it at the money,
and argues that Bluff coal delivered at Rockhampton
is easily cheaper than Athol or Ipswich. Commis-
sioner Evans can only see the business side of the
matter, so acting-Premier Barnes has been asked to
whisper a few favorable words in his ear. Barnes
has promised—but it was a very hesitating promise.
Mine-engineer Newman, who has been
testing gold-dredging properties in Papua for Sydney
people, is back, and his pockets don’t bulge with
options. There may be dredging propositions in the
Possession, but Newman does not think they are
either numerous or rich. He went to the Yodda,
which hitherto has been supposed to offer the best
chances, but found values disappointing.
* * * *
The first proper oil-boring outfit made in
Adelaide was exhibited by Forwood and Co. last
week. It has been designed to suit local conditions,
and will be sent at once to Eyre’s Peninsula, about
40 miles from Port Lincoln. K. S. Moure, an Ameri-
can , oil-man, will be in charge of the drilling. To
Adelaide, therefore, belongs the credit of making the
first start to bore for petroleum in Australia with
dentil t machinery in the ri ff ht P lace t 0 the right
* * * »
Woodlark Island, the coral patch which
has been pushed up out of the sea off the Papuan
coast, and is now a fair-sized lump of rock (most
of it still overlaid with coral), has hopes of getting
some of J Bull’s capital shortly. Its richest gold-
producer, the Woodlark King, along with one or
two other properties, is under option to a man
who, coming out to do some planting, decided that
fie could make more money by floating a mining
co. in London. He should arrive there this month
Meantime the King is under suspension. The owners
have taken out some wonderful crushings; but the
water is always a bother—water-level is somewhere
about 30ft., as a rule, and the flow is very heavy
It was the same for some years at Kulamadau!
winch is also on the island; but there they have
got the best of it, and that mine is now compara-
tively dry. 1
* * *
Kampong Kamunting (Malay Peninsula)
expects to have its first dredge at work about Sep-
tember. A yarn has been passing round, in Mel-
bourne especially, that close boring had knocked the
bottom out of the results of the early tests. As a
matter of fact, what boring has been done since the
option-holders ran the rule over the claim has given
about one-fifth more tin to the yard than ' those
already reported.
* * * *
Mount Bischoff (Tas.) is considered by
its admirers as an investment; so in spite of a
reduction of the monthly dividend to 7s. 6d. per
share, the market is about £5O on 12,000 shares, or
£600,000 the lot. The latest estimate of reserves
is 2,176,000 tons —enough at the present rate of ex-
traction to last about nine years. The average
quality is very much a guess, for no less than
12,942 tons of ore out of 135,543 tons raised were
cast out as unprofitable last half-year. The stuff
treated (122,601 tons) averaged under | p.c. black
tin, and gave less than ss. profit ( £30,464 from
122,601 tons). Deducting 10 p.c. of the ore in
reserves as unprofitable, there are 1,958,400 tons
proved, which at ss. per ton would give an aggre-
gate profit of £489,600. It is obvious from this
that a big slice of the share-market value is specula-
tive. The actual extraction when milling and smelt-
ing losses are all accounted for is only a shade
over 71b. of pure tin per ton of ore, and 71b. of tin
at £lBO per ton are worth 11s. 3d. Working costs
at Waratah run to 4s. 9.655 d. Other costs are also
low, which enables this concern to produce a tin
concentrate at about £5O, or half its present com-
mercial value.
* * * *
Golden Reefs (Vic.) looks like doing
something. Results of 540 z. from 115 tons from this
reopened old property do not bear out the estimates ;
but there is a good width of stone and expenses are
modest. Golden Reefs is a bread-and-butter mine
for Australians. With English management it might
easily be a catastrophe.


GIN AND SCHNAPPS.
No one likes gin or schnapps for their taste, but
a little O.T. added gives both spirits a really deli-
cious flavor, that only needs testing to be appre-
(Uo+pH *
Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE/
m
CHAMPAGHt
OarlesHcidsie*
Reims
(yj) •*»<»*'
To H.M.
George V ,
FARMER’S—
Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies.
Following we quote our list of moderate
charges for expert workmanship in Hairdress-
ing and Massage:—-
Plain HAIRDRESSING.
With Marcel Waving
Marcel Waving ..
Cutting
Singeing
Shampooing
With Plain Dressing
With Marcel Waving
Electric Hair Treatment —-
One Treatment
Course of five
„ MASSAGE.
Face —- One Treatment
Course of nine
Scalp— One Treatment
Course of five
Bust— One Treatment
Course of five ..
CHIROPODY, each foot from
GIRLS’ HAIRCUTTING .. u x ,
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt. Market «nd George Streets.
BUCHANAN’S
Black. ®, White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, February 23, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
A dull February is being brightened up
some by many weddings, all of them “a
little bit different,” like every vaudeville
artist. February 24 is the fateful day fixed
for the marriage of Fred Kendall, son of the
poet Henry Kendall, to Miss Florence
Adams, daughter of K. H. Adams, of Chats-
wood. By doing a little calculation you will
discover that they are already married, bar
accidents, when this meets your eye.
Another wedding which stirred the stag-
nant air of the short month like an
electric fan was that of Miss Jean
Walker, of Folkestone, Lavender Bay,
whose late father was the owner of
Gillendoon. a paying pastoral proposition in
the South-AVest, and Mr. Freidrich Kirchner,
a German by birth and an Australian by
choice. Very small was the party for the
ceremony, which was celebrated in Scottish
fashion “ben the hoose,” with Mrs. Walker
as hostess and two sisters as bridesmaids.
Mr. Hilger was best man, and the “Voice”
and Wedding March were played on the
piano by Miss Gertrude Palmer. The Mar-
mora bore off Mr. and Mrs. Kircliner on
their wedding tour, which is to be
of six months duration. On their
return they will settle down at Strath-
kyle, Bligh-street, wherein the bride-
groom has been for some time installed in a
most luxurious flat, adorned with a fine col-
lection of old ivories and curios, besides the
ordinary chairs and tables. (Owing to the
present epidemic of fires I may state, as a
saving clause, that if Strathkyle happens to
be an unrecognisable cinder when they come
back they will settle somewhere else.)
In the course of their wanderings the newly-
weds will visit Mrs. Kirchner, sen., of Mann-
heim, Germany.
Above wedding was the very suddenest
ever. The date was only fixed a week before-
hand, but the bridegroom must have had
some inside information, for he had booked
a two-berthed cabin in the Marmora six
months previously. Miss Walker has been
writing up social doings for the Austral-
asian for some years. Now her pomp and
billet fall to Mrs. Kettlewell (Agnes Storrie).
Just before sailing Mr. and Mrs. Kirchner
gave a luncheon party, by way of farewell, to
a select few. The bride is something of a
linguist and speaks German fluently, and can
do mental arithmetic in several languages.
They say that several damsels have been soak-
ing themselves in Ollendorf of late, to qualify
for the position of being legally entitled to give
this gilded young man curtain lectures in his
mother tongue, for he was distinctly one of
the catches of the season. Everybody
wishes Mr. and Mrs. Kirchner the best of
luck for the rest of time.
Miss Tucky Weekes (whose name is an
inspiration for the title of a ragtime melody),
daughter of the late Dr. Weekes, of Neutral
Bay, was very quietly married —(Do you
notice that all the weddings are so “quiet”
now, they’re nearly inaudible?) —quietly and
breathlessly married and wedded in a whis-
per, to Mr. Tom Yorke, of this city, on
Thursday, at the old tabernacle on Church
Hill. Guests were invited to view the cere-
mony only. No subsequent cake-cutting or
tea-drinking went on. Travelling clothes
were worn by both bride and bridegroom.
Mrs. Mary Salmon gave a kitchen tea before-
hand, and many useful articles were raked
in.
There are three daughters of the house
of Innes-Noad, all of them live wires.
Therefore any news about them is seized on
with joy and deep interest. Cicely, the
second, is the latest to find her name in the
papers. She is engaged to Lieut. Geoffrey
Stuart, of the Encounter. Her family live
at Ivingsclerc Mansions, Potts Point, but
they are all going off to Melbourne soon,
leaving Cicely to be chaperoned by Mrs.
Marie Irvine, the well-known scribe. Miss
Cicely can do heaps of things and all of
them well. Her dancing of the Tango places
her above most of the Society girls who
wobble warily through the tricky measure.
Then she can cook, keep house, dress make,
and is an expert laundress for the finest
lingerie (the sort of laundry work they
charge you half a crown apiece for and
then most likely scorch your best nightie).
Also she is winsome and pretty. The lucky
man who has got this lady to say “yes” has
a rather romantic little story. His mother,
a Mrs. Edwards, with a family of six chil-
dren, came to Sydney some years ago. Then
there arrived on the scene a British war-
ship with an old sweetheart on board, Lieu-
tenant Stuart, and they were married and
lived happily ever after —or as long as “ever
after” lasted, for eternity isn’t finished yet.
The step-father, now Rear-Admiral Stuart,
adopted all the family, who legally acquired
his surname, placed the four boys in the
navy, and generally behaved more like a
fairy godmother than an actual step-
father. The two girls are both married and
living in Australia. One was quite lately
wedded, up to which time she was acting
as secretary to Madge Titheradge.
Haidee De Lissa’s wedding dress has been
hanging on its peg in her wardrobe for ever
so long now, but she can’t somehow get a
chance to wear it. The latest shuffle of the
cards of Fate sends Mr. and Mrs. Montague
De Lissa, of Neutral Bay, and their only re-
maining unmarried daughter off across the
Pacific to North America in the Ventura.
Haidee’s young man, Mr. Doddemeade, is
patiently waiting for her in Perth all this
time, but she must look after her father and
mother. She will, in all likelihood, return
from California in the next boat, five weeks
after her arrival in America, and reward
her faithful waiter by marrying him then.
Great was the surprise of those present on
Saturday at Randwick racecourse when the
Governor allowed his daughter, Miss Cecilia
Strickland, to soar aloft with young Harry
Hawker in his Sopwith biplane. To all the
women in the flying-ground the momentous
question of what is the correct garb for
flying was settled by seeing the vice-
regal girl being lifted into the passenger’s
seat in just ordinary white togs, and a
tightly fitting small hat with a veil. The
flight looked so easy when Lord Denman
was aloft that people forgot to remember
the act was an extremely plucky one
for an avowed asthmatic like our Viceroy-
Gqneral. It was a breathless rush, but he
apparently went through the skies without
a gasp, and lunched on clouds yet acquired
no indigestion thereby. Although Lord Den-
man blew the dust of Sydney off his bell-
topper some time ago, yet by flying about
over our heads he can manage to be in this
careless city without breaking his resolve.
At the same time he can look down with
literal exactitude and from the scoff of a
great elevation on his evictors. His Ex.
showed his sense of all this by a remark,
which, under the circumstances, was rather
cutting. To the subsequent interviewer he
said, “I do not know Sydney very well, so I
was unable to identify the places beneath
me.” There’s a pathetic touch about that.
Certainly Premier Holman gave no chance
for the identification of the top of his head
from above. He was bringing it back from
Maoriland aboard the Moeraki at the time.
Miss Ruby Dixon bears a name which we
often see on a popular beverage. A Mel-
bourne girl and a personal friend of the in-
trepid Harry, Miss Dixon looked very charm-
ing as she sat in the seat ready to fly with
him. The attendance inside the gates was
big, but not as big as the attendance which
viewed the flying on the never outside. If
people grudge a humble bob to see the most
marvellous invention of man to date they
are well in the running for the mean-man
championship. They missed the best part of
it all, and serve them right. Perfectly won-
derful was the run and whiz of the biplane
before it soared right up like a skylark. Then
there was an especial thrill when the flying
man glided about just above the height of
the tree guards. An enthusiastic spectator
remarked, “Why, that biplane is far cleverer
than a bird. Man has got Nature beat again,
as usual.” “But Nature made man,” re-
marked a right-thinking person coldly. Of
course he couldn’t prove it, not having been
there at the beginning, but the observation
seemed profound, and it struggled through.
At the flying were the Colin Stephens, just
back from England, Mrs. Sydney Jamieson,
Mr. and Mrs. Theo Marks, Mrs. Herbert
Marks, Miss Elsie Austin, the Frank Os-
bornes, Jimmy Osborne, Mrs. Leslie Wills-
Allen and the Lang Wants.
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Chapman, of Bris-
bane. have gone to Kosciusko for a change.
The Mount and its hostelry are always popu-
lar with Queenslanders. Mr. and Mrs.
Clarke and their family and some friends
have been staying there. Mr. Clarke is a
partner with Captain Smith in pearl fish-
eries up North and in the West, which have
brought them stacks of money. They don’t
fish for pearls, only for pearl-shells, but
they are always glad to see a little “perk”
in the form of a pearl inside the oyster. The
two families are connected with the Smiths
of Goderich, in Bayswater-road, the house
that was pulled down to make way for a
wider road.
The Harry Peters were entertained at
luncheon by Dr. and Mrs. Ward on Friday,
after which they left for Melbourne by ex-
press. He has been over here on business,
and has now returned to his post as Mel-
bourne representative of Sydney Telegraph.
Mrs. Peters was a belle of former days in
Melbourne, and now looks like the not-much-
elder sister of her two sons.
Miss M. Windeyer, known to her friends
as “Margie,” who is to be found in working
hours in the MSS. room of the Mitchell
Library, has set up housekeeping with her
two sisters. They have taken a nice little
cottage in Newcastle-street, Rose Bay.
The sale of Mrs. Walter Hardy’s furniture
last Thursday drew many eager buyers, for
the house, formerly known as Stoke Edith
but re-christened after the appalling double
tragedy of last month, held veritable treasures
m the way of really, truly antique pieces.
Women who were connoisseurs (should that
be connoisseuses” ?) turned chairs upside
down and peered under tables in their
anxiety to see if the right marks were there.
All a bootless quest, for “antiques” are
faked so perfectly nowadays that the fakers
put in worm holes, rub off sharp corners
and rub in alleged wine-stains when they
are making goods for the “period” market.
The Lebbeus Horderns bought largly at
the Walter Hardy sale. Of the genuineness
of the pieces there can be no doubt. Much
of the stuff is over a century old, which
gives it a peculiar value of its own. These
young people will soon be in their own
house, which they are having built for them
on Darling Point.
The Bert Wills-Allens gave a dance on
Thursday evening. They have taken the
Ewan Frazers’ old place, Caerleon, Bellevue
Hill. A feature of the party was the an-
nouncement of the engagement of two young
people, who received the congratulations of
everybody, had their healths drunk, hands
warmly wrung, and the best of luck wished
them with enthusiasm. Then it turned out that
the whole thing was a hoax. The additional
toasting cost the host about £5O extra in
champagne. The ballroom was the wide
hall with inlaid floor.
J. S. Appel, Queensland Home Sec., is in
Sydney. He is best known by his little
brush with the missionary element in the
Gulf Country about three years ago. He
showed up the Yarrabah scandal, which
arose though the usual friction between our
Colored Brother and the men who wish to
turn him into a Wowser.
Press women are showing a friendly spirit
by throwing bouquets at each other, and
holding afternoon teas, working up meetings
and other little frivolities. The Patriotic
Club lent its rooms last Wednesday to the
Lyceum International, which chiefly con-
sists of women who write, for the purpose of
entertaining Mrs. Maude Knight. The lady
is a member of the London Lyceum, which
she dandled on her knee in its babyhood.
Now she rejoices to see it a fine, growing,
roving woman of the suffragette (but not
militant) type. Mrs. Knight, who counts as
a journalist, gave her story of the Club to
interested ears. Tea and talk filled in the
afternoon. Mrs. Ethel Turner Curlewis, her
sister Lilian, Dr. Iza Coghlan, Mrs. Harri-
son and others were hostesses. The Lyceum
International was called into being by Mrs.
Rose Soley, who has worked tooth and nail
to make the thing go, and after a few first
preliminary staggers it promises to go at
last. It has a name, and too long a name,
but a local habitation is badly needed.
Dressed all as Portias in red or as Nerissas
in black the women writers of Sydney are
going to run a stall at the forthcoming
Shakspeare carnival. There will be five days
of it, for the affair will slop over both sides
of the bard’s birthday, and there will be
several days’ slop on each side. The
writers’ stall will be set as a scene in “The
Merchant of Venice.” A suggestion that the
press-women should choose “Macbeth” in-
stead and draw lots for the roles of the
weird sister was coldly negatived at a
bustling preliminary meeting on Thursday,
with Mrs. Amy Harrison in the chair. Mrs.
Harrison, like all the Macks, is full of energy
and notions, and the writers’ stall will be
one of the attractions of the fair. With
the money obtained I fancy that the Shak-
speare Society is going to build a statue to
William, but the fancy is only vague and is
liable to correction.
On Thursday there is to be a meeting in
connection with the doll show which Arthur
Rickard is getting up for the Children’s
Hospital. Mrs. Richards, Mayoress, will
preside. A doll show ought to be popular,
because dolls are far and away the best
selling things at any bazaar, and the dress-
ing of them presents a fascinating study to
most of us. A bad mistake is to price these
toys too high. Jack Cannot auctioned two
dolls on Friday, on behalf of the Benevolent
Society. They were a badly-dressed
“Quaker Girl” and “Ivy Schilling,” but
brought inflated sums. It would have been
easier work to run them up if the dolls had
been better value.
The Tango—if it was the Tango—danced
by Ivy Schilling and Harry Stone at the
Charity Matinde on Friday looked frisky
enough for anything. But nobody is a
little bit shocked at the jewelled garter now.
These cheaply-attained sensations of the
more or less sartorial kind pale sooner than
any other known surprise. Every new idea,
consequently, must be more and more fiery
in its hotness to make its appeal. There is
a gown now on view in a big shop window
in Pitt-street which, on the wearer, would be
calculated to make all beholders’ hats rise
right off their heads with amazement. Yet,
doubtless, after this style becomes adopted,
and about half a dozen women are seen wear-
ing it —well, “wearing” is not the word, for
there is apparently nothing there to wear,
but accompanying it or displaying its trans-
parencies—the callous public will pass it
without the flicker of an eyelid. The gown
in question is draped in a swirl of folds just
above the knee. Above that there is nothing
but black tulle over a flesh-pink petticoat,
with a single large rose just above the waist
in front, then a lot of nothingness and more
black tulle. The general idea may be said
to be startling. Yet some bold young thing
will sport it, and in time modest grandmoth-
ers will be wearing it.
Neville May man’s clothes were the most
splendid feature of the Charity Matinee at
Her Majesty’s on Friday. Those gorgeous
satin-lined frock-coats require the footlights
to show off their full beauty. The sheen of
the satin caught the electric glare, and Mr.
Mayman was brilliant everywhere, for his
boots were bright and his speech was well-
polished. The name Ilordern ran through
the speech like a “leit-motif” in a Wagner
opera, and the' setting of the motif was to
the musical tune of one hundred of the best.
Every Hordern in this city, apparently, gave
that sum to the Benevolent Sociey, of which
Mr. Mayman is head.
The matinee was a huge success, although
the awful mugginess of the atmosphere
weighed down the audience until, in its ex-
haustion, it missed one hand with the other
when it tried to clap. A gift of £lOOO
might have got a hand, but mere hundreds
called forth but languid applause. The
Lady Mayoress and that civic institution,
Mr. Layton, and many notables decorated
the boxes and crowded dress circle. The
prettiest hat in the house was worn by Mrs.
Hugh Mclntosh ; it was of black velvet, with
a big (imitation) aigrette in front, caught
by a diamond brooch —the hat she wore at
Lily Fowlde’s wedding to Claude Corbett.
It has waved its aigrette in every suburban
picture show since then, for the Corbett-
Mclntosh wedding film was one of the best
done here.
Actors’ Hay still lingers in gossip on ac-
count of Fred Niblo’s witticisms. That
chirpy comedian is an undeniable wit, being
very spontaneous. His freak collection
was got going before the other shows were
well in place. Megaphone at mouth, Niblo
drew the public in. One of his best hits
concerned Julius Knight, who strolled into
the tent to see snakes. Miss Phillips,
daughter of “Rock,” the property man, was
the charmer, and she handed Julius a long
reptile which curled lovingly round his neck.
Fred Niblo rushed out and yelled through
his megaphone, “Come in and see Julius
Knight in his great snake-charming act.”
There was a full house immediately. It was
Rock Phillips’s daughter who had charge
of the snake used in “The Speckled Band”
and “Kismet.” She loves the reptiles, and
does not mind them roping themselves around
her.
The Actors’ Association dinner was quite
a social event. The Bert Wills-Allens,
Frank Macdonalds, Mrs. Metcalfe Jackson,
the Keigwins, and Miss Irene Browne were
ar the feast.
We are plunging into Lent. To-morrow
will be Shrove Tuesday, but it makes very
little different during a meat famine whether
it is Lent or Christmas. Nobody seems to
know anything yet about Easter gaieties.
The Sydney season has become very elastic
of late. It stretches out both ways and
dances are now held at unholy times of the
year. If a hostess wishes to give a party
she just gives it, regardless of the calendar.
By telephone she can generally manage to
collect enough dancers. Hence the carefully-
planned, long-thought-out dances of past
years are too old-fashioned to suit the gay
youths and maidens of to-day. Years ago a
discreet frivol like the “kangaroo dance”
could stagger humanity, but nobody at a
modern dance would dare to be so dull as to
call that hop shocking. One partner for the
whole evening is now the rule at the best
dances where the new steps are in vogue.
Unless we get something to eat pretty
soon, that is not tinned dog or spaghetti, we
shall soon be all able to do our own flying on
our own wings freed from mortal clay. We’ll
all starve to death if we do not effect a
change in the way things are going on. A
whole city-full suffering want and privation
in a meek and uncomplaining spirit is a
sight to make a militant suffragette scoff
and snort with contempt. She has most
likely been forcibly fed with meat; we have
to forcibly climb over many policemen to get
some meat. And the only prospect we
have is that, when the butchers condescend
to resume operations, meat will be dearer
than ever. There is even a threat that the
price of policemen will go up.
Everybody pities the poor landladies in
a tucker strike. Theirs is never the rosiest
of billets. Boarders will grumble even when
they are not at that stage of hunger that
the mere dream or vision of a loin chop
beautifully grilled can give them thought
too deep for tears. But now! Heavens!
It’s really too dreadful for words. The loud
cursing and wailing about the shortness of
tucker rises in a volume of sound from
every suburb. One hash lady of my
acquaintance manages thus : She feeds break-
fast to her boarders and then frankly tells
them they must forage for themselves for all
other meals. So they prowl around city
restaurants at meal times seeking what they
may devour, and remark that if they had
only been Daniel they would have fried one
of the lions.
Mrs. William McMillan will entertain the
Council of the British Empire League next
Saturday.
Yours affectionately,
CLEO.


VICE-REQAL
ħ
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Solid Silver Manicure Sets
Intending purchasers of a present of this description for
a lady have an opportunity for selection from an extensive
stock of goods in Solid Silver, plain or engraved, Enam-
elled Silver, Silver-mounted Tortoiseshell, Ivory or Ebony.
INSPECTION INVITED.
HARDY BROS Ll°
HAND ENGRAVED SOLID SILVER MANICURE SET, with Chippen-
dale Border. Best Quality Cutlery in Case, with Reirovable Tray.
£ll.
Write for a copy of our Illustrated Catalogue.
Selections of new goods sent to the country on approval.
Hardy Brothers Limited,
Vice-Regal Jewellers ,
13 Hunter St., Sydney ; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 West Smithfield, E.C.
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
FIGURES TALK.
1,500,000 Copies soid of the Celebrated
•‘BOOKSTALL” Series of Australian Books.
This is the most popular Series and successful Library of Books ever issued.
The selection of stories is clean and wholesome, and treats with the conditions ot lite
in our sunny land, telling the traditions and experiences of a virile people appealing
to the heart of all Australians.
The stories issued form a complete library, and should be in every home.
STORIES OF ROMANCE.
STORIES OF ADVENTURE.
DETECTIVE STORIES.
BUSHRANGING STORIES.
SPORTING STORIES.
HUMOROUS STORIES.
SELECTION STORIES.
HISTORICAL STORIES.
Attractively bound in colored wrappers and illustrated. All one price,
1/1, post free.
JUST PUBLISHED. ..-pME CALLING VOICE,” By E. P. CHRISTIE.
A Story of the Australian Bush. With Eight Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay.
The power of the calling voice of the Bush is splendidly illustrated in this book, where a young
farmer marries a city girl, and takes her to live outback; but, although lie provides her with
everything she can wish, her desire for “society” induces him to try residence in the Big Smoke.
An endless round of hollcw pleasures soon satiates them, however, and the call of the Busli
becomes insistent.
SPORTING BOOKS.
“The Spokt of Kings” has perhaps a bigger hold upon Australians than upon any other nation on
the earth. Born amongst horses, they love a good mount, and rejoice in the emulation that produces
the winners. These sporting books contain rattling racing yarns, stories of “The King, ’ and tales
of all sorts relating to sport in general. Likewise they are all purely Australian.
A ROGUE’S LUCK, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
The reader is introduced to the undercurrent of the racing and boxing fraternity, and is never
short of excitement. „ . , .
GAMBLER’S GOLD, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
Illustrating the difficulties that beset the path of the gambler, whether in the two-up school, at
the card table, or on the turf. This story is full of “life” as found in the above-mentioned places.
THE MARE WITH THE SILVER HOOF, by 808 ALLEN. 1 /-, Post b roe 1/1.
A rattling racing yarn, dealing with the “tricks of the trade” as practised in certain circles, and
telling how a favorite mare righted a woman’s wrong. A really good story.
EROS. EROS WINS! by F. AGAR. 1/-, Post Free 1/1.
A good horse is not always allowed to win, and many of the doubtful methods of preventing him
are exposed herein.
RUNG IN, by ARTHUR WRIGHT. 1/-, Post Free 1/1. .........
An attractive tale of the “turf,” with an excellent plot that reveals scenes and incidents lull ot
fun, fraud and tragedy. ,
THAC H? eDDMrCD Australia’s Subtlest Humorist, and the writer of the best
1 IIL/Oi Li or tlNy tl\, Australian Recitations and Sketches this side
PRICE, 1/- per Vol. ; Post Free, 1/1. of the Equator.
Year after year he maintained that reputation, and he never sent to his publisher any book
that public opinion bad not voted a DECIDED SUCCESS. Those who are fond of GENUINE
HUMOR and a HEARTY LAUGH should start with “McDOUGALL,” and go right, down the list
It can be done for a SHILLING A SHOT, and will prove money well spent. Every book teems with
splendid RECITATIONS, such as clever amateurs love, and the variety is endless. the List to uate.
How McDougall Topped the Score.
The Spring Cleaning.
Bindawalla.
Why Doherty Died.
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget
McSweeney.
The Haunted Shanty.
That Droll Lady.
Steele Rudd’s Great Australian Books
In Cheap Editions. Price, Is. each ; Post Free, Is. Id.
All the Celebrated Illustrations have been retained, as these New Cheap Editions are printed from
the Original Stereos.
Sandy’s Selection.
Back at Our Selection.
From Selection to City.
On Our Selection.
Our New Selection.
The Dashwoods.
The Poor Parson.
Duncan McClure.
For Life.
Dad in Politics.
Stocking Our Selection.
On an Australian Farm.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
Take advantage of this offer to have a PIANOLA PIANO
in your home To-morrow !
L-r"
%
mm
|RS*I
$
YOU know by experience how essential music is to a really modem home —with-
out the good old melodies and songs, without ragtime for the younger folk
and operatic and classical gems for the elder ones, no house party can be a
complete sucess. To enjoy this wealth of melody it is not enough to possess an
ordinary piano, for expert pianists are scarcer than pianos, whilst the musical
demands of a party are tiring and exacting. What you need now is the Pianola
Piano, which will enable you to play your own music, to select your own pro-
gramme from the world’s greatest and most popular musical works, and which will
give the keenest personal pleasure to all who play it.
The Pianola Piano is sold upon
terms that ever y Home can afford.
No longer does the purchase of a Pianola Piano involve a large initial outlay—
anyone of the most moderate means can walk into Pianola Hall and see there
dozens of instruments that he can comfortably afford. Here are four examples,
showing the wide range of terms upon which a genuine Pianola Piano can be
obtained, and these are but four of many:—
Steinway Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment o!
£l5 Down
and the balance in monthly instalments.
Weber Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment of
£l5 Down
and the balance in monthly instalments.
Steck Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment ol
£lO Down
and the balance In monthly instalments.
Stroud Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment of
£5 Down
and the balance in monthly instalments.
If you arc not already the owner of
a piano, please fill in this
Coupon.
Please send me your illustrated Cata-
logue and full details of all models of the
Pianola Piano which are purchasable by
monthly instalments of about
£
Name
Address
These terms are especially remarkable when you realise that they do not refer to any
ordinary player-piano, but to the genuine Pianola Piano, which has always been an instru-
ment of distinctive and superior qualities —invariably the choice of the wealthiest and
most critical purchaser.
Owners of Pianos can obtain a genuine
Pianola Piano at a greatly reduced expenditure
If you have a piano that is rarely played and desire to replace it by a Pianola Piano we
will make you a generous allowance if this instrument is given in part exchange an
allowance that will greatly reduce your expenditure. To know what allowance we are
prepared to make upon your present piano please fill in and post the coupon that
appears in the right-hand bottom corner of this advertisement.
h
If you do not already possess a piano remember that however small a sum you are
prepared to pay there is certain to be a Pianola Piano to suit your pocket, so therefore
ĥ
fill in the coupon in the left-hand bottom corner and post at once,
coupon you use it should be posted without delay.
Whichever
The Pianola Piano is the genuine Pianola, combined with the famous Steinway, Weber,
Steck or Stroud Piano. You are invited to play it at the Exhibition now m progress at
Pianola Hall.
If you possess a piano of any kind,
please fill in this Coupon.
Please let me know the best allowance
you can make towards the cost of a
Pianola Piano upon my present instru-
ment, which is a
(Make)
Purchased about
(Date)
Original ccst
Name
Address
» «» CIN^.
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
Pty.
Ltd.
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE /
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE ;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
London, Berlin, New York, etc.
ħ


For Dress Occasions
Wear a “VICTOR” Dinner Suit
v
Farmer’s “Victor” Dinner Suits are models of refinement, correct in every
detail and ideal for all dress occasions.
Made for long, satisfactory service in a series of sizes which enables us to
fit any figure perfectly and at once. Material is superior quality Black
Dress Venetian. Coats have silk facings and step or roll collars.
70s. :: The SUIT :: 70s.
When ordering by post, please state inside sleeve, waist and inside leg
measurement. Farmer’s pay carriage to all parts of Australia.
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
Sydney.
h
“The Fashion in Fragrance! ”
ParfOn)
The essence of the Lilac Bloom!
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per=
fume in Australia, Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of dtl Stores throughout Australia
Sole Agent—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/= per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 23, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Gisborne Golf Links, on the other side
3f the fashionable Mount Macedon, are
suffering from a dry summer attack of hard
ground. But none of the Best really had
the courage to mention the fact out loud,
until the little G.-G. complained of the
damage done to his favorite sticks. Then
suddenly everybody started to revile the
ground and condemn the disloyal climate.
None of those golfing loyalists would have
accepted the climate, if you had offered it to
them on a plate immediately after the G.-G.
had wailed his piece.
Aubrey Hoad, son of the late General,
has bought a place at Macedon, and is
busily scrubbing and dusting the paddocks
and carrying furniture into the house.
Though no announcement has been made,
there are matrimonial rumors. Travelling
shows would seem to be off the bill now.
The Denman lady asked all those inter-
ested in her old clo’ and furniture show to
a party at Federal Government House, iu
the cool of Friday evening, just before din-
ner. Iced coffee and hot gossip came an
informal first on the programme, and nobody
made any objection, the day having been
very hot and tiresome. When the function
started, the big place was already feeling the
benefit of the cool evening change, and Cham-
berlain Nevill hurried round directing the
opening of windows. The Denman lady, at-
tended by the Creswell dame and Miss Chom-
ley, wandered round gathering ideas from
feverishly-eager guests, then drafted all
hands into a big lounge drawing-room, where
mock turtle speeches were indulged in. When
the last fashionable fishtail had swept in,
Helps Barttelot and Curwen shut the big
folding doors and stood on guard like soldiers,
with big bundles of tickets for sale. It was
magnificent, but it wasn’t war or anything
like it. Colin Templeton stood up aggres-
sively in dusty tan boots and asserted for-
cibly (though not with his feet) that he
wanted all expenses paid by sold tickets
before the show commenced. Carefully-
modulated screams of applause greeted these
words, or others to the same effect. The
Denman lady, dimpling with joy, then talked
coaxingly out of a toby frill (you could hear
the voice coming out quite plainly) and also
out of a blue gown: “The first four days we
will charge half a crown” (it was to have
been sixpence) “and the rest of the fortnight
one shilling.” (More screams.) After
some further talk her Ex. worked herself
into a mild ecstasy over the “detail” they
had been able to gather for each representa-
tive room. Not only had they got beds and
furniture, but they had procured books to
strew at each bedside, and warming-pans to
hang on the wall, or wherever such imple-
ments were kept. The Creswell dame then
appealed to owners of gardens for old-
fashioned flowers —roses, jasmine and the
like —to decorate the rooms with. Mr.
Swinburne made a long, serious speech with
real information in it. His audience yawned
behind its gloves, and her Ex. looked dis-
tinctly anxious. Were her plans to be
spoiled by a man ? They weren’t; Swin-
burne presently ran down and nothing more
was heard of him.
Then the exhibitors got together in
feathery clumps and skited amiably
about their various possessions. (Woman
is a collector all the time —a collector
and a caretaker and the historian of the
vase that Johnny broke 30 years ago.)
June Clapp-Macdonald, the proud boss of a
bride’s house so stuffed with antiques that
she uses a rock-drill instead of a latchkey,
spoke a piece from under a fly-away brown
tulle hat. (No, it doesn’t matter what she
said, my dear. I’ve told you all about her
hat.) Mrs Blomfield, a furniture-collecting
rival who had been competing with June at
an auction sale, began to talk in a soft drawl
about her Sheraton dining-room. She knew
that would stir up her rival. Sheraton nowa-
days is almost priceless. Twenty years ago
it was described as “rare” ; now it is almost
unobtainable in whole suites, and is there-
fore feverishly sought after by those who
have the money to engage in such pursuits.
Like true loyalists, the Blomfields are. sparing
their precious roomful for the vice-regal
show.
Mrs. Ross-Soden is supplying a mystery—
some precious thing, the identity of which
cannot be disclosed until the blessed show
begins. She also has a snuffbox of ebony
with a musical box in its case. The thing
plays tunes to this day, though the thing
was made before glass was much used. It
has a horn lining, just as clear as glass.
Both the Miller dames are heavily involved
in the performance. The Gregan McMahons
took bundles of tickets for sale, and Mrs.
Fred Payne and a Manifold dame exchanged
excited notes, threw up their hands, and their
eyes, and gave other signs of unlimited in-
terest. Mrs. Burston looked cool and quiet,
despite the fact that she had a Jacobean
cabinet up her sleeve. (Give Mrs. Burston
an empty chocolate box and a bunch of vio-
lets and she would conceal an elephant.)
Dr. Helen Sexton, an old clo’ and furniture
enthusiast, was busy all the time with Miss
Chomley, the secretary. The opening date
is March 31, and for 14 days thereafter there
will be shoving and shrieks.
State Governor Stanley had a bright, blue
day for his arrival. First the newly-im-
ported Excellency steamed in through the
Heads on the Osterley; then he was care-
fully transferred by red-felted gangway to
the cruiser Melbourne; later on, after a
fooling wait off Frankston, he was pushed
down another reddened gangway to the
chartered Hygeia, where a cheering mass of
politicians and their friends awaited him.
He was preceded by a tall and beautiful
military Help in scarlet and a no less lovely
naval Help in gold and black —or is it blue?
His Ex. was in full uniform, with a most
expensive assortment of medals and the in-
dispensable cocked hat —though I don’t see
that it would be any handier for bailing out
the dinghy of State than the ordinary
bowler. Lady Stanley followed him across
the plank—a fragile, pretty woman fashion-
ably attired (no, she didn’t wear her blouse
and skirt!) in putty-color, with a cute
little hat and a skirt split to the knee to
give a glimpse of putty-colored silk limb,
with shoes to match. The potentate and the
lady then held a reception, and weary
Society, wearing its dishevelled down-the-
bay expression, filed past and curtsied or
shook hands, according to its part in the
daylight panto. Of course, the really pretty
girls stood the test best. Prendergasfs
daughter, the McKinnon girl, and Miss
Murray were the most gracious spectacles
there. His Ex. stopped R. B. Rees as he
went to pass on with, “I’m Welsh too!”
The poor fellow had found a fellow-country-
man in the strange, savage land. There-
after the local Welshman hovered round the
other Welshman and waited his chance to
ask him to the St. David’s Day picnic on
the following Monday. The young man who
got the vice-regal situation is thick-set and
good-looking, with a mouth that turns up
perpetually at the corners and a humorous
gleam in his eye. He lingers over every
“Yes” in a way that will win the heart of
all the Taffies here.
One thing was overlooked in connection
with the new Governor’s welcome. There
was no special chair for him on the Hygeia,
and when he tried to sit on one of the ordi-
nary variety it collapsed. But for the fact
that he is young and sprightly, there would
have been a crash that might have shaken
the Empire.
Mrs. Gilruth and the Gilruth children are
with the husband-Administrator this trip
and staying with him at Menzies’. Mrs.
Gilruth complains of the intense heat of
dusty Melbourne, and says that it is quite
unlike Darwin.
Two “big” weddings have just wrung
presents out of Society, and two more of
even greater importance are yet to come.
The first raid happened on February 11,
when “Dudie” Griffiths was married to
Kenneth Niall. “Dudie” is the daughter
of the Griffiths of Marathon, Toorak, and
they did the thing well, especially as young
Niall is a Melbourne Club young man with
a standard to live up to and Maggie Niall
is about to cover herself with glory or its
suburban equivalent by marrying a Gentle-
man Help. By the way, she made her last
public appearance at this show as maid of
honor, carrying gloves and bouquet for
bride “Dudie,” who resembled a lovely
dressing-table in white lace over pink.
Edmund Barton’s daughter Stephanie was
another of her seconds, and Nan O’Hara a
third. Dr. Yerge, from Sydney, supported bride-
groom Niall, and R. G. Casey made some
complimentary remarks in good style.
Fairbairns, McKinnons, O’Haras and Millers
were in at the finish, where Government
House ;«vas unofficially represented by the
Barttelots and others. Mrs. Griffiths, ele-
gant but unoriginal, .looked like a fashion
plate, and the bridesmaids hadn’t a hair out
of place. The newly-wedded pair escaped
the usual confetti shower by getting out the
back way and making at top speed for Port-
sea, where Dr. O’Hara’s cottage was in
readiness for the honeymoon.
Simon Fraser, jun., duly married “Billy”
(Phyllis) Clegg on February 17, at Scots’
Church, in spite of the wild and dusty north
wind that was blowing. The ceremony it-
self was quiet and solemn and the tall kirk
was dim and cool, but the subsequent pro-
ceedings at Menzies’ made that usually
sedate tavern sit up and stare. The noise
and gaiety the place couldn’t contain fell
out the windows or streamed like a banner
from the high chimneys. High Conditioner
George Reid was talking, and everything
he said was greeted with screams and
cheers. His fair-haired wife meanwhile
looked pensive in a pale green dress. Mrs.
Simon Fraser, sen., was magnificence itself
in purple satin, and Mrs. Clegg, _ the other
mamma, won her burst of publicity with
gold tissue and grey velvet. Mrs. Henry
Cornish, who had a cousinly interest in the
proceedings, looked dreamily pretty in a
copper-colored dress and a black feathered
hat. She and hubby Henry presented the
bride with a beautifully-upholstered Cana-
dian canoe, which hung lightly above
the less massive presents. Papa-in-law
Fraser gave the bride a motor —but that
could not be dragged inside. The bride, who
looked more lovely than the usual lovely
bride, blazed and twinkled with diamonds,
the gift of the same generous relative. Two
pretty sisters, a Frank Madden daughter
and the decorative Bqtty O’Hara were in
the bridesmaid procession, which also in-
cluded two McVeans and two Mcßeans.
The Staughton widow has returned to
town and her 36 charities. For the past few
weeks she has been at her country place at
Gisborne, directing the bushlire fighters who
were prepared to do battle at the outer
fences of her cow-farm. Her studio con-
tains champion Schleswick-Holsteins, which
are only matched by the animals belonging
to neighbor Oswald Syme. The Staughtons
and the Symes are hereditary rivals in
“black” cattle. The late Mr. Staughton
started the competition years ago, when he
bought a Maoriland herd and had it shipped
to Australia. David Syme then began liis
“black” cattle library, and the rival “black”
breeders only stood shoulder to shoulder
when they faced the bellowing herds of “red”
cattle fanciers. (This should really go in
the cow column, but I haven’t time to un-
couple the information and send it along.)
The Staughton widow’s place is one of the
best timbered in the land, and she was just as
keen on preserving the trees as on saving the
cattle. She is a great barracker for affores-
tation, and has practised tree planting as a
hobby all her life. She regards the latest-
appointed Governor (I forget, for the mo-
ment which young man it is) with great
satisfaction, because he is said to be an en-
thusiast on the subject. But then, they say
so many nice things of a newly-arrived Excel-
lency.
Chamberlain Nevill, who attends to such
little jobs, carefully saw the Grey Earl and
his Countess off the premises, on Friday,
while the Denman dame was getting ready
for her party. The Greys were carefully
shoved up the gangway of the Loongana,
bound for the island. Maoriland will be the
next stepping-stone in their progress round
the earth.
George Russell, a keen racing man and
boss of Langawilli station, is lying seriously
ill, and nurses watch his pillow day and
night. His doctor’s command, “No admit-
tance,” is carefully repeated by the nurse on
duty to all friends who come round to in-
quire. The sick man’s devoted wife was
Miss Miller —the only daughter of the well-
known clan.
Allow me, dear Yarrie, to correct a slip
of last week. It wasn’t the married Mr.
Black who had that motor smash. You see
it was a fatal smash, so obviously it could
not have been the recent bridegroom. It
really happened to his unfortunate brother
—the one who wasn’t drowned in the Wara-
tah.
Kirby, the owner of gee-gee Parisian,
found his Melbourne Cup win of two years
ago a hollow joy. (Not that the victory it-
self is to blame; I only mean that he has
been unable to gloat over it.) Ever since
his horse’s triumph he has been a sick
man, and he is now a long way from perfect
health. Handsome Mrs. Kirby dashed to
town the other day, and put up at Menzies’
while she was choosing a dress or two. Then
she flew back at top motor speed to the
Hamilton home and the invalid husband.
Tall Stuart Smith took the boat back to
England last week after a brief business-cwm-
pleasure trip to his once-adopted country.
He came here as a whisky trader 17 years
ago, and hammered his local political beliefs
out of Bulletin material. Then in the
fulness of time he married and became a
director of the mighty co. he had worked for,
and fixed his abode at Maidenhead (Eng.),
a charming little town on the Thames. Stuart
Smith has retained his Bulletin convic-
tions, despite his money and his steam launch
and Hinglish associations. In the Cold
Country he is a more or less shocking repre-
sentative of advanced democracy, and to his
friends hereabouts he appears just a trifle
younger than of yore.
Mamma Gillespie and her tribe of dashing
daughters (I forget for the moment what
they dash, but perhaps it is household
crockery) have gone travelling for a year
with a son as courier or advance agent to
run in front and tell hotelkeepers and rail-
way guards, “Ma’s just coming up the street
with the girls!” Young Gillespie, who is a
frightful loss to the Block and private dances
when he isn’t present, will see the women-
folk well on the way, before making off to
America with another rich young man who
has no work on hand. It is their fell inten-
tion to “do” America until the Eagle on the
dollar has to hold his bursting brow with
one claw.
Ivy Cooper, the tall charmer who, with her
sister, ran a manicure emporium here for a
time, and later was on the stage in the first
production of “The Arcadians,” is now in
London, and proposes to show the residents
of that village how “Australian native .
dances” should be danced, in the hope, ap-
parently, of supplying a new craze to take
the place of the tango. Ivy is a cousin of
Marie Hall (not the violinist, but the Mel-
bourne girl who has given up counting her
money because it leaves her so fagged out
afterwards) and granddaughter of the Ben-
digo millionaire, J. B. Watson.
I have noticed recently in biographical
notices frequent references to falling
mantles. Grasped in my left hand as I
write is a paragraph containing the infor-
mation that the mantle of some bank man-
ager is likely to fall on his second-in-com-
mand. Then, last week, there was some
reference to a deceased caterer’s mantle fall-
ing on the shoulders of his head waiter _or
something of the kind. It is a flue, imposing
phrase, but it doesn’t fit modern dress con-
ditions. Why not make it overcoat?
Three little blessings at one visit of the
stork are rare immigrants to Australia ; on
the average, the stork brings the Common-
wealth so much luggage only a baker’s dozen
of times a year. Yet one unpretentious little
weatherboard tenement in Gordon-street,
Footscray, has had two such visits quite
lately. And the bird didn’t call on the same
tenants either. The first mother evidently
thought there was bad luck about the house
and left it. Then an immigrant couple
arrived —and found the bad luck, or whatever
it may be, waiting for them. Gordon-street
landlords haven’t threatened to raise the
rents yet; but there is no telling—it’s an ill
wind that some landlords wouldn’t try to pin
a rise to.
Nellie Vietch, whose job is physical cul-
ture, has been away on one of her recuper-
ating jaunts. This time it was India, and
she “did” it very thoroughly in company with
General Dobbie and his wife. The traveller
is due back in about a week’s time.
From “Rosna,” in Britain: —
Mary Grant Bruce, the Gippsland scribe, now visit-
ing on this side, improved the shining hours spent in
a recent tour of the emerald isle of her fathers by
getting engaged. Her collaborator is a distant rela-
tive, Major George Evans Bruce, whose address is a
castle in County Cork. But you may get in a stock
of confetti and old shoes, for the wedding is to occur
in Australia during the year. The bride-elect refuses
to live in any country but her own ; and as she is
too nice a girl to miss, the Major let her command
the regiment and fix the camping-place. Already
arrangements are being made for the removal of the
family banshee to his new quarters, and that ancient
and bog-trotting retainer is trying to learn something
about sheep and gumtrees that he may fit his new
surroundings.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The past and present Committee-women of the
Queen Adelaide Club handed Lady Bosanquet and
her twins a final cup of tea on Wednesday, while the
thermometer recorded 111.9 deg. The excessive
warmth of the welcome was mitigated to a certain
extent by ice-blocks, which were strewn wherever
something could be put for them to drip into. The
flowers were remarkable considering we have had a
fortnight of concentrated Hades. There were huge
rose-colored carnations, from the Harry Duttons’
garden at Victor Harbor, in the dining-room; and
mauve and pink asters or blue and pink agapanthus
in the other rooms. By the way, the new rooms at
the Club are to be opened in about a fortnight.
His departing Ex. was farewelled by Parliament, the
Mayor and citizens of Adelaide and Unley, and by
pretty well every society and association in the place.
Herds of officials relentlessly pursued him aboard the
Qtway on Friday, and dragged his hand up and down,
in a grief-smitten manner. They then made hastily
for Glenelg and the Australia, where the Admiral
and various lesser persons had announced themselves
as “at home.” As the Otway passed, they cheered
wildly, partly because of the loved ones on board,
partly owing to the exhilarating nature of the re-
freshments they had absorbed. There is nothing like
free refreshments to stimulate public manifestations
of enthusiasm, sorrow, etc.
The Lindon-Fulton wedding occurred at Mount
Lofty on Wednesday, and here, as on the lower levels,
the heat was fierce. The bride wore white ninon
and crSpe de chine. Her three bridesmaids—Miss Jean
Fulton, Miss Hilda. Fisher and Miss Jean Wigg—
apricot crepe de chine with tunics of blue ninon.
The blushing ’groom was ably saved from peril on
land, sea, motor-car, etc., etc., by the united efforts
of Mr. Guy Fisher, Dr. Harry Nott and Mr. MacPher-
son. At St. Margaret’s, Miss Hannah Fulton received
her guests in green crepe de chine. (You will notice
that there was a good deal of this substance about—
the weather being unsuited to woollens, flannels or
even flannelettes.) Mrs. David Fulton, the Downer
dame, the 11. H. Wiggs, various members of the
Henderson clan, Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Cave, Mrs.
Walter Hawker, and the F. J. Fishers were there, and
altogether the ceremony was a vast success.
The Women’s Arts and Crafts Society has taken
rooms in the Widows’ Fund Building in Grenfell-
street. The dep6t will be officially opened in April.
Mr. Clewin Harcourt invited people to a private
view of his pictures on Monday, and a good many
people turned up. The passion that is evinced by
our old nobility and others for a free show is quite
remarkable. Which reflection recalls the fact that
an Eminent Citizen was once advertised to give a
highly improving lecture at a fee of 6d. per seat.
Precisely 20 people came. A week later he gave it
free, and they arrived in thousands and tens of
thousands, more or less, so that many had to be
driven, protesting, from the doors, and the police
had to intervene, and a riot was narrowly averted,
and the authorities were impelled to warn the Emi-
nent One that if he ever gave another lecture a
charge of not less than 2d. would have to be im-
posed.
The somewhat ruined old Theatre Royal is being
done up, and dress-circle seats, boxes and stalls
are being added. Also there will be a sliding roof,
and a new entrance, which will not lead directly past
the adjacent bar door, where the ambient drunk is
likely to be seen tottering wildly during theatre
hours.
Mention of this playhouse reminds me that a kiss-
ing competition is billed for the Tivoli to-night, and
later we are. to have Tango Teas and Corset Parades.
In brief, an effort is to be made to make sainted old
Adelaide sit up.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


,-«=aar
Un'W
%
"r
f .
V
01
Kr
'
sp*
.
¥
c'
3
Hi
1
* ft-.
■
/fILW,
riPST
FOP
/ariD


S 2
Bon Ami
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with .
Bon Amu!
H*r*M
8
Bon Ami his ■ velvety fineness in#
does its work without scratching.
Bon Ami
* For
Painted
Wood
WorK
Bon Ami
wilt not hurt
the paint-
removes the
dirt only.
Q
m
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
ĥ
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
1
CC
*
SUNSHINE
MO ‘° r Melhourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide
,}
Sole
Agents.
ABOIGIN-
ALITIES
OUTWARD BOUND.
T HE A VIATOR: “Whoa! you cow!"
“Koreki”: There are some bush lawyers
among the Papuan natives, and one old buck, re-
cently charged with pourri-pourri, nearly threw the
court out of action. “Look here,” 6aid the A.R.M.,
“there is no such thing as pourri-pourri. Under-
stand? No debil debil sorcery.” “Well,” grinned
accused, “why you bring me here and plenty charge
me with him?” It seemed reasonable, but the
A.R.M. managed to gasp out a sentence of three
months labor on the roads. After all, it might be
well to alter the sorcery charge to “false pretences.”
“Ela”: This is a story of the ways of
Eve and Adam in Papua and of the native’s casual-
ness. In October, 1913, the manager of the Dubuna
copper mine, which is some few miles east of Port
Moresby, sent a couple of native carriers off with a
bag of mail. After leaving the mine the bag and
the bearers vanished as suddenly as autumn bears
in Vallambrosa. However, the average brown man
is unreliable, so both employer and Government
concluded that the “boys” had got “tired” on the
road and lit out .to take the “rest cure” amongst
the girls, betelnuts, fleas and coco palms in their
native village. The usual inquiry was made to see
if the wanderers had reached home safely; but
nothing was known of the boys, and consequently
the police began to think that perhaps another
“removal” had happened. The official Sherlock
Holmes was turned on to unravel the coil of mystery,
but could find nothing to help him until a prosaic
crowbar put justice on the track. Strolling into a
village a few miles inland from the mine, the officer
noticed the bar lying on the ground; and as these
wands are not usually treasured by the natives, he
inquired for the fortunate owner. He was informed
that the bar was a sacred one, and that it must not
be touched. Such little things often have a good
deal of meaning to the man who is used to native
customs; so he nosed around and found out that
the boys had been killed on the road, and their
bodies, with the mail bag, buried in a creek near
by. Three gentlemen of the village soon had the
handcuffs on, and the crime was in due course
explained. It was simply that the ladies had
taunted the trio with the fact that they could not
wear the hornbill head-dress, which is the badge of
successful man-slayers. Smarting under the gibe,
they qualified for this most desirable decoration by
mopping up the unlucky carriers, and his Majesty’s
mail went broke.
* * * *
Sir Darcy” ; The 35th anniversary of the
star exploit of the Kelly Gang—the holding-up of
Jerilderie—happened on a recent Sunday; but Jeril-
derie didn’t celebrate the occasion to any noticeable
extent. The only holiday Jerilderie ever had over
it was the enforced one the business people took when
Ned and eo. were in the town, temporarily imprison-
ing all and sundry callers at Charlie Cox’s Royal
Mail in the big lounge-room of the pub
the while they robbed the bank. Ned also
gave the school kids a whole holiday on the Monday,
compelling the schoolmaster (Edwards) to write out
a proclamation to the effect that the holiday was
granted “in honor of the visit of the Kelly Gang to
Jerilderie.” There’s one veteran official of the
Bank of N.S.W. (the local branch of which was
robbed) thoroughly competent to correct all the
inaccuracies which have got into print anent the
hold-up. He’s authority for the following: (1) The
gang were only in Jerilderie from about midnight
on the Saturday until the Monday afternoon, and not
four clear days, as Haydon’s “The Trooper Police
of Australia” alleges; (2) they did not burn the
bank’s books; (3) when bank-manager Tarleton made
post-haste to his Melbourne headquarters, he inter-
viewed the late Inspector Walsh, and not the general
manager, and was only reprimanded for coming away
from his branch, and certainly was not accused of
cowardice, (4) accountant Living didn’t accompany
Mr. Tarleton to Melbourne. Mr. Tarleton voluntarily
resigned from the N.S.W., joined the Bank of New
Zealand, and is to-day inspector of the Commercial
Hank of Tasmania. Mr. Living is now managing
the Wangaratta branch of the Bank of N.S.W.
“Leo Lear” : I don’t wish to throw con-
tumely or such like at Pure Food or Health Acts,
but the man from wayback seems to get on without
them all right ; and is anyone in possession of
statistics to show the death-rate on the Rim greater
than that of Newtown, Carlton or any other down-
town section? Consider the water the
inlander drinks. I’ve seen properly
thirsty horses refuse to partake of stuff
their riders were compelled to drink.
Green waterholes, standing out in a
broiling sun, with putrid animals half
submerged, come in time to be accepted
with a fair share of indifference. As
for thick, clav-colored liquid, it is
usually the best and healthiest found
in the bush. The clean looking tank
water in “copi” soil is shied off by
the knowing ones, who are aware that
even iron “innards” are affected by
it. Then in the matter of bread, the
town resident growls like a blow-hole
at low tide when a holiday or two
causes the supply of baked dough to
stale. Yet there is no Health Act to
regulate Bill’s six-days-old, sodden
damper. Moreover, when wet weather
comes, dampers are sometimes impos-
sible ; and William has to get outside
“doughboys” boiled in the billy. Ac-
cording to digestion tables these take
39 hours 57 minutes to attain the
first stage of assimilation; total diges-
tibility is never reached. Again, two
wandering house flies on a leg
of beef would be sufficient to condemn the dainty in
a Potts Point residencewhile in the Murray regions
the drowned animals can’t be strained off the soup,
or there would be none left. It’s all rather con-
fusing.
* * * *
‘ G-H.” : Is this a record or a mere inci-
dent? On January 27 I was at Gembrook on the
narrow-gauge railway via Fern Tree Gully (Vic.)
with a party, and we came across an enormous
length of bark blown off a tree during a recent
storm. We had no foot-rule, but we all measured it
by yard steps, and, without a break from the widest
part at the butt until it tapered where it broke off
the top, it measured 159 ft. Now, let the heathen
rage.
THE BURGLAR SCARE AGAIN.
CHOLLY: “Me man left me yesterday .”
HENRY L EGPULL: “ Great Scott! You must feel awfully nervous without a man in the house."
A'little while ago one Esini, a brown per-
son who pursued the lawful occupation of guano-
digging on Malden Island, shoved a, knife into a
fellow digger, who thereupon went to Heaven, leav-
ing all the guano behind him. Esini was brought to
Maoriland for trial, but the interpreters could make
nothing of him. Either he spoke in parables in a
strange language or he was resolved not to commit
himself. Sometimes he shook his head; sometimes
he nodded his head; sometimes he waved his hands ;
more times he scratched his back; most times he
simply looked at nothing. The Maoriland authorities
didn’t like to hang this silent person, so he was
sent to his home at Niue to be tried in his own
language by the official on the spot. A Maoriland
Commissioner did the trial, and found the brown
person about as unintelligible in his own island as
he had been elsewhere. A warship brought the wit-
nesses from the guano-digging isle, and they weren’t
too intelligible either. Finally, when £6OOO had
been spent, the matter was compromised by a sen-
tence of three months. And this gort of thing is
called cheap labor!
* * * *
“Masarcus”: “Prospector” (B. 5/2/’l4)
tells of a torch-carrying centipede which inter-
viewed him one night at Youanmi (W.A.). He must
have been camping near the chaps who made my stay
in those parts such a pleasant one. My encounter,
too, happened at night-time, and, like “Prospector,”
I was sleeping under the stars. I was awakened
about two o’clock by a yellow streak of flame that
tore madly over my left cheek. I could smell singed
blanket, and guessed the apparition had been playing
round for some minutes. With commendable prompti-
tude I thanked my stars that I had never cultivated
the whisker habit, and leaped to my feet. They were
the only feet I could leap to. The streak was now
careering around my bedding. It did about five laps
in as many seconds, and then, quicker than a
flash, made for my bare extremities. I was a new
chum and hadn’t fallen into the habit of going to
bed in my boots. I bolted for the next camp. I
dived into my neighbor’s tent with the pursuing party
but a neck in arrears, and I didn’t have time to let
the flap fall before I was caught. I felt a warmish
sort of glow gallop up my right leg, and in a frenzy
I squealed for help. Immediately the atmosphere
outside was diffused with jeers. I subsided on the
floor, and swore that, though I didn’t know what I’d
done, I wouldn’t do it again. A mild hurricane
eventuated at the moment, and a second later I
found myself scraping the earth outside. As I lapsed
into unconsciousness a small object flew from the
tent and hit my neck with a thud. When I woke at
daylight I found a dead gohanna beside me. Stuck
to its back was a piece of candle, around which
was a kerosene-soaked rag. This bore signs of
having been alight. I was sorry for the unfortunate
reptile, butchered to make a miners’ practical joke.
But I was more sorry I never discovered the jokers.
I wanted to disembowel them, and thus make a
Roman holiday.
“Bygum”: I notice “Gil Gunnia” recently
mentioned that the Queensland natives only used
“yakooro” and “jinbul” as poison for fishing pur-
poses, but Abo-readers should know that many of
our common acacias and eucalypts are equally effica-
cious and are still used by the natives of N. S.
Wales. Some of these vegetables merely stupefy the
game, owing to the astringency of their barks, and
consequently are much better than poisons, which
taint the flesh. The most common fish poisons used
are the “goobang” or native willow, the green towel-
CONCENTRATION.
HALPHONSE : “I notice you alius shuts yer
eyes w'en yer drinkin’ beer.”
’ PRACE : “Yes, I ’ales to have me attention
took off wot I'm doin’.”
gourd (“bun-bun”), “hickory” and “koie-yan.” Of
these the best is “koie-yan,” a Queensland vine, from
which the outer bark is scraped, while the inside
is macerated and thrown into the water. It does
not affect the taste of the fish, and if these are
cleaned as soon as caught they will keep fresh for
nearly a week. This is due to the large amount of
saponin which this vine contains. It acts as a
natural preservative.
(Continued on page 24 .)
PRAYERS FOR RAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kiama, Tuesday.—At a united service in the Odd-
fellows’ Hall, prayers were offered this morning for
rain. Rev. T. Yuille, Rev. 11. N. Archdall Pearce,
and Rev. G. A. Reeves conducted the service. The
weather conditions have made the outlook for far-
mers serious, particularly the winter prospects. The
creeks are dry for the first time for years, and the
springs supplying the town water supply are falling
off quickly. Services were also held at Jamberoo and
Gerringong at the same hour.— Nows item.
Lord, we are gathered here,
Despite the heat and dust,
To supplicate Thine ear
To hear —so Lord, You must!
Behold us kneeling now,
Filled full with grief and pain,
With sweat upon our brow
Imploring Thee for rain.
We recognise, 0 Lord,
That from Thy high, cool Heaven
To us Thou didst afford
Good seasons six or seven;
Perhaps ’twas eight or nine;
But let the number pass—
Remember, Lord, we pine
For water and for grass.
The rains of those old years
We know we should have stored,
But heed our moans and tears
And send us more rain, Lord 1
The crops, and other things
We garnered in, are gone;
The immemorial springs ;
Lie shrunk amid the stone;
The Nine Fat years are fled —
, The Nine Good Times are not—
; The grass is brown and 1 dead;
The land is sick and hot;
We knew it would be so,
Well warned by years long past,
But then —well, Lord, You know
We reckoned things would last!
Wo feel we should have saved,
Prepared and looked ahead,
And not the Future braved
Till all our water fled!
Still, Thou art merciful —-
Thou never feelest tired —
O Lord exert a pull,
And send us what’s desired !
Set back Thy Universe —
Change everything again,
Before the Draught gets worse —
Oh, send us heaps of rain!
Then we will rise and praise
Thy name, and Thee adore
For many nights and days—
And then forget some more!
N.S.W.
ALPHONSE PARBLEU.


MEN’S READY CLOTHES
HIGH-GRADE
American Tailor-made Suits
£6 6s.
i
Perfect fitting clothes that become
you, no matter where you are
going—to business or pleasure.
A huge selection to choose
from ready to wear.
THEY SAVE YOUR TIME
j
and are
SURE TO PLEASE YOU.
Agents for —
Stein-Bloch Smart Clothes.
Hart, Schaffner & Marx
High-grade Tailored Suits.
BUCKLEY & NUNN
LIMITED,
Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
NELSON’S
(Concentrated)
Fountain Syrups
PIN
/^lsoivas
Do you know what big money is being made
by those who serve NELSON’S CONCEN-
TRATED SYRUPS? If you did, you would
not hesitate to see to it that you served the
same. Don’t be content with what you are
doing when you can multiply your business!
Don’t continue to lose money! Don’t keep
your shelves stocked with gallons of old-
style prepared syrup, when a few pints of
Nelson’s Concentrated Syrup make ibe
same amount but of infinitely superior
quality! And at half the cost.
The SUPERIOR QUALITY is due to the
fact that Nelson’s Syrup is obtained from
choice, rich, ripe fruits —the juices extracted
are then highly concentrated, retaining that
luscious, pleasing, full flavor which has be-
come so much sought after.
We all have a weakness where the taste is concerned, and the syrup-drinking public,
who become connoisseurs of syrups, distinguish at once between the real
fruitiness of Nelson’s and any other. This is the reason why those who serve
Nelson’s Concentrated Syrups lead right away—and don’t forget it incidentally
they are leaving you behind, and the longer you delay the keener will the position
become.
If you are wise and ambitious see to it that you serve the drinks which please the
customer, and whet the appetite for more.
OUR VARIETY.
Orange, Pineapple, Strawberry, Cherry, Raspberry, Passion
Fruit, Kola, American Cream Soda, Lemon, Lime Juice, Sarsa-
parilla, Vanilla.
Packed in cases of 1 dozen quart jars all one kind, or assorted
as required. Per dozen jars, 33/- dozen; single jar, 3/- each.
Be prepared for the fresh fruit season with a stock of Malo-Cream. It adds wonderfully.
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE. STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Agent—A. B. HADDEN, 35 Barrack Street, Perth.
SIEMENS
VACUUM CLEANERS
Electric or Belt Drive. Portable or Fixed Types.
Ito B.H.P. All Voltages for either Continuous or Alternating Current.
SIEMENS CLEANERS are
made In four sizes for
Fixed Installations,
and in three sizes
for Portable Use.
'—t
The 5 H.P. and 7i, 9
and 9i H.P. Cleaners
are Ideal Machines for
Large Offices, Public
Build i n gs, Theatres,
Hospitals and Factories
of all kinds.
t Fixed Plan, is Strongly to those who have decided to enjoy the conditions and true econony which .tejiven by VACUUM Ctarifr
The SIEMENS SUCTION CLEANER differs from ever y other 11
used which is uniquely suitable for this in » » or • rendered innocuous by thorough admixture with water. The
discharged directly into the sys em kjnd o{ surface , and is not limited to removing fine dust
operation of cleaning can be carried out p Quantities of water, pieces of paper and string with equal
from floor wrings.
FOR
FURTHER PARTICULARS AND PRICES WRITE TO
SYDNEY
ħ
MELBOURNE


TV 1
I ||
raEBHa
Sporting
Ammunition.
Used by all Sportsmen requiring
the best.
KYNOCtt MADE
“BONAX''
KYNOCH LOADF.D
All Component Parts are manu-
factured and put together in our
own factory.
\2
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident S Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.*
h
AUSTRALIANS!!
THE
INSURE
IN
1.0. A.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
ĥ
45'
AMATEURS
Blitting an t Sneliinq oum tmpas&Ut
fwiPLt' CLoaino
emascuiator.
Mis
'SAFETY'
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding'.
Postage Free 45/-
My ’ Hints on Castrating ”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emaseulators from
30/- to 50/
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It’s FREE
“Silas Snell”: I was a small boy at the
time, but an energetic contributor to the Poet’s
Corner of the Dingbat Denunciator, a Bungaree paper
that came out when (lie editor was sober. One day
I was interviewing him re the introduction of a
startling innovation in the management of such
journals—nothing less than the paying for “poetry.”
At this the office cat had a fit, and the editor was
just going off, when Camper entered. “It’s erbout
er dorg,” he said, “to settle er bet. Afterwards
we ll ’ave er drink.” The editor was all ears, ex-
cepting only the portion of him that was mouth.
“See, it’s like this,” said Camper. “I ’ad er dorg.
The bes’ blank dorg in Orstralia he was, Mister. I
wouldn’t a taken five bob for him. He was ’arf
cattle dorg, ’arf retriever, with a dash iv the water
spaniel. Moll’s strong suit was hide-’n’-seek. Moll
was the name o’ me dorg. You couldn't ’ide nothink
he wouldn’t find, ’n’ I’ve won a bit, I can tell yell,
backin’ ’im. Three days ago a bloke put up rt
Murphy’s, a bloke travellin' fer ’arvesters, wot let on
t’ know a bit erbout dorgs. I got to him, o’ course,
seem’ maybe there was a quid ’angin’ to it. Well,
it ended in him coinin’ at me. He had five quid agin
seven o’ mine, sayin’ Moll wouldn’t go back over a
mile, recover his watch where we ’id it, ’n’ deliver
the same ez specified. I was on a good thing. It was
backin’ a cert. Coz why? Moll ’ad done th’ same
thing scores o’ times. We ’id the watch, an’ sent
Moll back. After about ten minutes up comes me
dorg, fair smilin’. Mo ’and was open fer the money.
Strike me dead, the rotten dorg hadn’t the watch !
He looked ez if he had succeeded glorious—but no
watch. We went back ’n’ searched, but the watch
was gorn. Blime, Moll had failed, ’n’ Murphy slid
my lovely seven quid to the stranger.” “Quite right,”
said the editor as an authority. “lie could do no
less!” “Wait,” said Camper. “Nex’ day me dorg died.
I was mighty curious about that, coz Moll was
nacher’ly iv a healthy disposition. I thinks it over,
’n’ then ’olds a pos’ morter hinquest on me own.
Swelp me Jimmy Gee if I don’t find the missin’
goods stuck tight in his gizzard ! The dorg had
swalleicd the watch. “Now, under them circs., gov’nor,
who won the bet?” “Really it is a difficult ques-
tion,” said the editor ponderously, “but I should be
inclined to say you had. The dog certainly brought
back the watch. Does the other fellow refuse to
return the money?” “He's gorn; but he’d refuse
all right. I’m goin’ seekin’ ’im one o’ them days.
You see, the cook et Murphy’s tells me he rubbed
near ’arfer pound o’ butter round his ole brass ticker
afore he wrapped it in the paper we buried it in.
The pore dorg couldn’t help swallerin’ the watch!”
“Tiaki” : Let me have a round or two with
this “Ding Bat” (B. 22/l/’l4). He claims to “know
the Maoris as well as most pakehas.” I claim to
know them better. Twenty-five years ago I was fol-
lowing an occupation which necessitated my living
with Henare in a communal way. In the Bay of
Islands I have dwelt in his house for six weeks at a
time, and on other occasions have not seen a white
man for months on end. Also I am the holder of a
first-grade interpreter’s license, and I have read most
of the works on “Ding Bat’s” friends that are worth
reading. “D. 8.” says there is nothing to be excited
about in a white girl being tattooed. Perhaps not;
still it is a little startling when you see a white
woman tattooed on the lips and chin. “Ding Bat”
further alleges that he has only known two cases of
white~ girls living with Maoris. There are three in
the town I write from, and I know of at least five
in the district I have just left. All the half-caste
children of that district, with the exception of three,
have been supplied by white ladies. In one township
a white Meri may be seen with her piebald offspring
carried, Maori fashion, on the back of its white
mother. I translated an affiliation summons a little
while back ; the aggrieved one —a strapping white
girl—had supplied her lover with a brace of half-
castes. “Ding Bat” probably doesn’t know these
things. In that case he had better leave the writing
about them to those who do know.
“Machete”: I would admire to know
whence “X.P.D.” got his knowledge of the Mamba
River natives. In his par (B. 29/l/’l4) he speaks
of their killing pigs by drowning, of the natives’
large noses, and their habit of circumcision. Now I spent
some years among the Mamba natives, and never heard
of these customs, though my job brought me in con-
stant and close contact with the Binandele people.
Pigs were always killed with the co-operation of a
long-handled tomahawk, and often put on to roast
before they were dead. The people are not big-nosed,
but remarkably even featured, and circumcision as a
rite is unknown. Maybe “X.P.D.” was thinking of
the Kiwais of the West, who combine the Hebraic
profile with the custom referred to. They, however,
hail from the very opposite extremity of the Papuan
coast.
SAXPENCE
SAVED.
THE McTAGGART:
“Oh, ay, yon’s a
fine sairmon ye've
just preached on
thrift, Meenisler.
I've been ’greatly
benefited by it.”
THE MEENISTER:
“I'm pleased to
hear you are the
better for it, Mr.
Me I aggart.”
THE MAT.: “Oh,
ay! I was on
the varra point
o' pitten saxpence i' the plate."
“Saint” (who specialises in corpses) :
The undertaker walked gently into the darkened
room where the sodden relatives dangled mournful
hats or sniffed unreservedly into inadequate handker-
chiefs, according to sex. His face showed a chast-
ened sorrow; his frock coat and black cotton gloves
were the essence of pious respectability; his tones
breathed respectful sympathy. “Would any sorrow-
ing friend care to take a farewell look at the dear
departed before we perform the last sad duty?” he
inquired. Nobody moved; and he tiptoed back to
where his assistants waited beside the open coffin.
“Screw the old bloke down, boys!” he remarked
cheerfully, and he who had occasionally been screwed
in life was screwed in death.
SAVING HIS
FACE.
S HE (huffily):
“ Considering
the awful show
you made of
yourself over
being charged so
much for a few
measly oysters
and some bad
wine, I don't
see what there
is to grin at
NOW.”
HE (chuckling): “ But, don'tcher see, dearie,
I tipped th' writer vid a bad schillin! ”
“The Maorilander”: “Gip” (B. 8/l/’l4)
asks if foxes eat snakes. About a fortnight ago I
killed 12ft. of carpet snake in two lengths, and
hung them on a dead tree about 20yds. from the hut.
In the morning both worms had gone, and the sand
underneath the tree was much fox-padded. I found the
heads 50 yards away. I don’t think the tail parts
ate themselves. On dinner-camp a couple of days
ago, I watched an old dog-fox digging at a small
anthill. I thought it a queer place for a rabbit
nest. Presently he made a dart and a grab, and
whipped out a ringed snake about 18in. long and
as thin as your little finger. A couple of sharp
shakes and he trotted off with it, dead as Julius
Caesar’s grandmother. Putting the circumstances
together, I’m almost sure the foxes ate my two
Axminster reptiles.
The North Queensland Register has
been colliding with the weariness engendered by the
climate, and the loneliness of the bush, and the
desert, and the drought, and the dried-up waterhole,
and the scentless flowers, and the songless birds,
and the bogged cow, and the Australian
accent, and the alligator, and the prickly-
pear, and the boundless rabbit, and other
national calamities. This time the helplessness and
melancholy developed in a 17-year old girl far out
up North (everybody knows what that hole’s like).
To save her young brother’s life she carried him
slowly and painfully on horseback to the nearest
doctor. She was nearly a fortnight on the journey,
camping each night at sundown, preparing food,
hobbling the horses and comforting the sick child
in that tent in the midst of Nowhere. But this
tawdry daughter of the Great Spaces brought her
patient in and the doctor did the rest. Probably it
was Foster Fraser who feared that the second or
third generation up in the North would show signs
of degeneracy compared with its English equivalent.
If not him it was somebody equally experienced in
the matter or equally stumbled in his mind.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : Bonde was the biggest Irish-
man in Sandyblight. He stood nearly ,6ft. 4in., and
was as wide as a church and as straight as a wall,
and his voice in ordinary conversation suggested the
roaring of lions. Bonde could not whisper without
making his nearest neighbor, a quarter of a mile
off, acquainted with the facts. Tom Bonde was a
boss cocky, a widower with one son, James H£nry
Arthur Oswald Johnston Bonde. Jimmy was 21, and
promised to be a replica of the old man, excepting
for his lamentable deficiency in the piratical attri-
butes. Old Bonde looked as if he should have been
located under the skull and crossbones on the poop
of a storm-tossed ship, wearing a red cap and a
big-buckled belt stuck full of guns, bellowing orders
to a crew of unmitigated villains; but it struck
you that James Henry Arthur Oswald Johnston Bonde
would have appeared to the best advantage carrying
tanks of bath buns at a Methody picnic. James
was Tom's one great care. The anxiety rich parents
of an only daughter feel when fortune-hunters haunt
the drawing-room old Tom felt when a pretty young
girl—or any girl, for the matter of that—drifted
within grappling distance of his boy Jim. There
were no subterfuges in Tom’s line of action ; he bore
down on the suspected female, and shooed her off.
“Git away, will yeh, an’ let th’ b’v be,” thundered
Tom Bonde, and if the lady showed any reluctance
to leave, Tom took her up bodily and dumped her
over the fence. “I won’t have yez, or th’ like,
beguilin’ me poor b’y, d’ yeh mind?” That “d’ yeh
mind ?” was belched out like the thunder of a great
gun. Three times Tom Bonde had hem fined for such
assaults upon sensitive damsels reasonably supposed
to have designs on lubberly James Henry Arthur,
etc. “They know we have th’ bit iv money,” Tom
told the Court in a voice that set the ancient hills
stirring, “an’ they won’t let th’ poor b’y be. Day
an’ night they’re chasin’ him, they are. An’ is
never a man right in perfectin' his own? Why for
not? Will yeh toll me, why for not?” The stunned
Bench imposed the smallest possible fine, and Bonde
went home, roaring and leadin’ his “poor b’y.”
Janies was now an inch higher than his father, and
could lift something over half a ton of spuds, dead-
weight ; consequently the spectacle was much appre-
ciated by Sandyblight. Then Henrietta Kitchen came
to the Trappers’ Arms. Henrietta was the red-
headed spirit of mischief, and Bonde filled her with
godless joy. She set herself to plague the seven
senses out of him, and she succeeded. She pursued
J. If. A. O. J. Bonde with an affectionate rapture that
drove Tom frantic. Once the distracted parent trod
down Welling’s new swing doors, strode into the
bar, smashed the counter with his fist, and bellowed
at red-headed Henrietta like a tormented hull of
Bashan ; and Miss Kitchen merely laughed back.
“I 11 have Jimmy,” she said, “and you can huff and
you can puff and you can blow my house down. If
you were 10 regiments of Tom Bondes, and all roar-
ing, you couldn't stop me.” Tom reached over
the counter and plucked her up. For a moment it
seemed that lie would throw her bodily through
Welling’s beautiful green and gold window ; hut he
did no more than hear her out of doors, lift the
lid of Welling’s tank, souse her in, and, after put-
ting the lid on again, walk terribly away. Tom paid
£25 damages for that, and Henrietta was more
spirited than ever in pursuit of James. Jim
went to the Sandyblight Cricket Club’s picnic.
Henrietta was there. Tom arrived on the
scene early in the afternoon, storming like high
Heaven. He seized James by the arm. “Come away,
will yeh!” he said. “Why will yeh be runnin’ risks
wid them all round yeh? Come home!” Jim
squared his shoulders, a black shadow came down
from his hair, and “I will not,” he said. The voice
was his father’s, the look was his father’s. Bonde,
■senior, stood aghast for a moment. “Is it you will
not?” he roared, and his great hand swung on
Jimmy’s ear. Jimmy stood back. lie shot a right
fist like a pile-driver, and it crashed on his father’s
jaw, and Tom went down. As he came up again
Jim met him with a bit of a stick, and nearly
cracked his head open. Tom arose, dazed and bleed-
ing, and James finished him with another blow.
“You ould fool,” he said ; “will you not be still,
and me married this 12 months to Mary O’Dowd!”
Tom looked at the crowd. His face lit up. “There’s
a fine man!” he said. “Did yeh see the blow he
hit me? Married are yeh, me b’y, and to a gir-rl?
Well, divil a bit it matters, now ver th’ man t’
manage wan.” Then Tom Bonde went home alone.
PEOPLE IN TALL HOUSES SHOULD
NOT DROP STONES.
“By gum! that there aeroplanin ’ is a dan-
gerous game, Bill. ”
"Yep! Blowed if I know 'ow they finds ’eart
enough ter go tip in the bloomin' things
at all.”
THE HAY-FEVER PATIENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m seeking out a cheap divorce.
My wife is really not too bad —-
The usual female thing, of course,
With only half the charm she had; I
But it is not my chief complaint
That once she colored without paint, j
She’s fatter than she used to be;
She also talks a good deal more,
And doesn’t care a dump for me.
But ’tisn’t this that makes me sore. I
I care not should she talk and weep I
For half the night—l merely sleep. *
Yet I am moving for divorce,
Full confident my simple tale
Will touch the judge with telling force.
Hay fever is my earthly bale,
And my hard wife, in spite of that,
Wears massive corn-flowers in her hat!
VICTORIA.
SILAS.


‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Chunder at Colombo.
A
<0
•pH
0
O 4
o
o
CP
0)
&
Wk
m
a
u
A
0
O
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
In an ox-cart
Travels through
All the humbler
Districts where
Cries for money
j
Rend the air.
“ Here,” says Chunder,
As he drives,
“ COBRA brightens
Many lives.
“Take a sample
Tin awav.
j
“Guard against
A rainy day.


&
u
%
m
m
m
=
jr.t-SKirtneß. '
mm ■ mmm
r
"I HAVE
RECEIVED A
SECOND LIFE"
THE TEffPEST
Hundreds of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results,
which, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the d sposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your pwn.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authority,
writing in The Medical Press and Circular , states, “has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold,” while,
he adds, “the wonders brought about by this prepara-
tion are no less manifold than amazing.”
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable statements.
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Authoress,
Madame Sarah Grand : “Sanatogen has done everything
for me which it is said to be able to do for cases of
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began to take it
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness from extreme
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately. And
now, after taking it steadily three times a day for
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy both work
and play again, and also able to do as much of tioih as I
ever did.”
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeare s
words, to receive
A Second Life
That experience may be duplicated by every reader ,
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences the nervous-
and muscular systems, the digestion and the great blood-
making organs, that it restores the normal balance dis-
organised by illness or disease.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2S. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and, 6s. 6d.
An interesting and instructive booklet, entitled
“The Art of Living,” will be sent, post free, to all
who, write, mentioning this paper, to A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Fortune Hunter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is a mixed melodrama in which
the taniwha plays 'a semi-visible r6le
like that ' of Hamlet’s “popper.”
Perhaps it is so mixed as to be incompre-
hensible. Who knows?
Maata had stolen the soft beauty of a
moonlit summer night. So it was written in
the visitors’ book, which was the chief orna-
ment and almost sole furniture in the whare
of old Hape, the guide. The allegation was
familiar to Hape, for did not Craigmore,
the callow missionary, who, in the innocence
of his heart, hoped to convert the ancient
purveyor of legends, spend many evenings
reading aloud the inscriptions which
adorned the treasured volume. That Craig-
more omitted to read the more truthful effu-
sions was due to kindness as well as his
overwhelming righteousness. The omissions
were Ilape’s loss. They were the humorous
items in a sea of platitudes.
The man who wrote the poetic untruth
was a pompous personage. He came to the
Big Water which the brown people call
Wainui to cure a mind overburdened with
business cares. He saw the sights and lis-
tened to Hape’s embellished tales. If they
entertained him he did not show it. Then
he saw Maata. Afterwards a trooper came
and took him away. He was still cold and
pompous when the gaol door obliterated him.
Maata stood at the door of her whare and
gazed all over the great lake. She was very
unhappy. From the bathing-pool came the
shrieks of her former companions, due,
doubtless, to Mairu’s representation of
Ruku’s love-making. Ruku, being of no
importance, need not be further specified.
Realism was Mairu’s long garment. She is
also of no special importance. Over the
water dots showed where the fishermen
toiled leisurely. Many times had Maata
gone with the fishermen. She would go no
more. For Maata was the principal asset
in Hape’s kainga; the star attraction that
per medium of the Tourist Bureau photo
gallery and the oft-quoted moonlight fabri-
cation, lured the inane tourist. And since
the tourist is a queer bird and liable to go
porangi at the sight of unadorned beauty,
it was necessary for Maata to live sedately,
hiding much that was sightly as well as the
desire to shock the pakehas. Wherefore the
woe of Tane —which is as the woe of ten
thousand Wowsers —sat heavily upon her.
Many men proffering love had come to
Maata sinee fame had shut her out from
the joys of life. Sometimes they had dis-
played their wealth; sometimes they had
simulated the grande passion. Always
Maata had laughed until they were wearied.
Ilad not Father Jules explained the ways
of the pakeha? Therefore Maata laughed
with a sad heart.
There were streaks of manhood in Craig-
more’s past. He had at times coveted his
neighbor’s harmonium or his murky con-
verts. His virility had never aspired to
next door’s better half. At Hape’s Craig-
more unconsciously developed. Maybe the
pagan atmosphere contaminated him. Every-
thing from pitch and toss to murder was
verbal provender at Hape’s social club.
Euphemism was not practised. A spade re-
ceived its catalogue designation.
Maata was staggered when she received
an offer of marriage from the Rev. Craig-
more. Being sick of the lake view and the
awful garments of pakeha femininity she
restrained her risible faculty. A parson’s
wahine would surely be allowed deshabille.
Two flea-hunting kuris witnessed the event.
Doubtless they had their own ideas on the
subject. A ribald world heard of the be-
trothal.
The discovery that his fortune had been
utilised for the ancient pastime of ducks
and drakes jolted Willie Jenkins out of the
rut. (This is the first appearance of W.
Jenkins.) That the delinquent was a right-
thinking personage of cold and pompous
manner only added to the jar. Willie could
have become a clerk, a policeman, or an
inspector of noxious weeds. Temperament
saved him. He played the star role of the
aged bellowdrama to the bitter end. When
his best girl became engaged to the nephew
of the villain who had so disastrously in-
dulged in poultry, Willie computed that the
time was ripe.
In the Waimarino Bush Willie collided
hard against nature. The effect on nature,
save for sundry blazed trails, was imper-
ceptible. The effect on Willie was a jungle
of whiskers and a deplorable loss of polish.
His official designation was second line-
cutter to the Clark survey party. The job
was a trig survey of the roughest bush
country in the promised land of lOU. Simi-
lar country broke the hearts of the first
generation of theodolite wielders and evolved
the breed which to-day toils over the
waste places of the earth. Besides Mr.
Jenkins and “the Boss” the party com-
prised a chainman, “Tarwhite” —Te Awaite
—the first line cutter, and a half-caste cook.
The chainman was hopelessly mad on all
subjects save his work. His story is told
where the survey gangs foregather. It is
not told here, partly because it is unpub-
lishable and partly because I don’t know it.
Willie sweated by day amongst the under-
growth. At night “Tarwhite” talked. The
obligato was furnished by moisture drip-
ping from the tent-fly and fern frond. At
first the Maori’s talk was of Ruku, the
pigeon, or of Makomako, the bell-bird. As
friendship ripened he spoke of his own
people. So Willie heard the story of Ivuini.
Of all the North Island tribes the Ngati-
Atus were the boss scrappers. Unlike the
present day Yankee pug they cared not a
spurious tiki if the enemy was a few pounds
overweight. With the introduction of the
musket the Ngati-Atu larder became tlie
envy of the neighborhood. To guard against
prospective shortage a slave-fattening de-
partment was created, and there were
rumors of a corner in kinaki. The outlook
for the curing industry was rosy. At this
juncture the pakeha intervened. The fat
slaves became stout deacons, and the glory
of the Ngati-Atu was a tradition. The
land remained. Some of it was tribal; some
the heritage of the chief. The last rangitira
was Tena-Kore. He had a baby daughter
and an enemy. The latter was engendered
by a transaction involving one safety razor.
Previously he (the enemy) had been a
French trader of disreputable antecedents.
Owing to the exigency of circumstances and
the need of a nerve tonic the Frenchman
bee-lined for the horizon. Some months
later the baby Kuini disappeared. She may
have wandered into the bush, or been ap-
propriated by the family devil, Kute. The
latter’s reputation was not good. When
appealed to, the oldest and most unreliable
tohunga said the evanishment was the joint
work of Jules, Kute, and one of a new
species of taipo which he had discovered
but had been too busy to name. Tena-Kore
gave in. His tangi splintered all records.
The land remained.
“Tarwhite” added that there was a stand-
ing reward of £lOOO and the whole-hearted
friendship of the Ngati-Atu people for the
individual who restored the missing heiress.
Also that the Frenchman was believed to
have gone to Tahiti.
The taipo that tortures the toiler in the
wet bush had its nippers into Mr. Jenkins.
When Clark fled south to hibernate in the
office, Willie made for the thermal region.
He craved civilisation and a life of ease.
Chance gave him a place in Hape’s un-
hygienic abode, some indifferent hands in the
euchre game, and the admiration of Hiamoe.
I-liamoe was a whisky-pickled reminiscence.
The gorgeousness of her past would have
shocked Lady Cardigan.
Outside the rain fell like a record of avia-
tion achievements. Suddenly Willie became
cognisant that somewhere in the gloom
Hiamoe was murmuring the sequel of a
story:— __ ,
“Te Frenchman was bad. He come here
wit te pickaninny, an’ he teal everyting.
He rob to plurry fool Hape an’ he owe me
te tree an’ six. Goot job he trown.”
Willie Jenkins, with visions of a great
reward, started his cross-examination. The
replies were eminently satisfactory.
Willie went down before the beauty of
Maata. Thereby a plain transaction be-
came a complex affair. At the end of a
week he had made some progress. Also he
had figured out the revenue derivable from
a certain large area of native land. Then
he repaired to- Fape’s sun-bath and spoke of
Craigmore. It was obvious ~.Jto the most
obtuse intellect that the missionary was no
quitter. . 4
Hape nursed a secret grievance. His star
story of the taniwha which inhabited the
water of Wainui was openly discredited by
Craigmore. The missionary insisted that
the man-eater was an acclimatised shark.
He had even written to the papers about it.
When Willie had mentioned his discovery
and the position which Hape would occupy
in his retinue the Maori opined that Craig-
more was due to be convinced. .
There was no moon when the secret in-
vestigation committee of three pushed off in
the dug-out. Hape plied the paddle. '* iHie
Jenkins, plus a large quantity of brandy,
kept look out. He was white of face and
strangely sober. His thoughts were not
pleasant. Craigmore sat huddled up in the
stern. What his thoughts were no one in-
quired. ..
As the canoe slowed down a mile from the
shore a grey shape momentarily rippled the
water ten yards away. Hape halt rose
and tumbled clumsily overboard. Ihen
Craigmore swung the spare paddle again.
* * * *
The pakeha-Maori is not usually a
pleasant object to contemplate. The obscene
creature that was once missionary at Hape s
kainga is no exception. He has lived alone
since Maata went the way of many profes-
sional beauties —accompanied by an ex-
convict of cold and pompous manner. _ But
he has a frequent and unfriendly visitor.
Hiamoe is insatiate in her demands, and
Craigmore has little to give. Willie Jenkins
had discovered the wrong Frenchman.
What might have befallen if he had dis-
covered the right one no man knoweth, the
writer of this tale least of all.
W. R. SINCLAIR.
Child Song of the Rain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little green rain from the dark of the sky,
I am sure you are green, for _vthe grass was
so dr J r > . , , ..
And you painted it over and made it all
spring . ~ . ~
Till the little birds listempg could hear the
blades sing. ; .
And somebody peeping
Saw God Himself weening.
With the world for a handkerchief pressed
to his eye. „
Perhaps He was crying for Brian and me,
For the little birds chirped and were happy
and free, _
And we must stay in with a doll and a book,
And could only tiptoe to the window and
look
Through a sprinkly old pane,
While the little green rain
Was kissing the spiders away from the tree.
Little green rain, go away by-and-bye
And tell the good sun to come out in the
sky, .
And if God feels so sorry for Brian and me,
Just tell Him how cleanly you’ve washed
his old tree,
And perhaps He’ll be kind,
And to-morrow we’ll find
lie’s spread his big handkerchief nicely to
dry.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


There’s the Rub
K
—the part of the tyre
which is subjected to
the greatest friction
and wear, stress and
tear, and that's where
you find the thickness
in the best tyre.
The tread of every
Cycle and
Motor-Cycle Tyre
is made with shallow grooves,
because: —
1. Shallow grooves make
the tyre thicker, and therefore
all the stronger.
2. Shallow grooves protect
the tyre from grits and stones,
which would otherwise adhere,
to be ground into the tread,
That's why MICHELIN
TYRES last.
To be obtained from
all the leading Agents.
“THE LONE HAND ”
for Good Stories and Bright Articles.
Price 6d.
THE LAST WORD
IN STEAM ENGINES IS UNQUESTIONABLY
MARSHAL L’S
—have demonstrated their superiority in every part of the Globe, and in every class of work, over a period of 60 years.
r^3
QUALITY and Positive RELIABILITY
are MARSHALL’S Watchwords
Ask any of the hundreds of satisfied users of MARSHALL'S PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTIONS, OIL TRACTORS, BOILERS, etc., throughout .New South Wales,
what they think about their purchase, and you will be quite convi need.
“Can't be beat," “Best on earth," “Working constantly for 50 years without a hitch,"
“Worth their weight in gold," “Not a moment's lost time" these are a sample
of the remarks we hear every day throughout the year.
Dont be persuaded into believing there are other engines just as good as MARSHALL’S /
Send for Descriptive Catalog past free, CASH OR VERY EASY TERMS
R. L. SCRUTTON <&. CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.,
te C OURTESY and ATTENTION AT COST PRICE n


12
10
5
4
7
French Horizontal Clock, Solid Inlaid
Mahogany Case, high-class movement. Height,
Biin., 30/-
DELIVERED FREE IN
CITY and SUBURBS.
AUNDERS
Sydney’s leading jeweller
ClocKs ClocKs ClocKs.
Thousands of designs to choose from. Your selection would be carefully packed, promptly
despatched, and give you perfect satisfaction. Country Orders must forward extra for freight.
Oak Bedroom Clock,
handscfmeiy carved, bold dial,
Bevelled Glass. Height, 4|in.,
8/6.
Horse and Tamer” Bronze
Ornament. Height, 7in., 7/6.
Silver-Mounted Bedroom Clock,
Solid Oak Case, Richly Embossed, 1-day
time. Height, hiin., 17/6.
s
m
Gilt Bedroom Clock,
Richly Ornamented, Porcelain
Dial. Height, 81in„ 17/6.
Freight Extra
to Country.
1b
H
8-Day Solid Marble Clock, Porcelain Dial, Visible
Escapement, Richly Ornamented. Strikes Hours and Half-
/-hours on Cathedral Gong. Height, 6O-
Fancy Oak Clock, Bronze Mounts, 8-Day Movement.
and Half-hours. Height, lllin. Width, 15in.,
Strikes Hours
£2-
8-Day Enamelled Iron Clock, Richly Decor-
ated. Strikes Hours and Half-hours, on rich Gong.
Height, 104 m., 21/-
GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
807-817
(
mMMm
ss
CIGARETTES
OF HEALTH.
ONLY the very finest tobacco is used in the manufacture of
“Winfred” Cigarettes, and they are made in hygienic factories
treated by a process known only to their manufacturers by
which all foreign matter injurious to heart, throat and lungs is removed.
This is why doctors smoke “ Winfred” Cigarettes.
io
for
6d.
CIGARETTES.
Plain or Gold Tipped.
Sole Manufacturers—
20
for
i/-
TO BE OBTAINED EVERYWHERE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON.
BRITAIN’S GREATEST HIGH-CLASS
CIGARETTE FACTORY.


~ T
UpPPPlilKjgpi ■
Mpgp . > in
WHEREVER you find a General Electric
Co. (U.S.A.) or The British
Thomson Houston Co. Ltd. (England)
Commutating Pole Rotary Converter the
answer is always the same —the operator points
to the commutating poles, then to the smooth
commutator surface, and finally to the log sheets
and meters, showing records of 150% load
for several hours and 200 to 300% momentary
loads —all conditions up to and including
full guarantee loads showing
extreme reliability and low main-
tenance. I hese are the machines
that introduced new space
economies and all day efficiencies.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Co.
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Corner Queen & Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS
'PERTH, W. A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, B.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
.NEW ZEALAND. —The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
ħ
In Motors — Buy the Best
5000 HORSE-POWER
OF MOTORS IN STOCK.
As Supplied under TWO YEARS’ CONTRACT to the
SYDNEY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL.
AUSTRALIAN METAL CO. LTD.
40-2 Clarence Street, Sydney
172-6 William Street, Melbourne
129 Currie Street, Adelaide
• • •
• • '•
We are SOLE AGENTS for
Brown, Boveri O. Co. Ltd.
",
m
,yv. ■
UgH
Brown, Boveri-Parsons Impulse-reaction Turbine of 2800-h.p. at
1000 r.p.m.g for direct coupling to a three-phase alternator
of 21.000 k.v.a.
LEADING SPECIALITIES
Live Steam, Mixed Pressure and Exhaust Steam Turbines.
Turbo-Dynamos and Turbo-Alternators, in the largest sizes
and for any pressure.
Single and Polyphase Transformers, and Switchgear for any
output, and for pressures up to 60,000 volts.
Hydro-Electric Generators, Long Distance Power
and Railway work.
Turbo-Gas Blowers and Exhausters, t
Turbo-Compressors for heavy duty.
Pump Motors (horizontal and vertical) for Mining Work, Elec-
trical Haulage and Winding Plant, etc.
Special Motors for driving Textile Machinery, Paper-making
Machinery, Agricultural Plant, etc.
Regulating Transformers, Induction? Regulators > and Automatic
Pressure Regulators.
Phase Compensators and Speed Regulating > Sets .for large
induction motors.
Electric Train Lighting Equipments.'
Australian Representatives
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street;*SYDNEY.


FRAGRANT
CIGARETTES.
To know the quality and delightful flavor of Sarony
Cigarettes is to always smoke them.
Turkish and Virginia. All leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
WHY NOT HAVE
GIRL LAGER?
IT’S THE FINEST BEER IMPORTED.
POLITICAL
POINTS
REQUIESCAT IN PACE.
The reason that Launceston slept so well was that
the British flag hovered over it night and day.
—George Reid , in Tasmania.
Perhaps if Launceston didn't sleep quite so
well it might be more of a place than it is.
“Itan,” from the North :
The man who says the Beef Trust is not in Aus-
tralia can get plenty of evidence that something
new and large and vigorous is scrimmaging on the
premises. This something is putting up the biggest
meat-packing plant in Australia, on the Brisbane
River, right opposite the Q.M.E. ; it has bought one
of the big works on Ross River (Townsville), and is
openly in possession of another plant which never
before worked so vigorously in all its existence.
Something which looks like the same thing is also
carrying on negotiations to either buy out the Q.M.E.
or get a controlling interest in the concern, with, of
course, its works at Ross Creek. This would give
it, whatever it is, the whole of the business of North
Queensland. In addition to that, it (or something
that looks like it) is after the Lake’s Creek works, at
Rockhampton, which would provide the key of the
situation in Central Queensland. There are reports
also that an emissary has been sounding the three
big retail meat firms in Brisbane to see what they
would part with their shops for. Supposing the
something clinches all these bargains, where is the
machinery to prevent it starting to squeeze right away ?
Already the same mysterious something is buying up
unborn stock, which will close up several large
squattages so far as the open market is concerned.
Then, after this programme is carried out, perhaps
before the National Anthem is sung, the man who
has engineered the cobweb-spinning to date will, it
is said, go off to Maoriland to lay out similar
designs. 1 won’t swear what the Something is that
is doing all these things; but I don’t think it is a
Dorcas meeting.
THE
FEDERAL
POSITION.
Mr. Cook said
the present position
of affairs in the
Federal Parliament
was practically im-
possible. Some of
their friends said:
“Stay where you
are; hold on and
keep the other fel-
low out.” The fact
was they could not
stay on with any
sense of dignity,
under the present
conditions.
Still holding on.
A letter headed “Soldiers of the King,”
which appeared in the Melbourne Age
(18/2/T4) calls for all the inquiry which
the Cook Government is capable of. The
writer gave his address at Malvern, but
didn’t supply his name; still a very mod-
erate amount of search and advertisement
should find him. His complaint was that he
was sacked by his blatant and unlawful
employer because he had to attend camp at
Lilydale as provided by the regulations, the
infuriated Bounderby who paid his wages
evidently regarding himself as above all
regulations. A very earnest pursuit after
Bounderby, and a spell of gaol without the
option, are the least that the case calls for.
N.S.W. is so accustomed to strikes nowa-
days that when 1200 men in the iron trade
- —very ill-paid men some of them —went out
the other day, and it was mentioned that
9000 more might follow, the community
hardly turned a hair. The position was
much as usual. Premier Holman was away
on holiday. The newly-appointed Minister
Estell, in all the glory of his new billet, was
buzzing round. The decayed corpse of Arbi-
tration and the bones of Conciliation were
lying about somewhere. A hot industrial
judge sitting in an ill-ventilated industrial
court was supposed to be administering the
Act that seldom gets anywhere. But the
surf was cool on the beaches, and the clam-
orous fruit barrow offered 36 very decent
peaches for Is., so things might have been
worse.
In the Sydney morning Papers last Wed-
nesday week appeared a letter, part of which
ran thus: —
The flow of water in the Murrumbidgee River is at
the present time at a very low ebb; in fact, if the
dry weather continues the river will become a mere
trickle. My council recently made representations
to the Water Conservation Commission to release
some of the water from the Barren Jack storage with
the view, of obtaining a fair share for the residents
on the river below the irrigation area. The Commis-
sioner has replied to the effect that they are to get
no water, as it is all required for irrigation; this
notwithstanding the fact that when the Irrigation
Act was passed the people on the Murrumbidgee River
were told that they would have a much better flow of
water during the summer months.
The Cotter “River” is a chain of holes; the
mighty Molonglo “River” ran dry days
ago; and now the “Father of Waters,” the
hash-colored Murrumbidgee, is reduced to a
mere trickle! Thus, all three of the “mag-
nificent streams” with which the “Federal
Capital” of Dryberra was to be “watered,”
“laked” and generally made to blossom like
the Bathurst burr, have disappeared for the
time being.
Niels Nielsen, ex-Minister of N.S.W.,
who seems to have a standing claim on the
State for a pleasant travelling billet, is to
represent the Cornstalk community at the
Panama Exhibition. His old engagement to
report on dry bee-farming, or something of
the sort, in the U.S. at £4 a day, having
been exhausted some time ago, Niels N. is
obviously due for a fresh engagement.
Hear Bulletin, —Whenever I want really
authentic information about the Federal
Capital Site and its environs I turn to the
friendly and reliable column of the Fish Ex-
pert of the Sydney Telegraph. That gentle-
man, on an historic occasion some three dry
years or so back, stated the eternal truth
that the famous Cotter “River” was a chain
of waterlioles —and it wasn’t a specially dry
summer when he stated it, either! Last
Saturday the Telegraph’s Fish Editor,
probably emboldened by the preceding news
concerning the drying-up of the Cotter and
the Molonglo, and the extreme tenuity of the
Murrumbidgee; also the ceasing to run of the
Nepean River at Penrith (N.S.W.) ; said
without any preamble :
QUEA'<BEYAN RIVER. —This stream has stopped
running in many places, and is reported in bad
condition.
With all four “rivers” dry, that ought to
settle Hashberra !—M.P.
Bitter words were hurled last week by the
Vaucluse aldermen at Colonel Onslow, their
representative in the N. S. Wales Assembly.
Vaucluse wants a sewer. The council asked
the _ warrior-politician from Camden to
achieve it, and he, after many weary, drain-
less weeks and months, weighed in with a
letter showing that he had written to the
Minister for Works on the matter. Just
that and nothing more —no sewer, nor any
faint prospect of one. Whereupon Alderman
Sargent enragedly:—
I’m sick of these letters. It appears that the
Colonel does little but dictate letters to his type-
writer, and there matters end. He is not a fighter,
but is lying down to it. To my mind, he has lost
his political punch.
An Alderman: Then he ought to resign.
Another Alderman: He is a weak representative.
Etc., Etc.
Of course the infuriated councillors miss the
point. Onslow is not to blame. The culprit
is the Party Government system. He is an
uncompromising Tory. No Labor Govern-
ment will ever get any concessions from
him; no Liberal Government need ever
dread his defection. As a result neither
side takes the slightest notice of his repre-
sentations. He has not lost his punch. He
never had one, for the simple reason that
from the moment he adopted Wadeism (and
this he did a very short time after defeating
Jessep on the Independent ticket) he has
been in .the position of a pugilist with his
hands tied behind his back. A constituency
under the Party system has to pay for
luxuries like irreconcilable Conservatives or
absolutely reliable Laborites. The wobbler
has to he bought with drains and railways
and things. He who doesn’t wobble is
bought already.
A GENTLE REMINDER.
I have nothing to say, excepting that I am fond
of all the sports that Australians pursue—that is,
racing, cricket, fishing and golf. —Sir Arthur Lyulph
Stanley, Governor-Designate of Victoria.
WILLIE WATT: "Of course there'll be a good
deal of solid work connected with it, too.
For instance, how are you on opening
bazaars?”
A brief dialogue in a tram-car. Fat Man
(with emphasis) : “The action of General
Botha in deporting these turbulent trades'
unionists was most admirable! By gad, sir, I
would like to shake the hand of such a
patriot.” Lean Man (getting square -for
many old-time insults) : “Yah! Pro-Boer!”
PROBLEMS.—A TRAGEDY.
(Apropos the general state of tilings under Federal
administration at present.)
JOE: “To be—or not to be"
From “ ’Berra-ite” :
The members of the Railway Workers’ Union at
Canberra are enraged over the local water ques-
tion. That is to say, they are infuriated over the
lack of a water question. At the site itself there
is no water at all. There is a rampart of impressive
brown mountains in the distance, and a series of
rolling brown plains near at hand, and underneath
the hill, where the foundation-stone was laid last
year, a deceptive clump or two of willows showing
the place where water used to be. Rut the article
itself is absent. It has to be drawn along mains
from afar—from many miles afar. And even then
there is very little of it; so little that when the
water had been pumped up into the mains the
engineers did not fancy the risk of wasting the valu-
able fluid by giving the pipes a thorough wash. As
a consequence, dirt, pitch and other unpleasantnesses
pervade the pipes, and the protests of the users of
the fluid cause the surrounding welkin to ring loudly.
Canberra is essentially a wet-season capital.
A quaint resolution passed by the A.W.U.
Conference held in Sydney was that “under
no circumstances should members of the
citizen forces be required to bear arms or
render military service against their Aus-
tralian fellow citizens.” So if another Kelly
gang arises and starts holding up banks and
towns the citizen forces are not to interfere
on any account. And if Fat beguiles a sec-
tion of the Australian soldiery to start a Fat
revolution, the section which remains true
to Democratic principles isn’t to take a hand
in suppressing the upheaval. It seems a mad
sort of business, but there is a good deal of
madness about.
According to N.S.W. Education Minister
Carmichael: —-
In regard to decentralisation the Premier proposes,
on his return, to go into the matter as fully as
practicable ... .There will, I think, be a pronounce-
ment before very long relative to the Government’s
decentralisation proposals. They have reached a
certain stage already. .. .A good deal of correspond-
ence has taken place Though no very active steps
have been taken and no definite pronouncement made
still a good deal of work is being done in gathering
the information. .. .something practical will be
attempted.
It looks curious that there should be all this
lingering and maundering and pondering and
haze and mist about decentralisation, which
is on the Labor programme, while the frantic
rush to borrow many millions, quite contrary
to the Labor programme, can be done at
short notice and without any profound burial
in thought of Holman or anybody else. Cer-
tainly decentralisation must needs raise the
question of State ownership of land —the
land the new cities will stand on. And the
question of State ownership of land has
already made a heap of trouble, which ended
in Labor Minister Nielsen resigning his port-
folio and being sent to the United
States at £4 per day. And the
decentralisation question can’t be raised in
dead earnest without aggravating the Tory
papers of Sydney, which, if they boiled over,
might become really nasty. On the other
hand, any Charles Surface or Hooley or
Jubilee Juggins can borrow so long as he
can find a complaisant lender and put the
name of poor little Posterity on the back of
the bill, and all manner of political friends
can be acquired with the money. But, how-
ever unsatisfactory the position may be, it is
gratifying to know that Carmichael
thinks that when Holman comes back, though
no very active steps have yet been taken and
there is an absence of definite pronounce-
ment, yet on Holman’s return it is proposed
(not decided) to go into the decentralisation
matter as fully as practicable (nothing fuller
than practicable is in contemplation), and a
certain stage having been already attained
something may be attempted.
WHERE ARE THE LIBERALS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sydney papers deplore the apathy of the Lib-
eral party, and are asking for a strong and definite
pronouncement of the leaders on urgent questions of
policy.
A cry ascending, the heavens rending, the world
upending, camerados !
The cry of those in heaviness and sore distress—-
The wail of Grandmamma and the sob of Aunt
’Tiloagraph, and the howl of spurious emo-
tion from certain papers, anxious about their
dividends.
Their moan is gone aloft, even as the late-lamented
Tom Bowling, who must not be confused with
Peter.
Where are the JAberals?
The Liberals, camerados, are gone to the Mountains
—yea, even to the Excessively Blue Mountains
of Disorganisation!
The Liberals are gone a-Maying, or a moping, or a
million, or anything else beginning with— Ahem!
The Liberals are despised and rejected of the elec-
torates; they are tired, blase, shamefaced, fool-
ish, worm-like and quite harmless.
And Labor triumphs over them—and serve them
d—d well right!
They fight the light of the hearty lunch, the combat
of the tame pussy-cat and the frenzied campaign
of the wrinkle-nosed pugdog.
The Liberals mourn on the mountain-tops, but their
movements are weary, and in their mourning
they are still divided !
They hear the moan, and the cry, and the sob, and
the sniff of Aunt ’Tildagrapu and Grand-
mamma, and their bowels of passion and com-
passion remain motionless as a mantis!
Where are the Liberals?
I’eradventurc, they are gone a-liunting for a nice,
fat, rich, foolish candidate;
Peradventure, they are dusting the moths out of the
Liberal banner —that banner whereon twice have
perched the boding ravens of Defeat.
Who will carry the Liberal banner, camerados?
Who will fight for the Slugs, and the Fainthearts,
and the Tireds of Liberalism ?
Who will go down into the Cellar and write a
cheque for his Country?
Who will organise a spiteful, petty, narrow-minded
“League” of tenth-rate Sassiety Wimmen and
Tea-Givers, in the Name of the Cause?
Though Labor be fey, and its borrowings smell down-
ward to The Other Place, and its anxiety to
keep in with everyone be deplorable, yet Labor
can put up a respectable fight, camerados!
Labor hitteth with a club, but the “true Liberal”
putteth up one-and-sixpence, and crieth: “Aha!
You naughty persons ; I will push you with this
feather! ”
Whereupon those froward borrowers of the Tirades
Hall curl up and die, of course!
1 don’t think!
And the moan of Grandma and the sob of Auntie
ascend to Heaven.
Meantime, the Liberals are bewildered upon the
Mountains whereto they have gone.
That’s where the Liberals are, camerados.
May they stop there till they learn to scrap, ar.d
rise, and abolish the Cellar, the Old Gang, and
the nice, rich, foolish Candidate!
N.s.tv.
O. C. CABOT.


lap**
m
'J
To Own This
is to Own
the Best.
If you wish to own a small Grand Piano of Exclusive
and Exquisite Design, this magnificent-toned Boudoir
Grand cannot fail to appeal to your artistic taste.
Real Music-lovers should not miss our display of these small Grands.
Imported specially from the world-famous EONGSCII Factories,
they are without a rival in their fitness for adorning any refined
home where High-grade Quality Counts the Most. To see one of
these brilliant instruments is to long to have one. Designed after
the “Sheraton” style with a handsome mahogany case, the veneer of
which possesses remarkable beauty, the grain being an exceptionally
rare and artistic creation, you have in the
Ronisch Boudoir Grand
“A Perfect Specimen of the Piano-maker’s Art.”
Another feature of this distinctive instrument is the consolidated
iron frame. Superbly decorated in gold bronze, and cast into one
piece, with 6 cross iron bracings. This ensures strength, and adds
long life to the piano. The system of stringing is worth noting,
being on the “agraffe” principle, thereby making sure of a Pure,
Full, Resonant Tone. It also enables the instrument to stand in
tune for long periods in any change of climate. As we only have a
limited supply of these exclusive Grands, early application is
recommended.
Send for 111 ustra ted
Catalogue and Price List,
post free. We sell on
Easy Terms, if desired.
PALINGS,
338 Georg'e Street,
SYDNEY
and at
Newcastle* Lismore, Brisbane* Toowoomba
The Leviathan Guarantee
Makes all the Risk Our Risk.
FIND a single fault in any suit we make for
you and we'll take it back, returning every
penny of your purchase money. Briefly, that is
the Leviathan Guarantee, which makes
clothes-buying safe for every man who
shops with us by mail. Let it protect YOU
when next you place an order.
Send the coupon now for patterns of our
SUIT .0 ORDER
&
2\
<3273
5$
Mail- \
Order I
Special/
"Guaranteed to a Buttonhole.”
There's no suit value that compares with
this, none in which such fine fabrics and
splendid tailoring are offered at a price
so low.
THE LEVIATHAN,
c/o Swans ton and Bourke Streets, Melb.
Please send me a Pattern Selection of your
new Suitings at 52/6. This request incurs no
obligation.
Name
Address
BVn. 26/2/’l4.
Mail Orders.
We Pay Freight on
all Orders to any
address. Our Cata-
logue, Patterns, etc., are Post Free on
request. We guarantee satisfaction or your
money back.
Leviathan
@n\er Sw&nsfon c BourKe flelboume.
ram
a®!
□
m
ms
mm
□
□
READY
MARCH 1
1914
EDITION.
This Catalogue is just out.
It contains 400 pages of information
about all the best Cameras and
Photo. Supplies made, if you are
interested in Photography you can=
not afford to be without a copy of
Harringtons’ Catalogue
SENT FREE ANYWHERE.
ITS
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in Each State and N.Z.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SUFFERED ALL MY LIFE.
“All my life I have suffered from constipation,”
writes Mr. Ernest Edridge, Halifax Street, Nelson,
N.Z., “but am pleased to state that since I started
taking Chamberlain’s Tablets they have always given
me immediate relief, and I can thoroughly recom-
mend them to anyone suffering from a like com-
plaint.”*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
WORMS.
THE CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
Undoubtedly there is no greater enemy to
the health, happiness and comfort of chil-
dren than the presence of worms. Parents
should be on their guard if a child shows
any of the marked symptoms, such as dis-
turbed sleep, grinding of the teeth, restless-
ness, irritation, and picking the. nose, to
ascertain for certain if the child is afflicted
with these parasites, and if they are, to at
once administer Comstock’s “Dead Shot
Worm Pellets according to directions.
They are a safe, sure and reliable remedy,
prepared in the form of a lolly, and chil-
dren take them without any hesitation.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable preparation for
the eradication of worms in children
and adults. For sale by all chemists and
storekeepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will
be sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
On the very day when it was printed,
The Bulletin's suggestion that Carnell might win
the Caulfield Futurity Stakes proved fatal to
“Baron” Brown’s imported mare. She broke a blood
vessel whilst galloping on the track, and died of in-
ternal hemorrhage. Carnell was the unluckiest of
Mr. Baron’s investments in horseflesh. She cost him 2100
guineas as a two-year-old in England, and ran a few
times in Australia without getting placed. Carnell’s
failure to sprint up to her track promises, or to show
any signs of the stamina which her breeding sug-
gested, may have been due to a mishap to her works
when she was suffering the voyage from England.
“Reversals of form” at Caulfield must
have given the stipendiary stewards something to
think about, though, seemingly, those official guar-
dians of racing morals were as silent as the sailor’s
parrot. For instance, St. Vano’s easy victory in the
VVoodcliffe Handicap (11 furlongs) was utterly at
variance with his poor showing in the Bond Cup a
week previously, where he carried the same jockey
and much about the same weight. And Brattle’s
capture of the rich Futurity Stakes (7 furlongs)
what should have been said of that in the light of
his running in the St. George Stakes (9 furlongs) ?
On February 14 this same Brattle carried 7st. as
against the triumphant Jolly Beggar’s 9st. 21b. and
Cider’s 9st., and ran nowhere. Dorrington rode the
colt that time, and he didn’t figure in the betting.
Of Cider’s bad performance in the St. George’s, it
was said to be “all wrong.” Punters wve warned
to take no notice of it. But no apology was offered
for Brattle. Yet, with McLachlan up, Brattle was
1 tacked down to 12 to 1 for the Futurity Stakes, and
he won cleverly from Cider, with Jolly Beggar
lengths away. The “reversal of form” was a stag-
gerer, seeing that the 3-year-old carried Bst. 21b., and
won practically from end to end.
* * * *
The V.R.C. Autumn Meeting starts on
Saturday with every promise of going to be a bad
time for punters. The two principal handicaps look
fairly open races, and none of the most likely ones
seem good enough to swear by. Very probably the
Newmarket will be anybody’s race a furlong from
home. Half a dozen or more of the luckiest strugglers
may fight out a ding-dong finish, in which case
everything will depend on whether one or other
happens to be dinging or donging at the critical
moment when the judge’s eye is caught. Certainly
it is impossible to pick one capable of hopping away
in front and staying there. The Tasmanians swear
by little Desire, who lias 9st. lib. to carry, 181 b.
more than he won with two years ago. The writer
prefers Desire to Jolly Beggar and Popinjay, but is
sweetest on Cider of the high weights. The afore-
said quartette, with Aleconner, Gold Brew, Brattle,
Rathlea and Trixette have something to recommend
their chances. Cider, Brattle, Gold Brew, Averse,
Rathlea and Aleconner are the best handicapped on
latest “form”—also previous “form,” for that matter.
Last year The Bulletin happened to find the New-
market winner—Relievo—in one pick. This time
the pick is
CIDER.
By way of excuse for the rash prediction, it may be
said that Cider, greatly improved in appearance since
last year, looked as though his fine race with
Brattle in the Futurity would improve him. And,
anyhow, the P.M.G.’s representative is a gee of some
“class,” and is of a coming-on disposition.
The Australian Cup, due on Tuesday, is usu-
ally won by first-class staying power, though
sometimes a commoner with a light weight gets
home, and once or twice a speedy horse has won a
slow-run race. Given a good pace from the start,
Harpist should be there or thereabouts, unless the
sluggish beast is a fraud who has gained only a false
reputation in his w.f.a races. And the claims of
The Parisian will be undeniable if he gets to the
post with his always doubtful leg in good enough
order. The old chap is said, at time of writing, to be
doing well. But no wise punter will back The
Parisian in preference to Harpist until the ancient
hero has survived his final gallops on the track. Two
horses with apparent chances to win the long Aus-
tralian Cup if they miss the Newmarket sprint and
escape a penalty are Cider and Desire.
Sea Prince, notwithstanding his strange moods
and manners may be expected to do well at Fleming-
ton in w.f.a. races where the field is not crowded
and the distance is not more than 12 furlongs. Pro-
bably the Melbourne Cup disappointment is not a
great stayer. In the Australian Cup, with Bst. 121 b.
up, the snorting English horse will have another
chance to show what sort he really is over a long
distance.
* * * *
From Adelaide: The last Sheffield Shield
match of the season ended in a win for S A. over
Vic. by a mere 86 runs. Ryder (105) and Souter
(not out 48) making a great' stand, near the end, for
the losers. With Whitty away with a bad knee,
Crawford again had to do most of the bowling for
S.A. He took five wickets in one innings and six
in the other. On the other side there was also just
one bowler, Ryder. Clem Hill, 105 and 60, was
back in his best form, and there are heaps of young
bats on either side who may shortly be seen in Test
matches, though Ryder is the only certainty in sight.
Shield results for the season: N.S.W., three wins;
S.A. (holders), two; Victoria, one.
* * * *
The opening of the 10th round of Sydney
First-Grade Cricket happened on Saturday, and the
batsmen ran amok, and generally cut loose. H.
Davis, of Waverley, battered 158 on the board before
Folkard managed to clean bowl him. Barbour, of
University, put up a pleasant show of 135 ; and was
then caught by Buckle off Gwynne. PI. Cooper
lifted 114 on to the credit of North Sydney, and then
Emery got him. And Macartney put 106 on to
Gordon’s score iust before putting his leg in front of
the wicket. Which is the second time he has done
it two consecutive times. Four centuries for one after-
noon is going some; and there was good solid work-
manlike batting in addition. Bubb, of North Syd-
ney, backed up Cooper’s 114 with a useful 96. Wal-
ford, of Waverley, carried his bat for 77, and Van
der Heyde, of North Sydney, did likewise for 58.
F. M. Farrar, of University, hit 58 for Alma Mater.
Stack smote 55 for the same learned maternal party
and James 52. So the old lady was well served, and
went back to the dusty tomes in her library feeling
good. In spite of these deeds of derringdo with the
bat a few men raised some dust with the ball.
Coogan, of Central Cumberland, otherwise Parramatta,
took six Gordon sticks for 64. Rough violently as-
saulted five Petersham wickets for 54, in the inter-
ests of Middle Harbor. Goddard of Redfern got
five North Sydney batsmen for 118. The reliable
Folkard, of Balmain, made hay and splinters of
four Waverley wickets for 87, and Wall, of the same
club, assisted in the deadly work with four for 71.
As for the actual scoring, Waverley hit up 328 for
nine wickets against Balmain. Paddington, a very
sober club on the afternoon, made only 188, to which
Sydney responded with 76 for the loss of four sticks.
Gordon, with the help of its cherub’s 1(16, put 257
on the board against Central Cumberland, and Central
C. got 39 for the loss of two men. North Sydney
surprised itself and staggered the natives with 361
off the Redfern bowling, and the Syrian suburb lost
one wicket for 48. University hit 390 and then got
two Glebe wickets for a miserable 10 runs. Peter-
sham could not get loose and accumulated only
205, to which Middle Harbor responded with .196 for
the loss of three.
University’s huge score is not due so much to the
excellence of its own play as to the vileness of the
Glebe fielding. Barbour, who made 135, should have
been cut off at 50, but the hand of the catcher shook.
Barbour’s 135 were hit up in 150 minutes, and in-
cluded 17 fours and one six. Macartney bashed his
106 for Gordon in 86 minutes, and hit 16 fours.
Cooper, of North Sydney, included 16 fours and two
sixes in his 114. It was a case of getting the bat
between their teeth, so to speak.
* * * *
Melbourne’s cricketers got two ideal sum-
mer Saturdays for the ninth round of the pennant
competition, and scores were considerable. North
declared at 363 for eight wickets (Stuckey 108). It
then proceeded to wipe the turf with South; but
South proved obstreperous, and had lost but three
for 225 when the umpires drew the stumps. North-
cote, meeting CollingwoOd, took advantage of Ryder’s
absence in Adelaide, and piled up 309 (Yeomans 104
and Begg 111 n. 0.). Even that lot was hardly
enough for comfort, as ’Wood collected 200 for six
wickets. But the last four took the total to only
214, so ’Cote won easily. P’ran managed to gather
in a genteel 224, and chased the leather while St.
Hilda’s first three batsmen made 189. Then, too late,
P’ran got to work and capsized the rest of the wickets
for a total of 235, which was 10 too many. East
raked together 232 and felt good when the first five
Richmond wickets collapsed for 60, but before the
other five fell the score had crept to 215, and East
was feeling unhappy. The match was really decided
by an old and reliable scorer named Sundries, who
contributed no less than 38 to East’s tally and 22 to
Richmond’s. An average 30 per innings is a comely
score. The Students slowly put together 200 minus
one, and then spent a period of vain regrets mingled
with spasms of hope while Carlton jerkily accumu-
lated 179. Two of the jerks, so to speak, were Stan-
ley’s 101 and Warne’s 35 ; the rest was mostly single
figures. One of the sub-district games was notable
for its suddenness. With the aid of 132 from Brere-
ton and 108 n.o. from McColl, Port Melb. found it
safe to close with eight wickets down for 474.
McColl and Anderson then got busy on Haw-haw-thorn
and polished it off for 23, McColl taking four for 14
and Anderson five for nine. The Ports were demolish-
ing it a second time, and had eight for 96 when
“knock off” was called. This time McColl got four
for 32 and St. John three for 21.
“BONG GARSONG JOOLES !”
Jules Dubourg, the indiarubber Frenchman,
scraps 20 elusive rounds with Dave Smith
(victor).
T. Southall, the obscure M.L. cricketer
who burst so suddenly into fame the other day at
Wellington, by bowling Armstrong and the mighty
Trumper with consecutive balls for “a blob” apiece,
has had a curious cricket career. He is a school
teacher, and five years ago was stationed in Taranaki,
where he was famous as the demon bowler of the Cow-
spanking Province. Then he took a native school and
vanished into the backblocks, to turn up casually
last year in Wellington and bag a big crop of wickets.
This season he has been playing for a third-grade
team, composed mostly of “Our Mr. Brown” from the
Big Rag Palaces. He is tall and thin, and from a height
like Heaven he dropped the slow, left-handed stuff,
with spin from either side, that caused Australia to
fade away for a paltry 124. None of the batsmen
seemed to know anything about his methods in the
first innings (they had never been bowled by an
aeroplane before), so he blazed like a meteor for one
brief day, took five for 34, and incidentally sent all
Wellington out on the beer. If he’d repeated the dose
in the second innings he’d have sprung into the M.L.
team in one bound; but Trumper and Co. banged his
slows to the four winds of Heaven at the second at-
tempt, and, in an official sense, he hasn’t been seen
since.
* * * »
Treasurer A. W. Green, of N.S.W. Cricket
Association, is wearing a worried expression on his
financial phiz, just now. No matter how tight he
keeps the bag strings drawn the balance slowly but
surely sinks. The season commenced with a credit
of £2566 : and it is estimated that, by the end of
June, it will have shrunk to £l623—a loss on the
season of £943. Compared with last year the
matches with Queensland, South Australia and Vic-
toria have panned out badly, the total receipts being
£657 4s. lid. less. Adding Tasmania and a
colts’ match, the total slump is £695 9s. Id. The
position is serious.
* * * *
Some good times were put up by a couple
of South Australian motor-bikists outside Adelaide
last week, considering the fact that the machines
used were of the touring type, made for hard work
and rough roads rather than speed. W. B. Randall
on a 3i-h.p. ltudge in full touring condition streaked
over the half-mile in 27 l-ssec., or at the rate of
66 miles per hour. R. E. Koster then stripped off
everything but the wheels and frame and engine and
let himself go with a roar and a bang, and when
the dust had settled it was discovered he had
covered the half-mile in 26 l-ssec., or equal to 68
miles per hour. Roster’s machine was a 3i-h.p. Kent.
*** “ ♦
The absence of Oscar Dickman in Ade-
laide (S.A.) left the waterfield of Sydney clear for
the budding swimmers of the League in the Mile
Professional Championship on Saturday. A. Rollinson
picked up the stray bauble with 51see. to spare from
J. Pryer. At the same gathering Miss G. Hooper
raked in the 50 Yards Ladies’ Championship in 32sec.,
and thereby clipped one second from the previous best
figures in the “book.”
* * * *
Burrinjuck, N.S.W.’s inland artificial
lake, was the scene of a boat race on Saturday
afternoon last. When the great dam is full it will,
according to sundry people who are called experts,
hold more water than Sydney Harbor, but as to how
full it is at present there is no general knowledge.
The race was a rowing contest, and was carried
out in locally-built boats of 14ft. One was pulled
by A. Beencke and the other by W. Curtis. Beencke
led all the way over a course of 2% miles; and
will live in history as the man who won the first
race on the Big Water.
* * * *
Syd Kemp, of N.S.W., and Billy McDevitt,
of Tasmania, provided a moderately stirring sculling
tussle for a £lOO sweepstake on Parramatta River
on Saturday. Kemp came out top-dog with four
lengths to spare. Sydney is the son of the long-ago
champion Peter of that ilk; and Peter holds the
opinion, shared by many others, that in the fulness
of time Sydney may develop into a top-notch oars-
man.
* * * *
The men who went sailing on Port Jack-
son (N.S.W.) on Saturday afternoon found the
faintest of north-east breezes to work on. Every
kind of boat was out, and the little split walnut-
shell craft of 6ft. carried acres of sail, and helped
to make up one of the most gorgeous pictures ever
seen on that pictorial water. It was the Royal
Yacht Squadron’s day, and the bone of contention
was the Morna Cup, presented by the commodore,
Alex. MacCormick, to become the property of the
yacht with the first three wins. Eight faced the
starter, with topsails aloft, and a most charming
start was effected, Sayonara and Petrel crossing
the line a fraction of a second ahead of the bunch.
It was flood tide, running strongly, so the fleet
hugged the northern shore. The beautiful Culwulla
111. soon went to the front. But in that spasmodic
and broken breeze all sorts of unexpected things
happened, and position varied constantly on the way
to Bradley’s Head, which was passed by Culwulla,
Petrel, Yuelba, Sayonara, White Wings, Ranee, Sun-
beam and Curlew, in that order. At Manly Cul-
wulla 111. still led, followed by Sayonara, Petrel,
White Wings and Ranee, in that order, and although
Ranee, Petrel and White Wings were first with the
extras, Culwulla and Sayonara promptly bolted from
the fleet. The little Petrel could not keep pace with
the two big fliers, and when the race was over Mr.
Marks, with Culwulla, had annexed the Cup. Sayo-
nara was second and little Petrel third. It was a
race worthy of being put in verse by Byron or
“Bellerive,” and it would have exhausted the muse
of Martin Tupper.
* * * *
Yachting is a glorious sport, but to the
onlooker the wild scramble of open-boating is more
interesting. The open boat is always liable to cap-
size, which the yacht isn’t; and the possibility gives
zest. On Saturday the 18-footers’ State Champion-
ship was on deck, and provided an intense struggle, in
which the past-masters at the game played all they
knew. The most formidable figure in the contest
was the veteran Chris Webb, with Australian, the
Australasian champion. The race eventually devel-
oped into a triangular duel, contestants being Nim-
rod, the ultimate winner, Australian and the rough-
weather boat Kismet. At the start, every inch of
canvas that could be crowded on was there, and the
boats were invisible in the snowy clouds of sails.
Nimrod got away first, followed by Mavis, with the
mighty Australian sailing magnificently in pursuit.
Then Kismet came with a rush and sailed right into
third place, displacing Mavis, which Australian had
already passed. Nimrod seemed to have'caught a
special breeze of its own and tore through the water
like a racehorse, while the rest vainly raked the sky
for more wind. Then out of the ruck came Pastime,
swept along on the bosom of a .catspaw that all
other boats missed. But at the first mark Nimrod
was still in front, dancing gleefully on almost glassy
waters, with Australian and Kismet second and third
in that order. On the run to Shark Island the breeze
alnjiost failed, and every possible rag was thrown out.
Kismet seemed to be worked by invisible machinery,
and, heading Australian, rushed to within 15sec. of
the fast moving Nimrod. Then it suddenly seemed
to lose way, while Nimrod still bobbed on like Sheol.
These three were in a division by themselves, and
behind them the flotilla did a strong but simple
crawl. After passing Clark Island, Nimrod and
Kismet got to it, bowsprit by bumpkin, with Aus-
tralian 24sec. behind, ready to overwhelm both of
them. Then started a battle royal between the
three, and after many lightning changes 1 Australian
passed and got away from Kismet, and Nimrod was
still leading Australian. The finish was a sight to
remember, as Nimrod and Australian in the final
rush set ballooners from the masthead, and Kismet
let loose a topsail spinnaker. It was a moment when
a skipper would have hung up his mother-in-law to
catch an extra breath of ozone. Australian reduced
Nimrod’s lead of 55sec. to 33sec., and then the
gods, or the dogs, intervened, and Australian got
her spinnaker into the water as they entered on the last
mile from home. Nimrod flew along and won by
27sec. from Australian, which beat Kismet by 52sec.
It was a most spectacular race.
* * * *
The second banquet of the visiting Yankee
athletes to Sydney was not the gorge expected, but
an event for the local men to whoop over. On the
first day the Yankee brethren galloped over and
through the dark stem ring of the home team, and
won the six events they entered for. But a week of
revelry had hit them where they kept their dinner,
and they could win only one out of six at the second
try. They weren’t even in the same street with
Coleridge’s Ancient Mariner, who, despite his burden
of years, stopped one of three. The star perform-
ance of the day was the leaping of R. R. Templeton
(U.S.A.) in a special tilt at the pole-vault record.
After five tries, he lifted himself over the bar at
lift. 6-1 in. Templeton deserved the wild applause
the alien congregation bestowed upon him, for it was
a magnificent jump. G. L. Parker (U.S.A.) scored
the only championship for the visiting team by easily
demolishing the N.S.W. topnotchers over 220yds. in
22 4-ssec. The opposition wasn’t fast enough to
make the flying Yankee even hustle. The same man
also toed the mark in the 120yds. handicap, and in
the final went under by inches only in 11 4-ssec. —
two yards under evens. Which is below the records
of J. Donaldson at Pretoria ('lljsee.), Walker at
Johannesburg (11 2-ssec.—world’s best), and a num-
ber of others. In the other events, Ma Staters had
all their own way. A. F. Thorpe (holder) retained
the 880yds. by brilliantly defeating J. A. Power
(U.S.A.) and F. Madeley in lmin. 59 4-ssec. In
the Three Miles run, P. Longman (holder) walloped
a big field in 15min. 54 l-ssec. In the 440yds.
Hurdles, J. W. Fraser (holder) left the rest behind
in 61 l-ssec. Champion-walker H. W. Pickard had
only a solitary opponent in the three miles walk —a
wearisome event—and scored an easy win in 22min.
51 4-ssec. As for jumping, “Jock” Smith out-soared
half a dozen others with a high jump of sft. 9in.—
three inches under the “worst-best” effort. T.
Maher had small mercy on opponents in the hop,
skip and jump of 43ft. sin., while John Hop W. J.
O’Reilly heaved the 161 b. hammer 136 ft. 4in.—
3ft. lin. ahead of the previous best done in N.S.W.
* * * *
Yankee runner G. L. Parker took away a
fine record from Australia. At Melbourne he won
the 100, 220 and 440 Yards Australasian Champion-
ships. At Sydney the same treble went to the same
fleeting feet. The pick of the Australian sprinters
made Parker hustle in the 100 Yards sprints, but
over the other distances he was easily supreme.
Still, he was fortunate to strike Australia at a
time when sprinting is at about the nadir.
“0.K.”: A lot of nonsense is talked about
the pluck of the person who plays the passenger part
in an aeroplane performance, as though the mere
requirement to sit still and say nothing were a
severe strain on a strong nerve. The pluckiest person
I ever saw engaged in a public performance was a
bulky citizen, frock-coated and tall-hatted, who clam-
bered upon the back of Blondin, and stayed there
whilst the little Frenchman walked about 40 yards
along a rope which was stretched fully 150 ft. above
the ground. There was no net to catch them if Blon-
din lost his balance. The passenger knew that if his
nerve gave way he would upset Blondin and be
dropped into Eternity, yet he got through his ordeal
with the stolidity of a sack of potatoes, and raised
his belltopper to the multitude when the landing-
stage was reached.
Maoriland Amateur Athletic Champion-
ships, at Dunedin, recently, brought to light a new
and promising athlete in the person of one, H.
Martis. He is a Kanaka, and was in Dunedin
representing Wanganui. In the 100 and 220 Yards
he bolted from the opposition, and showed phenomenal
sprinting ability. Another deed of merit was the
overthrow of Beat son, who recently gathered the
Three Miles Australasian Championship at Melbourne,
by a Wellington youth named Hudson. In the tussle
for the Championship Shield, Wellington with 47-t
points jumped on the rest, the nearest of which was
Otago with a miserable 26 points, followed by Can-
terbury with a still more miserable 17, Southland
with 16i, and last of all (breathe it not in Gath
and lie darned low in Askelon) Auckland with five.
* * * »
The annual swim-through-Adelaide was a
popular affair this year, with 70 swimmers strung
out along the Torrens Lake, to the great confusion
of the resident black swans. Unfortunately, the
handicappers had not yet realised that, where com-
parative form is hardly known, it is unsafe to give
anybody a start ranging from a third to a half of
the course. Moon did the mile and 570 yards in
37min. 36sec. from scratch, but, as several who could
cover it in from 45 to 47 minutes had 15 or even 17
minutes start, none of the backrriarkers had a chance.
* * * *
The wild cheering that greeted Dave
Smith when he appeared in the ring at Sydney
Stadium, for the first time after his disastrous meet-
ing with Eddie McGoorty, evidently filled that boxer
with a wild desire to out Jules Dubourg in short
order. His anxiety was tempered with high hope
owing to the memory left behind by Paul Til and
the other French boxers who failed to make good
in the not too distant past. So Smith came out,
even as McGoorty had advanced bn him, and tried to
suddenly overwhelm the Frenchman. But the thin,
melancholy-looking Gaul was not to be overwhelmed
by any sudden rush. He is an excellent boxer, and
he has pluck and capacity for punishment. In a few
rounds he demonstrated that he was quicker with his
left than Smith, and had he possessed a punch Smith
would not have lived seven rounds. As it was, he
hit Smith whenever he liked, but didn’t hit him hard
enough. If he had had an axe the business wouldn’t
have lasted two seconds. Smith fought what can be
described only as a rotten fight. His anxiety to
retrieve his reputation was painful, and led him to
take risks that, had the clever Gaul been able to
hit hard, or had he taken his club into the ring with
him, would have led to Smith’s downfall. The
Frenchman has a good guard, and, moreover, has ihe
knack of bending to the blows he cannot dodge in
a manner that robs them of all their effect and half
their sting. Over and over again he made Smith’s
swings and swipes and wallops look crude and ama-
teurish. Dubourg would have won the fight had he
“gone for” Smith. But he was a stranger fighting
in a foreign land, and seemed to feel the strange-
ness. So he didn’t lead, nor did he follow up what
advantages he scored, nor did he bite Smith once. ;
What someone who loves him should do is to whisper
in his ear that it is wrong to be polite in a boxing
ring. His game is to bash the other fellow on the
jaw and put it all over him, and wallop him off
the premises, and make him feel as if all the pyra-
mids of Egypt had dropped on him. Dubourg is
quite a different type of fighter from the ones who
have preceded him from his own country. He is
full of grit, he is scrupulously fair, he is skilful, and
he can take punishment; and, judging by his exhibi-
tion on Saturday night, he requires only confidence
to develop into a first-class fighting man. At pre-
sent he is only a boxer.
* * * *
Arthur Evernden, of England, met “Sol”
Jones, of Queensland, at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night, and between them they contrived to give
an utterly putrid exhibition. The angry referee, W.
Newhouse, warned them in the 12th meeting or inter-
view or conversation or caucus or steak-and-ovster
supper—it could not be called a round —that unless
they put more damage into it (gave up wrestling
and hugging, and had some dim outline of a scrum)
he would declare it “no fight”—which would mean
they would get no cash. They brightened up in the
13th for a while, and then suddenly remained sta-
tionary once more. In the 15th Newhouse felt him-
self suddenly knocked out by a great weariness, and,
stopping the scramble, he addressed the public. “Fair
sirs, gentlemen and others, you came here to see a
boxing contest, not a wrestling match or a bunny-
hugging competition; and by virtue of the powers
vested in me, and the authority I hold as vice-regent
of the most high, mighty and virtuous Snowy Baker.
I declare this thing, whatever it is, NO FIGHT.”
Or words to that effect. And thereupon the audience
gat itself up on the seats and cheered the said New-
house, declaring his name was blessed. What the
boxers, or bunny-huggers, called him did not trans-
pire. Seen aftei'wards Jones declared he had received
only a week’s notice and had done his best. If a
few more referees follow the example set by Newhouse
it will raise the standard of the boxing.


WHY DON’T YOD LEARN
TO USE YOOR HANDS?
ĥ
You fully realise the importance of know-
ing how to defend yourself. Because self-
preservation is part and parcel of every form
of life.
You ought to do something to develop your
natural power. Why not learn to box —learn
to use your hands to the best advantage?
Otherwise the time will surely come when
you will bitterly repent your indecision.
Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then —you’ll wish in vain.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how
to box. I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable
moves known to Kingcraft. The best moves
of the most famous living boxers will form
part of your instruction. If you were
entangled in a mix-up, what a big advantage
you’d have —what confidence you’d have, and
that’s half the battle. Here is a letter from
one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with
my boxing. I am beginning to feel sure
of myself. It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence,
Write for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having.
because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
Send three penny stamps tor postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
272 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
«rsj&
SOLOMON
[VI
/V
tobacconist;
gj-y E>r" i T-■
PITT
173
TRY MY
It •is T. C. Williams’ latest production, and
has. a delightful flavor and aroma that satis-
fies where other tobaccos fail.
It smokes sweet and cool to the bottom of
the pipe.
; Put up in three strengths—Mild, Medium
and Pull.
7 /'- per lb. Plug, and 7/6 per lb. Cut.
Postage in N.S.W. on lib., 9d; inter-State,
1/2.
My Catalog ,of Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco,
etc., will be mailed free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
6
"Keep Smiling
In other words:
-Shell
'-'^Benzine
O BTAI N AB L E
HVER.YWHERE
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
ħ
h
KRUPP
MINING
AND
KRUPP
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
BALL MILLS. TUBE MILLS.
If you desire modern machinery, we recommend you to
place your requirements before us. We are Specialists
in Mining and Industrial Machinery.
CONSULT US BEFORE PLACING YOUR ORDER.
NOYES Bros.
(MELB.) PTY. LTD.
499 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
NOYES Bros.
(SYD.) LTD.
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
KRUPP
And at BRISBANE.
ADELAIDE AGENTS—
STEELE & BAKER.
KRUPP
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S A L L/ E, S held at frequent
intervals by
A.M.UF.CO.
LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
Rianey Shoes
are becoming more and more the choice
of those gentlemen to whom price is not the
only consideration, but who prefer Rigney
Shoes because they find in them all of those
attributes which make for constant and
enduring service, and complete satisfaction
in the highest degree.
The illustration shows a choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perfor-
ated Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
22/6, 251- in Black or Tan.
POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
Write for a copy of our catalog.
&
m
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“F.II.”: With all its frills on the fore-
shore, its flash pavilions, its song-and-giggle
palaces, and its continual rushing into print
about itself, St. Kilda (Vic.) still remains
uncivilised in a very important particular—
to wit, the provision of sufficient dressing-
places for open-sea bathers. As a result of
this neglect, three young men were fined at
the local court the other morning. When
the police arrived the disporters were drying
themselves in a hollow —“the best place we
could get to,” as one of the lads explained.
The numerous expensive side-shows whirl on
their way under the approving eye of the St.
Kilda fathers, and there is a good income
therefrom for the municipal coffers. But
that benignant eye flashes ominously when,
either at the police-court or in the press,
any suggestion is made for the extension of
the present miserable provision for people
who would sooner do a healthy dash into the
sea than sit stuffily around in chairs, watch-
ing other people do things.
The other Tuesday in Melbourne the glass
rose within a lick of 107° in the shade, and
a drought-stricken swaggie, sitting against
a pub wall in St. Kilda, crackling
like a sun-dried lamb-skin, watched five rich,
fat barrels of beer being rolled into the dark
depths of the cellar. When the job was
accomplished, he pointed to the gleaming
sky. “They say that’s Heaven,” he said.
He pointed into the black cellar. “They say
that’s Hell,” said he. “Well, here goes!”
And he dived, head foremost, into the cellar.
Results: one broken arm, one broken collar-
bone, and a hospital bed.
TtfalCe aTfote ofWhy
DUNLOP TYRES
Give the Best Service
THE CASING.—The Strength and Quality of the Canvas used in.
Dunlop Motor Cycle Covers ensures you freedom from bursts and
annoying tyre troubles. Ample strength is
embodied in every cover we issue to carry you
thousands of miles over the roughest of roads.
THE RUBBER TREAD—OnIy the highest grade
Rubber is used—and plenty of it. Light-
weight covers will not stand up to hard
riding on our roads. That’s why
“Dunlops” are so popular amongst
motor cyclists—ample rubber is provided
to guarantee you a big mileage.
WORKMANSHIP. Our reputation
depends on this, and as we endeavour
to make every tyre we issue a standing
advertisement—you get the benefit.
THEREFORE REMEMBER
IT PAYS TO USE “DUNLOPS.”
Stocked by all Leading Agents in
“GROOVED,” “STUDDED,”
“RIBBED” and “LOZENGE”
Patterns. Lists on Application
* M M
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
. Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane, Wellington & Christchurch <
&
A
JHC
. . „


“3-in-One”
Oil
KEEPS EVERYTHING
SPIC AND SPAN !
It prevents rust or tarnish on
metal surfaces indoors or out.
Pdishes finest woodwork. Cleans
glassware. Lubricates perfectly
the most delicate mechanism.
Saves wear and tear at friction-
points.
Adds years of life to Musical
Instruments, Bicycles, Firearms,
Furniture, Typewriters, Saddlery,
Tools and all light Machi cry.
“Three-in-Qnc 'O'l
is free from grease, acid cr d..a.i.
It is highly refined.
Invaluable for general use. On
sale everywhere.
Free Sample Bottle and
“Three-in-One” Oil
Booklet on request.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
82 I. HARRIS ST.. WELLINGTON. N.Z.
10- MtuVw M*
OCEANMORE,
” Bondi,
Sydney.
OPPOSITE SWIMMING BATHS.
A delightful sojourn for the holiday seeker,
’mid sparkling seas, foamy surf and mighty
crags. Twenty minutes from city. Terms,
from 55/- weekly. ’Phone G 69, Wavcrley.
(Mrs.) T. G. PHILLIPS.
An
error
of
200
yards
&
u
ALPINE GOAT
In hilly country or over
water, an error of 200
yards in judging distance
is frequent.
The difference between the use of the
30-30 or 30-40 cartridge and the Ross .280
high velocity using the special Ross
Cartridge with copper tube expanding
bullet, patented, is well illustrated in
ĥ
ibis sketch of a shot
aimed at 500 yards, when
the correct distance was
300. The 14 inch rise of
the 30-30 or the 30-40
misses the goat where
the Ross .280 not only
hits but anchors the
.. game. The Ross .280
sporting cartridge with copper tube
bullet (patented) thanks to its wonderful
explosive properties—will stop any large
game it hits fairly.
If your dealer cannot show one, write
direct ter catalogue and full information
to 8-13-A
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada.
“CAZIMI” Cream
Prepared and Packed in Russia.
Unrivalled for removal of Freckles,
Sunburn, or dryness of skin resulting
from sea bathing, motoring, or ex-
posure to sun or wind.
In great demand throughout Europe
by the elite of society for its benefi-
cial effect on the skin.
4 6
From ali Chemists, Stores
JAR. or Toilet Parlors.
Two other delicately-perfumed, valu-
able Toilet Preparations :: —
CAZIMI SOAP 1/6 Tablet
CAZIMI POWDER. . 1/6, 3/6 Box
Wholesale Depot-
-526 Collins Street, flelbourne.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF! 1
j look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
ħ
h
T'-IK Australian Magazine—TllE
* HAND. The National Montlib .
X.ONJ2
Price, Gil.
11l
TSS
<*#
When the customer
says
“CHARGE IT!’
She gets the goods.
Do YOU get a
proper record ?
The failure to charge
goods sold on credit is
one of the greatest
sources of loss in a retail shop.
With a National Cash Register you
are as sure of getting a correct record of
charge sales as your customers are of
getting the goods.
o o o
Write for booklet giving further infor-
mation.
THE NATIONAL GASH REGISTER COMPANY
of Australasia, Limited,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
BRANCHES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
r
-SrS-
<*s
llhos’sojw^
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
OVER 1000 TONS OF LEMONS
have been used in the manufacture
of “ Lem os,” and it is now sold almost
all over the world.
“ The Best of their
kind on Earth ! ” .
—an American’s Compliment
to the World-famous
MOSGIEL
RUGS
THE RUG DE LUXE
Obtainable at ali
the Best Shops.
[1
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
ĥ
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
JZy
Calvert’s
n&oth fonder
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F, C. Calvert & Co.,Manchester,Eng.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
; I
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must clear 3’our land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write: —
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
The Inky Way.
“Nemo”: Jim Middleton, of the Melbourne
Herald, is dead; and two generations of pressmen
whom he saw grow up in the office have lost a dear
old friend. He had been 40 years on the staff. The
first to recognise his many talents as a newspaper
man was the late S. V. Winter, a fine judge of a
pressman’s worth, though no writer himself. Tor
many years—away in the 70’s and 80’s of last cen-
tury—-Middleton was sub-editor and leader of the
reporting staff. He wasn’t a brilliant writer either ;
but he knew a good thing when he saw it, and he
knew how things ought to be done. Jim was a
native of Tasmania. He began his newspaper career
on the' Geelong Advertiser, worked afterwards at
Ballarat, and then went to Melbourne, first to the
Age, but soon to the Herald, where he continued
with but one brief break (spent in the Western
district) until ill-health drove him out a year ago.
Among a multitude of such things he “did” for the
Herald the famous prizefight at Albury between
Abe Hicken and Larry Foley, and he saw the execu-
tion of Ned Kelly in Melbourne Gaol.
The most dreadful recent performance of the prin-
ter’s devil happened in Adelaide the other day, when
the report of a wedding was tangled up with the
opening of a maternity home, and the first baby was
accused of arriving almost before the bride had
time to get out of the beautiful crepe-de-Chine cos-
tume she was alleged to be wearing.
* * * *
The two Charleville papers have been having no
sort of luck whatsoever. Last July the Guardian,
the Labor organ of Western Queensland, was com-
pletely wiped out by fire, and the Times, the Liberal
joint, a few doors away, was cut through to stop
the flames. The Times then installed a complete
lot of new machinery. But its luck was still out;
another blaze caught it on a recent Saturday night
and turned it into ashes and twisted iron and
barbed language.
* * * *
“Copy Bov”: In Ben Iloare, who is about to
retire from his job as chief leader-writer, the Mel-
bourne Age will lose its finest political thunderer.
For the past 30 years Ben has been the principal
exponent of the paper’s policy, and has rarely ex-
perienced any difficulty in reconciling the views of
the Age of to-day with the very different views of
the Age before yesterday. Ben has the useful gift
of being able to persuade himself into almost any-
thing, but he drew the line when his organ started
its campaign of opposition to Andrew Fisher’s refer-
endum proposals. Originally a Freetrader, he saw
the error of his ways, and became one of the staunch-
est and best-informed Protectionists in Australia.
He gave up the editorship of the Geelong Times
(his first wife, by the way, was a daughter of one
of the proprietors) to join the old Melbourne Daily
Telegraph, and from the ’Graph passed to the
service of Syme. Before he had travelled far on the
track he was guilty of a book of poems called
“Figures of Fancy,” but he has lived that down.
* * * *
“Harrison 0.”: George, who was a sub-editor when
he wasn’t out with his best girl, insisted upon getting
married ; or his girl insisted upon it, I am not sure
which. That was bad enough; but George went
further and made it a personal matter that some of
the boys should witness his rash act. It was cer-
tainly sad that Alfred, who was best man, should
have forgotten himself so far as to arrive in the con-
dition he did. But then Alfred was more used to
slaughtering copy than assisting at marriages. Still,
he did nothing extra until midway through the long-
winded oration whieh the parson perpetrated when
he had finished the only part of his job that mat-
tered. Then swaying towards the reverend gentle-
man Alfred observed in severe tones: “Shay, ole
fell’r, keep it down; half a col’mn ove’set already.”
* * * *
A Canadian statesman named McEvoy is earnestly
advocating the popular election of editors to thus
and otherwise bring newspapers under public control.
McEvoy argues that practically all legislative bodies
are now governed in their actions and proceedings by
the ideas, suggestions and recommendations of the
Press. That being so, “in order to place the senti-
ments voiced in the Press for the guidance of legis-
lators beyond suspicion,” an elective system is de-
sirable, so that the public may control writers and
“make certain that subjects of public importance are
not written up solely from a Party standpoint.”
But, if the editors are to guide the legislators, why
elect legislators at all? Why not make one job of it,
and. after electing the editors, give their leading
articles the force of law?
IN THE MATTER OF RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pleasant words that mark our joys
Move tingling down the track of time,
We couple them like girls and boys,
And when one makes a happy noise
The other finds the rhyme.
My herd of nouns and adjectives
I foster with especial care;
I know where each smart pronoun lives,
And where each sunny adverb gives
Its sweetness to the air.
I love to wander in the spring,
Where some blue verb has built its nest;
To hear the wild subjunctive sing,
Or mark the future-perfect fling
Its music of unrest.
All tripping through the maze of song
The happy lads and lasses go
In laughing pairs, a dainty throng,
Moving to measures short or long
On deft, melodious toe.
They cross and swing and make exchange
Of blushing partners as they fly,
And here and there some maiden strange
From bush or scrub or mountain range
Leaps in with flashing eye.
Or pairs that Shelley never knew,
That Wordsworth never tried to mate,
I lead in from the midnight dew
Where all apart, unknown, they grew
And teach them to gyrate.
The scroll of poets is complete,
So one declared in older time,
But verse still moves on dainty feet,
And present songsters strive to beat
The past at least in rhyme.
And, truth to tell, it is not hard
To give those kings of metre points;
The work of each tremendous bard
With ragged ends of sound is scarred,
And goes with creaky joints.
But my close-wedded jingles trip
In combinations strange and new,
While like the kiss of glass and lip
The rhymes into their places slip
By dimpled two and two.
Yes, and when giddy grows the round,
And language with the tune goes mad,
The coat and waistcoat of a sound
May whirl a lame thought from the ground,
And make it not too bad.
For while the beer of earth is wet,
And Cissy wears her eyes of blue,
The moons of song shall rise and set,
And every striving rhyme-smith sweat
His soul for something new.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


■
r '
w
iiiSfiiaaifc
■<**
V
/ r 1
i n
■>:
if *
wi-'4
I
mm
% 1
* \ 1
«
ur*. *
&
;w/
J
«*
«MIUWWW"
1. : If:
v f*
».*
K
iP
iM |
K
s*
«•
H
«
Jt
MMI
11
/
.... .... ■ . •»••• •■, i .-.
as
§»
mm
r-
m
11
%
sur
h
Copyright.
“ FIRST AND FOREMOST ”
REPRODUCED FROM THE ORIGINAL PAINTING IN THE POSSESSION OF
JOHN DEWAR SONS, L TD Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth C# Loildon


b
sc
S
o
l
n-
» 7
f
or
V
A>
v>*. i -
'OAUv
&
■XT
V f S*>
v)
tHg;
hot
ge
a
n
f\A
m
{4*j
-<fcj
o
yl/W/
i
m
rn
m
e
a
*-• /
fo
ste
u
rs
V
<S'
<'A,.
< o
Ist
b
O)
?Pri:
e
e
R
KnZ
r %J I]
/
es
rs/;
'O/'
ia
tfv
<afi'
43
ss
,vtne' vc ry ijiki.
fearid{
tk^UXlk:^
m.
0>
te
easy
3$
t
in
ervice
»-
H
r
jp
isr
SS
;• A^i
*
2n/
n
/ym
*■ a/ «.-//•%:
V
■ vr
■•jy.'i
ampnle^i
en
S'
RJS«
BefoV
ct
too
o
rvi
up
V I
fs
"II
Am
N
RTH
&
MELB.
Vi. T
450
YOU WILL BE ENVIED
FOR MILES AROUND—
if you become the happy possessor of so elegant
and so melodious an instrument as is illustrated
here.
From everywhere folk will gather and listen won-
deringly while you play the masterpieces of operas,
song and music by this realistic medium.
There is a real attraction in
HIS MASTER’S VOICE’
GRAMOPHONES.
—the tone appeals at once to the cultured taste.
The “Oak Junior Grand’’ is, among Gramophones,
what the “Baby Grand” is among Pianos—a pos-
session that wins admiration and approval for a
lifetime.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLETS gratis on applica-
tion to the Company. If you do not know address
of most convenient dealer, write us for it and for
complete lists of Instruments and Records.
The Oak
Junior
Grand,
£lB 15s.
Sole Concessionaires for
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
You know it by this
“His Masters Voice*
ON TNE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
7th to 15th APRIL, 1914,
£7OOO PRIZES £7OOO
En tries Close :
Export Butter
Wines
Horses
Cattle
Sheep & Pigs
Poultry
March 2
March 3
March 7
March 9
March 9
March 10
Dogs March 12
Agriculture & Dairy Pro-
duce March 13
Women’s Industries . . . March 14
Coachbuilding and Mis-
cellaneous March 16
Prize Schedules
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
and ENTRY FORMS POSTED
ON APPLICATION.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ħ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
3CRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Gennlne without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h
WINCHESTER
A
MODEL 1892
RIFLES
for Australian Game
The Winchester Model
1892 Rifle in .25. .32. .38'
or .44 Calibre is an ideal
g'un for hunting' Australian
game. This rifle is light in
weig'ht, easy to operate,
and shoots accurately.
The cartridges which it
handles are very popular
everywhere, and particu-
larly well adapted for Aus-
tralian hunting. If you
don’t own one. it’s time
that you did.
PRICE.
20In. Barrel. 60/- ■24 to. Barrel. 62/6
AlcocK & Pierce,
318 Little Collins St.. Melbourne
Catalogues Free
mi
m
mm
I??*
i
ĥ
A SURE MOUSTACHE GROWER.
A smart moustache enhances the appearance of every man, and there is
nothing helps to develop a splendid hair growth on the upper lip like
CAPILLARINE.
This preparation gives good results always. No matter how thin or stubby
the hair, a regular use of Capillarine will develop a splendid moustache.
Apply at night before retiring—it will not harm the skin, and it cannot
be detected in use.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY. PRICE 10/6 Jar. Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
“Jean Sibi”: The last time I saw Irving Sayles in
an audience was at the opening (matinee) perform-
ance of Sousa’s band at the Melbourne Glaciarium.
He was reclining against one of the pillars of the
tabernacle with a shrill green grasshopper sort of
cap pulled over his eyes and about half a pound of
rank Havana cremating in the cave that he used
to vociferate with. Several of his neighbors, who
were not offended by the fumes, found amusement in
the black’s lavish appreciation of the animated Yank
on the conductor’s stand. One of the attendants
however, took a severe view of the tobacco rite, as
if it were some sort of blasphemous frivolity at
divine worship. “Mr. Sayles, you can’t smoke here,”
he whispered. Sayles was completely upset. “Not
smoke hyah! Why,” he said, pointing to the agi-
tated Sousa, “he don’t mind! He’s a countryman
o’ mine.”
Australia saw almost the last of Gende as a
dancer. _ She is going to take her wonderful toes
into retirement at the end of April when she has
completed an engagement at London Colosseum. Her
old admirers are working up a farewell presentation.
Pavlova, the great Russian leaper, has contributed
to the testimonial fund, and will take part in the
valedictory performance.
“Norbell”: William F. Hawtre.v, comedian, who
has taken his final curtain-call in N’York, was an old
Eton boy, the son of a master at that high-toned
seminary; therefore, he was “good old Bill” to
Governors and other potentates when he toured
in Australia. “Command” nights were fre-
quent, and Bill was a feature at various
Guv’ment ’Ouses. But, above all things, Bill
was an ardent cricketer. His first question, when
engaging a mummer, was not, “Can you act?” but
“Can you bowl ?” He took a good side of cricketer-
comedians through Maoriland, playing about three
all-day matches every week as a side-line to the
evening performance of “Mars.” Once he cut out
a town altogether so that the co. might stay an extra
day in Wellington and wallop the pads off the Pol-
lards. Altogether, a good sport, and a much better
actor than business man.
Herbert Myers, who for years was associated with
his uncle, F. H. Pollock, in the management of Adel-
aide Royal, and is now local manager for the Wil-
liamson firm, announces the reconstruction of the
old house. Tallis and Meynell have been inspecting
it, and find that tinkering would be waste of time.
Walls and stage will remain, but the auditorium will
be rebuilt to wipe out some of the bars and at
least one shop on the Ilindley-street frontage. The
Chapman estate, owners of the freehold, last week
obtained a Supreme Court order authorising a fresh
lease on the necessary terms, and the work is already
going strong, the idea being to re-open on Easter
Saturday.
Re the case of Ruth Nevin v. Peurl Wilkerson
(which was settled out of court), a lot of Melbourne
people Would like to hear the “insulting words,”
alleged to have been hurled at the principal boy of
“The Land of Nod” by the “producer” of that
strangely witless extravaganza. Also, they would
like to know whether the lady answered Peurl Wil-
kerson back. No member of the “Land of Nod”
company seems to merit such severe disapproval as
the person responsible for the performance of the
piece in its present form at the King’s (Melb.).
The foolish dialogue could so easily be strengthened
and brightened. The poor little situations are so
crudely arranged. The action is so very lacking in
snap. Of all the individuals on the job the “pro-
ducer” seems to invite the most unfavorable criti-
cism.
“Gazer”: Apropos “Circle’s” plea for harassed
critics. An expensive mummer some little time avo was
cracke'd up in Melbourne almost to gushing point.
But, of course, even that didn't anywhere near satisfy
her. She, therefore, burst in on the amiable sub.
of a leading daily, tearfully denounced the morning’s
“notice,” and ended by putting her head on a pillow
of “copy” and doing a hearty weep. The sub. was
distressed to the extent of writing a huge free puff,
and all would have gone well if another member of
the staff hadn’t come along and recollected hearing
of at least half a dozen similar gratis performances
in other news-shops! So the weeper lost her puff
paragraph through being the old angel who couldn’t
learn new tricks —which animal is no relation at all
to the old dog that travelled on the hard road.
“C. Ockney” : Several daily news-sheets in London
earn a dishonest halfpenny by the cheap device of
getting actors and actorines, more or less known, to
fill their columns with their views on subjects selec-
ted by the wily editor. The Daily Sketch, owned
by the horsey Hulton, has recently been playing this
game. It asked metropolitan mummers what they
considered the best acting seen on the London stage
in 1913. The bait took, and lots of space was given
to the answers—Laurence Irving’s performance in
“Typhoon” taking the biscuit, by the way. But a
well-deserved snub was forthcoming from ex-actor
Squire Bancroft, who wrote: “It is the business of
the newspapers to tell us what has been the finest
acting of the year, not for us to tell the news-
papers.” By the way, how could mummers see and
criticise all the acting of the year? Are they all
unemployed ?
“Busker”: Melbourne has no outstanding Dramatic
Club, except Gregan McMahon’s. Formerly they
were plentiful as rabbits. The Histrionic was the
most toffy, including Levey, Bruce, Fox and Philp.
A Press Club brought forth Whitworth, Walstab,
Collier, Roberts, etc. The Garrick was of weighty
calibre, having Ireland, Batten, Bagster, Banks,
Biers and Jack Bunster —Busy B’s. There was a
swell club in Fitzroj% with young fellows after-
wards well known in city life, such as three Gaun-
sons, Emmerton, Miller, Pollard, Lyons, Serrell and
Phillips. A rival was the Tradesmen’s Club, which
gave such performances as “Luke, the Laborer,” and
“Rory O’More.” Zox acted with the Oddfellows’
Club. A club which hung out its shingle in the
theatre opposite Melbourne Hospital, variously known
as the Prince of Wales and the Lyceum, included
Finnamore, Hodson, Mansergh and Metcalfe. The
last two became well-known actors. The Printers’
Club included S. V. Winter, McCarron and Alderman
Brenan. The Melbourne Elocution Society gave good
costume performances, with such as levers, Moloney,
Toohey, Hughes, Powell, Romanis, Campbell, etc.
Prahran has had several clubs, the best-known per-
formers being Scot Inglis, afterwards a brilliant pro-
fessional, and Dudley. The Dagonets held up strongly
for a while. The boss amateur performance was
that of “The Merchant of Venice,” by members of
Parliament.
THE FRUGAL PRO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We were a noble company,”
The piquant low comedian said.
(He stood just under five feet three,
With upshot hair upon his head.)
“In New South Wales we did the smalls
From Bibbenluke to Nymagee.
My friends, my senses it appalls
To think how dreadful biz can be.
“We had a roomy caravan,
But out beyond the Seven Elves
For food we sold the horse, and ran
The lumbering yellow van ourselves.”
Then spake the tragic actor chap,
With sad old eyes, and that lean sag
Of neck a dewlap called: “Mayhap
’Twere better far to eat the nag.
“When I have played with little fuss
In wayback barn and shingle hut,
And Fate has been unkind to us,
I oft have killed my neddy ; but
When we’d devoured a single course,
We pickled the remainder. Cull,
That’s wisest if you wish your horse
To go as far as possible.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
For the Country Horseman
Tito saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for eoiintr\ use. for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends, are red wiring such a saddle they will find
!h:s a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds rears of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the , weather. It has a
deep, “sweepv” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
irn stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
pnee complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
iwr.r/ETiN when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle, will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 3SB Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN C OR MILK »
*****
L®UCHS. ENOJ^
Firmly established
• in Australia •
Horlick’s Malted Milk, the
Health Food-Drink,ha* thous-
ands of staunch supporters
in the Commonwealth. Being
made of the purest Cream-
milk and Cereals evaporated
to a fine powder, it is ready
for immediate use and needs
no cooking.
It builds up body and brain,
and gives health and strength
to all ages, dt is the most
easily digested Food-Drink
ever produced, and its effects
on your health are immediate
and lasting.
No change of climate
affects it, and it is ideal for
use in Australia.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Get Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCKS
HALTED MILK
Kriischen
Salts
Now sold by Chemists throughout the commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, Olarenca Street, SYDNEY.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
O II
I r
V-#)
Right to the Tick f
You wIH save
Time c- Money
by carrying an
"px«”R
WATCH.
Gent/s Full-sized
Open Face Oxidised
Steel Lever Watch,
with 15
Jewels,
33/-
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.
11 12 1
2
3
9
4
8
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
3s
ST/
SK
aa
I
RsS
‘X: S
I
Ll
A Favorite the World Around.
Full octagon barrel, 24in., .22, .25, or
.32 calibre.
Automatic ejector in .22 calibre.
The FAVORITE RIFLE No. 27
For Sale by all Dealers in the Com-
monwealth.
Latest Rifle and Shotgun Catalogs and full
information supplied by
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL
COMPANY, C.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [3
There is none “ just as good ’’—therefore insist on a
PIEPER BAYARD AUTOMATIC PISTOL.
h
ĥ
One Model
In three
Calibres
(25
32
1380
All Parts
Warranted.
Write
To be had of all Storekeepers, Gunsmiths and Merchants.
W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklet, post free.
AH! THAT’S GOOD —-IT’S A “PLUM”!
\-
X\
The full measure of shaving satisfaction is experienced by the man
who uses
A PLUM RAZOR 10 6.
Every time and all the time the blade of a Plum cuts clear and
clean —without that tearing which is experienced when inferior razors
are used. .
Made of the best silver steel —tempered to perfection, the “PLUM”
is the delight of those who like comfort in the morning shave.
It keeps a keen edge for an indefinite period, and is therefore always
available for a satisfactory shave.
GET A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
We pay postage and guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two
years free of charge. •
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a very handsome
present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY•
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
When Weaning Baby
The Best Food to give is
The ‘Allenburys’ Milk Food No. 1.
On the addition of water as directed, it forms'an accurately estimated
humanised milk, and may be given alternately with the natural food
without fear of upsetting the child or causing digestive disturbance.
Weaning can therefore proceed gradually with comfort both to mother
and child. Farinaceous foods should not be given at this time.
Foods
Allen & Hanburys Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND, and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
A Profitable Market
and How to Secure It
GRICULTURAL SETTLEMENT in
Western Australia has created a magni-
ficent market for Manufacturers in Eastern
Australia.
The STATISTICAL REGISTER reveals
the fact that Western Australia is a big
buyer of everything required by the Farmer
and the Pastoralist.
The DEMAND FOR EVERYTHING
appertaining to Agriculture is great and
growing.
The FARMERS and SETTLERS’ ASSO-
CIATION OF WESTERN AUSTRLIA, in
conference assembled, adopted the Perth
Sunday Times as the Official Medium of
the Association, because, as it explained:—
“For every one copy of any other news-
paper seen in the Homes of Farmers and
Settlers you see seven or eight copies of
The Sunday Times.”
The Sunday Times has the largest
circulation in the State, and makes a.special-
ity of ministering to the requirements of the
Primary Producer.
IT IS NOT POSSIBLE to reach the Far-
mers and Settlers of Western Australia with-
out the Perth Sunday Times.
IT IS POSSIBLE to appeal to all the Far-
mers and Settlers in Western Australia
through one Newspaper, the Farmers and
Settlers’ Medium — The Sunday Times,
By its piquant personal note, its patriotic
political lead, its independence, enterprise
and command of exclusive information,
The Sunday Times has secured the
LARGEST CIRCULATION in the State,
and has become the BIGGEST NEWS-
PAPER published in the BRITISH
EMPIRE.
Advertising Rates on application at
Head Office, Perth, and all Reputable
Agencies throughout Australia.
A BAD LEG
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
“Some time ago I suffered intense
pain in my leg. For one week it was
terrible. A friend recommended
SOLOMON SOLUTION, so I got a jar. Ever
since using it I have had no return of
that excruciating pain ; it certainly
suited my case MARVELLOUSLY. I am
57 and take long walks, so you can
believe I feel myself cured. I have re-
commended it to two of my friends
who have also greatly benefited by it.”
(Sgd.) Mrs. E. A. C. Payne
Budgeree, via Boolarra,
.South Gif>ps'and.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists
and Storekeepers post free for 3/- from.
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
L.R.W.
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes yOur engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, Oil.


Shipping;.
P.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
‘Twin Screw. All Fitted witn W JU'tSICSSiS JLCiCgI .
tTntending passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne; John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORAMA
ORVIETO
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
OPHIU
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Mahtw Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Held Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at H% on the first £3OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
TiiJt
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A J
THYNNE. M.L.C.
General Manager: ,1. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St.V'E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED. o ,
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.')
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) . . . . £1,195,446
RESERVE FUND £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets. svdney
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to' June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors — Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C.,. Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretan
Shipping;.
TVT orddeutscher lloyd. k.d.l.
IMPERIAL mail steamers.
T0 S Ki S I EZ i NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
aii Wien wiieiess jnstanaxion.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-: 11., £4O;
m„ £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO.. General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
T(TSAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGTT BOOKINGS to any parfc of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
♦Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LINC.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
a. 141 uiucr. j vury.
+Calls at Hobart. Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return bv Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways); £B2' (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
t lass Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
n,OPARINS on upper and bridge decks.
lIIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, tiro., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).'
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Feb. 28.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 4
Leaves Sydney March 7
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Melbourne March 11.
Leaves Sydney March 14.
For
MELBOURNE
)
(Transhipping foi*
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Feb. 28
CANBERRA (8000 tons).
Leaves Sydney March 7.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
NEW STEAMER—
“ MORINDA,”
MARCH 9.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, Samarai, Woodlark
Island and Yule Island.
£2O.
ħ
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “Makambo,”
APRIL 1.
Calling at about 80 Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
£25-
BURNS, PMILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOIJTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
1
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350.000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaurin, r\.c., m.I.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; AVilliam Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London."
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Gotten. Esq Chairman.
lion. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Ceneral Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Rranches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference .Shares .. • • •• 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. . . • . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS ZtmSS &
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ,'S
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up .. .. .. ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock) .. 76,500
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. • n
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10.000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
VENTURA
SONOMA ..
- • I Mar. 7 j Mav 2 | June 27 I Any. 22
►. I April 4 May 30 July 25 i Sept. 19
tr 'P *° England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■[■HE North Steam
Navigation Co* Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — s
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
n^ B^ CCA \ MACLE AY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
- HARBOR •'-and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tigljets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
tp include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’
there connecting with one’ of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vicG-vevsa
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail* and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Cd.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer; £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire insurances
effected on all classes of
Bdildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks..
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINEEY, Manager.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARTDDA (7713
tons), Wednesday,
March 4 and April 1.
T.S.S. WANT>ILLA(77SS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
March 14 and April 11.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINCIvA, Feb. 28
WOLLOWRA, March 7.
MARLOO, March 14.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-
luxe en suite. Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
tSiiils 10 a.m. Monday, April 6.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA COLOMBO AND SUEZ CANAL.)
T.S. S. SHROPSHIRE.
12,500 Tons. CAPTAIN PRENTICE..
BRISBANE
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
MARCH 7, 1914.
MARCH 18, 1914.
MARCH 24, 1914.
APRIL 1, 1914.
Saloon. Third-Class. .
Fares to London: £4O to £45. £l4/14/-to £lB/18/-
<Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck amidships, in-
cluding Lounge and Smoke Room. Well-lighted and
ventilated Cabins and spacious Decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
Chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Hvddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
"Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDARt PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
MACNIVEN & CAMERON LR
M GULDEN WATTLE,”
£'• EDINBURGH,
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FUNDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


Ilotels. &c.
M
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND "COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Get the Pen that
regulates its ink
flow-Fast or Slow
The Onoto. A simple
turn of the “ head ”
regulates the flow
of ink exactly as you
want it. Another
“ turn ” renders the
Onoto a sealed tube
in your pocket,
so that it cannot
possibly leak.
Onoto
Self-Filling * *
Safety Fountain
Pen
Price 12/- and upwards of all Stationers,
Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet about
the Onoto Pen free on application to
Thomas de la Rue & Co., Ltd.,
194 Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the
Australasian Representatives, Norman
Baker and Longhurst, 50 York Street,
Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
—Best for all pens.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
mm®
j||
V
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
i ... TRY THE ... 4
rr>
ft
u
lEZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
h
Bank of BustraUa
> SYDNEY
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or forwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business Of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
N.S.W. Branch Office : BERESFORD CHAMBERS, 30 CASTLEREAGH STREET
(top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals mav be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELT, Dwptt Governor February, 1911,. DENISON MILLER, Govkrnor
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, liberal Hand Daws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. niESTON, Local Director.
Picture Showmen
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
ĥ
ħ
The Silent
Empire Bioscope
and the
Kelvin Electric
Generating Sets
are unbeatable.
It is our business —and pleasure—to intro-
duce these machines to you.
The Empire is built of Steel —a Special
Steel —that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS—Engine and Dynamo direct coupled—stand alone in the Picture World.
We have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted with
wheels. The Engine is Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiency. Send for our
Booklet on these Machines.
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested?
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
DINNEFORD’S
Magnesia
h
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout;
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
■The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
PANICS’
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look here, this “Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of fine
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter. -»
Other Styles from
15/- to 40/-
ft
SfaSil
' SSI
'
i
Wa
The Hoqse
for Mowers
and
Windmills.
JOHN BANKS & SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST STOBJES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
ABBEY
SHOES
are so perfect in every respect that
it is a pleasure to wear them.
The illustration shows the highest-
grade Tan Willow Calf Bal.,
27/6 and 30/- Also in Glace
Kid, 25/-, 27/6, 30/-. In
highest-grade Box Calf, 30/-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Deaf People
Hear Whispers
With Common-Sense Ear Drums—
“ Wireless ’Phones for the Ears.”
For twenty years the Common-Sense
Ear Drums have been giving good hear-
ing to hundreds ot' thousands of deaf
people. Every condition of deafness or
defective hearing is being
helped and cured, such as
Catarrhal Deafness, Relaxed
or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing
Sounds, Perforated or Parti-
ally I)estroyed Drums, Drums
wholly Destroyed, Discharge
from Ears. No matter how
long standing the case may
be, there is hope of good hear-
ing for all the afflicted deaf.
ħ
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of soft,
sensitised material, comfortable and safe to
wear. They are out of sight when worn, and
easily adjusted by wearer.
Good hearing brings cheerfulness, comfort and
sunshine into the life of the lonely deaf. The
total cost is £l—why not order to-day?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair ot
Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Addresg
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note.
If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must
register it.
V
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all cases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 vears.
Made and sold by ANDREW kfURPIIY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/- PER BOX, or a COURSE
of 8 BOXES £l, Post Free.
... U . j ■j - - •
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and Store*
keepers throughout the States.


h
STURDY
STATION SHIRTS.
\onr shirts for working in will
give you longer service if you get
them at Pike Brothers, Limited,
l'hey will meet with your expecta-
tions and realise your wishes in
every respect.
h asliioned from strong, soft canvas,
made with the conventional turn-
down collar, with treble clips and
useful pocket.
STRIPED PATTERNS.
5/- each, or 28/6 half-dozen.
Send for one to try first.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
M U \ e , blood > thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, 10}d.
anc * 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result—
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NFF.DED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANALAND
Charles Evans, Queensland’s railway boss,
is just out of a Sydney hospital, where he
has been overhauled. He is the second
“ranker” to climb to the top of his State’s
railway service, his predecessor, Thallon,
being the other. But, whereas Thallon began
as a porter in Scotland, Evans is locally
grown and learned his business in Queens-
land. Most of his time has been spent in
the North, where the white man can’t work,
because his brains boil over in the climate.
From the North he was brought South as
offsider to Thallon, and succeeded him as
Commissioner when the bluff old boy went
over. Evans has left the repair-shop just
in time to take a hand in celebrating the
jubilee of the Queensland railways.
“McNorth”: Since the Federal Govern-
ment has refused to establish a much-needed
meteorological station in North Queensland,
the people concerned (and that is everyone
from Rockhampton upwards) have decided
to take the trouble in both hands and start
a concern of their own at Townsville or
Cairns. Certainly it’s time something was
done, as the present method of sending warn-
ings over vast distances from the probable
scene of the trouble is farcical when the
lines are down and the information is re-
quired in a hurry. And for about four
months in the year the warnings are re-
quired in a hurry. The N.Q. coast is quite
intricate enough for navigation in fine
weather; but when a large passenger ship
gets off the track in a maze of reefs, with a
hurricane blowing through its whiskers, the
place is plain Sheol. The existence of a
weather bureau in or near the region of
probable disturbances will greatly reduce the
danger, as prompt warnings can be given of
the approach and direction of the devasta-
tion. The proposed station is to be main-
tained by public subscription for one year; it
is hoped that the Federal Government will
then feel quite ashamed of itself, and take
the thing over, and graft it on to the Com-
monwealth concern.
Hied at Brisbane on February 12, James
Ilexton, allegedly for some time past the
oldest living white native of Queensland.
James wasn’t a great traveller; it took him
81 years to get from where he was born—a
little cottage that stood where the G.P.O. is
now—to the General Hospital. There the
climate cut his life short at an early age.
Ilexton’s father was a lieutenant in the
Navy, and fought under Nelson at Tra-
falgar. Afterwards he was the first pilot
to be stationed in Moreton Bay.
The last of the original Alice River
settlers has sold the final cow, banked the
last sovereign, and gone for a holiday. Bar-
ing Bananaland’s great shearing strike of
’9l. a party of shearers decided to give up
stripping the jumbuck and go on the land.
Accordingly a co-operative settlement was
formed on the Alice River. From the start
it had its ups and downs, and when the
downs got too persistent and the ups too
infrequent its numbers dwindled. Finally
one Quantrill saw the rest out. and now lie
has sold off and left, with a small fortune to
reward him for his constancy.
THE COW PROBLEM AGAIN.
COCKY: "It's true enough what they say about a man's troubles beginning when he gets
married."
BOUNDARY RIDER: "Ok ! Cheer up, old man. They'll all come in useful token they
grow up."
Bananaland’s unique fighting parson Sams
has gone back to the Fog, which will pro-
bably choke him after the free air of the
mulga and the saltbush. Still in one way
he’s hardly to be blamed: of late he could
hardly get a taker when, after the sermon,
he produced two pairs of gloves and invited
his bush congregation to put on one pair.
At Sams’s services many a good fight has
been witnessed for the small sum of three-
pence.
“Coolibah” from Bundaberg:—
On a recent afternoon the local Chamber of Com-
merce, aldermen and other citizens of girth went to
a Ideal foundry to' observe the casting of a lid for
one of the triple effets of Bingara Sugar Mill. The
“trips” are enormbus vertical pots, wherein the cane
juice undergoes a partial evaporation. The piece of
ironmongery weighed several tons, and is 13 feet in
diameter. The Bundaberg foundry specialises in
sugar-milling machinery, just as Walkers, of Mary-
borough, specialises in loco, and other engines and
mining plant; and there are others which have
built up almost as high and wide a reputation in
other branches of the engineering business. Yet the
Queensland Tory Cabinet buys even its tugs and pilot
boats in Scotland, and its dredges and iron bridges
ip Germany. Also its new Central Sugar Mills are
being built in England. It isn’t that we can’t do
the work; the simple explanation is that a large
industrial population is not considered “desirable.”
Next time I find old Desirable out by himself after
dark I will kill him.
“Wul Mul”: “Peter Culex” having told
the story of those two great tinted swim-
mers, Douglas Pitt and his wife (B.
1/1/’l4), I will now proceed to give the
facts. Peter said (1) that when the pearl-
ing fleets were blown to Kingdom Corne by a
cyclone some years agone in Princess Char-
lotte Bay, the pair and their baby were cap-
sized into the water from their overturned
cutter and started to swim to Barrow Point,
19 miles away > (2) that Mrs. Pitt carried
the baby, and, after 16 miles had been left
astern, added her collapsed husband to the
cargo; (3) that John Douglas, the then
Government Resident on Thursday Island,
gave the lady a medal commemorating the
swim. As a matter of mere, bald fact, the
distance swum was 25 miles. Pitt, instead
of being supported by his missus, supported
her as much as he could, and when the child
died he continued to carry the dead body so
that the mother should not know her loss
and have her strength further reduced by
grief and shock. Finally, it was not Mrs.
Pitt who received the John Douglas medal,
but her sister, who was conspicuous in life-
saving during the same cyclone. I don’t
think there is anything else that requires
altering unless it is the pen name “Peter
Culex.” “Peter Out” would look well.
Acting-Premier Barnes struck something
novel in the way of deputations a few days
ago. Councillors from Ipswich and a couple
of its suburbs, representing an alleged public
meeting of citizens, asked that the Govern-
ment should distribute reports, geological
maps, etc., amongst “the financiers in Brit-
ain” with a view to persuading Private
Enterprise to start an electric station in the
Ipswich coalfield to supply power and light
to the city and the surrounding collieries,
and also —if the said financiers would extend
their benevolence so far—to run trains and
trams. According to the deputation’s argu-
ments and figures, the Ipswich district offers
the best business proposition in the power
and light retailing trade in Australia, the
demand for the goods being huge, while the
production ought to cost only .838 pence
per unit. Therefore, of course, being so
good, the thing should be joyfully presented
to some private capitalist—and a foreign
capitalist af that. Even the mild and un-
warlike bishop said in reply that, while he
was a, great believer in Private Enterprise,
it might be dangerous for the Government to
induce companies to come to the State to
become monopolists later on. So, unless the
Cabinet is kinder than Barnes, the tender
yearning of an ancient and unwise city to
be adopted by a kind person who will hold
it in her arms and squeeze it gently, and
never make it pay more than it can, and let
it buy back a well-seasoned old plant after
50 years or so, may not be realised, after all.
“Rangan”: Perhaps it is because Western
Bananaland can’t stand the climate and do
the “donkey work.” Anyhow, in the Long-
reach district (400 miles from the coast,
average rainfall 17 inches, dry winter,
summer heat “intense and distressing”) in
1908 there were railed 21,000 bales of wool;
but last year the place managed to scrape up
44,000 bales, an increase of 100 per cent,
in five years. Also 20 years ago a full-
fleeced brought 3s. ; now that every-
body is clearing out they are given away for
14s. off the shears. In the last five years
this God-forsaken, poverty-stricken part of
the country has paid the Queensland rail-
ways £500,000. And so the business goes.
Sheep are increasing, and the cattle have
been pushed right out to- the border. Next
year more country is to be, thrown open for
settlement, and already 60 people have de-
cided to take the risk. I hardly like to men-
tion that the Savings Banks show that the
fools who have already taken the risk man-
aged to put by £44,000 in the past year, and
that there were no claims for old age or in-
valid pensions. I suppose it’ll be the same
old story when the Northern Territory is
railroaded. It’s all very discouraging con-
sidering the warnings that have been pub-
lished.
Return of the Native.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There must have been a pleasure in seizing by the
collar and pants certain members of the race that
lowered the vierkleur, and starting them off again
to London, where so many Boer misfortunes were
brewed.— The Bulletin (12/2/T4).
They brewed a brew in London town
And served it to the Boer;
It turned his stomach upside down.
It rent him right from toe to crown,
-; It left him just a weary clown
With rage in ev’ry pore.
They laughed a laugh in London town
To think they’d done ,tlio Boer;
They said : “He’ll soon find out, we guess,
11 is system’s in a deadly mess.
He’ll Jive to lift his hands and bless
The brew from Britain’s shore.”
They brewed a brew in Hopper town—
The clan whose name is Boer;
They sent it back to Bull again,
Who saw it Hud with secret pain.
“What stuff is this from o’er the main
They dump about my door?”
They laughed a laugh in Hopper town,
And in the Taal they swore
Of all the jokes fchi« w as the best:
To break in on the Briton’s rest
By sending back his native pest,
And wiping out the score.
QUEENSLAND.
VAN DOPPER.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. February 21. 1914.
My Dear Thargohindah,—-
The Macgregor, with the missus, and his
trusty and helpful apprentice Foxton, neatly
opened the Allora show on Tuesday. After
a deal of experience, my dear, I think that
when it comes to cracking an agricultural
show lay the Macgregor will take some beat-
ing. And it’s more profitable than the ordin-
ary cracksman’s job; besides, the hours are
better. For instance, how many mere safe-
openers do you know who average £3OOO a
year and free premises?
General lan Hamilton, D. 5.0., arrived
yesterday. A citizens’ reception met him in
the morning, the United Service Institution
extended the elated hand in the afternoon,,
and the Governor dined him at night. To-day
the great parade of all troops was held at
Ascot Racecourse, but I don’t think the
General got anything to eat there unless lie
had a flask and a sandwich stowed under his.
hat or a meat pie in his revolver pocket.
Despite the heat and moisture of the
current week, two interesting engagements;
have been booked at Cupid’s Exchange. Yda
Buchanan, youngest of Mrs. J. D. Buchanan’s;
trio of pretty daughters, and sister of Mrs.
Tom Power, of your State, has agreed toi
chance E. E. Edwards, a director of. Bris>-
bane Telegraph, and a son of Richard
Edwards, ex-M.H.R. The other risk was;
accepted by Miss Isabel Power (youngest
daughter of the late W. G. Power, of Sylvan
Park, Nundah) and Victor Faithfull (son
of F. W. E. Faithfull, Q. N. Bank, Ilughen-
den).
Dolly Jardine’s wedding with Donald
Cameron took place on Wednesday. The
Voice that made them one flesh did so in
the presence of our Exceedingly Best, and in
an atmosphere of lilies and roses. Three
charming maids, disguised as hydrangea blos-
soms, attended the bride, the prettiest being
dainty Margaret Stanley, grand-daughter of
the late and far-off Thomas Mcllwraith. The
wedding breakfast disappeared at Palmarosa.
the home of the Cecil Palmers. Mrs. Palmer
will be remembered in your city as the hand-
some Lorna Barron. The Camerons are
honeymooning in the land of the Brown per-
son who sits up North feeling the edge of
his cutlery while he reads the reports of
Australia’s Peace Societies.
Celia Cooper, daughter of the Chief Jus-
tice, left for England this week. Mrs. G. K.
•lopp, mother of dashing (I don’t mean
swearing, my dear) Lieutenant Jopp, accom-
panies her.
Several wielders of the implement that is
flightier than the sword gathered together on
Wednesday night and farewelled Edith Shir-
ley, of the Telegraph literary staff, who.
has packed her. best frock and richest vein
of originality for a vacation in the Ma
State.
The vapor stove claimed a victim this;
week, when Mrs. Reginald Earle, widow of;
the late Reginald Earle, of Hansard staff,,
and sister of Messrs. Harry and Ernest
Baynes, the well-known graziers, was so
severely shocked and burned by one of these
uncertain contraptions that she died.
The pious female is expecting the Wrath
to put in an appearance at any time now.
A few days ago the Tennis Association
decided to open the courts'at Auchenflower
for Sunday play, and the Tango devil has
broken loose and is playing ancient goose-
berry with our innocence and youth. We
shall not gather at the River, sifter Thargo-
mindah —nary a gather.
Yours in a flood of tears,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Bishop Murray, of the R.C. Church—his
official title was Bishop of Issus and Vicar
Apostolic of Cooktown—died at Cairns on
February 12. He was in North Queensland
as far back as 1854, but put in a spell mean-
time as prior of Echuca (V.). Nearly every-
body up North knew him, and everybody that
knew him liked him; for the old man could
no more keep his kindliness for his own flock
than he could keep his money for himself
A few years back the R.C.’s round about
Cairns built and furnished a house for him—
lie would never have saved up enough to buy-
chairs and tables for himself.
Politicus’ : Re this Bananaland Govern-
ment’s alleged policy of “pushing up” voung
men. _ The worst thing that can happen the
ambitious and able young men of any ser-
vice is to have a crowd in power that does
not insist strictly on the retirement of officers
who have passed the statutory age limit.
Notwithstanding that, and notwithstanding
the alleged affection of the Denham Govern-
ment for young men, Queensland has at pre-
sent in office numerous highly-paid officers
of over 70 years who depend largely on their
juniors. The plea for their retention is
always the same—“ Good to-day as ever they
were.” It may be true; but, if so, it is a
sad reflection on their past career. On the
other hand, Bill Bowyangs, lengthsman.
never tarries in the Commissioner’s service
till Us 70th year. Often a casual attack of
rheumatics causes his dismissal at 65 or 60
or even 55. But that’s another story.


■
mm
mm
mk
. . m
T •
m s
;
I
r_
jv.*, ■
Im’#'*** I ! I i
I . (^,v ? | *44.
i J I .*•*'***
■:
%>£>•*»
y
!»«
srangy5rangy
MiiIiBBMMM
■
■
Si
\:
<•;
: P
■1
H
i.
LIM M
I
m
■
■
m
'■
.
■ -*1
«ykLi
Ilililliil
m *" «
iBR WrnmmMmsMmMm
■■■■■■MiHiiiiHUNHß
i
V '!
.
i i
,
f
MMiia
K V,;.
1
.... /
I
I ■
■■l
;.:
? wf~- ‘.. “’,
J
★ ★
BRANDY
IN the Chateau, at Tanunda, South
Aus., the home of Chateau Tanunda
Brandy, there are hundreds of thousands
of gallons of Pure Grape Brandy, includ-
ing large reserve stocks, waiting for
the hand of time to give them
the finishing touch of age.
Three senior Customs Officers
are permanently located at
the Chateau to see that
the Government’s conditions as
to age, purity and quality are
duly carried out.
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
Day after day hundreds of hogsheads of
Chateau Tanunda Brandy pass into the
Bonded Stores, there to remain for not less
than two years. At the end of that time
the Brandy is released from Bond, only to
go through a further maturing process
and to wait until it is in that perfect con-
dition that has won for Chateau Tanunda
Brandy so much praise from connoisseurs.


SEE IT ON THE PACKAGE
TRADE
>4
■
MARK
Rickets
not only affects the bones,
it renders the child liable
to croup, bronchitis, nerve
troubles and acid indiges-
tion. Yet rickets is curable.
Those “wry bones” can be
made sturdy, straight and
strong. That wasted child
can be made healthy and
well—full of life and vitali-
ty. SCOTT’S will do this,
but be sure to get genuine
scons
Emulsion
with the fishman on the
package —the remedy that
has saved the lives of
millions of children.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemist*.
LACTOBACILLINE
TABLETS.
Prepared under the authority and scientific control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
Laetobacilline combats and arrests the development
of pathogenic and putrefactive germs in the intestinal
canal. By this action Laetobacilline not alone exerts
a powerful influence in the restoration to and main-
tenance of perfect general health, but is: specially indi-
cated in AFFECTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE TRACT.
Gastro-enteritis, muco-membranous entero-colitis, _ con-
stipation, intestinal tuberculosis, typhoid fever, influ-
enza, appendicitis and intestinal catarrh. IN CASES OF
AUTOINTOXICATIONS —cirrhosis of the liver, chronic
nephritis, arterio-sclerosis, chlorosis, amemia, dyspepsia,
etc., IN ALL CASES DUE TO ABNORMAL INTES-
TINAL FERMENTATION: IN ALL CASES DEPEN-
DENT ON DISTURBANCES OF SECRETION of bile
and? pancreatic juice (gallstone, pancreatic diabetes.)
Tn diabetes, Laetobacilline, by virtue of the fermen-
tation which it sets up in the alimentary sugars, di-
minishes the Glycosuria. The tablets are put up in
glass cylinders, and are packed in boxes each con-
taining eight cylinders. Price 5/6 per box. Each
cylinder and box bears the words “Le Ferment Seul
Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,” without which
none are genuine. Laetobacilline can be ordered
through any chemist. Full particulars can be obtained
from the Societe le Ferment, Australasia Chambers,
406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane, or branches: Vic-
kery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney ; Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smeeton’s Build-
ings, Queen Street. Auckland.
ft
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2jin. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions. POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
Apollinaris
Annual filling at the Apollinaris Spring
Year 1901 - - - 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 191! • - - 37,000,000 Bottles
"THE QUEEN OF TABLE WATERS”
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. ST AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M:L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. : The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
(SWA
P®«NTf»£N.
ĥ
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 2SSaGeorgeSt., Sydney
i~•jK-Jsai&sjr
/C
ijqggspr
r ....yr.$
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
1
Comer Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles
c
Hotel
Hunyadi James
For an adjustment of the system, to dispel Kidney Trouble, medical men
from time immemorial have advocated the use of watery purging. One of
the best of all such agents is Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water.
It ensures a prompt, copious, painless and easy evacuation of the intestines.
Hunyadi Janos neither depresses the patient nor sets up a state of after-
constipation, two points of the utmost importance in dealing with patients
suffering from kidney complaints, which sooner or later give rise to much
emaciation, anaemia, and general debility of body and mind.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
lip
IS
Science behind it—
PEBECO is a complete
scientific ‘ health-course ’ for
the mouth and teeth.
/ Its alkaline properties correct the acidity
of the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon
the teeth, and deodorise the breath. Pebeco
, imparts a pearly whiteness, arrests decay,
removes tartar, and by invigorating the
tissue remedies shrinking gums.
P€B€CO
TOOTH-PASTE
is highly antiseptic, and if regularly used
prevents many diseases of the mouth and
V throat. A sample of " Pebeco,” and an
interesting test by which you may prove
its value, sent FREE. Of all chemists.
Large Tube 1/6, small l/-
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St.,
Sydney (wholesale only).
Iv
sL
Tim
P6BCCO
TOOTH PASTE
ħ
I
mm
Waterman’s
(Ideal
Foun t airiPen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writing a positive pleasure.
Nil? just suited to your hand, a
steady, sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing, no leak*
ing, no spluttering, no faltering.
Lasts a lifetime; every pen
guaranteed. Makes an ideal Gift.
In four type* —Regular, Safety, Self-
Filling and Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C- Hardtmuth, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
(Australia : 350, George Street, Sydney.)
Write Jor booklet.
■buhl
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
William Henderson: To get down to de-
tails: (1) Tropical Australia amounts to 1,149,320 _
square miles, of which area 426,320 square miles are
in the Territory and 723,000 are not. Most people
seem to think the N.T. is all the tropic land we have.
(2) The bit of the N. Territory which isn’t in the
tropics is larger than Victoria, much larger than Tas-
mania, and bigger than England and Scotland put
together. (3) By reason of the elevation of a great
part of the interior (see map, page 53 of Knibbs’s
Federal Statistics, 6th edition) the climate is fairly
cool. Spencer and Gillen, in their “Across Austra-
lia” (page 149) remark of the southern part of the
Territory: “We awoke at 5 a.m. to find our water-bag
frozen solid. .. .a temperature 16 degrees below freez-
ing point,” etc. Of course, like all the other shore-
line skirmishers, you quote Darwin, Pine Creek and
Boroloola —three places on the hot narrow coastal
strip—as if they were the whole Territory. Didn’t
you get beyond them ? This paper has spent much
space warning people against the genius who doesn t
get past the coast and yet grows bumptious about his
“knowledge.” Boroloola is estimated as being only
a few inches above sea level. (4) You say we would
find much of the Territory “confoundedly hot” (of
course you quote Darwin and Pine Creek and Boro-
loola) if we had lived there as long as you. But
you don’t say how long you lived there. This writer
struck Darwin in January, .just to see what it was
like, and he survives. (5) The heat centre of Aus-
tralia is about Condon and Nullagine in Westralia.
The three places which have had the greatest number
of consecutive days with the temperature over 100
are Marble Bar (W.A.), Nullagine (W.A.) and Boulia
(Queensland, just over the tropic line). The places
with the longest consecutive records of days when
the thermometer was over 90 are Thursday Island
(Q.), Bourke (N.S.W.), and Dubbo (N.S.W.). The
Territory doesn’t take a front seat in either cau-
gory. (6) Incidentally you strike us as somewhat
of an ass Microbe: Surely you are talking through
your hat when you raise such an alarm about the
inefficiency of the laws for the exclusion of con-
sumptives, the great influx of consumptives, and the
way the consumptive hospitals swarm with new arri-
vals. In 1911 (Knibbs’s latest figures) 3736 people
died of consumption in the Commonwealth. Of
these 2730 were born in the Commonwealth, 605
had resided there over 20 years, and only 107 were
comparatively new residents —three years or less.
Tuberculosis is an over-rated complaint in this cli-
mate. If half as much attention were paid to
syphilis this would be a greatly improved com-
munity Lit: Always glad to get information, but
it’s no use asking us to make charges against public
officers on the unsupported say-so of unnamed third
parties.... Ces: Better, in any case, get your idea
protected first.... Wurndoang: “The Jersey Lily” has
never been in Australia, but a lady who called herself
“Lilly Langtry”—with two l’s in the vegetable part
—is well-known in the Rickards track Ena:
For a start, vou need some plain, garden-variety of
education. There were eight mis-spelled words in
your brief note....J. G. Patea: Thanks; but we
should like to see the report of the end of the case.
. . W.T.R.: Wheat figures for 1913 are not yet
available. The previous figures are: Great Britain,
1911, 62,656,000 bush. ; 1912, 56,080,000 bush.
NSW. 1911, 27,913,547 bush.; 1912, 25,088,102
bush Seeker: The Lost Ten Tribes are only a
figure of speech. There were supposed to be 13
Tribes in all, descended from 11 of Jacob’s sons and
two of his grandsons. Simeon vanished at the very
beginning from the story of the settlement in Pales-
tine. Either; the Philistines ate him or he went back
into the desert and became a cannibal. That left
12. Judah and Benjamin survived, and run the
financial business to this day, though Judah has
practically swallowed up Benjamin. That leaves 10.
Levi wasn’t wholly lost, for one of him was mixed
up in the fuss of the Good Samaritan, and some of
him is still around. So there are nine t 0
be accounted for. And as hardly any of them save
big. drinky old Ephraim were heard of after the
early Philistine conquest, it seems that Eph. swal-
lowed most of the balance, and that there was only
one tribe and some scattered fragments lost in the
final upheaval.... Dingbat: So it was you who re-
ceived that note from the child’s mother saying that
it was rude to teach Gwendoline about her inside
you striped prevaricator! That child’s inside has
wandered round the “comic” press of five continents
for many years. .. .Te Babarantiko: You have no
redress unless you patented your scheme. Cecile s
remedv would be under the Copyright Act. . . .Priest-
ley: The alleged woes of Father have been exposed
repeatedly in print and on the vaudeville stage....
Perhapsnot-: Quite 50... . Colonial: Lengthy oration
about the tame trams and wild rabbits of Dunedin
(M.L.) to band. This isn’t our tram and rabbit
week H.W.: One very old, others not up....
Rep: Go and dig up a cemetery and see if you can
get something fresher. .. .B. Lugs: Right; thanks.
....Harry M.: Yes, glad to consider others Will
.1. (V.) : These more or less disconnected chapters
from a novel (you haven’t announced them as such,
but we guess that’s what they are) are not suitable
for separate and occasional publication. Your stun
is not neatly divided into interest-tight compart-
ments —an essential condition for the casual reader.
.... John R.: Creditable work, but not quite up to
standard. Try and market them elsewhere H.G.
(S.A.) : Poor'stuff right through. .. .Fred B.: You
make us mad —and the butchers’ strike has made us
quite mad enough already. Last night the Religious
Editor was 40 minutes purchasing a pound of ham,
and his mental condition when he finally escaped was
lamentable Talia: It lacks snap Le T. (Adel-
aide) : Just ulain rhymes.... Homo: It misses in
about three different ways. . . .C.E.8.: Rhymes of no
value about nothing in particular Ethel S.: Not
worth anything. . . .A.W.S. (W.A.) : Madeline is hope-
less. Give her up... .W.R.8.: Feeble yerses basketed.
. ...F.W.S. : Drivel. .. .S.R.C.: Anon a wild and
shrieking sub-editor threw it 0ut.... Snatcho: There’s
no mental nourishment in that poem.... Policeman
P.: It’s a case of hard labor. .. .W.R.: Sweet and
simple, but not worth while. .. .E. Temple: It
struggles along towards the basket and eventually-
... .0. Rig: No use to man or beast.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.S.: Why not try and learn something ? A few really
humorous ideas would not come amiss either. There
is very little humor in broken teeth, warts, -mis-
spelt signs and scars, and a deformed hand. .. .Jerry:
One of the portraits is just recognisable, but both are
wooden, and you suffer from the scratching habit. .. .
J. 8.: That dance jest is an old one. ...L.: Being
just faint smudges they wouldn’t reproduce. It is jus s t
as well; anyone who tried to-reproduce them would
deserve to be prosecuted.... Mabel C.: Cricket illus-
tration is so quaintly stiff that it almost has the
interest of a mediaeval decoration... .K.U.F. : • Here
and there, your figures resemble human beings. But
that isn’t enough. You attack in a fine free fashion,
but what you don’t know you leave out—and there’s
a frightful lot of leaving out. The Jew salesman is
dressed like a navvy, and has only a fragment of
hand left on his emaciated right forearm. Such
peculiarities spoil a drawing which is intended to be
amusing. .. .B.B.: The Tango girl is rather nice in
a sketchy-scratchy way, but the swivel-eyed tailor’s-
dummy in the straight-jacket is repellent and highly
improbable. .. .Albie B.: The couple are quite flat,
and the old lady’s skirt without a fold or a crease
is almost as mad as her husband’s porcupine-quill
whiskers. Frankly, you annoy u5....5.C.: Have an
idea we rejected that two-figure drawing before, but,
if so, we don’t mind doing it a second time. The
artificial jest has a stale flavor, and the drawing,
though decorative in a feeble way, is stiff.


STEWART DAWSON’S
The Home of Australian Souvenirs!
You can foster the true Imperial spirit in no more effective manner than bn
the exchange of tokens. The folks “at Home” will highly value such typical
Australian Souvenirs as are here illustrated. Each one is perfect in its
representation, and of a quality that ensures lasting memory of the donor
and of the country from whence it came. Mail a token to-day.
05565 —F i n e s t
quality Enamel
and Solid Silver
Spoon, 9/6.
Our Free Catalogue
Illustrates many
New Ideas in
Souvenirs.
09757 Pearl and Turquiose, set
9ct. Gold Kangaroo and Boom-
erang Brooch, 15/G.
t PA
CB6Bl—9ct. Gold Pendant, 10/6.
loot. Gold Pendant, 17/6.
C 9435 —9ct. Gold, Pearl set,
Southern Cross and Boomerang
Brooch, 10/6.
05567—F incst
quality Enamel
and Solid Silver
Spoon, 9/6.
Postage Paid to
any Address.
Try Shopping by
Mail.
Strand Comer, 412 George Street,
SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; &73t0 81 Regent Street, W.
"Empties
with a
Shakel”
>1 V
WF
i4l
Dig Post Holes
4 times faster
and easier!
The old crowbar-and-spade method is
simply drudgery compared with the
“Iwan” Post Hole Digger.
First of all, The “Iwan” bores into
the ground four times faster than other
tools. Second—it bores the hole just
about right for the post. Third —it
leaves very little earth to shovel back
and ram. Fourth —You get a firmer
fence.
On the other hand, digging with bar
and spade, you have to make a hole
twice as wide as you need, so as to get
the depth. Then you have a heap of
earth to shovel and ram.
Get an “Iwan” Digger and feel like
the Mirboo (Vic.) farmer who wrote
to us stating: “I never would be with-
out one !”
Send to-day.
345 678 9 10 12 Min.
V- V- 'll- V- 7/6 8/6 9/6 10/- 27/- 34/-
h
Proprietary Ltd.
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
What is this
Farmer doing?
He’s using a Starrett Levelling;
Instrument No. 101, because be feels
that Farm surveying by guesswork is
risky.
Farmers, as a rule, have most of the
latest tools and implements for doing
farm work, but rarely will you find a
levelling instrument included in the kit
—simply because they do not care to
pay the price usually charged for a sur-
veyor’s or engineer’s level and transit.
The result is that jobs needing a level
have been done by guesswork, and there-
fore unsatisfactorily.
The Starrett Levelling Instrument No. 101
gets you out of the difficulty. The price com-
plete, with long legs and 12in. Sight Tube with
Cross Wires, is but 46/-
Starrett No. 101 guarantees accuracy on all
kinds of drainage, under-drainage, irrigation
work, terracing land, road making, setting out
orchards, grading of all kinds, fencing, getting
angles, and every farm job requiring such an
instrument. Your neighbors would gladly hire
it from you at times,
Japanned Telescope Legs give a height from
2ft. 6in. to 4ft. 6in. Packed Weight,
13ilb. Full instructions' for use sent with
each instrument, 46 /- complete, We also have
Starrett Level and Transit 998, with 12in.
Sight Tube, 80/- Level and Transit 99F.,
with Telescope, Long Legs and Ground and
Graduated Level Glass, £7/10/-
Ask McPherson’s to send you their profusely
illustrated book, showing the modern Garden
Tools —“Iron Age” Wheel Plows, Cultivators,
Hoes, Seed Drills, etc. Post Free. Mention
Bulletin, please.
WHAT IS
J
p
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
riIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
ft. *
JL& w Po/ncj
&*■ /nvenlorj
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all' cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Trust Office.
Established January 1, 1914.
- State Guarantee.
The Public Trustee can act as
TRUSTEE ADMINISTRATOR
EXECUTOR ATTORNEY or AGENT.
Solicitors, Auctioneers or Agents employed by testator or settlor will be employed
by the Public Trustee.
For full particulars and all information as to charges, etc., apply
T. W. GARRETT,
Public Trustee, Sydney.
The fast man
ĥ
requires every assistance; he must not be handicapped
by a cramping or painful saddle. Thirty years’ experience
of his needs has developed our 817 Champion, a saddle
carefully made to give absolute freedom and comfort.
We would specially point out the doming of the back
of the saddle, a feature commended by the leading
path riders as of great value for speed purposes.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
Taste It!
Since 1837,clever housewives
have prized the wonderful
flavor of BIRD’S Custard.
A trial is simply a revelation—no Custard
so delicious, so pure, or so wholesome.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.— A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address, by
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
BIRD'S
CUSTARD
:■ .
m
92.
V X V
I
'
V
Sold in Pkts., Boxes,
and new LARGE Tins.
169 S. W.


Miasms' Friends.
EDWARD HOLDOM, Boilermaker, last
heard of from Port Wellington.
Your father, JOSEPH HOLDOM, 140
Sultan Road, Portsmouth, , England, seeks
for you. Edie dead.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence.
Melbourne, 10th February, 1914.
Appointment of Junior Clerk to Gov-
ernment Small Arms Factory, Lithgow,
under Section-63 (1) and (2), Defence
Act, 1903-1912.
APPLICATIONS are invited for appoint-
ment as Junior Clerk, Small Arms Fac-
tory, Lithgow. Applicants must not be less
than 16 nor more , than 18 years of age.
Salary on appointment, £6O per annum.
Application forms and full particulars may
be obtained by applying to the Secretary,
Department of Defence, Melbourne; tbe
Military Commandant, Victoria Barracks,
Paddington, New South Wales ; or the Man-
ager, Small Arms Factory, Lithgow, New
South Wales. Applications must be lodged
with Secretary, Department of Defence,
Melbourne,’ not later than 3rd March, 1914.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE,
• : Secretary.
Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
TUCKER, “The Singing Violinist.”
TWO BOBS, Original Entertainers.
WATERBURY BROS. & TENNEY, Comedy Act.
TOM DAVIES TRIO, Motoring in Mid-Air.
CLEMONS & DEAN, Musical Comedy Couple.
LILY EYTON, Vocal Comedienne.
MARSHALL CROSBY, Australian Baritone.
And a Git EAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
Ol'EltA HOUS E. MKLISOC It N E.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
THE FIVE PETLEYS, Trampoline Artists.
DE FRA, in Chair Balancing Act.
BARTON & ASHLEY, Brisk and Breezy Americans.
ROMANO BROS., Grecian Gladiators.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS, the Charming American.
DU CALION, the Loquacious Laddie on the Ladder.
BELLORA, the King of Mimics.
PASQUALI BROS., Eouilibrists and Balancers.
Plan at Allan’s. §*TPRICES—4s., 3s„ 25., Is.
Tivoli theatre, Adelaide.
Personal Direction: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GENE GREENE (February 28 and March 2 only),
BARTON & ASHLEY, breezy Americans; FIVE
PETLEYS, Trampoline experts; FIVE MERRY
YOUNGSTERS, American Burlesque Artists ;
ROMANO BROS., Classical Posers; JACK
SHIELDS, Yorkshire Comedian; HUGH GANNON,
Ragtime Specialist; and others.
PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
NEW TIVOLI GARDENS.
Every evening at 8.30. “Hullo! Ragtime!!”
Tivoli theatre, perth.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Constant Changes of
WORLD’S STAR ARTISTS,
Supplemented by an Exclusive Film Service.
BOX PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
FAStIIONED FOR FUN. ’
The great white city
THE BRIGHTEST SPOT IN SYDNEY.
SENSATIONAL FREE ATTRACTIONS.
CALVERT,
The Wizard on the Wire, 60 feet in Mid-air.
VAUDEVILLE ACTS,
In open-air Theatre.
FOUR HOMAZ,
Physical Culture Exponents.
Promenade Concerts by
THE WHITE CITY, MILITARY BAND.
ii hpurs’ opgn-air Entertainment, Amusement, Plea-
sure and Merriment, in the Happiest Spot in the
Continent—for SIXPENCE.
Nightly, 6.30. WEDS, and SATS, 2 to 11 p.m.
General Manager, T. S. ESLICK, C.E.
HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE REVUE OF REVUES.
COME .OVER HERE.
The Most Stupendous Entertainment ever Staged in
Australia.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
ADGII’III THEATRE. SYDN E Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Last Two Nights of THE PRIDE OF THE PRAIRIE.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT,
i Gorgeous Spectacular Production of
UNCLE T O M’S CABIN.
This new production of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”-will
be as funny as a pantomime, as sensational as a
melodrama, as full of music and dancing as a vaude-
ville show.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/- and 1/-
A L A C E T II E A T It E. S Y D N E Y.
Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
THE AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
in
THE GRAFTERS and A DAY AT
THE RACES.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 21- and 1/- Box' Plan at Paling's.
The little theatre, Sydney,
WITH THE . BIG ATTRACTION !
Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
MATINEE—EVERY THURSDAY AT 2 p.m.
Continued Success of
MR. HUGH BUCKLEtt & MISS VIOLET PAGET
and Company in PINERO’S MASTERPIECE,
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-. Late Door, 1/-
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose,
Pitt Street.
National amphitheatre, Sydney.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HENRI KUBELICK, THE AERIAL BARTLETTS,
LE WITTE, BEVAN & FLINT, FIVE JUGGLING
NORMANS, CAPT. BRUNSWICK & CO., BIFF &
DE ARMO, GREATER CITY FOUR, MORAN &
CAHILL. DARE-NORWOOD, JESSIE MILLAR.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
The Melbourne Harbor Trust Commissioners.
LOAN OF £300,000 at 4 PER CENT.
FOR TWENTY=FIVE YEARS. Minimum, £97.
DEPOSIT 5 PER CENT. BALANCE ON OR BEFORE 31st DECEMBER,
1914. INTEREST TO ACCRUE FROM DATE OF PAYMENT.
TENDERS will be RECEIVED at the HARBOR TRUST OFFICES, Market
Street, Melbourne, until 2.30 p.m. on MONDAY, 2nd MARCH, 1914.
Full particulars contained in Prospectus and Tender-form, obtainable at the
Trust Offices, or from Messrs. Fred Thonemann and Company, 101 Queen Street,
Melbourne, The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., The Commercial Bank of
Australia, Ltd., and upon application to the Members of the Stock Exchanges of
Melbour
and of the adjoining States.
Melbourne, 21st February, 1914.
G. F. HOLDEN, Chairman.
R. RUDD, Secretary-
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
T* HE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES,
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES : 3d. to 1/-
THE GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO.,
LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
M P E It I A L T II E A T R E,
WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LOVE LUTE OF ROMANY.
A CHARMING STORY OF THE GIPSY
LIFE.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-.
QLACIAKIUM AND OLYJIPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“REST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee).
g PENCE It’S EYC E U AI, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S "BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, II- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
DWARDBRAN S C O M B E ’ S
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH. *
THE KING’S , THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and'Mantiger: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Return of the BERT BAILEY Combination in the
SPECTACULAR MORALITY DRAMA
THE NINETY AND NINE.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Princess’s Theatre, .Melbourne.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the Irish Singing Comedian,
ALLEN DOONE,
in
THE RE BE L.
By JAMES BERNARD FAGAN.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 27-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production of the Stupendous Pantomime
Extravaganza,
THE FORTY THIEVES.
ULn’s Price*: fis,. 4fF. 2s. and Is.
B. E A T R E R O Y A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J;' C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of LOUIS N.
PARKER’S Pageant Play,
JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
RASTER DATES
AVAILABLE AT
TII E AUDI T ODIUM,
MELBOURNE.
EITHER RENTAL OR ON TERMS.
Apply to
J. & N. TAIT,
. - The Auditorium. Melbourne.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 28.
FAREWELL APPEARANCES in MELBOURNE of
Mr. Walter George’s Famous English Entertainers,
THE SMART SET,
in their unsurpassed performances of Refined Music,
Mirth and Mimicry.
Popular Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Box Plan, Pianola.
Q L Y 51 P I A.
Y M F I A.
(Just across
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE
SBENCEB’S PICTURES
OLYMPIA.
MELBOURNE.
Princes Bridge).
UNRIVALLED
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
%*/ EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES the BEST
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.J0.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
IBCH&C A R R O L L
(Queensland). "■
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
IF one stenographer takes the notes
of four persons—and if three of them
stand around while one thinks of what
he wants to say—how much time
could be saved if all of them were
able to think and dictate at the same
time?
The Edison
Dictating Machine
lets every man dictate while the in-
spiration is with him, saves the time
of the high salaried men and leaves
them free for other important duties.
Moreover, it equalises the work of the
typing department, ensures perfectly
written letters and cuts a mighty
substantial percentage off the cost
of correspondence.
Send for a booklet which gives details
of the Edison Dictating Machine.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
Dept. 8., 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
X
"Oh! I say!
It’s Good!”
Cooling, refreshing and 'snappy 1
Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is the ideal Summer beverage.
Large supplies have lately
been shipped from London.
■MCWTSEBBAT is gold by all leading Storekeepers.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
'V,
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc.,'with this
Copying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of your having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 5/-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON,'E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
EVERYBODY'S SAFETY RAZOR
VERY CHEAP, YET VERY GOOD
Only 1/9,
h
complete in metal case, with
directions, and we pay carriage.
Just half the price of the cheapest, yet equal t r
the best. Anyone can use it. A cut face is im-
possible. The frame is hard white metal, rust proof.
The blade is finest tempered steel, keen and com-
fortable, warranted ready for use. “ Everybody s ”
is regarded in America as “ the lady’s razor,” it is so
easy to use and so perfectly safe. There is nothing
cheap ab< ut it except the price Is. 9d. It works
as well as the bn S r half-guinea razor. Extra blades
four for. One Shi.lmg. UNION CO , 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
the MAGIC CORN RUBBER
Instant Relief. Easy to Use. No Danger
Removes the Corn in less than a minute without pain or risk.
A- simple, scientific and antiseptic instrument that >vi 1 last p *
years. Try one and tell your friends. Price ONK
po.-aed to any address. Hundreds of Testimonials.
THE UNION GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
ĥ
A NEW
AND CLEVER
INVENTION.
Folds flat tor
pocket; extends
ito 4in by ein.
Field.. Opera,
Reading, and
Magnifying
Glasses, also
Mirror Tele-
scope and Com*
JS&
all
Only tfi
I posted to eny ad-
dress. One of the
best and most
ful
ever produced.
f
The Union CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
II C. Hoyle, recently elected to N. S. Wales
Cabinet, addressed an R.C. gathering last
week on the old wrangle of religious instruc-
tion in the schools. And this is wha,t Bro.
Hoyle duly unburdened himself of (unless
he has been grievously misreported) :
A well-known Protestant of this city, who was
opposed to Archbishop Vaughan and his efforts for
the perfecting of the system of Catholic education,
had told him (Mr. Hoyle) that he sent his daughters
to the convent to be educated, because they would
know all that they ought to know, and at the same
time they would be protected from what they ought
not to know ; they would only know what was good
and pure in womanhood, what was good in modesty
and refinement.
Now, it is clear from the rest of Hoyle’s
remarks that he agrees, with the “well-known
Protestant” (name not given), which is an
allegation that girls who go to the State
schools are not “protected froip what they
ought not to know,” and know more than
“what is good and pure in womanhood, what
is good in modesty and refinement.” This
seems a favorable place to knock off to
await a reply to this disturbing announce-
ment from Hoyle’s colleague, Carmichael,
Minister for Public Instruction.
The British and U.S. Governments are as
embarrassed as a pair of yokel lovers over
the Mexican row. Neither of them wants
the country ; yet neither can very well leave
it alone. As the U.S. Ambassador in Britain
put it recently, at a Chamber of Commerce
dinner: —
The United States did not desire any more terri-
tory. The rule that every people must govern itself
applied to Mexico as well as to all the other South-
ern States.
But Mexico is palpably incapable of govern-
ing itself in orderly fashion. It has evolved
no one of the Strong Man breed of late.
Huerta comes nearest to the mark, probably.
He is a highly-trained engineer, but the capa-
city for managing a big trig, survey is not a
guarantee of capacity for government. The
difficulty with the Mexicans is that no one
in the country has ever had a real chance of
learning the business of government. Spain
sent viceroys and officials to govern “The
Indies,” but was careful never to give them
any real power, and always recalled any
official who acted in any large fashion on
his own responsibility. The people of pure
Spanish blood are very few, and the colored
folk who are the vast majority of the popu-
lation are either “peons” (semi-slaves) or
belong to lately independent tribes which
are being enslaved by systematic raids called
military operations. The downfall of that
born dictator, Diaz, showed Mexico. where it
stood as an autonomous nation. Diaz defied
the Standard Oil Trust to interfere in the
matter of some oil concessions which he had
made to Lord Cowdray—or rather, as he
then was. Sir Weetman Pearson. The Stan-
dard Oil reply was. in effect, that if the Pear-
son firm got the oil Mexico would get a revo-
lution. Diaz prepared for a sojourn in
Paris —the city that most South American
ex-Presidents go to when trouble gets acute
in their home land. Wall-street prepared to
finance yet another outbreak; a habit with
this street, seeing that practically all such
troubles emanate from it. ])texico has been
in a turmoil ever since. It looks as though-
the Mexicans would continue to go on
spelling their blood on the troubled oil-mag-
nates till (3 ) Britain or the U.S. interferes,
or (2) another Diaz is born.
They are crying aloud in Victoria for an
amendment of the law to give the cheap plain
little county court the same jurisdiction as
the Supreme Court in cases where the claim
does not exceed £5OO. Some reform seems
desirable, for during 12 months no less than
125 Supreme Court writs were issued for
claims averaging £3 odd. In one exception-
ally exciting case the Costs totalled (for both
parties) about £l5O. The legal profession
thinks, or says it thinks, that this sort of
thing discourages litigation, but if litigation
is the road to iustice —and the legal profes-
sion wouldh’t like anyone to say that it. is
reallv the road to bnshranging—litigation
shouldn’t be discouraged.
Once, in the days when the late Dan
O’Connor’s whiskers were still copious in the
land, he told the people of Newcastle that
the glories of their town would one day
rival those of “Tyre and Sodom.” And his
hearers, who had had a religious training and
knew perfectly well that the first two
apostles were David and Goliath, went away
deeply impressed. In fact, some of them
•haven’t become quite sober to this day.


PRESERVE
BABY’S SKIN
K
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
Assisted when necessary by
Cuticura Ointment. They
keep the skin and scalpclean
andclear, sweet and healthy,
besides soothing irritations
which often prevent sleep
and if neglected become
chronic disfigurements,
Cuticura Soap and Ointment arc sold tliroufrhout
tu? world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
Booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S. W.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
If the liver is right the whole system is
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will gently awaken your
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
vegetable.
ħ
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
You need them.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
h
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S ( u. s .a.,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
VGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
XT ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
CALIFORNIA
Corrugated Culverts.
MADE ONLY OF PUREST IRON.
Do not bother any more' with concrete or wooden culverts; concrete
culverts crack and require skill to instal; wooden culverts may rot or be
burned- out.
K
m
THE CALIFORNIA CORRUGATED CULVERT is easily fixed, carries
any load, combines all the requisites of permanent work, and gives you
greater confidence the more you use it.
TRY ONE, 'any size, 12in. y to 84in. dia. It will not cost you much.
Sole Agents :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. Ltd.
535 Kent Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
ĥ
\
Texend
■ BRACES
For Men who know
Quality, Comfort, Style
At first class shops.
3/ -
p
'LOCAL'
mm
PATRIOTISM
I. Your
Aim? e
Then have aVHOT
M at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
1
_L
X
'JhiOK•
ħ
h
Underwear.
Once you have worn Jason
Underwear you will never go back to the old kind.
THE beautiful all-Australasian-wool fabric of
* Jason, with its silky softness, makes it ideal
wear for all seasons. It is the most comfortable and
the most healthy—keeping the body at an even tem-
perature in extremes of weather. And Jason is guar-
anteed absolutely unshrinkable—any garment that
shrinks will be replaced free of all cost. Jason costs
no more than you usually pay : in fact the higher-
grade garments are much more economical than
any other make.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and
prices tor men, ladies, and children. Infants'
Pure White Wear in I’ght and medium weights.
Jason Jerseys for children wear splendidly.
If your dealer does not slock Jason insist
upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty,write—
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England. Aa43
Six'
rvw
r
ĥ
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anil Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
VHi 2/9 & 4/8. Made in England.
ħ
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu ally
cuts short all
attacks ol
SPASMS and COUC.
The Beet Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he cough of BROHCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
OIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tom Noddy”: The stamp-selling instrument that
inhabits Melbourne Town Hall persists in the idea
that it is a poker machine in disguise. It started its
career some weeks ago by bestowing on several
blushing customers six stamps per penny received.
It beat this to a frazzle last week by rewarding an
investor with 23 photos of the Fisher Government’s
unfortunate kangaroo. Yesterday a non-gambler
accosted it and presented it with the usual copper.
The machine looked at him reproachfully and re-
turned his coin; then, as a sort of afterthought, it
whistled to him and dropped another of the same
value into his more or less reluctant palm. A de-
partment that runs this contraption and still rules
out Tattersall’s sweeps simply doesn’t know what
consistency is.
* * * *
“Shipmate” (irom London) : The success of the
P. and O. officers’ strike has ripened a harvest for
the whole tribe of mercantile officers. It evidently
panicked a lot of owners ; anyway, the past week or
two lias seen a hurried boost-up of officers’ pay on
many big lines, including the Star, which lately made
fast to the Australasian combine of Milburn, Tyser
:and Royden. At Goole the Merchant Service Guild
:is running a strike of the officers of the Yorks and
ILancs. railway co.’s fleet, and the whole of its 24
steamers are laid up in consequence. Twelve months
ago the co. groaningly parted up increases to the
•officers, and in some cases the rise amounted to as
much as 2s. 6d. per week. A second officer holding a
master’s ticket has lately been pocketing a’whole £2 a
week, and a chief officer has been affluent on £2 17s. 6d.
The second, with a master’s ticket, has been getting
.just ss. 6d. a week more than a stokehold coal-
slinger. But, though they have gone on strike against
this pay, they are princes compared with some of
the poor wretches of masters and mates who dodge
Davy Jones round the fog-bound, snow-squally, sleety
coast of. the Unkind Kingdom. There are shiploads
of coasting skippers who are drawing £5 a month
and £1 10s. a cargo—men who have to charter
ships, navigate them round treacherous, rock-bound
and shoal-sown coasts, and up and down English and
Continental rivers for 3s. 4d. a day. If the P. and
O. strike-effects trickle round to such men as these,
it ought to be inscribed in letters of gold in the
log-book.
* * * *
“Wonga”: The Meat Trust is adopting the methods
that make money. It has secured the services of
two of the smartest men connected with one of the
biggest meat concerns in Queensland. One is re-
ported to be receiving £3OOO per annum, as against
the £lOOO which his Australian employers paid him,
and the other £l5OO in place of some £7OO or
£BOO. This country doesn’t yet generally under-
stand the value of big pay, but the Yankee will
teach the lesson. Unfortunately it will be at the
•expense later on of Australian stockowners and
■stock consumers, unless the Trust is going to belie
all previous history.
* * * *
The imported failure again. The Commonwealth
Postal Department has two automatic stamp-selling
machines exhibited in Melbourne streets. The Aus-
tralian-invented article has so far worked satisfac-
torily, neither “rooking” the public nor allowing
the Department to be “had.” But the imported
.jigger developed a jerky, unreliable style of work-
ing, occasionally handing out three stamps for one
penny placed in the slot, and at times refusing to
disgorge any at all. It is now, of course, being
overhauled by Australian mechanics.
What an overworked receptacle the vest pocket is 1
Some little time ago, Federal Statistician Itnibbs
helped to further distend it with a condensed volume
of figures intended for use by politicians and others
who are always wanting to prove people liars at
short notice. Before Knibbs arrived with his little
lot, the same old vest pocket was swollen by dic-
tionaries, diaries, one or two makes of cameras,
revolvers, matchboxes, cigar-cutters, penknives, pen-
cils and a dozen other things that are more or less
necessary to civilised man. With so many people
trying to load up his garments, Man, the earth’s
burden-carrier, is lucky to have Woman continually
with him to dredge cash out of his pockets and
lighten his burden. Poor wretch! his chief use in
life is to hurry about with rubbish.
* * * *
According to the Government Statist’s report,
South Aus. had under crop last year one-fourth
(3,000,000 acres) of all the cropped land in the
Gommonwealth, and by far the largest area of any
State in proportion to population—-over seven acres
per head, Westralia coming next with under four.
The crops were worth £8,000,000. “Goyder’s Line,”
supposed to indicate the safe wheatgrowing belt, is
now much ignored, and one-fifth of the wheat comes
from beyond it. The average is, however, only seven
bushels per acre outside, as against 11 inside the
old Surveyor-General’s mark. The State contains
243,000,000 acres, of which it has leased 115,000,000
and sold 12,000,000. South Aus. doesn’t run much
to tenant farmers, and all but one-ninth of the
alienated land is occupied by the people who are
alleged to own it. Whether they will own it eventu-
ally depends upon the luck they have with the
mortgage.
* * * *
“Kaneiry”: Out here in the north-west of Vic.,
where the dingo and the dishonored P.N. flourish,
enormous deposits of gypsum have been discovered;
and somebody has told someone else that they may
be of some value some day. Near liow Plains alone
there are 50 square miles of the raw goods. When
you light upon mounds of floury copi (the native
name for “white”), and the mounds are from 20ft.
to 30ft. high, five chains in width, and from 20 to
30 chains long, and they’re on your Mallee allotment
—that portion of it that has hitherto been considered .
useless —-you now begin to hope that Providence has
not entirely neglected you. Gypsum which is
hydrated sulphate of lime, is extensively used for
making plaster of Paris, alabaster, cements, paving
materials, cheap paints and manures, and the 2078
tons raised in Victoria in 1912 realised £3359. The
analysis says our stuff is nearly pure gypsum ; and
when this writer remembers that half of his 985 acres
at Ivow Plains is copi, he no longer thinks thoughts
of unutterable gloom, but hugs the hope that some
day soon there’ll be an alabaster factory in his back.
yard. If it insists on being in his front garden, he
won’t argue the point.
A VICTIM OF PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lie dropped his chin upon his chest;
His fat old heart, beneath a vest
Of broadcloth, lumbered heavily,
While palsy shook each ancient kne«.
He was an old Conservative
With not much longer left to live;
In bitterness he groaned, and grieved
At what in Bourke-street he perceived.
And when along the Block he crawled
And watched awhile, he almost bawled
In his wild woe and vain regret,
His equilibrium quite upset.
In sorrow and extreme distress
He stood in Swanston-street. “Go’ bless
Me soul, they’re everywhere!” he growled
And lifted up his voice, and howled.
Before the Central Station, quite
Bowed down with trouble, left and right
He saw through tears that dimmed each eye
More motor-’buses rumble by.
And when a kind “cop” asked him how
It was that trouble lined his brow,
And made him look at life askew,
The poor old fellow sobbed anew.
“Alas! —the old man hid his face
Since he was in a public place—
“ Alas! I earn my daily bread
By holding Melbourne Trams!” he said.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


“THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistoi
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b dBl/15/-
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt n : v.... £2151.
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State. '
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g a u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Gilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel dun. 25/-1 Non-Ejcctor, 22/6
h
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
“ The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case-
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38|in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards.
Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W.. 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
35-
MICK SIMMONS LTD,
Head Depot: HAYMARHET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
e
mu
m
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved; weight of 12-gauge about 6£lb. to 71b.,
of 16-gauge to DELIVERED,
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at 74/ - extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
72/6
o
9
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7£lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR .
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness's) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated W aters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
pAMOUS
ARCES
REE-ACTING
II-
Contents—
Area Belle
Betsy Baker
Box and Cox
Ici on Parle Francais
My Turn Next
Rough Diamond
That Rascal Pat
Turn Him Out
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-
(posted 1/1).
Mention The Bulletin.
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1; Stage Jokes, 1/1;
Irish Jokes, 1/1; Talk-
alogues, 1/1; Jokes
Without Whiskers, 1/1;
On a Fast Train, 1/1;
On a Slow Train, 1/1;
With a Bum Show,
1/7; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Brough’s
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4 ; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1 Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
♦ »
11>
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing
Cards, which
areapparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altoge t h e r.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i o n s;
anyone can
work them.
2/9 ,
posted 3/»
Other EasyTiard Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Flve, 6d. each;
posted Bd. Above 3Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.^KS
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps orPostal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET , MELBOURNE .
*[3
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO.
New York.
ĥ
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, efc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “FENANKLE,” New York.
ħ
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Meriuf.
England, 6d. llow to Get Rich, Is posted. Da. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. -Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Tklling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ingPampiilet, 1/2. .The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(l)reamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id,
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. • History of tiie Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oh. Eng. Handbook, 6s. Not Guilty (Blatch-
foFd), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
Ggd and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read- Faces, Is 3d. How to
TgAiN for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
aKd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
Hjow-TO Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
TRicks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
PXpkring, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
SMBRACIN#
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
IMF* BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e M with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. , P(ow to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hotle's
Card'Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowt River, 4s.
Poultrv Keeping, Is posted- Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Readt Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d postfed. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made East, Is. posted. Kkllt Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations -.and portraits. Is; post
Is 2d. Electricitt Made* Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide.,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SRPEstablished 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my.
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hit. Milford's Mid.
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Kino, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s Od post.
Ingkrsoll's Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bknnarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted.. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Mrs. A. McCabe’
Little Daughter
(from a photo.)*
m
J
/c
W?
B 8 4 '
- ,
v
This Lovely Little Child owes her Health and
Beauty to REXONA SKIN and FACIAL SOAP.
“My little girl and I have used your Rexona Soap for some consider-
able time and have found it excellent for the hair, scalp and skin,” writes
Mrs. A. McCabe, 60 Melville Street, Dunedin, N.Z. “Also I found it the
best and most useful remedy for dandruff, with which we were both
troubled, that I have'ever used, and I have tried a very great many indeed.
Using it as per directions it quickly removes the dandruff, cleans all
blemishes from the face and skin, leaving a smooth, healthy and peach-
like bloom that I have never noticed resulting from any of the remedies
I used before I tried your Rexona Soap. It also leaves the hair soft,
silky and glossy, and promotes its growth with almost incredible rapidity.
And I thank you for the great benefit we have received by its use, and
recommend it to all who may read these few words of gratitude.”
THE REXONA HABIT.
A habit formed is hard to break. Bad habits are easily formed, but good
habits can be attained almost as easily. The Rexona habit results in health and
beauty, and once formed will never be broken.
There are two Rexona habits —that of using Rexona Ointment to heal all
injuries to the skin; and the Rexona Soap habit, which consists of keeping.oneself
clean and pure with a delicately scented and medicated soap. Rexona Ointment
and Rexona Soap mean clean skin, health and beauty, comfort to the uprv', and
immunity from disease. So form the Rexona habit. Start with a Is. cake of
Rexona Soap, and a Is. 6d. pot of Ointment. Soon you will be glad to know that
Rexona Soap is put in dainty boxes containing three cakes each, and that Rexona
Ointment is also sold in larger size triangular pots, containing nearly four times
the quantity of the Is. 6d. size, which are sold at 3s. each.
Bath Your Baby witb REXONA SOAP.
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap makes your child a healthy
baby. It keeps his skin
fresh and sweet, his scalp so
clean and wholesome. Any
irritation of the skin
which keeps baby awake,
or makes him cross and peev-
ish, Rexona Soap will quickly
soothe. A refreshing bath
with Rexona Soap and gentle
anointing with Rexona will
cool his skin, and take away
all discomforts, so that baby
and mother will sleep quietly.
The pure, sweet emollients
used in Rexona Soap are
suited to baby’s delicate skin,
and keep it in the best con-
dition. Rexona babies are
contented babies because
they feel well-cared for and
comfortable. Get a tablet of
Rexona Soap from your
chemist or grocer. The price
is Is. You are sure to like it.
h
sn
SKIN
FACIAL
1
Free
ĥ
Play
Va
m
V//A
A
m
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
Sold Everywhere
<tev
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mart be Stamped
l an Buckle.
Guaranteed
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Fa;ce-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
The Word Maker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AMONG the burnt brown grasses upon
the brown hillside
Je lay and dreamed of heroes who
by the spear had died.
His spirit for the stretch and stir of striving
muscles cried
Among the burnt brown grasses upon the
brown hillside.
Ilis shrunken limb forgotten, his wavering
hand-thrust lost,
He moved, a splendid figure, amid the
warring host.
The grey wolf watched him from the rock,
the eagle soared on high,
Till Night, the vulture of the Day, went
wheeling up the sky.
He woke. The stars were over him. A
breath of crushed wild thyme
Came like the scented dust of gods from
grinding wheels of Time.
He woke, and far and silver white a-down
the purple skies
He saw the ghost thing of the moon slip out
of Paradise.
* * * *
Threading the pathways of the vale a hun-
dred fireflies grew,
’Twas where the wandering tribesmen
couched amid the leaves and dew.
A burst of rude sound split the night, the
snap of flint on flint
But close he pressed the tangled roots among
the flattened mint.
He saw his flaccid, useless hand, his
withered, palsied limb,
And all the night as all the day was desolate
to him,
Outcast...a feeble, foolish thing, with fool-
ish, babbling tongue,
As empty as a barren breast where only
beads are hung.
The maid who wore the eagle’s quill had
gibed at him that day,
Her smooth flank softer than a flower
against the granite’s grey.
A doddering witch had bade him in, and
mocked his helpless hate
With jest, that she of all the tribe was fittest
for his mate....
He lay upon his face and wept, along the
brown hillside,
But Thought crept up the silvered slope, and
from the flowing tide
Thought of the things that are not war, nor
kissing of a maid,
And something moved and strove for birth
... .and clamored for his aid !
Words... .words... .they travailed in the
brain, some red and fierce as flame,
And some as pale as rainy dawns that from
the Storm womb came,
And little ones to join their hands, and big
ones all alone ;
They chattered in the singing leaf, they mut-
tered on a stone I
Some danced like maidens in the Spring, or
moths in summer lust,
Some rolled and crowed as naked babes about
the blossom-dust,
Some stalked a chief to council brave, some
broke against a kiss.
Some hounded Death on lurking Hate, some
rippled into bliss....
United in a stately march they grew to
mighty things ;
Some halted, falling by the way, but some
were wise with wings;
And he forgot his shrunken limb, where
rhyme with quick rhyme met
And he forgot his puny form.... and made
the world forget!
He sang the words by ruddy fires, he cried
them to the height,
Till to the door of skins there crept an
amber maid one night.
He barred the way with rigid arm, and he
laughed low and long,
“Thou can’st go find a lesser man. . . .for I
have wed my song!
“There is no corner in my tent to plight
another troth,
The chosen word I make my mate.. ..1 have
not bed for both,”
And in the heavy, sultry dawn —a blood gout
on the grey—
Within a careless heel-track’s groove an
eagle’s feather lay !
Among the fine Spring grasses upon the
green hillside
He dreamed no more of heroes who by the
spear had died;
Gone back to earth that gave them, as dust
mote blown to space,
He saw the children of Ms soul linked
through the human race....
* * * *
A wrinkled crone went clambering towards
the hillside green;
An amber maid crouched very low the amber
reeds between....
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
“Touring” Outback.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONE' of my walking tours in Queens-
land was from Nanango to Bungaban
—a week’s hard going.
The first night pulled me up at Taabinga.
The only man on the station was Sam, an
easy-going young man who “pottered about
the place.” The others were away muster-
ing. Sam invited me to share his virtuous
quarters, the men’s hut. It was a domicile
that might be mildly described as rough and
unkempt; a good storehouse for bacteria,
where one might contract any kind of disease
without much trouble. The front room was
allotted to me. Sam occupied the other. He
advised me to move cautiously lest I should
fall over the kerosene-tin or the pack-saddle.
They were somewhere about the floor. The
horse-boy had left them there before he went
mustering 10 days ago. He never saw such
an untidy young imp.
Despite precautions I stumbled against
something. A light revealed the withered
hind leg of a foal, which had died at the
back of the stockyard. The dog had dragged
it in the day before yesterday. He would
have to tie that dog up.
Sam lit a slush-lamp—a mustard tin on a
tin plate. Both were covered with filthy
black fat that had boiled over. Whilst it
fizzled and spluttered I surveyed my apart-
ment. Its furniture consisted of a bag-bunk,
the afore-mentioned kerosene-tin and pack-
saddle, and the foal’s leg. That was all.
There being no back door, the clog came
in several times to gnaw at the leg, and at
last I had to get up and haul it outside.
Then Sam got the nightmare, to remedy
which I transferred the kerosene-tin into his
apartment with a great clatter. Sleep was
scarce, for in the dim dawn he made a fresh
disturbance putting his boots on. They
seemed to require a lot of stamping on the
floor to fit his feet into them.
The next night I lodged under a tree in
the wilderness. Dingoes were plentiful, bold
and inquisitive, coming at times into the fire-
light. ’Possums were scampering up and
down the tree at my head, and around the
fire; koalas were snorting and snoring; the
squirrels squealing over the flat by the
creek : and along the ridge the curlews were
crying with weird cadence. It was bitterly
cold, too, and I spent a good part of the night
“stokin’.”
I was awakened at sunrise by crows and
kurrawongs pecking at my feet. Looking
up I saw hundreds of birds around me, and
in the tree above me, and from all directions
more were flocking in with lusty carrion
cries that call mates to feast upon a newly-
discovered corpse. They had mistaken me
for a dead man, and were having a prelimin-
ary corroboree over me.
Luckily my face was covered. Those birds
have a penchant for eyes. I have seen
sheep wandering helplessly about with both
eyes pecked out. They haunt a sick or
starving beast, waiting for the animal to
get down for the last time. They follow
the dingoes, flying from tree to tree, know-
ing well they will come in for a feas|; when
the canine has slain his prey and satisfied
his own hunger.
I shuddered as I saw the black scavengers
hopping away, looking startled and sur-
prised, and utterly unable to comprehend the
situation. One sharp dig through the eye-
lid, and there would have been no need
afterwards to shut that eye to see straight
with the other.
The Burrandowan-road was fair walking,
hut it wasn’t cheerful by any means, for it
is a lonely place where no one lives. Only
thick forests of ironbark and wild apple
trees to gaze upon, with an odd stone curlew
trotting about to relieve the monotony.
Soon after midday I lost the alleged road,
and had to leave my swag under a tree
while I looked around. It was a road but
little used and hard to follow. In places
there was no road at all. The only thing
to do in such cases is to go on blindly in the
direction you think it runs till you pick it
up again—or lose it altogether. It makes
one feel uneasy, and, after wasting a consid-
erable amount of his daily allowance of en-
ergy, there is the annoying conviction that
he has not done himself justice—that he
ought to be many miles farther on. The
veteran sundowner takes no account of time,
but even he objects to walking “round a gum
tree.” He would rather lie--under it.
However, after a lot of beating about. I
got on the road again. I had carried half a
billy of cold tea from camp, and on returning
to my swag found it being sampled by a big
gohanna. It was so big and ugly that one
might be excused for mistaking it for a croco-
dile. Yet it seemed to have been somebody’s
pet, for it wore a strap, like a dog’s collar,
round its neck. Chased it up a tree and
threw the remains of the tea after it. Then *
I walked round and round the tree to see if
I could beat it, but it kept pace with me,
and with a quick side motion circumnavi-
gated that tree in such a masterly manner
that I could not see so much as a claw.
Then I doubled back, and just caught _ a
glimpse of it coming round. It poked its
tongue out rapidly, as though resenting this
trick, and skedaddled back the other way.
Towards evening I met Smith of the “Half-
way Hut,” and, on my mentioning the inci-
dent to him, he said: —
“Just as well you didn’t kill it; that go-
hanna belongs to me.”
“Belongs to you?” I repeated.
He nodded. “I lost three of them last
week.”
“What do you do with gohannas?” I in-
quired.
“I use ’em for drawin’ wood an’ water.
Usually drive a couple o’ dozen, harnessed in
pairs. Best team in creation for takin’ a
load up a pinch —they ’ave such splendid
claws for gravel-scratchin’.”
He may have been a liar, and he may not.
There are some queer cranks in wide spaces.
Some find amusement in capturing ’possums
and branding them, after which they let them
go again. Branded and ear-marked kanga-
roos and wallabies are often met with in the
bush. Another practice is to pluck a crow,
then send him adrift to act as a scare. The
other crows will either immediately quit his
neighborhood, or fall upon and murder him
for indecency.
Beyond Bundoona I was having a noon-
day rest when two men rode up, driving some
spare horses. One was a tall young fellow,
whom his mate addressed as Paddy.
“When did you leave Nanango?” he asked.
“Last Tuesday.”
“You’re travelling nearly as fast as we
are. We left on Wednesday.”
“I daresay on a long journey I’d travel
faster,” I rejoined.
I had never put that idea to a practical
test; but I hfid heard other footmen say they
could beat a horse, and had beaten that
noble animal, so why shouldn’t I?
“I doubt it,” said Paddy, and smiled as
though he pitied my innocence.
“Well, I’ll tell you what I’ll do with you,”
I said. “I’ll back myself against your horses
on a journey to Winton for £10.”
I delivered the challenge boldly enough,
and with every semblance of good faith,
but felt a bit shaky as it occurred to me
that he might ask me to put up the stakes.
I had five shillings.
(Continued on page 48.)


THE CHEMIST SAID:
" USE ZAM-BUK.”
Man’s Distressing: Skin Trouble Banished
After Other Treatments Failed.
Vfh
WW/A
vinni/li
\\
n
Jllis v \
MR. ELTON, whose
skin was made healthy
by Zam-liuk.
PEOPLE qualified to know heartily
recommend Zam-Buk after other
remedies fail. Mr. Claude H. Elton,
of 196 Gore Street, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
says:—“While touring New South Wales
some time ago a nasty skin disease attacked
me, caused through overheating of the
blood. It appeared to be a sort of eczema,
while one doctor diagnosed it as South
African itch. The irritation was dreadful,
and I could not keep my hands from it,
and I lost weight on account of the worry.
The disease first appeared in the shape of
small pimples, and then became moist, and
gave off matter.
“I had been bad for some time, and was
suffering greatly from the excessive irrita-
tion, when I consulted a chemist, who ad-
vised me to use Zam-Buk. I w r ent home
and had a very hot hath, and then applied
Zam-Buk to the affected places. The result
was delightful, for all irritation and pain
were taken away. I continued applying
Zam-Buk until the disease was cured, and
no signs of any spots or pimples remained.
“Since that time Zain-Buk has been found invaluable in the home, and
my wife has also used it with beneficial results.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Bulc is invaluable in the homo,
workshop, and on the farm, sheep-run
and cattle-station. Zain-Buk soothes and
heals skin injuries, and prevents wounds
taking bad ways. The handy pot of Zam-
liuk ensures freedom from festering and
blood poison in all cases of cuts,
scratches, gashes, burns, scalds and sores.
Zam-Buk is excellent for eczema, ulcers,
had legs, ringworms, rash, barcoo rot,
sore feet and other skin troubles. Of all
stores and chemists at Is. (id. and 3s. 6d.
per pot. Get a pot to-day, and always
keep it handy.
jun-Buk
Chamberlain's
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick.©lt is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and w«
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps ba
the means of saving a life.
FEEL BILIOUS
£
//z
ks
Tj
”)/
i\
&
i
Take a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets for
the stomach and liver, and see how quick-
ly the trouble will disappear. They
cleanse and invigorate the stomach and
give one a relish for their meals. They
also regulate the liver and bowels.
“You’ll walk all the way?” lio said, con-
sidering.
“Every inch!” I replied, whilst my
anxiety increased tenfold. He scratched his
chin, his eyes roving over me the while. His
manner was more respectful, and his puzzled
look, betraying a suspicion that I might be
some marvellous pedestrian walking round
the world for a wager, was flattering ; still
I called myself several kinds of fool. I
glanced at the horses, and they all looked
Carbines and Darebins. I had never seen
a traveller with such well-bred, powerful-
looking horses before.
“You’ll carry your swag, too?” he queried,
his hand creeping down into his pocket.
“Of c-course!” I answered, and was so
interested in the subject now that I let my
pipe go out. Hearing the clink of money, I
remarked that one of his horses looked as if
he' were e-oing to get away. But he didn’t
notice; he slewed in his saddle and conferred
in undertones with his mate. I began to
perspire like a bush fire-sprinkler.
The conference ended, he treated my
humiliated person to another scrutiny. “If
the feed was good, you’d lose,” he said
slowly, as though reluctant to let the chance
slip. “As it is,” he continued, “it’s too far
out of our way. and would knock too much
out of our horses.”
I felt like a dog that had got a new tail.
“Otherwise,” he concluded, “I’d give you a
shot for it.”
“You’d go down,” I said, speaking with so
much relief that I was afraid he’d notice it.
“Any strong man can beat a horse on a long
journey.”
He smiled a superior smile and left my
company, and, having given myself a severe
leqture on the indiscretion of making fool
wagers, I took my address into new terri-
tory.
At sunset I unrolled at a mi-mi that
drovers had left. When I had carried a
of wood, and had a bath in the water-
hole, I made the startling discovery that I
possessed only one match. Being numerous
miles from everywhere, this was a serious
matter to me.
I gathered a quantity of fine bark and
dry leaves, put some small twigs on top of
it, and placed my hat behind it. Then I
essayed to strike that match. The first swipe
knocked part of the head off, but it didn’t
light. I got down on my knees and elbows,
and, catching it close against the head, tried
again. A spark of fire flew from it and
went out. I thought it was a hopeless case
then. My spirits drooped, and I asked of
the wilderness: “What is camp without a
fire?” It was more than half my home;
without it to-night I would lack the comfort-
ing influence of my only companion—the
pipe.
It is always the way with the last match.
No matter how careful you are, something
is bound to go wrong. Everything in crea-
tion seems to be against that one match. If
von have a dozen you can strike them as
offhand as you like, and nothing will go
amiss. They will burn in a Townsville
gale, especially when you are done with
them. But what a little puff puts the last
one out!
There was some head on it yet, and I
turned it about to ascertain the extent of
its combustibility. That didn’t amount to
much. The remnant of head was mostly on
one side, and needed gentle handling. I
gripped it closer, with my thumbnail on the
fragment, and struck it sharply against the
box. It cracked. .. .exploded. .. .it 1it....
spit.. . .fizzed.. . .spluttered. . . .and.. . .bless
the majestic bunyip! it burned.
How carefully I fed the little flame ! I
tempted its delicate appetite with powdered
bark and blades of grass. As it grew, I
fed it with twigs and coarser bark; and
when it got fairly going I hauled a big log
over to keep it going through the night.
I didn’t sleep much. A host of ’possums
scampered about me and tormented me for
hours. They were the cheekiest I ever
encountered. They laid siege to my rations,
showing a partiality for the sugarbag, which
they dragged time after time from under my
nillow, the only safe place I had to keep it.
I lay quietly, watching a chance, and grab-
bing quickly whenever a tail came within
reach. It was wonderful with what dex-
terity the thing eluded me. The tail would
almost touch my hand, but ere I could grasp
it the nimble bearer would spring round
and look at me half-indignantly, half-tri-
umphantly. They ate the crumbs of bread
and meat between me and the fire; they
playing leapfrog over me; and they squatted
on my legs and purred. One bounded on
to my chest and off again for no other
purpose, as I could see, than to hear me
say “Ugh!” when he struck me. Once, when
I was dozing, one jumped from a few feet
up the tree and landed heavily on my epigas-
trium. I sprang up with a yell that woke
the echoes. Then I put my boots on, and,
armed with a long stick, I chased them up
and down, round the fire and over the
blankets, first one and then another, making
desperate swipes at them as they reached the
trees; but I only hit the tree each time and
broke my stick. The little brutes would
scamner up to a limb, then fix their round
bright eyes on me and pur-r-r. I sat down
at last and .threw firebrands at them till I
had thrown away all my fire. Then I gath-
ered it up again, spread some hot coals
around, and returned to bed.
An early traveller! going the opposite way,
found me still coiled up next morning. He
unloaded at once, and started to talk
’possum, having been pestered himself far-
ther along the road.
“I hone they didn’t clean you out of
matches,” I remarked. “Struck my final last
night.”
“Similar,” he returned, tapping his chest
with a grimy forefinger. “Thinkin’ o’ keepin’
this fire goin’ till someone comes with a
few.”
I left him at it, and hurried aUng a pad,
winding through a myall forest, that
scarcely boasted enough traffic to keep it
visible. About noon I fetched up at Cadargo,
an out-station nestling under a red, scrubby
ridge. An old blackfellow (a poor rela-
tion or hanger-on ) was dining alone at the
kitchen tablp, while a black girl stood atten-
tive in the corner. I called twice to the
antiquity, but he did not turn his head. He
was tussling with a shank bone, which he
held in both hands. His knife and fork were
on the floor. I turned to the girl. She
touched her ear, nodding towards the
veteran.
“Deaf.”
Could you oblige me with a few
matches?” I asked.
“Got none.”
“None in the house?”
“No; father took the last this mornin’.”
“Where s father?”
“On the run.”
“Be long?”
She looked at me for a moment, then
answered : “He won’t bring it back ; want it
to light his pipe.”
“Gan I see the missus?” I asked.
She crossed from the kitchen, and went
into the house, and presently out came a
fat, cleanly-dressed lubra, with a broom in
her hand.
I repeated the request for matches.
“We haven’t a match left on the station,”
she said. “The boss took th’ last with him
this mornin’.”
Then I understood that the boss and the
black girl’s father were one.
“That’s a blue look-out,” I said, ponder-
ing.
She came to the rescue.
“Firestick?” she suggested.
“Thanks.”
She brought a smoking stick from the
fire, and with that I departed, swinging it
gently to and fro to keep it alight.
Towards sundown the following day I
arrived at a small hut, occupied by a grizzled
hatter named Archie. He was middle-aged,
and had small, tierce-looking eyes and a fuzzy
beard that pointed in all directions except
north. He said the nearest water was in a
creek two miles distant. I hurried away to
find it before dark. When I had gone a
mile I heard him coo-eeing. Then I saw
him beckoning, and went back.
“Where are yer goin’?” he asked, leaning
on the fence.
“To the creek,” I answered.
“Ain’t there another day to-morrer?” he
said, fiercely.
I admitted there would be for most of us.
“Well, blast it, what are yer in such a
flamin’ hurry for?”
He turned away as he spoke, and went
into the hut. I sat down outside, a little
puzzled. Presently he came out again, look-
ing fiercer than ever.
“Why th’ L don’t you come in !”
I was ushered into a mean, low little
shanty containing two room. The first one
was no more than Oft. wide, and had a fire-
place at one end. Its only furniture was a
narrow table affixed to the wall, a sitting
block, a stool and a shelf. The other was a
bedroom, which I was not invited to inspefct;
he carefully shut the door when he passed
in or out so that I could not peep into it.
I sat on the block, while ray host poked up
the fire and slung the billv.
In the course of conversation I learnt
that his was a very small block of land,
which he had taken up for the sake of hav-
ing a home to go to when out of collar. He
ran a fence round it to prevent other people’s
stock from purloining his grass. Having no
cattle or horses of his own, and a great dread
of snakes and casual fires, he had frequently
to burn it off. His only livestock consisted
of nine hens and two roosters. One hen—•
Gluckin’ Biddy—had six chickens. She did
have seven, but the little black chick with
the white spot on its left ear died from con-
gestion of the bowels (so far as he could
make out from the almanac) when it was
four days old. It was the third one out of
the shell. Odd numbers, he found, were
mostly unlucky.
When I remarked that there was some-
thing of the dog-in-the-manger principle
about him in respect to his grass, he ex-
plained that he wanted it for fattening
grasshoppers, as that was all his fowls had
to live on. Cattle were destructive. Be-
sides eating the juiciest grass, they squashed
the best of his stud-arasshoppers with their
big hoofs, or overlaid them when they
camped, and the black hen and the speckly
rooster suffered in consequence.
“Why don’t you keep pigs?” I asked.
“What ’ill I feed ’em on?” he demanded.
“Make a garden a.nd grow pumpkins.”
“An’ ’ave ’em stole while I’m away ! I’ve
got to go out sometimes for months. This
place won’t keep me. It’s only a ’ome.
Larst time I was away me door was smashed
in, an’ the place ransacked. Me brotherly
neighbors did that. Where would the pun-
kins be? Bust ’em! They’d shake ’em
afore they growed. They even steal me
grasshoppers to fish with !”
“Where do they livp?” I asked.
“In the grass. Damn it all” ——-
“I mean the neighbors.” I hastened to
explain.
“Uo the creek about 10 mile.”
His fierce little eves fairly glittered as he
slewed to the fire and threw one leg across
the other.
After tea he brought out guns and in-
vited me to an hour’s ramble along 1 lie
ridge. He wanted to get some ’possum-skins
before the cold weather was over to make
a rug.
The first ’possum we sighted was. perched
on a post of the back fence—a shot
for a boy with a catapult. Archie* stood
about 10 yards off and let fly. The ’possum
sprang off the post and ran uo a tree, from
a dark limb of which it purred mockingly at
Archibald.
“Fust thing I ever missed in me life!”
he said, in a surprised sort of way. “A
flamin’ moth bobbed in me eye just as I
pulled. They do be bobbin’ about a lot to-
night,” he added, aoologetically.
He started to re-load under the tree while
I mooned the ’possum. Catching it in a
splendid position without giving a thought
to my mate, I let drive. Down it came
thump on to the old fellow’s head. It was
mortally wounded, and for a few seconds
clung desperately to his neck. Archie, bent
double and pivoting round and round,
roared lustily for help. I caught it by the
tail and pulled it off. to the accompaniment
of an ear-splitting yell.
Archie danced about for a bit, brushing
his neck and fuming and spluttering the
while. Then he turned on to me ferociously.
“Gimme that gun, an’ get to L out o’ me
paddock!”
Saying which he snatched the weapon
from my hand, and strode rapidly away in
the direction of home.
When I reached the hut I found my swag
and billy lying outside, and the door shut
and bolted. I gathered them up, and’ in
the moonlight shortened the last stage to
Bungaban, even though there was another
day to-morrow.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
■K
ft
3 *lf
'j
HE?®! 1
Pill 111 IS f
t >. }v« ‘ * VS
."-r T;.
PoßSeV'i v
f!\ rFftf
IWml v < <E
v. 1 !i' a
? - u.\
v;
'
'. -v ' 5 ' ■
&
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westiivghouse Brake
Queensland Agents—Ho'mas & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & ’ike, Wellington.
Co. of Australasia Ltd
CONCORD WEST. N.S. WALES.
ħ
h
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to iSOft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
ĥ
ħ
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAiNE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
Metz-“22 ” £,190
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work ail over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 11. P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, 10$in. clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
-
375 Kent
The British-built
Waverley, *350.
Indian Motocycles,
85gns.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 «««"• *"■«; ■—
Works Sturt Stii South
°».RHSTRO*Q
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong: Traction Well-Boring: Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PUNTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
in its new shape and style has proved extremely popular.
Australia’s National Magazine will contain)some big features during
the year. 'ou cannot afford to miss a single number. Why not
subscribe? Tost free throughout Australia, 0/-; Foreign, 9/-
terns Pm
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
C 3
aisii vas***-
20th Century Band Saw.
KIRCHNERS
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS-
KIRCHNER & GO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
CL
H
and Am
Appeal to Dealers
because their popularity and ready
sale mean quick turn-overs and
fresh stocks.
The Remington-UMC .22 Caliber
Repeating Rifle is easily demon-
strated and its merits quickly appre-
ciated because it can be taken apart
rapidly with the fingers. No tools
needed—“'Simply turn a screw and
pull ” and it can be taken apart and
put together again in a jiffy.
Articles whose merits can be
quickly shown are easy to sell be-
cause the customer can see for him-
self just how good they are. Their
simplicity beg ts confidence.
Salesmen like to sell Remington-UMC
Rifles and Cartridges because they
are just as easy to sell as they are
to use and every customer becomes
a satisfied customer —which means
more customers and more sales.
h
You can possibly secure Remington- UMC
Arms and Ammunition from your wholesale
supplier. If not, write to our representative and he will tell you how
and where you can get them, also send you some interesting descrip-
tive literature and a beautiful colored art hanger. Write to-day.
Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299-301 Broadway ... New York, U. S. A.
Australian Representative: D. D. Bryant, P, O. Box; 656, Melbourne


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
v " . '»
«r
'KfWi '.v\V^
\ -jK ! t. !k . y
FANS
For All Voltages
and Systems.
Stocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigrid Body. Swivel & Trunnion, & Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Stndfor Lists.
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane. 3520 City.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. 5117 City.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul S Roma Streets. 3676 Central
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
£z'
&
m
Be
Sure
and
Specify
PICK’S
BELTING
>SOLB A<3ENTs_
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay
SYDNEY. ’
And MELBOURNE.
TH
11l
>3*
*
96
AmH&
V DALG ET Y & C 9
oh\oh
Union Harvester
m
Zk
a
Clayton & Shuttle-worth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine.
DALGETY 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and an Branches.
AGENCIES .
TAXGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
Yale 8 Towne Manufacturing Co.’s Hoists
,^ e large slacks of Chain Hoists made by the above Co.
kinds and sizes to handle every Hoisting need.
We have four
The Triplex for speed;
The Duplex for handiness ;
The Differential is the cheapest reliable chain block ; and
The Electric for rapid hoisting.
Steel Gears,-Steel Sheave, Steel Chain, Steel Hooks, Steel Cover.
The safety of every Triplex Block is guaranteed.
We would like to show you them in operation, or we would post you Catalogue
and Brices on application.
H. P. GREGORY CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY.
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT. THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
SOLE
V\ M ■
FRANKI, LTD.,
AGENTS,
307-511 Kent Street, Sydney;
and
Street, Melbourne
Wherever the golden fleece is shorn t
the Lister Sheep Shearing Machine
/is famous. /
All parts guaranteed to fit the
“ Wolseley.”
Use Lister spare parts and you’ll have
reached the top note for superiority
and durability in duplicates.
isTen
h
ĥ
ħ
9-13 Young'Stre&t,
SYDNEY.
A...
WM
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving CRaffcutters, Saw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V„ McKA Y, Sunshine, Vic.— Adelaide Brisbane Sydney- —Melbourne.
GARDNER ENGINES
MARINE »»d STATIONARY.
KEROSENE —BENZINE TOWN and SUCTION GAS.
Simplicity Low Running Cost Non-Carbonising.
Highest Class Material and Workmanship No Back Firing.
STOCKS HELD.
m
W -1.
*9
,^sA,
m*W «M# 4
Equitable Building, Sydney
10 George Street, Camperdown
