

r-«a**n ■ 'into? ■■■ ■.
£ WHISKY OF MANY MERITS.
R. a. WATKI2VS & co.„
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street:, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
M-5 W- MONT, DE PIETE D 5)1 Cg LIPI
- - - - - - ' . r . a —"—————"
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Hriiffißi '»»B liii
Eg
—i mx —
fiadleg's Orient fjotel.
OLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
PIONEEI>
LEATHER BELTING
Guaiuntkkd
i -h C. Ludlowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
dsf
imaa
MMSiBACOH
5. H. B
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
L
s
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
\
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
»
■
.
are spe<
•. vi 'j . .V...
to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE-NEWCASTLE
df
w
9
V
No Architect, Builder or House Owner will know the value
of Amhvud to him until he has v seen it seen it in the
piece, or in actual use. It is a new and economical interior
finish that looks like hard, polished wood, and costs a great
deal less. It is obtainable in exact reproductions of Mahogany,
Oak and JeniserOo It is comparatively inexpensive, flay we
show it to you in use ? Our office walls are finished in Amiwud
—so are the wails in the furniture showrooms of David Jones, Ltd.
m
§
r u
IWU
□
n
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
(
D. S. EVANS, \
Australasian Manager, M |
r '
ouse,
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L-*
sdf
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L 1?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“OUEEN OF STATES
BACON and HAMS.
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water:
1st —Rapid absorption. 2nd—Rapid circulation. 3rd— Rapid elimination.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Yol. 35. —N0. 1768.]
[Thursday, January 1, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, -for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


800
( Postages shown
in paren theses. )
PANAMA AND THE CANAL. In Picture
600 Photographs and 16 Colored Plates. 19 /■
A Play in Five Acts.
■■■ ' ‘
Vidler: The Rose of Ravenna
Simpson's Louis Stevenson’s Edinburgh D;
illus. 7/6 (5d.).
Harper’s Aircraft Rook, illus. 4/6 (4d.).
(A. R.): The
km
leton’s
It of Democracy. 3/
Other Races. 4/6 (4d.).
12/6 (6d.).
Technique. 5/6 (2d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., 258 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(t rv
House Plies are Disease
/ Carriere.
f*
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,”
Dept. H., Box 1520,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
trial tin sent post
IMUSTDIE
S.l»)
’yaa/vsoa snowosiod non m3n
yv**4,
TH£ (fim iNStC’f OfSiftOIER.
' . ,* !■'>»» ■
’ 5 }
T -’ vK
sdf
Kills
Cockroaches,
Fleas,
Bug’s,
Mosquitoes.
.
Sold in Tins, 9d. each, Chemists and Stores. Sent post free on receipt of Stamps by the Sole Agents,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd.,
If®
[3
The Red Page
Conrad
Conrad goes serenely on —constructing
contorted masterpieces. Chance (Methuen,
per Dymock’s Lubrary, Sydney) is a strange
macabre story of unforgettable people. But
its method is unashamed, the devious method
of Lord Jim. And this method of quotation
marks, while giving a curious intensity to
the telling, needs close application on the
part of the reader. Conrad' is one of those
authors who are tough. Meredith was an-
other. But both give gracious rewards to
the reader who will wrestle with them. Con-
rad seems to love to focus his characters
through different eyes and from different
aspects. We learn about them piecemeal;
as first one narrator and then another takes
up the thread of the story, and in the telling
quaintly tinges it with his own personality.
Thus we get, as it were, a composite photo-
graph of each character; two or three ob-
jective views of the same individual or the
same incident, which, fused in the mind of
the reader, give an image of extraordinary
.vividness and persistence. It is a curious
method, but it is Conrad’s method; and if he
can get his effects in no other may we must
accept his technique and be thankful that he
has so mastered it.
Jt
Thus in Chance the story is woven from
strands of interest that at first seem to have
no possibility of ultimately being conjoined.
It begins with Powell, the young officer who
gets his first chance of a billet at sea. This
part we have at first hand, from Powell;
then Marlow finds he had heard of Captain
Anthony, and tells us about the Fynes,
for Mrs. Fyne was the Captain’s sister.
Thus we come to the girl who ran away to
marry Anthony; and Marlow tells her re-
markable story, partly from personal obser-
vation, partly through what he had heard
from the Fynes. Thus the story is now
diluted through two personalities: we get
it at third hand. And so it goes on. Mar-
low elicits from Powell the continuation of
his romance, and relates it, again at third
hand. A feat of supreme skill; but surely,
for anyone but Conrad, an unnecessary feat.
“Maybe,” as Marlow says, “that a glimpse
and no more is the proper way of seeing an
individuality. .. .A little is as good as a
feast—perhaps better. If one has a taste
for that kind of thing the merest starting-
point becomes a coign of vantage, and then
by a series of logically deducted verisimili-
tudes one arrives at truth —or very near the
truth —as near as any circumstantial evi-
dence can do.” Thus Conrad defends his
method.
Yet, strangely colored and warmed by its
passage through its human media, there is,
at heart, a romantic and arresting story,
glowing with emotion. The tragic girl,
daughter of the colossal figure that began as
a financier and ended as a convict, the de-
lightfully commonplace Fynes. the demoniac
governess and her strange lover, the too-
romantic Captain, the impressionable young
officer, and the cynical figure of Marlow
make up a collection of noteworthy and ex-
traordinarily interesting characters. There
are pictures, too, such as that of the release
of the convict and the scenes in the cabin,
that are equally unforgettable. There is no
need to detail the plot; but some aspect of
the power and the wonder of the story may
be gleaned here and there.
There is first of all Marlow’s philosophy —
and in Marlow we may justifiably see as
much of Conrad as he ever lets us see.
As to honor —you know—it’s a very fine
medieval inheritance which women never got
hold of. It wasn’t theirs. Since it may be
laid down as a general principle that women
always get what they want, we must, sup-
pose they didn’t want it. In addition they
are devoid of decency. I mean masculine
decency. .. What prevents women from “com-
ing on deck and playing hell with the ship”
generally, is that something in them precise
and mysterious, acting both as restraint and
as inspiration ; their femininity, in short,
which they think they can get rid of by
trying hard, but can’t, and never will.
Therefore we may conclude that, for all
their enterprises, the world is and remains
safe enough....
I call a woman sincere when she volun-
teers a statement resembling remotely in
form what she really would like to say,
what she thinks ought to be said if it were
not for the necessity to spare the stupid sen-
sitiveness of men. The women’s rougher,
simpler, more upright judgment embraces the
whole truth, which their tact, their mistrust
of masculine idealism, ever prevents them
from speaking in its entirety. And their
tact is unerring. We could not stand women
speaking the truth. We could not bear it.
It would cause infinite misery and bring
qbout the most awful disturbances in this
rather mediocre, but still idealistic, fools’
paradise in which each of us lives his own
little life. And they know it. They are
merciful. ...
If women were not a force in nature,
blind in its strength and capricious in its
powei\ they would not be mistrusted. As
it is one can’t help it....Man has cap-
tured electricity, too. It lights him on his
way. It warms his home, it will even cook
his dinner for him —very much like a
woman. But what sort of conquest would
you call it? He knows nothing of it. He
has got to be mighty careful what he is
about with his captive. And the greater
the demand he makes on it in the exulta-
tion of his pride, the more likely it is to
turn on him and burn him to a cinder....
As abundance of experience is not pre-
cisely her lot in life, a woman is seldom
an expert in matters of sentiment. It is
the man who can and generally does “see
himself” pretty well inside and out.
Women’s self-possession is an outward
thing; inwardly they flutter, perhaps be-
cause they are, or they feel themselves to
be, encaged....
A woman may be a fool, a sleepy fool, an
agitated fool, a too-awfully noxious , fool,
and she may even be simply stupid. But
she is never dense. She’s never made of
wood through and through as some men are.
There is in woman always, somewhere, a
spring. Whatever men don’t know about
women, men and even fathers do know that
much. And that is why so many nifin are
afraid of them.
Thus Marlow on Woman, who becomes,
with the finer minds of modern literature,
an increasing preoccupation.
J*
And at the end the tragedy softens into
a quiet afterglow. How fine is the prose
rhythm in Flora’s words, recalling that
wonderful sentence at the end of Ro-
mance!
“Adventuress!” repeated Flora slowly.
“So be it. I have had a fine adventure.
The finest in the world! Only think ! I
loved and I was loved, untroubled, at peace,
without remorse, without fear. All the
world, all life were transformed for me.
And how much I have seen! How good
people were to me! Yes, I have known
kindness and safety. The most familiar
things appeared lighted up with a new light,
clothed with a loveliness I had never sus-
pected. The sea itself!.... It was too good
to last. But nothing can rob me of it
now.... Yes, I have been happy.”
The Published Play
No dramatist, it has been said, has written
tragedy with so light a hand or comedy with
so ironically pathetic a smile as Arthur
Schnitzler. / This Viennese physician made
his name at the age of 30, he
published Ms Anatol, a cycle of delightful
one-act episodes of that sort of love that is
not married. Several of these little plays
have been produced by repertory organisa-
tions in the Commonwealth; and their
dramatic quality, their humor and psycho-
logical penetration are so noteworthy that
Anatol promises to be frequently revived.
Yet Schnitzler’s strength lies rather in the
creation of atmosphere than in the elabora-
tion of dramatic technique, and he remains,
with this limitation, a writer of one-act
plays. A slim volume of three such plays,
containing The Green Cockatoo, The Mate,
and Paracelsus (Gay and Hancock) has been
translated by H. D. Samuel. Paracelsus,
written in blank verse, shows the famous
doctor hypnotising a good citizen’s wife, and
making her say things hidden and unsus-
pected by her husband. And the poor man
wonders, “Was it in earnest? Was’t play?”
Paracelsus replies:
It was a play! What were it otherwise?
What is not play we ply upon this earth,
Howe'er so great and so profound it seems?
Tor one ivill play with hordes of soldiers
ivild,
Another plays with superstition mad,
Someone, perchance, with suns and planets —
I play with human souls. And he alone
Will find a sense ivho seeks owe.
We, ever play: who knows it, he is wise.
The interest of the play lies in the mingling
of truth and pretence: the reader and the
husband are left wondering whether, after
all, the hypnotised woman might not have
spoken the truth?
d*
This merging of the real with the unreal
appears frequently in Schnitzler’s plays. In
The Green Cockatoo, which is the name of
a tavern in Paris, pretence and reality mas-
querade in an amazing manner. On the
night of the taking of the Bastille, all the
characters —and there are 22 of them in
this “grotesquerie in one act” —meet in this
underground room. The host, who was for-
merly an actor, has made his tavern a resort
of the aristocracy by the expedient of turn-
ing it into a curious kind of theatre. His
troupe masquerade as criminals, and for the
delectation of their elegant audience, “tell
blood-curdling stories of things that never
happened to them —speak of crimes they
have never committed.... and the audience
that comes here enjoys the pleasant titilla-
tion of hobnobbing with the most dangerous
rabble in Paris —swindlers, burglars, mur-
derers.... It does ’em good. It gives a fillip
to their jaded senses.” And the host, to
complete the illusion, showers curses upon
his elegant guests. In his position his famili-
arities are laughingly condoned, but his
hatred is real.
Into this curious theatrical company
intrudes a criminal, whose “make-up” turns
out to be real. The host promptly engages
him to tell the gruesome story of the murder
he had committed: it will give a touch of
realism to the- performance: the stories of
some of his company have lacked convincing
detail. The aristocrats arrive ; the perform-
ance begins... .and outside the mob is storm-
ing the Bastille. An actor rushes in, crying
that he has set fire fo the house of the
President of the Supreme Court—he red'll y
has —and to the amusement of the guests
the real criminal and the imitation criminal
drink to the death of all judges. “Reality
passes into play—play into reality.” The
real murderer's account of his crime is
proclaimed amateurish. One of the audience,
however, gets a glimpse of the state of
affairs. “There is,” he explains, “a flash
of reality running through the whole thing.
That is the chief charm.”
The chief actor, who has just married an
actress of loose reputation, enters theatri-
cally exclaiming that he has just killed her
lover, the duke. He describes the murder in
graphic language. The host and the others,
who knew that the duke was her lover, are
convinced that the duke is slain, and Henri
learns, for the first time that the duke was
her lover. The whole thing was a piece of
acting; the duke lives. A moment later he
enters, and Henri kills him. The actual
murder comes as an anti-climax to the mur-
derer’s graphic account of the murder he
had pretended to commit. Then comes the
news of the fall of the Bastille; the mob
takes charge, and the slayer of a duke is
its natural leader. The insults of the host
and his troupe ring true. It is the beginning
of the Revolution.
d*
A remarkable drama, intensely theatrical,
charged with grim humor and a mordant
wit. The third play, The Mate , is a “pro-
blem” play of the most modern Viennese
character. It shows a middle-aged husband
who had given an almost paternal benedic-
tion to his young wife’s liaison, raising it,
in his mind, to the level of a grand passion
for his assistant, only to find, on his wife’s
death, that what he had sentimentally con-
sidered a grand passion was merely a prq-
miscuous intrigue. The affair, at which lie
had connived, turns out to lj>e but one of
many. His wife was as incapable of a
grand passion as she was of faithfulness to
him. A quite Viennese attitude.
The Rose of Ravenna, by Edward A. Vid-
ler, charmingly produced by George Robert-
son, Meib., with decorations by Walter S-eed,'
is a conventional drama of Paolo and Fran-
cesca, done with considerable facility, but
.with few signs of dramatic craftsmanship or
dramatic invention. Its dramatic interest
lies rather in its well-known subject than in
its presentation. And it is, perhaps, almost
unnecessary to mentiou that Vidler’s drama
lacks the poetic appeal of its predecessor,
Stephen Phillips’ Paolo and Francesca. The
blank verse is pedestrian but smooth; the
characterisation betrays no psychological
subtlety, and the situations are convention-
ally contrived. A painstaking attempt on a
subject that could hardly fail utterly on the
stage. For the audience would read into the
author’s words the poetry and the pathos
that belongs to the story. The finest thing
is the ending, where in the words of Gio-
vanni above the dead bodies of the lovers:
Go, go! Bid all the ivorld come here to
judge —
Condemn me! O most horrible! Paolo!
Francesca! O most horrible! >
the author achieves a naive simplicity dram-
atically effective.
The pageant play, as defined by Louis
N. Parker, in Ms note to his Biblical drama,
Joseph and his Brethren (Lane), is an at-
tempt to tell the entire history of a subject-
place or man. As in his Drake, so in this
play Parker tells the whole story of his
hero. “The unities of time and locality go
by the board, and are replaced by the unities
of idea and personality.” The author has
used the Bible, the Koran and the Talmud for
the foundation of his script. The staging of
this vivid drama requires all the facilities
of modern stage-craft and a big theatre.
There are 13 scenes in the four acts, each
scene requiring an enormous “set” and the
aid of hosts of auxiliaries. In nearly
all the scenes the background is filled
in by crowds in movement. Thus in one
the stage direction runs : “Outside the
hall there is a constant passing to and fro of
the traffic of a city. Now a noble rides up
on a charger, followed by his slaves, who
help him to dismount, and he enters the hall:
then a richly-clad lady is led on in a chariot
drawn by horses, and as she descends an
admiring crowd gathers round her. Pres-
ently a procession of priests moves by, chant-
ing. A chieftain f rom a distant province
rides up on a came, followed by his body-
guard of armed retainers.” Evidently the
“supers” and the live stock are kept busy.
And the cast is almost a crowd in itself.
Though ostentatiously based upon the
Bible story of the. first corner in corn, the
play has no religious appeal. Josepn is
merely the Hebrew speculator, the direct an-
cestor of Steel Trust magnates and the
middlemen of Sussex-street. Sydney; and he
calls upon his God as a business man would
call upon his solicitor. It is the job of
Joseph’s God to get Joseph out of trouble,
wells, and the wiles of Potiphar’s wife. It
is a box-office axiom that every religious
play must have in it one luscious tempta-
tion-scene. Unless a hero is comprehensively
tempted, the audience has no guarantee that
he is a hero. And in this play there is little
doubt left on the mind of the reader that
Joseph was adequately tempted : “She twines
her arms about his neck and lays her head
on his breast.... She bends over him and
kisses him long on the lips.” But, even in
that embarrassing moment Joseph remembers
his Clod, and dashes out, leaving his cloak
behind.
(Zuleilca is on her knees clutching the
cloak he has left in her hand. After a
moment's stupor she rises to her 1 full height.
She raises her hands, grasping the cloak in
her left hand and her dagger in her right, to
the goddess.)
Zuleika : Smite him, thou ! Slay him ! Art
thou a goddess and can’st not blast kimV
(With a sudden revulsion she clasps the
cloak to her breast.) Nay! I love thee!
I love thee! I love thee! (She sinks
on the couch in a frenzy, and stabs and
slashes the cloak with her dagger.) I
would this, were thy heart! 1 would I
had let thee rot in thy well! (Another
change.) Thy' lips! Thy lips! (She
presses the cloak frantically to her
lips.)
Louis N. Parker must have noticed how
curiously alike all these peoples of the Bible
are. There was Salome and the head of
John, and now Zuleika and the cloak of
Joseph. And how theatrically effective is a
“sudden revulsion,” especially a series of
“sudden revulsions”! The pageant play is
hardly an art-form at all; but its elaborate
setting provides a feast for the eye, and its
crude emphasis tells the story more forcibly
than does a motion-picture.
Australia is the most backward country
in the world in regard to aviation. While
in every corner of Europe hundreds of aero-
planes are making ascents every day of the
week, there is not one aeroplane flying, even
occasionally, anywhere on this continent.
Hence Aviation, by Algernon E. Berriman
(Methuen, per George Robertson, Sydney),
comes like a child’s Ibrst primer to Aus-
tralians. But this volume, whose author is
the editor of Flight, is the most valuable
and interesting book yet written upon this
fascinating subject. The author treats popu-
larly and, when necessary, severely technic-
ally of every aspect of aeronautics. Chap-
ters are devoted to the constructional fea-
tures of the aeroplane, equilibrium in the
air. lateral balance and longitudinal
stability, steering, principles of propulsion,
resistance, the cambered wing, hydro-aero-
planes, accidents and paper models ; while the
long history of man’s attempt to fly, the
work of various experimenters, and the
latest conquests of aeronautics are exhaus-
tively detailed. In the big appendix the
technical and mathematical side of the im-
mense subject is elucidated. In fact, the
book is indispensable to every experimenter
in aeronautics —and there should be many
in Australia. It is pleasing to note that
enthusiastic commendation is given of the
valuable work of Lawrence Hargreaves,, of
Sydney. Yet so rapid is the progress of
this new science that already the book is, in
one respect, out of date. No mention is
made of the latest feats of aerial tumbling
that have astonished the world. It is curi-
ous to note, however, that the author men-
tions, under the heading of accidents, sev-
eral cases in which an aeroplane has cap-
sized in the air, and the pilot has succeeded
in righting it or allowing it to right itself,
and descending in safety. Especially inter-
esting is the description of the now cele-
brated Dunne aeroplane, with its revolu-
tionary design, utterly unlike that of any
other aeroplane, and its officially certified
feats of automatic stability and safety, with-
out the pilot touching its controls. Had we
an up-to-date aeronautic military depart-
ment in Australia, at least one of these
marvellous machines would now be in Aus-
tralia. The price of this valuable volume,
written by an acknowledged expert, is, in
England, 10s. 6d.
Several of the Rymbels sent in for the guinea
prize for the best Rytnbel received by January
30th fail to observe the condition that the last
word of the last verse must be the key-word
for the first word of the first stanza, thus
binding the foolish, loose-limbed thing to-
gether. Thus, if you end with Bulletin, you
must start your rymble with the words bullet
in, or with a word beginning with the syl-
lable tin.
Entries for the sonnet on an Australian
Depember must reach this page by January
3rd. Another half-guinea is offered for the
best sonnet on our January, to reach us by
February 4.
“Modern European literature and music
now form a Bible far surpassing in import-
ance to us the ancient Hebrew Bible that
has served us so long,” says Shaw in his
new edition of The Quintessence of Ibsen-
ism (Constable). “The notion that inspira-
tion is something that happened thousands
of years ago, and was then finished and
done with, never to occur againin other
words, the theory that God retired from
business at that period and has not since
been heard from, is as silly as it is blas-
phemous. He who does not believe that
revelation is continuous does not believe in
revelation at all. There comes a time when
the formula ‘Also sprach Zarathustra’ suc-
ceeds to the formula. ‘Thus saith the Lord,’
and when the parable of the doM’s house is
more to our purpose than the parable of the
prodigal son.”


34604
a.
XL
BE WISE! BUY YOUR NEW YEARS GIFTS AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES
No. 8780.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair
Dudley design
Brush,
.19/6
No. 1801 b.—-sterling Silver-mounted Mirror, Fancy
design .. 17/-
No. 1871 c
mounted
pire and Km
rling Silver-
nd Mirror, Em-
2B/6
No. 1871.—Sterling
Silver-mounted Hair
Brush, Empire Wreath
design ... 17/6, 22/6
No. 1887.
Brushes,
design
Same design
ver-mount 3tl Toilet Set, consisting of two Hair
i', Cloth a .d Hat Blush and Comb, Bird and Mask
£3/10/-, £5
with two Hair Brushes, Mirror and Comb.. £3/12/-
No. 1864Cx.—Sterling Silver-mounted Cloth
Brush, Ribbon design 15/6
No. 1895 s Sprays, of Light
and Dark Green Glass, with Gold Embossed
Design and Gilt Syphon, 2 sizes, 3/3, 4/3
POSTAGE MUST BE ADDED
TO THE PRICES QUOTED.
No. 1805.—Oblong Bevelled Mir-
rors, in Nickel Frames, Stand at back,
6 sizes, 5/9, 6/3, 6/9, 9/-, 10/6
No
- ■
1
. 1871a.—Sterling Silver-mounted
Hand Mirror, Empire Wreath design, 26/-
No. 1892.—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair
Design
Brush,
-' ■■■:■
-
No. 1861 a Silver-mounted Hand Mirror, Ribbon
Design 52/-
No. 1891.—Sterling
Silver-mounted Hair
Brush, Fancy design,
20/-
No. 1891 a Silver-
mounted Hand Mirror, Fancy
design 28/6
No. 1822c.—Sterling Silver-mounted Toilet Set,
consisting of two Hair Brushes, Mirror and Comb, in
Satin-Lined Case 40/-, 45/-, to 60/-
APTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
U niversal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


d
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
“•New Rival"
No black powder cartridges have so many strong
points to recommend them as Winchester “New
Rival.” Their uniform shooting qualities are due to
the fact that the shells are made of high-class,
tested materials, and loaded with the best brands
of powder, shot and wadding. The patented
corrugated head, and the solid, gas-tight, fire-
proof base construction used in Winchester
cartridges, coupled with a system o.
loading which gives invariable results, pro- <
duces a quality that is unsurpassed.
Insist Upon Having Winchester, The
W Brand. Sold The World Over.
mt
Wi
'M
tfbfy ;
r>>ii
aw
I v \
iff
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE,
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
ARE PREPARED TO PURCHASE ORES, CONCENTRATES AND
FURNACE PRODUCTS containing Gold and Copper at most favor-
able rates.
ALSO TO INSPECT MINING PROPERTIES with a view to Develop-
ing, Financing, or Purchasing same.
Address : MR. B. MAGNUS, General Manager, MOUNT MORGAN, QUEENSLAND.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 18S8 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Frse.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
LI
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FountSiriPen
“Safety” Type — No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag —doesn’t matter
a bit. the Pen can’t leak—it’s sealed when
open and sealed when closed As a pen
absolutely ellicient. Writes smoothly, with-
out spurting or faltering ; lasts a lifetime.
Nibs to suit every hand.
15/- and upwards.
Of Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, England.
AUSTRALIA—3SO, George St.,
Sydney.
r
' v'W
■V"V»
V
ob
W777777777/7/7/7///.
rti
11l
The rider
fda
who likes a neat, compact saddle with ample provision
for comfort will appreciate our model B 302: It is
clean-cut and trim in appearance, gives a low riding posi-
tion, and the stranded springs and four-wire framing yield
a pleasing resiliency sufficient to absorb all road shocks.
Naturally, being a Brooks, it is scientifically shaped and
beautifully made. An extremely pretty and comfortably
saddle. We also make a model 8302 L for ladies.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
. •
mm*
k
j|p I
R ' -r'l
■ ■
•' . ' ' ■
*
-
GENTLEMEN, —
The beautiful MISS VIOLET
PAGET, the Anglo-Australian
actress who has just completed
a very successful six months'
season at the historic “Little
Theatre," Gastlereagh Street,
Sydney, writes her emphatic
opinion of the curative value
for weak nerves and mental
exhaustion of the great medicine
CLEMENTS TONIC
“I cannot speak too highly of the benefit I derived from the use of
your Clements Tonic. I sleep well and feel strong again. I recommend
it to anyone -suffering from loss of strength and poor appetite. It is a
wonderful health restorer. „ /ri . -n™ „
. ‘(Signed) VIOLET PAGET.”
This medicine is without equal for the relief of Insomnia, Brain-fag, Acute
Neuralgia, Palpitation, Nerve Weakness, Depression, Indigestion or Constipation.
It gives the nerves new force.
ALL CHEMISTS and STORES SELL IT.
GET IT and GET WELL!


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
Ad the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an . adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND b MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ’’ cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for hair.
ROWLANDS
Macassar Oil!
ts sold by Stores , Chemists , and
ROWLANDS , 67, Hatton Carden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the satne
O' simi/a •* va v/c
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
f
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to youf
f Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
(Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
kc£H T s £3. 10 to £9
Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
APTNTQ wantef * * n each district. Write
Au LPIIi) at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and ouf
Special Offer on sample machine. .
MEAD
CYCLE <
Beat, A 282
COMPANY,
LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for MEAD CYCLES-
*»■ VAL. D. COLE, Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
H IMROD’S
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cpld, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
We have been manufactur-
ing ammunition since the
early years of the last
century, and no ammuni-
tion manufacturer or loader
handles or loads a greater
variety of shot gun powders,
consequently our experi-
ence of the styles of pow-
ders and the specificationsof
loads which give the great-
est satisfaction to sports-
men is second to none.
ELEY Cartridges contain the
standard loads of powdei* and
49
m
&
rmiA!
mi
m
<9
IA
lA
shot as marked cn
boxes. Shooters
should beware of
all Cartridges the
loads of which
are not specified
on the boxes.
Eley Cartridges are ■
obtainable from all
Gunmakcrs &Dealers.
Agent:'
Albert Adams,
420. George Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
Elcy Bros.
Limited
London
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
I /
■*>
/■ .
§
Good for -
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this ren<dy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BONN I NGTON’S'
1/6 & 2/6.
RUNKENNESS Cured.
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN
SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person
of either sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a last-
ing antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days
with this treatment. . . Send 2d. stamp for FRILIL SAMPLE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., DEPT. 4, MARKET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
df
wpicosr
nins
w
v v
Send for This Book and get rid
for ever of your Varicose Veins!
Kellyville, N.S.W., Oct. 2, 1!>13.
VECSEY VARIX-ARIII SI.
Dear Sir, —.last a few words of tlianlts to your
wonderful cure of varicose veins and ulcers. 1
had been a sufferer for twenty-four years, had
been to doctors, laid up for three months at a
time, and sot up. hut in a short time just as had
as ever, and spent pounds on different treatments,
all no sood. 1 was readins your ad., and thought
t would try it, but did not expect to he cured.
I sot a month’s treatment. After the first week
file pain left me and I could sleep at night- I
thought I would he unite satisfied lor that*alone;
I kept on with your treatment and in six weeks’ time
my leg was unite healed and flic veins disappeared, and
that is almost two years ago. Dozens said I would
never he cured, hut your treatment has made a perfect
cure. I have reeommeirded it to others, and it has cured
them also. T cannot thank you enough for the suller-
ings your cure has saved me. I was under doctors in
tV.A., Queensland and Sydney, hut now lam sure I anf
cured I will recommend to all.
I am, yours faithfully,
(SKd.) E. .1. AGNEVV.
If you suffer from Varicose Veins or Ulcers, or both, I believe that 1 can completely cure you.
I have treated hundreds of terrible cases with the utmost success, and I know that but very tew
LseS are really incurable. Very few doctors tell you they <3*ll cure this trouble. They prefer to
ig-nore it Doctors could not cure me. I cured myself. I then cured my friends, and then made
hundreds of new friends by curing people who had suffered in some cases for a quarter of a
century Hence I believe 1 can cure y0u....1t will pay.you wellfn^mvwtwte^my^in^od^
harmless
perfectly
You nm no'Viskr’You'’can’lo^'nothinir'if 'i should fail: but, I have built up a large business—
not on failures, but on successes in cases formerly given up as hopeless. Let me send you
hundreds of grateful testimonials.
FREE BOOK
Send 2d. stamp for
and advice FREE.
our free hook, which gives full particulars. Diagnosis
Send or Write to-day.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 Ash Street, Sydney. (!«:«)
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—R API I).
The Entire Top Open.
xmi
<0
mi
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and scaling cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
SOl< That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
for packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 08 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible clnngcs is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BA* NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK,
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and -Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOIvLKi
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes' “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but at tel taking your treatment for I),days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Trice Gd.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,,
In use since i^.
CUBES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your Chemist for its history—the book is free-or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
vARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chinese Bride.
He bars his silver door with gold,
His silver door, his silver door.
A butterfly snared from the wold
Fell broken on a marble floor ;
A lotus bud, plucked from the pond
Of gold fish in the water grass,
Dreamed of its shelter cool and fond,
And withered in the bowl of brass.
Outside the courtyard, by the gate
Bronzed o’er with dragons breathing tire,
Where beggars peer to watch my state,
The price of an old man’s desire,
A cherry tree drifts rosy snow.
O cherry tree! O cherry tree !
Full many a lost caress you blow
Across the gates of bronze to me!
The pine tree, wise and famed in story,
Bends not before the summer wind,
But I was just a Morning Glory.
A clinging thing of ardent mind
To curl round searching finger-tips;
No marriage chair can make me cold,
No vow lock silence to my lips,
Nor silver panel barred with gold !
The mulberry boughs are lightly green,
The rain is on the rieefields now ;
It laughs the thickening twigs between
A veil upon the mountain’s brow;
It wakes the Spring with subtle stirs
In breaking bush and budding tree,
And drips in jewels from the firs
Upon the yellow monastery.
The charcoal brazier dully burns
Because a sly sunbeam slipped in ;
And-ever youth to hot youth turns,
Despite the talk of gods and sin ;
So my heart flies to one who waits
Alone, alone for evermore —
And, sick for cherry blossom, hates
The gold bar on the silver door.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Gypsy’s Star.
The long road, the wide road, is ever a
friend of mine,
Fdr I am Kin to the wandering folk, and
friend to the forest pine,
A breeze may call through its branches, he
it ever so soft and low,
I always awake and answer—l always
arise and go !
When I was born a restless star swung o'er
'm.v baby bead,
A gypsy’s love the star had been, in days
that long were dead ;
It twinkled with an elfish light, it danced
with silent glee,
And then it gave the gypsy’s heart, a wild-
ing thing, to me!
My mother was a peasant lass of homely
.rustic birth.
My father was a laboring man, of sturdy
yeoman worth 4
They knew not of the gift that made me
different from the rest —
They knew not that a gypsy’s heart was
throbbing in my breast!
When from the trees the mad wind tore the
banners red and gold,
Tliey shut the doors and windows, and they
shuddered with the cold.
But I—it sang within my blood and ham-
mered through my brain !
I left the sheltered ingle-nook to follow in
its train.
I left the sheltered ingle-nook and followed
fast and far,
And so I follow to this day, led by a witch-
ing star;
It lures me on by divers wiles —a word, a
vagrant tune,
The ripple on a dreaming lake beneath a
silver moon!
The sunset gives me vintage tine and jewels
rich and rare,
The one to drink a kingly toast- —to pledge
a oueenly fair.
The jewels red I bind around my brow to
make a crown,
Until I fling them to the Night, to deck
her sable gown!
She smiles upon the giving, and with mur-
murous voice' she tells
A tale of olden faery, like a chime of far,
faint bells ;
To my ear alone she whispers, as the swift
hours hasten by,
And all the while my little star goes laugh-
ing down the sky !
She laughs and nods and twinkles in the
sapphire sea above,
To think of how the gypsy’s heart, with hll
the gypsy’s love
Keeps still the ancient gypsy law —knows
naught of chain or bar—
Oh, well I know how glad it makes that little
restless star !
And when the revel’s over, and the sky turns
pearly-grey,
The Night gives up her kingdom, and she
leaves the throne to Day,
Who, like a jocund monarch, with smile and
quin for goad,
Bids me arise from dreaming, and seek the
Open Road !
The long road, the wide road, is ever a
friend of mine,
For I am kin to the ivandering folk, and
friend, to the forest pine.
A breeze mag call through its branches, be
it ever so soft and low,
1 always awake and answer —I always arise
and go!
N.S.W,
NADA.


BEFORE PURCHASING A PIANO
CALL IN to MARCUS CLARK’S NEW FURNITURE
WAREHOUSE, and INSPECT THE
SCHIEDMAYER 8 SOEHNE
—
BE WISE and buy a PIANO
WORTH WHILE —one that
will NEVER FAIL YOU.
THE “SCHEEDMAYER & SOEHNE”
(Stuttgart) is Manufactured by a Firm
that has been making Pianos for the
past 130 years.
MODEL C, as illustrated, is solidly constructed, and is looked upon by connois-
seurs as one of the Best Instruments Made. It possesses a beautiful tone, and is
made with a rich, handsome, Rosewood Case. ’
£95.
Our PIANO CATALOGUE will be forwarded, post' free, on application.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. Ltd.
Railway Square, George Street, SYDNEY.
sms
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
CRACKAJACK Senior "
Tgg&te'^WlM
. ' ifel ~.’J H j ](o J :jj :
BUILT
TO
BEAT
THE
BAND
“Crackajack Mouth Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES.
Crackajack Professional. 40 Reeds. 3/-
~ Senior 20 ~ 2 -
.. Junior 20 ~ 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reede, l/«
Boss Cracker 20 „ 1..'«
Crackajack Cadet 20 „ 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
e ALLAN & CO. Pty. Ltd.. Melbourne, Adelaide. Beodlgo. Geelong,
fit m
+ **EWt?Zi
ds
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc.—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
GOOD GARDENS
will result from
GOOD WATERINGS
with a
GOOD RUBBER HOSE.
WATERSHED
Red Rubber
Garden Hose
is the best you can buy.
Made in 60ft. lengths.
•Jin. x 3-p]y 9d. per ft.
30ft., complete with fittings.. 24/3
60ft., complete with fittings.. 45/6
fin. x 3-ply 1/- per ft.
30ft., complete with fittings'. 31/9
60ft., complete with fittings.. 60/6
5^
Sf.t6
m
»
9?
We also manufacture three other grades of Black Rubber Hose. Particulars
and prices are m our new Summer Catalogue. Send for a copy. Post Free.
“Watershed” Hose is obtainable from all leading Storekeepers throughout
Australia, or direct from the Manufacturers.
0
Rubber Co. Ltd.
SHI-NOLEUM '
Nothing' Else
When you ask your Storekeeper for a tin
of Shi-Noleum, be firm and take nothing
else, as you may be sure that an imitation is
not offered for your benefit.
Shi-IN oleum has a fine
reputation as the best polish for
Linoleums and Furniture, it is so
easy to use that it enables the busy
housekeeper to do her work in
half the usual time.
k Sold in every State in
& the Commonwealth.
270 George Street, SYDNEY
Also MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
A
X' :
*v.
LANDIS SCREWING MACHINES
Are Cost Reducers on All Classes
of Threading.
Landis 1| Triple-Head Screwer.
Bolt threading,
p i p e threading,
nipple threading—
all show substan-
tial savings in time
and labor when
done on “Landis”
Machines, the chief
feature of which is
the “Landis” All-
Steel Die Head.
With the “Landis”
Die there is no
need of buying and
keeping up an ex-
pensive stock of
hobbs —no rehob-
bing is necessary
—no retempering.
“Landis” Chasers
are hardened their
entire length ; when
a cutting edge gets
dull, simply grind
off the end of the
chaser until a new
edge is formed.
You have a practically new die every time fresh cutting edges are ground on the
chasers, and chasers can be ground to any rake, to suit different materials, and give
maximum efficiency under all conditions of service. The bevel on the “Landis”
Chaser forms the throat of the die on which grinding is never done. This permanent
throat permits cutting close to shoulders, or the heads of bolts, when required.
Another advantage: With “Landis” All-Steel Dies, and the “Landis” method of
securing them, permanent accuracy is assured, no matter how many times the
chasers are reground or renewed. There is also economy—“ Landis” Dies outlast
other dies 10 to 20 times.
Over 100 “Landis” Screwing Machines and Heads sold in Australia since their
introduction here three years ago.
Send to us for Catalogue which tells You
How you can save money on your tbreaded products.
How you can increase the life of threading: dies twenty-fold.
How you can increase your output without additional labor cost.
How you can reduce your die equipment.
How to protect pipe dies against split and twisted pipe.
Why the Dandis Die is superior in every respect to the hobbed type.
Many things you would like to know concerning: thread-cutting generally.
WE STOCK THESE MACHINES.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
Full Stock of all Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—N0 1768.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 1, 1914.
Trice fill.
THE NURSE, THE KID AND W. SIKES.
The Privy Council has decided that the Commonwealth of Australia is not entitled to inquire into the operation of Trusts or Rings over which it has at present no control.
THE BOY: “Hey, there! What is that fellow doing!”
THE NURSE: “Hush, hush, my boy! You mustn’t ask questions about him! You’ve got no control over those matters."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets.
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Per Annum .. .. ..£l6O
Half-yearly • .. .. .. 013 6
Quarterly .. .. . . . . 0 7 0
Ily sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings Sterling you can have The Bulletin
posted regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques. Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Hits mess Communications to be addressed to The
M anager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to ay extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. "The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and. where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles. Verse, Short
Tales ar Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects. and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotcli. Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Can apa.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia. U.S.A. ; W. E. Lenehan. 585
20th Street. San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets. Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Redder Street.
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillic Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia , Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at
if /6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in,
;r, lljin.. and gelatine transparencies ivill be for-
trarded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commumcealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea. Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route. 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: 80s., Id., Bloz.
io 10oz., Sid.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 40z.,
Id., and Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 1, 3914.
TREASURERS, BUSHRANGERS AND
SUNDRIES.
Now that the smoke of political battle has
to some extent cleared away in New South
Wales, and the dead marines have been
buried, and the broken promises have been
put in splints, and the wounded feelings have
been carried to the hospital for repair, and
the decayed aspersions have been shovelled
.up, the question arises what the next three
years will be like. The Holman Govern-
ment, if it is given the benefit of the doubt
in every possible way, and is acquitted of all
suspicion of disreputable electioneering tac-
tics, has climbed back into power by a
species of corruption that can’t possibly last.
Corruption may consist in the vulgar device
of buying individual votes on a cash basis,
and in directly purchasing the support of
Smith and McDougall and Mulligan
with a sinecure or a pension or a job. That
is a crude, low-down arrangement which
shocks the feelings of every well-regulated
politician, and leads always to scandal
gnd sometimes to gaol. But on the
other hand it is possible to buy the
support of sections of the community
without any visible and disreputable
dealings witn any individual Smith or
McHougall or Mulligan. The result can
be achieved by the expenditure of loan
moneys in ways that wilt especially benefit
these sections ; by pawning future generations
which have no vote to-day, and handing out
the proceeds of the deal to the present gen-
eration which has a vote, and a very useful
one; and generally by posing as a personal
benefactor with other people’s money, and
collecting personal support in return for a
bogus liberality for which somebody else will
have to pay. The Tammany Hall process
consists mainly in robbing a large, unorgan-
ised section of the community and buying
with the plunder the support of a small, well-
organised section. It is akin to brigandage
and own brother to bushranging. There is
at least this much to be said in its defence —
that the bushranger, whether he bushranges
on the highway with firearms or in the city
hall with a pen and ink and a fraudulent
ledger, takes the risk that the people he robs
will one day get together and rend him. He
loots someone of his own size, which sug-
gests that he has courage of a sort. The
politician who pawns posterity, and uses the
money thus raised in unprofitable jobs which
buy him personal support and profit and
popularity, loots somebody much below his
own size. He ranks politically with Noah
Claypole and similar artists in the “kinchen
lay” line of business. His offence is akin to
“snowdropping,” which is the act of em-
bezzling clothes off a line. He isn’t a bush-
ranger. That branch of industry is too big for
him. Nor is he a brigand—not even a Mexi-
can brigand. That specialist knows that the
rurales will have a shooting match with him
sooner or later, and the rurales are full-
grown men. The political adventurer who
sells posterity to the foreign capitalist, in
order to purchase support with the money,
merely takes the chance that the infant will
hit him with his feeding bottle, and he relies
on the fact that the infant is a bad shot.
* * * *
In politics honesty is, unfortunately, a
dull brown sort of virtue. It isn’t inspir-
ing. It stands for sobriety and plodding
industry, while the kind of thing with which
llolman and Co. acquire power represents
the garish young drunk, the first opium
dream, the hilarious day when the youthful
clerk goes out to Flemington in the spring
to back the dead-sure Cup winner with the
money which he embezzled from his em-
ployer, Jones, the house-agent. The really
bright period in the life of Charles Surface
was that in which he was living at the
rate of £lOO a minute, partly on his own
capital and partly on other people’s capital,
but in the ancient comedy the young waster’s
uncle came to his relief, and saved him from
doing a final perish in the gutter. Hol-
man’s uncle, unhappily, won’t come to his
relief; that uncle will merely come along
with the bill. But when the bill comes along
llolman will almost certainly be absent, like
Duncan Gillies and many another politi-
cal absconder of great borrowing tonnage.
From some place far away the official profli-
gate watches his successor struggling with
the slump and the arrears, and remarks that
things were a heap better when he was in
office. Now and then, but very rarely, the
great boomster makes the mistake of coming
back to office after his bubble has burst, to
show how things ought to be done. Julius
Vogel, who was almost as wild a South
Sea Bubble as llolman, did that foolish
deed in Maoriland. And the verdict of
Maoriland was that Vogel had looked like a
Heaven-born financier in the days of big cheap
loans, but that when the country had to
make an attempt at honesty, he knew just
about enough to run a retail apple stall.
When a community, under the influence of a
plausible financial madman, gives way to a
streak of prodigality, it pawns its whole
future for the joy of having llolman or
Vogel at the head of affairs for three or six
years. And about the fourth or seventh year
it finds that its whole future is up the spout,
and that Holman is gone and Vogel is no
good.
The one kind of political corruption which
comes to stay is the financial variety. Negro
slavery was regarded as the prize calamity
of the United States, yet it was abolished by
a stroke of the pen. A nation may be sunk
in ignorance and illiteracy as England was
so recently as 1870, but then Parliament
passed a Compulsory Education Act, and in
a generation illiteracy practically vanished.
It is difficult to imagine any evil in the
wav of misgovernment which France didn’t
suffer from in the early days of Louis XVI.,
and manv of the evils were so old that they
seemed as permanent as the hills. Yet the
National Convention got its chance, and the
whole fabric of tyranny was torn down
almost in a day- Unfortunately no one ever
paid off the public debt with a stroke of the
pen. or settled with the national creditor in
a day. England may have been born again
since the early days of George 111., but it
hasn’t been born again in one respect—it
still drags at its heels much of the old dead
mad king’s debts and liabilities, and it seems
likely to do so for many a century to come.
New South Wales is about as unlike the old
Ma State of the ’fifties of last century as any
place can be, but though everything else may
have altered, the lOU hasn’t, and the bill
for the. first yard of railway the State pos-
sessed is still being renewed periodically with
Cohen at such price as Coiien thinks fit to
demand. The easiest device by which the
shoddiest public man can secure a litle fleet-
ing salary is the scattering of loans. He is
the fraudulent trustee who gets away with
the offspring’s trust money, and he has the
unspeakable “front” to so fix things that
he is hailed as a benefactor because of the
shortage in his cash.
The public debt habit is comparatively
new, but it has taken such deep root that it
is hard to find a nation with any sort of
credit which hasn’t already pawned itself
for at least 10,000 years ahead. That is to
say. the average nation, if it swears off and
reforms (whicli it doesn’t), may clear up its
financial muddle in about that time. Almost
every State with a 200-years’ record of the
loan disease has gone insolvent once or
oftener —some of them much oftener; but
the most earnest digging into the subsoil of
history doesn’t show one State that has
honestly paid up in full. Apparently repay-
ment is as unusual a habit as immortality,
and as no person has lived for ever up to
date immortality certainly is unusual. But
the fact that financial embarrassment is the
ordinary public condition doesn’t make the
position of New South Wales any more
pleasant. That State, like every other Aus-
tralian State, has no war debt and very little
military and naval expenditure. For very
many years it had to all intents and pur-
poses no military or naval expenditure what-
ever. It has never paid an indemnity to a
foreign invader. It has never been looted
by an arrogant church or a bloated king. It
has paid no contribution of size to the Ma
Country. Neither pestilence nor famine has
struck it heavily. And the good Lord sent
it an endowment in the shape of a land re-
venue which was big enough to pay for all
its public works—to provide them without
loans and without taxation. But this thrice-
blessed community has fallen into a curious,
unmanly condition of vapors or debility or
self-pity. It is so darned sorry for its hard
lot that it borrows incredible sums to help
it along lest it should faint by the wayside.
And if it becomes necessary to choose be-
tween the leader who tells it to stand up
and be self-reliant and the one who bids it
sit down and borrow —well, the sedentary
attitude is much the easier of the two. And
the lazy, shuffling time-server who recom-
mends it looks a very pleasant sort of person
while he lasts. But there will he an awful
lot of perpendicularity to be done in the
future by way of compensation—unless the
country just falls down flat and repudiates.
SOME ELISHAS OF AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TnE proof that Elijah the Tislibite was a
real magician of parts is contained not in
most of his published miracles—which Jan-
sen and the mango trick have made to look
as unimportant as peanuts—but in the tre-
mendous admiration shown for him by
Elisha, his understudy and imitator.
Elijah did quite a lot of tricks. He
hypnotised the woman of Zarephath so that
she really believed that the barrel of meal
did not waste nor the cruse of oil fail. He
gave lirst-aid to the widow’s son and recov-
ered him, and he made monkeys of the
prophets of l>aal. He directed the defence
of Israel and their aggressions on the
Syrians; and he made Ahab of the Ivory
House find himself. He repeated the trick
on the prophets of Baal in destroying 100
soldiers by spontaneous combustion. Elisha
had seen his hairy mentor —naked but for
his goat-skin girdle and a mantle —parody
the crossing of the lied Sea; he had seen
Elijah make the first ascent in the first
fire-balloon; and he took Elijah’s mantle
and repeated the crossing of the Jordan
before Elijah could return per parachute.
But the understudy had none of the big
mind and equipoise of Elijah—though that
destruction of 300 soldiers who intended him
no harm does seem rather petulant. Eli-
jah was scarcely the man to call she-bears
to tear two-and-forty children because they
called after him “Baldy ! Baldy !”
Elisha saw the working out of the curse
against Jezebel; and though he himself had
launched it, he believed steadfastly in all the
doings of Elijah, and therefore expected its
fruition. So the Elijahs of the world have
been of use in making better men of the
Elishas. Hero-worship has done history more
good than harm. St. Francis of Assisi, gain-
ing the stigmata from the dermographism of
hysteria, is not the only effect of the Christ
story on St. Francis ; there is, as well, that
imitation of thorough kindness and gentle-
ness of soul which made the birds his
friends to place against his fastidious weak-
ness of spirit which made St. Francis not
of the world, while still in it. Julius
Cassar had his worshippers, and one of
them —Napoleon—was an Elisha greater
than his Elijah. The weakness of the
Napoleonic worshippers is that many of them
have as evidence of their imitation only a
forelock, the abdominal widening which my
manicurist calls the “middle-age spread,”
and a hard face to eke out a colossal vanity.
Every child is a mimic, and mimicry is the
sincerest form of hero-worship; just'as the
lies of history made all religions begin
in the worship of the dead. Youth
lias a footballer for hero, just as to
part of our own heroic literature
was represented by Ned Kelly. Each vo-
cation has its hero and its examplar.
Kidman, the cattle man, adjusts life to the
viewpoints he imagines Tyson held ; and if
any man misses the examplar whom surely
W H. Irvine never forgets, then as surely
it is because the tremendous vanity of
Irvine, partially hiding itself in cold stor-
age, has in its turn hidden completely
Irvine’s hero. In both these cases the
ideals are line ; just as mere lunatic vanity,
posing itself as the peg for the mantle of
Napoleon, is only great in its ludicrousness.
Says an old Italian writer who knew both
the smiles and the dungeons of rulers : “To
censure the great is perilous; to praise them
is lying.” There is little peril in praising
Higinbotiiam; there may be lying in cen-
suring or praising Tyson, but, with these
reservations —
Tyson’s wealth obscured Tyson, as envy
belittled him. To most people without
money or fame it is enough for a man to
have a great deal of money or fame to call
their hatred into action. His is a long
story of courage, enterprise, endurance and
self-denial; and he left Australia better than
he found it. As a boy he drove cattle for
wages; saved a little; bought a few bul-
locks in Riverina and sold them in Ben-
digo ; and so played his part that he died
worth seven millions and didn’t hurt any-
body in the making of it. His life was ad-
mirably simple, and he achieved a reputa-
tion for meanness, because, as a millionaire,
he preferred camping in the open to sleeping
in an hotel. They called him a woman-hater
because he was too big a man to he indis-
criminate, too good a fighter to be
enslaved by sex passion. He had been too
bashful and too busy to get the mate he
wanted when he was young; he wasn t small-
minded enough to be able to marry anything,
and fastidiousness kept him clean. When
lie bought Heyfield and was sitting at din-
ner. a “lady” for a wager came behind his
chair and kissed him. She said that now
she could say she was the only woman who
had ever kissed Tyson. Old James rose
from his chair and said to her husband:
“This is done to belittle me, or for some
reason that makes it a liberty. Get my
horse, please. I’ll return when the lady
has left the station.” And away he rode
in the night to Sale.
Regard his firsj speech in the Queensland
Legislative Council. He advocated the
breaking-up of big estates ; and the smaller
men, who had thought that his great wealth
would make him' the greatest buttress of
privilege, were gghast at the blasphemy.
“Men and women are more important than
sheep or cattle,” slid old .Jimmy. "And when
there are enough men and women on the
land for either t> feel crowded, my flocks
and herds must nove further out.”
He had his humor, too —the sardonic
humor that Australia has invented out of
its difficulties and its droughts and its long
distances and the indispensable necessity or
keeping the uppei lip stiff as ironbark. At
one of his N. S. Wales stations an employee’s
wife had fixed up all her children with the
Sunday clothes, the kiss-curl in the right
place on little Willie’s head, and she said
to Tyson, who was looking at them as if
they were telling him how lonely he was:
“They’re a hue lot, Mr. Tyson.” “Ay!”
said Jimmy, grimly; “but they don’t grow
any wool.”
He was a big man—one of the biggest
Australia ever knew. They must have been
great dreams of his on the long night rides;
great schemes made in his solitary camp.
He never left Australia and he never wore
a hard hat; and he died like a big man too
—died at Felton, alone; went to bed and
died in the dark. I
Many men ini Australia play up to
Tyson’s memory ;; understudy his simplicity
and his ways of life. Not in all, though in
part; and more in the outward and visible
sign than in the inward and spiritual grace.
They travel at night and sleep outside
townships and never drink or smoke or
swear. But Tyson never —as many of them
have done —opened butchers’ shops and
undersold to kill opposition; he sent his
stock to public competition, and never got
behind it. He was big enough to burst a
meat ring and there’s not one man big
enough or interested enough to burst it now.
Yet not one of these is not the better for
his imitation of Tyson. His finest monu-
ment is that he made an ideal for many a
cattleman; and Kidman, the non-smoker,
the non-drinker, the non-swearer, and the
owner of cattle on a thousand hills, is the
man whose understudy is nearest that of him
who created the title-role.
The spending of Tyson’s fortune has been
ignoble in many ways, but the making of it
had good in it. Tlje tailing of cattle through
the long grass in the Downs ; the madness
of the muster; the long track from station
to station in the star-strewn nights ; and the
lord of these millions of acres riding alone
and silent, with great plans behind all the
quietness. It was! good for Tyson and for
Australia; good fot character, and the mak-
ing of men ; and if Tyson ever requires jus-
tification the hero-worshippers will supply it.
W. H. Irvine, the would-be Elisha of
dead Chief Justice George Higinbotiiam,
has to fly higher after his Elijah ; and his
fall is the more terrible. levine, the cold,
calm, thin-blooded precisian, of the insatiable
vanity, parodies lliginbotham. A little
Equity lawyer to a great jurist; a tinkering
of bills to a codification of law; a petty
advocate of privilege to a champion of the
people! Higinbotiiam was the personality
that seems to exhaust its own great type in
a generation—too great in his own genera-
tion to be understood by the general, and
now understandable by even little people
because 25 years of the grave have cleared
his image by dwarfing it.
Statues of little people disfigure Australia
—of stupid millionaires, of puppet governors,
of town clerks and bailiffs and ridiculous
mayors. Judge, lawyer, statesman, publicist,
there is no statue to bring Higinbotiiam
into the perspective of the small. A man of
great brain and equal courage; a single-
hearted statesman and kindly gentleman:
there is no other man in the history of poli-
tics so honest and so daring; of such recti-
tude and culture, bravery and resource. He
'—~n from privilege and class ground that is
lost to them for ever ; he took nothing but
in justice, and accepted immeasurably less
than he gave. Genius there has been be-
fore ; intellectual force is not uncommon;
but add to these undimmed honor, personal
humility, greatness of patience, tireless
strength and dauntless sincerity. He cut
the heart out of the most Tory Upper House
on earth, and then retired to the Bench.
Retired i His codification of statute law
i a monument sufficient for a dozen great
men.
The leading land-boomers of Melbourne,
who proposed, on the day the Chief Justice’s
donation to the 1890 Strike Fund was pub-
lished. that the Chief Justice should be
hauled from the Supreme Court by an artil-
lery company and shpt, are forgotten, now
that Higinbotiiam begins to be remembered.
His home was sanctuary ; his private life as
clean as his public acts; and so his private
life and the people he left are as forgotten
as his detractors, and for the opposite reason.
The stupid English convention that makes
a fool heroic because he died blood-letting
while holding a flag, greets, as its greatest
heroes, Nelson and Wellington, and even
the idiots of the charge of the Light-headed
Brigade, because they killed somebody in a
hurry. But the most compelling candidate
for Australia’s national hero is George
Higinbotiiam—brilliance without advertise-
ment; honor without vanity ; daring without
noise; courage without hurry; endurance
without impatience; genius with humility of
personal aim: and statesmanship without
dishonesty. Compared with the man who
in the House saw not the Left nor the Right,
but only the nation, where be the little par-
tisans? And of such is the Kingdom of
levine !
Irvine’s best recommendation to Australia
is his hero-worship of Higinbotiiam,
although it be discounted almost to disap-
pearing point by the fact that he sleeps in
the same bed as Joseph Cook and Willie
Kelly—Cook who in the political household
of Higinbotiiam might be stable-help but
never bellboy; and Kelly, who is a copy
partly of Winston Churchill and partly
of the tremendous “dignity” and mental
snobbishness of Bulwer Lytton, but
mostly a copy of W. H. Kelly, Assistant
Minister for Home Affairs by the grace of a
tin-smelter and the money thereof.
In his imitation of
far and stony road to travel; and “Cattle
King” Kidman will succeed to the mantle
of his Elijah first. Irvine, to succeed at


all as Higinbotham’s understudy, must first
forget his class politics ; then the shibboleth
of “Party, right or wrong” ; and then forget
himself —which is to cure himself of the
vanity that sees Irvine everywhere repeated
to infinity in many mirrors. These three
things being done and the worship of the
ideal persisted in, all things else may be
added unto him. But it is a long road ; and
the mantle of George Higinbotham rests
yet on George Higinbotham’s memory, be-
cause there is as vet no man worthy the
wearing of it.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
SOME SEASONABLE REFLECTIONS.
Anyone who is in search of horrors and has
sufficient energy to take a trip to Erskine-
ville, which is a suburb of Sydney, may dis-
cover a terrace of about 40 houses. Each
of them is the hideous counterpart of the
next. Each has two rooms downstairs and
one upstairs; also a closed-in balcony, like
a suspended cage, in which children are im-
prisoned. A railway line abuts on the com-
mon back fence, and an incredibly ruinous
road pours its dust remorselessly against
the 120 front windows of the terrace. It all
makes a picture of gloom and grimy misery
and sobl-destroying sordidness. And yet
these houses are attractive, as the residences
of workers of a certain class go. There are
honest and hardworking people, good citizens
in every sense of tjie word, who would con-
sider themselves fortunate to be able to
inhabit one of them. It is a point worth
remembering at this season of the year, when
the shops are crowded with reckless buyers;
and someone in London has just made a
casual purchase of £3,000,000 worth of city
property; and the Tooths and Coopers and
others are temporarily among us for the pur-
pose of avoiding the absentee provision of the
Land Tax; and the rich are getting richer
at an astonishing rate, while the vast
majority of the poor, no matter how they
stint and toil, remain as desperately broke
as ever they were. The insane disparity in
modern fortunes, the fact that one man lias
more than 100 men could spend rationally,
while another, equally or more deserving, has
to wear himself out in the attempt to avoid
hunger—this, coupled with the circumstance
that our excellent educational system teaches
the poor man all about the delights that he is
missing, represent the greatest problem for
those whose job it is to hold the social forces
in order. Some hundreds of reasons were
advanced to account for the downfall of
Liberalism in N. S. Wales the other day.
C. G. Wade ascribed it to wholesale imper-
sonation ; that amazing patriot, Henley, of
Burwood, to Rum and Rome, or something
similar ; another to the Federal Labor party’s
preference-to-unionists policy; and so on,
each in accordance with his natural proclivi-
ties. A more likely explanation of many an
anti-Liberal vote is that it was the solemn
lodging, by those with assets to lose, of a
protest against perilous Conservatism. The
I-lolman party, with its wild —not to say
wicked —financial notions, constitutes a men-
ace to the national credit; the irreconcilable
Tories, who have every sort of claim to call
the tune for WADE-ism, and who exercise the
right, are a peril to the national existence.
Apparently those with what is known as a
stake in the country are beginning to realise
it. # #
The industrial position in Australia to-day
has a curious likeness to the position in the
British navy at the end of the 18th century.
The analogy only applies, of course, to a sec-
tion of the local working class, but that sec-
tion is a fairly large one —large enough
already to be dangerous, and growing steadily
in numbers month by month. In the days of
England’s most resplendent naval glory, its
seamen were sweated in a way that to the
modern is almost unbelievable. Their pay
was the same as that of sailors in the reign
of Charles 11. A restaurant proprietor who
dared now to supply his customers with the
decayed meat and weevily biscuits and bread
that a grateful nation used to hand its de-
fenders then, would be proceeded against by
the police and fined severely, with the appro-
bation of all right-thinking people. There
was no sleeping accommodation as the term
is now understood. The unhappy tar crawled
into a hammock in an unventilated dog-hole,
packed to suffocation with other tars. Though
England was ceaselessly at war at the time,
and though seafarers were hardy folk in the
nature of things, yet more died from scurvy
and other diseases engendered by bad
food than were killed in battle. And
they hadn’t even the satisfaction of feeling
tliat they were yielding up their lives in a
service that they had elected voluntarily to
enter. About 50 per cent, of them were
recruited by the press-gang system, the most
inequitable and infuriating form of compul-
sory service on record. There came a time
when human endurance gave out. A section
of the navy went on strike for higher wages
and better conditions. As that good old
Tory, David Hume, notes mournfully: “The
seamen who had so long been the defence and
glory of their country threatened its" over-
throw.” The English Conservatives of the day
showed the same complete inability to com-
prehend the point of view of the seamen as
local Conservatives betrayed (say) when the
tramway employees struck in Sydney some
years ago. The grievances of the insurgents
were lightly brushed aside as things of no
account, and the points were stressed with a
sort of chastened sadness that the community
had always liked and admired and
trusted the strikers hitherto, and that this
was a nice way, forsooth, to repay such a
wealth of pleasant feeling! England’s first
naval strike in April, 1797, was, of course,
a criminally bungled affair; and equally, of
course, the chief delegates to the Admiralty
authorities were crucified for their fore-
sightedness and public spirit—in point of
actual fact, they were hanged. But the
time came when the nation, in sheer self-
defence, ordained that its sailors should be
fed and treated like human beings. Wages
were raised and additional comforts were
given to the men. The militant unionists —
the first in history as we understand the
phrase —won hands down. Had they not
done so, there is little doubt that England’s
navy would have continued to be England’s
defence and glory for a very limited period.
* * * *
The same sort of people who imperilled
England’s existence a century ago, by advo-
cating stark hostility to the demands of the
navy, are imperilling the social peace of Aus-
tralia, if not the national existence itself, by
their insane habit of getting woodenly in
front of every fresh bit of ameliorative legis-
lation that is put forward, and fighting hard
to persuade others to do the same. No social
fact stands out more clearly than that, within
the coming decade, wages will have to go
up to a figure that quarter of a century ago
would have been reckoned unthinkable. A
new standard of comfort has been raised.
The workers have been taught by the State
—through health authorities, schoolmasters,
and the like —-to regard as necessaries things
that the comparatively well-to-do of. the mid-
Victorian era looked upon as luxuries. There
was a time when countless thousands of
those comprising what was called the under-
world, were content merely to be allowed to
remain alive. If by unremitting work, of
the most uninspiring sort, they were able to
feed themselves and hire a bed, they were
satisfied that the community had done a fair
thing by them. There are few indeed of
these bestially patient citizens in the present
generation. Good food and enough of it,
reasonably comfortable homes, a certain
amount of leisure and amusement —these are
things that modern workers of every class
are beginning to look upon as their right.
The granting of them is going to mean, inci-
dentally, a big inroad upon employers’ pro-
fits. But, in the first place, the employer
who, on the average, probably is making
£lO per annum where half a dozen years ago
he made £7, can afford to yield to his em-
ployees’ demands; and in the second place,
like England in the matter of its navy a
century or more ago, he can’t afford to scout
them. Every moneyed Liberal who urges .on
the Cooks and Wades of Australia a policy
of sitting stolidly down and doing nothing is
achieving two ends, both of them disastrous
from his point of view; first, he is adding
to the army of anarchy a force which, as
the recent Brisbane and M.L. strikes demon-
strated, has already to be reckoned with; and
then he is blasting the prospects of his party.
The complete triumph of the “Liberalism”
of the Melbourne Argus and the Sydney
Telegraph would mean, presently, the
ghastly spectacle of bell-toppered heads on
pikes, and of frock-coated corpses hanging
from trees and lamp-posts—a reflection
which suggests that Liberalism should sol-
emnly register a New Year’s resolution to
try to be really Liberal in future, if only
as a measure of self-protection.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Electoral Systems with Frills on Them.
Feom a front-rank Tasmanian politician: —
Tasmania is not usually the State where political
innovations are tried, but it got a move on in 1907,
when the Evans Government introduced the propor-
tional system of election. The valiant sea-capiain
didn’t pretend to know anything about the merits of
the system; he introduced it merely to stay the rising
tide of Laborism. it didn’t even do this. Labor has
improved its position at each succeeding election,
until now parties are so even that legislation is almost
impossible, and is likely to remain so as long as this
absurd system is in existence. One of two things
must happen. Either single electorates, with the
contingent vote, or the natural corollary of propor-
tional representation, viz., elective Ministries, must
shortly eventuate. The system will never fit in with
the other expensive and almost immoral system of
Party Government, and if Tasmania desires to make a
name for itself, and lead the way to decent Govern-
ment, it will carry out the real intention of Hare,
Gpark, Spence and others, by adopting Elective
Ministries.
The original intention of proportional voting was
to give sectional representation; but in the present
stress of party politics, minorities are altogether
forgotten, and the true ideal is lost. The electors
vote either Liberal or Labor, heedless ot' sectional
battle cries. Two parties only are returned, each
with the same objective, the Treasury benches. At the
last two general elections in Tassy, the social-reform
candidates were left, and Buns and the breweries had
to accept what Party Government and a freak system
gave them. It was also said that the parish-pump
politician would disappear, and each member would be
free to vote as his conscience dictated, instead of
merely trying to please his small coterie of constitu-
ents in a small electorate. Unfortunately the re-
verse has been the experience. Instead of having
one man waiting on Ministers’ doorsteps to ask for
the expenditure of loan money to paint the parish
pump, or make a carriage drive to Mount Welling-
ton, you now have six political mendicants hanging-
round, and voting for the illegal expenditure of
public loans. Only the best men with national
ideals and strength of character, it was said, would
be returned. The weakling would be impossible.
He would have to return to his more suitable job
of hoeing turnips and potatoes, or retailing cheap
calico, sand, sugar and butter. But, owing to the
technicalities of the system, the party electors, by
foolishly trying to help in a weak man, so as to get
an extra one, often lose a strong man and put in the
weakling. The electors forget that they have only
one effective vote, the No. 1. They say, “I will
give my No. 1 to Jones. He is weak. Smith,
really mv first choice, will get in without my vote. I’ll
give him No. 2.” And so Jones is elected, and
Smith, the good man, is left. Moreover, this trick
is encouraged by a selfish and designing candidate at
the expense of his party colleagues. The Tasmanian
Parliament has suffered severely from such things
during the past two elections ; consequently, the
standard of the House is much lower than formerly.
Further, the best men are often beaten under the
grouped electorate system, because of the difficulty
and expense of visiting all parts of the large dis-
tricts, wherefore a better known but less able one
Another serious defect is in regard to by-elections.
Tasmania at the last general election pronounced in
favor of 16 Liberals and 14 Laborites, returned from
five divisions. This was a correct mathematical
division of parties according to vote. A Laborite
resigns or dies in Wilmot, a strong Liberal con-
stituency, and at the by-election a Liberal wins the
Labor seat. The opposite would happen in the
Labor division of Darwin, and Labor would take a
Liberal’s seat. Of course this defect could be over-
come in a way by taking the next Laborite or Lib-
eral, as the case might be, on the previous poll, or
by allowing the party to nominate. Both would
however, have serious objections. The Liberal or
Laborite next on the poll may, since the previous
election, : have been proved a thief and a scoundrel.
Nomination by party is even more objectionable.
Without going into the technical anomalies,
enough has been said to condemn the absurd propor-
tional system, and no country would be wise to
follow the example of Tasmania, unless Elective
Ministries are adopted simultaneously. Even then
some other svstem is preferable, as a .great j manv
objections would remain. The electorates^would still
be too large and unwieldy. The parish pump would
still require painting, and it would still take six
men instead of one to get the job done. Political
friends wo”ld still be fighting each other for No.
1 votes. Electors would still elect the wrong man,
and the standard of Parliament be continually
lowered. If it would not be perfect under Elective
Ministries, it is absolutely destructive under the
Party system, as it kills party organisation and
party lovalty. The writer plumps, after experi-
ence' both in and out of office, first for single elec-
torates with the contingent vote, and then for Elec-
tive Ministries in order to cheapen and purify gov-
ernment
The State and the Trust.
When N. S. Wales Premier Holman lodged
his first protest against amendments in the
Federal Constitution designed to give the
Australian Parliament power to pass effec-
tive Anti-Trust legislation for the whole
Commonwealth, he took the point that the
handing over of such a power was absurdly
unnecessai'y since each State was in a posi-
tion to pass Anti-Trust legislation of its
own. And that attitude he has maintained
ever since. It is now his plain duty to show
that his contention was something more than
hot air. The Commissioner who inquired
recently into Food Supply in N.S.W. estab-
lished the fact that Rings exist in the bread,
milk, milling and other businesses, with re-
sults financially detrimental to the public.
The Brick Combine is still alive, and various
others are going strong. Moreover, the con-
ditions are favorable for the birth and rapid
growth of more. Particularly menacing is
the position in the mutton trade—a colossal
business in which what one may call a half-
circle already exists, and in which the Ring
would be complete, in short order, were it
not that one big operator is at loggerheads
with those who should be his natural allies.
The mutton trade is one that calls for plenty
of capital and plenty of nerve; and, after
all, the profit is not great. This is the sort
of concern that develops into a Trust if some-
thing or someone doesn’t hinder it. The
only bulwark at present between N. S.
Wales and a mutton combine is one man. lie
is understood to hate Trusts, more or less,
but is generally suspected of hating those
who want him to combine with them rather
more. Let those two prejudices be overcome
and the local law will not be of the least
avail to save the community from being
fleeced. The law in.question is comprised in
Sections 70 and 71 of the Arbitration Act
(1912), which lay it down that “any person
who enters into a conspiracy or combination
to restrain the trade of the State in any
necessary commodity t'' the detriment of the
public,” or who “monopolises any part of
the trade of the State with intent to control,
to the detriment of the public, the supply or
price of any necessary commodity,” shall be
fined. Necessary commodities are (a) coal,
(b) gas, (c) water, (d) any article of food
“the deprivation of which may tend to en-
danger human life or cause serious bodily
injury.” The Crown’s chance of proving
intention? 1 detriment has been shown by the
working of the now-repealed Federal Act,
on which the N. S. Wales one is based, to be
hopeless. Equally so, as far as can be
gathered, would be the Crown’s chance, or
anyone else’s chance, of proving that to
deprive the public of a particular variety of
foodstuff was likely to endanger life or cause
serious bodily harm. Mutton would cer-
tainly not come under this heading: there
are countless other meats, from beef down to
plain rat, capable of sustaining human life.
And the same argument applies in the case
of any other cornered edible. The present
law requires to be amended by the removal
of the necessity to prove “intent.” The
mere fact that there has been a combination
in restraint of trade should be enough. If
N. S. Wales takes the lead in this respect;
and if all the other States follow suit, and
the Beef Trust is, as a result, ousted from
Queensland ; and if it is quite certain that
none of the States will ever go back on such
legislation, at the instance of a big U.S. or
other combine with money to spend locally—
in all these unlikely events, there will be
something to be said for the State Rights
arguments that were put forward in oppo-
.sition to the Fisher Government’s Refer-
enda proposals. Anyhow, it is a fair thing
f-r Holman to get a move on and start the
reform movement in the place where he
affirmed that it could be made effectual.
The Wicked “Black List.”
Maoriland employers of waterside labor are
feeling good and powerful now that they
have broken the strike and stunned the
Federation of Labor. Soon after the dis-
turbance commenced it was clear that they
were going to extend themselves to the limit
in order to teach Labor a lesson. True,
they have denied that they were in anta-
gonism to Labor generally; but they knew
well the general effect of a rout along the
waterfront and upon the ships, and they did
everything possible to produce it. On that
score no blame can be attached to them,
since the Red Federation invited it; but
the fight having been won, the matter should
have ended. Instead, the wicked black list
is out, as shown by this circular: —
[Private.]
Representatives of Employers of Waterside
Workers, Wellington.
Dec. 12, 1913.
Sir, —I have been instructed by the members of
Representatives of Employers of Waterside Workers
to inform you that at a full meeting of the above
Committee it was unanimously decided to exclude
the following men from obtaining work on the
water front.
[Here follows a list of 39 members of the Water-
side Workers’ Union.]
We will be pleased if you will instruct your labor
department to that effect.
Yours faithfully,
F. JELLEY,
Hon. Secretary.
So far, no stout, right-thinking person has
arisen to denounce this refusal of the right
to work, nor has the Tory press yelped for
legislation to prevent the citizen being de-
prived of his means of livelihood by a reac-
tionary combination; but if it had been
mentioned in the merest whisper that a
workers’ union was refusing men the right
to toil in order to feed their children, the
protesting outcries would have drowned the
noise of the traffic.
Falkiner’s Wink and Kidman’s
Complacency.
When the arrival of the American Beef
Trust was mentioned in the National Par-
liament, Falkiner, M.H.R., who is one
of the wealthiest squatters in the Common-
wealth, is reported to have asked the members
of the Opposition, with a wink, whether they
thought he was going to let the Trust get
his cattle cheap. What was likely to happen
to the consumer apparently never entered
into Falkiner’s perspective. In any
case, Falkiner’s wink does not re-
move the danger even so far as the grower
is concerned. It may mean either that
Falkiner thinks that, as a big man, he is
going to get in on the ground floor, or that
he flatters himself the Australian stock-
owner can conquer the Trust. As to the
former possibility, it certainly would be a
cute move on the part of the Yankees to
secure the co-operation and support of the
largest stock-owners in this country: it
would make the hold-up much easier. But
it is not necessary to assume any such com-
pact, actual or hoped-for. The winking
Falkiner and the complacent Kidman may
fatuously believe that the State-ownership
of Australian railways protects them. Some
most violent anti-Sosh people do thus hon-
estly believe in the blessings of Sosh. For
instance, Denham, Premier of Queens-
land, remarked just before he left for Lon-
don to negotiate further loans: “Queensland
controls its own transport system, and, that
being so, it is difficult to imagine any corpo-
ration securing such an advantage as to de-
prive competitors.of a fair deal.” But why?
State-owned railways simply mean that stock
will be brought cheaply to the coast, and
that there will be no danger of a rival com-
bine securing preferential rates. The Trust
only becomes interested when the stock
reaches the sea-board. Its chief if not its
only markets will be in foreign countries,
and neither the Queensland nor the Aus-
tralian Government controls transport to
those countries. For a concern with the
resources of the Beef Trust it would not be
a difficult matter to obtain a monopoly of
ocean carriage, and with that done
how are Denham’s railways going to in-
fluence the situation? Stockowners would,
in fact, be then absolutely at the mercy of
the Trust, as under ordinary circumstances
they depend upon the export trade. Once the
Trust is established, safety can only be
secured by the establishment of a line of
Government steamships, or by the Common-
wealth securing the call on refrigerated
space, and taking good care that it is avail-
able first to stock-owners or independent
shippers. Even then the Trust would pro-
bably flatten out competition in the English
market, so that the Commonwealth would be
compelled to take on the toilsome distribu-
tion of the meat as well as the supervision of
its carriage. However much Falkiner may
wink, the small stockowner cannot shut his
eyes to American experience. So rotten has
the Trust made the meat-growing industry
that in desperation the packers themselves
have now nut up an enormous sum to edu-
cate the farmer and entice him back to the
growing of beef. But, judging by an extract
from an American exchange published lately
in the S. M. Herald, the American farmer
will not go back. He was at the mercy of
the Trust once, and is not going to put him-
self there again. The fact that porterhouse
steak may cost “a dollar a pound” within a
very few years, if more stock are not raised,
is not interesting him: he knows who will
get the dollar.
A -+
More Tracks of the Monopolies that Do
Not Exist.
After the convincing way in which the Tory
press recently explained that there were no
Trusts, Rings or Combines in Australia, it
is somewhat disheartening to find Supreme
Courts, and Royal Commissions, and repu-
table citizens who publicly exhibit the marks
where they have been bitten, bluntly con-
tradicting the old, reliable prints. The
latest examples of this spirit of cussedness
are contained in the progress report of the
Fruit Commission'. Even on the opening-
page the majority point the finger at two
firms, and declare that the bulk of the re-
frigerating space on oversea steamers avail-
able for the trade of the principal fruit-
exporting States (Tasmania and Victoria)
is controlled by them, and that in the case
of Tasmania the entire space in a number of
fruit-carrying steamers is monopolised by
one firm alone, under agreement with the
shipowners. Henry Jones, managing direc-
tor of Henry Jones and Co., admitted in
evidence that, in his company’s agreement
with the Federal-Houlder and Shire lines of
steamers, there had been an undertaking not
to carry any fruit from Hobart other than
for the company or its nominees. That
gave an absolute monopoly over the space
on those steamers from Hobart, and was
a regular feature of the contracts. In Vic-
toria it was shown that one firm has the
allotment of 70 or 80 per cent, of the space
available on the P. and O. and Orient
steamers, and Westralia appears to be even
worse off than the other States. The result
of this sort of thing was explained to the
Commission by Robert Hardy Topham,
barrister-at-law and fruit-grower, of Wood-
bridge (Tas.) i
In the year 1911 I bought two farms in Tasmania
each of 100 acres. I went to London, and I arranged
....to sell my fruit. .. .When I arrived in Mel-
bourne I saw the manager of the Orient Co I
asked for space in the vessels of the eo. in the fol-
lowing season, six months ahead. The manager in-
formed me that all the space was taken up by .Tones
and Co., of Hobart, and I must see them....l then
made inquiries at the offices of three of the shipping
cos., and space was denied me by all on the ground
that it was taken. .. .1 interviewed Mr. Jones’s
manager, and I said: “I find I am bound to take
space through you.” He said: “That is so.” I
said: “What is your charge?” He said: “Twopence
per case.” I said: “Do you mean to say I have to
pay you 2d. per case to do business that I do not
want you to do?” He said: “Yes.”
Further evidence was given that C. Knight
and Co., of Hobart, who in 1894 shipped as
many as 30,000 cases of apples to London
for growers, had gradually been refused space
until they were squeezed out of the trade
altogether. The answer of the big firms to.
the charge of monopoly is that, by holding
all the space, they are enabled to secure the
lowest rates of freight for their clients;
but, unless perjury has been indulged in,
it is understood that the grower is to ship
to London and Hamburg firms of selling
agents or brokers, who are represented in
Australia by those controlling the space;
and this business involves the payment of
a rebate or return commission. That is, out
of the profits made by the selling agents in
London, most of their Australian space-
controlling representatives receive a rebate
of. usually, 3d. a case. Another aspect
which the Report classes as “unhealthy” is
exposed in a letter from F. W. Moore and
Co., of London, to Jones and Co., of Ho-
bart (and Moore and Co. are alleged to be
a branch of Jones and Co.) :
Mr. M. Fitzpatrick wrote to us to know if we
could sell for him 5000 cases next year. Mr. R. J.
Grant (Messrs. Knill and Grant) came in to see
us about this, as he had exactly a similar letter
which had been addressed to him at Covent Garden.
This suggests that Fitzpatrick has written to several
firms. Kniia and Grant would not do anything
without reference to us, and we suggested that he
had better write to Fitzpatrick declining to buy, as
it would be so much better to leave it to mi


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From Jl/6 Day;
3 Guineas Week.
For the New Year stick loyally to the top-
notch brand. Loyally but not too often.
The brand which will keep you topnotc' all
the time, and therefore loyal to yourself, is
King George IV. t.p. whisky.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE'S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s. Ltd.. 393 George Street,
Sydney.
TSe Famous PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES
SYDNEY’S PICTURE
CENTRE.
CQLr
CONTINUOUS llpm
S 3
w
CIWST
m
m
tuLp
P^n^Qwl
ihMQTjO
COLONIAL. CRYSTAL palace. empress.
Famous the World over for their LUXURIOUS APPOINTMENTS.
SHOWING ONLY NEWEST 8 BEST PHOTO PLAYS.
Popular Prices —3d. to 1/-
Continuous —11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
The Greater J. D. Williams Amusement Co., TAd. W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
eee what you can buy them for. Grant is going to
do this, and we doubt if anyone else will trouble
about buying just now.
Nothing could be more thoughtful. The
majority of the Commissioners advocated the
establishment of a line of steamers owned
and controlled by the Australian Govern-
ment, for the breaking-down of the space
monopoly and the general benefit of the fruit
industry. George Graham, ex-Minister for
Agriculture in Victoria, pushed his shoulder
to the same wheel. He said this: —
We bring all our produce down to the seaboard by
train. It is dumped down at the seaboard and we are left
entirely at the mercy of the shipping ring after-
wards, no matter what we are sending away. I
gave evidence before the Butter Commission, and
emphasised that point very strongly, and I have not
changed my mind since. I feel strongly that the
only solution is a Commonwealth line of steamers.
Which is a suggestion that Jokook and Co.
might be expected to gratefully adopt, seeing
how much they owe to their old friend the
man on the land, and the prayers for help
they will again be making in that direction
before long. Meanwhile, it appears to be up
to the Melbourne Argus, the Adelaide
Register, the Sydney Telegraph, the Bris-
bane Courier and all the others who denied
the existence of the monopolist to ascertain
if their yarns were correct. If they were,
the papers ought to nail down these con-
spiracies, which otherwise may undermine
their reputation for veracity.
-*■
The best that can be said of the action of
the N.S.W. Labor I’arty in choosing R. D.
Meagher as its candidate and making him
Speaker of the Assembly is that it thereby
declares its sympathy with the repentant
sinner. But for such a position as that of
Speaker, if the choice lay between a repent-
ant sinner and a just man who needs no re-
pentance, the vote should go to the just man
every time. There is no virtue in having
gone off the rails ; a George Higinbotham
who couldn’t go crooked is a greater glory
to a party than any man could be who, for
personal gain, has shown his capacity to do
a vile wrong, even if afterwards, on being
found out, he has shown a capacity to be
sorry for his misdeed. Meagher may or
may not have “lived down” the particularly
contemptible thing to which he confessed in
the very chamber over which he has now
been called to preside; but in choosing him
out from the 40, and in putting him into the
chair as the man whom of all its members it
believes most fit to be the “first Commoner.”
the Labor Party has thrown an undeserved
reflection upon itself. The persecution of a
man who has made what is called a “mis-
take” is inexcusable and cruel. But it is
one thing to give such a man a chance, and
quite another to choose him out from a party
of men who have gone straight all
their lives, and to put him to preside over
their deliberations. Indeed, the very fact
that he was prepared to accept such
a position, and to subject the party to
the criticism which it invites, proves that he
is not the man whom the party ought to
have chosen for the high office.
“Bildad” : There is another side to the
doings of Digby Denham in connection
with the boot question (B. 18/12/T3). The
Grand Kookaburra knows that the writer is
no admirer of that scared political produce-
merchant, but for once it wasn’t Digby’s
fault. This is how it happened. When the
ancient relics of the .Leg. Council were
maundering over the Ilealth Act Amendment
Bill because it wanted to deal effectively
with venereal diseases, old-man Davey de-
manded that all boot-soles should be made
entirely of leather. Barlow accepted
it — Barlow’s instructions were to accept
any old thing if it would help to get the
much-needed Bill along—and, after more
wrangling in the Assembly, Davey’s amend-
rhent came out in a weirdly mangled form,
mixed up with a ukase against baby’s feed-
ing bottles and imitation woollen goods. The
Health Commissioner, to whose lot it fell to
work the contraption as a part of a Pure
Poods Act, was assailed by deputations of
maddened hoof-envelope merchants from both
sides. After much inquiry he found that
the only result likely to come out
of the Davey effort was a material
increase in the parcel-post output of trotter-
armor from other States where no Daveys
exist. As a public health feature the Davey
clause was worth considerably less than a
bunch of second-hand dog’s meat. Denham
naturally accepted this as an unbiassed
opinion from the person best qualified to
give one, and the boot potentates got their
first six months’ respite. When this was up,
they themselves asked for a special Act on
the lines of that in South Australia, where
part-leather hoofware has to be plainly
labelled as such. The request is reasonable,
and if Denham survives his approaching
interview with the Throne, the Davey mis-
cegenation will probably be removed from the
Health Act and allowed to flock by itself in
a small, special Act. P.S.—Warned by past
experience, the hoof-clothiers have privately
resolved that if they are asked for sample
footgear wherewith to illustrate the rounded
oratorical periods of Bananaland’s states-
men, anything provided will be attached by
a stout chain to some large, heavy article,
such as a loan. The last lot disappeared in
the Assembly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Man and Superman.”
Her Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
Palace “A Day at the Races.”
Adelphi “Aladdin.”
Criterion “Officer 666.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Lyric I
Colonial > Continuous Pictures.
Empress J
Crystal Palace. Continuous Pictures, etc.
Olympia ( West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium )
Imperial Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Eden Gardens, Manly. The Dandies.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Forty Thieves.”
Princess’s “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
King’s “The Land of Nod.”
Royal “Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Opera House Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda. . The Dandies.
“It seems to me,” said Helen Burton, at
the close of “Officer 660,” produced at Syd-
ney Criterion on Boxing Day, “that all this
couldn’t have ha opened except in a play.”
And with a cheerful and confidential smile
for her and the audience, Travers Gladwin
confessed r “Believe me, my dear, it couldn't.”
He was right. “Officer 666” is mixed farce
and melodrama, admirably acted, and going
with a swing that allows the critic no time
to expose its humorous impossibilities. At
this light entertainment no brick of oppro-
brium should be hurled, or could be hurled,
so sweet and confiding are at least four of the
actors. There is Fred Niblo, the million-
aire Gladwin ; to capture a burglar who has
impersonated him and is about to make off
with a swag of Gladwin’s old masters, and
also with the girl whom Gladwin loves, he
disguises himself as Officer 666. He makes
the sweetest and mildest-mannered Constable
Murphy that ever captured a White Slaver.
Then there is Miss Josephine Cohan, whose
pathetic and wistful sweetness is her greatest
charm. There is Miss Beatrice Holloway,
with an infantile sweetness that begins
rather to cloy. And there is Robert Greig’s
overpoweringly oleaginous sweetness. Fred
Niblo, however, is more than a beautifully
moustached policeman; his comedy is refined
and infectious. And Miss Cohan, who has
within a few hours to transfer her infatua-
tion for Gladwin’s impersonator to Gladwin
himself —though it must be admitted that
Fred Niblo, as Gladwin, helps her all he can
• —succeeds almost in making the sudden
change in her affections convincing. Miss
Marion Marcus Clarke does well with a diffi-
cult part; but Mr. E. Pirie Bush is quite
ineffective in a part that should have played
itself. Sydney Stirling, as the “greatest art
expert in the world,” who knows a master-
piece when he sees it, and promptly cuts it
from its frame, carefully packs it up and
carries it off, gives a highly realistic render-
ing of a cool and clever criminal. The scenes
in which he figures are watched with the
tensest interest: his work is altogether ad-
mirable.
The farce is full of melodramatic surprises.
The police arrest the owner of the pictures,
and regard the thief as the millionaire; but,
then, that is the way of police. The author,
however, provides some reason for their mis-
take ; and thrill succeeds thrill with the
regularity that we now expect from the
modern American drama. The “curtain” of
the second act, in which the criminal, to
avoid arrest, switches out the light and in
the confusion and darkness makes for a hid-
ing place, is splendidly arranged, and the
“ALADDIN,” AT THE A DELPHI,
SYDNEY.
“Old lamps for new.” —Percy Clifton does a
little dealing.
resulting surprise highly dramatic. The open-
ing of the farce, too, shows that the drama-
tist knows how to arrest and secure the
attention of his audience, as, bit by bit, it
and the hero receive the information that his
picture gallery is to be burgled that night.
“Officer 666” is evidently due to remain
many weeks on his beat in Sydney.
Pantomimes come and go, and are remem-
bered and forgotten, and are better each
time and not so good as the one the old bald-
head remembers. Still the bald-head is likely
to put a cross against “Aladdin,” which
George Willoughby is now producing at the
Adelphi (Sydney). At the end of the first
act, to ragtime, all the legs in the show
sinuously glide along a platform level with
the bald-head’s bulging eyes. There are some
very nice limbs amongst them (no names ex-
cept at advertising rates), brought to dazz-
ling prominence by what may be termed leg-
lights on each side of the platform, the rest
of the house being in darkness. It looks
like a gigantic pink centipede doing the Gaby
glide. As a whole, the panto, is bright,
richly-colored, well-staged and not-so-well
dressed. It offers nothing very new —no
panto, ever does—with the exception of the
pink centipede. But the book (by A. E.
Martin) is more sane and intelligible than
usual, the chorus is young and tuneful, and
the music (arranged by F. Wynne-Jones)
consistently pleasing.
* * * *
The “stars” of the show are Carrie Moore,
Grace Palotta and Percy Clifton. Carrie, in
the name part, outshines Grace, who plays
lvoko, captain of the guards, a sort of sec-
ondary principal ' boy. The latter loses
through being shorn of her familiar dressy-
comedy frocks. She is Palotta, but the old
'Grace is missing. Clifton, as the magician,
clowns well and gets in some good songs.
The rest of the cast are an even lot, though
a special word of mention is due
to Edward Stanley, as the Widow Twankey,
Aladdin’s voluble m'a. On the vaudeville
side, Morris’s wrestling ponies (formerly on
the Brennan-Fuller circuit) are the feature.
For those not wearied of trick cyclists and
wheel balancers Valentine and Bell are re-
commended, and Marjorie, a tiny girl con-
tortionist, can have a hatful of compliments
and a barrelful of regrets. Child contor-
tionists —or any other kind of contortionists,
for that matter —ought to be abolished by
Act of Parliament. “Aladdin” will con-
tinue to keep the slaves of the Ring and the
Lamp busy for some time, and if it does it
to as good business as during the past week
Geovo-e Willoughby will arise and call his
new line blessed.
LEGS AND EYES.
“Walking the plank”—the sensation of the
Sydney Panto, and the Revue.
“Come Over Here” has been doing holiday
business at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, during
the past week. If it doesn’t continue on the
same lines for the next three months the
management will be not only surprised, but
pained.
A 'l* *!* 'l' »!'
“Man and Superman,” or “Man and
Superknight,” is running evenly, like a limpid
mountain stream, at Sydney Royal. The
Shaw comedy is a good antidote to the
other J.C.W. show, at Her Majesty’s, and
the management deserves a word of thanks
for putting it on the counter just when it
was most needed.
** * *
Holiday-makers have been generously shar-
ing their spoil with William Anderson at
the Palace (Sydney), where his American
Burlesoue Co. is rollicking through “A Day
at the Races.” The musical farce is just
the thing for this insidious time of the year.
“The Warning,” at the Little Theatre,' is
doing its best to keep Sydney’s interest in
the White Slave traffic alive, though, some-
how’, all press interest in Miss Mona West
has surprisingly evaporated.
Josephine Davis, the bright young comedi-
enne, has headed the Popularity poll at the
Tivoli (Sydney) ever since she arrived affiout
a week ago. Up to then Du Calion would
have got the vote (even now he’s not far
behind), with “The Bandit” team second,
Barton and Ashley (farcical sketch players)
third, and half a dozen others dividing the
consolation prize. The holiday bill is the
strongest that the Mcßickards has offered
for months past.
The White City standeth in the Valley
of the Shadow of the Stadium, which is
Rushcutters’ Bay, whereto the pilgrims pro-
gress exceedingly and the sheep are separ-
ated from the goats. Verily, some, being the
goats, go up even unto Stoush, and some,
being the sheep, go down to the darkness of
the Underground River, where the young
maidens frisk, or stray to cockshy at the
fountain filled with ducks, wdiere the
righteous pass the silver and the jeery make
the jest. And all are abundantly satisfied.
The Brennan-Fuller firm has been issuing
a special appeal to parents to ‘‘bring the
kiddies along to the vaudeville pantomime”
during the week, and the Amphitheatre (Syd-
ney) has been a popular gathering place for
Pa and Ma and Willie and sister Sue.
Wherefore the animal “turns” (including the
roosters that throw handsprings) have been
putting the ragtime lady in the shade for a
change.
Worth-while cinopictures in Sydney this
week :—
Crystal Palace: “Plot of India’s Hillmen,” illus-
trating an insurrection by Ram Dham and his fana-
tics at the instance of Russian intriguers, and the
tranquillising effect of the grand old British bayonet.
Colonial: “In Three Hours,” being the 10-thrill-
per-minute story of a cowboy’s love for the rancher’s
daughter. All former thrillers are hereby disquali-
fied, unless the press-agent has faked the synopsis.
Empress: “The Hindoo Charm” —love, revenge,
chance, happiness, tough luck and a few odds and
ends.
Lyric: “The Buried Past,” which explains itself.
If it doesn’t, the wages of curiosity are: Dress-circle.
6d. ; Stalls, 3d.
Glaciarium: “The Miracle.”
Olympia: “The Oath of O’Tsura San,” concerning
the stealing of a plan of an improved torpedo-boat
which is to settle the argument between Japan and
the United States when it falls due.
Imperial: “The Money God” (a big shipwreck
scene here).
Spencer’s: “Scrooge,” Seymour Hides in Dickens’s
conception of a typical mean, cantankerous English-
man.
“Monsieur Beaucaire,” revived at Mel-
bourne Royal last Saturday, has one redeem-
ing virtue from even a democratic noint of
view. Its trivial plot is essentially snob-
bish; every character is a waster,of greater
From a First Nighter:
The chief effect of a visit to “Come Over Here” is
to suggest exasperatingly what a godsend a real
revue would be to the hored theatre-goers of Sydney.
The names of a dozen Australian writers who are
capable of supplying the goods will occur to any
local pressman. What a delightful and amusing
“book” on revue lines Dyson, or Norman Lindsay, or
Adam McCay, or Edmund Fisher could do, for
example!
The maxim that any imbecility is good enough for
a revue-patron conies from London. If you want to
appreciate the fact that it doesn't apply to Australia,
all you have to do is to hearken to the blisteringly
hostile remarks of most of those who have sat through
“Come Over Here.” The explanation is obvious.
For one thing, the conventions are different. In
London about half the frequenters of revues drift in
to see some special turn, stay half an hour, and then
drift out again. They don’t worry, about the idiocies
that come before or are perpetrated after. The
average Australian arrives at the theatre before the
curtain goes up, or a minute or two later, and
stays, in a state of critical sobriety, till the bitter
end. No handy drink exhilarates him, no tobacco
soothes his nerves. He just swelters miserably in a
blastiferously uncomfortable seat, and wonders, as he
listens to witticisms that originated in the Plantage-
net or Tudor periods, why in the name of insanity he
was betrayed into coming. That is, he does these
things in the case of productions like “Come Over
Here.” The naif japes that convulse a Cockney
crowd leave most Australians cold. In the mass,
Australians are more cultivated and intelligent. Our
system of Socialistic education while it fails to turn
out a regular supply of ltoseberys, Bryces and Bal-
fours, provides a general level of mental quickness
and perception which is remarkably high. If you
doubt it, compare any given immigrant with the
nearest local man of approximately the same class,
remembering, incidentally, that a man wouldn’t be
an immigrant did he not possess some mental
qualities—courage, enterprise, imagination—which put
him above the ruck in his own land.
The Australian city-dweller aproximates in the way
of liurnor, brightness and flair for the scandals and
jests of the moment to the Parisian. In Paris, no
current allusion is ever lost on a, theatre-going crowd.
The newspapers have been featuring the disgraceful
deeds of a satyr. A satyr appears in a revue, and
behaves in accordance with his newspaper reputation.
He is recognised with tempestuous amusement. The
satyr fades from the popular memory, and his place
is taken by an apache who has invented some new
crime; or by a Minister who has become involved in
a s.candal; or by a representation of the only Wowser
in Paris —I forget his name, for the moment; but he
aims at closing the restaurants and cabarets at 10
p.m., and periodically proceeds against the Palais
Royal Theatre for indecency. It is the presentment
of such features as these that entitles a stage produc-
tion to call itself a review. If they are well done
they are not only extremely funny, but they amount
to so many interesting criticisms on the follies of the
moment.
Sydney, which is an insatiable newspaper-reader,
teems with interesting subjects for revue turns. The
recent White Slave scare, for instance. For a couple
of weeks at least, the appearance on the stage of a
typical White Slave trader, with vast hypodermic
syringe, drugged bouquet, and the rest of the well-
advertised implements of his calling, would have
brought down the house. Any time within 10 days
or so of the recent elections a burlesque of whole-
sale impersonation 1 at the polling-booths would have
gone well. So would a presentment of Alice Wil-
kins and her Hebrew sponsor ; or a view of Griffith’s
goat or the figtree with weary Laborites at work on
it; or a G.P.O. scene, with demented postmen mis-
handling the Christmas mails and telephone girls
doing nothing amidst great public blasphemy. Every
day supplies fresh topics of local interest In a self-
absorbed and gossiping community like ours. In
“Come Oyer Here” the public is offered, in place of
current social satire, the humors of nigger minstrelsy
—-business that ceased to be novel 30 years ago—and
the political interest is supplied chiefly by a row
between Wade and McGowen —those responsible being
under the delusion, evidently, that McGowen is still
Premier.
In fact, “Come Over Here” is not a revue at all,
as the term is understood in Paris. The scenery
with the exception of three “sets” and a couple of
“drops,” does not even pretend to be Australian ;
practically all the songs are ancient ragtime melodies
from America; the chief performers, like most of
their gags, are imported. The revue that will really
review local events has yet to be seen.


dsf
TME
NEW
a
d
SARTO
is made from the best Jamaica
Sarsaparilla Root with special
flavorings, the recipe for which
is held by SCHWEPPES LTD.
exclusively,
SARTO is a refreshing bever-
age, and, being a blood purifier,
has most excellent tonic properties.
It is greatly improved by a slice
of fresh lemon.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
or less degree. The climax is an all-round
glorification of a French Duke on account
of his royal birth ; yet all the sins of the play
may be forgiven, since the fashionable hero
brings the golden age of British foppery into
contempt. Beaucaire is the picturesque
stranger who makes an audience realise the
absurdity of being a mere commonplace snob
in these unpicturesque bunny-hugging days.
You leave the theatre feeling thankful for
the greatness of the superlative personage
before whom mere mortals appear equally
unimportant. The heroes of other romantic
costume comedies were false gods, but this
is one to be truly worshipped. Three hours
of such hero-worship are probably good for
the soul. The charm of Waller’s impersona-
tion is in his graceful manner, natural
amiability and unexpected sincerity. He
makes love to Lady Mary with the warmth
of a Frenchman. His French accent is ad-
mirable. When the play permits the possi-
bility of his being convincing Waller is
quite convincing ; the rest of the time he is
doing his artistic best to tone down the glar-
ingly theatrical effects of his part. Madge
Titlieradge, as Mary, seems, at first, not large
enough to fill her hard, hollow character;
but subsequently she softens it and almost
succeeds in moulding it to her own person-
ality. Halliwell Hobbes makes Beau Nash
a cold, repellent creature ; Frank Woolf is
a rough, unpolished misrepresentative of the
baffled British Duke: and of the other local
inhabitants who play up to the victorious
Frenchman the brightest are Charles Quar-
termaine and Lizette Parkes. The play is
well staged, and the wonder is that it has
not been produced earlier. “Monsieur Beau-
caire” is for two weeks only, and will be
the tail-piece of Lewis Waller’s season. Then
comes Julius Knight (on the 10th), with
a revival of Sardou’s “Diplomacy,” one'of
Ihe Brough and Boucicault successes in the
long, long ago.
** * *
The Williamson panto, which started in
Melbourne the other Saturday, has settled
down into its stride, and looks quite capable
of going all the way to Easter, or there-
abouts. If not the absolutely-best panto,
that ever ran on the same course, “The
Forty Thieves” is certainly better than some
that carried a larger parcel of stable money
and were built on more imposing lines. Ali
Baba and his wife are now introducing some
old and trusty fooling into the scene outside
the Cave, and whenever Lupino and Edwin
Brett are gathered together the performance
offers consolation for the times when it is not
so amusing. Changes in the order of things
have happened since the first night; also
the original Morgiana, of whom The Bul-
letin mercifully remarked that she was
“quite out of place,” has been succeeded by
Dorothy Firmin, formerly a Fairy. Miss
Firmin, though not a dream of sparkling
vivacity, is a vast improvement on the young
lady who appeared once whilst the new
Fairy—Gladys Moncrieff —reveals a sweet,
round voice. But it takes a lot of people,
other than the principals, to make a pros-
perous pantomime. Wenman, the producer,
and MacCunn, the man behind the baton,
and scene-painters Coleman. Upward and
Co., and Hassan, and the ballet that dances
before Atholwood—those are matters for
honorable mention. No reference to the
ballet would be complete without a word, or
several words, of praise for Victor Lausch-
mann and Maggie Dickinson, who dance
around the Cave in evil-spiritual capacities.
“MISS ELIZABETH'S PRISONER
AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Mr. Valentine. Black Sam (Charles Pope).
The Yankee extravaganza at the King’s
gained nothing from experience during its
first week; and unless it has since then
begun to do some of the things it ought to
have done from the outset, and has undone
some of the things it never ought to have
done, there can be very little wealth in “The
Land of Nod” after the holidays. The
most conspicuous needs of a misguided but
well-meaning entertainment are a careful
overhaul of the dialogue, refinement in Tom
Armstrong’s method of speaking his numer-
ous lines, a reduction in the quantity of
step-dancing, and a new song for the King
of Hearts, instead of the dismal dirge he
dallies with in the opening scene of the second
act. As regards scope for remedial meas-
ures, “Nod” is thus a land of plenty, where
the Sandman roars around in his pyjamas,
wildly endeavoring to shake things up.
Cannam (as the Sandman aforesaid) and
nimble Maud Chetwynd, in columbine skirts,
are a pair of enthusiastic workers whose
ardor remains undamped until they fall into
a tank; and one Don, from America, is an
unforced humorist who strikes one as know-
ing the whereabouts of the missing joke.
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” continues to be. a
source of mild amusement at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s. Four melodious coons (to whose
musical accompaniment Little Eva dies very
gracefully) help the proceedings all they can,
and the strain of the narrative is often
relieved by a miniature burnt-cork bal-
let. Herbert Leigh presents Uncle Tom
as the usual hobbling saint saturated
with slushy Christian niety, while Vivian
Edwards, disguising his features with
villainous whiskers and a dreadful leer, gives
stentorian emphasis to the role of Legree.
Cyril Mackay figures rather obscurely as
George Harris; Max Clifton does a 10-minute
turn as the Quaker, Phineas Fletcher; and
Miss Holroyd is notable for giving the part
of Topsy the one touch of clamor that makes
the whole stage din. The scenery, by J. S.
Mann and Harry Grist, compensates for
sundry painful shortcomings in the render-
ing of other characters in the Beecher Stowe
classic.
THE MEL-
BOURNE
PANTO.
STAGE
WORSHIP
STARTS
AGAIN.
The bill at the Opera House is unseason-
able and entirely lacking in novelty. The
Petleys, the Schmettans, the Cleinendos,
Frank Parish, and Reynolds and Donegan
are all earning their money by the profuse
sweat of their brows, and on a hot night
the audience merely feels thankful not to
have any of their jobs. Moreover, the
comedy-sketch turn of Doody and Wright
is sadly wanting in repose. The other turns
are musical even to a fault—the Primrose
Four, Marini, Aimee Smith, Rosa Roma
and James Fraser. The last-named stands
for the fault. His amateurish effort is a
relic of Gene Greene’s ragtime competition,
Greene himself having departed after drink-
ing a pint of beer on the stage to the
Public’s health. Of the artists above-men-
tioned the Primroses and Reynolds and
Donegan are passing out this week.
❖ ; !' ❖
Spencer’s programme at Melbourne Olym-
pia last week was embellished by an adapta-
tion of “A Christmas Carol,” with Seymour
Hicks in the principal part. Hicks played
the role of the time-honored old miser con-
vincingly, and exhibited a scowl that, for
bellowdramatic purposes, looks like a gift
of the gods. “Our New Minister” was a
thriller, a trifle overburdened with plot;
and “A Momentous Decision’” was a loosely-
strung yarn of financial misbehavior, with a
giddy, unaccountable female in the back-
ground.
* * * *
A cool Christmas stimulated all Adelaide
shows. The Tivoli has Gene Greene, the
roaring ragtimer, and Eric Stone, who
dashes off portraits of local celebrities.
Manuel de Fra’s first-in-Australia turn con-
sists mostly of balancing chairs on tables,
and making a nest for himself on top of the
lot. He has a clever spectacular fall that
looks ingeniously like the real thing, and
earns a tribute of shrieks. The King’s has
Hilary Long, who used to be with Wirths,
and who still walks downstairs on his head.
The Staggs and the Lentons help to make up
a strong bill. In the open, at the Jubilee,
are the Dandies, who brought in Edward
Reeves and his clever wife for a special con-
cert on Christmas night; and at the Old
Exhibition is Wirths’ Circus —a tremendous
bill of bears and boarhounds, pigs and rams
(one ram a first-rate low-comedian), and
mere humans, including some fine gymnasts.
Paul Dufault is singing his great challenging
“Invictus” at the Town Hall; and at the
Royal, in the American “Confession,” H(is)
R(ivrance) Roberts will let his brother be
hanged rather than divulge the confessional’s
secrets. It is melodrama, but makes the
“Worst Girl” types of melo look the poor
things they are. The moral lesson is over-
emphasised, but the audience seems to like
that; and of Roberts’s effectiveness there can
be no doubt. Among the pictures, West’s
specialise in a seasonable “pageant” of
“Beauty and the Beast,” with the magic bits
cleverly faked; and Wondergraph shows the
fire at Pengelley’s, by which very nearly the
biggest furniture factory in the Common-
wealth was put out of action on Christmas
night.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Theorbo”: This Christmas witnessed the Mel-
bourne Philharmonic Society’s 60th performance of
Handel’s “Messiah,” and for the “golden jubilee”
ex-conductor Peake has issued a timely book under
the auspices of the committee. Peake was born the
same year as the Phil. —1853—and quite grew up
with it. Even as a boy he took part in the con-
certs. The society began as the Choral Union, but
was quickly transformed into the Philharmonic. The
first concert was given at Christmas, 1853, in the
Mechanics’ Institute, now the Athenaeum. The con-
ductors have been Russell, Elsasser, Horsley, Pringle,
Summers, Lee, Siede, Peake and Zelman. The last-
named brought off this year’s “Messiah” magnifi-
cently. He flings himself in with the ardor of
Richter, Mottl, or Nikisch. His very hair seems
electric. Peake’s services to the society were greater
than anyone’s; but he was too cold as conductor—
too much afraid of putting on side. So he was
rather like a carpenter sawing wood. Ada Crossle.v
sang for the Philharmonic in 1891 for four guineas.
In 1903 they gave her £3OO for two performances —
'but lost money over it. Melba’s father, Dave Mit-
chell, was one of the founders in 1853 ; but, strange
to add, Melba has never sung for the society, though
she says she will. Early principals, included Anna
Bishop, Mrs. Carandini, Mrs. Testar, Mrs. Hancock
and Farquharson. And even a scrap of a notice like
this must mention Beaumont.
“Circle”: The theatrical depths have been sounded.
“Come Over Here,” the J.C.W. revue now running
or staggering at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), has pro-
duced the “show man,” full brother to the “show
girl.” The “Come Over Here” show men are dressed
prettily in flannels (the boating or tennis variety),
with straw boater hats and white shoes, and their
stage “business” is as like the show girl’s as possible,
allowing, of course, for the trifling difference of sex.
It is their dreadful job to skip blithely into view
and to lie and languish on black silk handkerchiefs,
while a pretty little girl chirps one of those pretty
little songs that don’t matter. While the 15 or so
fatuous . young men are reclining gracefully on their
handkerchiefs and using their straw hats fanwise in
time to the music, the pretty little girl skips up and
down the lines touching their extended finger-tips.
After that, the dreadful 15 spring to their feet and
wave the black silk handkerchiefs they have been sit-
ting on. As an exhibition of effeminate futility it
is faintly amusing; but in most male onlookers it
merely produces a feeling of honest scorn.
The referee’s decision in Gene Greene’s un-
lovely “ragtime contest” at Melbourne Opera House
on Christmas Eve did nothing towards promoting
peace on earth and goodwill among men. The advt,
had announced that the audience was to “judge
heats and finals,” but it omitted to mention that
Greene was sole judge of the judgments. On one
or more of the preliminary trial nights Greene de-
cided that the result’ was a dead-heat between two
competitors, after the audience had distinctly ap-
plauded one of them more than the other. When
the final was sung off, the audience “placed” first
and second prize winners; but the man who got the
louder roar was awarded the £5 by Greene, whilst
the other fellow won the tenner. Cries of dissatis-
faction rent the air, whereupon referee Greene art-
lessly explained that the less applauded man had
sung in perfect ragtime, whereas the other fellow’s
tune had not been consistently raggy. In short, one
ditty had the negative virtue of not being always
as ragged as the stuff that Gene Greene rags; and
though the audience liked it best on that account,
Greene naturally preferred something that was more
like his own dreadful utterances.
Beaumont Smith, backed by Meyer, of London, has
bought the Australian rights of “Mr. Wu,” the East-
ern play in which Matheson Lang is starring in the
Big Smoke. The Meyer-Smith Co., due in Australia
in 1914 with “The Barrier,” will produce “Wu.”
From London: Bernard Shaw’s latest —-“Great
Catherine” —produced at London YaudevHle, is a
very flimsy and primitive piece of work, and is merci-
lessly slated by most of the critics. It’s the story
of a comic Englishman at the Court of the Russian
Queen Catherine, the lady with the countless lovers.
The Daily Telegraph critic says Shaw “crams toge-
ther good jokes and bad, inventions really comical
and the most tedious banalities. Instead of working
out his idea, he turns off into rough-and-ready buf-
foonery that would be primitive in a pantomime.’
And the Chronicle calls it “silly” and little better
than a “nursery charade.”
“J.F.H.”: This was the late Marchesi’s story: “I
was at lunch when a new pupil was announced. I
had had a series of disappointments with stars
who would not shine. ‘Another damp rocket, I sup-
pose,’ I sighed, as I rose wearily to test the new
pupil. But I ran back soon, excitedly exclaiming
‘Salvation ! I have found a star at last! It was
Melba, of course.
“Harrison 0.”: “Nil’s” remarks about “Carmen
(B. 20/11/’l3) go to support the view held by more
than one critic that that opera should be played by
a good “comic” co., rather than a grand-opera crowd.
The part of the fact’ry ’and who did a line with Don
Jose, and then chucked him for a bloke who had
made a name for himself at the local stadium, calls
for histrionic rather than vocal excellence. And
how many grand-opera vocalists can hope even re-
motely to look the part? Certainly Bizet’s tinkling
melodies contain nothing that need prove beyond the
scope of capable comic-opera songsters. In fact, what
many good judges look upon as the best performance
of the opera ever given in Melbourne was provided by
Williamson’s Royal Comics, at the Princess’s, in
1892. Marie Halton was Carmen, William Walshe
Done Jose, and Charles Ryley the toreador. Inciden-
tally, a long-felt want is a performance of Gounod s
“Faust,” by a musical burlesque co., with a female
chorus clad in tights to render the “Soldiers’ Chorus.”
- “Alpha”: Leah Halinbourg, erstwhile “lead” with
Gregan McMahon’s Repertory Co., has joined the
ranks of the professionals, and is now playing a
small character part exceedingly well at the new
Majestic Theatre. Leah is a fascinating Australian
with a dash of the Jew in her —a beautiful creature
to look upon, and wonderfully young. She is intel-
lectual, industrious and lives the right sort of life,
so that when her reward comes she may be said
truly to have earned it.
“Baton”: This revue idea of having a central
gangway at stage-level for girl processions, dress
display, and so on seems to me to have one obvious
disadvantage. When a singer comes skipping down the
plank and gets behind the orchestra, he or she is liable
to miss the beat and be left floundering. That sort
of accident takes all the bite out of the fashionable
ragtime, which has been described as music with a
hiccup. Get a couple of hiccups in the wrong place
and you’re done —done, too, with your impatient
audience fidgeting all round you.
A London parson, the vicar of Brixton, has
strengthened the Church and Stage Guild by pro-
ducing a music-hall sketch entitled “Should a Woman
Tell?” The playlet is going strong and putting the
Wowsers to confusion. The mean young man of the
story is a Christian convert whose principles will not
permit him to marry his girl until he has questioned
her re her past. After soothing her godly lover with
the assurance that she has never “fallen, ’ the peni-
tent spinster confesses to a parson that she did once
“fall” under extenuating circs. Subsequently the
good young man, who doubts her professions of
“purity,” comes to ask the parson to cancel the mar-
riage banns; whereupon the spiritual adviser calls
him an unchristian dog, or words to that e |f e cG l“ e
young man becomes suddenly conscious of his un-
christianity and wishes to get married, after all ,
but in the meantime the lady has discovered that her
former betrayer is the .penitent nephew of the parson
to whom she confessed her sin. So she lets the sor-
rowful betraver make “an honest woman” of her, and
the other fellow is left to play the part of godfather
when the first christening comes due. The success ox
the vicar’s warm music-hall playlet will probably
encourage the Archbishop of Canterbury to try his
luck with a moral musical comedy.
(Continued on page 86.)
There are 14 authenticated survivors of
the Light Brigade which charged the Rus-
sian batteries on November 25, 1854. Six
were dined lately at the Holborn Restau-
rant, the Marquess of Ailesbury, nephew ot
the Lord Cardigan who led the charge, being
in the chair. Of the six one was 88, the
second was 83, and the others had not-out
scores of 80 apiece.
“A Journalist and Two Bears,” by James
Edmond, has just been published by the
Platypus Press, Sydney; and people who
haven’t got it have the cheapest shilling s
worth of the year ahead of them.*
South Aus. has just started running one of
its little West Coast railway lines, from a
terminus at Cape Thevenard, another
of the names left by the French expedition of
Baudin about 1800. Flinders, in his jour-
nal, called the cape “Thevenot,” and thus it
has stood in the maps; but the S.A. Marine
Board has rung up Paris, so to speak, and
finds that Admiral Thevenard was Minister
of Marine in Baudin’s time, and doubtless
he was godfather to the bit of rock.
Germany continues to struggle __ along
under the curse of Protection. Koenig,
British Consul at Dusseldorf, has been offi-
cially pointing this out to headquarters. His
report shows that Germany imports
£150,000,000 worth of foodstuffs, whereas
Britain, with only half the population,
imports nearly twice as much. Referring to
“higher incomes and increased prosperity,
Koenig says:—
Thirty years ago Germany set up her Protection-
ist tariff, and it is an incontestable fact that during
these last 30 years Germany’s progress has been
nothing short of marvellous.
Still there are some Germans who maintain
that the Fatherland would have progressed
equally well under Freetrade, which shows
that Australia hasn’t all the fiscal freaks.
Jas. Edmond (of The Bulletin) has at
last committed a Book, and there is more joy
in Australia over it than over ninety-and-
nine just and upright Government Blue
Books. As for the price—ls.—it is, as
Euclid says, “absurd,” considering that
there are 417,921 laughs and 342,607 snorts
in it!*
When Premier Solomon’s recent proposal
to abolish by-elections in Tasmania was
withdrawn in response to public clamor,
Labor-leader Earle challenged Solomon in
the Plouse to name any Labor members who
had indicated to him (Solomon) their ap-
proval of the proposed law. As this
seemed to some of Earle’s followers as
though he was unnecessarily eager to shove
them into a hole on a non-party question,
there was an explosion of Labor language
calculated to make joy in the camp of the
Ministerialists. However, as Earle has not
been deposed, the storm was evidently
quelled in the caucus room. Barring this
slip, and his unwariness in relying on
Cameron’s promised support last year (thus
precipitating a wholly profitless general elec-
tion), the Tas. Labor-leader—a born fighter
-—has hitherto done as well as might be
expected.
“10-2-4” on one of N.S.W.’s Prominent
Men: —
It is interesting, psychologically, to note the hold
Ghidley is getting—in fact, has already got—on the
affections of the Sydney crowd. The crowd, in its
heart, loves to see constituted authority defied. Chid-
ley has stood four-square to the massed forces of the
police and the State’s lunatic asylums for upwards of
two years, and he is still going as strong and as
unclothed as ever. Everything about him is appeal-
ing, in a public sense—his ioneliness; his friendly
accessibility ; the air of mystery that surrounds him;
the proud humility with which he frequents the
gutter ; the splendid sartorial incongruousness of his
combination of bare legs, spectacles and walking-
stick ; his total lack of self-consciousness, fear and
humor ; the undying wonder which he inspires as to
how he manages to earn a living and the wherewithal,
to pay his fines by the simple act of wandering
absently about the city; and a thousand other unique
attributes. Gazing ahead with prophetic eye, I see
some Government of the future being utterly defeated
in the House owing to a rash attempt on its part
to cut down Chidley’s State allowance or pension of
£lOOO per annum; and an election being fought on
the Chidley issue; and Ohidley—grown fat, mayhap,
with prosperity—being driven from one centre to the
other and orating on his wrongs to frantic crowds
of electors; and polling-day with all N. S. Wales
ringing with Chidley’s wrongs; and the overthrow of
the erring Administration; and a clarion call from
the Sydney Telegraph urging Chidley to come for-
ward, like the true Liberal he has always proved
himself, and save the country by contesting a seat
in the anti-Labor interest at the very next by-elec-
tion. Not till he complies with this request will
Chidley lose the love and respect of the multitude.
Even such popularity as his will not endure the
handicap of being a politician.
THE VISIBLE LEG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why may ballet girls show all the legs they
possess, while a decent woman is to be insulted for
giving merely a shadowy hint that she is propelled
on such things? —lndignant correspondent.
This thing at length too far has gone.
The ballet girls are put upon,
And chorus fays are scorned anew,
Because they put their legs on view.
In truth, the dame upon the Block,
Whose ankles trim the Wowsers shock,
Shows legs less covered up by far
Than those of panto, fairies are.
A skirt of soft, transparent stuff
Shows legs of-Madame in the rough,
But chorus girls, to shame more quick,
Have theirs all padded inches thick !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


The Genuine
South American
Panama, from 15/6
One of the best values obtainable—the ideal for
holiday wear—with fine, even plait, that will not
crack; correctly sun-bleached, and fitted with sweat-
proof leathers. The lightest hat made for men, the
coolest and most economical for the country, the
sportsman or the city man. Widths of brim, from
2i or 3J inches.
The New Shape, as illustration 15/6
Better Qualities 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-,
Up to 5 guineas.
David Jones, Ltd,
Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SENT CARRIAGE PAID
Gossip
Ask any
motor-car expert!
He will tell you to use as much air as
your carburetter or spirit will take. Figure
it out, or watch what the winner of a
petrol consumption test does. He uses more Oxygen than
others and gets the greatest efficiency.
6^gov^
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
on account of the greater number of heat units it contains,
will take more air than other spiiits or benzine. That’s
why we make it and sell it —why results and
sales prove it to be the best for motor cars.
Mob'tifcijii
= 1
RSWSWS
1
Gargoyle Mobiloil
is
our
other
Speciality
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
SOCIETY
South Aus., possibly influenced by the re-
cent outcry from Oxford, has chosen as its
Rhodes scholar for next year a student aged
only 20. Each State can make its own
conditions, and S.A. fixed the age limit at
24—about the highest in any State any-
where. Thus the Adelaide representatives
have generally been full-grown men of 22 or
even 23, with a local degree and a variety of
athletic experience behind them. It is diffi-
cult for them to mix on equal terms with
the schoolboy of 18 or 19 that the usual
Oxford undergraduate is. But the very last
thing Rhodes wanted was that his
overseas scholars should form a class
apart, so it is probably better to
send them young, even though they
may not be so overwhelmingly successful in
the sports as they have been during the past
few years. The wholesale capture of the
Freshmen’s races at Oxford in October by
Rhodes-men has led to all sorts of local
protests. Incidentally, it seems rough on
Cambridge, too.
A DISCIPLINARIAN.
“I suppose she made him a good wipe?”
“Can't say as to that, but she made him a good
husband.”
“It is still probable,” the papers say, “that
the Melbourne City Council will take action
to prohibit the wearing of diaphanous dresses
by women in the streets.”
“What do you call your father, James?” the stern
old master asked,
And in the sunshine of his smile the young class-
genius basked.
“Me parent!” said the nimble lad, amid a fright-
ened stir.
“And what’s your mother?” “Ma,” he said—-“she’s
my transparent, sir!”
With the demolition of Darlinghurst Gaol,
promised by the N.S.W. Minister for Public
Instruction, will go one interesting series of
“Botany Bay’’ records. In the old, weather-
beaten wall on Darlinghurst-road, every
stone bears the initial or “registered mark”
of the who tooled and chiselled it.
“Vic”: The hubbub over the Palais de
Danse, on St. Kilda Beach, took me thither
last night. Absolutely it is the most inno-
cent thing there. I will declare that nine
other shows are objectionable and this one
harmless. Lots looking and few dancing.
Frosty this night; but the whole
beach is frosty. Forty shows, demanding
separate pay—Luna Park, magnificent
Casino, Palais de Danse, a quartette of
separate vaudeville companies, all excellent
and expensive. I went on a fine night, and
biz was decidedly bad everywhere. The pub-
lic appetite is gorged. Coney is all right for
New York’s three millions, but we have tried
to race it in Melbourne, and the 600,000 can’t
run to it. Somebody is going to lose money.
I think somebody is losing money.
* * * * *
Though few were aware of it, the big
cities of the Commonwealth were on the
threshold of serious trouble just before
Christmas. For some time the Federated
Operative Bakers of Australia had been con-
sidering the question of day instead of night
baking, and a majority of the branches had
decided on a strike to enforce their demands,
the upheaval to start on the Monday before
Christmas. They had asked the Federated
Master Bakers for a conference and had
been refused, as usual. Though organised,
neither body had registered itself under the
Arbitration Act, and in consequence held a
mistaken idea that Justice Iliggins had no
power to interfere. But he had, and promptly
exercised it, calling both parties to a com-
pulsory . conference on the Friday previous,
demanding an assurance of temporary peace,
and promising to hear the plaint immediately
after the vacation —an instance of the vir-
tues of compulsory arbitration.
* * * *
The Victorian law has once more got upon
its own hind legs and told itself what sort
of an animal it is. A Warburton selector
was charged under the Game Act with kill-
ing wallaby in the close season. The selector
chose for his Gent One a well-known natu-
ralist who, knowing all the ins and outs of
the business, pleaded “Not guilty by
Statute,” and put in the Vermin Act and
the Land Act, both of which classed wallaby
as vermin and ordered their destruction
under a heavy penalty. Result: The angles
at the. base of the triangle were equal, and
both sides being produced, the angles at the
other side were found to be equal, and the
Game Act was left in the odd corner.
“The Mute”: The hasty and ill-kempt
suicide of Mrs. Isabella Newman is a further
argument for a Euthanasia Bureau. The
lady’s choice was strychnine, and anyone
who has had experience of a strychnine-
poisoned animal will easily be able to fill in
some of the details of her last half-hour. A
persistent tendency to bound off the floor by
means of the heels and the back of the head
is one of the less unpleasant fea-
tures of this form of poisoning in
the human subject. Undertakers —
especially those who work on Gov-
ernment contract —complain bit-
terly of the strychnine habit, owing
to the loss they make on supplying
suitably-curved coffins at the ordin-
ary rates. Arsenic and phosphorus
are other poisons to be avoided by
the intending suicide, although
there is no special trade objection
to them. Lysol makes particularly
inartistic corpses, and if they stiffen
before being laid out it also is liable
to add to the worries of the
woodem-overcoat merchant who
works on contract rates. An elec-
tric-shock corpse is the best of all
for neat and close packing, but the
method is not in favor as a delib-
erate means of qualifying for trade
attention. Narcotic drugs are pro-
bably the least unsatisfactory way
of passing out. In the trade we
prefer beer as a suicidal narcotic.
It may be slow, but it seldom necessitates
much stamping on the departed in order to
fit him into a stock size.
An indecent-postcard prosecution has been
successfully carried through in Adelaide in
respect of copies of famous pictures—one in
the Tate Gallery in London, and another
that was in one of the Paris salons last year.
Noel Webb, defending, had the usual fun
that a lawyer who is artistic can get out of
a police inspector who is not. The “copper”
was led on to condemn as indecent not only
the statue of Hercules in Victoria Square,
but also the coldly-academic Perseus and
Andromeda of Burne Jones in the Art Gal-
lery, and even the Venus statue on North
Terrace, which is not even nude. However,
the Bench thought that the motives of the
shopkeeper who showed the postcards were
not purely artistic, so it inflicted a fine.
Notice of appeal was of course given.
THE ROYAL ROAD.
POLITE BANK CLERK : “ Really, Airs. McGrath, for a novice your daughter plays tennis
admirably.”
MRS. McGRATH : “She do, indade, Air. Muggins. Sure, I noticed wheriver yez put
your racket, she could hit it void the ball every time.”
The amateur policemen sworn in by the
Massey Government to preserve law and
order during the water-front strike in Maori-
laud have been making themselves cordially
disliked. Recruited from the country squat-
tages and sooled on by one or two stupid
“class” newspapers, they swaggered in to
tame the cities. A sample of the things they
did was unpacked after the result of the
first ballot at the Lyttelton by-election.
McCombs, the Labor candidate, easily
headed the poll, and later on proceeded to
express his thanks. A crowd of special
constables, however, objected to the pro-
ceedings, and flourished their clubs at
McCombs and his companion in a manner
calculated to cut the contemplated remarks
off at the meter. So serious, indeed, was the
menace offered by these defenders of law
and order that uniformed police had to sur-
round McCombs while he made his speech.
The Christchurch Times —a rational paper—-
gives it on the word of several onlookers
that, on the same occasion, a woman with a
small child was struck with a whip by. one
of these special hoodlums, and when her
husband protested he was bundled off. Pend-
ing the dispersal of the gang, or push, the
uniformed police have been kept as a sort of
reserve force, so that there has been estab-
lished, as it were, one line of offence and
another of defence.
“Mr. Ocky”: Farewell has been said to
the old buildings of the Grammar School at
Geelong, which have been in use since 1857.
The new year sees the school re-established
on a new site far from the madding crowd,
on a bleak spot overlooking Corio Bay and
six miles from the city. The new buildings
follow the English idea of “houses” —thus
Perry House (after the first Bishop of Mel-
bourne), Cuthbertson House (after ex-
teacher J. L. Cuthbertson, who wrote “Bar-
won Ballads”), Manifold House (after one
of the Manifolds), and so on. The vacated
buildings have been acquired by Geelong
City Council, and will be patched and used
as the City Hall.
THE RIVALS.
SHE: “ I'm giving Jack a sovereign case for
his birthday .”
H E: "That will be handy—for sixpences."
AN XMAS LOVE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The usual number of Xmas fatalities and acci-
dents were reported. —Daily paper.
Girl, it is Xmas time. (Please note,
Before we break our necks,
How it is spelt! For those who gloat
On tragedies by busli or boat,
We mark it with an “X.”)
Dear, it is Xmas time, and we
Must go to bush or bay
To brave the blazing tinder tree,
Or sink and drown within the sea,
Or block the serpent’s way.
The world is full of dangers, dear,
And we of innocence.
The sea is deep, the cliff falls sheer,
The poisoned fangs are very near,
And ev’rything’s immense!
So come away with me, my soul!
Ah, come away, my dear!
And if we dodge the shark and shoal—
If snake, train, fire all leave us whole —
We’ll try again next year.
N.S.W.
FOE.
MY RESOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A host of “sins,” both great, and small,
Upon my conscience lie ;
Temptations I did not disdain,
And pious resolutions vain
Made in the year gone by.
But grieve I most when I recall
The “sins” I never “sinned” at all!
My conscience stern reminds me of
The many drinks I missed ;
The evils that I did not do,
The bills I paid on falling due ;
The girls I never kissed.
A fraud I feel; a humbug mean —-
I am not bad, nor have I been !
For girls unkissed, and “sins” unsinned,
’Tis late to worry now.
For missed misdeeds I shed a tear,
But, with the dawning of the year,
I register a vow
To seize each chance unused of yore—
And “sin” as ne’er I’ve “sinned” before!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.


Wild’s Hairdressing Rooms, oO Upstairs,
Sydney Arcade, George and King Streets, Sydney, is
the proper place to go if you want the best of atten-
tion. Electric head and face massage done in the
latest American style. Hours of business: 8.30 to
0.30; Saturday close at 1 o’clock.*
f
TO
o 6
Q
I!
i:;:
(Rea^ 1 )
If
vSilustria”
(Regd.)
Flannel
is guaranteed by the manu-
facturers to be absolutely
unshrinkable and fast color
and to retain the same softness
after repeated washing.
[3
A Summer-weight Boot, 1616
The style illustrated is now much in favor. It is
cool and light for summer wear. Light Tan Willow
Calf, or Black Calf, neatly perforated caps, fairly
wide welts, rope-stitched medium-weight soles, canvas-
lined, extended medium round last. Sizes 5 to 10.
Fittings C. and D. Oxford lace, 16/6. Derby lace
style, 18/6.
The “Kloo” patent collapsible boot tree and stretcher,
for keeping boots or shoes true to shape, 1/6 per pair.
New catalogue on request.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.
Men's Outfitters,
309 8 311 GEORGE STREET - -
SYDNEY.
sdf
sd
Please state size and
style of fitting
when ordering boots.
It seems probable that somewhere in the
dim future there may be reasonably safe
travelling on Victorian railways. Chief
Commissioner Fitzpatrick has just returned
from “abrawd” and brings with him a new
signalling and automatic safety system. It
was certainly time. The Richmond and
Sunshine disasters proved the Victorian
block system to be poor in nature, and so
cheaply worked as to be practically useless.
The new system has not yet been explained,
but it is comforting to 'know that it in-
cludes safety appliances which, when a train
runs past a signal at danger, will auto-
matically warn the driver of his mistake, if
they do not actually shut off steam and stop
the train. For the Victorian travelling pub-
lic the announcement is a most excellent
Christmas box.
“Silas Snell”: Consternation broke loose
in a Melbourne city establishment one day
lately when it was found that a terrific
stream of water had escaped from all re-
straint, and was eating holes in the perish-
able goods, and doing its best to drive the
head ledger-keeper through 2ft. of solid
masonry. Strangely enough, a torrent of water
hitting the ceiling, and tumbling the stock
down on the head of the chubby salesman.
inevitably suggests fire, so three
soused clerks poured themselves down
the front steps, and, rushing pell-
mell, fractured three fire alarms with
three bricks snatched from an ad-
jacent contract. Then they ran in
many directions, gathering police
assistance and public sympathy. The
vagaries of a hydrant in action,
throwing a stream of 40 h.p. to the
square atom, beggar description
when the boisterous overflow is con-
fined to the four walls of a whole-
sale dry-goods shop. In the tumble
of falling goods, the swash of the ele-
ments, and the screams of bedevilled
factory hands in full flight, the fact
that the whole trouble was due
to the firm’s own hose having gone
off by spontaneous explosion, as it
were, escaped general attention. Yet
there in the thick of it was the de-
vastating nozzle on the end of a 4-
inch hose, bucking about like a tor-
tured viper, shooting its flood in
every direction, and converting
£20,000 of dry goods
into an intolerable
sop. In due course the
metropolitan fire bri-
gade arrived and found
dripping heads of de-
partments shouting
among the general ruin
for lifebuoys. The bri-
gade turned off the
hydrant, and in the
sudden silence that en-
sued could be heard
frenzied objurgations
from the assistant
manager coping with a
stranger in the carpet
department. The as-
sistant manager had
the stranger down in
the shallow water, and
was applying himself
religiously to the chok-
ing of that callow
youth. “He did it.
He turned the water
on!” ejaculated the
homicidal drygoodsman
when they tore him off his victim ; and the
callow youth, a casual intruder from the
country, admitted his crime. He had turned
on the devastating hydrant, but he did it
with no unfriendly intent. He just wanted
to get a drink, he said.
“Quidam”: There seems to be a deep-
rooted conviction in the minds of the anti-pub
Wowsers of Australia that the working-
man who visits a pub goes home and beats
his wife. I have had a long experience of
non-teetotal Australian working-men —
people who work at hard, dreary, mono-
tonous toil from Monday morning to Satur-
day afternoon, and who on Saturday night
foregather in the streets, and frequent pubs,
and exchange misinformation and consume
beer —and absolutely not one has been a
wife-beater. I can say this the more defi-
nitely because my experience has been
mostly in mining camps, where anything like
wife-walloping would most certainly be
known. The great majority have been good
husbands and fathers, with a very marked
spirit of self-sacrifice towards those de-
pendent on them ; and the couple of bob spent
on beer on Saturday night has been almost
invariably regarded as recompense to “Dad”
for the discomforts and often the dangers he
has cheerfully undergone for the sake of his
home and family. I have come to the con-
clusion that man must have some break in
the monotony of life if he happens to be
chained to laborious hard-graft, and, in the
present state of society, beer and the cheer-
ful company that it engenders supply that
necessary break at small financial cost.
Moreover, few of the workers’ wives, to their
credit be it said, grudge “Dad” the few
hours’ relief that he gets on Saturday night
from the monotonous toil of the week. By
far the most of the workers I have known
have gone home on pay-day and handed their
wives the whole of their wages, and have
been returned sufficient to give them tobacco
and beer money. The rest has been left in
the hands of the wife to be spent as she
likes. What the nominal head of the house
bursts up is with the full and free consent
of his better half, who generally has a much
broader idea of justice than the average
Wowser. Incidentally, how many Wowsers
are Wowsers only because they are bossed
by their wives, and how many would be
wife-beaters if they were game?
* * * *
When they go out after a wife in the cow
districts of Maoriland they’re at least frank
about the requirements. Here’s a recent ad.
from a M.L. daily:—
YOUNG MAN (35 years), with small capital,
would like to meet young woman; view to matri-
mony ; must be good milker. Reply to “Matri-
mony,” Office.
Evidently any old kind of wife will do—a'
long as she can milk. Still, there’s this to
be said : the unblushing bride can’t bring an
action for wilful misdescription of the job
yyhen she is led out to milk 20 cows on her
wedding day.
THE OLD FOX.
“And my dear old boy is getting younger and
younger every day."
“Yes, I know. I haven't forgotten it’s your
birthday next week."
NEW YEAR REFLECTIONS.
Wring out the old —wring in the new.
“M ohu r r u in” : “Whip-poor-will” (B.
18/12/’l3) needn’t worship much at Shel-
ford’s willow from the grave of Napoleon.
Australia crawls with them. There used to
be a whole scrub at Balcombe’s Creek, near
Mornington (Vic.). The original Bal-
combes were merchants in St. Helena when
the Bloke of Destiny began his “stretch”
there, and were very friendly with him until
Sir Hudson Lowe got scared and limited
Nap’s walks abroad from Longwood. One
of the younger Balcombes came to Victoria
in the ’so’s, and brought the usual bundle of
historic-willow cuttings. Meredith (Vic.)
had another, imported by the late Colonel
Champ, one of the last Governors of Fort
Arthur, iiis interest in the tree was pos-
sibly professional. Queensland owns at
least two, one on the old Lowe station in the
Warwick district (the original Lowe is said
to have been a connection of Hudson Lowe),
and another near Oxley. Tasmania has one
or more at the New Norfolk Asylum, which
dates from the very early days. There is
more Napoleonic willow at Parramatta
(N.S.W.), unless, perchance, it has been re-
moved for personal wear by the homeless
Governor-General. In fact, there is a ten-
dency for any old willow to get labelled as
having been fertilised by the Corsican Ogre.
The cry of an Australian woman from
“gay Paris”: —
For Australia’s sake wear your pencil to a stub in
trying to keep out the Beef or any other trust that
sends up the price of food and puts the money into
the pockets of a few.
I am minding a bairn who is chasing fame in a
Paris atelier. When we came here the price of meat
flabbergasted us. It was summer, so we just boy-
cotted the boucherie; but at the advent of the cold
weather we had to cave in. One skinny, drought-
stricken mutton-chop costs the equivalent of five-
pence, and I have just placed under the griller
a shilling’s worth of steak that is the duplicate of
the piece that the Australian butcher slaps on to
your joint with his compliments to the cat. The
most rabid vegetarian would change his views had
he to employ labor here; the well-fed Australian
can do the work of three of these poor devils. And
no wonder. A lump of new bread, a stick of choco-
late, washed down with a pint of sour wine—poor
fuel this for a worker. And it isn’t that they don’t
like meat. They are meat-huhgry. We wondered
at first when we saw people even in good restaurants
cleaning up their plates with a piece of bread. We
don’t wonder any longer; gravy is too precious to
waste.
All sorts of substitutes for meat are offered. The
shops are filled now with barrels of snails, and
skewers of skinned horrors proclaim the frog season.
Rabbits are from four to five francs each. They
cut them up and you buy a portion. When I tell
them that in my country they are 40 centimes each
and a pest at that, they turn the subject. It is the
polite French way. Are we bad business people ?
The population of Paris is 2J millions or there-
abouts. If they could get rabbits at about eighteen-
pence each they would consume millions. But no
Australian rabbits or sheep are imported, for the
reason, I believe, that neither the Messageries Mari-
times nor the railways have refrigerating chambers.
Well, how much would Australia give to get rid of
her pest? A million sovereigns? Wouldn’t it pay to
subsidise the steamers or the railways to get this
market and ease us of our excess of bunny at the
same time ?
And keep on preaching Decentralisation! On our
Income four people could live in comfort in Aus-
tralia. Here we two women can only scrape along
on it. Rents are enormous. Big cities mean conges-
tion, and congestion means high rents. We pay
the rental of an Australian five-roomed cottage for
a small, dark back room, with a box they call a
kitchen, up three flights of stairs, and the outlook a
blank wall. In the house are about 24 similar
hutches, and in most of them live the parents and
the regulation two children. This is in the Luxem-
bourg quarter—the Randwick or Hawthorn of Paris.
God knows what it’s like in the Paris Woolloomooloo
or Collingwood.
Finally, take a firestick to your flats. Flats and
a declining birth-rate go hand in hand. It’s a brave
woman who will attempt to rear a family in a flat.
The landlord hates youngsters. The stair-cleaners
make it hell for them. The “no-family” occupants
complain of the noise. And the dangers of stairs
and windows keep the unhappy mother on the qui
vive and wreck her nerves.
“Alpha” meets China half-way : —-
Melbourne Bohemians seem more divided up than
of yore. Not that the old restaurant of Fasoli’s is
losing any of its attraction, but there appears to be
a kind of spreading-out into Lin Bun Yun’s down in
Lilly Buk-stleet. An accidental visit at midday to
the latter show discovered that the tucker was good
throughout, and very hot; Chinese tea, ,as white as
water, drunk from handleless. cups without either
milk or sugar, passed the time pleasantly while
waiting between courses. Soup, taken up in flat-
troughed porcelain ladles, was remarkable on account
of the queer little pastry packages containing chopped
pork. Then came roast duck cut into slices and
delightfully served up in canoes of patterned earthen-
ware, a separate saucer of very dark gravy accom-
panying each dish, into which the initiated deftly
dipped each slice of duck before conveying it to his
mouth. Chopsticks are only a nuisance to a new-
comer, and the way to take your tucker hot is to
use a fork or a spoon every time. The end -of the
feast is generally signalised by the appearance of a
fat pink cake the size of a bun, with a Chinese in-
scription done in red sugar on the top. It is heavy
and indigestible, and, to the novice, at any rate, the
least appetising piece in the whole menu. In the
centre of the cake, which is made of very solid
pastry, is a glutinous mixture of raisins and nuts
and bits of ginger held together by something re-
sembling honey and hair-oil. As for the writer, it
was only the water-colored tea that saved him, and,
on his next visit to Lin Bun Yun’s, he will eat
evervthing on the board, and enjoy it, too—every-
thing bar cakes. Cakes are off. The prices charged
vary a great deal; a “special dinner” costs a guinea
a head.
MY LADIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The peerless damsels that I love
Are everywhere for me to kiss.
Their loveliness is far above
My poor deserts ; but not amiss
They take it when I stoop to press
My lips to their lips’ winsomeness.
In fate’s grim face I fling my glove
And pledge the damsels that I love!
The damsels that I love are sweet
And frail as harebells in the spring;
They smile to me that time is fleet
And opportunity’s a-wing.
With every ecstasy they’re graced,
Demurely wise, divinely chaste.
For you the hoydens of the street—
The damsels that I love are sweet!
Now pledge my ladies gentlemen,
Since all mankind they hold in thrall;
Their troth is safe on hill and glen—-
Yes, till the very heavens fall!
So rare their charm in every eye
That no man can their faults descry. . . .
They range in age from three to ten. . . .
Now pledge my ladies, gentlemen !
MAOHII.AND.
FRANK MORTON.


WHEN THE GARBAGE GOMES HOME.
The Sea Hath Its Pearls—and other things.— (A popular picture modernised to suit some Sydney beaches.)


CLASS DISTINCTIONS.
"I then proceeded to complete the new Government, and have got together a first-class Liberal Ministry.” —Willie Watt.
WILLIE: “We’re a first-class Government.” THE PORTER: “With a third-class ticket.”


Mr. Storekeeper, Mr. Miller, Mr. Seedsman, are
vou aware that Smith’s Ltd. are making calico and
hessian bags suitable for your requirements? Smiths
print these bags in any number of colors; they are
anxious to obtain your business; they can save you
money on vour bag account; and are anxious to get
in touch with you. They will send you a sample
bag for purposes of comparison, duly printed.' if
you so desire. If courteous service and utmost value
at bedrock prices appeal to you, then write to the
“Bag specialists,” T. Smith Ltd., Sussex Street,
Sydney.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies. recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
TO IMPROVE LEMONADE, SODA OR PLAIN
WATER.
Just, as sauces and salt improve food, so. does O.T.
imnrove all other beverages. The addition of a little
O.T. to the above-named drinks greatly improves
their flavor and palatabilitv. O.T. is a fruit and herb
beverage, with a distinctive character and beneficial
properties.*
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS Jt WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, u
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
\
x.
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty-
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
_v
1 17 ■ '
i7u i »>°t •
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Heath Nash, who was a bit of a hero in his
day. has passed out most unobtrusively iu
Adelaide. As a matter of fact, having been
taken ill in the street, he was dead at the
hospital before his identity could be traced.
Nash was one of the nine who, in 1861-2,
accompanied McDouall Stuart across Aus-
tralia from Adelaide to the'northern ocean.
Their names are carved on the base of the
Stuart statue alongside the Adelaide G.P.O.
Only three of them are left now —King and
McGorrery in South Aus., and Billiatt in
England.
Edgar Waite, Yorkshirentan by birth, but
an Australian for the last 20 years, gets
promotion as museum-curator from Canter-
bury (M.L.) to Adelaide, at £5OO a year.
Fish are Waite’s specially strong point;
N.S.W. made him zoologist to the Thetis
trawling expedition, and it was he who re-
ported on Sh|ickleton’s Antarctic catch, and
will in due time deal with Mawson’s. The
curatorsliip he will fill at Adelaide has pre-
viously been held by Professor Stirling in
an honorary way in the intervals of his medi-
cal teaching jit the University.
Australia has numerous descendants of
John Foster, the last Speaker of the Irish
House of Commons, created Lord Oriel od
his retirement. Justice Foster, of Sydney,
was a great-grandson; John Foster Vesey
Fitzgerald Foster, twice Colonial Secretary
of Victoria, and Treasurer in the first
O’Shanassy Ministry, was a grandson ; and
Chief Justice W. F. Stawell, of Victoria,
was also a grandson, through his mother.
The Foster/ family owns the mace and
Speaker’s; Chair which were last used in the
Irish Parliament.
STEPHEN PARKER, Chief Justice of
W A., just retired.
“Tom” Garrett, Registrar of Probate and
Curator of Intestate Estates, has been
appointed first N.S.W. public trustee under
the Act passed a few months ago. He is a
son of Thomas Garrett, an old Parliament-
arian and Minister for Lands. “Young
Tom” earned early fame as a cricketer, and
was one of the first Australian XI to visit
England.
The new M.L.A. for Ashburnliam
(N.S.W.), Arthur Grimm, is a son of that
Rev. George Grimm, a Presbyterian minister,
who wrote “The Australian Explorers,” pub-
lished by George Robertson in 1888, and for
many years regarded as the best book on the
subject.
ELMS LIE, leader
of the Vic. Labor
parly, and the
State's first Labor
Premier.
For January 14 a unique ceremony is
planned by Sydney Methodies. On that day
it will be 50 years since a party of young
parsons arrived from England—Richard
Sellers, F. T. Brentnall, Charles Stead, W.
E. Bourne and J. N. Manning. Though half
a century has ambled past, all five are alive
and well enough to look forward cheerfully
to the harbor excursion at which it is pro-
posed to entertain them.
Dead in Adelaide, at 86, T. E. Keen, oldest
of the many Methodist ministers in that
State. He was born in Somerset, but had
been an Australian since 1855, mud did some
sturdy devil-chasing at Sandhurst and
Castlemaine (Vic.) in the ’6o’s. That only
lasted 20 years, a mere incident in his career,
and the rest of his time was spent in South
Aus. —at Moonta mines and other sinful
places.
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Ashur Hart, who was buried in the Jewish section
of Rookwood Cemetery ( Sydney) on Christmas Day,
was a very old Australian, if not a native. I knew
him in Melbourne as a lad, a junior clerk in the
Metropolitan Gas Co.’s office, and a member of an
amateur theatrical club, with which he made several
appearances, one being as Cassio in “Othello.” Com-
ing to Sydney he joined the betting ring, and was
a prominent member at a time when Phin Thomp-
son flourished and betting shops were in full swing.
Double-event betting and “backing” brought Phin
Thompson, Ashur Hart and others to grass. For
some years Mr. Hart was a leading member of
Tattersall’s, and secretary to the Australian Book-
makers’ Association. Latterly he had taken to hotel-
keeping, and to the end continued a thorough sport.
He leaves a widow and nine children.
One Sydney paper had almost too much
to say about W. 11. Whiddon, who subsides
into the chair of the late L. Spiller, Taxation
Commissioner. The informative journal,
after remarking that the new man was 55
years of age, and that he had been in the
Department since 1895, hurried on to say
(1) that he was an excellent pianist, and
was considered to be one of the best amateur
conductors in Sydney; (2) that he was for
some time conductor of the Metropolitan
Liedertafel. since gone out of existence; (3)
that he had been conductor of the Petersham
Choral Society for about six years; and (4)
that he had directed the music at three dif-
ferent churches. Then it harked back to the
subject of taxation and remarked that the
appointment was most popular in the depart-
ment. It seemed a pity to drag in taxation
again, but perhaps some reference to it was
considered necessary.
With his election to the Speaker’s chair
in the N.S.W. Assembly, the “coming back”
of Richard Denis Meagk* begins to look
like an accomplished fact. It has been
a long and arduous struggle, but in
view of the latest development the
chances are that when he applies again
the Full Court will remove the curse
that prevents him practising his profession.
It was refused last time only because he had
neglected to publicly apologise to the mem-
ory of Justice Windeyer—which looked too
much like flamboyant humbug on the part of
the Court to stand as an excuse for long.
A centenarian who can prove it is George
Sara, of windy Willunga, 30 miles south of
Adelaide. The ancient has just undergone
various “celebrations” at the township which
has been his headquarters since 1848. On
the Sabbath when he reached his three-figure
score he walked to “chapel” half a mile or
more in a hot wind, in company with a troop
of descendants. Amongst these were two
sons, who still work amidst bricks and mortar
though their combined ages total 150 years,
and there are two grandsons who are them-
selves grandfathers. Mr. Sara with his sons
did a lot of public-works building in the
early days of South Aus. Late Premier Tom
Price got hi-s first job in the country with
the firm of Sara and Sons. Thirty years
or so ago the family opened up slate
quarries at Willunga on a big scale, but
the bursting of the Melbourne boom put them
down and out. After that the patriarch of
the flock returned to hard work for a number
of years, and still attacks the domestic wood-
heap daily.
R. D. Meagher, trained as an attorney
and de-rolled in consequence of his connec-
tion with the notorious Dean case, is the
13th Speaker of the N. S. Wales Assembly,
and the fourth lawyer to reach the chair.
Dan Cooper, the first Speaker, held the seat
for three years and eight months. Terence
Aubrey Murray was in it for two
years and nine months before he re-
signed. John Hay had two years and
three months of it. William Mannings
Arnold, who was drowned in a flood in
the Paterson while trying to save sixpenny-
worth of pumpkins, put up a record with nine
years and four months. Wigram Allen, the
first lawyer in the billet, followed, and his
score was seven years and eight months.
Edmund Barton, the only barrister to hold
the brief, kept it for four years and four
weeks. Then James H. Young, three, years
and eight months; Joseph Palmer Abbott,
nine years and eight months; and William
McCourt, from June, 1900, till the advent of
J. 11. Gann three years ago. Cann was fol-
lowed by Willis; and Willis by Morton as
chair-warmer for Meagher. The only two to
pull off knighthoods while they were in the
chair were Allen and Abbott. Though there
is apparently no significance in (he fact,
Meagher is understood to be the first R.C.
to be chosen.
CRISP, late Mayor of Hobart.
Tbe place of Harry Levien, “father” of
the N.S.W. Assembly, has been taken by
the “baby” of the House —one Chaffey, who is
only 25. Thus Levien was an old inhabitant
in the Tamworth seat before his successor
was born. The “father” of the House is now
C A. Lee, who has represented Tenterfield
since 1882.
THE SMITH WHO FOUND HIMSELF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God bless me! When I contemplate
The crowds and crowds of Smiths I’ve known
’Tis with dismay I note that they
Such lack of enterprise have shown.
Of all the multitude of Smiths
Who’ve mooned about this busy earth,
’Tis but a few have filled the view
Of continents, as men of worth.
And is the name a handicap
Upon the members of that race?
On land and sea some Smith should be
In ev'ry seventh honored place.
Where’er my weary feet have trod
About this continent immense,
In or around each place I’ve found
Some Smiths or Smythes in evidence.
But ever are their lines obscure.
It is a mystery to me.
I’ve racked my brain, but can’t explain
Why this phenomenon should be.
The thing is inexplicable,
And such a theme to struggle with
Were no avail. But here’s the tale
Of Everard Uriah Smith.
’Tis quite a dozen years, or more,
Since Everard Uriah Smith,
Still quite a boy, sought the employ
Of Mister Thomas Istletwith.
They say the chance of fortune rests
With ev’ry honest working man;
And Everard, by working hard,
Became a skilful artisan.
His chief ambition was to be
(He was a very modest Smith)
A foreman in the factory
Of Mister Thomas Istletwith.
To all his hands a mighty man
Was Thomas Istletwith, Esquire.
His subtle brain, his schemes for gain,
They deemed it seemly to admire.
And chief amongst his worshippers
Was Everard Uriah Smith.
His god, his joss, he made his boss,
The towering Thomas Istletwith.
By day he toiled, at night he prayed
To earn this wondrous master’s praise,
Contented he a “hand” to be,
And work for wages all his days.
Now, had not Fate decreed that he
Should hitch his modest waggonette
On to a star, the chances are
Smith would have been a workman yet.
But, as some dire catastrophe,
There came a blessing, well-disguised ;
And Smith, alack, he got the sack.
No Smith was ever more surprised.
In vain he pleaded with the boss
(O anguished, flabbergasted Smith!)
That god’s decree was plain, and he
Must leave the House of Istletwith.
Upon high Heav’n he called to gaze
On what he called his “ruined life.”
Then home he went, with sorrow bent,
And wept in chorus with his wife.
Smith’s uncle on his mother’s side,
A man of probity and worth,
AVhen made aware of Smith’s despair
Was moved to most unseemly mirth.
There’s virtue in a name, 1 ween.
This uncle he was keen and slick.
Docs not his name denote the same?
’Twas Ebenezer Pennyquick.
Said Uncle Eb.: “Buck up, me boy !
You have some money put away.”
(For, while he’d slaved, Smith pinched and saved
Against a dreaded rainy day.)
“Call up your cash,” quoth Uncle Eb.,
“And I’ll advance a little loan. .
You’ll have the stuff—more than enough—
To start a business of your own.”
Aghast at such a sacrilege
Stood Everard Uriah Smith.
What! lie compete in trade to beat
The mighty Thomas Istletwith !
But Uncle Eb. at last prevailed.
Smith made a start and plugged along.
When Istletwith the sign of Smith
Beheld, his laugh was loud and long.
I wot you like a story short —-
’Tis meeter so, I’ve not a doubt.
Just let me say that, day by day,
Smith’s latent talent blossomed out.
And, though the years that followed were
Years of prosperity for Smith,
A gloomy term ’twas for the firm
Of Mister Thomas Istletwith.
I vow a tale is better brief,
No matter be it spoke or sung;
But, by the way, just let me say
That, later, Istletwith went bung.
’Tis now far-famed throughout the land,
The well-known firm of E. U. Smith.
His manager—who calls him “Sir” —-
Is humble Thomas Istletwith.
Gird up your loins, ye Smiths! Are you
Content to linger on the shelf ?
If you’d be great, why, emulate
This simple Smith, who found himself.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


The pleasure of your holidays
will be enhanced by tailing with
you a supply of :
WILLS’ 5
CAPSTAN
(Navy\
Cut /
CIGARETTES.
Everybody's F avorite.
""THE particularly satisfying qualities of “CAPSTAN” Cigarettes
are the outcome of skilful blending of specially selected high-
class grades of Virginian Leaf, coupled-with perfect manufacture
under ideal conditions. The Aroma and Flavor are distinctive, and
there is no other Cigarette anywhere sold at the same price to
compare with them. New brands are continually being introduced
to endeavor to draw smokers away from “CAPSTANS,” but
v/ithout success.
The renown of “CAPSTAN” Cigarettes in all parts of the
world was gained and is held by their absolute superiority of quality
and manufacture over every other 3d. brand of Cigarette.
For the convenience of smokers, the Manufacturers are
packing this brand in packets of 20, convenient for the pocket.
They can also be obtained in hermetically sealed tins of 50—a
special packing to keep the Cigarettes in perfect condition in any
climate, or when travelling by sea. Take a tin of “CAPSTAN S”
for the holidays.
i
W. D. H. O. WILLS.


TO STOREKEEPERS
Why Carry Large Stocks of Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps, when we can deliver
one or one dozen as you order from our stock?
Write to use for prices on the DEANE Model A., Single Cylinder Double Acting Power Pumps,
with Brass-lined Cylinders.
AGENTS in every State. If not in stock in your State, apply to—
SIMPSON BROTHERS, 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
COUNTRY AGENTS REQUIRED.
Steam Turbines coupled to Dynamos, Alternators, Pumps, Blowers, Fans, etc.
The Original Inventors of Parsons' Type.
C. A. PARSONS 8 CO., Newcastle-on-Tyne,
HAVE SUPPLIED OVER 60,000 B.H.P. OF TURBINES IN AUSTRALIA ALONE.
Sole Australasian WILLIAM ADAMS <&. COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents — Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUM
Here are two sets of N.S.W. official figures
brought together:—
Loan Expenditure Net Earnings
during year per train
on Railways mile,
and Tramways. s. d.
1907 .. £421,742 3 5
1908 .. 1,363,314 3 14
1909 . . 2,127,633 2 9"
1910 .. 2,471,284 2 10i
1911 .. 2,547,672 2 9J
1912 . . 3,448,127 2 6
1913 . . 4,618,967 2 24
Sept., 1913 . . 1 nj
Two things are happening: (1) The pouring out of
borrowed money has created a boom, which means
simply a period of fictitious prices. To meet those
fictitious prices wages have had to go up wholesale :
but fares and freights have not gone up correspond-
ingly. On the contrary, while running costs have
increased, fares and freights have been reduced in
many cases, with the result that the net earnings
per train mile are now very little more than one-
half of what they were in 1907. (2) Such an ex-
cessive amount of loan money is being spent that the
State is getting poor value for its money ; moreover,
lines are being built or partly built to places which
yield such wretched traffic that the average earnings
for all lines are being seriously affected thereby.
Unfortunately the cessation of the boom will not
abolish the excessive debt which has been incurred
on these premature lines, many of which will be a
millstone round the neck of the taxpayers. To
square accounts one or more of three things are
inevitable: (1) fares and freights will have to be
increased (which will probably affect traffic the
wrong way, and will, therefore, be no remedy at all) ;
(2) costs will have to be reduced, which means
wholesale retrenchment in the railway and tram-
way service, a horribly unpleasant thing to look for-
ward to, but nevertheless the thing which follows
every boom; (3) increased taxation, which means
that the people who don’t use the railways and
tramways will pay some of the fares and freights of
those who do use them. None of these things are
pleasant; but on the figures in the second column
they are clearly inevitable.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Government Statistician
issued in mid-December an estimate that a record
crop of 41,800,000 bushels of wheat, averaging 13.3
bushels to the acre, would be harvested in the State,
as against 32,487,336 bushels in the previous year,
when the average was 14.6 bushels. Mr. Trivett’s
estimate for this harvest will not be reached, accord-
ing to The Bulletin's reports from various parts
of the country. Last year the harvest was better
than it looked when the strippers got to work ; this
year, in many instances, crops which looked like 16
bushels are not giving more than 12. On present
appearances, N. S. Wales will have at least £500,000
less to put in its purse than it would have if the
official estimate were realised.
The Australian Amicable Assurance
Association (Sydney):—The prospectus of this co. was
issued early in 1912, and the first accounts cover the
period from February 9, 1912, to September 30, 1913.
As usual, the figures for the first term are not at all
attractive. The premium income has been only
£946: claims, including policies cancelled for cash,
£206; expenses, exclusive of payments made in
cash and shares to promoters, £7301. The payments
to promoters, including £5OOO in shares, amounted
to £6OOO. The paid share capital is £13,709. The
final result is as follows:
Capital £13,709
Premium Income .. .. .. £946
Interest, etc. ... .. .. . . 96
1,042
Total receipts .. .. .. ..£14,751
Paid to promoters .. .. ..£6OOO
Claims . . . . .. .. .. 206
Expenses .. .. .. . . 7301
13,507
Cash and other assets less liabilities .. £1,244
Which means that of all the capital so far paid for
shares and of all the money received as premiums and
interest only £1244 is left. And the co. has still
to face the liabilities under the policy contracts,
though, judging by the insignificant amount received
as premiums, those liabilities are not heavy. The
position, on the figures, is thus pretty dreadful. In
the first place, an absurdly extravagant sum was paid
to the promoters. For their £lOOO in cash they did
something; they agreed to pay “all preliminary
costs, including advertising, legal expenses, printing,
stationery, postage, etc., down to the date of the
first general allotment of shares, except brokerage
and underwriting commission,” and they appear to
have spent a considerable sum in advertising, though
whether that was of much value to the co. is another
matter. But for the 10,000 shares fully paid to 10s.
they gave nothing of any consequence, so far as The
Bulletin can see.
In the abridged prospectus available, no mention
is made of any minimum on which the co. might go
to allotment. Neither is the abridged prospectus
dated, as every prospectus ought to be. Indeed, it is
highly questionable whether the law should permit any
“abridged prospectus” to be issued, accompanied by
an application form for shares. In this case it is
fairly plain that the co. went to allotment on a mere
handful of shares, and all the subsequent outlay in
canvassing for shares at great expense has been borne
by the co. The revenue account thus shows no less
than £2608 spent in “commissions and advances to
agents on shares placed and business written,” and
there is very little doubt that a great deal also of
the £4364 debited to “expenses of management” has
gone in pushing off shares. It is only fair to sav
that, though but £8709 of capital has been got from
the public, £8951 is payable as uncalled capital and
allotment money. Still the cost of placing the shares
has been so large as to be almost grotesque ; and on top
of that is the £6OOO in shares and cash which went
to the promoters. And there are other outgoings
which are little short of prodigal. As mentioned
already, the premium income was £946, including
consideration for fire and accident, as well as life,
policies; and against that insignificant amount of
business, Board fees totalling £454 have been paid
(this is exclusive of the salary of the genera] manager,
who is also chairman of directors) and medical exes.
£l7B (and the chief medical officer is also a director,
according to the prospectus). Outgoings at this rate,
if continued, will give the co. very little chance of
pulling through. The establishment of an insurance
office demands a lot of energy and persistence, and for
some years a good deal of self-sacrifice from the
people who are pushing it, and who hope to enjoy
with shareholders a subsequent rich harvest. Where
there isn’t any self-sacrifice there isn’t likely to be
any rich harvest —if any harvest at all.
But there is a more hopeful side to the business. If
the shares have been placed only at heavy expense, they
at any rate appear to have been widely distributed. The
prospectus moreover encourages shareholders to send
their business—fire business in particular—to the
co.: a rebate is to be allowed to shareholders. If
the management curbs its extravagance and leaves a
little money in the bag, this system will no doubt
result in the co. getting a good many policies without
canvassing for them ; and that should mean a low
expense rate. The premium income for the first year
is no criterion of the business that is likely to be got
through this inducement to shareholders to be prac-
tically their own insurance agents, inasmuch as no
doubt most of them have their risks already covered
in other offices, with which they may or may not
renew. There is certainly hope for the co. in this
method of co-operation.
The co. takes life business as well as fire and acci-
dent. It is a mistake. In fact, it is so much a
mistake that in some countries —Canada, for in-
stance —the mixture is not permitted. Life insurance
and fire insurance are two quite distinct businesses,
and the man who knows enough of fire to run a fire
office isn’t at all likely to know enough of life to
run a life office at the same time. In any case, the
funds of a life office should not be subject to a fire
hazard, which can’t be actuarially calculated. The
co. had therefore better make up its mind to be one
thing or the other; and it will probablv not have
much difficulty in deciding that its chances are
infinitely better in fire and accident than in life.
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of
Tasmania (Launceston, Tasmania) :
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1901 ..£3793 7 p.c. =£275(5 £1037 £22,323
1902 . . 4541 7 „ „ 2756 1785 24,108
1903 . . 5894 8 „ ~ 3150 2744 26,852
1904 . . 5474 8 „ „ 3150 2324 29,176
1905 . . 3876 8 „ „ 3150 726 29,902
1906 . . 3781 8 „ „ 3150 631 30,533
1907 . . 5697 8 „ „ 3150 2547 33,080
1908 . . 4968 9 „,, 3544 1424 34.504
1909 . . 5520 10 ~ ~ 3937 1583 36,087
1910 . . 4531 10 ~ ~ 3984 547 36,634
1911 .. 4423 10 „ „ 3937 486 37,120
1912 . . 4695 10 „ „ 3937 758 37,878
1913 . . 4003 10 „ „ 3937 66 37,944
That last line doesn’t look well—a paltry £66 added
to reserves during the year. In fact, as the reserves
include premiums which have been only partly
earned, and as the proportion of unearned premiums
is greater now than it was 12 months ago, nothing
whatever has been added to true reserves. But
things are really not as bad as that. On the con-
trary, the co. has had a remarkably good year so
far as losses go ; but it has been organising an acci-
dent branch, and the expenses—amounting to some-
thing over £l5O0 —have been all debited to this
year, and thus very properly got rid of for good.
This shows the principal features of the business in
detail:—
Pre- Loss Expense
miurns. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37.1 p.c. 44.8 p.c.
1905 . . 5844 2959 2248 50.6 „ 38.4 „
1907 . . 6043 1043 2398 17.2 „ 39.7 „
1908 . . 6233 2263 2401 36.3 „ 38.5 „
1909 . . 6352 1651 2496 25.9 ~ 39.3 „
1910 . . 6220 2206 2576 35.4 „ 41.4 „
1911 .. 6135 2267 2989 36.9 „ 48.7 „
1912 . . 6359 1967 3266 30.9 „ 51.3 „
1913 . . 7008 1461 4930 20.8 „ 70.5 ~
The expense rate never is small; but the extra
£l5OO or more falling on top of the normal outlay
has run the rate up to 70| p.c. Fortunately the re-
serves are solid, or with an expense rate of that size
the 10 p.c. dividend would make a hole in the accu-
mulations. As it is, the interest earnings brought in
£3397, so there wasn’t much left for the underwriting
to make up. The paid capital is £37,500; and the
reserves now exceed the capital. And as there is a
liability of £150,000 on the issued shares (there are
37,500 of them, of £5 paid to £1) the policy-
holders are entitled to feel very comfortable. As a
matter of fact, the co. could this year meet losses 19
times greater than the average for the past five years,
and still have the whole of its capital intact. That
is a most remarkable position to be in. It would
be better for the shareholders*if the position wasn’t
so strong—in other words, if their risks were much
greater. Business in Tasmania has, however, in-
creased very slowly. Some day, perhaps, the office
may feel energetic enough to gradually push its way
into the Australian mainland. There is no reason
why it shouldn’t. Even though the new depart-
ments may bring some extra business, the co.’s
resources are big enough now to provide the proper
backing for much larger figures than the co.’s small,
unprogressive island can supply. The capital and
reserves are quite adequate to back a premium in-
come of £25,000 instead of £7OOO, and if it made
an underwriting profit of only 10 p.c. .on the extra
£lB,OO0 —which would be an extraordinarily small
percentage—there would be another 4} p.c. available
for the shareholders.
Launceston Municipal Tramways
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Total Profits In-
Capital (less Exes, on terest To Re-
July, Outlay. Maintenance). Paid. Reserves, serves
1912. . £59,337 £4922 £2162 £2760 £2760
1913.. 68,178 3923 2553 1370 4130
Launceston, having established successful electric light
works some years ago, and having a source of cheap
power, decided—after being humbugged for some
time by private syndicates—to provide itself with a
municipal tramway system. As in connection with
the lighting enterprise, it decided that, though it
must borrow the capital in the first place, it would
do the proper thing and establish a .sinking fund, so
that it might in the course of between 40 and 50 years
really own the tramways. That, almost of necessity,
involved something else—a renewal fund. For obvi-
ously tramways won’t last for ever; there isn’t an
atom of plant, rolling stock or permanent way that
won t have to be renewed at some time or other. Inci-
dentally, a maintenance account was also created, and
into this account 2d. per car-mile is paid; out of this
it was believed that the general upkeep could be
provided for. It seems improbable, however, that it
will be sufficient for the purpose. In the first year
the outlay on maintenance was naturally small, and
the 2d. per car-mile gave enough and £548 over.
But in the second year it wasn’t enough by £lO7.
The shrinkage in the profit for the past year is due
to (1) increased working exes, and (2) an increase
of £1164 in the cost of repairs and maintenance.
Moreoever, as the works were barely two years old at
the end of the second period under review, the outlay
on repairs and maintenance is not yet as large as it
will be. If so, unless revenue can be increased with-
out any corresponding increase in working costs,
profits will be cut down so fine that, after providing
for the sinking fund, there will be precious little
available for the renewal reserve. The sinking fund
is definitely provided for by a charge at the rate of
1 p.c. of the capital; but the renewal reserve depends
on any odds and ends that are available. This isn’t
good enough. It isn’t very much use providing for
the repayment of loans so that the town shall really
own its tramways if the tramways are not worth
owning when the repayment is made. The Bulletin
therefore urges- the Launceston Council to make up its
mind to put (say) p.c. of the capital outlay into
a special renewals fund, such fund to be drawn upon
only for works that cannot be fairly charged up to
repairs and maintenance. Then having provided for
sinking fund and renewals fund and paid for current
maintenance, the Council will know just where it
stands —whether it is being too liberal to its cus-
tomers or not. As long as the Council merely takes
for the renewals fund such odds and ends 'as are
available, it is liable to deceive itself. And, anyway
the system is untidy.
Profits for the past year ( £3923) include the in-
terest on the sinking and renewal funds; and as no
interest was earned in the first year, the second year’s
figures, so far as the tramways themselves are con-
cerned, are even less satisfactory by comparison than
■ indicates. Probably owing to the novelty
me thing at the outset, the average earnings per
-™]e m the first year were 13.3 d.; in the second
year, i—sd. But while the earnings per car-mile
were less running exes, were a half-penny more —5.6 d.
as against o.ld. And, as has been shown already,
maintenance was about I4d. more, and is bound to
increase. In the circumstances it seems highly prob-
apie that the enterprise is sailing too close to the
wind, and in order to keep straight will have to
inciease its revenue without any corresponding increase
in expenditure—that is to say, assuming it wants to
do the fair and honest thing, by keeping its sinking
tund going, and at the same time providing a proper
amount for the replacement of plant, etc. At present
this paper doesn’t believe it is quite doing that much.
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and
Dairy Produce Export Co. (Maoriland):—
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902.. £11,610 8 p.c. = £6,000 £5,000 £6lO £9,829
1903.. 12,213 S,, „ 6,000 3,500 2,713 12,542
Premiums on new shares.. .. 5,400 17,942
Loss.
1904.. 2,315 4 p.c. = 3,927 11,700
Premiums on new shares.. .. 1,329 13,029
Profit.
1905.. i 5 ,074 { 6 P-C-pref. 4,3231 _
1906.. 23,838 ] | ” - 10,639 30,074
1907.. 20,810{g ” gOO J. 6>ooo 2,612 32,686
1908.. 15,071 6 p.c. = 11,023 3,500 548 33,234
1909.. 17,493 6,, ~ 11,023 3,500 2,970 36,204
1910.. 45,944 {« ” P 18,972 13,774 49,978
1911 - 21 ’ 946 |s ;; ord!" 8:698} 4,135 54,113
1 9 12.. 24,852 -J g 4,340 7,314 61,427
1913.. 45,41 2 { 9 ” o P r r t f’ 8 4 j 99 {- 15 ,078 17,141 78,568
Ihe co. has had a rattling good year; nevertheless
14 ! in j WS sort of rather erratic business it is in,
and doesn’t lose its head and hand out a dizzy
dividend. The amount divided is less than one-third
of the profit; the other two-thirds go to the replace-
ment or depreciation of plant and to formal reserves.
Owing largely no doubt to the directors’ policy of
writing plant and such assets down severely, and also
of keeping the dividends very moderate even in good
times, the co. carries on without leaning much on
the moneylender. Here is the whole position in that
respect:—
Assets: Premises, plant, etc. .. .. £272,200
Stock, book debts, etc. . . 69,762
Total assets £341,962
Less capital and reserves . . . . 262,295
Liabilities .. .. .. £79,667
And of those liabilities the greater part is on ordinary
trading account. Altogether, the concern appears to
be very prudently managed.
W. E. Smith, Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery business in
Sydney, as from October, 1910: —
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Oct., 1910 .. £19,068
Apr., 1911 ..£3947 10 p.c. = £3408 18,529
Oct., 1911 . . 5354 10 „ „ 3408 £677 17,260
Apr., 1912 .. 5122 4 „ „ 1500 702 14,340
Oct., 1912 . . 4382 7 „ „ 2625 717 13,300
Apr., 1913 ... 3867 3 „ „ 1125 747 11,305
Oct, 1913 .. 3182 3 „,, 1125 1017 10,265
The original deficit was represented by preliminary
exes, and the price paid for goodwill. The valuation
put on the goodwill was most excessive. Possibly if
W. E. Smith had remained in the business, and if
Providence had guaranteed his life for 25 years, and
if somebody else had guaranteed that Mr. Smith
would keep his heart in the job of getting big orders
—at which he was an adept—the price might have
been reasonable. But W. E. Smith took compara-
tively little interest in the business after the co. was
formed, and died very soon afterwards; and on top
of that came numerous Wages Board awards giving
rises to operatives in this trade. This co. was singu-
larly badly situated so far as the subsequent keen
competition was concerned. First, there was the
goodwill. Dozens of other people in the business
had, and have, only their actual capital to earn in-
terest on; this one has a fictitious capital of nearly
£20,000 as well. Again, dozens of other printers
are not so seriously affected by Wages Board
awards. It doesn’t cost much money to set up
some sort of a printery, and there are scores of little
offices run by the boss himself —backed, in a good
many cases, by the wholesale printing-outfit mer-
chant. The boss in such cases isn’t governed by
Wages Board awards, and his competition is a serious
matter for the big office which is dependent entirely
on men who work under an award. And, finally, as
the co. didn’t start with enough capital to buy and
house the plant which every new co. thinks it ought
to put in, £20,000 had to be raised on 6 p.c. deben-
tures ; and the debenture capital, plus the heavy
amortisation necessary to restore the capital repre-
sented by leaseholds, cuts badly into the gross profits.
The directors naturally don’t feel very cheerful
about the present position, and are not exactly bub-
bling over as to the immediate future. They “feel
that until some reasonable method is adopted gener-
ally of ensuring a fair profit on orders, and of pass-
ing on to customers the continuing advances, in
wages, better results cannot be expected.” One
trouble, as mentioned just now, is that in this trade
the aggregate competition of men who are not
affected by “the continuing advances in wages” is
quite serious. In addition to the £20,000 of deben-
tures already spoken of, the co. has liabilities —
mostly trade debts —amounting to £5486. The
substantial assets to represent capital and liabilities
include stock £37,703, plant £21,805, book debts
£16,266, factory (apparently freehold) £6570, and
leasehold warehouse in Bridge-street £4012. The
leasehold (with fittings) calls for amortisation at
the rate of about £650 a year. Which is one of the
gruelling handicaps already alluded to, unless, of
course, the co. gets the money back in the shape
of a very low rental. The sum shown as written off
is in depreciation of plant.
* * * *
The Haymarket Permanent Land,
Building and Investment Co. (Sydney) :
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900.. £2344 3 p.c. = £2201 £143 £41,065
1901.. 2369 3 „ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902.. 2922 3 „ „ 2308 614 41,777
1903.. 2590 3 „ „ 2477 113 41,890
1904.. 3044 3 „ „ 2584 460 42,350
1905.. 3017 3 „ „ 2595 422 42,772
1906.. 3349 3$ „ „ 3061 288 43,060
1907.. 3872 4 „ „ 3534 £lO,OOO 33,398
1908.. 4856 4 „„ 3587 1,000 269 33,667
1909.. 4142 4 „ „ 3599 543 34,210
1910.. 7403 51 ~,, 4958 2445 36,655
1911.. 7071 6 „ „ 5417 17,836 20,473
1912.. 7839 7 „ „ 6340 1499 21,972
1913.. 7540 7 „„ 6348 1192 23,164
This co. has certainly shown much better profits
during the past four years; but it hasn’t been the
same brilliant success as one or two others in the
land-subdivision business. For a co. that was able
to grasp the opportunity there could scarcely be a
better chance than Sydney has offered during the last
few years. The congestion policy, the borrowing
boom' the fillip given to manufactures by the Com-
monwealth tariff, and the bumper wool-clips and
harvests have conspired to make the city and suburbs
buzz as they never buzzed before. Almost simultane-
ously, the progressive land tax made suburban estates
available in large blocks at comparatively low prices.
If the Haymarket had had its capital free it might
therefore have had as gorgeous a time as the Inter-
colonial. Unluckily for shareholders, when the new
boom came the co. was still loaded up with pro-
perties bought at old boom prices; and, still more
unluckily, the bulk of those assets were country
lands, including the big Furracabad Estate, near Glen
Innes. Apparently the co. has been pushing off this
and other country properties ; but the boom in them
has been nothing like that in suburban allotments,
partly, no doubt, because the State has been meeting
some of the demand for country land by repurchas-
ing estates and subdividing them and by throwing
open reserves and leaseholds as they became avail-
able. So the Haymarket hasn’t shown anything ex-
ceptional in the way of profits ; and, though a 7 p.c.
dividend has latterly been paid, the 40s. shares are
still at a discount of nearly 10s. —which is some
sort of an indication that, in the judgment of the
market, not only are there no real reserves at all,
but the assets are still so much overvalued that even
the capital isn’t all intact. However, the market
may be all wrong, and the assets may be all right.
The insider may know the facts of the case. The
outsider doesn’t. Even the ordinary shareholder
doesn’t.
So far as the balance-sheet discloses the position,
here it is:—
Liabilities.
Nov., Nov., May, Nov.,
1900. 1912. 1913. 1913.
Capital .. .. £75,176 £90,696 £90.708 £90,708
Deposits . . . . 50,689 53,768 48,055 46,388
Overdraft .. .. 3,097 10,330 16,362 13,594
Other debts .. 42,462 59,848 57,436 59,551
Assets.
Advances, etc. . . 42,003 120,845 118.600 114,768
City properties .. 57,803 34,162 34,004 34,050
, Other properties .. 106,314 83,363 84,530 86,116
Cash .. .. 7,209 1,197 930 1,389
Since 1900 advances, etc. —“secured balances on loans
and properties sold”—have grown from £42,003 to
£114,768, which suggests that the co. has got rid
of a good deal of property; but it still holds
£34,050 in the city and £86,116 (both book
values) in the country—a very heavy swag to carry
at what undoubtedly looks like the tail end of a
property boom. Liabilities are also heavy, amounting
altogether to £119,533, which is considerably more
than the capital; and whether the assets represented
by that money are productive or not, the interest
bill must be met. On account of this heavy load of
borrowed money, the interest on which must take
the agreed-upon bite out of revenue whether revenue
is good or bad, the net profits are always liable to
vary tremendously. For instance, if the assets bring
in 6 p.c. net, then the profit available for sharehold-
ers, after paying 5 p.c. interest on the deposits, over-
draft, etc., would be £7BOO. But if in a slump the
assets brought in only 4 p.c. net, the amount left
for shareholders, after paying the interest, would be
only £3200. The trouble in a case of this sort is
that the creditors won’t take less interest because
the assets are earning less. They are, in fact, more
inclined to demand higher interest on the ground
that the security is plainly poorer than it used to be.
* * * *
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and
Co., druggists, etc. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1905.. £5,959 10 p.c. = £6,000 £2,014
Feb., 1906.. 7,124 10 „ „ 6,000 £1124 3,138
Aug., 1906.. 6,338 10 „ „ 6,000 338 3,476
Feb., 1907 . . 6,390 10 ~ ~ 6,000 390 3,866
Aug., 1907 . . 6,730 10 „ „ 6,000 730 4,596
Feb., 1908 . . 6,198 10 „ „ 6,000 198 4,794
Aug., 1908 . . 8,232 10 „ „ 6.000 2232 7,026
Feb., 1909 . . 10,780 15 „ „ 9,000 1780 8,806
Aug., 1909.. 11,214 15 „ „ 9,000 £'.. : 11,020
Feb., 1910 . . 11,020 15 „ „ 9,000 2020 13,040
Aug., 1910.. 11,016 15 „ „ 9,000 2016 '5,056
Feb., 1911.. 11,085 15 „ „ 9,000 2085 17,141
Aug., 1911.. 11,988 15 „ ~ 9,000 2988 20,129
Feb., 1912 . . 16,033 25 „ „ 15,000 1033 21,162
Aug., 1912 .. 14,634 20 „ „ 12,000 2634 23,796
Feb., 1913 . . 16,340 20 „ „ 12,000 4340 28,136
£30,000 of reserves transferred to capital
Aug., 1913.. 18,373 15 p.c. = 13,500 4873 3,009
This belated table is dropped in here more for pur-
poses of record than anything else. The actual pro-
fit for the last half-year is said to have been £16,509 ;
but another £1864 was got in from somewhere to
make up the £30,000 recently distributed in shares
among the lucky people whose names were on the
register—-
Transferred from Reserve Fund.. ..£20,000
Transferred from P. and L. balance .. 8,136
Transferred from undisclosed reserves .. 1,864
Total reserves capitalised .. .. £30,000
Incidentally, another £30,000 of capital was got in,
thus carrying the capital up from £120,000 to
£lBO,OOO. The primary object of the new issue was
to pay for new freehold premises, which are going up
in George-street, near the Post Office, and should be
finished late in 1914. A secondary object was, no
doubt, to provide ways and means of mopping up
the profits without making the rate of dividend too
conspicuously bright. The success of the concern
has been phenomenal. Consider these figures :
Aug., 1908. Aug., 1913.
Liabilities .. .. ..£3,655 £25,838
Assets, other than stock,
plant, etc. . . . . 58,911 146,660
Surplus assets ..£55,256 £120,822
In the meantime only £30,000 of capital has been
got in ; and it is a fair thing to assume that “stock,
plant, etc.,” are worth certainly no less now than
they were five years ago. This means that in five
years the co. has (1) paid its lavish dividend, (2)
paid for any additions made to stuck, and (3) added
£35,566 to other property—all out of profits. No
doubt the co., which deals largely in little luxuries
as well as drugs, has been particularly favored by
the boom in national extravagance; and though
poorer times may cut deeply into profits, it has put
itself into a strong position to meet any troubles that
may come along.
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney), which started in May, 1911, with a deficit
of £7064, represented by goodwill £5OOO and pre-
liminary expenses £2064: —
Bonus to De-
May, Profit. Dividends. Customers, ficit.
1911 £7064
Sept., Pref. Ord.
1912 .. £1375 6p.c., 5 p.c.= £726 £99 6514
1913 .. 1549 6 „ 5 „ „ 995 Nil 5960
Shares in this co. were put on the market in the
middle of 1911. The object was to buy and extend
the fertilizer business of A. H. Hasell, who, besides
getting 5000 shares, was provided with (1) a billet
as managing director at a salary of not less than
£5OO p.a. for 15 years, and (2) a contract making
his firm the co.’s managing agent for the sale and
distribution of its goods on a commission of 7s. .6d.
per ton for superphosphates and 5 p.c. for most other
products. The idea was to raise £50,000, of which
it was proposed to put £30,000 into a factory. The
terms were evidently not reckoned good enough, so
that altogether only £15,343 has been got from the
public at the altogether excessive cost of £2064.
But, though the plans had thus to be entirely altered,
and the profits are microscopic compared with those
figured in the prospectus, the 5000 shares were issued
all the same to the vendor; and, though the business
of the co. must be a mere bagatelle compared with
what it was assumed to be when the prospectus was
issued, there is no indication that the terms of the
agreement with Mr. Hasell and his firm have been
varied. A profit of over £9OOO a year was men-
tioned on a capital of £50,000. The actual capital
is somewhat less than half of that: but the profit
so far is a good deal less than one-half of £9OOO.
In fact, it hasn’t averaged one-sixth of that amount.


CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtainable every-
where.*
X
All the
leading: Mines
and Workshops
In this Country use
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
Experience having proved that our Conveyor
Belts, Hoses, Packings, etc., have no
equal for Quality and Price.
Samples & Tenders Submitted.
Lists on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney.
f
A great mistake, when erecting new works or re-
arranging old ones, is often made in constructing the
building and installing machinery ere looking round
for means of transport of the raw material, half-
manufactured and finished goods. Messrs. Adolf
Bleichert and Co., of London, have issued various
catalogues and leaflets, illustrating and describing a
few of the many transport systems and plants which
they have supplied, and which show the solution of
the transport question and the advantages of em-
ploying such appliances. W. and J. Lempriere,
Melbourne and Sydney, are the Australian representa-
tives, and would be pleased to hear from those in-
terested. A specially trained engineer is retained to
consult and advise.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the-
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed)
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,.
Melbourne and Brisbane.* ,
* * * *
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire-
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal,- at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.,
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using ai
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral o*tis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the-
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
Extract from Financier, dated London, September-
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance-
Society is well recognised as an institution which,
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its-
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great:
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one-
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE spells economy from start
to finish. First cost —freight, labor, upkeep—all come
to less than in the case of metal pipe. Its quality
is well known in Australian mines. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head!
Office).*
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that I have now used the
Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 1081 per man. During the whole time I
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—R. HORNSBY &
SONS, Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.*
* * " * *
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—Good mining
properties. Industrials. Patents. Properties in-
spected and business propositions investigated in any
part of Commonwealth and abroad. Reply with par-
ticulars to Private Box No. 49, General Post Office,
Melbourne.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harringtons Ltd. of 386 George
Street, Sydney, who buy large or small quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process workers’ residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Assays are executed for jewellers within two or three
hours, and prospectors and others are assured of
immediate attention. All kinds of analytical and
metallurgical work can be executed promptly and
advice given on all branches of industrial chemistry
and metallurgy. The whole of the work is directed
by a qualified analyst and metallurgist from Johnson
and Sons, London, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank
of England, H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc.,
and who are acting as London agents for Harring-
tons Ltd. for the treatment of large parcels of
sweeps, residues, ores, etc. Direct shipment of such
lots can be arranged.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Water-Supply engineers will be, interested to learn
that further evidence proving the durability of W. I.
and Steel Pipes when coated by the Asphaltum pro-
cess, has just been obtained by the engineers of the-
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. Certain,,
alterations were made to the main which supplies the*
City of South Melbourne with water, and consequently
some pipes were taken up. These pipes were made in the •
year 1889, and were coated with Asphaltum composi-
tion in the usual way, and they were laid in ground'
that was particularly unfavorable, to the preservation,
of any unprotected metal, being originally swampy
land, containing much vegetable matter, and filled 1
with tidal dredgings. On examination, these 24-year-
old pipes were found to be in an excellent state of'
preservation, and the Board’s engineers were so satis-
fied with their condition that they decided to use
them again. They were, therefore, removed to the
works of Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Lim-
ited, at Footscray, Victoria, where these 24-year-old
pipes were cleaned, retested, and recoated with
Asphaltum composition in a new and improved pro-
cess. They are now being relaid in a position where
they will have to withstand a working pressure of
1351 b. to the square inch. That the Asphaltum pro-
cess for coating pipes is rust-proof and thoroughly
efficacious is proved by the foregoing.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the 11.M.5. New Zea-
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Under the circumstances shareholders are entitled to
think the business hasn’t turned out very well. On the
face of it, it looks as if it has turned out rather better
for the vendor, managing director and managing agent
than for anybody else. No works of any consequence
have, of course, been erected. There appears to be
a small drying plant and probably something else
of that sort at Newcastle; but the whole box and
dice of plant stands in the books at only £669. The
capital put up and a bit besides is all absorbed by
stock ( £6064) and book debts (£10,133) —the latter
a shockingly large amount for a co. of this size.
Apparently it means that, in order to get busi-
ness, this co. is giving many of its cocky-customers
credit till the harvest cheque comes in in January
or February. That’s all right when cocky has a
harvest, though even then it is expensive; but if a
season should fail, the co. is liable to be in trouble.
On the other side, the co. owes £3132.
Generally, the concern is a disappointment. A co-
operative co. to handle super, and wheat-sacks, in
particular, was wanted badly, and in any big wheat-
growing district —Riverina, for instance —there is
business enough to make a very imposing concern.
But there is no reason in the world why the co-
operating farmers should give anybody 5000 shares—
nearly one-fourth of the lot —for their own custom.
Nor is there any reason why they should pay a man-
aging director £5OO a year plus 7s. 6d. per ton
(say 7$ p.c.) for getting their own orders and looking
to the distribution. (The sub-agents no doubt get
a commission, too.) In the absence of a true co-
operative concern, or half-a-dozen co-operative con-
cerns, this one promised to have considerable value
as a manufacturer, and it, still has some value as a
competitor which stands between the farmer and the
big fertilizer manufacturers, who begin to look too
much, like a combine to make things quite comfort-
able for the man on the land. But it is not the ideal
thing by any means.
Robert Harper & Co., hitherto a private
concern registered in Victoria, is turning itself into
a public co. with a capital of £500,000 in £1
shares, of which approximately 133,000 will be held
in reserve. The public has subscribed privately for
120,000 7 p.c. cumulative pref. shares; the pre-
sent proprietors take about 247,000 ordinaries. The
exact terms and figures are, however, not yet avail-
able. Robert Harper, the head of the old firm (which
has been in existence for nearly 50 years, and has
flourished greatly since Federation brought Protec-
tion and encouraged inter-State trade), will continue
to be chairman of directors; and the management,
generally, will not be affected—at any rate, for the
present. The co., which manufactures starch, oat-
meal, etc., and prepares rice, spices, coffee and such
goods for market, carries on a wholesale business
throughout the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Though old-established Australian cos.,
most of them of high standing, called for £3,000,000
of new capital during the past year, and though this
meant a serious cut into the money available for
investment through the Stock Exchanges, the price
of stocks was, on the whole, remarkably well main-
tained. Taking them in classes the only ones that
shrank were industrials and steamships, and there
were exceptions even in industrials and steamships.
Most of the industrial cos. were floated during the
period of plentiful money from two to five years ago.
At that time profits were inflated because the con-
cerns were getting the advantage of higher prices
without paying the higher wages that have since
naturally followed. On the basis of those inflated
profits absurd prices were paid for the goodwill of
the businesses, and in most instances absurdly high
dividends were paid to start with. Then the higher
wages came along, and the fat was dn the fire.
Steamship shares have shrunk also ; on account of
higher costs and lower dividends, coupled in some
cases with an excessive capitalisation of profits.
There have been, in general, altogether too many
bonus issues of shares during the last few years—
too much piling-up of capital and too much whittling-
down of the reserves that should have been preserved
to see the cos. through times of stress,
* * * *
The Australian mining cos.’ Christmas
boxes to their shareholders amounted to about
£710,000, as against £825,000 ip 1912. The shrink-
age—-and a good deal more- —was. due to the reduc-
tion in Broken Hill dividends, the result of the
poorer zinc and lead markets of the last few months.
With a good lead market in its favor,
Broken Hill has been trying hard to beat previous
records. In 1912 its mines hauled 1,639,659 tons.
How much metal was got from crude ore and mill
residues cannot be told, because so much of the
smelting is done on the other side of the earth.
A large proportion of the ore raised in 1912 assayed
over 14 p.c., and from that grade the concentrators
at the South, the Central and the North mines
recover 19.5 units, or 75 p.c. of the original lead
contents. Now, assuming that 9.5 units is a fairly
safe estimate from the furnace, the lead saved from
crude ore in 1912 totalled 155,767 tons. In 1913
the export of lead and zinc concentrates has been
very heavy, Four months to November 30 gave
118,339 tons of lead concentrates and ;145,521 tons
zincs. Lead concentrates vary from 501 p.c. lead to
70 p.c. ; zino concentrates from 42 jp.c, zinc to
49 p.o. Dividends have been something to remember ;
even with the B. H. Prop, going very slow, five con-
cerns have shelled out more than £l,ooflj,ooo between
them, the South supplying no less than £300,000.
Stanthorpe Tin, Ltd., a Sydney! co. work-
ing a sluicing claim just across the Queensland
border, has got its second plant at work, and almost
simultaneously issues its first annual report. Sluicing
did not start till April, and even then there was the
usual water trouble; nevertheless to the end of
September the working account shows, £1127 of
profit, of which £722 is absorbed by preliminary
and administrative exes., leaving £405 as a nest-egg.
The second plant having -been bought at what is
considered much under its value, nothing is written
off for wear and tear of No. 1. The ground so far
treated has averaged a shade over lib. tin to the
yard; but until the co. got its improved water-
supply it had to tackle ground „ which is reckoned
much below the average. The oo.’s territory is large,
and, given even a fair market for the metal, pros-
pects are pleasant. Capital is £11,360 in shares of
£lO all now fully paid; and the cash position is
comfortable —liquid assets exceeded liabilities by
£849 on September 30, and the; best returns yet
got have been reported since that date.
Significant item from Ardlethan
(N.S.W.), dated December 22: “All the principal
mines have shut down for the holidays, and will not
open till January 5 or 7.” When a concern closes
down for three weeks or so, it is pretty safe to say
that it finds closing down more profitable than
remaining open.
* * * *
Grafton Copper (N.S.W.) will spend lots
of money if it carries out its hydro-electric power
and concentrating scheme. Shaft sinking below the
lowest “A” tunnel should, of course, be done first
to make sure that there is enough ore in sight to
keep the mill supplied for a few years. The direc-
tors should remember what befell the New Hillgrove
Prop. (N.S.W.), which spent a fortune on its mill
and power scheme before making certain of its ore
reserves. For the past eight years the Grafton has
been producing 68 p.c. copper matte, and in that
time has spent some £500,000 in connection with
the mine. All the time it has been smelting with
reverberatory furnaces and wood fuel, and recently it
built a tramline to bring -wood in at a lower cost.
There have been times when it has been able to raise
and treat from 800 to 1000 tons per month. But this
was only when the weather, the furnaces, the mine
and the firewood supply were behaving their best.
* * * *
Most of the New England (N.S.W.) tin
sluicing cos., which were beginning to feel the pinch
of drought, have had good rains. Bourke’s Hill,
among others, reports that its dams are full; and,
though it is in only average ground, everything
points to a good half-year, _ in spite of the nasty
tricks the tin market is playing.
Block 14 Torrington (N.S.W.) has been
crushing ore containing less than § p.c. wolfram;
360 tons of this low-grade stuff were milled in a
week for 37cwt. of concentrates, assaying 68.32 p.c.
wolfram and 2.56 p.c. of bismuth. It requires nearly
10 tons of ore to produce lewt. of concentrates. A
rich find of bismuth, molybdenite or other high-priced
metal is required to pull the eo. through. There are
127,000 ordinary and 23,000 pref. shares.
* * * »
Principal Westralian results for Novem-
ber :—-
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 16,761 47,209 26,300 56/4
Ivanhoe . . . . 20,033 37,649 14,009 37/7
Kalgurli . . . . 10,780 21,164 9,246 39/3
Boulder Perseverance 20,475 20,437 1,628 19/11
Lake View and Star 18,318 21,001 3,572 22/11
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,500 21,018 5,345 31/1
Yuanmi '. . . . 10,030 16,949 4,109 33/9
Oroya Links.. .. 12,400 14,004 411* 22/7
Bullfinch Prop. .. 5,966 14,219 8,271 47/8
Golden Horseshoe 26,853 32,858 503 24/5
Associated Northern 6,507 7,671 1,089 23/7
Associated Kalgoorlie
Lease . . . . 3,950 4,182 1,188
South Kalgurli . . 9,535 9,889 681 20/9
Mountain Queen . . 4,095 4,745 1,750 23/2
Queen of the Hills 3,862 5,998 2,218 31/-
Corinthian North . . 2,877 5,186
Menzies Consolidated 2.161 5,478 2,076 50/8
Sand Queen . . 1,528 5,790 2,500 75/9
Ida H 1,326 4,951 1,070 74/8
Golden Butterfly .. 1,420 1,518 221 21/4
Fenian . . . . 2,955 8,596 3,988 58/2
Golden Ridge .. 2,784 3,860 500 t 27/9
Associated.. .. 10,837 13,948 2,170 25/9
Edna May.. .. 1,453 5,880 4,241 81/-
Mararoa . . . . 2,670 4,955 1,545 37/1
Ingliston Extended 675 1,657 355 49/1
Kyarra . . . . 920 1,978 710 20/-
Commodore. . . . 750 1,633 469 43/6
Lake View Consols 7,8541 1,303 194 3/4
Boulder No. 1 .. 1,7461 1,730 1,030 20/-
Marvel Loch .. 525 1,504§ 360 40/-
Loss.
Great Fingall . . 5,876 9,717 906 33/-
Burbanks Main Lode 1,751 3,416 46211 39/-
*Costs included £2458 expended on plant. tAn
extra £3OOO was taken from the bullion reserve and
added to the month’s surplus. }old tailings, in-
cludes £464 revenue from public crushings and
sales. 11 Development absorbed £1252. Mountain
Queen, Corinthian North and Associated (Kalgoorlie
Lease) obtained some of the month’s revenue from
accumulated residues.
Gold divs. totalling £780,262 were distri-
buted by Westralian cos. during the 11 months
ended November 30. The aggregate for the year
will be about £920,000, or roughly £lOO,OOO more
than in 1912.
* * * *
Two rich Christmas cakes were brought
into Kanowna (W.A.) from Mulgabbie. One of
48840 z. was the product of three tons of stone, and
the "other, weighing 3110 z., came from two tons of
rock. Mulgabbie is 60-odd miles from Kanowna
and generally comes to light with something sensa-
tional about this time of the year.
Ravenstliorpe smelters, which originally
cost £150,000, have been taken on lease for seven
years by the Westralian Government. For some time
past local leaseholders have been shipping ore to
Kembla (N.S.W.) at a cost of £6 per ton. This
meant that nothing less than -10 p.c. stuff could be
profitably handled. Local smelting is not expected
to cost more than £3 per ton, but whether the
return will be as good as was got at Kembla is
another matter. Still there is a big margin between
the two sets of charges to work on. r
Mountain Queen (W.A.) has abandoned
its option on the Great Victoria, and, it is said,
hopes to fix up a much better deal later on. The
turned-down show would suit the Queen admirably,
at about half the price the vendors are now asking.
Broncho-Horseshoe (W.A.) is not attrac-
tive. The lode is extensive enough, but the grade
is too low. Conditions are similar to those at the
Great Victoria, with just this difference—values are
poorer and they are low enough in that show.
Some of the Broncho stuff was recently treated for a
return of 16s. per ton, but the ore in sight is
worth less than that. To incur a big capital ex-
penditure in the erection of plant to treat material
of this grade, in a locality like the one in which the
Broncho is situated, would at present be foolhardy.
There may still be gold at Paynes’ Find
(W.A.), but apparently Adelaide is not keen on the
chance. Sweet William Consolidated has some rich
ore showing in hard ground and wants money to get
rock drills to dig it out. All efforts to raise the
wind, however, have so far proved unavailing.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) is having a hard
battle. In November a small surplus was shown on
the treatment of 1420 tons worth a shade under
205,, which is much below what the reserves were
alleged to average. That’s the worst of Adelaide-
and Melbourne-managed shows in the West. Glow-
ing reports are issued at time of flotation, one or
two attractive trial crushings are put through the
handiest mill, more gilded reports are published,
and the local rag bangs the boomsters’ drum. Then
the battery on the mine starts, and in nine cases
out of 10 disappointment and more often than not
disaster follows.
•* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) announces the dis-
covery of a jSoz. quartz body in the Albert shaft
section of its delusive Kalgoorlie lease. Something
like £50,000 has been taken o,ut of this property
in the last 15 years, but all except a little paid
over to tributors has gone back into the property.
Shareholders got nothing except notices. to find fresh
capital.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) is still hopeful of
getting hold of a new property. Two are under
consideration, but the question whether either of
them is worth spending any money on had not been
decided at last advices.
* * * *
Another reassuring statement has been
issued in London by the Bullfinch directors. Now
the full 20 head of stamps are running, the grade
is to be reduced to the average of the reserves,
whatever that is, and there is said to be nothing
in the appearance of the mine to warrant the
“adverse rumors” in circulation. Yet the market
valuation has shrunk over £150,000 in the last
couple of months. Who is selling?
* * * *
Westralia Waihi (W.A.) has been laid to
rest. The liquidators’ statement submitted to a
graveside gathering of shareholders showed that the
deceased’s effects had been sold for £1095, and that
a first and final div. of 3 9-16 d. per share had been
paid. No provision was made for a tombstone.
* * * *
Something more from Westons (W.A.)
Edna May: 150 ft. level has been extended 60-odd
feet. Reef averages 13ft., for that distance and is
officially stated to be worth from 30dwt. to 50dwt. The
battery is spelling 10 days during the holidays. A
boring plant has been erected on the optioned Duff’s
lease a few feet north of the Edna May boundary. It
is proposed to put down a vertical hole to 1000 ft.
or thereabouts, and, if this isn’t satisfactory, to
drill an inclined hole to intersect the reef —if it is
there —at a depth of between 600 ft. and 700 ft. In
view of the peculiar nature of the formation, it seems
a very hazardous policy to spend money in this
way. Diamond-drill results have not, as a rule,
been borne out by actual development in the West.
Edna Mav Central: No. 3 rise has been stripped for
60ft. above the 76ft. level, and when this work is
complete to the surface, sinking to 150 ft. is to be
commenced. A number of borings taken from the
hanging wall of the reef in the bottom of No. 1
winze from 76ft. level contained values up to an
ounce. The drive at 76ft. has been advanced 460 ft.
on the footwall side of the reef, and it is apparent
that there are several feet of stone of improved grade
in the hanging wall. On present showing the mine
is much over valued by the market, but it has possi-
bilities which are no doubt responsible for the pre-
sent quotations.
Charters Towers produced £280,527 in 11
months. A Is. per share from Mills United ( £15,0001
made the dividends for 11 months £39,134. Calls
took £35,255. Twenty of the best mines on the
field produced £224,726 from 71,502 tons of stone,
an average of £3 and a bit per ton. During 11 months
Brilliant Extended crushed 23,960 tons for £54,030.
Brilliant Deeps 7856 tons for £33,388, Freehold
9489 tons for £25,057, Mills United 8873 tons for
£21,236, Victory 1665 tons for £15,364, Papuan
1793 tons for £12,408, Brilliant Stockholm 3795
tons for £11,824, New Queen Cross 1321 tons for
£9192, Brilliant Central 1143 tons for £5480
and Brilliant P.C. 1844 tons for £5480.
Charters Towers shows an unexplored
corner occasionally. Redmond’s Brilliant Freehold
and Day Dawn is an instance. It is in the course of
the Day Dawn, and, as it happens, right in the heart
of a profitable zone of country. It lay unexplored
simply because the area was too small to stand the
expense of a shaft some 1500 ft. deep. Fortunately
for Redmond’s party, the depletion of profitable
stone in the East Mexican mine provided an oppor-
tunity to make terms to explore Redmond’s block
from the Mexican’s No. 6 level. A crosscut was
driven into the hanging wall and sinking started
from the end on the course of the reef. A few inches
of good stone were met with at 70ft., which opened
out in the sink to 4ft. of splendid stone. This block
of ground is now providing its owners with some
highly profitable crushings.
* * * *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) has decided to exercise
its option on the Laloki mine, in Papua. Basic ore
in sight above the 140 ft. level is estimated at
145,000 tons averaging 4 p.c. copper and 2Jdwt.
gold; and though that isn’t enough to lift Fitzroy
right out of the soup, it will be enough to give the
distressful co. a hold on the side of the tureen.
* * * *•
As The Bulletin expected, the Victoria
River Shale and Oil Co. will not put the salvage
from the wreck of its Northern Territory oil expedi-
tion into the Gippsland silver shows over which it
secured an option—anyway, not at the price. The
properties have been known for years, and have been
sniffed at a dozen times and passed by. Had a more
thorough search for oil been made in the Territory,
shareholders would have had far less cause to com-
plain than they have at present. From first to last
very poor use has been made of their money.
Mount Bischoff, during its long life of 40
.years? has paid 441 dividends totalling £2,434,500
( £203 7s. 6d. per share). In recent years from
17,000 to 20,000 tons of low-grade porphyry-gossan
and alluvial dirt have been milled every month for
an average of from 10 to 111 b. of oxide containing
approximately 71b. of pure tin. In other words, it
required 320 tons of ore to produce a ton of pure
metal, without reckoning smelting losses. The
latest report shows working costs (which have been
steadily rising) to be 4s. 11.78 d. per ton of dirt.
Now if it costs ss. to produce 71b. it costs £BO to
produce a ton. That may seem a low figure, consider-
ing that the market has varied from £220 to £l7O
during the last 2 } years. But Bischoff despatches only
100 tons of concentrates per month, and allowing
for smelting loss, an extraction of 60 tons of pure
tin is about all that can be expected. And the profit
per ton of pure tin has to be £lOO to make the
10s. dividend ( £6000) a sure thing. If, then, the
price sticks at £l7O, and the mill cost of producing
71b. of metal sticks at 55., dividends will have to be
cut. Apart from the mine there is at times a profit
made by smelting customs ore, but competition in
that line of business is very keen.
“R. 8.” : In all this N. S. Wales political
mud-throwing nothing is heard of the worst job of the
last four years—job in result if not in intention. The
existing stock saleyards at Flemington are worth
£200,000 (about), and the departmental foolishness
of the Public Works is almost ready to convert the
money into firewood and old spalls by abandonment.
Sydney’s meat supply is carried to Flemington in
trupks, and is rested for a few hours or a day or two
to recover the depreciation of the long and often
delayed journey. One firm has a swimming basin
for cattle and good resting yards and shade, with this
primary result: washed bullocks look better than
the animals that don’t bathe and brush-up before
going on the stage in front of an audience of buyers
and auctioneers. The secondary result is that the
swimming basin and the care that goes with it
bring a lot more cattle to that particular firm’s
books, which is just the thing the partieular firm
was after. Following on the sale of the cattle, de-
preciation begins again with the long, dusty drive
through lighted streets to Glebe Island—a journey
that maddens cattle with fear just when they are
about to forget the fright of the trucks. Residents
of all the suburbs interested objected so strongly
that new abattoirs are building—not by the exist-
ing yards, but about a mile away to the north.
This site was fixed by the Government of four years
ago, and the cost is in the neighborhood of £360,000.
But the cattle will still have to be driven from the
saleyards, and in an attempt to cut down the driving
by 400 yards, new yards are being erected at a cost
equal to that of the old yards, which will thus be
abandoned as scrap. The new yards are to be on the
northern slope of the same hill as the old; but
whereas the old yards are on a slope so gentle as to
be practically level, the new are on steeply graded
and broken country; and in this the increased cost
of railway connection is only one consideration.
Level connection with the main line already exists
on the old site, and will be very costly to secure on
the new.
The trouble seems to be that the energetic
firm before-mentioned has secured most of the land
around the old yards, and with it perhaps the best
facilities for resting, feeding, watering. and swim-
ming stock; but if that firm’s ownership is against
public convenience, there are ways of resumption
without ‘the abandonment of £200,000 and a first-
class site for a fourth-rate location. There was
never a worse place for the slaughtering of stock
than Homebush. It is one of the hottest places in
the continent; slaughtering will have to be done
at night, and the cold storage necessary will be
colossal. The right place for new saleyards and
abattoirs is around Botany Bay, where the lower
temperatures would make a dividend. Glebe Island
is better than the new site, although the objection
to the driving puts it out of court. The original
scheme was superlatively wrong; but, despite the
alterations of the Meat Industry and Abattoirs Board,
which has straighened things out considerably, the
location is permanently bad. The original scheme
was based on observation of abattoirs at Glasgow
and in Germany, with little reference to Australian
conditions, and practically no reference at all to the
peculiar conditions of the incandescent gravel-country
around Flemington. The Meat Industry' and Abat-
toirs Board bettered the scheme by inspecting the fine
municipal abattoirs of Adelaide (in conditions approxi-
mating to those of Flemington) immediately after its
appointment, which was a highly intelligent pro-
ceeding ; but that won’t alter the fact that the site
is almost the worst in Australia. And on top of
that there is the shocking waste involved in the
erection of new saleyards on a bad site to replace
the old on a good site, merely to save 400 yards
of droving.


TERRIBLE HEADACHES.
“I am a bootmaker,” writes Mr. Frederick Miller,
Great King Street, North Dunedin, N.Z., “and for
many years suffered from terrible headaches and
irregularity of the bowels, due to my sedentary life.
After taking one box of Chamberlain’s Tablets I
was greatly benefited, and they soon effected my
cure. Upon the slightest symptoms of constipation
I take two or three tablets, which always, set me
right.”*
c'oidili'rclj>««' < “ l4
HEERING
ERRY
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBJB.
FARMER’S
Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies
In FARMER’S HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
for Ladies a speciality is made of Fringes and
Transformations for Motoring.
Every Transformation is made on the
premises by an accomplished artist.
We specialise in Re-making, Renovating
and Altering Artificial Hair for our Patrons.
Our experts can Re-dress and Wave Transfor-
mations, Fringes, Puffs, etc., with a skill and
promptitude which will commend their work
to our customers.
Charges for Hairdressing are as follows: —
Plain
With Marcel Waving
Marcel Waving ....
Cutting
Singeing .
Shampooing
2/6
4/6
2/6
1/-
1 /-
2/6
Hairdressing appointments for Social Func-
tions may be made by ’phone or letter.
’Phone, City 72 (16 lines).
FARMERS, SYDNEY
Pitt, Market & George Streets.
BUCHANAN’S
BlacK White.
&
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 29, 1913.
My Dear Arini, —
Races at Randwick on Boxing Day were
attended by a huge crowd of holiday folk
and a cool breeze that blew our untidiness —
a blizzard of bits of paper —back in our
faces. Local Society having for the most
part bounded out of town, only an occasional
survival paced the lawn. One of the tall
-ucQuade girls looked as cool as a cucumber
in some indeterminate shade of biscuit. Mrs.
Tom Dixson in a lacy white gown was
another pleasing summer-day effect. The
Bloomfields, a Dangar or two, a stray Lamb
and a sample of the Knox family graciously
mingled with the herd. Commissioner George
Reid, faithful to the belltopper of the Cold
Land, ambled peacefully towards the mem-
bers’ stand. Governor Strickland, in the
bowler hat and sac suit of an off-the-chain
interlude, was sandwiched between the ever-
cheery General Finn and a tall, well-set-up,
straw-hatted stranger—possibly the new
naval A.D.C. Robins. If so. lie looks as if
he’d had all the nonsense knocked out of
him by blue discipline., And he smiled as
the Help department has not smiled of late.
One of the favorite frenzies of the moment
—the lace-brimmed black hat —was in full
force at the Races. It throws a mottled
reflection on the face, rather fascinating if
the face is young and the complexion won’t
wear off; but it is destructive to more elderly
charms. The crown of black velvet is hot
and stuffy for mid-summer, and might be
put to much better use in the depth of winter
as a head-warmer. Still, it’s rather pic-
turesque, and, even if it doesn’t keep off the
sun, parasols are permitted, though not en-
couraged. this year.
The “Come Over Here” girls have their
heads bagged in tulle with striking effect.
Some of this flimsy stuff stands up all round
their craniums like the feathers of a Red
Indian in a Fenimore Cooper story. The
rest of it is tossed together in bows rather
smaller than windmill sails. The girls them-
selves are worth looking at, though the
plank-walking has its drawbacks. One of
the most gorgeous show ladies who thundered
with majestic mien over the stallholders’
heads showed large holes in her stockings—
holes which were not connected with the
open-work pattern. Our own Australian
girls, the two pale green mermaids in the
tank scene, are the pick of the bunch as to
looks, and the bunch is a handsome assort-
ment.
Three Americans are included in the bevy
of imported show girls. The 10 importa-
tions cost the firm £6OO in fares. As there
seems to be no special reason for shipping
nice-looking young women to cities that are
chock-full of beauties, the explanation ap-
parently hangs on dress-hooks. The British
and American chorus lady is supposed to be
able to wear her clothes with a haughty air
to which the local chorus lady cannot aspire.
Also, our girls don’t like the plank prome-
nade, which has nothing but its novelty to
commend it. They feel like tottering over
on to the nicely-greased locks of their male
admirers. To avert this tragedy the man-
agement has thoughtfully put an imported
duchess in front of every Australian, to lead
the way in the glory of the dress parade.
Mrs. Harry Rickards, looking plumper
than of old, was in a stage box at “Come
Over Here” with Mrs. Hugh Mclntosh the
other evening. Mrs. Hugh Ward and her
two young sons were in the managerial
pen. The most lasting impression of the
Revue is the agility of Ivy Schilling and
Fred Leslie in the spider’s-web turn. Fred
Leslie, the Spider, faithfully understudies
one of those nasty, creepy things that ogle
young flies in the corners of vine-draped
verandahs. Ivy is a golden-winged moth,
with a bounce like an indiarubber ball in
the soles of her feet. Eventually she leaps up
the web and becomes Mrs. Spider, though
the engagement is not announced by Jack
Cannot from the wing.
Any Sydney citizen who yawned often at
the first long “Come Over Here” perform-
ance, can reflect with gratitude that he is
not forced by tradition to spend a first-night
at a Drury Lane Christmas extravaganza.
That show is liable to start at 7 p.m., and
the lights don’t flicker out till 2 a.m. I sup-
pose the management is secreted in various
look-out stations to jot down the jokes that
catch a laugh. Anyway, the blue pencil
gradually exorcises those that are not recog-
nised for what they are intended to be, and
after a week or so the production shrinks to
normal.
In the Theatre Royal version of Bernard
Shaw’s “Man and Superman,” Ann White-
field (Irene Browne) owns a handsome mop
of flaming red hair. As Shaw intends her
to marry John Tanner (just now he is Julius
Knight), the gorgeous tresses of Irene
Browne fit the part—if there is anything in
the tradition about “ginger for pluck.”
Tanner is a torrent of conversation. In the
ordinary suburban villa a husband of this
kind would be an unmitigated bore. The
eggs would be as hard as marbles, and the
breakfast bacon a cinder, before Shaw’s
egotist had closed his mouth long enough to
shave himself. The smart upside-down por-
tions of Tanner’s Mississippi of talk draws
wan smiles from the few fragments of local
Society left over from the exodus to surf
and hilltops. But one or two contingents
which crept into the d.c. and stalls at the
beginning of the second act the other even-
ing fed themselves furtively on sweets, and
crackled so much paper in the doing of it
that I fancy they lost the spice of the last
scene. After Tanner has finally consented
to become engaged to Ann, thereby making
an alarming sacrifice, he protests in the usual
Shavian manner that he will burn any wed-
ding presents, get married in a registrar’s
office, and allow no bridesmaids, etc. “The
Brute!” interjects an indignant mother. But
the red-haired girl has the last word —“Go
—on —talking !”
First night at “Aladdin,” the Adelplii
panto., was chiefly notable for the well-filled
stalls and the waggon-loads of flowers that
were handed over the footlights. Carrie
Moore’s chief trophy was a gorgeous floral
gingham—the kind that you’d have to take
home in a cab if it began to rain. Mabel
Batchelor was knee-deep in blooms, and
Grace Palotta got away with the pickings of
a florist’s shop.
The Butt-Rumford pair made their last
farewell bow in this city to a gigantic
Christmas Night audience. This was posi-
tively their final appearance, as their pas-
sage-money to the other side of the globe
is paid, otherwise we’d expect a return fare-
well season. Pianist Murdoch, by the way,
shows recent signs of being spoilt by young
lady admirers. His antics at the piano are
quite a new departure from the quiet
manner that earned him so much praise
during his earlier appearances. Now the
Murdoch arms wave like semaphores, and
he is getting close to the Mark Hambourg
writhe all over the piano stool. The young
Australian’s technique is too good to be
worried with such trimmings. When he
grows whiskers I suppose he’ll steady down
again to merely play the piano, instead of
flinging his arms around it.
G. L. Goodman, who has been hovering
between Her Majesty’s and the Royal
Theatre, has decided to remain at the latter
address. Pie finds the years make hard work
of the task of seeing the Revue audienees
seated, and that is only a side-line to busi-
ness management. When run to his den,
up a corkscrew staircase at the Royal, the
genial “Goody” threatened to write a book
of reminiscences —when he is not too busy.
He has been in front of the house for 33 years,
starting as treasurer and business manager
at the Royal, under the regime of Arthur
Garner. “From 1880 till 1892,” muses the
veteran, “I was at the Royal, and only left
it when it was burnt down during the Ber-
nard Beere season. In those days there used
to be a cottage, called the Captain Cook
Lodge, just opposite the old Royal. It was
built by a sailor and fitted up with bunks.
We rented it, so that if any of the Firm
came over from Melbourne they could put
up there. One very wet night I decided to
camp there, but was knocked up by J. L.
Toole. He insisted on my getting up and
dressing to go out to his hotel and play
threepenny nap with him. At daylight I had
won threepence as the result of the night’s
games. Later. I found that this was the
anniversary of the death of the comedian’s
wife and daughter. He couldn’t sleep, and
roused me up to keep him company.”
Of all the stars of greater and lesser mag-
nitude who’ve twinkled on his horizon, G. L.
Goodman puts Sara Bernhardt first —by half
a universe. He chuckles still over a famous
Sunday picnic, at which he was chaperon in
place of one of the Firm who was unavoid-
ably absent. “Mr. Harry Cox, now dead,
lent his launch to take us over the water at
Woy Way. Gunsler, the then well-known
Sydney caterer (he’s also crossed by the Styx
ferry since), was in charge of the supplies.
After we got away there was frantic excite-
ment when it was discovered that the poultry
hamper had been left behind. However, I
knew the hotelkeeper at Brooklyn, and sent
him a wire to meet us at the station with
the best he’d got. That saved us —he handed
through the carriage windows enough edibles
to feed the whole company.” After starting in
the launch, the Frenchmen in the co., who,
like Sara, were armed with rifles, were
about to slaughter an armada of tame ducks,
the property of the launch-owner, who was
aboard, when Goodman stayed the deadly
fusillade.
“Bernhardt’s energy was enormous. At
that picnic she tramped seven or eight miles
over rough country in search of sport. When
we got back to town, she called a rehearsal
for ten o’clock that night, and kept at it till
1 a.m. Nearly all Monday she rehearsed
again, and that evening played ‘Adrienne
Lecouvreur’ as fresh as new paint. Talk
of energy ! Of all the stars I’ve come across
in 38 years I’ve never met Madame Sara’s
equal!”
On December 24 a mile or two of ribbon
streamers held the Koenigin Luise to the
wharf till her engines began to snort. The
Ernest Wunderlichs had a big following to
see them off. The Fordham triplet from
Turramurra —papa, mamma and baby—were
banked in flowers, and the A. B. Lassetters
waved farewell to a stack of friends before
the multi-colored silk strands snapped
asunder.
After a trip abroad that sandwiched busi-
ness with a pleasure-gallop through foreign
scenery, Mr. Stewart Dawson is coming
home in the Orvieto. High Court Justice
Samuel Griffith and his plump lady were
aboard the same boat when it first touched
Australian shores.
The George Binnie family, or some of it, is
booked for flight in February. They’re the
Quirindi squatting folk whose homestead
takes the mark on their wool clio (4 D con-
joined). This nomenclature is one of the
most frequently-distorted efforts that work
their way. through the G.P.O. —bar fuzzy-
wuzzy native names.
Editor Heney, of the S. M. llebald, and
his wife are off to whip the Upper Snowy
for fighting trout. They will join the Critch-
ley Parker waders in their rural camp. The
H. L. Austins, of Wanganella—their little
35,000-acre plot is in the Riverina —are going
to petrol to the lofty address early in Janu-
ary.
Marie Narelle Currie, now mostly settled
in N’York, sent a postcard picture of her
nice appearance the other day. She looks
as if the world went very well with her, and
appears to have left the troubled years be-
hind her. Daughters Kathleen and Rita are
coming back to N.S.W. in 1914.
Mrs. Harry Morris, widow of the late
Major Morris, of the more-or-less Permanent
Artillery, passed through from Newcastle in
the height of the brown-paper parcel uproar
last week. She took her two tall youngsters
to Leura for the Santa Claus season.
H. N. Southwell is due to return to Syd-
ney on January 5 or 6. He says he’s much
better.
Sweet singer Mary Conly had to mop her
brow in the Christmas Day edition of “Mes-
siah” at the Town Hall ; 95 degrees it was
in the shade. When the weather cools down,
early in March, she is going to tour N.S.W.
and Queensland with her own concert co.
The Libby Horderns, just back from
Honolulu, gave a theatre party at the “Come
Over Here” show on Christmas Eve. And
the Spencer Bruntons are running down to
town for New Year’s Day to head another at
Her Majesty’s.
Major-General Godley, who is said to have
shaken up the Dominion’s anti-drill section
till it throws out its chest with the best, is
passing this way, en route for Maoriland.
He has just had a trip to Bull’s Island, and
absorbed as much Autumn Manoeuvres, in-
cluding a stampede of horses, as he could
digest in a hurry. He flings his kit off the
Orvieto and gets back to work forthwith.
The Sunlight Soap Lever family is hover-
ing hereabouts. Knight William of that ilk,
chairman of Lever Bros. Ltd., and chairman
also of the Liverpool Tropical School of
Medicine, is expected in Sydney any day.
He has been overlooking the plantations in
the Solomons, where the firm grow their
copra. His only son —Mr. IJulme Lever —
and his wife have already unpacked their
baggage in this town. Son Ilulme, by the
way, takes his mother’s name: she was a
daughter of Crompton Hulme, of Bolton
(Eng.).
The P. S. McPhillamys’ home, Orton
Park. Bathurst, was destroyed by fire early
on Christmas morning. As usual in country
towns, “very little water was available,”
so that even if the official fire fighters had
been there they would have been tragically
helpless.
The Seamen’s Institute has been steadily
navigating its way through plum-pudding,
pickles and other heavyweight joys of the
season. At a festive dinner in its week of
gaiety, a concert, at which Solicitor Alfred
Nathan was the star singer, followed the ex-
plosion of bonbons. Mrs. Baronet Cooper,
whose table would have groaned with good
things if it hadn’t been so substantial, was
the accompanist for this event.
Anyone who has ever tried to have one
satisfactory bath a day in the Willoughby
district in mid-summer will sympathise with
its town clerk, who got a Christmas box
on the ears from the Water and Sewerage
Board. Willoughby’s municipal voice dared
to ask for more water for his thirsty suburb.
“A very impertinent letter,” says Authority,
as reported in the Daily Telegraph.
Indignant suburbs which are peopled with
puiet householders who usually bolt the
front door at 10 p.m. are anxious to know
where the police got to on December 24, 25
and 26. The old original offence, the
Christmas carol, as sung on the doorstep by
wandering minstrels at 2 a.m., was supple-
mented by bands, concertinas, portable har-
moniums and irresponsible revellers, the last-
named trying to open street lamp-posts with
door keys till the early milkman rattled
down the streets. Each suburb has a worse
wail than another. If the new Gaud Mayor
brings in a by-law for the suppression' of
perambulating concertinas from midnight to
6 a.m. he'll be mighty popular when 1914
is passing out.
An Australian in the Fog writes of ex-
Iving Manuel’s refuge at Twickenham, that
it is a big, roomy house, rather like one of
the old homes N.K.W. merchants built in the
early days of the Momma State. It is a
white-walled, shuttered domicile, with no
fancy garnish or stucco excrescences, enclosed
in flower-gemmed lawns, and fitted up with
private golf links. “Fulwell Park has been
spring-cleaned and generally done up for the
home-coming of Portugal’s ex-monarch and
his new bride. If such an apparently un-
settled pair can settle down anywhere to-
gether, this lovely nest ought to keep them
at peace with their lot. Meantime,” con-
tinues Miss Harbor City, “I understand from
the halfpenny press that the peerage is con-
cerned to know what place the lady who
calls herself Queen Augusta Victoria is going
to take at Court. Even here an ex-king isn’t
more important than an ex-duke would be-
if such strange cattle could ever browse in
Court pastures. Several British duchesses,
whose blood is blue with the mould of cen-
turies, are supposed to have said that they’ll
see Mrs. Augusta Victoria to —well, further
than Twickenham—before they’ll bob the
knee to her.”
Mrs. Gertrude Innes-Noad, hon. secretary
of the Twilight Home movement, is prepared
to joyfully accept your largest subscrip.ion.
Mrs. Alan Carroll’s £lOOO will go far, but it
won’t go all the way; and the Scrooges of
the community have every chance of paying
for a few bricks in the proposed domicile, if
they don’t all rush it at the same minute.
The Twilight Home will provide food and
comfortable shelter for the hardest person
in the world to help—the elderly, educated
woman who has brought nothing out of the
battle of life but a bundle of jagged nerves
and just nloney to grimly starve on
in a genteel fashion. The dismal move from
sordid furnished (?) rooms to dreary
“Apartments Vacant,” and thence to “Lodg-
ings to Let,” is a hideous but common finale
so far as this thin-skinned tribe are con-
cerned. Svdney lags behind European cities
in the matter of cheap, clean hostels for
women. Mrs. Noad, Ivingsclerc, Macleay-
street, will help to repair the mistake by
locking up your cash in the Twilight Home
treasury.
Wagner has been so much in the public
ear of late that it’s curious to read, in the
recent “Memories of Liszt,” by Count Geza
Zichy, of the German composer’s human side.
Wagner, like Byron, was either persecuted
or idolised. Zichy saw him at Bayreuth
during the adoration phase. “Upon my first
visit to Wahnfried I saw Wagner sitting
under a palm, surrounded by a group of
fascinating and much-bepowdered ladies, who
took upon themselves to fan the master with
marabou fans. I stood by Liszt in the salon
and bade him introduce me. He whispered.
‘We must wait until he has finished talking ’
I have seen Liszt stand in the presence of
emperors and kings,” says Zichy, “but never
so submissively as before his father-in-law.”
The Society female’s head is likely to
change its shape in the coming autumn. This
will not be due to any abnormal rush of
brains to that rather vacant allotment, but
to the climbing coiffure. The last whisper
from Paris says that top-knots in tresses are
taking the place of the flat Grecian style of
chignon. The French woman finds the bun.
even when it has an antidote in hair fluffed
over the ears, too trying for her nose, which
is usually either severely aquiline or re-
trousse. So she is combing up her own and
other people’s locks into the shape of a
penny roll on top of her head.
In the silly season Louis Baury writes
in England on the tea-forum of the 20th
century. Anything is good enough to babble
about, as Baury would know if he had to
write to you, Arini, at the heavy end of the
Christmas pudding, when news is hard to
catch. Baury, however, contrives to be in-
teresting about modern woman. For in-
stance : “Emerging from the gloom of cen-
turies, shaking from her French-heeled
colonial pumps the stifling dust of ages, she
brings modernity with her in her own per-
son. She is its inventor and its exponent,
its cause, epitome and end. It is her
spangled trinket, her gilded bauble; wher-
ever she goes she takes it with her. And so
modernity is enthroned at the tea-table,
where blessedly unburnt muffins may be
offered up to her, and lo! the tea-table has
become the Modern Forum.”
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


VICE-REGAL
sd
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
New Year Gifts.
Vanity Cases in Gold, Silver & Enamel.
Plain Gold,
*2/14/-
Plain Silver,
45/-
A dainty
and
Seasonable
Gift
for a lady.
Write for Illustrated
Catalogue.
Sent Post Free.
Selections
of the
Newest Goods
sent to the
Country
on approval*
Enamelled Silver Gilt,
£l.
Plain Silver,
12/-
Hardy Brothers Limited,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
J 3 Hunter St,, Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane,
LONDON OFFICE: 17 & 18 WEST SMITHFIELD, E.C.
35
nil
rC<
N.S.W. Bookstall Series.
1,000,000 COPIES SOLD OF THE POPULAR
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES of AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
Price, One Shilling Each ; Post Free, 1/1.
JuST published-
‘ A Curate in Bohemia,
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
Price, 1/- ; Post Free, 1/1.
As Australia’s foremost Black and White Artist, Norman Lindsay and his work are well known
and highly appreciated, but no one ever dreamt of accusing the artist of being an author. Neverthe-
less the fact remains, and when we say that the work of the author is on a par with that of the
artist, our readers will know what to expect. “The Curate in Bohemia” fairly bristles with bright
things, and the illustrations alone are well worth the money. That so much genuine humor can be
got out ot the adventures of the luckless curate speaks volumes for the ability of the artist-author
who has so suddenly leaped into the literary limelight.
THe Golden Kangaroo, By Ambrose pratt.
(Author of “ Three Years with Thunderbolt.” “ The Outlaws of Weddin Range,” etc., etc.)
Price 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
The Golden Kangaroo was reported to be one of the best paying propositions the Australian
mining world had ever known. Its directors were pillars of probity who would never dream of
issuing false reports or of salting samples. But the hero of this tale had his doubts and started in
to expose the fakers. He abducts the chairman’s daughter, with whom he goes through many
strange adventures ; he works in the mine until he unravels the plot to rig the market; brings the
designing directors to book; saves the shareholders; and marries the aforesaid daughter.
Altogether this is a fascinating story well worthy of the attention of readers who enjoy thrilling
situations described in tense, graphic language.
Theatrical Caricatures
By HARRY JULIUS. With Original
Anecdotes by CLAUDE McKAY.
A most novel and amusing publication, dealing with the theatre in Australia. Open the book
anywhere, and you are sure of a laugh. Over 200 illustrations of popular players. Pages of
amusing anecdotes.
Bindawalla, By thos. e. spencer.
The author himself reckoned this the best book he ever wrote. A striking story, full of dramatic
incidents, and the genial good humor of which the creator of “Mrs. McSweeney” was master.
Base Brands, By h. m. somer.
A splendid account of the ways of sheep-stealers and cattle-duffers in the early days, recounted
by one whose merits as a story-teller are well known. The double life of the principal character
reminds one of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
Chandler of Corralinga, e y r. j. cassidy.
The tale of an outback ne’er-do-well, w'ho, for the love of the squatter’s daughter, determines to
turn over a new leaf. He takes what he calls “a sporting chance,” and puts up a good fight. A
very unusual book, well worth reading.
Benno and Some of the Push.
By EDWARD DYSON.
The fun, though sometimes fast and furious, is good-humored, and most of the members of the
push are worthy of the prominence given them. Bright, sparkling comedy, with a laugh in every line.
ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. And All Branches and Booksellers.
iD,
'St**
3P
r i
Music—a Welcome
Summer Guest.
Summer evenings should be evenings of good fellowship and good
cheer-—of good mmic. For every “good-time” is just a little
jollier if there is music to accompany the laughter.
And when the company is small and things are a bit stow—-or when
there come dull, gloomy days of rain—what is so helpfully enliven-
ing, what lends itself so perfectly to impromptu entertainment as
music ?
Music is made available to every home by....
THE STEGK PIANOLA PIANO
Better than any other Player-piano, sold
by any other Music House, at any price.
For the Steck is a genuine Pianola Player-piano, and the Pianola
Player-piano is the supreme player-piano of the world. It is
different from other player-pianos in the flexibility of its expression
control, in its mechanical efficiency, durability —different in many
vital points, the perfecting of which has cost thirty years of
research and player-manufacturing experience.
These differences are immediately apparent when playing the
Pianola Player-piano. The flawless phrasing indicated by the
Metrostyle, the clear-singing melody brought out by the Themodist,
the variety of shading made possible by the Graduated Accompani-
ment Levers, the beautiful blending of harmony produced by the
Automatic Sustaining Pedal-above all, the wonderful responsive-
ness of these exclusive devices of the Pianola Player-piano, the ease
and simplicity with which every desired effect is produced—make
for real musical satisfaction—unless you have tried the GENUINE
Pianola Player-piano, you do not know what a player-piano can
accomplish.
The only Genuine Pianola Player-pianos are the Steinway, the Steck, the Stroud, and famous Weber. On sale only at Pianola Hall.
Low Monthly Payments if desired. Ask for Catalog R to be sent you.
fsd
THE PIANOLA COMPANY,
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE /
88 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE ;
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
357 George Street (next David Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
London, Berlin, New York, etc .
mm m r M | Cf*M*N IMMI


a
Saves you 2/- in the £
on every purchase.
Saves you 2/~ in the £
on every purchase.
FARMER’S CASH BONUS SALE
Commences Monday, sth January, 1914.
Drastic Reductions in Summer Goods and all Surplus Stocks, and Everything: less the Bonus —
10 per cent, for Cash —a few proprietary lines alone excepted.
Farmer’s Sale Announcement is a call to every woman who is interested in savins’ money on
dependable Merchandise. Remember, this .is not a sale of what are known as “job lines,”
bought for sale purposes, but
A GENUINE CLEARANCE
of Summer Goods and Surplus Stocks AT REDUCED PRICES. During this Sale the Reduc-
tions in many of our Departments are little short of PHENOMENAL.
Farmer’s Sale Catalogue.
The Sale Number of “Farmer’s Fashions and Facts” is now ready. Contains many
Unique Bargains and countless Money-saving Opportunities.
Country Residents wishing to possess a copy should send for it without delay. We send
it Post Free.
FARMER’S
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
SYDNEY.
“The Fashion in Fragrance! ”
ParfOn)
Lilas
The essence of the Lilac Bloom 1
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per=
fame in Australia, Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of all Stores throughout Australia
Sole Agent—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 29, 1913.
My Dear Yarrie
T j ii ’, , . , ,
Lady Tuller and her interesting brood of
C iS -i aie P ac k in S their possessions and
will sail out, bag and baggage, on January
\ a Ptain Kirkpatrick acts as courier,
’ S , vHT 1S to m eet Ins lady
at Colombo. Lady Fuller, being sunk deep
iu mourning for her father, has dropped any
attempt to enter into gubernatorial doings,
and is taking her last deep draughts of
Australian air at the lovely Macedon
humpy
r , 1 J \ tt i t> , ~ . ,
Genfcleman Help Burnham, taking a week
off while G.-G. Denman visits Westralia, is
stajing with the Agar Wynnes at Nerrin
Nerrm station. His fiancee, Maggie Niall,
is there also, with her widower papa as
chaperone. lhey are all murdering rabbits
an J,, t5 S ' , „ .
The Federal Government House Antique
Show and Loan Exhibition is to be on a big
scale. Lady Denman, who appears to be in
a working mood, will act as president of the
committee. The Creswell dame is treasurer,
and Mary Chomondeley secretary. . Six
rooms at Government House will be utilised,
ed each room will represent a conspicuous
furniture period. Jacobean. Dutch, Queen
Anne (Down, you visions of suburban cot-
tages !), Sheraton, Chippendale and distinc-
tive b rench are the divisions decided on. A
charge will be made for admittance and the
bctween 11 1 e Arts and Crafts and
e Repertory Theatre 1 nnd.
lhe world-encircling team of baseball
men from ’Murka will walk right into polite
Society m this city. The G.-G. Denmans
will get back from Westralia just in time
to entertain both American and Australian
teams at Government House on January 6.
Three scorching days just before Christ-
mas, following on a month’s dry weather,
set going the long-expected conflagration and
i OU * etwe ®P two an d three hundred
of Melbourne’s Bayside habitations, after
threatening the whole coastline from Aspen-
dale down to Point Nepean. These dwellers
pitch their tents, bungalows, Mary Anns
and mansions in the midst of the ti-tree,
with little provision for fire-breaks; and
once the blaze started it went right ahead,
The dead and dried scrub caught like gun-
powder. Fire-fighters set to work to cut
a break a mile ahead, but before they could
r ,, -0° between the railway
flames swept over and past
i a iac f ed down Chelsea,
tom'‘thfite
They succeeded, and when all was over they
looked away for a mile and a half to the
north, across a strip of blackened sand, with
here and there a chimney stack and a heap
of twisted iron and the remains of a few
bedsteads, all that was left of a couple of
hundred homes, some temporary, some per-
manent. The evening trains bore back to
the city a good many whose chief posses-
sions were a bathing suit and a scorched
skin.
One party of girls and women were dipping
when they noticed a big smoke rising away to
the north. Presently they decided to go ashore
and dress ; but before they could reach their
light bungalows—they had given up their
Melbourne houses for the summer, and were
living down at Aspendale—the flames had
licked up their homes, and they just had to
sit on the beach and wait till the battlers
had time to attend to them. They couldn’t
even cross the hot ashes to view the remains
of their household goods. One woman com-
ing down by train noticed the fire just as it
started at Aspendale. Before reaching the
next station, Chelsea, she pointed out to a
friend the cottage they were to occupy. They
had but a few chains to walk back, but all
that was left of the home when they reached
it was a stack of hot bricks and some twisted
iron. One woe-begone sufferer was a young
woman who had been burnt out while she
was indulging in a mid-day plunge. She
was only a week-ender, and the next tram
to town bore her home, her bathing dress
modestly screened by an overcoat, very
short, but very fnendly.
The sea-beach photographer is a vulture
for business. Within a few hours of the holo-
caust, owners of demolished humpies were dis-
covered sitting on mounds of rescued belong-
ings, posing for photographers, while the
last spirals of smoke drooped dejectedly
among the ashy ruins, and the smell of
roast chook (feathers and all) rent the air.
During her last season the Butt lady
varied her ballad singing with a consider-
able amount of operatic extracts. Clara will
not admit that she has any plans for future
grand-opera appearances, though all the
signs point that way. “Modern grand opera
is looking up,” she says.. “The contralto now
gets a real lead occasionally; but all the
established favorites—or most of them—are
written round the soprano.” Clara would
never be content with a secondary part.
Arthur Sullivan once planned a new opera
with special parts for the Butts, when they
were all together at Naples, but the com-
poser died before the thing took shape. After
X a w£
standing bv, stroked his chin thoughtfully
and complained that the baritone parts in
opera always included beards in the make-
up. To a moustached beauty-man such dis-
gUises are abhorrent. It astonished me to
hear that the correct Rumford hates the
severe restraint of the platform, and some-
times i ongs to strike fierce attitudes, instead
j p oS i n g iik e a plaster saint in well-cut
f .i oi -w
' , . . , , , ,
The brave pantomime watchers were baked
Scaled during the first half of
Christmas week. The sweltering heat gave
the production a real Australian atmosphere
and made one realise what persistent theatre-
haunters the natives are. On Christmas Eve
t k e s t a ]i s were packed with perspiring men,
w j lo revived themselves during the intervals
j n j-jjg US ual manner. Most of the women
were a t home preparing for the annual over-
feecj. The various and beautiful legs of the
show are quite satisfactory. Marie Eaton,
a s captain of the thieves, clamps her tights
with metal stars. Jessie Lonnen, as the boy,
wears ginger-colored trappings and puts
plenty of the same spice into her work,
though her voice seems to have faded to a
sweet piping through the heat. Dame Brett
is most startling when he puts on plaid black-
and-white “harems,” which look quite smart
when they have mustard-leaf panniers above
them. It may be added that a panto, he-she-
male in black ballet dress with black chiffon
trouserettes over very slim shanks is a weird
sight. This is a year of daring “dames.”
Melb. Liedertafel a couple of weeks back
serenaded their former president, Arthur
Snowden, on his 84th birthday. At the
annual Christmas “smoko” the present head
of the society told the members that they
would be deeply grieved to hear that their
l a te chief had been seriously ill — r ever since
they had serenaded him. The guffaws of the
non-singing members convinced the president
that he might have put it better,
A recently-arrived show-lady passed
through all the stages of love’s young dream
within 10 days of landing in Australia,
Almost as soon as she had unpacked her
belongings she changed her name, the mar-
riage feast being spread at a tony St. Kilda
boarding-house. Seven days later she and
the happy man, who bears a military title,
had agreed to part. The disillusionment was
mutual, seemingly, and they are both repent-
mg at leisure.
Tenor Hal Cohen (irreverent men used to
ca u hj m “The Turnip”) is at last giving his
WO men-worshippers some cause to cheer and
<j ea f en drawing-rooms with his praises.
Billed a S “Harold Colonna,” the
?'°S t T 7“ u "f ‘I, London
j? d £ ai \oi / C ’ at ,P ovent Garden. He 1S
a ,looked f,? r lading pa s ts „ in A
f rlD ’ 1’ aust and Carmen. According
I ' e . cei l! : ca 1 ? < / s ’ a . a * to share some
his limelight with the persistent suffra-
&ettes._ some of whom came to the blessed
p^a , c^,^ us^: j° s .h° u t a ew inquiries at George
ar *d Mary during a command performance,
Melbourne’s champion frocker managed
to make herself a star item even at the city
shopping carnival on Christmas Eve. She
was barely clad in an X-rays lingerie tub-
dress that simply shrieked expensiveness in
its simplicity. Her hair, under a mob cap,
was brilliantly red, and she carried a bright
green balloon at full tension at the end of a
string. Added to that was an adapted
French shrug and a shrill voice, colored
with a broken-French, baby-English patter,
which circled her escort’s devoted head and
then went ringing down the street for the
edification of passers-by.
The culture clubs—or the clubs where cul-
ture j s supposed to be—are growing frivolous
in a care f u l sort of way. While the Reper-
tory folk were planning their dance, the
Lyceum people indulged in a fancy-dress riot,
very decorous, of course. The rooms are not
very large and the membership is restricted
to those w h o have university letters after
their names. TJnlabelled people are quite
sa f e from it. The show was designed as a
send-off to Enid Derham, who composes music
as W ell almost as she writes. She is off to
England for a holiday and a little more study,
f)r. Constance Ellis made a speech to her
on behalf of the Club, and secretary Estelle
de Beer got rid of some original poetry. All
hands were disguised in fancy dress, and
there was an identity-guessing competition
for prizes. Just to show that women have
a sense of humor, a woman-doctor operated
on and separated two guests who repre-
sented the Siamese twins. This caused
shrieks of merriment, and was regarded as
the star item of the evening,
Fashionable women nowadays are like
cuckoos—always in some other woman’s
house. A familiar yelp at tea parties is
“Oh, yes! the Moneygrubs have my house
for three months, while I have the High-
fliers’ cottage at Macedon.” And the odds
are the other one counters with, “We’ve got
to put un at Menzies’, you know. The
Blithers simply won't give up our place until
the time is up—and I did so want to get
settled immediately we got back from Eng-
land.” Anyone dropping into Melbourne
after a year’s absence would be in a dreadful
tangle if she went out calling without first
getting some sailing directions. The A’s
are in B’s wigwam, and the B’s are flatting
while the C’s have gone travelling and “lent”
their mansion to a poor but fashionable bride
and her new husband. The bride gees in
some good work entertaining in the luxurious
place; then, when her tenancy is up, she
drifts into a flat or suburban obscurity.
Poor but presentable relations are most
useful as caretakers. They are allowed to
have the rich relative’s deserted mansion at
a nominal rent while the r.r. “does” Europe;
or else an ambitious mother of eligible girls
gets a splendid nest on the same terms long
enough to give dear Dorothy or Dodo a
chance to catch a husband in the garden.
The old practice of leaving Mary Ann amidst
holland covers is quite obsoiete amongst
those who are burdened with real estate, and
the lonely professional caretaker has gone
out of fashion.
The Arts and Crafts Depot, where the
high-toned association condescends to take
a commission on its elegant dealings, did a
roaring ti-ade before Christmas, just because
it had attractive local goods to sell. Every-
thing in stock was Australian-patterned and
Australian-made, and peonle could send
greetings to England or Bavaria on cards that
had not been imported to be exported again.
The laughing jackass and the ’roo trailed in
a homely way over stamped leather; and
Wallace, a local potter, had tobacco jars
modelled on Australian flowers. Miss de
Castieau hammered out a tankard from bronze
and paint, and canvas merchants sent in
sweet water-colors of just the right size and
price for Christmas presents. Miss McGeorge,
who started this commercial venture, went off
for a holiday with a thankful heart, while
the ever-busy Mary Chomondeley gave an
eye to the business. A visit to the Depot is
almost as good as a trip to the mountains.
It roosts high in the tall Auditorium Build-
ings, and every window has a bird’s-eye view
and a different breeze.
The Netherlands cadet ship suddenly blew
into port here with only a wireless whisper
as advance warning. The local flappers are
dimpling prettily to all the Dutch boys they
instructed in Australian flirtation last trip,
and the Best People are shooting invita-
tions at them through the post and by word
of mouth. The commandant is a ladykiller
with bright blue eyes and waxed red lip-
whiskers pointed upwards. It is the blue
eyes more than the whiskers that do the sen-
timental damage.
The helpless wealthy classes have found a
new antidote for the sting of Mary Ann. A
husband who should have known better, con-
sidering the circumstances, rang up his home
one evening and announced that he was
bringing several company-director friends
home to dinner. His wife hung up the trans-
mitter with a crash, and, sitting down in
her servantless hall, asked Providence to tell
her why men weren’t born with common-
sense. Then an inspiration hit her. She
sent out the domestic S.O.S. distress signal,
and a catering firm despatched food, dishes,
waiters and cook to the deserted Toorak
home by a fast motor. The trained mer-
cenaries took possession of the kitchen
regions, and produced dinner at the appointed
hour in an Arabian Nights manner. I am
told it is a delightful scheme—until the bill
arrives.
A small Gen6e follower named Edith Ben-
nett made such a success of her pirouetting
at the Greens’ juvenile dance the other day
that the turn and a few others are to be re-
peated, at vice-regal instigation, in Her
Majesty’s Theatre at a matinee. Mrs. Green
and daughter Florrie will, of course, be in
attendance at the wings.
The McMickings, of Manus station, re-
cently came to town in search of coolness, and
were well roasted along with the rest of the
fainting inhabitants. Their woolgrowing
station spreads out in the shadow of Kosci-
usko ; but I understand that Kosciusko
throws a very brief shadow when the sun is
high. One sister is speeding straight off to
England, where the spring is frequently wet
and the cuckoo crows huskily.
Robert Best and his dame have been
ruralising for a year or more on the outer
fringe of suburbia, and putting up with some
imported household help that England didn’t
want. After being reduced to grooming the
cow in person and valeting the horse, the
pair admitted themselves beaten and re-
treated sullenly to the sacred precincts of
Toorak.
It has been definitely decided that a por-
trait of Henry Gyles Turner, presented by
a clutch of his admirers, is to occupy a
yard or two of valuable wall space in the
National Gallery. H. G. Turner was a
banker, and not a conspicuous bonfire even
as a banker. His dabblings in literature
were even less fortunate. But he is a trus-
tee of the Felton bequest, and scores by
virtue of that fact, and by reason of per-
sistently advertising his middle name. Had
he been written plain Turner from the be-
ginning he would never have been visible
on the artistic horizon. Quite a number of
futile men have caught attention by tire-
lessly dinning into the public ear a middle
name like Gyles.
Dolores returns to this hospitable country
early in the year. ’Murkan Boyd Wells is
following up with the piano. He missed
the last trip, but yearns for Australia
again.
Gladys Chirnside has bolted again with
a demure little Fenner girl. They are han-
kering for a Fogtown flat —such as they had
before —and the liberty of bachelor girls.
Gladys has her own banking account; and
mother, being much occupied with step-
papa, accepts the situation. “It’s the Chirn-
side blood,” she remarks resignedly—“Chirn-
sides will have their own way.” The boat
they travel on is predestined for a lively
time. A couple of Mount Gambier Clarke
girls are aboard to help with the fun, and
their mamma makes a delightfully quiescent
chanerone.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
On Saturday the Denmans, with Miss Ivnatchbull-
Hugessen, Lord Richard Nevill and Capt. Pollok,
passed through this hamlet on their way to W.A.
They motored from Aldgate to Marble Hill for lunch,
and then went on to join the Ivatoomba at Port
Adelaide. This is the first time that persons of such
eminence have deliberately journeyed in a “coaster”
—though why it should be so, considering the excel-
lence of our coastal marine, I know not.
Mrs. and Miss Gilbert, of Pewsey Vale, were at
Marble Hill over the week-end.
Mrs. Herbert Rvmill and Miss Freda Wright struck
awful weather for their entertainment in aid of
Estcourt House. However, about IQOO people went to
the Henley Beach Kiosk and danced to the tune of a
torrential downpour.
Mr. Heath Nash, who died so suddenly the other
day, was one of the McDouall Stuart exploring
party. He was the son of Dr. J. G. Nash, the first
“Colonial Surgeon” of the State, and was born in
Adelaide in September, ’3B.
The engagement is announced of Mrs. Charles Rasp,
widow of that Rasp who tore about a million sterling
out of Broken Hill. Baron von Eistenstein is the
prospective capitalist’s name, and he is German and
a field-marshal. The lady is German, too.
Though Saturday was blazing hot a big crowd of
enthusiasts went to the Port Races. The club has
improved the course; also the cloak and luncheon
rooms. The Hylands were there, and the H. P.
McLachlans, Mrs. Graham, Dr. and Mrs. John Corbin,
Mrs. Douglas Crozier, Mrs. Angas Johnson, Mrs.
Frank Bonythdn, and Dr. and Mrs. Morris. The last
race gave a dividend of £33 3s. for second place.
A vendor of postcards has been prosecuted for sell-
ing reproductions of pictures from the Louvre and
the National Gallery, and the old problem of what
is an indecency is once more on deck. Hercules has
been condemned, likewise Venus, and none knows
what sample of classic unclothedness is to be assailed
next. Meanwhile the movement in favor of forcing
bishops to cover up their legs is in a state of sus-
pended animation.
Mr. George Webb did the portrait of the late Mr.
Archibald Mackie, which was unveiled at the Com-
mercial Travellers’ Club on Tuesday afternoon.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.
Maoriland is still finding out that the
more you borrow the more you are taxed to
pay the interest which the borrowed money
doesn’t earn. Here is its record for the past
five years:—
Taxation per Taxation per
head of population head of population
including Maoris. excluding Maoris.
1909 . . £4 7 5 £4 11 11
1910 . . 4 1 6 4 5 6
1911 . . 4 12 4 4 16 11
1912 . . 4 19 0 5 3 10
1913 . . 5 2 3 5 7 2
Under a perfect system it is possible for
borrowed money in the bulk to earn its own
keep ; but under the imperfect system which
is universal, when a work pays a trifle more
than interest, concessions are instantly made
to mop up the balance, while there never is
any balance on the right side in connection
with thousands of things into which loans are
diverted. And as some part of every loan
goes into unpayable things, the taxation
grows with the total loan outlay.
The man who wants to forget the world
for a day or so should buy James Edmond’s
book, “A Journalist and Two Bears,” which
was launched on the market last week. It
ranges from wildly humorous to profoundly
interesting. Most of the stories and verse
contained therein have appeared in either
The Bulletin or The Lone Hand Maga-
zine but mostly in The Bulletin.*
“M.”: The recent Maoriland strike, the
most ambitious of its kind yet attempted in
the Ricketty Islands, was another proof that
to be successful the leaders of. such militant
movements must have the tactical skill of a
Napoleon or a poker player. Semple, Hickey
and Young were mere ordinary Blokes. They
had bluffed through a few strikes in 1911-
1912. but the bad run they had over the
Waihi business upset their play. Early in
the year they tried to hobble the Maoriland
police by attempting to form that body into
a Labor organisation. Thev failed. And
still in this last strike they might have
avenged Waihi but for the Maoriland farmer,
who, as luck would have it, had been wait-
ing for them for years. The Maoriland
farmer is mostly the second and third gene-
ration of English, Irish and Scotch pioneers
who proved their grit in the work of colonisa-
tion amid the greatest difficulties; and man
for man, mentally and physically, he is far
superior to the mixed crowd which usually
grafts at a waterside. Notwithstanding
many diatribes against him, he is just
about good enough to crumple up
anything this side of the Line, and one day
or the other, in' the future, I hope my shade
will be on hand to cheer 100,000 of him
along as he helps to keep Australia white.


CD
pop Sues
(£)
He Starts off with
CS-REAT CortpipErtcE. Which
IS HOT" SHARED ©y EITHER
" HIS keeper °«
Do©-
' (3)
SvsPlCl©riS> Of 'frt’ET
Do®
(A*) _ _ . —'w* 7
JHLE ZTO»ri€> a UT xtf WE.THQPS
EXPERiErtCEp Box f inxo
HOX
(s; _
R ECOvERI/i Cr SUOWUy WtTft THEJ
JBE.TI4Grt HELP °P ,SCtiwfcrFfc»
JHE NOW SABOTS ** '" >e
'
I SECURITY
M of
For .5 rle:
CrtEAp
SertoirtE-
HfVrtTOrl
*L\ c. j
©Wrlo£ m
no fv&TkJf//
use; m 1:


df
Mirrors
and
Glass
Ware
Always
brigh;
and clean)
after
Bon A n»M
Bon Ami
•Sr®*
Q
The operation takes Just one work*
ing minute and .leaves the mirror
brilliant.
t S
I I
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Amf
way is
the
easiest
way.
iiuv uog
&
Brilliantly polish up your pots ket-
tles and pans with Bon Ami—it's
perfect.
f 2
THe World’s Best.
PAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
sdf
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Hugh V, McKay, Sydney & Adelaide
j
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Brumby”: There is a suggestion of
hypnotic influence in “Machete’s” statement (B.
4/12/’l3) that his Papuan carriers fixed a “basilisk
stare” upon the mosquitoes that settled on them,
before proceeding to extinguish the insects. No
occasion to mesmerise mosquitoes at all. All that
is necessary is to draw the sinews or muscles tense
about the part where the winged torment has taken
grip. The tightened skin holds the tip of his sharp
proboscis like a vyce, and your enemy is securely
tethered. You can then demolish him according to
your taste.
“II.I.O.”: “Flinderino’s” tale of the
drover’s nigger (B. 4/12/T3) reminds me of the
yarn told of his brother, who was taken to England
by his boss, a big squatter. All day long Jacky sat
in the bows gazing anxiously at the water. Seeing
that he grew more despondent daily, his bos3 ques-
tioned him. “I dunno, boss,” he replied despair-
ingly ; ‘‘l dunno. Can’t pick up t'is plurry track
nohow.” There is another version which tells of a
Boer prisoner taking his first sea-voyage, en route
for St. Helena. About sundown the first day out he
began to show signs of worry. At last he approached
one of the ship’s officers. Said he: “Kerel (mate), is
it not time for the outspan, eh?” The idea of not
camping for the night had never occurred to him in
his wildest dreams.
• • • •
“Camp” : The row that was raised when
it leaked out that an Adelaide doctor had tried to
export an aborigine’s head to an eminent brother
Sawbones in Edinburgh suggested to me the why
of an incident that had been worrying me for years.
I was yard and stable hand at the only pub in a
bush township. One night, about closing-up time,
three men drove up. Two made a bee-line for the
bar, where I heard them order a pot each, and then
a “repeat.” It struck me as being odd that they
didn’t trouble about the thirst of their pal in the
trap, so I meandered over to strike up a yarn with
him. He was muffled up in an overcoat, and had
his hat pulled well down. “He’s a rum sort of a
cock,” I thought, “to be both thirstless and cold
on a night like this.” He turned a deaf ear to my
remarks, so I reached over the wheel, and gave him
a gentle push to waken him up. As soon as I
touched him, however, he tumbled sideways on the
seat. It was a corpse. I pulled myself together,
struck a match, and recognised the cadaver as Tom
Binghi, the nig who had pegged-out in the Cottage
Hospital and had been duly planted that morning.
Whatever the game was, I reckoned I’d be in it.
The stripper was out in the yard ready for a start
at the wheat in the morning (the boss did a bit of
cockying), and this offered about the safest tem-
porary hiding-place for the corpse. So I did the
transfer in quick time, and, borrowing the overcoat
and hat, took the late Thomas’s place in the buggy.
Presently the two men came out, and away we
rattled towards the railway town 20 miles away.
It was a mighty irksome job keeping rigid, and I
was sizing up when to introduce the question of
the fiver I reckoned on, when the chap who was
driving began to talk. “We should have chanced the
time, and had his head off on the spot. How do
you expect to get him to town like this?” “Oh,
that’s all right,” said the other; “pull up when you
get to the next patch of mallee, and I’ll whip his
head off. It won’t take us long to bury the rest of
him. ’ This rattled me. Just then the chap on mv
left was lighting his pipe, when a puff of wind
caught the burning tobacco, and landed some of it
in my eyes. Before I knew it I’d let out a yell,
and clapped both hands to my optics. This broke up
the show. The partners tumbled out on the side
handiest, while I was left sailing at the rate of
knots behind two bolted horses. The stop came
when the undercarriage hit a stump. I landed, but
I didn’t stay. Next morning when the winnower
hands raked out the first stripper load of headings,
the township knocked off to a man and cleaned out
the stock of the pub discussing the mystery. They got
no help from me.
WHITE PFELLER IGNORANCE .
BILLY WAREGO : “Any Utters for my boss?"
POSTMASTER : “What is the name of your boss?”
BILLY WARREGO: “You can read, can't yer? Look on the letter, you'll see it
belongah there.”
TEACH ME TO LOVE.—(A NEW FIVE-FINGER EXERCISE.)
Young women who wandered about Bourke-street endeavoring to attract the attention of seafaring
men were specially watched by plain-clothes constables. They cautioned numerous offenders, and six
of h dlsre g a rded fu r ther warnings, were arrested and dealt with on vagrancy charges. One
of the offenders proceeded against was a deaf and dumb girl.— Melb. paper.
“Machete”: “Ivikori” (B. 11/12/’l3) has
mixed his facts in his par. re the Goaribiri affair.
It is true the Goaribiri Papuans conferred the
martyr’s crown on that hard-case old missionary
Chalmers, and his offsider, Tompkins; but “K.’s”
statement that the citizens of Daru subsequently
mopped up the village is fantastic. If any mere
civilians had done such a thing, George le Hunte,
who was High Panjandrum then, would have sent
them to the galleys, or, rather, what was in his
opinion as bad, back to beastly Australia. The
news came first to Port Moresby, and the Merrie
England straightway loaded up with armed civilians,
native constabulary, and many missionaries mili-
tant. A party of the Permanent Artillery from
Thursday Island was picked up, and a bee-line was
made to the scene of the trouble. The water is
very shallow thereabouts, and after an exhausting
pull in the blazing heat, the party in the boats
scrambled through 200 yards of glutinous grey mud
some three or four feet deep to land. The Goaribiri
men had long ere this sought the dank recesses of
the vast sago swamps lying behind their metropolis.
Thither the native police pursued them. A couple
of days afterwards le Hunte went back to Port,
taking with him an alleged principal in the mur-
ders and missionary Tompkins’s skull; but, after
six months’ pleasant sojourn in Port Moresby gaol,
the prisoner was sent home, loaded with gifts. Thus
ended le Hunte’s part in the affair. Then came
Lieut.-Governor Robinson, who, egged on by the
missionaries, resolved to adequately deal with the
treacherous crowd, whose immunity from punish-
ment had made the name of the Government a by-
word all over the Western Division. He did not
go ashore, as “Kikori” states, but remained on the
ship some miles in the offing. The capture of the
leaders in the massacre, who were well known by
now, was left to the then R.M. of the Western Divi-
sion, H. A. Jiear, an experienced officer. His plan,
approved by Robinson, was to get the two chief
scoundrels on board the Merrie England, and there
arrest them. The natives, who were in hundreds
in canoes about the ship, saw the struggle and the
arrest, and, snatching up their great 6ft. bows,
poured a storm of arrows on the Merrie England.
The Native Constabulary replied with their rifles,
and the canoes scattered in all directions. The
casualties, though no dead or wounded bodies were
found, were soon reported to be anything from three
or four to a hundred. No one was hurt on the
Merrie England, though her sides and deckhouses
-bristled with arrows. In this connection it should be
noted that an attempt was made by these very
natives to “cut out” PI.M.S. Fly, away back in last
century. How many ships passing through Torres
Strait have gone ashore on that treacherous coast
with unpleasant consequences, no one will ever
know. The howls of Exeter Hall, backed, I am
sorry to say, by most of Australia’s daily press,
brought down a storm of villainous slander on
Robinson’s head. The Royal Commission on the
affair exonerated him, but before the finding was
made known to him he died by his own hand at
Port Moresby, broken down under the calumny
and ostracism of those whose real complaint against
him was that he had succeeded to a billet for
which many official mouths had been watering.
* * * *
“Machete”: “Jimmy Ducks” tells in a re-
cent Bulletin of a choice titbit tendered to him
as an honored guest at an abo. feast, the said titbit
being a river turtle roasted in its shell. “J.D.”
remarks that George Keid would not have turned up
his nose at it. He would not. He’d have turned up
his toes as soon as the Awful Smell was set before
him. Even the average' motor-lorry is far behind a
river turtle in indicated Stink Power. If “J.D.”
really scoffed that dreadful dish, as he avers, he
should take rank with the high-game eaters, ghouls
and other devourers of corruption. No, sir! If the
Voice that Breathed o’er Eden had breakfasted on a
river-turtle, Adam would have remained a bachelor.
* * * *
A. Borig”: He was an ex-dairy cocky
who had recently sold out, farm, cows and all, and
I expressed my wonder, and said it must have been
a wrench to part with his cows. “Well,” says he,
“it’s this way. I read a bit, and think a good deal]
and I was findin’ out that the Cow was gettin’ charge
of all my innards. I couldn’t pass a cow without
admirin’ her. I talked of nothin’ else.’ Two or
three times I nearly upset my cart, milk and all,
through gazin’ at good-lookin’ heifers, and not
noticing where I was goin’ ; and if anybody else was
driving I was in danger of me life all the time, for
we both discussed heifers. Then come the Melbin
Cup, and that broke me up altogether. I generally
have a bit on, and am pretty lucky, bein’ a champ-
yun dreamer. Three times I dreihpt the winner, and
backed him, too; and this time, bein’ a bit flush, I
intended making a haul, so set meself down ’to
dream it out. Well, it came at last one night. There
was the crowd and the course and the horses and
the bookies. The race started, and nearing the finish
I strained my eyeballs trying to get the horse’s
number, when, blow me, if an old strawberry cow of
mine didn’t flash past the post with about 20 cows
follerin’, my old missus ridin’ her, and “Milk Test
4.9,” on her cloth. There was no hope for me in a
strawberry horse with No. 49, ridden by an old
lady. So I woke, and the old girl told me I’d miss
the milk train in the mornin’ if I didn’t sleep. Then
I did the crime of me life. I cussed the train, and
—yes, I damned the cows! The missus never got
over it. The next night I drempt what was nearly
a true dream ; I dreamt I was, a prize cow with a
blue ribbon round me. I reckoned cows was gettin’
too much of a hold on me, so I sold out; and here
I’m working for 10 bob a day, and to blazes with
cows, I sez.”
(Continued On page 24J
DOCTOR’S ORDERS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now the sect which Aminadab Chugson adorned
Was the sect of Don’t-mind-if-I-do ;
So Aminadab Chugson was frequently corned
Through the habit of having a few.
He was one of the stoutest supporters of Bung
That ever went shickered to bed ;
But he awoke every day with a rabbit-skin tongue
And a xylophone noise in his head.
There came a sad day when the doctor said, “Hum !
This comes of your spirits and wines.
Your liver is leather; your kidneys are numb ;
There are certain albuminous signs.
In the whole of your system there's general rot,
I’d not be amazed if you died ;
Your outer integument’s going to pot,
And you’re like a museum inside!
“No whisky !’’—and Chugson fell down on the floor
By a chair that he happened to miss.
“No whisky!” he roared with the terrible roar
Of a soul that is sundered from bliss.
“Well, well,” said the doctor, “you’ve got to
forsake
The habits of dissolute men ;
But to let you down light I’ll permit you to take
Just one little drink now and then.”
Aminadab Chugson went down to a bar
As sickly and sad as could be;
He looked at a bottle adorned with a star
And another bedizened with three.
And he said to himself: “ ‘Now and then’ was the
rule,
And I’ve given the doctor my vow ;
I had a drink then, and I won’t be a fool,
But I’ll just have the other drink now.”
So Chugson and liquor are friends beyond doubt,
As firm as they were at the first;
Obeying the orders the doctor gave out,
He never ill-uses a thirst.
He breasts the glad bar with an innocent brow
And with faith in his system sublime—•
A little drink then and a little drink now,
But never two drinks at a time.
N.S.W.
M.


SIEMENS
___ ■—
TUDOR
Accumulators
are Ideal for
Heavy and
Interrupted
Service.
It does not matter whether for town light-
ing or power work, Tudor accumulators
are built to give continuous, efficient
service.
As nothing but the finest material is used
in their construction, the maintenance cost
on a battery of these cells will be as low
as it is possible to secure.
We recently supplied a very large Tudor
Battery (capacity 4000 ampere-hours) to-
gether with Siemen’s Boosters and Switch-
gear, to the Melbourne City Council.
Other Tudor Batteries are in use at most
of the large electrical undertakings in
every State of the Commonwealth. In fact,
they may be found in practically every
country in the world.
For further details write to any of the
addresses given below.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works
LiniTED,
42 Bridge St., Sydney; 59-61 William St., Melbourne
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS
A. & T. BURT, LTD,
Auckland, Wellington, Dunedin.
sdf
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE.
NELSON IGELESS
SODA FOUNTAINS.
Mm
HM
IS
■. 1
Jr
A Brick House costs
more than a Weather-
board —so do Nelson Soda
Fountains cost more than
the other kind, but the
Nelson is a veritable sky-
scraper of Quality.
Why is it American
Retailers opening busi-
ness in Australia prefer
the Nelson Soda Foun-
tain to all others? Simply
because they are educated
up to using the very finest
machines that money can
buy! The American Fountains are recognised as the best in the world
Nelson’s stock America’s best. Experts from America repeatedly say so, too.
It is to the man of business-ambition that our Fountains appeal. Once
you pay for them your expense ends. How different to the weak, tawdry and
inferior kinds now abundantly afloat, whose one market-buoy is their cheap
price” ! And their costliness, the REPAIR BILL.
The Nelson Soda Fountains (like all Nelson productions) have withstood
the Test of time and Rebuffs of Keen Competition with flying colors. They are
the very acme of perfection, built to enlarge the retailer’s profits and give the
retailer no trouble in the enlarging.
There’s a welcome nugget—a hidden treasure—in every Nelson Machine.
If you instal one NOW, to catch the golden trade of the next four or five
months, you will be raised on to a higher plane of profit-making, before
undreamed of.
Go into the matter with us—talk with us by letter—write for more vital
information.
Remember, too, when writing, that we carry Full Stocks of Refreshment
Room and Soda Fountain Supplies—so ask us to send Catalogue of these.
We can start you complete from £25.
Nelson s Carbonating Co. La
167 GEORGE STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
Growing Vegetables
with
ISON Ml
GARDEN TOOLS
is the easiest thing In the
world. The drudgery of
picks, forks,
spades, hoes and
rakes is all cut out.
m
m
Cm-.
Cultivating witti
the 19C.
This is the popular
IRON AGE 190
Wheel Cultivator and
Plow. It has attach-
ments for plowing,
cultivating, hoeing,
furrowing, ridging and
hilling. Does in two
minutes the work you
would take half an
hour for with hand tools,
as shown; weighs 221 b.
V*
17/- complete,
The “Iron Age” System gives you tools
adjusted On a frame exactly where you
want them, and you have only to keep
your eyes on the wheels to see where you
are going. The handles are adjustable
in height for a tall man or short boy-
no bending of the back, no stretching up
of the arms—you work in an easy,
natural position, and the tool is so light
that the woman or child can thrust it
ahead as easily as a man.
/
No. 11. Wheel Plow, 12/-
A sturdy, efficient tool for opening up light ooiL
Splendid for turning seed under in poultry yards
for birds to scratch out; weighs 151 b.
sd
No. 1
Double
Wheel
Hoe,
34-
Cultivating
Astride of Plant. .
The most complete and compact gardening outfit
ever invented. Has full set of attachments for
nlowing hilling, raking, hoeing, cultivating,
woedin- furrowing. Can be used with single
wheel also, for working between rows; weighs
401 b., 34/- _ ___ .
Try the Modern Way.
Send for IRON AGE, Book.
«Wvs <?0 varieties of IRON AGE Tools, com-
prising ' Wheel Hoes, Plows, Cultivators, Seed
Brills? Fertiliser Drills, One-horse Cultivators,
etc. Post Free Everywhere.
MSPKerspn’f)
Proprietary Ltd-
•‘Tool Merchants,”
554-66 & 582-88 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.


fsd
f
sdf
Sporting
Ammunition.
Used by all Sportsmen requiring
the best.
KYNOCtt MADE
BONAX ”
KYNOCH LOADED
All Component Parts are manu-
factured and put together in our
own factory.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited,
Fire, Marine, Accident & Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonic Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, 10Jd.
and Is. 6d. Obtainable everywhere.*
WEARE BORNT#
OFFER BENEFITf
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
1.0. A.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
/
EVERY BUSHMAN
Should have a copy of
this hook—lT’S FREE
It tells all about Emas-
culating Colts, Branding
and Earmarking Cattle,
Dehorning Calves, Spay-
ing Cows. about Prevent-
ing Pleuro, Mammitis,
and Blackleg, about Im-
pregnating Barren
Mares and Cows.
Teaches you Horse
Dentistry and other
useful knowledge.
This Valuable Book is
Posted FREE Write
for your Copy NOW.
Free
CARL ZOELLER
246 Queen St.
Brisbane, Q.
Established 1896.
OE
ERS
RY
CAT
LOCO
kddyson” : They found him lying by the
old pack track from Eagles to the Whim. His
swag was under his head, his camp fire still smoked
feebly, but he was now beyond all need of the teg
in the blackened billy at his elbow. The name
Andy Warde” was inked on a belt about his swag
hut no other evidence of identification could be
found Woodruffe and Crotty took up the body
and its simple belongings, and deposited the lot
with Jim Wimble at the Sluicers’ Arms, Amazon
‘ lat, taking a receipt for the same, and passed
on, promising to acquaint the police up at the
Wlnm. But at Billy’s Grid Woodruffe and Crotty
got into holts with Summerton’s home-made sea-
green whisky (patent applied for), and were pinned
to the mat after a fierce resistance, so that James
Wimble, worthy host of the Sluicers’ Arms, had
protracted possession of deceased, and suffered some
agonies of mind awaiting official intervention and
the order for interment. Meanwhile Mrs. Steve
O'Brien and Mrs. Horace Hogan did what the latter
called their “Kristchin juty” by the late lamented,
and Andrew Warde, well washed and brushed, care-
fully swathed in a sheet, his jaw decorously secured
in a sling, and his eyes obscured with twin cop-
pers, reposed in great apparent comfort on a bench
in the hotel shed. Jimmy Wimble felt the respon-
sibility of the deceased heavy upon him. Twenty
times in the course of the day following the. arrival
of the corpse he drifted up the hill to scan the
distance for a glimpse of mounted-constable Clarke,
of the Whim; 50 times he stole to the shed door
and peeped in at the body lying so stark and still
in the dim light. “He’s ez amiable a lookin' body
ez ever I seen, ’ said Wimble a hundred times, seek-
ing to reassure himself; for Wimble was a widower
and “slep’ lone,” and it would have been a great
consolation to him to know for certain that the
man could be relied upon to behave himself
•“decent and orderly” while the silence of the long
night was on Amazon Elat. Unhappily Wimble’s
customers were inspired by the presence of the
corpse to an eerie fancy in ghost stories and yarns
of uncanny doings on the part of the restless dead,
with the result that Jimmy saw his last reeling
customer depart at midnight with infinite regret.
The third night came, and there was still no sign
of constable Clarke. Wimble’s last peep at Andy
Warde, if not reassuring, added nothing much to
the landlord’s native terror. “I never come across
a corpse what kep’ better,” whispered Wimble to
himself. “That, I sez, shows a kinder natural dis-
position on his part to behave hisself. He’s as
well-meanin’ a body ez a man could wish t’ meet.
But why don’t Clarke come, or someone?” It must
have been half-past two in the morning when the
sluicers in the camp by the creek were awakened
by the arrival in their midst of a clamorous man in
his shirt. The sudden comer was desperately white,
his eyes were full of madness, and he yelled con-
tinuously. Fighting his way into the midst of the
men, he crouched upon the ground, clinging to their
knees. The inopportune visitor was J. Wimble, of
the Sluicers’ Arms. It took nearly half a pint of
whisky and five buckets of water to restore Jimmy’s
mind to something like order. “Don’t leave me!”
said Wimble. “Keep close round me. My God, I
seen , his ghost! He come to me! I was shook up
in the night! O Lord, it was awful! He was
standin’ over me. The light o’ the moon was on
him like the breath of Hell. He had the white
grave-clothes round him, and the wrap holdin’ up
his jaw. He took hold of me again, and he shook
me, and sez he, ‘That’s a fine bed you put me
ill!’” Wimble ceased, gasping convulsively. “And
what then?” asked Weston. “I came through the
winder then,” Jimmy continued. “I thought he
was after me.” Twelve men went to the Sluicers’
Arms. They disbelieved, but remained in a body.
They looked in at the shed, and deceased was miss-
ing. Very quietly, with beating hearts, and here
and there chattering teeth, they went through the
hotel. At Jimmy’s door there was an anxious pause.
Weston led them in. The moonlight from a window
flooded Jimmy’s bunk, and 12 stout miners backed
solidly into the corner furthest away from the fear-
some vision. In Wimble’s bed lay Andrew Warde,
deceased. In the right hand of the body was a
bottle of whisky, in the left hand a bottle of brandy,
and between the uplifted knees of the corpse was
NO CLOUD IN THE SKY.
“Still, after motoring' through England and
western Europe, I should say, from what I saw,
that there is no decadence anywhere.”
—Any returned Globe-trotter any day.
THE GLOBE-TROTTER: "Everything'sh very
bonza everywhere (hie) —as fur’s I c'n
see (two hies)."
wedged a bottle of square face. When constable
Clarke arrived he ventured the opinion that Warde
was one of “thim cat-leptics,” and admitted that
“catlepsy” was no offence within the meaning of the
act. He offered to arrest deceased for the larceny
of the two coppers off his eyes, but pointed out that
Wimble would have to proceed to recover the money
by summons in the Small Debts Court, so com-
plainant abandoned his case.
A QUESTION OF SPACE.
THE REV. PROWLER (furiously): “ Ah! there’s no room for a true Chreestian in there
with th ’ likes o’ ye!”
BILL: “Gam, there's stacks o’ room! Bring yer tart erlong an' 'ave a spin!"
I, D L.” : The statements made by various
Abo-ites about my friends the Platypus family evi-
dently come from people who derived their know-
ledge from stuffed specimens. Mrs. Platypus does
suckle her young. On the under part of her body,
at either side, there is a spongy substance—not true
skin -and on this being pressed a milky, substance
exudes. The conformation of the platypus’s bill
would prevent little Plat, from drawing nutriment
from a teat, as most mammals do ; but the little
chap certainly does extract food from the mother
through these porous parts of the skin. The crea-
ture is the most nervous of all Australian animals,
and can be literally frightened or hustled to death.
“Machete”: “Lakekamu’s” reference to
the late missionary nurse, Ellen Combley, of the
Anglican Mission in Papua, recalls the time when
she and her mate were in charge of the mission
hospital on the Mambare. Soon after I first arrived
at Tamata, “Tommy the Jockey” came down from
the Gira field with the expressed intention of “snuff-
ing it,” as he put it, at Billy Whit-
ten’s store. He was very bad with
dysentery; and we took him down
the creek in the Government whale-
boat. He was very feeble but unrer
pentant. His first question to me as
he was lifted into the boat was, “Are
you the crimson missionary?” Being
satisfied on this point he kept silent
till the hospital was reached. When
he found that a thorough washing by
the two nurses was the preliminary
event on the programme he went
baresark, literally and figuratively.
Two stalwart A.N.O. men lent a hand,
though, and the deed was done. That
and the rest of the attention he got from the nurses
saved his life, but he never really forgave me to his
dying day, which came a long time afterwards.
“Ballymahon”: If tracking hasn’t been
rubbed off the menu, let rue provide my sample.
Last year on Thurloo Downs, Wanaaring (N.S.W.),
a pack-horse got adrift. The fence was down be-
tween that and the adjoining paddock, and the
“packer” got in there, where about 50 other horses
were running. Three days afterwards an aged
Binghi, with a watery eye, was induced to ' tackle
the job of tailing the runaway by a promise of a
bottle of whisky or a new Bible or something. With
the greatest of ease he dogged the missing quad’s
tracks in and out among the tracks of the other
horses, and ran him to earth 15 miles further on.
This may not seem very wonderful; but you try it,
and you’ll see it’s a lot harder than finding a three-
penny bar in Sydney.
Bagara : J.J.C. ’ aaks how long a
crocodile can remain under water. The answer
seems to be, “As long as he feels like it.” I have
watched the natives of a Papuan district, where
croc, is treated with scant respect, making prepara-
tions to get one out of a backwater into which he
had been fenced with poles driven into the mud
at the mouth. When I arrived I was told that
the game had retired to the bottom of the pool to
Hunk things over, and had been there an hour
Over two more hours went by before a rattan was
passed round his middle and he was hauled out
Jgnomimously, looking as if he wished he could have
stopped under another three hours.
“Hamer” : People who live in and about
Homebush (Sydney) are constantly liable to spend
an exciting time dodging wild, untutored cattle, mis-
laid by careless drovers en route to the sale yards.
It is not uncommon for drovers, when an animal
knocks up, to leave it where it falls. Subsequently
the brute recuperates, and then the circus commences
The other Sunday the Ashfield police station, whicli
is a good distance from Homebush, was besieged by
an excited steer, either with an antipathy to police-
men or a desire to give itself in charge; and, not
long before that, strollers in the adjacent park were
scattered into the branches of the handiest trees
by a couple of horned devils. When I was living
at the Glebe I was awakened one morning by loud
shouts and variegated cursing, which, on investiga-
tion, appeared to come from the whole and entire
police force of the district in pursuit of a mad-
dened cow. The upshot of the revolution was that
the outlaw was driven into my front garden, while
the Force went off to find its owner. No owner
ever turned up, so I suppose he wasn’t at the pub ;
and after running the gauntlet to and from work for
a week, with a flying scramble over the back fence,
I sold the hurtling ton of beef to our butcher.’
The picture-show man at the corner told me that
if the free show at my place had lasted another few
days he would have been irretrievably ruined.
“Oimai”: I read with interest the state-
ment made by a brother-Papualiar that a knowledge
of typewriting is the chief qualification asked of
anyone aspiring to control the delightful cannibals
of Australia’s island colony. In my time things were
different. An elementary knowledge of writing and
reading was all that was necessary. Public officials
were recruited from all quarters. One was an earl’s
son and an ex-officer of the Ross-shire Buffs. An-
other, who rose to great eminence, at one time played
the drum for the Salvation Army in Suva; before
that he was Master of the Ilorse, or Ordnance, or
something, to the King of Tonga, what time Baker
was Consul in that isle. Another had a row with
the Governor because his wife was .too fond of cocoa-
nut salad, and left in disgust. The Governor had
ordained a great planting of cocoanuts at the station,
and on his next visit found the lady had decimated
the plantation for the sake of the crisp kernel of the
sprouting nuts. Other R.M.’s varied in previous
occupation from ship’s stewards to soldiers of for-
tune. Nationality didn’t matter. We had English,
Irish, Scotch, Squareheads and Italians. I can't re-
call any Jews. They 'did hard work when there was
plenty of hard work to do. Some died of fever,
others of whisky, and some have faded out of know-
ledge by unknown paths. If few of them were au
fait with typewriters, most of them could handle
Brown Brother. Those who couldn’t either went to
Heaven early or had sense enough to shift.
“Tekelo”: It happened at Simbo, a sap-
phire bay fringed with lordly palms and over-
shadowed by an emerald mountain—a jewel of the
Solomon Isles. By the little wooded cape where the
head-houses hold their grisly trophies, a launch lay
at anchor; and towards her from the shore was
swimming Billy , trader and owner. Suddenly
an appalling yell drew all eyes to him. To their
horror they saw that William was wrestling with a
young croc., which had its teeth in his back and
was trying to drown him. For a brief, age-long
period a Homeric struggle ensued. The trader raged
and struggled like seven devils, and bashed and
swore most horribly, till the croc, disgustedly let
go. To reach the launch and .clamber aboard was a
matter of moments to the infuriated victim. “Here!”
he shrieked to his excited cook-boy, “you hold him
this feller gun, me swim along water, suppose alli-
gator come and catchem me, you shoot him dead,
finish. Savvy?” Thrusting the gun into the
startled and half-comprehending boy’s hands, the
boss leapt overboard and paddled about in his most
appetising manner. But the croc, didn’t call again,
and a worried native was spared the novelty of
either creating a tragedy or witnessing one.
THE BRIBE.
THE OLD MA N: “I earn t offer yeh much,
Jim, but if yeh marry Liz I’ll tell yeh
wot I'll do — I’ll sling in [?] couple of cows
with ’er. ”
JIM ( enthusiastically): "She’s mine!”
“Jobber” : Re the things they talk about
in the bush. It happened in one of Dubbo’s leading
pubs. A “commercial” was busy writing in a
room where two old “merinos” were talking jum-
buelc, and nothing but jumbuck. The drummer
stood it for an hour and a half. Then he gathered
up his papers and made a dash for the door. But he
paused on the threshold to yell “Baa, you ,
baa-a-a !”
RAIN HORSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the sheep are feeding on the dusty plain,
And the leaves within the scrub hang slack with
heat,
Among the blazing sandhills I am dreaming of the
rain
That hurries with a sound of trotting feet
They are never broken chargers, these horses of the
rain ;
Colts, with streaming tails, they come and go.
Silver-grey, and tender-eyed, with misty, floating
mane,
They rush among the saplings to the waiting plain
below.
Sometimes I hear them in the night, low splashing
in the pool,
Among the lilac lilies in the bulrush-rimmed lagoon,
And their whinnying is gentle and their breath is
sweet and cool
Like a drifting dream of roses on a sultry after-
noon. . . .
The grey rain horses! Hear them, when the sweat
is in your eyes,
And you’re choking in the sweltering branding-yard •
They have left the slate-blue ranges.... thev have
cantered down the rise,
And on the thirsty plain they’re racing hard !
On the morrow, when they wander back among the
piny ridges,
A mushroom crown will mark their track, a bush
flower springing sweet;
Above the overfull lagoon will float a cloud of
midges,
And the buttercups will blossom in the footprints of
their feet!
When the gumleaves in the scrub hang slack with
heat,
And the sheep are spreading to the dusty plain,
How I strain my ears to listen for a sound like
trotting feet
And the whinny of the horses of the rain !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


r* d
yC'\
r:A 'X
/
e
V
m
&
L
Sy
X
J
X
3«
P# A
ft i
s
w*
\
%
t . i
,
■as
V
.’ f
i
V 3^
7,
s v
«*o**
*5
)/
W^/fYA
m v
Mill
vj\ ;
ft*
//
ZW/Zf.
WffJ
mm*
m
m
mm
ivm
- '■■■jfr’*' 7/ A
yLeJMwi
i&W:
v ' “
. . .A
1 4
SK
fffl
/
9WB
tw* /-y
fffl
if 1.1/ Ip®
4 /
Mmm.
11l
:vX
Li ■
SMll
(.w
Mil 1/
SSsS^Sflj
.;>-
' 0,
« -
s>
c
<n
W 7&
O
n
v
<tr
5\
X
mM%v<¥
&M 3
LX;
ill
o<?
!t f
P
I\
r \\
rfl
X
; m 5
\Wi
\ X l\
ptm J m
i : Hl I? • *
1 i 4
\ ! i i* >
¥/
i
m i
(X
»■o rv la t— (~* -P
Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo, <
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the streamers
White and blue,
Red and yellow,
Strain and part,
As the liner
Makes a start.
But each COBRA
Up on end
Seems to say, “ Be
Wise, dear friend !
Keep in touch with
Chunder ! He
“Sh ines <the boots that
F ringe the Quay ! ”


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
So writes a well-kpown physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified to the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
Sanatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the land.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sanatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary and
depressed—Nature’s warning of nervous
weakness—should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Diving,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
m m
1 IV 1
:
% %, §
-t
%
rr -
m
r
I
m
+
m
' \ *•
“ I have watched the effects of Sanatogen upon persons suffering
from various kinds of weakness and loss of nerve-power, and I
have proved it to be most valuable.” —Lady Henry Somerset
“Monica”: I had thought that the “per-
sonal” advertising column was the happy
hunting-ground of the woman-chasers who
haunt the daily-paper jungle. But it seems
that “Wanted a Housekeeper-—Must be
refined,” is also one of his fishing grounds.
Seeing that a woman (“must be refined”)
was required to take charge of a country
home, I sent in the usual application, enclos-
ing testimonials. To one I received a reply
telling me that the place was an excellent
one for the right sort of woman, and I was
requested to send along a photograph. What
personal appearance had to do with house-
hold management was not very clear, but as
I was getting interested, the photo was duly
forwarded. Next morning I received a re-
quest to call at a city office, where I found
the advertiser. He requested me to be
seated, glanced at me critically, and decided
that he preferred black hair. However, he
thought I might do. I became anxious about
the remuneration. He assured me that that
would be handsome —I could safely leave it
to him. He then invited me to meet him at a
city shop next morning, as I miedit want a
few things; and as I was backing out he
passed over an envelope. I did not open it
till I reached the street, and then I found it
was a typed slip in which was neatly set
out the salary and perks, with a footnote to
the effect that all these things were for the
woman who would. Now I know why the
ladies who run certain registry offices take
applicants for housekeepers’ positions into
a back parlor to interview would-be em-
ployers. There seems to be no need to spirit
girls away—they can be bought quite openly
by advertisement, and in registry offices.
Long ago, at the swell church of St. John’s,
in Toorak, where Governors resident in
Toorak House knelt in prayer for other
people’s sins, there was a devout worshipper
of the name of (say) White. He owned one
of the finest houses in Toorak, and heaps of
city property. A parrot-like cry of his
when making a bargain was, “Money’s scarce
the noo.” There was no “plate” in this swell
Toorak tabernacle: handsome velvet bags
were carried round, into which the faithful
put their offerings. One bag on several Sab-
baths offended the officials, inasmuch as, in
the midst of gold and silver, were several
plebeian coppers. The collectors determined
to discover the offender. He must.be a mean
man, and suspicion at once fixed itself upon
“Money Scarce.” On the next Sabbath
“Money Scarce” was offered the bag first.
He ostentatiously put his hand into his pocket.
A full fist came out, and was thrust into the
bag. Then, to his consternation, six fat
pennies rolled on the floor. The bottom of
the sack had been slit. There was a front
pew to let after that.
“Monkbarns”: There is a great store of
Australian literary relics in the British
Museum in London. Very many of the things
are of no interest for England, but properly
belong to such museums as those of Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart, Brisbane and
Perth. A host of visitors to London will
confirm this. For instance, the British
Museum has a diary kent in Melbourne in
the ’4o’s by the Rev. Forbes, the Presby-
terian minister; also piles of profoundly in-
teresting old Melb. newspapers. Just now
I have been told that Barry Sullivan left to
the British Museum a complete set of play-
bills for his two years’ management of the
Melbourne Theatre Royal. Hand them
over! London can only regard them as the
veriest rubbish, despite the vanity of Sulli-
van, or his family, in giving them to the
Museum. I will not say they are exactly
priceless at this end, but they would at least
be turned over fondly by Thespians and
others.
Herbert Power, who is something of a
money Power nowadays, is one of the crowd'
of Toorak (Vic.) land-owners who have
lately sold out their surplus acreage. In
Power’s case it was the vegetable-garden
and cow-paddock which went. Owing to the
cursed Federal (Labor) land tax (£5OOO
exemption) and the blessed State (Liberal)
land tax (no exemption at all for men like
Power), the sporting Toorakite found him-
self paying out bags of sovereigns yearly, for
the trifling privilege of growing his own
carrots and getting 2s. worth of cream with
his apple-tart on Sundays. So he is “taking
his profit”—which is very fine and large—
and putting it in a safe place where the
taxes are less of a tax and the interest is
really interesting.
“Wonga”: It is reported that a moving-
picture firm has approached a popular Eng-
lish Cabinet Minister with a view to using
the film extensively for political purposes.
At the great meeting in London to protest
against the imprisonment of Jim Larkin,
the strike leader, the audience of more than
10,000 is said to have been raised to fever
heat by pictures of Larkin thrown on to the
screen at intervals between speeches. The
moving picture goes a long way ahead of
that crude device. Think of the opportuni-
ties ! Bucolic audiences in N. S. Wales
might have been stirred to immense excite-
ment by a series of Alice Wilkins pictures,
showing Alice smacking another youngster,
the arrest, the police court, the threatened
imprisonment, and the soft-hearted con-
stables tearfully taking up a collection. Min-
ister for Justice Hall would then be seen
hovering on one side, and Wade, as guardian
angel, on the other. The combination of
Wade and the daily papers has failed. Why
not give the moving pictures a chance?
“Lotta”: “Scarehead,” in making the as-
sertion (B. 11/12/’l3) that flappers and
matrons are not worrying over the White
Slave scare, while the “old maids and half-
old maids” are more than making up for it,
does not know what he is talking about. Let
him select at random any family composed of
grandma, ma, flapper daughter and_ maiden
aunt (anywhere between 25 and 45), start
the conversation in the direction of White
Slave catching, and see what happens. As
one of the maiden aunts aforesaid, I
prophesy that it will be Ma who will trot out
all the weird old bogies, while Auntie will
scoff at them. For Auntie has an immense
advantage: mostly, having no Monster to
keep her, she has been at work with man for
anything from five to 20 years, and so has
become used to him without his society man-
ners (he’d as soon think of using them in
his family circle as with his office-mates,
male or female). This has taught Auntie
that the average man is neither the godlike
ideal of a flapper’s dream, nor the combina-
tion of raging devil and plain hog that
Grandma’s warnings would make.him appear ;
on the contrary, our own commonplace, stud-
losing, growling but clean brothers represent
the average man. The hog-variety, which
certainly exists, is the outsider and the excep-
tion. Moreover, Auntie understands, if the
man sitting opposite stares fixedly during the
whole journey, that there is one chance he
is doing so deliberately, and 99 that he is
merely gazing into infinity, with the vague
hope that infinity will show him how to pay
the butcher’s bill. In the same circumstances
Grandma would say it was an instance of
the decay of modern manners, while the
flapper would have a thrilled feeling that
she must be looking unusually nice to-day,
and hug a pleasurable anticipation of the
way she would make the brute wither if he
tried to speak to her.
The reflections of “0.K.,” who is more
than 20:—
At a Melbourne meeting of the Women’s Political
Association last week, one of the skirted reformers
spoke of the marriage contract as a beautiful, nebu-
lous thing which needs to be brought down from the
clouds and put on a hard, legal basis —as though it
were not already the one and only contract which
poverty cannot practically nullify. The speaker pro-
posed that no married man should be allowed to
venture into any speculation or financial undertaking
in his own name: his wife should be his firm partner
in all business matters. The meeting appeared to
welcome this as an absolutely reasonable suggestion,
whereby a wife could get away with a full half-share
of the assets when the firm was dissolved by a divorce
petition from either side. Nobody noted the fact
that the Sex is lee-ally protected by a Married
Women’s Property Act, and that a wife with a for-
tune of her own can speculate to her heart’s content
in her own name, quite regardless of her old man’s
protests.
The human female mind is haunted by a
spirit of discontent with the existing disabilities
of her sweet self, married or otherwise —married
especially. Her spirit is in revolt against conditions
which press hardly upon unloved women, and her
remedy is to make womankind less lovable. Her
strength should be in the charm of her sex attrac-
tion, yet the suffragette hopes to gain her point by
unsexing herself and doing hateful things. Mean-
while the average girl is damaging the Sex’s plat-
form by playing the giddy goat more recklessly. In
her eagerness to enjoy a good time —to go it while
she is young—she wastes her sex attrr t.ion upon
any irreverent bloke who catches her glad eye. The
foolish, “advanced” women are calling upon man-
kind to deliver up to them their overdue rights, plus
impossible concessions; but the foolish young flappers
and giddy elder kindred souls are selling their birth-
right for a box of chocolates.
“Plimsoll”: An international conference
on loadlines is to be held in London in 1914.
A few years ago the Germans raised the
Plimsoll marks on their vessels, and as this
meant that their ships could load deeper
than British ships, the British owners bom-
barded the Board of Trade to follow suit.
The Board of Trade did so, and ought to
have been sorry ever since. The tables of
freeboard formerly in force were calculated
after years of experience, and were scien-
tifically arrived at by maritime experts.
Since the alteration the loss of several deeply
laden ships has been charged to the Board
of Trade’s complacency. It is no secret
that the Board has long regretted its hasty
action, and the coming conference is the
outcome of hurried representations on the
subject. Incidentally, Sydney Chamber of
Commerce is much perturbed because Aus-
tralia isn't to be represented. The Chamber
wants things left as they are, and to that
unpalatable end has made representations
that the Commonwealth should be given a
voice and vote. The Customs Department,
however, points out that the conference is
confined to technical and scientific experts,
and is not enthusiastic at the proposal to
send someone who may not be a scientific
expert on a fat picnic at the Commonwealth s
expense. In any case, Australia has not
been invited ; and, if it had been, the view
of the Sydney Chamber of Commerce isn t
the sort of thing a democratic country would
like the neighbors to hear —especially when
the discussion is on such a humanitarian
subject as the fixing of loadlines.
“Sumone” from S’Africa :—-
“Australian Pressman” wrote feelingly in B.
16/10/’l3 of how the powers-that-be in Capetown
had failed to recognise Australians during the fes-
tivities incidental to the visit of H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia and Sydney some two months ago. The fact
is, the dinner given by the Administrator on behalf
of the Union Government to the visiting Admiral and
his officers was limited to 200 covers; consequently
those who were invited had to be carefully selected.
The six invited as representative Australians stood
for the biggest Australian interests in this town,
and were well able to hold up Australia’s end. Those
who had nothing else to recommend them save the
fact that they were Australians could hardly expect
to receive invitations. _ .
There was no organisation of any kind which
could have been adequately recognised. There have
been some attempts to form something in the shape
of an Australian Society, but, so far, without avail.
Lots of Australians over here want to get back, and
say they would be all right then. These, naturally
perhaps, are the men who talk most about Australia.
They have had their chance here, and mucked it.
Every organisation of Australians in this country
has been “busted” by this “stiff” and loud-voiced ele-
ment, who are too fond of voicing imaginary griev-
ances, and make the Commonwealth correspondingly
unpopular. Officially, Australia is not represented
here at all, if the small subsidised office established
by the Commonwealth Government some 18 or 20
months ago is excepted. It is difficult to imagine
why the Australian Government is so mean in this
matter.
What we really want is that our country should be
represented by an “Agent,” “Commissioner or
whatever one likes to style him, who would be
sufficiently well paid to maintain the prestige of the
Commonwealth, while not overlooking the business
side of his job. It would be worth it, when one
considers that Australia already lifts about a million
and a quarter sterling from the S’African Union
every year, and might easily lift a great deal more.
Secretary Macgibbon, of the Vic. Lands
Department, reaches the retiring age this
year. However, owing to the present tur-
moil in the various Government depart-
ments, caused by the intrusion of a Labor
Cabinet, there has been no Ministerial de-
sire to speed the parting sexagenarian in
John Macgibbon’s case. Instead, he has
been persuaded to keep up to the collar
until February. The Macgibbon is one of
those people who grow whiskers early, be-
cause shaving means keeping longer away
from work. When he goes for a holiday he
never forgets to leave his bush address at
the office, and bales of blue envelopes follow
him accordingly. Some years ago Macgib-
bon married Jean Charlton, the youthful
daughter of a Christmas Hills (Vic.) pion-
eer. Hawthorn is his home; and Heaven
will be, later on, if virtue as a faithful
steward counts for anything.


V.
Bibendum
begs to address his best wishes for the New Year to his Australian friends and
to offer them a few
NEWJTEAR HINTS.
If the life of your tyres you wish to prolong,
And repair bills encounter but seldom,
Read over the rules that are written below,
And take heed to the words of BIBENDUM.
Avoid all those faults, much too common by far,
That for”tyre destruction soon make,
Such as turning abruptly, a sharp standing start,
Or too harshly applying the brake.
Take care not to run on non-parallel wheels,
Close small cuts in covers with Mastic —
Small items, ’tis true, but they save in the end
Repairs both expensive and drastic.
Be sure that your tyres you carefully dry
At the close of a run through the rain,
Also after washing, or else I’m afraid
Your labour’s expended H vain.
If you pay strict attention to matters like these,
You’ll find that you quickly will be
Exempted from wasting both temper and time,
And last, but not least, £. s. d.
Michelin Tyres and Accessories can be
obtained from all the Leading Garages.
A.N.Z. 24.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.
IMPORTANT TO FARMERS.
Reports in the daily papers indicate heaps of trouble from a comparatively new quarter, viz.,
THE RURAL WORKERS. Providing you have several stalwart sons to assist in the farming
operations you have little to fear, but to those not so fortunate we say :
V
-
if/
a
HUNDREDS OF OTHER QOOD REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD HAVE ONE.
WRITE FOR FURTHER PARTICULARS.
Is positively the Farmers and Squatters’ best friend, as it does the work
of from 16 to 32 Farm Horses, with a minimum of expense and labor.
Bear in mind this Engine costs “nothing to feed” when it's not working,
it runs equally as well on Kerosene as Benzine.
it can be used in the Harvest Field without the slightest danger of Fire .
The HABBHALI OIL TRACTOR
CASH or EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD.
The Engineers’ Depot, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Where the Best Engines are Sold (not Kept in Stock).


Lady’s Solid Silver Open
face, Keyless WATCH, full
jewelled, timed and ad-
justed, 20/-. Higher
Grade, 25/-
20 1-
25/-
15ct. Gold NECKLACE,
set Diamonds and Pink or
Green Tourmalines, Aqua-
marines, Rubies or Peri-
dots, £lO/10/-
15ct. Gold and Platinoid BROOCH,
set Diamonds and
Tourmaline or Aquamarine, £5/107-
CATALOGUE
FREE.
Lady’s 9ct. Gold, Patent Expanding
BRACELET, full jewelled Lever
£5. loct. Gold, £B/10/
f WATCH
movement,
Set. Gold BROOCH, set Amethyst, 15/-
POSTAGE
FREE.
18ct. Gold, set
3 Diamonds,
£lO.
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S
LEADING
JEWELLER
18ct. Gold, set
6 Diamonds,
£5.
New Year’s Gifts.
Such a delightful selection of new designs we are show-
ing for the New Year—such an attractive display. Hany
of them are shown in our Gift Book, a copy of which is
yours for the asking. And
WE PAY POSTAGE
on all orders.
9ct. Gold SIGNET
RING, 17/6.
15ct. Gold, 35/-
9ct. Gold LINKS, any
initials, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
s:*j.
D
9ct. Gold Plain BUCKLE BRACELET, 50/-
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
9ct. Gold PENDANT
set Pearls and Ame
thysts or Garnets,
22/6.
f
j
3
Oct. Gold, set
Pearls & Ame-
thysts or Gar-
nets, 20/-
12/6
15/-
Gent.'s Nickel, Non-Magnetic Keyless
LEVER.
Pet. Gold LOCKET,
richly engraved,
25/-
sdf
sd
9ct. Gold, set
Pearls and Ame-
thysts or Red
Stones, 22/6.
18et. Gold All Dia-
mond Cluster,
£7/10/-
9ct. Gold LINKS,
nicely engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 35/-
25f-
30 1-
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt
ing Keyless WATCH, J-
Plate, full jewelled, patent
adjusted balance, 25 / -
Extra jewelled, 30/-,
40/-
rRY US ONCE
WITH AN ORDER.
Silver Gilt Enamel PEN-
DANT, set Amethyst,
12/6.
E
9ct. Gold i-Round BRACELET, plain or chased; Safety
Chain attached, 50/-. 15et. Gold, £4/10/-
807-814 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
WUUVMVVU.A
touwvuvAH
|mo' w “.
WuvttVU vV ' V ‘
Ww^uw.^*
Wttvvvvw#"*'
The Best of Judges
may err in their verdict,
but never in their opinion
that “WINFRED” are
The Best of Cigarettes.
Virginia
Cigarettes.
io
6(1.
PLAIN, GOLD or CORK TIPPED.
20
H-
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON


Make a Good
Start for the
fd
New Year
Right from the jump
decide that your
smoke shall be cool,
sweet and fragrant —a
delight to yourself and
a pleasure to those
around you.
Smoke
King of
All Buenos
Then you are sure of
that satisfaction which
comes from the smoke
of a superior cigar.
Made from the finest
tobacco leaf —a fra-
grant smoke which
appeals to the critical.
Burns freely with a
fine aroma and a
flavor which is truly
delightful.
Buy a Box To-day.
PRICES
KING OF ALL BUENOS
6d. each, or 3 for 1/-
Posted: 50 for 15/9; 100
for SO/-, post free.
KING OF ALL CLUBS
another excellent brand, 50
for 20/-, post free.
ALL TOBACCONISTS SELL THEM.
Craig (Si AitKen
654 Qeorge Street, Sydney
Established 30 years.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
\
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Please yourself
by mating use of
suet a satisfactory
metkod of cleaning
tke teetk as
EH
It is pleasant to know tliat you
kave polisked so nicely tkose teetk
tkat skow.
It is satisfactory to feel tkat
your teetk are all properly cared
for —tkorougkly cleansed witk
tkis antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness in tke moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng,
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
V >
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
Copying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of your having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9? or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 57-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Wolford ltd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND
A
0
STEVENS
Double 8 Single Barrel Shotguns
have Barrels and Lugs Drop-Forged in one piece.
Made of Specially Selected Steel —Strongest
where other Guns are Weakest.
For Catalogue and detailed information write to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens
Arms and Tool Company,
G.P.O. BOX 86,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
COST OF PRODUCTION CHEAPENED.
A High-class
Wp°
Pieper Bayard Hammerless Cun
We are manufacturing one Model only In Hammerless
Guns. THIS CHEAPENS THE COST.
at a Reasonable Price.
With all latest
Improvements, in-
cluding: Pieper’s
Patent Automatic
Indicators to each
barrel, Automatic
Safety and Bayard
Patent Top Bolt
m
&
To be had of all Storekeepers, Gunsmiths and Merchants.
Write to W. A. COX, Box 873, G.P.0., Sydney, for Descriptive Book, post free.
V y
v —‘' **S^4
,A<'
Remington:UMC Arms and Ammunition
Appeal to Expert Marksmen
Because the secret of marksmanship
success is confidence. Confidence in
the arm used and the cartiidge that
is to give the answer of good or bad
aiming begets confidence in one’s self
—and all of these are essential to
good shooting. Good shots and
those who wish to become good
shots turn to Remington- UMC because
they know that old reliable brand
will do its part —and can give their
thought and attention to correct
aiming.
If you wish to improve your score,
next time you want ammunition
just say to your dealer “Give me
some Remington-UMC” and don’t
take a substitute.
Write to us or our nearest representative for a catalog and
some interesting booklets about shooting and arms and
ammunition in general. Sent free postpaid on request.
Remington Arms —Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299-301 Broadway • • - New York, U. S. A.
Australian Representative: D. D. Bryant, P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
Do You Use Glass Instru-
ments in Your Calling ?
dsf
Do you use Scientific Glassware in
your calling? We manufacture and
repair them to exact standard re-
quirements, and guarantee their per-
fect accuracy.
If you wish special instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free.
Shall we send you a copy?
WILSON NAFIS 8 CO. LTD,
Wharf Street, Brisbane, Q.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
?%*
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
tc
>*•
REYNOLDS S CO. “CHALLENGE” Band Instruments
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE NOW READY.
“Challenge” Instruments are High-grade, Artistic and Reliable.
Every Instrument is specially tested by an Expert. Beautifully Finished.
A. P. SYKES
272 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
vnvHisnv voi xnsov aios
Diagram showing the won-
derful protective quality
of Aertex Cellular in
proportion to its weight.
lyard
a
m
m
i r «> 'X
mu j
m'mmmn
hi
Equal insight to
111
iyand
Ordinary
Fabric
Aertex
Cellular
Shirts,
Underwear,
Pyjamas,
Socks, etc.,
and
Ladies’
Corsets
and
Underwear
of all kinds.
Recommended
for Health and
Comfort by all
Leading Medical
Practitioners.
Full Price List
and Samples,
post free.
D. BRAHAM
g CO..
76 Market St.,
Sydney
(next to
Farmer’s).
howl
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Sche bier Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. IiTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
V
“Oh! I say!
It’s Good!’’
Cooling, refreshing and ‘snappy’
"Montserrat
LIME JUICE
is the ideal Summer beverage.
Large supplies have lately
been shipped from London.
JMtONTSEBJBAT la sold by all leading Btorekeepera.
sdf
f RYDER 5
“"“"SEEDS
FLOWERS & VEGETABLES
IN PENNY PACKETS*
The best English Flower and Vege-
table Seeds are supplied by the world-
renowned seed specialists, Ryder &
Son, St. Albans, England.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOCUE (POST FREE).
Send for it to-day.
RYDER & SON, Ltd.,
Holywell Hill, St Albans, Eng,
Seed
Specialist9|
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.


FRAGRANT
aron
In Flat Tins:
Turkish or
Virginian,
6 d.
Cig'arettes.
SARONY CIGARETTES make a delightful finish to a pleasant meal. They
are soothing and attractive at all times. A present of SARONY’S for the
New Year will be particularly acceptable.
Manufactured by
Nicolas Sarony & Co., New Bond Street, London, W.
The Best of Refreshers.
DANIEL CRAWFORD S
PURE SCOTCH
WHISKY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The joyous news comes from Westralia
that Premier Scaddan has resolved to put
the public accounts straight. More good
paving for perdition.
The Yic. Labor Government got off the
mark with remarkable speed in two matters
—the abolition of the “Third Degree in the
police stations and the bringing of the elec-
toral rolls up to date. Willie Watt has
announced that both actions have his sup-
port and will be confirmed. So, presumably,
for doing the right things that Willie had
neglected to do so long, Willie Watt ejected
tl e Labor Government. What would Willie
Watt do to the party that did things of which
he disapproved?
In politics sarcasm can be a dangerous
weapon—to the man who uses it. Joe Cook,
with his half-year holiday in prospect, was
for a change very urbane, and wanted to
oblige Labor members when they requested
all sorts of extra facilities and even more
wages. The pursey Boyd, M.H.R., set out
to be sarcastic about this. He proposed pen-
sions, entirely in an Artemus Ward spirit.
But next day he was aghast at the Age
and Akgtts taking him in earnest, and
slating him as a recreant to his party ; .and
he had to make a clumsy explanation that it
was all quite a joke.
“Hermes” : In view of the remarks passed
bv the S. M. Herald on the iniquity of
caucus government I was horrified on
Christmas morning to find in that erudite
paper the following gliastlv headlines: —
LIBERAL PARTY.
STRAIGHT TALK BY FARMERS.
PROGRESSIVE POLICY DEMANDED.
TUESDAY’S CAUCUS.
So the Liberals have the accursed thing, too,
have they!
The other day it was the paper manufac-
turers and typotlietse; now it is the Mel-
bourne master hairdressers. Their union,
which includes about 90 per cent, of the
trade, has fixed the charge for haircutting
at 9d.,' and for shaving at 4d.; and of course
the non-union or “independent” hairdressers
are undercutting by charging the old prices
—6d. and 3d. respectively. Wherefore the
Master Hairdressers’ president lately told his
fellow-unionists that “something would have
to be done in regard to them. With the
assistance of the employees’ union they could
bring them into line, by depriving them of
their employees.” This isn’t exactly boy-
cotting, neither is it picketing, nor yet does
i.t constitute a strike or lock-out; but it
appears to be quite as effective as any of
those methods of correcting the “free”
worker. It is, in fact, that dreadful thing,
“preference to unionists,” carried to comple-
tion.
“H.H.”: When the N.S.W. Political Labor
League gathers itself together in conference
it will have this proposition among others
to scuffle with (it is Rozelle’s little contri-
bution, and Rozelle is the hindquarters of
Balmain) :
A tax of Gd. in the £ for first year, increasing at
6d. in the £ in each successive year, on all unim-
proved land suitable for building dwelling-houses
upon.
It is the ..sort of proposition which makes
one buy a pint of beer and drown liis soul
in thought. Practically all unimproved land
—swamps, deserts and precipices excepted—
is suitable for building dwelling-houses upon.
Provided the man who owns it has the
money to build dwelling-houses with; also
provided lie can get builders and material,
which may be difficult if 140.000 dwellings
are going up at once ; and, further, provided
lie can get solvent tenants, all is well. In
the common acceptation of the term “land
suitable for building dwelling-houses upon”
is land more or less adjacent to existing
dwelling-houses. But if Brown is required
to build on bis land because it is adjacent
to the existing tenements of Jones, then the
land of Smith, one remove beyond, becomes,
as a consequence, distinctly suitable for the
erection of habitations, and the process goes
on indefinitely. It is a large order, which
threatens to leave no soil available for wheat.
Certainly with all that building in progress
at once the cost of putting up a four-roomed
cottage will become akin to the ordinary
price of a stone palace, and with all these
houses to let at once the rent of the cottage
is likely to be one “bob” per week. _ Just
here it appears time to buy another pint of
beer and start a fresh think, and a very
large one.
PROBABLY WHY NOTHING IS DONE.
Laborites claim that the high cost of living is all
due to the Trusts; the Trusts allege that it is the
result of the wage-avarice of the toiling classes; and
meanwhile nothing is done, and everyone is dis-
satisfied. — BULLETIN 18/12/’13.
Owing to the death of George Davies
Liberals in the Tasmanian Assembly are
now 15 and Oppositionists 14; and prac-
tically all questions are decided on the cast-
ing vote of the Speaker or Chairman of Com-
mittees. A by-ejection is being held to fill
the vacancy, and if Labor wins, as seems
likely, parties will be 15 all. The present
Liberal Speaker will then, it is said, resign,
and if Labor does not nominate one, a disso-
lution seems inevitable, and members ’ will
have to go to the country for the third time
in about 12 months. If Tasmanian mem-
bers do not vote to kill the ridiculous party
system, after these experiences, Tassy will
soon need another Federal grant to pay for
its frequent general elections.
No doubt with the object of making his
calling and election sure, somebody made the
mistake of announcing that Holman had pro-
mised H. D. Morton the Speakership of the
N.S.W. Assembly. The more the party re-
cognises Holman's vast ability the more it
sees the necessity to watch out that he
doesn’t become an autocrat. Wherefore
when some new members of the party heard
that Holman had promised somebody the
Speakership they were up in arms at once,
and the Caucus promptly took the matter
out of Holman’s hands and gave the job to
Meagher.
AN ELECTION ECHO FROM MOONTA.
POLL CLERK: “ T'regillas, Mary Ellen? "
VOTER : “Iss, that's av it.”
POLL CLERK : “Have you voted here or else-
where at this election?”
VOTER : “Av coorse I ain't, and you do knaw
I ain't, so kape thy tongue to thyself and
gove me the paapers fer the Laabor man."
One of the N. S. Wales Labor party’s dis-
appointments was the escape of Daniel Levy,
of Darlinghurst, whose political scalp was
confidently reckoned on. Labor made nearly
a clean sweep of the city and inner suburbs,
and Levy owes his exceptional escape only
to the fact that Judaism clings to Potts
Point and Elizabeth Bay. Still, his majority
declines as the walls of Jericho slowly but
surely disappear before the invasion of the
residential fiat and the hash-house with their
nomadic population. In 1904, Levy won by
014; in 1910, by 510 ; in 1913, by only 210.
In 1916 his compatriot with the bag will
want the odds his way in the betting.
If there wasn’t impersonation at the re-
cent N.S.W. elections it wasn't the fault of
the Second Ballot. That system simply in-
vites ill deeds by providing the means to do
them. The scrutineers have the names. of
all who voted in the first ballot. Smith,
John, of Woollahra, didn’t vote. Smith,
John, is inquired for. It is
ascertained that he faded out
a fortnight ago. Brown,
James, has already had his
vote in Darlinghurst. Still,
it seems a pity to waste
Smith’s vote, so Brown,
James, gives his cause a
hand, and runs practically
no risk whatever. Before
the elections the Government
sent out word that, wher-
ever possible, two partisans
—one from either side —•
should be taken into the
polling booth to assist the
re turning-officer. Presum-
ably this employment of
avowed partisans was to
make things easier for the two machines in
the subsequent proceedings. Anyway, if that
wasn’t the intention it was the result.
The men in Maoriland who were hardest
hit by the maritime strike were, as usual,
people who bad nothing to do with the quar-
rel —little fruit and vegetable growers in in-
accessible spots like Nelson and small pro-
vidores in jumping-off ports like The Bluff.
The former were not able to get their stuff
to a decent market, and the latter,
through the withdrawal of the Australian
boats, lost their best customer —the Union
Co. The circumstance points once more to
the right of the State to say to both em-
ployers and workers: “You shall not throw
all the machinery out of gear and upset the
whole social vehicle.” In these days a
community is so inter-dependent that, no
body of men can be conceded the right to
knock off work just when it pleases them,
any more than a motor-driver can be per-
mitted to pull bis vehicle up in the middle
of Pitt-street and throw that traffic out of
gear.
Those alleged “loyalists” who say that it
would be impossible for a local State Gover-
nor to act impartially in a constitutional
crisis were given a set-back by Acting-Gov-
ernor Madden’s handling of the recent- serni-
burlesque crisis in Victoria. No doubt
even the lamentable Fuller would have fol-
lowed the same course, but the odds are long
that he wouldn’t have felt sure enough to
give his reasons for doing so.
Premier Scaddan (W.A.) has also mislaid
his non-borrowing policy, so loudly trumpeted
before last election. He had authority to
raise a £2,000,000 loan ; but as he thought
this might not be quite enough to see him over
the Christmas holidays, he obtained Parlia-
ment’s leave to grab another trifle of
£3,000,000 in London whenever a Cohen with
that amount about him showed himself un-
protected in any public place.
Wade failed, and now his supporters and
press barrackers are telling him frankly,
some of them fiercely, that he deserved t n
fail. The spectacle of Wade and Wood de-
nouncing the Electoral Act in general, ana
the second ballot in particular, caused even
the most dunderheaded Liberal to_ remark
testily: “Why did you make them? They
were your own creations!” Holman is not
going' to have the happiest of times; but
Wade is in a far worse plight. Covered
with the dirt of defeat, and hoist on his own
gallows, the only reason he is not relieved
of his leadership lies in the lamentable fact
that at present there is no one to take the
place even of this inept, unimaginative
“leader” who can’t lead because he hasn’t
a spark of magnetism about him.
NOT RUNIGN ANY RISKS.
OUTSIZE IN LADIES (to very small gent who
has "worded ” her): " Oh, go away ,
please , please, PLEASE, you wicked man!
Good heavens! How am I to know you're
not engaged in the White Slave traffic?"
The-- election of Speaker on a party vote
is as rotten as the appointment of Ministers
on the same party grounds. The insanity is
getting so intense that soon we shall be ask-
ing what are a surgeon’s views on the land
tax before submitting ourselves to his knife.
And supposing we have a bad eye, what is
the oculist’s skill if he can’t tell us frankly
that he thinks Bill the boilermaker should
have another sixpence a day as “dirt
money” ?
THE DEITY AND THE FORCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Adelaide Saturday.—flic question whether the
nude in art is indecent was discussed in the Adelaide
Police Court. ...Sub-Inspector Priest stated that he
went into defendant’s shop and purchased photo-
graphic copies of “La Cigale,” by Chantron (hung
in the Tate Gallepy, London), “The Three Graces,”
by Nonnenbruch (in the National Gallery, London) ;
“The First Pose,” by Rondell (exhibited in the Paris
Salon in 1912) ; “La Source,” by Chevalier (hung in
the Louvre), and “The Bath of Venus,” by Godward
(in the Tate Gallery). Witness paid 6d. each for
the copies.
By Mr. Webb: Do you consider the statue of
Hercules in Victoria-square indecent ?
Witness: Yes, absolutely, to, my idea.
Should you consider photographs of that statue to
be indecent? —I should.
Have you laid an information against the corpora-
tion for exhibiting the statue? —I have not.
Do you think the statue of Venus on North Ter-
race is indecent to my idea, the statue
of is one form of indecency.
Would you consider the picture of Perseus and
Andromeda in the Adelaide Gallery indecent? —Yes.
Back, far back, at the dawn of things, the Lord, in
an absent way,
Fashioned a naked horse and cow, and man and
woman from clay ;
And He set them down, so the story says, and bade
them thrive and increase,
But (this is the place where He gets our praise) to
man He gave the police!
Now, what are policemen for? you ask, in an inno-
cent way, of course.
To better le bon Dieu’s bungled task is the main job
of the Force;
All the police, as a rule, admit that the Lord created
us nude ;
But, after thinking it over a bit, they found that
His work is rude.
It burst on them, like a terrible storm, on looking
into the thing,
That God had fashioned the human form sans even
a piece of string.
“Tut-tut!” they said, and “Dear, dear!” they cried
—what a horrible thing to see!
So they gathered a couple of fig-leaves wide from
the handiest Eden tree.
And ever since then (and the Lord be praised for
sending policemen here)
No ooliceman has willingly gazed on the blots whom
God created so queer;
The Force foresaw what His work would bring, for,
as everybody knows,
The human form is a hideous thing unless it s
smothered in clo’es !
But for thousands of years degenerate folk, like
bards and artists and others,
Attempted with chisel and sure brush-stroke to limn
nude sisters and brothers—
AVith shameful success, 1 grieve to declare. But the
Force would turn up its nose
And point to the blots with a dignified air, and say
—“They’re a Shame! Where’s their clo’es f”
And, consequently, the world agreed from History’s
very start
That only the Force could fill the need for a Censor
of Letters and Art ;
So, praise to the Lord from each grateful heart that,
after He’d bungled man,
He gave us His police to judge of Art, as only
policemen can !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
A POLITICAL PASTORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. McDonald: “I object to these insulting re-
marks. The Treasurer is sitting there grunting. He
is like a. hen with one chicken.” — Hansard.
When all the pigs have gone to roost, and there
isn’t a eow in the sky,
W’hen the mare has sought her reedy nest, and the
sheep go honking by,
Ah, then, as the tranquil daylight dies, and the
trees stand still and black,
The hen with the lonely, chirping chick comes grunt-
ing up the track.
Home! How I love the flrelit word! No matter
where I may roam,
The anxious grunt of the mother hen will always
take me home.
Let others sing of the barking geese, and the watch-
dog’s surly quack,
I see the hearth when the matron hen rolls grunting
up the track.
N.SAV.
LOVER OF NATURE.


PALING’S
Have the Confidence
of the Public.
THE only way to win the confidence of the music-loving public
is to give them the very best value for their outlay, and
goods that will give them lasting satisfaction. Paling's
adopted this method of business over 60 years ago, and
their colossal business is sufficient proof that the public appreci-
ate their efforts to be as careful in their customers' interest
as in their own. Any one of PALING'S PIANOS, be it
The
Superb
The
Glorious
BECHSTEIN
RO N I S C H
•mm*
The Famous
The Reliable
UPP or
VICTOR.
53P
— 5
Why not write to-day for
Illustrated Catalogue and
Price List? It is post free.
carry Paling's fall guarantee, you may rest
assured that for Tone, Durability and Con-
struction they are as perfect as brains can
make them. No other Pianos can equal
Paling's for Honest Value —hence the confi-
dence of the people all over the Common-
wealth in Paling's. Please visit our Show
Rooms and inspect these magnificent instru-
ments. Old pianos taken in part payment.
is an investment that will bring; you interest for
a lifetime. You will find it the very best outlay
you've ever made, and when we state they
fsd
And at
Newcastle
Lismore
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Brisbane
Toowoomba.
a
m
The
Bushman’s
Needs.
The man whose job
takes him out in the
open needs good, com-
fortable wear - resisting
clothes. He can get
them at the Leviathan
better, cheaper and more
satisfactorily than else-
where in Australia. Let
these values help to
prove it.
Galatea Skirts
S.S.S. brand, double-stitched and
as strong as a shirt can be.
With collar and
pocket
4/3
Working
Trousers
. sr;
U
■
fit
Ilia
■mmmm
Ready-to-wear, in tough leather tweeds that are
hole-proof and practically wear-proof, with non-
split seat, seams, denim pockets and bachelor buttons
9/6
Strong Web
Belts
With leather and nickel
buckle, leather pocket and
dome fastener, in
brown or grey ...
2/6
Good Bush Hats
In smooth or rough fur
felt, brim, broad
band, bow back or side.
Lightweight. Grey,
Slate Brown or
Green
10/6
All Wool
Socks
Of black cashmere, extra
spliced, with merino toes
and heels, and seam-
less feet pair
I|6
In Ordering
For Hat, state size; for Shirt, give usual collar size; for
Trousers, waist and inside leg measures; for Socks,sizeof boots.
WE PAY FREIGHT ON ALL ORDERS. ODR CATALOGUE IS POST FREE.
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
ma**
' : Svi
HERE IS A CAMERA
FOR ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
The Folding Victor-Klito 00K
WITH ENSIGN ANASTIGMAT LENS.
£2/12/6.
THIS is a thoroughly well made and beautifully-finished
Camera, with special advantages not to be found in
any other Camera.
IT CAN BE USED EITHER FOR
HAND OR STAND WORK.
It is compact and portable, and will take sharp, well-defined
pictures in. x 3^in.
Each Camera is sold packed in box with complete Book
of Instructions.
At the price the FOLDING VICTOR-KLITO OOK is the
best value obtainable.
U D
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Auckland (N.Z.), Wellington (N,Z.)
SEND FOR A COPY OF OUR
1914 CAMERA PRICE LIST.
NEW


STOMACH WOHMS.
A MENACE TO CHILDREN.
Stomach worms are undoubtedly the most
invidious kind of all. They inhabit the
stomach and inflict great havoc upon then-
victim. They deprive the victim of halt the
nutriment he consumes, and when the
stomach is empty gnaw the sides of the
stomach, causing such terrible sensations as
to often cause faintness. Aperient medi-
cines have no effect upon them, for when
any purgative is taken they fasten them-
selves to the walls of the stomach by a
groove running down their side. The best
method of dislodging stomach worms is to
starve the system and take Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets. The worms are
weakened by the want of food, and arc in-
duced to take whatever is taken into the
stomach. Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets contain the properties which sicken
and disable the worms, and a dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills will clear them
out of the system. The wife of a well-known
Waitara, N.Z., storekeeper, writes“ Last
week we received the packet of Comstock’s
‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets, and I am glad
to say that they have proved wonderfully
effective. My little boy, aged five, for whom
we procured the pellets, after one dose ex-
pelled a stomach worm measuring 10-1-
inches in length.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion for the eradication of worms in children
and adults. For sale by all chemists and
storekeepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will
be sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Absolutely Pure.
No Preservatives.
SAW
E. RESCH’S LIMITED , Brewer by Appoint-
ment to his Excellency the Governor-General.
Brewery and Offices : Dowling Street, Redfern, Sydney
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARPIE.
How much does it cost to Mend Your Boots?
‘'Pioneer”
Oak-tanned.
Why Not Sole Your Own ?
You can do it well and cheaply. Get a pair of “Pioneer” Cut Soles—
they are made from the best and strongest of Oak-tanned Australian
Leather.
We’ve every size for men, women and children. Ask for prices—we
supply either in Retail or Wholesale quantities.
“Pioneer” Leather Strips, 3ft. to sft. long, are useful for tying up
flowers and many other things. Parcel of 51b. costs 1/- Carriage
extra. Send for a parcel and a pair of Cut Soles TO-DAY.
J. C. LODOWICI g SON, Ltd.
Pioneer
Works,
!17 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Weber’s easy defeat of wrastler William
Maynard on the public mat was subsequently con-
firmed in private, it is said. Maynard called at
the strong man’s rooms in Melbourne a day or two
after the public event, and said that he coudnt
realise that he had been downed on both shoulders
at once, and would like to be convinced by outlie
evidence. It was a sporting request, and \V eber
responded in a sporting spirit by repeating the
throws several times within an hour. Maynaid went
away quite convinced.
* * *
The one-day motor-cycle world’s record
made by G. J. Ramsey, of Ivadina ( s ;A-), st oob for
just one day. Then Carl Ivorner, of Adelaide, wiped
it out, on a 25-mile road course in the same Yorke s
Peninsula district. Ramsey, on a 3*-h.p. Lewis, got
up to 836 miles, 114 over the previous record. Ivorner,
on a 34 Rudge, did 8714, and this is probably nowhere
near finality, as he was nearly blinded for several
hours by flying ants, and lost time reckoned at over
two hours by tubes bursting. His best time for the
60-mile lap was 62 minutes, lie drank only water,
and is said to have eaten nothing during the 24
hours. # *
The Summer Baseball Competition in
Sydney was suspended on Saturday to allow the visit-
ing Yankee pugs to show the natives how to play the
game. But when the time came the only pug to
show up was Ray Bronson, so Leichhardt went up
against a combined Waverley team, and great and
close was the struggle. Leichhardt led off and made
seven. Waverley failed to score one in reply, and
Leichhardt put on two. Waverley responded with
one; but caught a gleam of hope when Leichhardt
failed to score. As a matter of fact, it never scored
again, and Waverley pegged away at the tortoise act.
But it was too slow, after all, and stopped short at
eight, Leichhardt thus winning by one. #
The Yankee Athletic team in Maoriland
sustained a severe loss on Saturday last when Parker,
who was the best man on form in the team, strained
a tendon when pulling up at the finish of the 120
Yards. He had won his heat in 12sec., and the final
in 11 3-sths. As it will be at least three weeks
before he will be anywhere fit to take the track, he
is not likely to strike form again in Australasia.
Templeton made a mighty showing in the 1 5 yards
hurdles, when he beat his great rival, Iveddell, in
9 4-ssec. —which is good going. But the effort
a'pparently finished him, and he failed to gam a
place in the final. In the vaulting he broke Ins pole
at 10ft. 6in. Power competed in the mile, but only
got second place. The usual infernal Wellington
wind was raging in all its fury, and hashed things
up very badly.
* * * *
The first round of district cricket in Ade-
laide went in favor -of East Torrens, unbeaten last
season and (so far) this, Roy Hill, the last of trie
great cricketing family of that name, is dropping
out of the game, but Mayne and Whitty play when
they can, and the rest are young triers, with Len
Chamberlain and Middleton the best. When they met
Adelaide, also unbeaten till then, the loss of Whitty
with a “leg” seemed likely to be fatal; but Andy
Smith, a batsman, produced googlies to the extent
of five wickets, and East Torrens won by a trifle.
Most of the damage for Adelaide is done regularly
by Travers and Wright, who are still powers to be
reckoned with in club cricket.
* * * *
Having smashed up the Ma State in the
first Sheffield Shield match by 19 runs, the victorious
South Australians swept along and fell on Victoria.
The Croweaters went to the wickets, Mayne and
Steele opening to the artillery of Armstrong and
Ryder. Mayne smacked 58, Moyes put up 53, Craw-
ford and Chamberlain made 24 and 43 respectively,
while Pellew hit 17. Then there was a slump to
single figures, till Bridgman made 25 (n. 0.), and
the side left with 245 on the board. Ryder took four
wickets for 93, while Armstrong’s four cost only 51.
On Saturday the Victorian XI started on a perfect
wicket, with excellent light and charming weather—
and crumbled right up. The only warrior of them
all was Armstrong, who carried his bat for 51.
Ransford made 25, Carroll 24, and Bracher 15, the
rest single-figures only. It was a rout, the score
closing at a miserable 140. Kirkwood had smashed
up six wickets for 76 and Crawford four for 63.
Back at the wickets with a lead of 105 the South
Australians smote steadily till 128 were on the board
for the loss of five wickets. AVhat mischief was done
was the work of the aptlv-named Cannon, who had
taken three for 37. In the first innings Victoria’s
wicket-keeper let only one get past him, but in the
second he missed the ’bus with a load of 10.
When the Maoriland Cricket XI crashed
into N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket Ground the visitors
went to the wickets, and also to the woods. Kelleway
fell on the batsmen ; out of 21 overs he bowled six-
maidens, and smashed up seven wickets for 53 runs.
Andrews sent down only eight balls, but took two
sticks for six. The first'two wickets fell for nothing,
and the third went for 10. The only Maorilander to make
a stand was Sandman, who carried his bat for 53.
Snedden made 44, Robinson 31 and Sundries 10.
These were the only double figures, and three _ men
flew the sign of the waterfowl. The side vanished
for 161. By sunset N.S.W.. had smacked 234 for five
wickets, and on Saturday it lifted the score to 513,
Collins and Macartney having biffed 104 and 142
respectively. Maoriland resumed 352 to the bad.
Then the slaughter commenced, only Carlton (22 no.)
and Sandman (33) reaching double figures. N.S.W.
fielding was again far from good, and 10 sundries
helped the fainting Maorilanders. Mailey and
Andrews divided the scalps between them, the former
taking four for 41 and the latter three for 24. Kelle-
way took one for 15. The innings closed for 105,
leaving N.S.W. on top with an innings and 247 runs
to spare.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C. has increased the Caulfield
Cup prize-money to £5OOO for the coming year. The
V-.R.C. will soon be following suit with its principal
events now that it can charge a bob admission to the
Plat which formerly was free. The club had rotten
luck with the weather last Cup meeting, when the
gate-monev possibilities of the Plat were not fairly
tested. Given a fine, cool New Year s Day, the club
should beat its previous best January Ist record by
25 per cent, at least. Holiday punters have missed
the recent meetings where Moses skinned the lamb,
and they reckon that it is up* to Fate to give the
favorites a picnic on Thursday.
* * * *
The totalisator had an afternoon out at
the Port Adelaide Christmas meeting. The good
dividends paid on second horses were its strong
point. Outsiders kept just failing to win, and in all
the last five races the dividend on the second a
quarter of the money in the machine —was always
bigger than the three quarters divided on the first.
In the sixth event, anybody could pick Tadanga to
win, and it was only worth 41s. for a sovereign, but
it took a genius to pick Calamus for second, and the
people who did it got £5 14s. Then came the last
race, a scramble of 25 starters over a mile.. (There
were two that would have paid close on £lOOO it
they had won.) Backers of the winner collected
£4 135.; the clever ones who took a ticket on the
second got £33 3s. each.
* * * *
The A.J.C. Christmas meeting was con-
cluded at Rand wick on Boxing Day, under ideal
conditions. Had the fervent heat of Christmas Day
been continued, racing would -have been just about
impossible. As it was, the gods who look after
these things turned on cloudy skies and a tempering
breeze. If there are any people who go merely to
watch the racing they had a good time, for some
of the finishes were close and really exciting. But
the garden or common variety of racegoer, who is
generally a punter —well, he had another tale to
tell. An amazing feature of the opening race, the
Christmas Handicap, was the fact that of a book
entry of 46 all but seven were scratched at the
last moment. This is palpably a swindle on the men
who bet in clubs, or take longer odds at the sub-
urban courses beforehand, and it is time something
was done to check it. It is an eloquent tribute to
the influence the bookmaker exercises in the game or
business generally. For this mile frivol, Canaque
was easilv favorite, and was backed down
to two’s, with Duke Alwyne a good second at five to
two against. The Duke went to the dogs early, and
Canaque dropped out after the first furlong as far as
backers were concerned, though he did run into
third place, with the second favorite fourth. The
cause of the trouble was O’Neill’s Laggard, who
easily beat everything in sight—barring the second,
Boomalli, who finished a neck behind. Laggard went
out at fives and Boomalli at eights. A great race
for Judastein McDonohue! The same game was
played in the December Stakes, when 20 out of 28 in
the book vanished. This time the public was in
luck’s way, and piled its coin on Woorak, at six
to four against. It wasn’t a race, but a procession,
the favorite having the race practically won after the
first furlong, with only four more to go. He won
easily. In fact, he walked home, five lengths to the
good'. The other gilded plum, the Summer Cup (one
mile five furlongs), drew a crowd of 20 with its lure
of £l5OO added money. The public chose Matouree,
and Donald O’Jacobs said fours. He offered fives
against Alured, and 33 or any other old price against
Barlow, the son of Fortunatus. Then someone
started a run on Coradil, who suddenly hardened
from “anything you like” down to 10’s or B’s.
Alured and Posinatus made the running into the
straight. With two furlongs to go Posinatus was
apparently done brown, and Alured sailed away mag-
nificently till Barlow suddenly thundered alongside.
At the same moment Coradil appeared and Limelight
flashed up on the outside. Then Alured faded, and
the outsider, leaping under whip and spur, shook off
Coradil and just got home. Good old Posinatus, stag-
gering under the top weight, made one more effort
for a place, but Limelight just managed to struggle
into third. It was a skinner.
THE KILKENNY CATS OUTDONE.
After a hair-raising scrap at the Sydney
Stadium McCoy (Vic.) defeats Harry Stone
(U.S.A.). Stone’s trainer, O' Donnell, gets
excited.
On Saturday another 40,000 people who
were probably mostly the same 40,000 people over
again, clattered out to the same course to take part in
the annual meeting of Tattersall’s Club. For the Hurdle
Race top-weight lepper Red Corn, though carrying
12st. 21b., was easily first fancy, and the unbelieving
Jews and infidel Gentiles laid fives against him. He
finished alone, and there was weeping and gnashing
of teeth. The Chelmsford Handicap was a triumph
of the Devil’s number. There were 13 starters, and
No 13 in the book won. His name was Gillallambi,
and that he ran in the interests of the Devil s
brigade was evidenced by the fact that he went out at
16’s The popular fancy was Balustrade, backed
down to twos, but he was beaten for second place
by Tarpan, the son of Tartan. The plum of the day
was the Carrington Stakes, made glorious with the
glitter of 1000 added sovereigns. The only with-
drawal was Nuwara Eliya, and the grey son of
Orzil was well loaded with long-distance money. He
was a popular fancy, as he had finished second in the
same race the previous year. However, as he was
missing, the public rushed Athenic, the three-year-old
son of the imoorted but now-dead Traquair, winner
of the December Stakes in 1912, and the Champagne
Stakes in 1913. In a field of 26 his price was fours,
with Gigandra, Maltchester and Popinjay at eights
and tens the next fancy. Popißfay got away first,
but after a furlong Athenic cut him down and
simply romped home —another walk-in, in f'jct.
Maltchester was second and Lord Liddell third.
Athenic won by a length and ah half, but did not
seem to have been at all extended.
* * * •
At 10 o’clock on Friday night 15 teams of
cyclists (two each) started a 24-hours’ grind at
Sydney Sports Ground. A series of special prizes
made for fast riding, and the first burst came with
one Hammond unwinding a sudden sprint at five
miles. He was closely pursued by the immortal
G. H. Horder, but managed to stall that doughty
rider off the first cash. Thereafter they rode steadily
till in 4hr. 20min. 15sec. 100 miles had been cov-
ered. There was not much encouragement in this;
and, head down, they rode on grimly through the
night, twirling their pedals and chewing gum and
sucking pebbles. Close upon four hours later a
droning voice said 200 miles, but nobody lifted his
head from the bars and whooped. There were still
16 horrible hours to go. When 13 hours had dragged
themselves past, that same monotonous voice said
279} miles. Then someone started to sprint, and
the field woke to life, as it were, and began to
whirl its feet. The time had come to kill off the
weaklings. One man, mounting his machine to re-
lieve his mate, fell and fractured his wrist, and had
to go to the hospital. His mate and he had covered
291 miles, and seeing the task was beyond him, the
uninjured partner wisely gave up. Another man
leaving the track collided with a trainer, and was
too hurt to be able to resume, so his mate also
yielded up the spectre; and another pair, having been
lapped, abandoned the pursuit as hopeless. So there
were left 12 teams of stalwarts battling for the glory
and the lucre. There was a special prize for the
team first past the 400-miles track, and Hammond,
who had beaten Horder for the first “special,” came
again, and led the field over the mark in 19hr. 39min.
When 20 hours had elapsed, the strongest began to
make desperate efforts to break away from the field,
and a series of gruelling struggles took place. At
430 miles two men did get a slight break on the
field, but the indomitable Hammond brought the
bunch level again. At 457 miles Hammond decided
the time had come for him to lead the way. Accom-
panied by two others, he led it promptly, but after
a lap or two the field came roaring up to level once
more, and they reeled round the track together. The
465-miles mark saw Hazleton and Crook make a
dash; but they were soon overhauled. A few minutes
later they dashed out again, only to be once more over-
taken. It was evidently going to be a crowded
finish. With 10 laps to go two men fell, but were
promptly replaced by their waiting team-mates. The
pace slowed down, all hands reserving themselves for
the final streak. It came with the ringing of the bell,
and a wild-cat struggle it was. Positions changed
like lightning. George Horder went to the front,
only to be passed by Henry, with Walcott whirling
on the weather bow. Again the redoubtable Ham-
mond came rushing through ; but Henry flew on, and
Brown also dashed into the front bunch. 1 hey
swung along, almost together. Then Horder flashed
past Henry, and Brown struggled fiercely just behind
Henry, with Hammond bounding close in pursuit.
But a pistol rang out, and they had finished in that
order, having covered 475} miles in the 24 hours.
Although this was the first 24-hours race in Sydney,
Melbourne had one away back in May, 1894, which
was won by G. W. Crisp, who did 401 miles 1408
yards.
* * * *
The V.R.C. committeemen cut a very con-
temptible figure in their crawl-out from the tight
corner into which Frank Meyers forced them. Out-
side of the V.R.C. office every intelligent person who
had studied the story of the Blackpool case knew that
the club’s stipendiary stewards had jumped to false
conclusions in the matter, and that the V.lt.C. com-
mittee, by confirming the disqualification of three
versons and an innocent geegee, in face of the plain
facts which were put before them, had done owner
Meyers an injustice. As the result of his persistency
in taking his case to the law courts, the V.R.C. on
October 18 invited him to come and restate his griev-
ance. More than 10 months of his 12 months dis-
qualification had already passed away, and the new
inquiry was dragged out until the whole term had
elapsed. Then the arrogant V.R.C. committee decided
that “no further action be taken in the matter.
There was no further action that the committee could,
have taken, save to gracefully make an apology to
Mr. Meyers. He had already put the club under
legal restraint as regards the attempt to
deprive him of his membership. His term ot
disqualification had expired. He had for the
first time been able to tackle the stipendiary
stewards personally, and expose the falseness
of the assumptions on which he was judged.
Furthermore, he had been able to confront the
committee with some ugly facts concerning
the unscrupulous endeavor of one of the
club’s agents to suborn certain witnesses for
the defence. The agent in question, being
forced to account for his work, declared
that he alone was responsible for it. Zeal
for the club’s interests had inspired him, he
said, to procure a half-hearted contradiction
of a truthful statement. When pertinacious
Frank Meyers had brought this evidence to
light in the presence of the V.R.C. com-
mittee gentlemen, he had them on the hip.
They were beaten. They knew that the sin
of their too zealous agent had cast a
shadow and that they were sitting in that
shadow. So they did sadly and solemnly
resolve “that no further action be taken in
the matter”! Here ended the Blackpool case.
One result of it has been a revaluation of
the term “suspicious practices,” which previ-
ously amounted in racing courts to much the same
thing as “insulting behavior” in the old police courts.
Pal Brown’s evil luck is almost as great
as Waldemar Holberg’s. He started his Australian
career with a sensational win over Hughie Mehegan,
and has not won a fight since; though, Heaven
knows, he has done all a boxer could do to win. On
Boxing Night he met Mehegan in a return fight at
the Melbourne Stadium, and this time Mehegan won.
It was a very close thing, but Mehegan got the ver-
dict. The Australian had laid himself out to acquire
speed, and succeeded, for from the opening round he
showed pace which for him was. marvellous. In the
beginning Brown made the mistake of mixing it
with the hard-hitting Australian, and got badly pun-
ished, especially about the body. In the long-range
fighting the handsome American boy scored with a
beautiful straight left which drew blood; but Mehegan
would rush to close quarters, where he could hold his
own. In the seventh, Brown all but got his man.
Mehegan was jammed on the ropes, and Brown was
hurling them' in hot and strong, when Mehegan
dropped his guard to hit, and Brown drove m a
terrific left which nearly dropped the Australian.
The gong, however, saved Mehegan, who rocked visi-
bly as he went to his corner. As the scrap went
on, Mehegan’s speed began to die away, and .Brown
commenced to make up his leeway; but in the
opinion of the referee he had not done so when the
battle ended. There was great argument as to the
accuracy of the decision. # #
The largest crowd that has packed itself
into the Stadium at Rusheutter’s Bay (Sydney)
since the roof was put on, was there to see the
long-looked-for McCoy-Stone fight on Boxing Night. All
Jewry was there, and Stone’s dazzling success im-
pelled them to offer five to four on him. It was an
elegant price, and many shrewd Gentiles who were
not blinded by racial prejudice mopped it up at a
great rate when the attendants were. not looking.
Just after the boxers got into the ring Mmahan,
M L A., scrambled through the ropes and commenced
to’ speak. What he said was quite inaudible, but
when he had finished spruiking he handed Stone a
gold medal which glittered wickedly with diamonds.
It was had taste to •make the presentation immedi-
ately before an important fight, with Stone’s oppo-
nent in his corner, looking on. It is understood that
Meagher, M.L.A., was to nave made the presentation,
but his recent elevation made that quite impossible,
so he contented himself with beaming benevolently
from the ringside. However, subsequent events
proved it had no depressing effect on McCoy. Still,
it had been better left undone.
They started cautiously enough, each trying to
feel his way. McCoy sent a couple of investigating
rights towards Stone’s bingey. Stone back-stepped
with delicate alacrity, and then tiptoed in and pied
the left. It was deftly blocked. Before Stone
thought it possible, over came the right —and it
stung. At first McCoy was inclined to let Stone lead ;
but in a few seconds he discovered that Stone, like
most Asiatics, is more dangerous on the offensive
than the defensive, so he went after his man very
determinedly. Thereafter it became a race to see
which could take the offensive first, and McCoy soon
demonstrated that he had the requisite speed to do
the trick. The first round was distinctly McCoy s.
In the second Stone got in a few rights, but McCoy
always sent over the right; and, though Stone was
always retreating, the right invariably overtook him,
and was hard enough to hurt. Halfway through the
second McCoy startled Stone by hooking in a wicked
left, and the mark it made grew steadily more visible.
In the third Stone unfolded his famous kangaroo act,
but the wary McCoy winged him several times while
he was in mid-air, and Stone abandoned it to devote
his attention to the body. Mostly the fairest of
fighters, Stone suddenly began to hold with one arm
and bang the other to the body, and was repeatedly
warned to let go. McCoy never fought so fairly in
his life as he did that night; but whenever Stone
started to rough things he found the Australian
equally willing, and again and again he was literally
punched off and followed with terrific speed. McCoy
was now quite confident —he had got the measure of
his opponent’s speed. He met the American with
vicious counters that Stone could not dodge, and as
Stone would back off McCoy would follow
up, driving for the body, compelling his
opponent to make big, kangaroo-like leaps back-
ward, and so forcing him to the ropes. There
Stone always got it, and got it hard before
he could hang on. In other fights Stone could always
duck out of those hot corners, but in thiß one he
had to hang on for safety. And all the time he held
he punched. In the ninth round he was badly rattled,
and had McCoy followed up he would probably have
scored a knock-out, but just as he realised how dazed
Stone was the gong went. The American was too
flabbergasted to chew his gum.
The culmination came in the 11th round. McCoy
had worked Stone into the south-western corner, and
was dealing out terrible punishment. Stone tried to
duck out, but was beaten back to the ropes. lie
tried to hang on, but was slogged off. McCoy slowed
for a heavy swing. Stone went baresark. He hit
McCoy so fast it was impossible to follow his blows.
Then McCoy realised what was happening, and show-
ered his biows like wind-driven hail. Stone leaped
and smote and smote and smote again. But ever
the white arms of McCoy flashed through the blizzard,
and gave punch for punch. Then McCoy backed off.
Stone sprang at him like a tiger, and kept that
fearsome tornado in full blast. Fifteen thousand
people sprang to their feet and howled like
demons, and stamped and waved their hats.
That vast roar lifted the fighters to more desperate
frenzy. Across the ring they swept, fighting, smash-
ing, McCoy in retreat, Stone in fierce pursuit. Then
for a fraction of a second they ceased, and a great
silence crashed down. McCoy, with a deep breath,
sprang forward, tearing in with lefts and rights.
Stone came in to meet him, and the awful din was re-
newed. It was the most terrific display ever seen
in the Stadium, and quite indescribable. Once more
they swept across the ring, to the delight of the
roaring, howling thousands, Stone in retreat and
McCoy in frenzied pursuit. Then the gong broke
through the din and ended the most wonderful sight
ever seen in the Stadium. The tremendous rally
had lasted almost two minutes by the clock. McCoy’s
cheek was split, and Stone’s lips were swollen and
oozed blood; his cheeks had blotches on them, his
nose showed signs of disrepair, and there were red
splurges on his body where the fists of McCoy had
played a devil’s tattoo. That round had ended
Stone’s chances of victory, for although he fought
gamely and somewhat unscrupulously, the triumphant
Australian was hunting him grimly all the time.
Only in the 14th round did he show signs of coming
back, and that round he won. But it was his last.
Twice the gallant Jew. tried to unfold another rally,
and could not; so, in the end, he for the most part
lust avoided punishment and clung for safety. At
the close of each round he would make a
feeble rally, but without success. At the
end there was only one in it, and referee Scott
placed his hand on McCoy’s head. Then came the
wildest demonstration the Stadium has seen, and
for half a minute McCoy drank the milk of para-
dise.


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO USE YOUR HANDS?
I i
You fully realise the importance of know-
ing how to defend yourself. Because self-
preservation is part and parcel of every form
of life.
You ought to do something to develop your
natural power. Why not learn to box—learn
to use your hands to the best advantage ?
Otherwise the time will surely come when
you will bitterly repent your indecision.
Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then —you’ll wish in vain.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how
to box. I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable
moves known to Ringcraft. The best moves
of the most famous living boxers will form
part of your instruction. If you were
entangled in a mix-up, what a big advantage
you’d have —-what confidence you’d have, and
that’s half the battle. Here is a letter from
one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with
my boxing. I am beginning to feel sure
of myself.' It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Write for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”)BAKER,
272 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Cigars as New
Year Gifts
Reciprocate—Give a
New Year’s gift to
that friend who re-
membered you at
Xmas time. There’s
nothing he would ap-
preciate more than a
box of nice cigars, and
there is no shop where
you could get better
cigars than I sell.
My Illustrated Cata-
log, entitled “A Dis-
criminating {Smoker’s
Guide,” will aid you
in making a satisfac-
tory selection. W rite
to-day for a copy.
My
LA NOVA
a Dutch Cigar de
luxe.
Mild in flavor. Excel-
lent value,
30/- per 100.
Packed in boxes of
25’s, 7/6 per box.
Postage on one box,
6d.; inter-State, Bd.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Actual Size.
1
Automobile Club
of Victoria.
Hill=climbing Contest at
Wildwood, 6/12/ , 13.
19 PLACES GAINED ON
SHELL
BENZINE.
4 PLACES GAINED ON
OTHER SPIRIT.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
w;;.v/£OTj
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
Do you require any
MINING MACHINERY ?
If so,
Why not
try
KRUPP’S
For TIN,
GOLD, SILVER,
LEAD, COPPER,
CATALOGS FROM
and Silver Lead Plants
to treat from Ore
to Bullion.
NOYES BROS.
499-501 Bourke St., Melbourne
115 Clarence Street, Sydney
And at Brisbane and Perth
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
L. & F. CO., UMITED.
Secure Highest Market Rates
for all consignments of Wool,
Wheat, Hides, Skins and Tallow
entrusted to them and render
returns promptly.
m?*’ i
nm
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
The Shoe for You
is the RIGISEY —a Shoe of unlimited com-
fort, with style to suit your taste, and wear
that is highly satisfactory.
The Boot shown is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade,
Made-to-Order style.
Price - 27/6
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf,
25/- and 27/6
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
f
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO„
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
X 7
DUNLOP
o '
<-
«eo + izo
‘What
Tyres
Shall
1 Buy?
This question
often perplexes many
new Motorists, but the
Car Owner who has tried
all th e various makes,
plumps straight
out f0r....
DUNLOP
TYRES
His experience is—
that for Strength,
Quality and Wear,
these reliable Tyres
have no equal, and
you can have the
same satisfaction
if you order
“DUNLOPS”
next time. .
DUNLOP
RUBBER
C 0....
Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth. Brisbane,
Christchurch and Wellington. NX
The protest of “Long Willie” :
All my years I have endeavored to live an upright
life, and I believe I am justified in considering
myself somewhat better than most men. When, by
constant self-denial and an incessant striving for
grace, one has attained this st.ate of mind, you, in
your vulgar scorn, term him a “Wowser.” Shame on
you! Shame that you should level against incor-
ruptible gentlemen the term “Wowsers” ! Shame
especially that your ribald derision should be directed
at their praiseworthy attempts to suppress the liquor
traffic by promulgating the benefits of local option!
Sir, on behalf of those whom you derisively
describe as Wowsers, I trust you will allow me to
enter a protest and a defence by describing the
splendid work these Wowsers — Wowsers, I say, Wow-
sers—are doing in Westralia.
All our efforts have been directed against the pro-
prietors of those licensed sinks called hotels. “Eat
more fruit,” we say, “and drink less beer.” Conse-
quently we give our blessing to the vendors of the
innocent apple and the innocuous banana. How
pleasant it is to see our young people, instead of
turning into what you vulgarly call a pub, bend
their footsteps into a fruitshop for, let us say, a
lemon squash! They are greeted respectfully, and
conducted to a room partitioned off from the main
shop and furnished simply with small tables and
chairs. Their orders are taken and served, and they
depart refreshed. Often have I seen our young
people emerging from these places looking very cheer-
ful by reason of the kindly attention they have re-
ceived. Indeed, I have frequently seen them so de-
lighted that they have danced all over the pavement
out of sheer joy.
Alas, it is true that many of these shops are
licensed to sell wine; but why should they choose
wine when, as I have seen, they come forth full of
joy in the lemon squash they have consumed?
Whatever derogatory comments you may be in-
clined to make, I trust you will at least have the
fairness to publish my heartfelt defence of the
Wowser for the stand he is making against the evils
of the drink traffic, which we surely are abolishing
out of the land.


Free
Play
sd
V/
Vf;
Wa
%
A
r a>
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
Sold. Everywhere
21-
Guaranteed^
<?0J!
©
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Must be Stamped
on Buckle.
sdf
sdf
ONE
Cartridge
DOES—
F)R the convenience of the man
who is many miles from the big
towns, we have Special Colt re-
volvers made to shoot the same car-
tridges as the Winchester Rifles.
This saves the trouble of having to
carry two kinds of Ammunition.
The Calibres are .32,
.38 and .44, and these,
cartridges are procurable
in any little town
throughout the
civilized world
sdf
-for
BOTH
=5*
The PRICES of the REVOLVERS are —
.32 cal. 4in. barrel £5; .38 ca . 5% in.
barrel, £6/15/-; .44 cal. 7/4 In. barrel,
£7/10/-.
Winchester Rifles— Half or full Maga
zine—Carbine length, 20 in. barrell 60/-.
Full Rifle length, 24 in. barrel. 62/6.
Catalogs.
Free
Alcock & Pierce
318 !Lt. Collins
Street, MELB.
THE LONE HAND”
for GOOD STORIES 8 BRIGHT ARTICLES.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
His Master’s Voice
sd
Introducing the World-famed
Singers to Your Home.
How envied would be the hostess who had at her command the great singers
of the world!
Yet, at the disposal of every hostess is an exact duplication of these famous
singers’ voices—a perfect rendering such as may easily lead you to imagine
you were listening to the artistes in person.
“His Master’s Voice” Gramophone Records, exclusively, reproduce the
voices of Caruso, McCormack, Scotti, Farrar, Melba, Tetrazzini, Clara
Butt, Kirkby Lunn, Ruffo, Chaliapine and innumerable other notabilities of
opera, stage and music-hall.
Write to-day for a complete Record Catalogue—you will be surprised at the
great variety of artistes, songs and masterpieces of music listed therein.
Free from any accredited dealer or from the
Sole Concessionaires for
The GRAMOPHONE GO., LTD.,
163 Pitt Street : Sydney.
fs
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
df
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splehdid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdf
sd
Dinneford's
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
WHAT IS
&
■Jfc
TlfflU
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt § Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Sons of N. S. Wales politicians have little
luck m getting into the Assembly and less
m holding on. Varney Parkes and Frank
1 arnell, sons of one-time Premiers, were
among the , rejects the other day, though
Macartney Abbott, a son of ex-Speaker
Abbott, won the Upper Hunter. Parkes has
good abilities, but he has treated Parliament
as a sort, of by-product, while Farnell has
looked on it only as a good place to go when
ram threatened. Of the many N. S. Wales
I renders not one has left a son who carries
on the political traditions. Charlie Cowper
•nearly did it, but his boy eventually pre-
ferred the steady job of Sheriff and super-
vising executioner. See had a son who one
time talked Parliament, and Lyne’s son
might have been induced to try on his
father’s boots, but the occasions passed.
“Locust” on Judges’ millinery:—
Street costume for Judges in N.S.W. has become
less important since the passing of the glorious days
of Justice G. B. Simpson. No longer do our Honors
do the block with the strict assiduity with which
they sentenced prisoners or gave judgments on pre-
liminary objections. Cohen (dead) and “G. 8." (re-
tired) were the last of the block promenaders, and
the shimmer of their silk hats, the exquisite cut of
their frock coats and the beauty of their gloves are
now but a memory of beauty like an Arabian Nights
dream. The High Court Judges are sac-suiters and
soft-hatters to a man. They have let their street
costumes run to seed. Barton, Acting-C.J., is the
only one who keeps up the forensic tailoring tradi-
tions, and even he has whittled them down to a
morning coat and a hard-hitter hat. Griffith, C.J.,
Higgins and Isaacs are all for sac suits in the
streets, liven Rich, who was a perfect tailor’s model
in the old days at the Equity Bar and on the Bench
of his State, has been contaminated by the atmo-
sphere of sac-suitism. The N.S.W. State Judges—
Ferguson, Gordon, Sly, Simpson (A. H.), Harvey and
Pring—are all sticklers for the silk hat, but have
abandoned the frock coat for the mere morning coat,
and have been known to wear even a soft felt
when walking out for lunch. As for Victoria,
it is said that injunctions to restrain puisne
Judges from wearing sac suits are issued every
morning by the Chief Justice, who, as is well known,
sleeps in his frock coat and silk hat.
Arthur Robinson, the somewhat drab ex-
M.L.A. for Dundas (Vic.), ex-M.H.R. for
Wannon (Vic.), and M.L.C. in the wide
shoes of the late Henry Skinner, belongs to
a family not noted for its exterior charm.
Brother Lionel, now a member of the Lon-
don Stock Exchange, and remembered as part
owner of The Victory, which won a Mel-
bourne Cup, looked more like a seedy turf-
tipster, when he was on the Melbourne Ex-
change, than a very wealthy speculator.
However, although lie is’ not personally dis-
tinguished, Arthur,' in spite of his inherited
drabness, has succeeded in becoming a self-
made ladies’-man; and whenever the
Women’s League hands him the opportunity,
he is to be found affably champing among
the tea and cakes, and gallantly giving more
or less correct political information to
swarms of old ladies.
“Alamon’s” instance of the muddle in the
North: —
Just one sample of the waste of public money in
the Northern Territory. A man arranged with the
Government to open up and work a mine that had
long been, abandoned. The Government, was to finance
him, and receive repayment if the experiment turned
out well. Among other things, this man dismantled
the house he had been living in (it was Government
property), and removed it to the mine, re-erecting
it there. The total cost of dismantling, removing
the material 12 miles, and re-erecting was no less
than £5O. Yet not 200 yards from where the house
is now standing: there is a substantial building on
the mine ground, and under offer to the Government
for £lO. Do you wonder that we up here begin to
take a gloomy view of the outlook, dreading that the
Australian people will be tired out before half the
necessary things are done?
“B.B.”: Norman Angell has been telling
the Englishers that Australia’s fear of inva-
sion by Japan is all nonsense. In an ad-
dress at London recently he said: —
The thing is a physical impossibility. Their coun-
try is not like France, where the Germans could
descend upon the capital and paralyse the whole
economic life of the nation. Suppose the Japanese
did descend upon Canberra —I think that is the name
of the place—that would not trouble the Australians
very much.
Why, of course not. If any dashed Japs
tried to descend upon Canberra we’d simply
get Bill Lang to upper-cut the beggars one
after the other as they climbed out of their
balloon!
A hurried Melbourne doctor, faced with 70
out-patients and tantalised by agreeable
social invitations, made a brave rush through
his work the other day. One of the “outs,”
a stolid Chinaman, was hurried on to the
operating table for post-nasal operation. The
Chow protested in pigeon-Englisli all the
way. Nevertheless, the operation was per-
formed swiftly and neatly. It was only after
the bandages were finally fixed that doctor
and nurses discovered John to be merely a
nal of the real sufferer, come to help his
brother through the hospital ordeal.
Exasperated residents —along the routes to
the big wool-stores in particular—have been
calling on the inert Brisbane Council to put
a stop to the use of noisy waggon-brakes;
for the Master Carriers’ Association, having
been spoken to gently on the subject, says it
will do nothing till compelled by law. Now
Judge Chubb comes to the aid of the dis-
tracted citizens; he announced in the
Supreme Court the other day that if, at the
end of the two months’ vacation, the nuisance
has not abated, he will simply stop the traffic
in the neighborhood of the Supreme Court.
Peppery old Judge Harding did stop the
traffic along George-street on at least one
occasion. He was not the sort to stand any-
thing that might result in a prisoner being
acquitted or hanged because of something
the jury missed seeing or hearing. Once,
when trying a case at Bundaberg, where the
courthouse stands alongside the only road to
the north side, he ordered that all traffic
should cease. The court official who went
out to stop it fled back before a storm of
abuse, and told the judge there was no hope.
But he went out again, in the recklessness
of despair, prepared to lie down in front of
the vehicles, if necessary, for Harding had
given him the option of making the wheels
stand still or of being “dealt with” by the
majesty of the law. Another time when
Harding was on the bench at Bundaberg
something went wrong with the gas. An
official rang up old-man Fleming, father of
the present owner of the local gasworks. The
old man’s selection of blessings is a tradition
in Bundaberg even to this day. “His Honor
wants more light? Well, you can tell his
H0n0r....” It isn’t recorded whether the
unfortunate bailiff got 24 hours for the lack
of light or seven years for telling Harding
what Fleming said.


.
/^C
t" )
XJ
WO
G.E. Co. (U.S.A.) Desk or Wall
Type Fan Motor.
Cooling Breezes
l. 7
BEFORE the dawn of electricity, people on warm,
sultry days wished for cooling breezes, and
waited. Nowadays the comfort of a cooling
breeze can be obtained by touching a switch.
Fan Motor.
In houses wired for the electric light, General Electric Co. (U.S.A.) Electric Fans can be attached
to any electric=lamp holder as easily as the electric lamp itself.
They require less current than an ordinary electric incandescent lamp, and are equipped with a
three=speed control, so that the air flow can be regulated from a gentle zephyr to a hard blow.
General Electric Co. (U.S.A.) Electric Fans may be used in any position, and are stocked for use
on ceilings, walls or desks in all voltages and sizes.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Agents
ADELAIDE, S.A.Unbchaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
PERTH, W.A.— Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
BRISBANE, Q.—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland and Wellington.
filing ing for MoreS'
A
Bird’s
Custard
stands alone in its absolute
purity, delicious flavor and
rich, egg like creaminess.
Has stood the test of time
k Over 70 years ’ success, a
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Only the very finest
cream milk, from the
finest cows and the
CMJTIOM
111
IN VM-
W
0 '
M' L *
malted
ENO^
W( K$
Ask lor
Horlick's
at the Soda
Fountain,
richest pastures of Buckinghamshire, together with
the addition of valuable Cereals, are used to pro-
duce Horlick’s Malted Milk, the greatest
HEALTH FOOD-DRINK.
All ages benefit by taking it. It
gives health and strength where
others fail. It is easy to make, re-
quires no cooking and is delicious.
—Of all Chemists and Stores
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LOHE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE.
Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all eases
of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after suffering
over 40 years.
Made and sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
PRICE 3/= PER BOX, or a COURSE
of 8 BOXES £l, Post Free.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
THE Australian Magazine—THE TONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6rl
WOLF
Patent
Superheated
LOCOMOBILE
THE LAST WORD
IN
MODERN SUPERHEATED STEAM ENGINE CONSTRUCTION.
In regard to durability, reliability, steady running
and adaptability, Wolf Superheated Steam Locomo-
biles at least equal the best steam engine or turbine
plants of several 1000-h.p.
Their superiority in economy is attained by their
faultless construction, and in obviating the many
losses, including radiation, etc., which are unavoid-
able in steam plants having separate boiler and
engine.
Over Suction Gas Plants, Oil and Gas Engines, Wolf
Locomobiles possess the following advantages:—
Cheaper cost of fuel; great reserve of power, allow-
ing overloads up to 50 per cent.; steadiness in run-
ning under extreme and sudden variation of load; use
of any kind of fuel besides coal; utilisation of steam
for heating or manufacturing purposes; easy attend-
ance, even by unskilled hands; Absolute Reliability
and Greater Durability; greater simplicity and con-
tinuously maintained economy also at lower loads.
7 '
Mi
i mm m
mm M
2sws ||
HP
' .
K
. i MB
Wst‘ V
«*->
r
THE EXCELLENT RESULTS
which Wolf Locomobiles always have given in every
kind of industry, even in the remotest corners of the
world, and often under the most unfavorable condi-
tions, offer to the carefully discriminating expert
unsurpassed advantages as to
RELIABILITY, DURABILITY, & CONTINUOUSLY
MAINTAINED ECONOMY OE HIS PRIME MOVER.
At the end of 1912 there were at work, to the utmost
satisfaction of their owners in: —
Woodworking Trades
Ceramic Trades
Iron and Metal Works
Building Trades
Electric Lighting and Power
Stations
Milling Trades
Mining Trades
Paper and Printing Works. .
Quarries
Textile Industries
2212 Wolf Locomobiles
1641 „
1621
509
1775
1617
907
25(5
191
426
Total Output: One Million H.P.
Australian Representatives
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


fsd
fs
“3-in-one” Oil
Keeps Your Bicycle
In Perfect Order!
Steering, bearings, chain, brakes,
frame, bell, seat—there isn’t a part of
the machine “Three-in-On©”
won’t benefit !
“ 3-in-One” Oil is a perfect
lubricant. It prevents rust or tarnish
on plated surfaces in any weather;
polishes the frame ; keeps the seat
soft and pliable.
Free from grease—never thickens
nor collects di t.
Obtainable everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Oil Can.
WRITE FOR FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE.
REID & REID,
Australasian Agents,
s. 8*- E, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
c>
iO-MAINM
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
The Edison
Dictating
Machine.
Begin the New Year right and instal
an Edison Dictating Machine in the
office.
It is first aid to the overtaxed execu-
tive, for, by using this machine, the
day’s pile of correspondence can be
worked off very quickly.
No shorthand writers are required
where these machines are used, and
your letters, being answered on the
spot, are likely to have more snap
and originality in them.
Write to-day for particulars. A book-
let which gives full particulars of the
Edison Dictating Machine will be sent
post free to any address.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
Dept. 8., 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
The
Marie
Permanent
Hair
Stain
(Registered).
BE YOUTHFUL EVER!
df
This well-known and reliable Permanent Stain has
given complete satisfaction to thousands of men
and women throughout Australia who have used it
on hair, moustache and beard. Not one failure.
Unaffected by surfing, tonics, washing or wearing.
Non-injurious to the most delicate hair or skin.
Impossible to go patchy. Simple to apply. Light
Brown, Medium Brown, Dark Brown and Black.
PRICE 10/6, 6d. postage (12 months’ supply,).
Money returned if proved unsatisfactory. All
Toilet Requisites stocked. Send me your hairwork.
One and Only Address:
MARIE VAN BRAKKEL,
46 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Hotel Australia).
No connection with any other firm trading under
the name of Van Brakkel. (Register all letters,).
A SMILE OF SATISFACTION
aahfe:
sdf
OVER 1000 TONS OF LEMONS
have been used in the manufacture
of " Lemot," and it is now sold almost
all over the world. I
Don’t Lose Your Profits
fegop STOPt
£5
PD
cusTot^Si
<o
m
z^orrYM
SSSfsTCm
£POd*
GOODS
fis
&P A<=>SISTA
SEE THAT THE BOTTOM HOOP IS STRONG.
A National Cash Register system will stop the leaks through which
your profits escape; will increase your trade; and increase your profits.
National Cash Registers take care of your credit business as well as your cash.
If you are a wise business man you know that what you need is
PROTECTION against the leaks and losses that are liable to occur in any
business. National Cash Registers give PROTECTION. They pay for
themselves and then pay you. A National Cash Register is not an expense,
it is an investment.
Write us for information as to how we can save YOU money in
YOUR business.
REMEMBER.
We guarantee to furnish a better Cash Register for
less money than any other concern in the world.
THE NATIONAL GASH REGISTER COMPANY
Of Australasia f Limited,
Head Office: 119 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane.
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Paul’s Chambers, Bolton street, Newcastle.
281 Murray Street, Perth,
57 Brisbane Street. Launceston.
80 Collins Street, Hobart.
m
STEWART DAWSON’S
For Useful and Beautiful Gifts
The Gift of a useful article —such as one of these effective Candle-
sticks^—is a wise act. It has all the decorative effect of an ornament,
together with the usefulness that makes it of permanent value. We
are the actual Manufacturers, and sell to you at FIRST COS1 7
PRICES. .
1
yii
i
m
G63l3.—Finest Quality
Silver Plated CANDLE-
STICK, 5 -inches high,
22/0
No. 353. —Silver Plated
Chamber CANDLE-
STICK,
G6312—01d Sheffield Die
Silver Plated CANDLE-
STICK, 3i inches high,
15/-
GsllB—Silver Plated
CANDLESTICK, Thistle
Design,
13/0 pair.
We have an Extensive Stock of Gift Jewellery and Plate embody-
ing Australasian Designs. Write for Souvenir Catalogue.
Strand Corner, 412 George St., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 73 to 81 Regent Street, W.; and 19 to 21 Hatton Garden. E.C.
[.73/6
8
“Harrison 0.”: Commenting on the fact that the
Williamson people have imported 10 “show” girls,
“Stalls” asks (B. 4/12/’l3) : “In the name of
Heaven, why ?” I dunno; but certainly it is up
to “the firm” to do something to improve the
present beauty-standard of its choruses. I agree
with “Stalls” when he says that “no female imports
equalled in beauty the Beard sisters”; but how
many angels of this class are there in the William-
son shows now ? When Molly Beard recently trekked
Fogwards, the last remaining beauty of the New
Comics, Nance Anderson, who used to occupy the
other end of the front row, had to be transferred
to another company, because there was no one else
in the chorus to balance her tall and beauteous
figure. Fresh young voices are still a feature of
the J.C.W. choruses, but most of the fresh young
faces, alas! have vanished. I am not suggesting
that female loveliness is locally at a low ebb, but
apparently it is not so anxious to go on the stage
as it once was, and a good deal of it that used to
be in the chorus has found it more profitable to
get a lob at something else. On the face of it, the
simplest way to raise the standard of beauty among
the “show girls” would seem to be to offer better
wages to the local lady, instead of bringing females
from the other end of the world. Connoisseurs
hereabouts have still painful recollections of a couple
of the alleged beauties imported about three years
ago for “The Cay Gordons.”
“0.K.”: The pretentious piffle of Amurkan figura-
tive speech soon gets on the nerves of any-
body who owns such things. Americans them-
selves, seemingly, have no nerves, or they would
rebel against the ’Murkanese which is presented on
the stage as smart, national dialect. For example,
take the dialogue of “The Chorus Lady” melo-
drama. Where is the humor in such inapt expres-
sions as “handing out a smile” ? ’Murkan verna-
cular, however, delights in “handing out” and “pass-
ing round” all impalpable things. Slang is gener-
ally weak; but curt slang is preferable to tedious
distortion of language, or misplacement of common-
place terms. The first objection to the modern
development of ’Murkanese is, indeed, its wordiness.
Whereas a fugitive Yank used to “mizzle” or “scoot”
he is now said to “make his get away,” which is
simply a clumsy distortion of language.
“Starwazer”: I see it set forth that Harry Lauder
claims to have derived great advantage from his
early experiences with a gad-about concert co., to
which he acted as bill-poster, door-keeper, scenic
artist, beer-carrier, office boy and lamp cleaner, in
addition to contributing two frivolous songs each
evening. Lauder says this experience taught him
the value of money! Taught him ? And Lauder so
Scotch that he grows plaid freckles!
“H. 0.”: The hurling of invective at the Male Brute
is one of the surest methods of winning applause from
melodramaniacs of both sexes. The most loudly-
cheered oration in “The Nightie Side of London,” at
Melbourne Princess’s, is one in which a lady of un-
blemished wickedness,- after inveighing at length
against my unhappy sex, brings her peroration to a
head by declaring: “Man is at heart a profligate, a
liar and a coward.” On the night I attended, several
chocolate-consuming angels, who had allowed their
own particular profligates to pay for their seats and
sundries, positively squealed their approval, and the
faithful hounds in the seats beside them joined in.
Personally I nearly threw a crowbar at the oratress,
only in the first place I didn’t want to hurt her
feelings, and in the second place, I didn’t have a
crowbar with me at the time.
The Paris correspondent of London Referee writes
of the difference between French and English girls in
concerted movement. “While one French chorus girl
will be excellent and one dancing girl will show in-
telligence and anything else the management and
the costumier like to make her show, a group of four,
or 12, or 20 girls on the Paris stage find it impos-
sible to move and act in perfect time. In the big
staircase act in the revue at the Folies Bergere there
is only one line of girls which comes down that
staircase in perfect time. It is composed of young
ladies, all pretty, all very much alike, and all from
Manchester.” And all probably from the school of
Tiller, the disciplinarian who has turned out dozens
of sets of “Empire Girls” for the vaudeville stage.
“Private Boxer”: Lewis Waller seems to have
struck almost everything but luck in this continent.
First it was the Sydney epidemic of vaccination,
which played ancient Henry with his other Henry,
and did no good for his other bills. About the first
thing he struck in Melbourne was a tram, which he
ran into one rainy night with his motor-car. Slow
as Melbourne trams are, this: one was swift enough
to retaliate, and the mummer retired hurt. Before he
had recovered he found himself sued for damages by
a passenger on the dummy, who claimed that his
nose had been permanently injured in the disturb-
ance. He wanted £249 "to straighten things; and
though Waller.paid £45 into court, the jury awarded
the plaintiff £57 9s. and costs. Now it’s surely
up to the well-graced actor to strike oil, and he’s
more likely to do it with his “Beaucaire,” now in
rehearsal, than with anything else in his equipment.
“Circle”: There is a very intense voung-man
balladist now singing on the Rickards circuit, and
from him I’ve learned the meaning of Kipling’s
line in “Mandalay”: “And the dawn comes up
like thunder outer China, ’cross the Bay.’ When
this part of the song is reached, the man at the
bass drum works his sticks rapidly, and makes a
sound like a Sydney tram at top speed, while the
distinguished singer closes his eyes in an agonised
manner and puts one hand on his temple. I know
now that the noise of the dawn being trundled into
position is almost unbearable.
Oswald Stoll, the Melbourne-born man who runs
the London Coliseum and a score of variety theatres
in the British provinces, has been telling the story
of his life. He was born alongside the Yarra in 1866 ;
parents, Irish—mother, the daughter of a Dublin
builder; father, a graduate of Trinity College, who
became an architect and an engineer. Stoll does
not remember much about Melbourne, having left it
for Liverpool at an early age. His stepfather be-
came proprietor of the Parthenon Music Hall in that
city, and Oswald drifted into the business before he
was out of his teens. Asked what gave him his start
he put it in three words : “Large pictorial posters.”
“0.K.”: Leila Doubleday, the Melbourne girl violin-
ist who is now quite grown-up, gave what is termed
a “successful recital” in London the other night.
Nobody who knows Leila Doubleday, or has heard of
her talent, would be likely to suspect her of giving
an Mnsuccessful recital. The question is, has she
made a name for herself ? “Favorable press notices
of the young artist’s technique and ability” are worth
only as much as they will bring her in public noto-
riety, and musical criticism in the newspapers is,
nowadays, so generally dishonest, and so absurdly dis-
honesty that even the ignorant remain unimpressed
by it. Leila Doubleday seemingly has not been lucky
thusfar. She has not received the right kind of
boost at the psychological moment when Fame hap-
pens to be on the spot, trumpet in hand.
“Machete”: In a recent “Poverty Point” par refer-
ence was made to the fact that playwright Henry
Arthur Jones was involved in trquble with one
Whichelo, a tanner, the casvs belli being that the
objectionable individual of Jones’s latest play was
also a tanner, and his name Whichelo. For many
years one of the best-known citizens of Toowoomba
(Q.) bore the same unusual label, and he was a
tanner, too. Either there’s something in a name, or
else coincidence has been working overtime.
“Blue Mask”: How many women show-managers
are there in Australasia? I’ve heard of one or two
being on the road with their own moving-picture
outfits (I’m certain of one in North Queensland),
but I know only a single instance of a woman man-
aging a city business. That was at Christchurch
(M.L.), where, up to a couple of weeks ago, Mrs.
Millington was in the chair at His Majesty’s,
where Hayward’s Pictures are located. The
other day she was moved on to Ashburton, to shake
up the firm’s business in that allegedly “dry”
centre.
Gregan McMahon, who was always a good “make-
up” for a character part, has developed an excep-
tional talent for disguising himself. Photos, of
Gregan in two of his latest Repertory parts show two
truthful types of man, neither of whom puts the
actor’s identity away. Repertory play-manusing gives
him opportunity to form a non-theatrical conception
of every part, and time to live with it before he
presents jt on the stage.


Splendid Vindication
of the
Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited
By the Report presented to the Government of
Victoria by the Inspectors appointed by them.
IN the latter portion of last year certain persons petitioned Parliament alleging that the
Society, amongst other things, was financially unsound and fraudulently conducted.
As a result, the Government of Victoria appointed two Inspectors to thoroughly
investigate the affairs of the Society. After an investigation extending over twelve
months they reported, stating that every charge had been disproved.
The following are some extracts from their own summary of the report:
(a) We are satisfied that, at the date of our investigation, the Society was
solvent and able to meet all its liabilities, both immediate and prospective.
(/>) We are strongly of opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mismanage-
ment and incapacity made against the Directors and Managers in the
petition presented to Parliament in September last, are wholly unjustified.
( c ) We have checked the actuarial valuation of the Society made by the
Actuary as at 31st December, 1911, and find jt to be substantially correct.
(d) We are of opinion that the business is now being conducted on sound
principles, that the policy which is being pursued should have the effect of
further reducing the business costs, and that, if the confidence of the public
is retained, the results in the future should be materially better than they
have been in past years.
(e) In our opinion the investments of the Society are now, and for some years
past have been, made on sound principles.
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
is now the only Life Assurance Office in Australasia that has had
its affairs investigated by Parliament, which, in itself, is a
GUARANTEE OF SOLVENCY.
the COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE transacts all Classes of Life and Accident
Assurance f insuring MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN .
r
PREMIUMS RANGE from ONE PENNY
CHIEF OFFICE FOR NEW SOUTH WALES : 28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors : Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
Hon. BRUCE SMITH, K.C., M.H.R.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.


Shipping.
Pm and 0 M BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy,
t Passengers intending to sail per Berrima will
need to make immediate application for berths.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking, Public Companies, &c.
Minimum
Deposit.
ON
FRIDAY
EVENING
£5OO
Interest
Limit.
take a portion of your pay to the local
Branch of the Government Savings Bank.
Even 1/- will open an account and put you
on the road to saving.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
118 BRANCHES and OVER 500
AGENCIES IN THE STATE.
51 Per
2 Cent.
Interest on
First £3OO
This Bank has
no Agencies at
Post Offices.
Head Office :
li Moore Street,
SYDNEY.
J. 11. Davies, Secretary
3 Per
Cent.
On Excess
to £5OO
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PHILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: .1. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (30th June, 1913) ..£1,195,398
RESERVE FUND £25,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydne3”.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly. Esq., LL.D. ; Chas. H.
Myles, Esq.; Mark Sheldon, Esq. ; Arthur S.
Barton, Esq. ; Frank N. Yarwood, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
tvorld. A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up . . • • ■ • 413,418 0 0
Reserve . ■ • • - • ■ • 142,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial lilutual Gife
ASSURANCE society LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability ; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretan
Shipping;.
XT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
oJI IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-: 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOHMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
♦The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ »B€RD€€N LIN€.
L)urban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
tTriple Screw Turbine.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 CSecond-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. & 0. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables. Ac., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAT
TOWNSVILLE
* CAIRNS
(*Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).
NORTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 3
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Jan. 7
Leaves Sydney Jan. 10
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. anil W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (80U0 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 3
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Jan. 10
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast).
A Charming Combination
Tour of 33 Days.
S.S. “Matunga,”
JANUARY 5.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Yule Island,
Samarai, Woodlark Island.
£2O.
sd
The SOLOMONS
(For Rest and Health).
35 DAYS TRIP.
S.S. “Mindini,”
JANUARY 10.
Brisbane, Tulagl, Aola, Qizo,
Faisl, Guadalcanar, etc.
£2O
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NFW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
£2*
saf&Z
£3,500,000
. £2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350.000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
"Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq. _
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaurin, ivt., M.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; AVilliam Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up ..£1,750,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,630,000 0 0
Reserve Capital . • 1,750,000 0 0
£5,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon H. E. Rater, M.L.C. •• Deputy-Chairman.
Hon H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener. •
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Sank of Dent 2 ealand -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
. Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up
Uncalled Capital .. ••
Reserve Fund and Undivided 1 rohts
£1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
1,418,117
CHANTS DRAFTS IS:
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-Up £538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. .. 159,054
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773,861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -
Gen Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each moijth.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z ,S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to :
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S HAR-
BOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer. £4 2s. Gd.
For Guide and all particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
fsd
Z<3w Po/ncj
&r /ni/entors
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing your invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential; all that is necessary at first is to
give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
P A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (7713
tons), Wednesday,
Jan. 7 and Feb. 4.
T.S.S. WANDILLA (7755
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Jan. 17 and Feb. 14.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINCKA, Jan. 3.
WOLLOVVRA, Jan. 10.
MARLOO, Jan. 17.
GRANTALA, Jari. 24.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTJRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
♦New triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabms-de*
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE.
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE
SYDNEY. .
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
JANUARY 28, 1914
FEBRUARY 4, 1914
FEBRUARY 10, 1914
FEBRUARY 14, 1914
Third-Class.
Saloon.
Fares to London: £4O to £45. £l6/16/- to £lB/18/
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck Amidships,
including Lounge and Smoke Room.
Third-Class accommodation situated almost Amid-
ships, consisting of two- and four-berth Cabins. Third-
Class passengers supplied with fresh provisions from
cool chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets .issued via Cape and/or Suez Route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy. , ,
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
TURNBULL MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera.”
“Riverina,” “Victoria”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH ii ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WES'
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks ..
effeQted on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Kruschen
? Salts x
Now sold by Chemists throughout tue commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, vlarenca Street, SYDNEY.


Hotels, &c.
feai
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Business Notices.
fs
. ’<
ill) HIM!
■IIIIIIIMIII
iiiih l
IT
V
infiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
•~'DOES -
KILL COCKROACH^
PROCURABLE FROM:
George Gough & Son, Ltd., Bris-
bane.
H. H. Groth & Co., Sydney.
London Pharmacy, Ipswich, Q’land
G. 11. Smith, Townsville, ~
Lomas & Co., Warwick, ~
Jack & Co., Dalby, ~
Bryant & McLean, Roma, ~
E. S. Hale, Bundaberg, ~
Newbery & Shambler, Gympie, ~
Peak & Co., Toowoomba, ~
Williams, Ltd., Rockhampton, ~
Lamberts, Ltd., Mackay, ~
Alex. Campbell & Sons,
Maryborough, ~
And all reliable Storekeepers throughout
Australasia.
Acents wanted in West & South Australia.
Write to GOUGH’S, BRISBANE.
INFLAMATION
of the Knee
CURED BY
Solomon
Solution
“Some time ago I suffered from
a swollen knee. Constant walking
on the hard pavements caused
iiillamation to set in. I consulted
a doctor, but without relief. A
friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION. I am pleased to say I did,
with the gratifying result that
after a few applications I was
cured and have had no return of
the pain since.”
(Signed) J. J. I,lovd.
South Melbonrne,
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Store-
keepers and Chemists; post free
for 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke St., Melbourne
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
< look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
df
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
sdfsd
Bank of Hustualia
SYDNEY
Branches are open for the transaction of GENERAL BANKING
New South Wales—Sydney. Federal Capital—Canberra. Victoria—elb ol urnie.
Queensland —Brisbane. Rockhampton, and Townsville. >TT fouth cm
W T estern Australia—Perth. Tasmania —Hobart. And at 36-38 NEW BROAD ST., Bo .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated
collected. Letters of credit and circular notes issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiate
forwarded for collection. Banking and Exchange business of every description transacted within
the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. a .„.
Branches are open at 3 Moore Street. Sydney; 317 Collins Street. Melbourne; Queen Street,
Brisbane; Royal Exchange. 96 King William Street, Adelaide; St. George*S J-errace
Perth; Elizabeth Street, Hobart; and Canberra (Federal Capital), and 1900 Agencies at
Post Offices which issue Money Orders in the Australian Commonwealth and Papua,
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily, and noon Saturday.
All Branch Offices are open for deposits and withdrawals on hnday, i to J p.m.
Withdrawals on demand may be effected at any office within the Commonwealth.
1/- Minimum Deposit. 3 % Rate of Interest on all Deposits up to £3OO.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. August, 1913. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy ancl Delightful Climate. Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars,
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
m
‘‘l’m an Old Hand
at the Game—*
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS,
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
And you can take it from me that
Banks’ is the place for the Tools in
our Line. You get the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 2/-
ELECTRIGIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND BICK IRONS.
TUBE AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street , Sydney.
Also at 391 Bourko Street, Melbourne.
Those GUINEA CLOCKS
have arrived again, and this time with further improve-
ments.
The last lots were snapped up at once, and the factory
cannot turn them out fast enough.
Reliable, High-grade, Exquisitely-finished Carriage
Clocks in Leather Cases.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
2 years without charge, breakages excepted.
They are the most astounding value in Clocks ever
offered in Australia.
They are in Solid Leather Cases.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Clock House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
r
u >
FAIRFAX »*OetRT3
Gilt Lacquer and Glass Side,
4in. high, wide, in case,
£l/1/-
SHIFTS
SIX TONS
WITH
ONE HAND
EASILY.
Such is the power
of the “BUNYIP”
FOREST DEVIL.
wv
m
V
BONYIP FORgamj
This marvellous machine uproots the biggest tree in 15 minutes
with very little exertion. It pulls away stumps and boulders and
pays for itself over and over again. It is so simple that a child can
work it, and saves £5 on every acre cleared. Be sure and send for
fuller details.
John Cooper Sons,
All Farming Machinery,
287-289 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST STOIUES written in Australia appear in THE
LONE HAND each month. Price Sixpence.
Deaf People
Hear Whispers
With Common-Sense Ear Drums
“Wireless ’Phones for the Ears.”
For twenty years the Common-Sense
Ear Drums have been giving good hear-
ing to hundreds of thousands of deaf
people. Every condition of deafness or
defective hearing is being
helped and cured, such as
Catarrhal Deafness, Relaxed
or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing
Sounds, Perforated or Parti-
ally Destroyed Drums, Drums
wholly Destroyed, Discharge
from Ears. No matter how
long standing the case may
be, there is hope of good hear-
ing for all the afflicted deaf.
fsd
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of soft,
sensitised material, comfortable and safe to
wear. They are out of sight when worn, and
easily adjusted by wearer.
Good hearing brings cheerfulness, comfort and
sunshine into the life of the lonely deaf. The
total cost is £l—why not order to-day?
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Arlington Chambers,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit containing a pair of
Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note.
If a Bank Note or Sovereign is sent, you must
register it.
Abbey
Sboes
Every careful dresser appreciates
the high-class appearance of Abbey
Shoes.
The style, comfort and long-wear-
ing qualities of Abbey Footwear
are equally as satisfactory as their
fine appearance.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
Made-to-Order style. All Patent
Derby Bal., Leather Lined, 32/6.
Same style in Highest-grade Dark
Tan Willow Calf, 32/6.
Postage extra.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Write for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Vi
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/C.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.


f
Black, 16/6
Tan, 17/6
Post 1/- extra.
NEXT TIME YOU BUY RIDING BOOTS, GET
“Wallaby Emperors”
Because of the Comfort they give.
For the man who spends most of his waking hours ! . n
the saddle this model was specially designed. It is
made to give all the freedom possible to the toot s
muscles—doesn’t grip or pinch anywhere.
SINGLE SOLES ELASTIC SIDES
made from Queensland wallaby hide, as soft
as silk, and as tough as wire to the wear
Please say what size.
PIKE BROTHER
Toowoomba'
LIMITED
Brisbane.
Townsville.
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk lor a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
Hear what comforting words Arthur I.
Street, a journalist c rom the Land of Trusts,
and formerly editor of Collier’s Weekly,
said to a Brisbane interviewer regarding the
concern that swears vehemently it isn’t the
Beef Trust: —
I am assured, from what I know of it in America,
that you have an enormous Beef Trust right here in
your midst. Anyone who says it is not the Beef
Trust is ignorant of its doings. Your small firms and
your small dealers will not have a ghost of a hope
against the enormous capital of this concern. it
will ruin your pastoralists and deplete your stock
iust the same as it has done everywhere it has
operated It is the Trust, and none other that has
absolutely ruined the pastoral industry of the States.
....Do not for a moment imagine that the Beef
Trust will stop after it has secured control of your
export and local market. .. .It will capture your
supplies of butter, cheese, tallow and other products
It has done this in America. I am firmly convinced
that the Beef Trust is the most dangerous element
that you could possibly have in Australia.
Asked his opinion about the Referenda pro-
posals, Street said :
I think that, unless you include in your Constitu-
tion some provision for dealing with these concerns
effectively, ruin will visit you.
The Australian Export Meat Co., now
spending £400,000 in works on the Brisbane
River, has been buying up stock at big
prices. Curiously enough, the Beef Trust
(which, as stated repeatedly by “e com-
pany, isn’t the same concern at all) did the
same thing. Says Street:
The Trust at first paid inflated prices for stock,
but after competition had been crushed out it paid
just what it pleased.
The Trust’s turnover last year totalled
£170,000,000, and the earnings of its mem-
bers (Swifts, Morris, Armours and the
Cudahy Packing Co.) were from 11 to b 0.4
per cent.; so if any pastoralists are harbor-
ing unworthy suspicions that the Trust s
philanthropic ideas of cattle-buying may
change some day, they may know the size ot
the thing they will be up against. Queens-
land’s affability towards pests that someone
assured it were splendid things gave it the
prickly-pear and a few other disasters; but
its simple faith is still in first-class working
order.
“Rangan”: Barcaldine is more or less
seething. A townsman was charged with
drunkenness and resisting arrest. Four
policemen testified to the drunkenness, and
the arresting constable certified to the re-
sistance. The defence led forward 12 busi-
ness men of the town —the alleged drunk had
been paraded through the chief street, and
there were scores of witnesses, but the defence
thought that a dozen would do. The dozen
swore that the defendant was not drunk at
the time, and that, instead of resisting, he
was being illtreated. It took a day and a
half to get through with the defence. The
P M. then had his say, and told the citizens,
bv inference, that they were all quite blind, or
hopeless liars, or something, and that the
police were the only sane, observant, honor-
able and truthful men in the land, or words
to that effect. Then the defendant was fined
on each charge, and the citizens went out
and boiled over. In a moderately calm in-
terval they circulated the hat and paid the
fine, and are now considering whether an
appeal is worth while.
“W. Y. Penn” : Oxley’s M.H.11., Jim Ben-
jamin Sharpe, didn’t draw the long bow at
all in telling the House that the Swift-bossed
Beef Trust was hustling in ’Nanaland. The
works which it has already acquired are
sufficient to drive every other competitor
out of the field; and the meat businesses as
yet unacquired are depreciating in value
FORTUNE'S FAVORITE.
CHILLER: "That coppers dead, Mucker."
MUCKER : “ Wot copper?”
CHILLER: “The bloke wot pinched you and Ginger."
MUCKER: "'Struth . 'E’s lucky. I've been waitin' ever since to land ' im one, and now
'e goes and dies before I gets a chance!
monthly. Handy to Cairns, behind which
are the Biboora Meat Works—doomed to be
gulped down later on —there s an old stock-
raiser in possession of signed Contracts tor
the purchase of 1000 as yet unborn calves,
responsibility for delivery of which has been
undertaken by a Brisbane firm whose title
isn’t Swift and Co. Armour and Co., per
medium of stock agents, have, during the
past half-year, been kept primed with the
best inside information anent the meat trade,
and when the Swifts make their first open
cornering move, the Armours will be lounci
keeping step with them, as they have been
doing in the Argentine, where _ every com-
petitor has been practicallv driven out ot
the market. .
“Pax” : Some surprise was manifested in
political circles on the announcement by the
Clerk of Parliament that “Bishop” Barnes
had received the “greatest” number of votes.
It had been understood that only two candi-
dates were running, but this superlative
confounded the critics. Were there three
candidates, or was the Clerk’s grammar, un-
scholastic?
“Peter Culex” introduces a Northern
family:—
“Cleveland” (B. 18/12/T3) is truthful in the
main regarding the staked anchors, but he might
just as well have given Douglas Pitt his full name.
Also, Douglas Pitt is not a Murray Islander, but a
native of Darnley Island. Pitt, senior, a colored
diver from the West Indies, wedded in the long ago
an Errub (Darnley) lady, and raised up a notable
family of hefty sons and daughters. Pitt, junior—
all the junior Pitts, in fact —had a useful habit of
clearing a fouled fishing sinker by slipping overboard in
six fathoms or so of shark-infested water and just
picking it out of the crevice or coral-fan in which
it had got stuck. A fouled anchor was treated in
the same simple way. But as a swimmer Douglas is
a second-rater compared with his wife, who is a
real Murray Islander. When the pearling fleets were
blown to Kingdom Come in Princess Charlotte Bay
some years agone, the couple were adored under
one of the islands in a small cutter, this particu
lar cyclone was the one that shifted porpoises 70ft.
up on to the cliffs. The fringe of the breeze
capsized the cutter, and Mrs. Pitt swam ashore with
her baby on her shoulders. The island was waterless,
and the pair set out to swim to Point, 19
miles away. After 16 miles m the heavy sea that
was still running, Douglas caved in, so Mrs. I itt
added him to the baby and took him along. 1 h . e
child did not survive the journey. Douglas has evi-
dently not suffered any lasting effects, as his anchor-
staking efforts have been made since then. Jonn
Douglas, then Government Resident at Thursday
Island, gave the lady a medal commemorating her
swim, so that she is a sort of official record.
Jasper Harvey, a battered old Liberal war-
horse, is at present seriously ill in the Bris-
bane Hospital. Nevertheless Jasper still
scents the fray with delight, and writes a
long, warlike letter recounting his campaigns
and exhorting the Liberals in muddled meta-
phor “to run the race with clean hands.”
Evidently Jasper looks on the Liberals as
the pre-historic party —the party that came
before man began to stand upright.
“No Family.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wanted position as General. No family.
—Brisbane aavt.
On Bide-a-wee they want a man,
They’ve work to give his missus too;
But first they lay it down as law:
“A pair with babes will never do.
For Squatter Brown, of Bide-a-wee,
He can’t endure a family.
We sought a house the other day,
From Landlord Grab, of Terrace Three ;
But when he heard about the twins
“I fear,” he said, “we won’t agree;
For see,” said G. of Terrace Three,
“I can’t endure a family !”
Came Mary Jane about a “place,”
And seemed to think we’d suit her fine;
But up she started with a shriek
To see the pinnies on the line —
“You’ve (hildren in this house, I see;
I can’t abide a family.”
And Uncle John, who’s worth a bit,
Was coming down to spend a spell
Of summer as our honored guest
But when he heard of little Nell,
Our latest one, “No thanks,” said he,
“I can’t abide a family.”
The babbling of the merry babe,
The laughter sweet of girlish joy,
The merriment of childish play,
The healthy romp of happy boy —
How dare they come when folks there be
Who can’t endure a family?
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Bkisbane, December 27, 1913.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
The Cliiel Macgregor had no sooner at-
tended to his Christmas dinner than he had
to rush off to Warwick, where the local
tribe of kilties was holding its annual cor-
roboree. On his way back he will break the
journey at Toowoomba and attend the Picnic
Race Meeting. By New Year’s Day he will
have reached Bundaberg, where more Scotch
sports will be uncorked for his benefit.
The races to-day were chiefly noticeable
for the truly grotesque millinery that
appeared on the lawn. One specimen was
trimmed with- a stick, thrust through about
four pompoms of blue and pink tulle. A
particularly South Sea island specimen of
tam-o’shanter had a yellow crown and a
purple brim, and one short, stout lady
secured special mention for freak headpieces
by means of a large cart wheel of chiffon,
which was tied to the back of her hat. On
the other hand, there were some pretty
frocks. As usual, Mrs. .Tack Thomson
looked cool and smart, in spite of the heat.
Others deserving an honorable place on these
historical records were Mrs. Blume (whose
white gown was all hand-worked), Mrs.
Joey Bell and her sister, Mrs. Dalzell. The
Svdney Jones girls, with their slim, boyish
figures, looked as though they had just
stepped out of the pages of what the shop
lady calls the “Weaner Chick.”
All the hospitals dressed themselves in
greenery and flowers, and fed pleasant ii
indigestible delicacies to the patients on
Thursday. The orphanages and the Chil-
dren’s Hospital went in for toy-laden
Christmas trees, while, in each, a perspiring
nurse enveloped in a red nightgown and
mask acted the part of old-man S. Claus.
The children had a great time, partly
through the efforts of the Finney-Isles firm,
which organised a big toy-collection. At the
General Hospital decorations and an extra-
special dinner celebrated the occasion, and
the Mater Misericordiae Hospital was, as
usual, most elaborately disguised.
Passed over last week Larry Townsend,
known in many parts of Queensland as a
fearless horseman and a good pal. He was
a surveyor, but had turned his hand to
many things, including writing and play-
acting. He could sing or yarn by the hour,
and will long be remembered where the
camp fire burns, and where_ new railway
lines are pushing their way into the bush.
He was only 31 when the Old Enemy called
round.
The Titles Department mentioned to a
cocky the other day that he owed it five
shillings. Cocky argued the point to no
effect. “Dash it,” he said at last to the
clerk, “you’re just like that cove Shy lock
’Olmes. You will ’ave your pound of flesh.”
A youthful and blushing bride reduced the
aged grandmother of the man of her choice
to a state of collapse last week. When
asked if she could cook, she replied with
simple modesty, “Not very well, but I know
that you bake inside the stove, and boil on
the outside.”
An inter-State chess match is dozing as I
write. This morning, to the great joy of the
Queensland team, telegraphic communication
was interrupted after about three moves had
been made, and for two weary hours 10
yawning men sat round waiting for the
lines to be fixed up again. I don’t know
how the game or whatever it is will finish,
but at present things look slightly in favor
of this State.
Allen Doone is singing to packed houses
here. Last week Ella Carrington was in
this hamlet for three days, to play the part
of Mrs. Barry, in “Barry of Ballyinoore.
It is 11 years since she was here last, and
her old friends received her gladly.
W. Spiers, pianist to the Green Dandies,
received a tough helping of luck last week,
when the house where he was boarding
caught fire. Every stitch of clothing owned
by his wife and himself was burned, and.
worst of all, all his testimonials, many valu-
able private papers, and a quantity of music.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Just out, the Book of the Year: “A Jour-
nalist and Two Bears,” by James Edmond.
All booksellers. *
Bananaland’s native bears and opossums
have been protected for some years now, and
an order is out that the protection shall be
extended another year. This is quite right
as far as it goes. A few weeks back, how-
ever, 2000 opossum skins were sold in a
bundle in Rockhampton, and that’s probably
not a tenth of the sales within the State.
Plainly what is wanted is a prohibition
against the selling of opossum and bear skins,
and till that comes and is well backed up,
nothing will stop the slaughter of these rap-
idly-disappearing creatures.


111111
in
*
oMik. ■ .nfffli « # tfyfek MUMP
PLEASURE
MAKE TOURf/MG
A
»■ <i
M
11
■1-
■
lie
:
'
I
m ' ♦
?
, ; ;
py$
mm
ini
, *;;■: : :
,
~ -V
I t


Was pale
and thin
Weak and delicate
children grow healthy,
sturdy and strong
when given SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
“ My two sons, one pale and thin, were
suffering with severe coughs and loss
of appetite. After the first bottle
of SCOTT’S they were brighter and
eating better. In a short time they
were quite cured and looked a
picture of health
Both children like SCOTT’S so well
that they call it cream.” —(Signed)
Mrs. C. Barnard, 64, Angel Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W. 31/8/11*
scorn
Emulsion
Only the genuine SCOTT’S
bears the Fishman Trade Mark.
TRADE
A
MARK
A-pollinaris
Annual filling at the Anollinaris Spring
Year 1901 - - - 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 1911 - - - 37,000,000 Bottles
THE aUEEN OF TABLE WATEHS "
Lactobacilline
(s prepared under the authority and scientific control
of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF,
the famous scientist whose discoveries have revolu-
tionised the art of medicine. By its use the putre-
factive bacillus in the intestinal tract is destroyed,
and a condition of
PERFECT HEALTH
is obtained.
LACTOBACILLINE
is prescribed and used by tens of thousands of
Physicians, and hundreds of thousands of patients
have testified to its value. Lactobacilline not only
cures, it prevents disease. Lactobacilline is pre-
pared in tablet form. Price, 5/6 per box, con-
taining eight cylinders of tablets. Each package
bears the words, “Le Ferment seul Fournisseur
du Professur Metehnikoff,” without which none are
genuine.
It can be obtained through any chemist, or direct
from the Dep6t Societe le Ferment, Australasia
Chambers, 406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane; or
Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney ; Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street, Mel-
bourne ; Ellersliaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street,
Fremantle; Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street,
Auckland.
■■
.. •
- '' ' •-
8 3
i«s&g|SS
S=3g(i
Seven Days’
Free Trial
of one of these
fine French-
made Prisma-
tic P.inoculars.
Magnify 8 in.
diame t e r ,
large and
hright field of
view, clean,
crisp and sharp
focus, adjust-
able eyepiece (for odd eyes), also central focus.
Complete in leather case, £5 post free.
We are Australian agents for a large French
Optical House, and have contracted to take a
large number to secure special discounts, other-
wise this grade glass would cost £6/10/-.
Send full cash deposit of £5, and we will
send Binocular for seven days’ free trial. If
found unsatisfactory, and returned, full deposit
will be refunded.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO., LTD.,
189-191 George Street. Brisbane.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Cbemlsta.
!-"TTC. ■■im
SKWffllW
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
«
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
Hunyadi Janos
Indiscretions of diet are the most frequent cause of liver complaints.
Other contributing factors are excess of alcohol and lack of exercise.
To safely and speedily overcome such a condition there is no better
remedy than the taking of a wine-glassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water before breakfast every day for a week or fortnight,
which has the hippy effect of relieving in an almost instantaneous
manner any congestion of the liver.
Hunyadi Janos is obtainable at all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOWNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue. Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only):
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
sdf
sdf
Texehd
■braces
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort, Style
At first class shops,
31-
WA
Wonderful Working' Models.
Marvels of Mechanical Ingenuity.
SPECIAL DISPLAY AT JERDAN’S. BRING THE BOYS TO SEE THEM WORK.
We are making a Special Display in our Windows of the Latest in Scientific Toys.
THESE BOTH INSTRUCT AND AMUSE.
SCIENCE COMBINED WITH PLEASURE.
MODELS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN NAVY
DREADNOUGHTS
ma i Lire ATS
TORPEDO BOATS
SUBMARINES
LOCOMOTIVES
HORIZONTAL ENGINES
VERTICAL ENGINES
DYNAMOS
CINEMATOGRAPHS, etc., etc.
Also
The Masterpiece,
Even the
AND THE PRICES RANGE FROM 6/6.
** MECANNO,” “A Thousand Models in One.’
Smallest Child can make his own Working Models from 5/- the set.
OPEN ON FRIDAY NIGHTS.
JERDANS LTD.
393 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
r
Don’t WisH for a Smart Moustache.
Grow one—you can do it—no matter how thin or poor the hair-growth
on your upper lip. You can develop a splendid moustache with
CAPILLARINE.
This splendid preparation is not an experiment—it is a proved success.
For 30 years it has been on the market, and hundreds have benefited by
its efficacy. It is easily applied and cannot be detected.
Rub a little Capillarine on your upper lip before retiring—in a remark-
ably short time you will have a fine full-grown moustache.
10/6 PER JAR POST FREE.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice {except of a Hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.H.W.: The N.S.W. Commissioner can
raise fares without consulting Parliament; but he
has to get Executive approval. .. .W.L.8.: Thanks;
but it would be far better for you to deal with the
matter in the Ballymena paper.... Finucane: When
you label that kind of stuff “Poetry,” be careful the
Pure Food inspectors don’t see it. They would have
you up for misdescription.... Notabo: Interesting
enough; but as the ceremonies varied with different
tribes, and you don’t mention a locality, the thing
loses value. .. .Fontaine; If The Bulletin gneveu
over the departure of any of Watt’s former Ministers,
it would be for the loss of Graham, the practical
man who ran the Department of Agriculture, and
knew the things that really cut into the farmers’
revenue.-, . .Briefless: You eat up too much space;
and, in any case, you could find much better
examples of Argus folly T.H.P.: Yes, send along
some more. At this time of year you can tel-1 us the
old, old story with impunity.... Spectator: It is far
too long; incidentally, it is of no interest. . . .Jane S.:
It drags along in various metres and throws off a
false rhyme now and then like a sizzling firework.
It says nothing new and serves up the old gags
without new spice. In short, it is a sorrowful pro-
duct. .. .E. A.G.: Here’s your poem, or some of it,
anyway:—
BREAKERS GREY AND WHITE.
Glorious Nature’s peaceful sea,
Lolling, lapping lazily,
Lulled to sleep so peacefully,
Where lies thy source of energy ?
Bobbing buffets, lurching leaps
Rolling water all in heaps,
Joyful, in the. sunlight keeps,
A transient blu«, right o’er the deeps.
Soon a murky cloud appears,
Booming thunder oft one hears;
Of roaring cyclones all have fears,
And all tne rocks are shedding tears.
Vent thy spite, defeated sea,
Upon the foe thou cannot see,
The wind that flees so hastily
Nor knock the rocks so angrily.
Mumbling, rumbling, shuffling sore,
Lie down to rest about our shore,
Lie down, thou dragon, ’feated more,
Mumbling, rumbling, shuffling sore.
S.M.W.: Unsuitable C.8.G.: Pumped-up
verse....O. Clancy: It’s all overflow. .. .A.L.B. :
Sketch put by for a second reading. .. . E.: 'loo
slight, and for Heaven's sake put your name and
address on your copy. We’re getting tired of telling
contributors that —especially as the unnamed, home-
less contributor usually writes in, six months after
his mysterious screed has been judged, demanding
furiously or tearfully to know what has become of
his priceless MS. That sort of contributor never
keeps a copy, can’t remember how it went, and is
dead sure he will die of grief if the nuisance can’t
be found L.R. (Vic.): Song declined in great
agony. A mere addressed envelope without a stamp
isn’t sufficient to take it back to y0u.... Percy C.:
It would serve you right if some of them were
printed over your full name and address. .. .S.P.M.:
Average cost per mile of railway varies enormously.
In N. S. Wales it is £13,555, which is the highest;
in Westralia £5060, which is the lowest. The aver-
age for all the States has been £9507. The average
cost of Westralian lines has been considerably re-
duced by the sensible-enough practice of allowing the
contractors to carry traffic to the more-or-less com-
pleted line-head.... Permanganate: Not in need of a
disinfectant so much as of a buck-up. .. .Hard Sense:
You claim that employers have a right to say, in
effect: “This man has been a persistent nuisance and
a menace to the peace of our industry. We there-
fore agree, in the interests not of ourselves merely,
but of the other employees and the public, that lie
be not again given work in this industry.” f You 11,
of coarse, allow the same right to the labor unions.
For instance, there is a newspaper somewhere or
other which persistently sets itself out to defeat the
objects of a certain union and cause trouble in union
ranks. You will therefore allow that the unions have
the right to say: “We will not work for this paper
any more,” which would certainly - mean that the
whole concern would be shut up. A few score of
shareholders would be very hungry, no doubt ; still
shareholders don’t feel any hungrier than, say, wharf
laborers.
A Melbourne man, table-waiting in
Hobart, invested in a five-shilling ticket in
Tattersall’s, and won the suit-case full of
money we are all counting on. The de-
lighted fellow at once dashed over to Mel-
bourne, picked up his tired little Typewriting
wife, and rushed her off to Paris. The hero’s
first personal indulgence., rtf ter Fortunes
showerbath had descended on him, was to
buv the most glittering pair of patent-leather
shoes in sight.
Westralian goldfield Laboirites have
allowed a Liberal to get in ahead of them
with a sane scheme of local government.
Charles Cutbush, just elected Mayor of
Ivalgoorlie for the third time, proposes to
work tooth and nail for municipal unifica-
tion on the field, giving to one governing
body the powers now poorly and wastefully
exercised by three. Labor could have done
this years ago. In fact, it never need have
allowed the bad system to start; but there
are Labor men who enjoy mayoral robes,
functions; and cupboards, and once they get
the taste are just as loth to give them up as
the other fellows are.
Judge Macnaughton, brought to Brisbane
from comparative obscurity in the North, is
beginning to take the public eye. He cuts
away the flotsam which makes for delays,
and goes to the kernel. He tells the Bar
where to find authorities to help them, and
gets down upon them with both feet when
they show that they haven’t worked at their
case. In the lawyer-barred Industrial
Appeal Court he has twice lately upset the
decisions of wages boards (which may or
may not.be to his credit) —once by declaring
that a daily trade-protection gazette was a
daily newspaper, and again by deciding that
the barber’s half-holiday on a Saturday was
unfair to the struggling suburban hairdresser
and to the unshaven public.
A remarkable manifestation of faith in the
Melbourne police occurred the other day,
and curiously enough the Chief Commis-
sioner is saying nothing about it. At about
10 o’clock on a recent fine night an excited
female arrived at the Chief Commissioner’s
front door. She would take no denials.
She was an O’Rooke of the Rookes, or a
Rafferty of the O’Rafferties, and she in-
sisted on seeing “himself.” Her air was
wild and her speech was intemperate, but
she seemed to have - legitimate melodrama
concealed about her erson, so they humored
her. She was admitted to the Chief Com-
missioner, and it all came out. “A nice to-
do,” she said. “A fine shtate iv things alto-
gether,” said she. “Some bla’guard’s bin ’n’
brack me washhouse windy, ’n’ what’re yeh
goin’ t’ do about it at all?”


M ISS
Simplicity
u
Employ
»>
US.
I have thou-
sands of sisters
in service, all
doing well.
Their masters
and mistresses
are delighted
with their
smart , quick,
reliable work
and scrupulous
cleanliness
The Onoto is the best p-n
to employ, because it simpli-
fies writing. It fills itself
instantly without mess or
bother writes splendidly
and cannot leak.
Onoto
The pen to possess
Price 12/- and upwards of
all Stationers. Jewellers, and
Stores Booklet about the
Onoto Pen free on app ication
to Thos me la Ruk & Co.,
Ltd., 204. Bunhill Row,
London, E.C., or the Man-
aging Agents for Australasia,
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
60 York Street, Sydney.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from 1 the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of The
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be- obtained
from J. P. Talty, -388' Sussex Street, Sydney.
for a fair dinkum go]
L ... TRY THE ... 4
©
©
TEJ
lE-ZOH
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
UAC MfMUCTV Tri fl C BVI n Oil Security of Freehold or leasehold City
** M O ItIwIVC I IVy C- I U or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. UTAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. Janies Burns, M.D.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., ICC. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
Bargains
FROM
ENGLAND
sd
BARGAINS
FOR
ALL.
PAWNBROKERS’
Clearance Sale.
SEND AT ONCE FOR OUR
FULL LIST OF
3,500
GENUINE BARGAINS.
ASTOUNDING VALUE.
Brimming over with money-saving possibilities.
Patronised by Royalty and the Nobility.
Bankers:
London County & Westminster Bank,
Camberwell Branch, London.
TV7E have every confidence in onr abilities to pledse our Customers, lienee our remarkable
»» offer of Si" Months’ Free Approval. Examine the articles yon may choose at your
own convenience, in your own home, and if you are not delighted and fully satisfied with the
high quality and exceptional value, return them to us within six months and we will
immediately return your deposit.
May we solicit a trial order? Absolute satisfaction guaranteed
or money returned in full.
TERMS OF BUSINESS. —Any Article Sent on Approval, Carriage
Free, on receipt of remittance. Cash refunded in full for goods
not approved and returned us within six months.
Read what “The Christian Age” says—
“DAVJS it Co., of 26 Denmark Hill, have gained
considerable reputation for supplying unredeemed
pledges at very moderate prices. We gather from
their latest Bargain Hist that great savings can be
effected by purchasing a second-hand article of
jewellery which has just had enough wear to test
its value at about one-third the original cost price.
Included in their catalogue are watches by some of
the finest in ikers in the world."
Read what “Great Thoughts” says—
“ There cannot exist much doubt as to the intrinsic
value of any advertised article when such advertisers
are willing to send the poods advertised on the
Approval System. This system is adopted by
Messrs. DAVIS & Co., and is a singular proof that
Messrs. DAVIS &■ Co. have every belief in their
ability to please their customers and prove the
genuine nature of their announcements.”
14/6
Field, Race, or Marine Glasses.
Military Binocular (by Lefaier),
as supplied to officers in the Army and Navy ;
10 achromatic lenses ; 50 miles range ; shows
bullet mark et 1,000-yds.; saddler made case ;
great bargain? sacrifice,'M/6.
21/-
Powerful £4/4/- Binocular
Glasses (by Chevalier) ; 10
Field
lens
magnification power, brilliant definition, over
60 miles range, great depth of focus, large
field of view ; adjusted to the hip' , '<=st degree
of scientific accuracy; in saddlta made sting
case; tremendous bargain; sacrifice,,£1/1/-
37/6
Powerful £8/8/- Double-Draw Bino-
culars, 12 lens magnification power
(by Lumiere), as supplied to H.R.H. the Crown
Prince of Greece; most powerful glass made;
name of ship can be distinctly read five miles
from shore; quick.focus, brilliant field of view,
colourless achromatic crystal lenses, enhanced
stereoscopic effect, great penetration power ; in
solid brown English leather case; sacrifice,£1/17/6
12/6
Gent’s heavy 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Lever Hunter Watch,
improved action (John Forrest, London); 10,
years' warranty; absolutely perfect timekeeper;'
also Double Curb Albert, same quality with"
handsome Compass attached ; all quite indis-
tinguishable from new; complete, sacrifice, 12/6.
12/6
Lady’s handsome 18-ct. Gold-cased
Keyless Watch, improved action
(Allen & Co., London) ; exact timekeeper; 10 J
years' warranty; also long Watch Guard, elegant
design, same quality ; together, sacrifice, 12/6.
15/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown Fur, 8-ft.
long; Granville Stole, deep shaped collar,
beautifully trimmed, 12 tails and heads; large
Granny MnfF matching; together. 15/6.
22/6
(Worth £5/5/-). Real Russian Furs.
Rich, dark sable brown, extra long
Princess Stole, trimmed with head and tails at
bach and on shoulders ; also large animal Muff,
with heads and tails hanging; in perfectly new
condition ; together, great sacrifice, £1/2/6.
12/6
Gent’s fashionable Double Albert,
18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, curb
pattern, heavy solid links; sacrifice, 12/6.
18/6
Lady’s £4/4/- 18-ct. Solid Gold, hall-
marked, Diamond and Sapphire
Doublet Half-hoop Ring, claw setting, large
faultless stones; sacrifice, 18/6.
70/-
Lady’s £13/13/- 5-Stone Diamond
and Sapphire Half-hoop Ring, 18-ct.
Gold, Government hall-marked, claw setting,
containing two large round diamonds of dazzling
whiteness and three beautiful sapphires of
richest quality ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
26/6
Gent’s £4/4/- fashionable Dark Grey
Tweed Jacket Suit (by Stroud,
High-class Tailor) ; splendid quality,
West End cut and finish, never worn ;
39-in., waist 36-in., length 32^-in.; £1/6/6.
latest
breast
26/6
Lady’s £5/5/- Solid Gold English,
hall-marked, Keyless Watch, highly
finished jewelled movement, exact timekeeper,
richly engraved; 12 years' warranty; £1/6/6.
70/-
Magnificent Gent’s £13/13/- Single
Stone Diamond Ring, exceptionally
fine pure white stone, perfect in every respect,
mounted in 18-ct. Gold, Government hall-
marked, claw setting ; sacrifice, £3/10/-
26/6
Lady’s £515/- Solid Gold long Watch
Guard, handsome and very stylish
in pattern, stamped and guaranteed, in faultiest
and new condition ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
55/-
Gent’s magnificent £11/11/- Solid
Gold English, hall-marked, Keyless
l.ever, Centre Seconds, Chronograph Stop
Watch, exam, by celebrated watchmaker (W.
Russell, London); jewelled movement, perfect
reliability in any climate in the world ; timed to
a minute a month ; 20 years' warranty ; 6 months'
trial; great bargain; sacrifice, £2/15’/-
59/6
Lady’s magnificent £11/11/- Diamond
and Sapphi re Cluster Ring,] 8-ct.Gold,
hall-marked ; there are ten white and faultless
diamonds surrounding a superb sapphire of
richest quality ; to appreciate the full beauty of
this Ring it must be seen ; sacrifice, £2/19/6.
29/6
Baby’s Long Clothes, superfine
quality, magnificent £5/5/- parcel,
82 articles, everything required; beautiful
garments; the perfection of mother’s personal
work ; never worn; great sacrifice, £1/9/6.
32/6
Valuable Violin (worth £10/10/-),
perfect condition, labelled Stradivarius
Cremona, 1721 ; rich mellow tone, with Bow
and Case, suit professional or soloist; /1/12/6.
13/6
(Worth £3/3/-). Choice Expanding
Watch Bracelet; finest workman-
ship, most successful ever invented, will fit
and grip any wrist, thereby avoiding all vibration
and ensuring perfect timekeeping; 18-ct. Gold-
cased ; 6 months’ trial; sacrifice, 13/6.
12/9
(Worth £1/15/-). Eight superfine quality
Chemises, Knickers, and Petticoats;
magnificent parcel; sacrifice, 12/9.
39/6
Spoons and Forks. (£10/10/- Set).
A1 quality, silver-plated on nickel
silver, stamped maker’s initials, Queen Anne
pattern; 12 Table, 12 Dessert, 12 Tea Spoons,
12 Table, 12 Dessert Forks; Service 5-doz.;
wonderful bargain, Tl/19/6; Half-Set, Tl.
10/6
Bracelet, with safety chain, solid
links, 1 18-ct. Gold (stamped) filled, in velvet case;
sacrifice, 10/6; another heavier, 12/6.
26/6
(Worth £4/4/-). Twenty-four superfine
quality Nightdresses, Chemises,
Knickers, Petticoats, Combinations, &c.;
tremendous bargain ; sacrifice, £1/6/6.
6/9
Pretty Necklet, with Heart Pendant
attached, spt Parisian pearls and tur-
quoises; elegant design; 18-ct. Gold (stamped)
filled; in velvet case ; bargain; sacrifice, 6/9.
DAVIS & CO.
r„ L )
PAWNBROKERS,
26 DENMARK HILL,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
The Royal Commission
in their final report on Tuberculosis,
recently issued, clearly showed that
the chief danger to child life resulted
from the use of infected cow’s milk.
To quote one extract : “The Evi-
dence we have accumulated goes to
demonstrate that a considerable
amount of the tuberculosis of child-
hood is to be ascribed to infection
transmitted to children in meals
consisting largely of the milk of
—i » the cow.”
When the mother’s milk is not
available, tha “Allenburys” Foods
form the best substitute, as they are
practically identical with healthy human milk
in composition, nutritive value and digestibility,
and are atiolutely free from all harmful germs.
Milk Pood No. I. From birth to 3 months
Milk Food No. 2. From 3to 6 months
Malted Food No. 3. From 6 months upwards
The Allenburys’ Rusks. A
valuable addition to baby's dietary
wnen ten months old and after These
Rusts are specially useful during the
troublesome time of teething. When
eaten raw they mechanically aid the
cutting of teeth.
j^llenburgs
Foods
promote sound sleep, ensure
vigorous health and develop-
ment, and represent the most
successful method of Infant
Feeding ever devised.
SPF* Pamphlet on “Infant Feeding and Management” sent free.
Allen 8 Hanburys Ltd., London, Eng., and Market St., Sydney
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices in this list are those at which the
various boohs are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
boohs are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria. New South J Vales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate o/ 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE WILDS OF MAORILAND.
By J. MACKINTOSH BELL, with
illustrations and maps. Demy Bvo.
ACROSS AUSTRALIA. By BALD-
WIN SPENCER, C.M.G., M.A.,
F.R.S., Professor of Biology in Mel-
bourne University; and F. J. GIL-
LEN, Special Magistrate and Sub-
Protector of Aborigines for South
Australia. With colored and other
Illustrations and Maps. In 2 vols.
Bvo. 21 s. net. (255.)
FEEDING AND CARE OF BABY.
By F. TRUBY KING, M. 8., B.Sc.
(Public Health), Edinburgh. Bvo.
Paper Cover, Is. net (Is. 3d.) ; Cloth
Cover, 2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
The Evening News: “Written with authority
for the intelligent laywoman who has the bring-
ing up of an infant, the book thoroughly de-
serves, and ought to find, a splendid welcome
from the public and the medical profession
alike.”
MACAULAY’S HISTORY OF ENG-
LAND. ILLUSTRATED EDITION.
Edited by Prof. CHARLES HARD-
ING FIRTH, M.A. With 900 illus-
trations, including 44 in color, and
Photogravure Portrait. Uniform with
the Illustrated Edition of Green’s
“Short History of the English People.”
In 6 vols. [Published quarterly.]
Vol. I. Super-royal Bvo. 10s. Gd.
net. (12s. Gd.)
THE LIFE OF FLORENCE NIGHT-
INGALE. By Sir EDWARD COOK.
With Photogravure Portraits. 2
vols. Bvo. 30s. net (3Gs.)
THE LTFE OF EDWARD BULWER,
FIRST LORD LYTTON. By HIS
GRANDSON, the EARL OF LYT-
TON. With Photogravure Portrait
and other Illustrations. 2 vols. Bvo.
30s. net. (365.)
AUTHOR’S ANNOTATED EDITION.
THE WORKS OF TENNYSON.
With Notes by the Author. Edited,
with New Memoir, by HALLAM,
LORD TENNYSON. With Por-
trait. Extra Crown Bvo. 10s. Gd.
(12s. Gd.)
RABINDRANATH TAGORE, Nobel
Laureate, Literature, 1913.
SADHANA: THE REALISATION
OF LIFE. A Series of Lectures.
By RABINDRANATH TAGORE,
Author of “Gitanjili,” etc. Extra
Crown Bvo. ss. net. (65.)
THE CRESCENT MOON. Child
Poems. By RABINDRANATH
TAGORE. With 8 Illustrations in
Color. Pott 4to. 4s. Gd. net (ss. 6d.)
THE GARDENER. Lyrics of Love
and Life. By RABINDRANATH
TAGORE, Author of “Gitanjali.”
With Portrait. Crown Bvo. 4s. 6d.
net. (ss. 6d.)
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
Latest Volumes —631 and 632.
Scott’s Last Expedition.
Being the Journals of Captain R. F.
SCOTT, C.V.0., R.N.,
Together with the Reports of the other
Journeys and the Scientific Work
undertaken during the Expedition.
Edited by LEONARD HUXLEY,
with the assistance of the surviving
Members of the Expedition. With a
Preface by Sir CLEMENTS R.
MARKHAM, K.C.8., F.R.S. In 2
vols. With Illustrations and Maps.
635 A CHANGED MAN, THE
Waiting Supper, and other Tales,
concluding with The Romantic Ad-
ventures of a Milkmaid. By
THOMAS HARDY.
The Nation : “The volume is highly wel-
come, not merely because it casts instructive
light on the creative evolution of a genius, but
because it contains several little masterpieces
and scores of beautiful passages.”
618 THE PASSIONATE FRIENDS.
By H. G. WELLS, Author of “Mar-
riage,” etc.
633 BENDISH: A Study in Prodi-
gality. By MAURICE HEWLETT,
Author of “The Forest Lovers,” etc.
636 BEHIND THE SCENES IN
THE SCHOOLROOM: Being the
Experiences of a Young Governess.
By FLORENCE MONTGOMERY,
Author of “Misunderstood.”
634 THE CORYSTON FAMILY.
By Mrs. HUMPHRY WARD, Au-
thor of “Robert Elsmere,” etc.
The Pall Mall Gazette: “Mrs. Ward has
never written anything better. For a galloping
topical story of wide appeal, it would be very
hard to beat. It has all the qualities that
make for wide and. legitimate popularity.”
610 VAN CLEEVE. By MARY S.
WATTS, Author of “Nathan Burke,”
etc.
• A novel of modern life in Ohio.
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application,
macmillMco.ltd.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


Arrvott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Apropos “Thirsty Bob’s” remark (B.
25/12/T3) that, while the “outside” booths
at the inter-State match on the Sydney
Cricket Ground were shut on the day the
Parliamentary ballot was taken, the bar in
the members’ enclosure was open, The Bul-
letin is assured that the latter was open
only so far as soft drinks are concerned. Ac-
cording- to some legal opinions, the members’
bar might have done ordinary business, not-
withstanding the Parliamentary Elections
Act; but the official law view was hostile,
and the S.C.G. authorities, to be on the safe
side, put members on soda straight for that
day.
The Westralian Landlords’ House the
other day made a special effort to demon-
strate why it should be abolished. The mem-
bers once more rejected the Esperance Rail-
way Bill, on the ground that the establish-
ment of a new port might take trade from
i.erth and Fremantle, and that Esperance
district might grow potatoes and vegetables
tor the goldfields, thus hurting Bunbury, Big-
john’s birthplace. The most discreditable
incidents of the business were the adverse
votes given by certain legislators who mis-
represent the disgracefully-fleeced goldfields
constituencies.
“Livesev”; The long, narrow room over
the hat-shop at 66 Bourke-street (Mel-
bourne), the business establishment of Sam
Mauger, ex-M.P., will shortly be required
for other purposes, and the Anti-Sweating
League and other associations will have to
find new quarters. The room was originally
used for making hats in ; but when Mauger
purchased the business it was turned into
an office, where for many years political
movements had their birth. There many
trades unions were formed (the last was
the Watchmen’s Union) before being passed
on to the Trades Hall. If the walls of the
room could speak they could tell of many a
pitiful tale of sweating and misery unfolded
to Mauger and his associates, and of long
hours spent by men like Dr. Strong, H. 11.
Champion, W. D. Beazley and A. R. Edgar,
in drafting the Factories Act, which was
subsequently piloted through Parliament by
Peacock of the laugh. There was a time
when “66 Bourke-street” was the most hated
spot in Victoria. It was the headquarters of
the gang of Protectionists who dared to defy
the power of Flinders-lane in their en-
deavors to erect around Australia a tariff
wall. Premiers and Cabinet Ministers have
met there in secret, selected candidates have
promulgated policies, and budding members
of Parliament have often waited there while
Sam was busy serving a customer or ironing
a silk hat in order to receive the support of
the “Protectionist Association,” which was
nothing more or less than David Syme and
his faithful hatter.
ISO
Stop scratching! Eczema
is easily cored with
“ISO.” It soothes and
heals. Send 3d. (in
stamps) for liberal sam-
ple tube.
BLACK, Chemist,
Collin gw ood, Vic.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
No. 354 of 1913.
Mr. Justice ChuM).
BETWEEN
ROBERT JOHN SIMPSON, Plaintiff,
AND
WILLIAM SIMPSON, Defendant.
TO WILLIAM SIMPSON, formerly of
Currumbin, in the State of Queensland, in
the Commonwealth of Australia, Farmer, but
believed to be lately residing in the State of
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that Robert John Simp-
son, of Currumbin, aforesaid, Farmer, has
commenced an action against you, William
Simpson, in his Majesty’s Supreme Court at
Queensland, by a Writ of that Court dated
the fourth day of December, One thousand
nine hundred and thirteen, which Writ is
endorsed as follows :
“THE PLAINTIFF’S CLAIM is
against the defendant for partition of all
that piece or parcel of land containing
One hundred and sixty acres more or
less situated in the Parish of Tallebud-
gera, County of Ward, being Farm No.
13, Beenleigh District, Portion 19V, and
being the whole of the land described in
Deed of Grant No. 784G3, Volume 630,
Folio 223, of which said land the plain-
tiff and the defendant are the registered
proprietors under the Real Property
Acts 1861 and 1877 for an estate in
fee simple as joint tenants, or in the
alternative for the sale of the said
piece or parcel of land in lieu of such
partition as aforesaid and the distribu-
tion of the proceeds of such sale.
“And for costs.”
AND you are required within two months
after the receipt of this notice, inclusive of
the day of such receipt, to defend the said
action by causing an appearance to be
entered for you in the said Court to the said
action and in default of your so doing the
said Robert John Simpson may by leave of
the Court or a Judge proceed therein and
judgment may be given in your absence.
You may appear to the said Writ by
entering an appearance personally or by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at Brisbane.
Dated this Eleventh day of December,
1903.
McCOWAN & LIGHTOLLER,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff, Robert John
Simpson,
New Zealand Chambers,
334 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Amusements.
JHE GKE AT WIII T E C~I~T Y
MADE FOR MERRIMENT-
FASHIONED FOR FUN—
THE MECCA OF THE MERRYMAKER.
COLOSSAL NEW YEAR PROGRAMME.
FREE ATTRACTIONS IN OPEN-AIR
THEATRE.
THE SAVOLAS, on the High Wire.
MISS MARIE THELIN’S Thrilling Fire
Dive, 60ft. through the Air, Enveloped in
Flames.
WHITE CITY MILITARY BAND.
NIGHTLY, 6.30 to 11.
WED. and SAT., 2 to 11 p.m.
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
INCLUSIVE ADMISSION, SIXPENCE.
UEK MAJESTY'S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
THE REVUE OF REVUES.
COME OVER HERE.
The Most Stupendous Entertainment ever Staged in
Australia.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
A 1* H J THEA T K E. SYDNEY.
” Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
“ALADDJN” PANTOMIME.
A Wonderful Assembly of Picturesque Scenes.
Favorite Artists and World-famed Novelties.
POPULAR PRICES : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
D ADAGE T II E A T It E. S Y I) N E Y.
w Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING.
THE AMERICAN MUSICAL BURLESQUE CO.
60 SINGERS AND DANCERS AND 4 COMEDIANS.
In the Exciting Musical Racing Revel,
A DAY AT THE MACES.
Box Plan at PALING’S.
PRICES: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
Amusements.
|\| ATJONAL AMPHITHEATRE. . SYDNEY.
I'* 1 '* Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
BRENNAN-FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE VAUDEVILLE SENSATION OF AUSTRALIA.
CHRISTMAS VAUDEVILLE
PANTOMIME.
A Revue of America’s and Europe’s Music Ilall
Headliners, comprising more than 30 Artists, in a
programme of unusual excellency and brilliancy.
BRICES: 3/-, 2/-, ‘l/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
Q LACIARIUM ANI) OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“REST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee),
g PENCE It’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
SCROOGE.
Adapted from “A Christmas Carol,” by CHARLES
DICKENS.
PRICES : 1/6, 1/- & 6d. BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
M P E It I A L THEATRE,
WILLIAM STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
THE MONEY GOD.
THURSDAY NEXT.
THE CRIME AT THE MILL.
A WARNING TO YOUNG GIRLS.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/6.
Edward branscombe’s
FIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. ICILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LOME HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
“BEAUTIFUL FACE, and
NO MOREWRINKLES.”
Free Beauty Coupon for Sydney “ Bulletin ” Readers.
ARRANGEMENTS have been made with
Mile. Eleanor Lawton, World-Famous
Beauty Specialist, of Paris and London,
to furnish free particulars to all readers of
Svdney Bulletin in regard to what is be-
lieved to be the most remarkable method of
removing wrinkles which has ever been dis-
covered.
Mile. Lawton has been awarded nine gold
medals by Paris, London, Brussels, Rome
and other Intel-national Expositions on her
great beauty discoveries. The French Gov-
ernment has honored her with a patent on
her wonderful new process for removing
wrinkles, and patents are also now pending
before the United States Government at
Washington.
Mile. Lawton is herself
a living example of the
great power of her re-
markable Beauty-making
discoveries. By many she
is considered the most
beautiful woman in all
Paris.
She took her own wrin-
kles out in three nights
by .her new discovery
many months ago, after
plasters, face creams and
massage masks, straps,
steaming-pots and worth-
less apparatus had all
failed to remove them:
and her skin to-day is
still soft and smooth, her
face beautiful, and she
has ;no more wrinkles.
But. best of all, her dis-
covery not only succeeded
in her own case, but it
seems to have worked
even more astonishing re-
sults in the cases of
others.
On referring to her
filesl Mile. Lawton se-
lected a letter from Mrs.
W. Schwald as being typi-
cal of the many like it received every day.
Mrs. Schwald writes ; “I must tell you how
wonderfully your treatment has taken out
my wrinkles. There were a multitude of
them, and they grew constantly deeper and
more plentiful. I was in despair, for I had
tried treatment after treatment without the
slightest success. Like yourself, I tried
plasters, massage, face creams and various
advertised concoctions, but the wrinkles
stayed just the same. When I first heard of
your treatment I had little faith, but I de-
cided to make just one more attempt. With
the very first trial I was able to remove
some of the deepest lines on my forehead.
To-day there is not a wrinkle on my face,
and certainly I look and feel ten years
j ounger; besides, my skin is softer and
dearer, and my complexion better than ever
before in my life. I cannot thank you or
praise your treatment' enough, and I have
r commended it to more than a dozen
friends.”
No other beauty specialist, living or dead,
has ever been honored by gold medals from
International Expositions, and patronised by
countesses and ladies of high title and rank,
M
mm
These two photographs, the second of which many
more plainly than any words what a marvellous
woman may now Quickly bring about by means o
explained in this article.
may recognise, show
transformation any
f the new discovery
to the extent that Mile. Eleanor Lawton has
been.
You will never again have the opportunity
of consulting free of cost a Beauty specialist
of such world-wide reputation as Mile.
Lawton. Therefore; be sure to cut out and
use the Free Coupon to-da.v. You need send
no money, except a penny stamp for postage,
hut merely enclose,the following Coupon in
a letter, and you will receive a prompt
answer in a plain,’ sealed envelooe.
FOR REMOVING WRINKLES.
Cut out this Coupon to-day and send it to the world-famous Beauty Specialist, Mile. Eleanor
Lawton, of Paris and London, for free information in regard to removing wrinkles by a marvellous
new process that often makes ordinary wrinkles disappear in one night.
Many ladies say it has made them look from ten to twenty years ypunger. No plasters or worth-
less face creams, lotions and massage, no masks, straps, steaming pots or apparatus, nothing to inject
in or under the skin, but a wonderful new process that any lady can use in the privacy of her own
home. Be sure to read the above article, and wmite to-day. Address: Mile. Eleanor Lawton, (Dept.
5548) 197 Regent Street. London, W., Eng.
SYDNEY “BULLETIN” FREE COUPON, No. 554 B.
If you do not wish to cut out this Coupon and enclose it with your letter, be sure and mention No.
554 B.
Amusements.
Rl (; K A KI) S’ T 1 V 01, 1 T H KA T K Ji.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS, Greatest Character Comedienne.
FERRY CORWEY, Musical Clown.
ALBERTO & CO., WILLIAMS & RANKEN.
Bonnie Leonard, Marie Quintrell, Bioscope.
PASQUALI BROS., Equilibrists.
E. FREDERIC HAWLEY & CO., in Vaudeville
Melodrama.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and 1/-
Ol’EltA HOUSE. MEL.RO UItN E.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
ROSA ROMA, Gipsy Violinist.
THE SCHMETTANS, Famous Continental Athletes
DOODY and WRIGHT, Knockabout Sketch Artists.
FRANK PARISH, Sensational Barrel Juniper.
THE FIVE PETLEYS, Trampoline Artists.
THE CLEMENDOS, Continental Acrobats.
PRIMROSE FOUR, Singers of Ragtime Harmony.
ALBERTI MARINI, Italian Tenor.
Plan at Allan’s. jHT-pRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
■T-lIE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anuerson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Australia of the Mirthful Musical
Fantasy,
THE LAND OE NOD.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Proprietors: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Geo. Willoughby Ltd. presents
an Entirely New Dramatisation of
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
ADMISSION: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C f WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production of the Stupendous Pantomime
Extravaganza,
THE EOBTY THIEVES.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Til EAT R E ROY a L. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY.
LEWIS WALLER, together with Miss MADGE
TITHERADGE, and a Complete Company, in
MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-. Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
OLYMPIA. O L Y M P I A.
1. Y M P 1 A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
«A#E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICT CUES THE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Birch & carkoll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland, for the General Film
Companv of /Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) rnder-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin.
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries.
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
IN the Estate of CARE ANTON WIIG,
otherwise called Carl Anders Wiig, or
Jansen, late of Ashley, Clinton, in the
Provincial District of Hawke’s Bay, Farmer,
deceased.
Information is required as to the where-
abouts of the widow of the abovenamed
deceased, known as Ann Wiig or Ann
Jansen (or her children, legitimate or
otherwise). She is a Swede, and she left
the deceased some 23 years ago and was
known to be in some part of Australia about
17 years ago, and was reported to have had
a child then living. She was also heard
of on the Gumfields north of Auckland.
She or her children, according to the date
of her death (if dead) are entitled to a
considerable sum of money now in the
Public Trust Office. The Public Trustee
will be pleased to receive any information
that may appear to relate to her.
J. W. MACDONAID,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington,
New Zealand.
A CORRESPONDENT writes: “There is
A always one feature in The Lone
Hand each month that is alone worth the
price charged for the whole number.” The
price of The Lone Hand is 6d.


LITTLE
MOTHERS
tee
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment. They
afford a pure, sweet and economi-
cal method of preserving, purify-
ing and beautifying the skin, scalp
and hair. For distressing eczemas,
rashes, itchings, inflammations
and chafings of infants, children
and adults Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment are most effective.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address It. Towns & Co.'
Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
dizziness.
Purely vege
table, never
fail. 1
fsd
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
r
ft
--or
. Y/,.
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. 6. ALLEN’S <u.s.ao
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulp'hur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
f
PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
o ; ty or country should miss.
4‘,
McLaren
Traction Engines
and Tractors.
8 H.P. Traction Engine.
McLaren Steam Tractors & Ploughs
Continue Their Unbeaten Record in 1913.
In the 1913 South African Ploughing Competition, open to all makers
of Steam and Oil Tractors, McLAREN was EASILY FIRST.
In the 1913 Algerian Ploughing Competition, open to all makers o 1
Steam and Oil Tractors, McLAREN was EASILY FIRST.
These Awards were secured on: — '
1. Low first cost of plant.
2. Low cost of working.
3. Quality of work done.
4. Quantity of work done in specified time
Full particulars of Traction Engines for Haulage or Ploughing, or for both,
supplied by Sole Agents for Australia: —
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
535 Kent Street, SYDNEY
430 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES'
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT Alil> THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. *
R
LOCAL]
W
l:':* 1'
4 y-
PATRIOTISM
.Your
Aim? e
Then have a^HOT
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
at smoking
_L
T
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & A/6.
Made in England*
tfhtcrvdf'*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beet Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
‘he oough of BRONCHITIS and
OQNBUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY .
&
\g
Ml
A Trial Will
Convince You
that Pebeco Tooth Paste is different from, and better than,
ordinary dentifrices. Are yon sure you derive from your
present dentifrice the greatest possible benefit? The fact
that dentists and doctors have recommended Pebeco for 20
years is a guarantee of its real worth. You yourself will
recognise its excellent properties if you try it.
OBTAINABLE ALL CHEMISTS.
Trial Tube with useful Book free for three penny stamps,
on application to the Sole Agent:—
G. ARNOLD
(Dept. M), 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney
C 2
(WHOLESALE ONLY).
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mr. Ocky”: Down at our little village they have
just installed a new plant in the beer factory, and I
have got inside information that the idea is to pro-
vide less “body” in the beer. They have found that
we get drunk too cheaply. In future we shall have
to take in more fluid and pay out more of the elusive
cash before we get happy. So the cost of living is
going to be higher than ever. I am afraid it will
mean that we shall have to knock off eating meat.
“Harbor Watch” (from an English shipyard) :
These figures were worked out by Mr. A. Cracie, the
chairman of the Fairfield Shipbuilding Co., who
ought to know what he’s talking about, and were
hammered into a lecture to the Institute of Civil
Engineers—who would probably have been uncivil
engineers if they’d caught the lecturer making a mis-
take in his sums. Take a vessel having a speed of
13 knots over a 3000-mile voyage. On a length of
400 ft., a ship would weigh 3700 tons, would carry
4000 tons of cargo, and would eat 500 tons of coal.
A vessel 500 ft. long weighs 6750 tons, humps 8700.
tons and swallows 700 tons of coal. So the 400-
footer requires 924 tons of ship and 124 tons of coal
to carry each 100 tons of cargo. The 500-footer
swings the same 100-ton swag for each 774 tons of
ship and eight tons of coal. There are already pure
cargo-carriers, as distinguished from mixed passenger
and cargo carriers, that are just under the 10,000
tons. And when the engineer civilly supplies figures
like these to the ship architects, it's a fair bet that
the trucks of the 12, 15 and 20 thousand tonners will
soon loom up over the horizon. That’s it, Melbourne
—keep on digging 1 Or hurry up and provide some
ship accommodation in a better port.
“Spud”: Bavin, the Ma State’s Commissioner, who
has been inquiring into the cost of living and how
to lessen it, has furnished reports on bread and
vegetables. He finds that the prices of both commo-
dities, particularly bread, are fixed by a trust or
combine, and suggests several minor remedies. One
is the sensible idea that, where possible, vegetables
be sold by weight and not by measure. The old
English custom of selling beans and peas by the
peck, and other lines, like tomatoes, by the dozen,
took root in N.S.W. in 1795, and is still followed.
It is 100 to one that the average householder doesn’t
know the capacity of a peck, and when she orders
half a peck is wholly unaware whether she is getting
that or seven-fifths of a bushel. The old plan of
selling by the dozen, as per sample shown at the
door, and then delivering by the size in the cart, also
meets with Bavin’s disapproval. Of course, his sug-
gestions won’t be adopted—at least, for a very long
time. They are so plainly sensible that the conserva-
tive and habit-cursed public is bound to suspect that
there’s a trick hidden somewhere in the innovation.
“Ledger-rester” : Re superphosphates (B. 11/12/’l3),
I don’t know what the S. Aus. winegrowers are kick-
ing at, for there is no duty on foreign manures, the
long-distance freights from Europe and Japan (15s.
to 225. 6d.) being regarded as offering ample protec-
tion. In fact, S. Aus. winegrowers may be flabber-
gasted to read that thousands of tons of.manures are
annually exported from Australia to Japan. Who
wants protection, anyway—the manufacturers in
South Aus., who have just comfortably combined in
a concern with a £400,000 capital, or the farmer,
who has to buy their products? With things as they
are, the honorable understanding in the Manure Com-
bine keeps the manufacturer’s sock 'well filled, more
so in Victoria and South Aus. than in the other
States.
“Collector” : The Postal authorities notified recently
that “complete sets of the current issue of Common-
wealth postage stamps, lightly postmarked,” might
be purchased at the G.P.O. for 10s. a set. The set
included “kangaroos” from 4d. to £2, and the
new king’s head Id. Any philatelist would know
that 10s. is cheap for this lot, as a £2 stamp,
postmarked, costs about £1; wherefore, as soon as
the announcement appeared, I rushed to get in early,
before the dealers came along with guns—they had
been buying from collectors at high prices, and nat-
urally would be heavy losers. There was no cause
for them to worry, though, as the high values were
not postmarked, but merely stamped “specimen,”
and so were of practically no value. Considering
that the G.P.O. had obtained my money by false
pretences, I hurried back and desired a refund. The
clerk was apologetic, and the 10s. was handed over
promptly. But that shouldn’t end the matter —
there’s a kick, good and hard, owing to someone. I
don’t mind being beaten in a fair business deal, but
stamp fakes hit me* where I feel most tender.
“Wonga”: “Bucolic” (B. 11/12/’l3) is correct
in asserting that the wheat crops in the Ma State
are “not half what they ought to be,” but he is
needlessly excited about what is being done in the
educational way in America. Men who know both
countries, and also know what they are talking
about, certify that the Australian wheatgrower has
nothing to iearn from the Yankee. Our methods,
despite all the skite re “dry farming,” and so on,
are ahead of those general in Sam’s States. Likewise
our agricultural education, allowing for difference in
population and wealth, compares more than well with
the Amurkan’s. That country has grown affluent,
thanks to a strong Protective policy; but the farm-
ing has been rotten, with the result that money
is now being poured out in an endeavor to retrieve
a bad position. Our wheat lands and farm lands
generally haven’t been worn out in the same way
through bad farming, nor, thanks to the Agricultural
departments, are they likely to be now. The excep-
tion is the N.S.W. South Coast, where the trouble is
mainly due to land monopoly and tenant-farming on
a short lease, which is fatal to good methods. The
farmers’ experimental plots, started by the N.S.W.
Dept, some five years ago, are ahead of anything in
the practical educational line in America. They are now
being introduced in Canada. The real solid thing
we need to improve wheatgrowing here is not so much
education —there is plenty of that available, consider-
ing—but a stiffer land tax that will bring millions
of uncultivated acres under the plough, and make
present growers work their land better. They know
how to, but are too careless and lazy and affluent
to bother.
THE REAL ELYSIUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prison does not seem to be at all a bad place now.
I am told that the cooking- is really excellent.
—Justice Real, of Bananaland.
The boarding-house where I reside
Would drive a man to drink ;
Yea, even worse, it has, at times,
Of marriage made me think !
Each morning, when the breakfast gong
Clangs through the hall of hash,
I strike my hair thrice with a brush
And down the staircase dash,
And misery
Takes hold of me
When food that’s cold and raw I see.
My bosom filled with rage and hate,
I eat my food pell-mell ;
Beneath the stern hash-lady’s gaze
1 cringe, but yearn to yell:
“I’m leaving, madam, this day week l"
A sweet revenge! But, no,
I’ll stay, alas! and feed and curse,
And, maybe, never go!
I’ve looked around,
But have not found
A better hashhouse for a pound.
But still, it seems, there’s hope for one .
Who yearns for decent grub,
And finds it unobtainable
At boarding-house or pub.
I'll tear a copper’s uniform,
Or steal a blind man’s beer,
Poke borak at an alderman,
Or bite a bishop’s ear,
And then I’ll be
Supplied, you see,
With decent board and lodging free'l
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
!L3
"WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Rim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate,
weight 2|lb.
18s. 6d.
201-
f.
The above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
V...
■
"THE MAINE"
Pifie
Sheunng Pifle /parr.
' THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart e.isily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the forearm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, coii-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle —1/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
151-
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Sendforour p f j C g y S f
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
sdf
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage—2/- N.S.W., 3/S Inter-State.
42 6
/V
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
38iin., weight 3§lb., handles short or 1o j&
long cartridges, /O/Oi
Postage—l/6N.5.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
fi
22/6
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear
sights, weight 4£lb. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 35/-
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra.
dsf
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37iin., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anatomy,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/ - Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden ; simple home
methods tor curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4 ; Macfad-
den’s Building Vi.t a 1
Pow e r, 5/4 ; Health
Beauty, Sexual ty, 5/4
Strength from _ Bating
5/4 ; Macfadden's Level
oping Muscular Power
5/4 ; Science of Muscu
lar Development, 5/4
Superb Womanhood
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Physi
cal Culture v. Consump
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete. 2/2. AND ANY
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously Simple ! Simply Marvellous
ds
4
a
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6 ;
posted, 2/-
T wo - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d. ;
post free, Bd.
The Above Two Thicks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bcli.etin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Catalogues
HU EE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and ROOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
fd
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “FENANKLE,” New YorU.
fd
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF 1 NATURE AND ILLUST RATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with.over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, (id. How to Gkt Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
riNn’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly’s Art
or Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is id. All /.ola s,
including Nana, Is (id each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprims
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/0.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. -Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is (id. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and.the scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
Uod and My Neighbor, (id. Britain for the
British 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. ’ Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m
■
m
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1-48 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but a trout
which' the v feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapter-
are devoted to innumerable interesting suD.iects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action ot men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information emDraced
in its covers. The new -20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
bookseller to the commonwealth.-*®
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. GambiiKrs’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards. Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. ’ How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille., Is
post. How to Vamp ox Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, Is.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date. Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Sulk Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Like of Dome,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topper
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. I<reach
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s Ouiiik,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and man.'
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Oat
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VV aybacks, Is -d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. ißTEstablislied 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dk. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s I’okms, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarr Macfadder's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music coni-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAV.


A
MISS IVY SCHILLING
.. SWEARS BY ...
REXONA
±
Probably the most sensational items ever given on an
Australian stage are the wonderful “Black and White” dance
and the gorgeous “Spider Dance,” given by Miss Ivy
Schilling and that noted artist and dancer, Mr. Fred Leslie,
in the brilliant revue, “Come Over Here,” which is now
proving such a brilliant success at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney.
Miss Ivy Schilling was the winner of West’s Pictures
Surf Sirens’ Competition, in which close on 100,000 votes
were recorded. Her figure is a perfect model of athletic
symmetry and grace. To preserve its litheness, its vigor,
and-, its strength, she uses REXONA.
This is what the admired acrobatic actress says:—
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
The Manager, “Rexona,” Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in recommending'
your Rexona, for I have been using it constantly for
some time. As a rub-down after acrobatic dancing, and
a magical reviver to strained muscles, I have found it
excellent. After surfing it is invaluable as a protection
against sunburn and freckles. It is a wonderful healer,
and I always keep a tin of it handy.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) IVY SCHILLING.
There are so many uses for Rexona that a pot of this
New Rapid Healing Ointment should be kept in every
home. One day it may be useful to cure sunburn, another
day to cure pimples, heal the cuts, bruises or scalds
which are for ever occurring in everyday life. Again,
for the more serious complaints, such as Rad Legs, Riles,
Eczema, Ringworms, and the various forms of Skin
Disease, Rexona is a proved remedy.
Rexona is sold in triangular pots at 1/6, or in larger
pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not giue them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Your Cycling
will cost you less
if your choice is right at purchasing time.
You may be offered a bicycle at a lower
price than one built with Genuine B.S.A.
Fittings, but think of the days to come,
when reliability and easy cycling will
mean a great deal more to you than the
saving of a few shillings at buying time.
Remember, when you buy a B.S.A. you alwaya get
full value for money—you get a machine that you
will be proud of, and one that will fetch twice the price
of a “ pattern ” machine should you wish to dispose of it.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOB
THIS MABK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
fIUKUMB
B.S.A.
B.SA.
SPAKE
PABTS
OBTAINABLE
EVEBY-
WHEBE
IN
AUSTBALIA.
BSA
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
Fittings
Cheapest
in ihe end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <O, SONS LTD.
J
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Over the Roofs and Far Away.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DUSK oil my eyes and lips—
And the curtains stir in a breath
From the quenching West, where the
still day slips
To the dreams that are kin to death ;
And the amber linger the late sun laid
Has travelled my sill’s slow length, and
slid
Over its edge to the under-shade —
And the hint of a storm bides hid
Xeath the half-dropped lids of the sullen day
Over the roofs and far away.
Still, by the salt winds blown,
Fapped by the shore-spent swell,
Under the cliff lies the ragged stone
That fell with me when I fell
Through a horror of emptily-clutching hands.
Wind, and a void, and the black Un-
known. .. .
Then the glimmering waking, on beaten
sands,
r To the fight that I must fight alone —
The heart of a man in a husk of clay—
Over the roofs and far away.
What marvel, then, that I hide
These shoulders and shattered breast —
I who own pride—as a man has pride—
Speech, hearing, a soul —the rest
The shred of the shred of a man, a thing
Of powerless hips and of trailing feet,
Ford of the lore that the drab days bring
- To this window and strip of street-
let water and warm winds plash and play
Over the roofs and far away.
Has this strong pulse ceased to beat,
Or these straight eyes told of tears?
Have I quailed from (he pain, or feared to
ea t
The bread of the hodden years?
And in days to come, as in days agone,
Shall not my heart, in the husk of it —
.this broken body—still blunder on
.f ° the end that the Fates have writ
'Vith a linger of blood on a page of grey,
Over the roofs and far away?
Thicket and tangled creek,
These were my birthright plain,
Morm, and the hush when the gullies reek
With the earth-scent after rain,
Orey light on the upland freshly-dewed,
Hollows of brush where the mist hung
still,
dhe whitening ridge where the rocks pro-
trude
Like the bones of the shrunken hill,
And the rushing scarlet of sudden day—
Over the roofs and far away.
et woods where the frayed neat swings
In the riot of windy June,
llie volleying rushing of upward wings
'ti r T * dl<! ue °f the coast-lagoon,
ne chatter of water on hidden bars
lhat the mottling silver of moonshine
hoods,
And the silence of far, faint, clustering
stars—
God’s garden of breaking buds—
scattering fragments of dreams that stray
Over the roofs and far away.
sand, and the shelving shore,
Where the swerving surf-line comes
Bilging the beach with the thrashing roar
Of a million million drums ;
1 \v-VvT ni u l '' ar oapes faintlv-brown,
WUh their creamy knees in the haze
a-hft,
And th ( [n; iunge of the mad 'gulls screaming
the veil of the back-blown
7 lie fire lias fallen In ashes grey
Over the roofs and far away.
N.S.W.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.
A Star by Accident.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LAST night some preposterously wealthy
relatives shouted me a seat in the
front row of the stalls, to see Regin-
ald Dusk and his London company plav
Heart of My Heart.” There is no need to
describe either the play or Reginald. The
pi ess *agent these days does his work very
thoroughly. Only the blind and the utterly
illiterate have a chance of escaping him;
and so the good looks and genius of Reginald
will get no free advertisement here.
During the great love scene in the third
act. Dusk turns his hungry gaze off the
perfect form and features of his leading
lady, Margaret Paris,, and stares soulfully
over the footlights. Well, last night, I was
right in his line of vision, and, seasoned star
as lie is, he flinched perceptibly and nearly
spoiled the scene. The reason is that I am
one of the only two living people who know
that he is merely a star by accident.
One of my bad habits is organising and
stage-managing amateur entertainments
which_ rake in a small amount of money for
charities, at a great expenditure of time,
inconvenience, etc. If I merely shoplifted,
good people would do their best to reform
me. As it is, good people who are inter-
ested in small charities come along at inter-
vals and incite me to drive a lot of unwilling
folk together and raise £lO or so by three
months’ rehearsals and an indefinite but
large expenditure on chocolates, fares, etc.
However, it is not altogther a waste of
effort. There have been at least four mar-
riages amongst my various bands of enter-
tainers. Bub that is by the way.
Mrs. Charles Rembly, stout, 35 or so. and
a committee-woman of half a dozen minor
charities, had availed herself of my services
on four or five occasions ; so when she called
to see me early on- morning I assumed that
the Destitute Cannibals’ Handkerchief Fund
was running low again.
But it wasn’t that at all. Neither was
my early caller the self-possessed patroness
I knew. I was confronted, on entering the
morning room, by a distracted woman with
her expensive hat slightly on one side, and
suede-gloved hands tightly clasped.
Her confession lasted one hour by the
clock. A competent sub-editor would have
put it. all into a paragraph ; but one can’t
sub-edit female' callers, and I had to let her
run on and on while T thought of something.
(She had intimated that she would not
leave, the house until I did so.)
Briefly, Mrs. Charles Rembly had made an
ass of herself. Mr. Charles Rembly having
taken to bowls and whisky at an unreason-
ably early age, *he had appointed a hand-
some bank clerk, some years her junior, to
be her social A.D.C. The young man had
been most useful and charming; but on the
previous evening, after seeing his employer
home from a charity dance meeting, he had
forgotten himself and kissed her. Unhap-
pily, at that very moment, Mr. Charles
Rembly appeared at the door. What was
to be done:' A stout, bowl-playing husband
must always be supplied with an explana-
tion. Mrs. Charles Rembly (she confessed
this with sniffs) had risen to the occasion
with an inspired lie. She told her husband
that she and Mr. Smithjohn were rehearsing
their scene in the comedietta which Miss
West (myself) was "getting up” for the
cottage hospital. So my work was made
plain. I had to hustle round and find, at
any cost, a comedietta in which Mr. Smith-
john and Mrs. Rembly could have a love
scene.
As soon as possible I drove the tearful
lady off the premises and lied for my hat.
As I drove the hatpins home I assured
myself that two more unlikely artists than
my prospective pupils had never yet been
discovered. Then 1 hurried off to catch the
10.20 into town. The comedietta had to be
found before evening, for Mrs. Rembly had
invited her sullen and suspicious husband to
witness the second rehearsal. (Of course it
was really the first.)
After a two-hours’ search through the
town bookshops, 1 got three copies of a pain-
ful, two-character thing called "Broken But-
terflies.” One of these I sent to Smithjohn
at the bank, with strict instructions to study
the man’s part hard and know it in some
fashion before eight that night. The other
1 delivered into Mrs. Rembly’s fair and
trembling hands in her own drawing-room.
And I gave her an hour’s full-speed drilling
before I hurried home to tea.
At five minutes past eight I arrived in the
Rembly drawing-room, and found one watch-
ful husband, one sulky and reluctant
admirer, and one wife, feverishly eager and
on the brink of hysterics.
With as little delay as possible we opened
our books and started in a panic to get
“Broken Butterflies” into shape for the pub-
lic, the audience of one being moodily atten-
tive on the sofa.
At first my copy shook in my hands' from
nervousness. Later, as I realised how
stupid my characters were, and counted their
idiotic mistakes, it wavered before my eyes
from sheer anger. Mrs. Rembly, poor
woman, did try to do what 1 told her; but
Smithjohn proved himself a perfect lout —-
and a dull one at that. He received my
advice with scowls and sneers, and generally
played the sulky boor to perfection. His
acting of the lover —there is no other word
for it —was rotten. And he didn’t seem to
care whether it improved or not, despite my
appeals and the imploring looks the desperate
Mrs. Rembly gave him from time to time.
Rembly, the bowler, was quite amused at
my frantic stage-managing, and began to
interrupt with the irritatingly-foolish re-
marks which Qnly a dull man can make
when in a malicious mood. I managed to
contain my anger so far as he was con-
cerned ; but when he strolled out to get a
cigar I stopped the rehearsal and spoke
blistering words to the unspeakable Smith-
john. I did not spare him in the slightest,
and by the time I was through—it must
have been nearly 15 minutes—he looked
thoroughly cowed.
“You will never make an actor!” I con-
cluded viciously. “Never as long as you live !”
“I think you’re wrong,” drawled a fatuous
voice behind me. It was the dull Rembly
come back again. “I think he’s doing capi-
tally—cap-i-tally !” We resumed in haste,
and the lamentable person for whose befool-
ment we were doing it, sat there and blew
clouds of smoke, and approved and praised
just as if he were an intelligent human being
with real opinions of his own.
We got through that night—and about 16
more like it. By that time, Rembly was
actually bragging about his wife,and “that
clever young chap, Smithjohn.” He was so
proud of them that he dragged four of his
bowling friends to the charity concert, at
which a number of suffering suburbans were
forced to endure “Broken Butterflies,” as
rendered by my two disastrous pupils. After-
wards he led the applause and handed up the
expensive flowers he had bought himself. I
suppose it was a triumph—of a sort.
. Shortly after that function —it resulted
in a splendid profit of £7 3s. 2d. —Smith-
john vanished from suburban society, owing
to. some misunderstanding at the bank. I
think they found out that he had not been
living altogether on his salary, or something
of that kind. Anyhow, there was no prose-
cution, and only a light breeze of scandal.
Smithjohn simply dropped out and was seen
no more until he got a job as “super” in
the big, spectacular piece, “The Chains of
Nineveh.” The stage-manager was a famous
stage general, and one night, when someone
fell ill, he glanced over his crew for someone
to fill the gap and picked out, almost at
random, “that big, handsome chap there.”
The stage-folk still tell with gusto (he
fearful job that footlight Napoleon had to
drive some intelligence into the splendid head
of the statuesque Smithjohn. lie took him
away at last to a dressing-room and shut the
door on his language. But those in the
remote parts of the theatre could still hear
liis shouts and howls of fury, and the scorch-
ing speeches for which he was notorious. It
is even asserted by those who ought to
know that he used his fists and feet on the
handsome blockhead; but. whatever he did,
Smithjohn, at that dreadful performance,
absorbed the first essentials of a dramatic
education. Aided by his physical beautv he
played his small part decently and started
his long, upward climb.
And last night, at painfully short range,
and from a seat I couldn’t have afforded!
out of my own pocket, I looked into the eves
of Smithjohn again. Seven years of study,
travel and association with clever people
have transformed him. He has become
Reginald Dusk. He acts —like a genius.
Some good critics say. he is a genius. 7
don’t know! But, in the seat behind, I
heard a stouter and balder Rembly telling
his party and the house generally‘that his
wife used to act constantly with the star.
And Mrs. Rembl.v, the woman I salvaged
only with great difficulty, was smiling and
preening herself like —well, like a perfect
ass!
PIERRETTE.


J
e
Zam-Buk Comforts
and Heals Soothes
Swelling and Aching—and Strengthens and Stimulates the Feet.
ZAM-BUK lias proved a splendid cure for foot troubles. When the
feet ache or smart, and feel hot, tired and swollen, wash them in
warm water, and then rub the soles, ankles and insteps freely
with Zam-Buk. As Zam-Buk’s potent, healing juices sink through
the skin, they soothe the tissues, strengthen the tendons, and bring
real “foot comfort.” Chafed and blistered parts are strengthened or
healed, and hard growths are softened. Zam-Buk comforts and heals
hot, swollen, sweating feet, galled spots, and takes away the pain of
corns and bunions. There is nothing so good for the feet as Zam-Buk,
the ideal soother and perfect healer.
Sore Heels and Tender Feet.
“Being an insurance traveller,” says Hr. W.
Sims, of 139 Tynte St., North Adelaide, “I am a
lot on my feet, and very often suffer from sore
heels and tender feet. Upon the application of
your Zam-Buk Healing Balm the soothing effect
is wonderful, and in a short time my heels are
quite sound again. I always have Zam-Buk in
the house for the use of my wife and children in
case of burns, scalds, etc., and have great
pleasure in recommending it to fellow-sufferers.”
Burning Feet and Sore Insteps.
Mrs. Gunson, of 157 Hoddle St., West Rich-
mond, Melbourne, writes : “ I am a canvasser,
and am, therefore, constantly on my feet. My
insteps became very tender and broke out in
sores. I applied different lotions procured from
the chemist, but they utterly failed to give me
relief. Seeing Zam-Buk advertised, I procured a
pot. Before I had used half of it, the sores were
all healed, and the burning, irritating feeling had
left my feet.”
EVERYBODY’S EVER-READY SOOTHER AND HEALER,
Keep a pot ol Zam-Buk handy for sunburn, rashes, insect bites, prickly heat,
heat swellings, cuts, burns, bruises, chafings; sore legs, backs, ankles or feet;
pimples, eruptions, etc. Of all chemists, or post free from C. E. PULbOKU (Aus-
tralasia) LTD., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, for i/6, or 3/6 large pot.
Bu
f am
RUB IT lNf
Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly. What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
mm
SOMET
ft
ffl.
a
THIS
u
* *'Y'VW:
s
is
Af
r
BILIOUS
. DAY .
Your head aches, you feel dull and
generally miserable. Perhaps you are
bilious. Your system needs cleansing.
Take Chamberlain’s Tablets and the work
is done. They are easy to take, prompt
and pleasant in action.
A Story of the Sigatoka.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OBERT SYMON, aged 21, was steeped
rp in the passionate poetry of Robert
Louis Stevenson’s visions of Samoa,
and soaked in Louis Becke’s tales of Island
Life, when he, together with his new luggage,
was landed on the Suva wharf, and saw
crowding around him the dusky faces of Fiji.
There were rather too many white people
ou the wharf and in the streets to fit in with
Symon’s preconceived idea of the place; but
when he said something of the kind to Ilor-
rocks (who had been told off to meet the
new cadet and see him settled), that guide
assured him that there were “beastly tew
really nice people to know in the beastly
Symon was taken to a little hot box of a
bedroom at a second-class boarding-house on
the hill, still holding fast to his belief that
the Pacific Islands in general and liji in
particular, were an earthly paradise. And he
freely forgave Paradise its abominably cooked
food, and its swarms of mosquitoes, and a
rather fierce bout of the only fever in Suva—
influenza. , .. ,
A greater trial than all these things to-
gether to Symon was the mental attitude of
his fellow cadets to the natives. Ot course,
the “niggers” had to be looked after ; but
they were a dreadful nuisance, though not
bad workers, provided you booted ’em now
and then. “Sweated heathens” Horrocks
called them.
To Symon they were patient and proud,
with a gentle humility, and he discerned a
wealth of unspeakable poetry in tlieir sad,
dark eyes. He felt certain that, as soon as
he could speak their language, he would have
ready access to the romantic world of which
he had read. So nearly all the days were
spent in earnest study of the Fijian languages
(there was very little work for him at the
offices) ; also, many nights when he could
not sleep for the intolerable heat, found him
pouring over his books.
Then Biggies, S.M., wrote up from the
Sigatoka that the work was far more than
he could manage, and they must send him
down a clerk. Spagle-Hunt was almost en-
gaged for the fourth time within the year,
and, of course, did not want to leave town
and his romance. Horrocks was first favorite
in a tennis tournament just begun, and
couldn’t possibly be spared. When the Chief
tentatively put the case before Symon that
youth volunteered eagerly to go and do his
best. The only launch service stopped short
at Navua, 20 miles down the coast, and pas-
sengers had to walk the other 40 miles along
bush tracks, to avoid which Symon chose to
go the whole way in a native cutter.
Rotting copra and stale cocoanut oil are
not specially pleasant perfumes, and Tongan
Charlie’s cutter, in which Symon voyaged,
reeked of both. The wind, however, was
fair, and when Symon’s stomach refused to
be fed with cold boiled taro and tinned sal-
mon, he lay limply on the deck and dreamt
beautiful things about “holding up an out-
post of Empire,” and “bearing the white
man’s burden.” The stars were so near,
and so friendly, and he felt so like flying that
more than once he reached out and gripped
the gunwale to make sure that he was
awake. .
Charlie negotiated the narrow channel in
the reef and took his cutter up the river op-
posite the Magistrate’s house with the easy
confidence of the best pilot in Fiji. Then he
helped Symon and his boxes ashore by means
of the two planks on stilts which did duty as
a wharf.
It was Sunday afternoon, and some naked
Fijian children were bobbing up and down
in the river; but no other human beings
were in sight. Had not Biggies, S.M., ex-
pected him? Possibly, though, he was busy
with church matters. Anyway, the house
was in sight behind a waving fringe of
nokonolco trees, so, taking up his smallest
bag, the cadet walked briskly up the grassy
path to the comfortable-looking bungalow.
Not a breath of the breeze which had
wafted them so speedily along the ocean
road outside the reef touched even the tops
of the mango trees along the river, and some
frangipanni bushes beside the gate made the
heavy air oppressive with a pungent sweet-
ness. Young Symon put his bag down in
the cool shadow of the verandah and rapped
at the open door. -
An Indian servant in spotless white, whose
bare feet made no sound on the polished
floor, answered the summons, and, to the
visitor’s great relief, answered his halting
Fijian in easy English.
“Verry sorry, but the Sahib is asleep, and
the Memsahib is also asleep. Will the
Sahib rest in a chair? And have a whisky-
soda? And view with reading the papers?”
Symon accepted the chair, the whisky and
soda, and “viewed with reading” some
very old papers and magazines for a long
hour before Mrs. Biggies appeared in a
fresh white gown which made her unwieldy
figure 100k —even to the boy’s uncritical
eyes- —almost deformed with fat. Her small
black eves twinkled in an expanse of pale
yellow puffy face, and her hair was carried
up into an exaggerated pompadour. The
fat fingers were loaded with rings, and there
were various other signs that the vanity of
beauty remained where all other trace of it
had fled. The “mixed blood” showed in her
appearance and in her speech.
“I am ver’ sorry, but my husban ees not
well. He will be out by-un-bye. He deed
not expec’ you so soon this day.”
“No,” said Symon, “we had a fair wind.”
“We are ver’ sorry that we have not
room in thees house for you to sleep; but
the house ees ver’ small, an’ you will have
the more comfort en quiet in the bure. The
chil’ren will not then disturb you, no?”
Symon hastened to assure her that any
arrangement would suit him, and inquired
how he would get his boxes up from the
river.
Ahmedkhan, of the noiseless feet, was
called and addressed by Mrs. Biggies iu
fluent Fijian, and very shortly afterward
Symon sat on the side of a generous magi-
magi bed, in the twilight coolness of a grass
house, watching the dancing shadows of
the mango leaves outside the low-set door,
and trying to realise that for some months
to come it was to be his home.
At dinner that night he met Biggies,
S.M., and in a very few days learned that
this important representative of British
authority was seldom sober in the morning,
generally drunk in the afternoon, and always
at night. AH the work at the Mngis-
tracy which it was possible for Biggies to
get Symon to do, Symon did. Registrations,
report-making, and the interpretation of
native regulations alike were left to his
discretion.
Mrs. Biggies at first adopted the foster-
mother attitude, and looked closely after his
comfort. Symon was properly grateful.
Then he became aware of a change in Mrs.
B.’s attitude towards him. Thenceforward
he spent a lot of time planning how to keep
out of her way.
Days were long, for the work did not keep
him fully occupied, and the warm, sweet
nights were longer. His mastery of the
Fijian language was advancing rapidly, and
it was good practice to go down to the
native town near by and chat with the vil-
lagers. Then, too, the old Buli of Serua
kept very decent cigars and whisky, and he
had recently taken unto himself a young
wife who, by comparison with Mrs. Biggies,
seemed the very embodiment of physical
perfection. Her slender, round limbs, amply
displayed by her scanty native dress, moved
with the silken softness of a cat, while her
dark eyes alternately slumbered or flared in
the way that is common to the coquettes of
every race. Symon grew to know and love
Loata’s every little trick. And he would
watch her with furtive longing as, with
hibiscus blossom held in her strong, white
teeth, she took the surf in strong, clean
strokes with the other women. For Loata
was the best swimmer in a village where
even the babies can swim.
It was more than possible that it was
the furiously jealous Mrs. Biggies who fh-st
prompted the Buli of Serua to be suspicious
of the frequent absences of Loata, who, all
her life, had been as free to roam about the
reef or beaches as the very l)elo of her native
land. But for long the spying came to
naught, for Loata was, a favorite, and “Popi”
(Robert) had succeeded in making himself
very popular with all the younger people.
But Luck is a fickle goddess, and in the
first tender pink of a pearl dawning, the
Buli himself seized Loata by the wrist as she
slipped, heavy-eyed, from the door of
Symon’s bure.
Though startled, the girl made no cry,
and three hours later Symon went up to the
Magistracy whistling merrily and all uncon-"
scious of the news which there awaited him.
Biggies met him on the verandah, half
sober and wholly scandalised; and the
righteous Mrs. Biggies, being herself “a re-
spectable married woman,” shrilly prompted
her husband to further utterance whenever
he paused.
“It is so very bad for the honor of the
Service and all that sort of thing, you
know,” ended Biggies.
“An’ we took you in an’ were ver’ kind to
you, and this ees your gratitude,” from Mrs.
Biggies.
“I am sure the Governor will blame me
when the Buli tells him all,” cried Biggies,
almost weeping.
Symon was utterly bewildered. “Will you
kindly tell me what you are talking about?”
“He knows! He ees brazen like one—
like one” — but the lady could think of no
adequate comparison.
Biggies put on his most pompous magis-
terial air. “The Buli of Serua has been
here and reported that he caught Loata
coming out of your house before daylight
this morning, and in spite of all I could
say left in his cutter more than an hour
ago to report the matter to his Excellency
the Governor.”
Symon blanched. “And Loata?”
“He has taken Loata with him.”
Af-terward they said that they thought the
boy was about to faint; but he did not. The
color came back to his lips after a moment,
and he turned on his heel and walked
smartly back to his bure.
Had he been an “old hand,” or even the
average practical young man, much could
have been done in the way of smooth lying
to save the situation. An early appearance
in Suva, or even a properly-worded epistle,
might have altered everything ; but being a
romantic youth weighted with a literary
sense of chivalry, he attempted no explana-
tion to the sodden Biggies, but early and
late watched for any glimpse of flapping
sail, while the day lasted, and when the
light failed, listened for the “Sail-ho!” with
which Fijians hail the appearance of an
approaching boat.
* * * *
In Suva the Buli of Serua was received
coldly. The Governor rebuked his jealous
l’avings, and made him understand, finally,
that while he would certainly recall Symon,
he could not punish the woman. He was
informed, officially, that the accusation
would have to be proven, and that the pro-
per place to prove it was in a magistrate’s
court. Unofficially, he was given to under-
stand, in unmistakable terms, that it would
be more pleasant for all hands if nothing
more was said about the matter.
* * * *
Never was there a more beautiful morn-
ing than that on which the cutter Tui
Serua sailed like a white swan through the
passage, and round the Sigatoka River bend
to her anchorage near the village of Serua.
But there -was no shout of welcome nor any
jovous gi-eetings from the villagers as they
gathered slowly on the river bank. Per-
haps a sort of telepathic knowledge held
them silent. The anchor was lowered and
the sails furled, and, even when the Buli
stepped ashore, not an exclamation was
heard, as he stalked through the crowd
unouestioned.
But speedily from house to house, like
flame on dry prairie grass, there ran the
news that Loata was drowned. She had
fallen overboard, so the story ran, and
though her body had been recovered and
brought to Serua, she was dead.
It was like Biggies the Beast to insist
upon Symon being present at the official
inquiry. And what did it matter that the
slender body was all seared and torn around
the waist' where the Manila rope had
ploughed deep, as, too exhausted to swim,
Loata had been dragged in the wake of the
Tui Serua to glut the vengeance of the
The verdict, founded upon the testimony of
eye-witnesses, was “Accidentally drowned.’
* * * *
Symon made a fearful mess of the job and
of the office, in which he was inconsiderate
enough to do it. The bullet even ploughed
a hole in the court-house wall nearly as big
as that in his own head. But the doctor s
certificate read : “Acute dysentery.” Which
was less painful to his people in England[
than the brutal truth.
J. S. GRIFFINTHS.


WESTINGHOUSE
CHAIN DRIVES
USK ■
* ' If 1
>- 1 'saafefS&^v :/ ; ■;!»*#. P
ißraw©* l
rx
SSB I
It
w»
s •«■*»
i
V
. .
~«SSK
*a#ww»s
V'.uAU. X”
; .
a
..•in&S A.j
Ox/
■
:
■ -‘. . -
v 11 ' *
- f I % V L
■ X,
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
- &
Siient in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Churoh, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, WellinMttn.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
hoj mn aooo
/JpeXiqR
ESSe^!
NOT a Boiler Fluid, but a Preparation containing Pure Carbon to be applied
to the internal surfaces of boilers like a paint. Absolutely prevents pitting and
corrosion and the deposit of hard scale. Used regularly by the New South
Wales Government Railways and Tramways, Sydney Municipal Council, and
many of the Largest Steam Users in Australia.
AULD’S REDUCING VALVES.
The World's Standard Reducing Valve for Steam, Ait or Water. Simple and
Reliable. Hundreds in use in Australia. We carry heavy stocks of all sizes.
ALSO AGENTS FOR-
Engelbert’s Famous Oils, Nichols’ Boiler Feed Pumps,
Stirling Water Tube Boilers, etc., etc.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 CLARENpE STREET, SYDNEY.
Metz-“22 ” £l9O
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and. Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 K.R., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
>e nritish-bui
Waverley, *350.,
Indian Mo to cycles,
Ssg'ns.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St* South Melbourne.
§ARMST*OMG
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machtm
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses K Wagons, etc., etc.
ASTHMA CURE
BRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervons Cotißhi,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
E'XTES./ Sold by all Chemitts. ,
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the 6kin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane,
THE LONE
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
'Ss
• TjV®!
7*
/
/
s
/
/
/ '
/
1
111/
/
|i."
/
nvi
JU
/\\\\\m, V" -=^ v
/
/
/
/
/
/
«
/
Ml
//
f
ff
as
as
RHIJS
TO
/
9
m
i
i
m
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, BYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED, McWILLIAM, Manager.
20th century Band saw.
KIRCHNER’S
Woodworking Machines
are giving satisfaction.
Write for Catalogue and Information
direct to the
MANUFACTURERS—
KIRCHNER & GO.,
32 Market Street, SYDNEY
Automatic
Knife Grinding
Machine.
fsd
Drilling Machines,
Punching and
Shearing Machines,
Shaping Machines,
Lathes,
Milling Machines,
Radial Drills,
Electric Drills and
Grinders,
Morse Small Tools,
And a Full Range
of Accessories.
This is the Day of
The High-Speed
Machine Tool.
You must either speed up or speed out. The man whose
machine tools work fast and efficiently has a big pull
over the old-fashioned shops. If you have been letting
“sleeping dogs lie,” take the advice of those who closely
follow machinery matters, and modernise your shop as
quickly as possible. Better be sure than sorry.
You will say we are grinding an axe for ourselves. And
you say truly. But while our big stock of modern tools
ensures us advantage from this advice —it’s sound from
your standpoint, too.
So get in touch with our expert at once. Ask for details
of any modem tools in which you are interested. Prompt
replies are a feature of the Goodall system.
T. M. GOOMLL 8 CO., Ltd.,
Universal Machinery
Merchants - - -
City 6427-8.
303-5 Kent
Sydney.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Kire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vern|in-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
VS rite for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
mack ltd.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
isN
fi-
fe
M
%
I 2in. Pan
taking
45 Watts.
If A MC For All Voltages
r /ill O aft d Systems.
Slocked in Desk, Wall and Ceiling Types.
Rigid Body, Swivel and Trunnion, and Oscillating Patterns.
PRICES MODERATE. Send forJJsts.
Ed®]®?#*#
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd 4
SYDNEY : Wynyard Lane.. 3520 city.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street. 5117 city.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul 8 Roma Streets. 3676 central
Hardig s Genuine
m
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaste,
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PRnm?
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
mr Tut
\ 3s
r''
x>
tamo
DALGETY& C9LT?
AGEBTS.— —
OH\OH
“ union M Harvester
m
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
Tangye Kerosene OIS Engine.
DALGETY 8 COMPANY, LIMITED.
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and
all Branches.
AGENCIES
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
~, descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc
mrHOTSOV Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
& MORROW: Union’ Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
W OLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
BLAKE
Simplex Pumps
Duplex Pumps
Condensing and Non=
Condensing Pumps
Pressure Pumps
Tank Pumps
Outside Packed Plunger
Pumps
f
Vertical Sinking Pumps
Compound Pumps
Belt Driven Piston
Pumps
Belt Driven 3-throw
Pumps
Centrifugal Pumps.
PUMPS FOR ALU PURPOSES.
Call or send us your enquiry andl we will quote you prices and send you details and illustrations
of the most suitable Pump for your purpose.
H. P. GREGORY 8 CO.
74 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ENGINEERS and
MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
■£*
m
w
T
9 to 500 Horse-power.
fIARINE and
Stationary Models
using jßesidual Oil.
Consumption—
>£=pint per B.H.P.
per hour.
For Prices and full particu-
lars apply to Sole Agents :
WARBURTON, FRfINKI, LTD.,
307-311 Kent Street ,
■' SYDNEY.
Sole Agents :
DAN GAR GEDYE <a CO.,
Young Street, Sydney.
P/2
IS
Shrewd judgment prompts install-
ing the “Lister.” Actual working
and time con firms it.
AH parts guaranteed to fit the
Woiseiey.
When requiring spare parts order
“Lister.” They are unequalled.
J " 6.-?
ass
SUNSHINE ENGINES
for driving C^V a * fcu * ters ' f aw Benches, Pumps, Dynamos, Graders, Hoists, Mortar Mills, etc.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Vic. Adelaide——Brisbane Sydney Melbourne.
,foUEAR
I SOLUTION
piStHAROE
m
LAUNOE
THE DORR THICKENER
The only approved mechanical device which will continuously decant
a liquid in a clear state from finely divided material, such as slime or
fine sand, held by the liquid in suspension, and will deliver at the
same time the thickened material as fast as it is formed, either
continuously or intermittently as desired.
ADVANTAGES OF DORR THICKENER.
Small cost of operation and installation—larger, capacity and higher
extraction—reduced head room and economy of water.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS— ’
N. GUTHRIDGE L™,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
