

MELLOWED BY AGE.
Machinery Merchants)
107 Kent Street;,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted »u all parts of New South Wales
Sydney,
Mining Requisites.
New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
Oxx all Classes of SECURITY,
.
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
NSWMONT DE PIETE D Q
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 Qeorge Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swaaston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: No. 225 Central.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
H Tmfiaflm! \m
l i CTi-1 LIM T »
■M-E. w
05
OtPOSj
CQMWf.ffCUI CHWBEBS M 1/4 HVW HtfWT DtmT
SOBJLEtT,
Ttffi
fiadley’e Orient jjotel.
RICHARDSON’S
WINE and
SPIRIT STORES,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
POTTLE. CASE or GALLON at Wholesale Prhso.
fd
i !_y H'.j'jj Hi!,LI
&UARANTKKB
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Let,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
msßot
BAMS«BACDfi
S.H.6.
fdg
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine
is recommended by numerous doctors
highly nutritious and invigorating
digestive organs.
Tablets
as being
for the
I
unke
HAN S E NS
rAII
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acta
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize Medals.
PALMER CORD
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
fg
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.
sydney-melbourne-newcastle
f fgd
DRINK
#
Xshe Uses of
P&B
P& B Building Paper is made of carefully selected Fibre, which gives it great tensile strength. It
is saturated and coated with P & B Compound, which makes it durable, waterproof and odorless.
It will not change nor deteriorate with age, nor be affected injuriously by fumes, vapors, earth
gases or atmospheric changes. For these reasons it is used for—
LINING CEfIENT BAGS and CA
WATERPROOFING FLOORS
)Mf
INTERLINING WALLS, ROOFS, Etc.
FRUIT-DRYING TRAYS
in other ways.
fgd
&he Paraffine Paint Co., Challis House, Sydney
Manufacturers of MaltHoid.
Agencies
Everywhere.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY II s ?
ďfg
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“QUEEN OF STATES” BACON and HAMS.
W QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
H ELI DON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
STARKEYS LTD., Agonts,
Phillip Si., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35 No. 1782.]
[Thursday, April 9, 1914.
Registered at the General Peat Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BEST NOVELS
Sinclair’s Sylvia.
Dejean’s House of Thane.
Casey’s Libby Anne.
Ray: On Board the Beatic.
Wood: Five Years and a Month.
Fedden’s Spare Room.
Hughes's .Amiable Crimes of Dirk Memling.
Edgar s Red Colonel. B
Wallin’s Idonia.
Gull’s When Satan Ruled.
Ford’s On With Torchv.
Chesterton’s Flving Inn.
Hazard’s W. iderer’s Necklace.
Willoughby's The Victims.
Martin’s The Parasite.
ALL AT 3s. 6d. PER VOL. POSTED. 3s. Qd.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON & C 0„ PROP’T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic Powder. SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH.
The Lancet, London, January 17, 1914, states:—
EUMENTHOL TOOTH-POWDER.
‘This tooth-powder is designed on sound principles and is very
agreeable to use. The distinctive feature about it is that, in addi-
tion to some approved germicides, it contains magnesium peroxide,
which readily parts with free oxygen, as our experiments have
shown. This probably leads to a favorable cleansing action upon
the mouth and a slight whitening effect upon the teeth. The
powder is finely divided and is free from harmful constituents and
gritty substances. Analysis shows that the powder is capable of
giving off oxygen equal to 1 cubic centimetre per gramme. This
disengagement of oxygen leads to the formation of a pleasant
and wholesome foam.”
Sold by all Chemists in our patent stopper metal
bottles, handy for travel or home, price 1/6, for-
warded post free on receipt of stamps.
HOW TO USB TH* NWOH
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL CO. LTD., 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Forwarded Free, our New Book containing Valuable Information regarding the Teeth. [X.
The Red Page
John Christopher
Every author has at Some time thought of
writing his own autobiography in full—of
setting down with perfect frankness every
thought, every experience of his own life,
wit mut heed of personal consequences,
brutally exposing the intimaei.es of friend-
ships and affections, making a human docu-
ment that would prove invaluable. Such a
book would require a shelf or two-of a
library to shelter it; it would run to many
millions of words. Mark Twain started it
too late: he should have written the first
chapter as soon as he was able to hold a
pen But could any writer tell, without bias,
with perfect frankness, his own story? The
autobiographies of the world answer “No.”
Rut to Romain Rolland came the idea of
putting this method to the test in fiction:
ie conceived the gigantic idea of creating a
hero and telling his life story in a series of
volumes, discarding any artifice of plot, let-
ting the narrative run like a river from
spring to ocean, and bearing on its sur-
face every shadow, every floating twig, every
cloud or shaft of sunlight that fell on it.
ouch a work is John Christopher, published
in four volumes, incorporating the ten vol-
umes of the original French, and admirably
translated by Gilbert Cannan (Ileinemann,
per Lockley Library and Dymock’s Library,
Sydney).
John Christopher is a musician of genius,
born in poor surroundings, a Gorman in-
heriting peasant manners, but with a mind
satisfied with nothing but the truth—a mind
tiiat, through life, had to hurl itself every-
wliere against shams, and in consequence
sutler. The first volume, Dawn and Morn-
ing, takes John Christopher from the mo-
ment of his birth to the age of fifteen. The
psychology of the mind of the infant is
done with an astounding insight. Each
reader will recognise throughout the book—
so universal it is—the thoughts apd hap-
penings of his own almost forgotten child-
hood. Early in youth the hero gave evi-
dence of his musical precocity, and in the
little Rhine town of his birth he soon
wins recognition for his as yet immature
abilities. His home life is detailed with a
stern disregard for the sentimentalities of
fiction. The boy’s first contact with death,
his innocqnt childish “love-affair”—there is
no other word for the first stirrings of the
amatory sense —with another boy; his meet-
ing with woman, in the person of a .vapid
little girl, and his agony when the absurd
affair is squelched by the sensible mother-
there is no love so terrible as calf-love—are
incidents that refuse to be forgotten. At
the end of this first volume Christopher is
but fifteen; but already he has suffered per-
haps the greatest agonies that must fall to
his share.
The second volume, subtitled Storm and
Stress, includes the third and fourth vol-
umes of the original. Here John
Christopher is 16 years of age, and Rolland
pictures, in some wonderful passages, the
chaos of adolescence.
Christopher was growing a new skin.
Christopher was growing a new soul. And
seeing the worn-out and rotten soul of his
childhood falling away he never dreamed
that he was taking on a new one, young and
stronger. As through life We change our
bodies, so also do we change our souls ; and
the metamorphosis does not always take
place slowly over many days; there are times
of crisis when the whole is suddenly renewed.
A life dies. Another life has already
come into being.
The birth-throes of this new soul are
strangely described:—
Christopher, under illusion, at fullest
stretch, shook The veil was rent. He
was blinded. By a flash of lightning he
saw, in the depths of the night, he saw—-he
was God. God was in himself; he burst the
ceiling of the room, the walls of the house.
He cracked the very bounds of existence. He
filled the sky, the universe, space. The
world coursed through him like a cataract.
He was breathless; he was drunk with
the swift hurling down into God Fire of
Being! Hurricane of Life! Madness of
living—aimless, uncontrolled, beyond reason
—for the fury of living!
There follows this precocious youth’s love
for Sabine, exquisitely told; but after her
death, he found that already he was begin-
ning to forget her.
He would return again and again, faithful
to the tryst. He wished to think of her, and
he would close his eyes. But after half an
hour, or an hour, or sometimes two hours, he
would begin to see that he had been thinking
of nothing He dedicated songs to her; he
strove to call her to life in -'his music, his
love and his sorrow. In vain Love and
sorrow looked toward the future, not toward
the past. Christopher was powerless against
his youth.
And promptly he was plunged into quite a
different love-affair. Ada was a shop-girl
of frank and easy morals, a little beast,
greedy, lazy, sensual. At last he cut her
out of his life, but he could not cut himself
free from himself. “Passion in itself is not
so dangerous as the ruins that it heaps up
and leaves behind.” Christopher became a
loafer, a drunkard like his father; but a
meeting with his old uncle Gottfried, who
mistakes him for his dead, drunken father,
pulls the youth out of the mire of his pas-
sions. A stupendous spring of musical in-
spirauon had come t-p him, and with his new
sight he judged everything, “ide saw the
German lie.” Every race, every art has its
hypocrisy; every nation'has its own lie,
which it calls its idealism: every creature
therein breathes it from birth to death.
He saw German art stripped. Emotion
overflowed, moral nobility trickled down,
their hearts melted in distracted effusions;
the sluice-gates were opened to the fearful
German tenderheartedness; it weakened the
energy of the stronger, it drowned the weaker
under its greyish waters; it was a flood; in
the depths of it slept German thought.
Staegered by this discovery. Christopher
desperately studies the works of the
musical classics. His criticism of these
masters, still hallowed in Australia, will be
interesting reading to our own concert-
makers. _ All the big are there, each
with his contemptuous tag.' Henceforth, it
is plain to Christopher that his future is not
in Germany. After an interlude or so, one
quite .innocent —with a charming little gov-
erness, and another- —also innocent—
with a delightful actress, Christopher, having
aroused the hostility of his native town by
his outspoken criticisms of the musical gods
of this people, makes up his mind to leave
for Paris. But his peasant mother puts the
heavy barrier of her crude love across his
path; and the son stays. But in the end
chance sends him flying across the frontier
Irom arrest for participation in a peasants’
brawl.
Jt
In the third volume. John Christopher in
Paris, comprising the three volumes of the
original. The Market-Place, Antoinette, and
the House, we suddenly discover that
Itolland’s hero is not his musician at all, but
France, and his heroine. Paris. John
Chiistopher comes to Paris, as one Would
come to Paradise; and the slow process of
his disillusion occupies the whole of the 470
pages of this instalment. At first he has
immense difficulty in making a living, and
at the last he has succeeded merely in keep-
ing alive. But from the bitter, brutal,
struggling musician John Christopher
emerges at last as a sane man, conscious of
his. power, hut cured of his bitterness. A
serious illness washes his soul clean from
cynicism; the story of Antoinette, the
brench governess whom he had met in Ger-
many, shows him the pathos and the beauty
ot life; and his friendship with Antoinette’s
brother gives him a new interest and a new
outlook. In Antoinette Holland has drawn
a wonderful, picture of the capacity for s'elf-
sacnfice which is the great reserve strength
ot the humble Frenchwoman: her pitiable
devotion to her weaker brother, her joyless
hfe and her death, form a novel by itself.
Ihe volume is filled with criticism of French
Jci lSlt rr art ’ P atri °tism, politics. And in
Ihe House Holland shows by the stories of
the lives of all the dwellers beneath the roof
that sheltered Christopher how a tie can be
found—the tie is the robust and virile good-
nature of Christopher—that binds together
all these existences. But it is for its criti-
cisms of things French, and not for its
scarcely-moving story, that this third volume
will be read.
He spent some time in watching the-little
orange-trees in tubs growing in the hothouse
ot Auatole I ranee, and the delicate, perfect
flowers clambering over the grave-like soul
ot Barres. lie stayed for a moment or two
before the genius, part sublime, part silly, of
Maeterlinck; from that there issued a polite
mysticism, monotonous, mumbling like some
vague sorrow. He shook himself, and
plunged into the heavy, sluggish stream, the
muddy romanticism of Zola, and when he
emeiged from that it was to sink back and
drown in a deluge of literature
The submerged lands exhaled an odor di
Jemma. Ahe literature of the day teemed
with effeminate men and women. It is well
that women should write if they are sincere
enough to describe what no man has yet seen:
the depths of the soul of a woman. But only
very few did that; most of them only wrote
to attract the men. Since they were no
longer religious, and had no confessors to
whom to tell their little lapses., they told
them to the public. There was a perfect
shower of novels, almost all scabrous, all
affected, written in a sort of lisping style, a
style scented with flowers and fine .perfumes
sometimes too fine—sometimes not fine at
all—-and the eternal stale, warm, sweetish
smell. Their books reeked of it....
The writers of Paris were unhealthy; or
it one of them happened to be heallhy, the
chances were that he was ashamed of it • he
disguised it, and did his best to catch some
disease.... With these people all tended to
sterile enjoyment. Sterile. That was the
key to the enigma. A brilliant art, full of
wit and cleverness, a theatre which was a
theatre, a style which was a style, authors
w-'iL fiT t l' eir badness, writers who could
write, the fine skeleton of an art, and a
t !n Ugh <* that had be i n great But a skele-
™%is°T° US rin s' m S Phrases, the
metallic clang of ideas hurtling down the
void, witticisms, minds haunted by sensu-
ality, and senses numbed with thought It
fn’ S r Ve for the sport of S egoism.
t led to death. It was a phenomenon analo-
gous to the frightful decline in the birth-rate
of Trance, which Europe was observing—and
reckoning—in silence.
But, later, Christopher learns that there
is another Paris:—
What he had seen of inner France had
upset all his preconceived ideas about th
characters of the French. Instead of a gaj
sociable, caieless, brilliant people, he sa\v
men of a headstrong and close temper, livin
in isolation, wrapped about with a seemin
optimism, like a gleaming mist, while the
were in fact steeped in a deep-rooted anc
serene pessimism, possessed of fixed ideas
intellectual passions, indomitable souls, whic;
it would been easier to destroy than t<
alter. No doubt these men were only the
select few among the French ; but Christo-
pher wondered where they had Come by their
stoieism and their faith.
His friend tells him:—
In defeat. You can have no idea of the
darkness in which we grew, up in a France
humiliated and sore, which had come face to
face with death, and still felt the heavy
weight of the murderous menace of force.
And that defeat by Germany has new-
created the soul of this people.
Though we are few in number, though we
seems so weak—a drop of Water in the
ocean of German power—we believe that
the drop of water will in the end color the
whole ocean. The Macedonian phalanx will
destroy the mighty army of the plebs of
Europe.
Of Paris there affe innumerable' descrip-
tions—this lover never wearies of describing
the face of his beloved, even when he hates
her. One fine evening, Rolland tells us.
“when above the darkening town the soft
sky was like an Oriental carpet, rich in
warm, faded colors,” Christopher saw the
city as “a dead giant lying prone upon the
plain.”
The terror of it clutched at his heart; he
stopped to gaze at the gigantic fossils of a
fabulous race, long since extinct, that in its
life had made the whole earth ring with the
tramp of its armies—the race whose helmet
was the dome of the Invalides, whose girdle
was the Louvre, the thousand arms of whose
cathedrals had clutched at the heavens, who
traversed the whole world with the trium-
phant stride of the Arch of Napoleon, under
whose heel there now swarmed Lilliput.
J*
The concluding volume, Journey’s End,
incorporates three volumes of the original
French, Love and Friendship, The Burning
Bush and The New Dawn. In it Rolland
attempts a synthesis of all the warring quali-
ties of his hero, John Christopher, and of
all the warring qualities of Europe and this
age. The story sweeps on with a growing
tranquility to John Christopher’s death
The last chapters are full of sorrow, but a
sorrow fiercely lit with another hope.
Early in the story we meet Jacqueline
w h° i ultimately marries—and deserts—
Olivier, the brother of the Antoinette whom
Christopher so loved. The picture of
Jacqueline’s youth is a most delicate pencil
drawing of the tremors and the happinesses
of a young girl’s heart. But after Olivier’s
marriage Christopher found the change that
marriage makes in a man.
A friend who marries may do what he
will: he cannot be the friend of the old
days. A woman’s. soul is, and must be,
merged in the man's. Christopher could
detect the woman in everything that Olivier
said and did, in the imperceptible light of
his expression, in the unfamiliar turn of
his lips, in the new inflections of his vpice
and the trend of his ideas. Olivier was
oblivious of it: but he was amazed to find
Christopher so different from the man he
had left. .. .There is much truth in the
saying that a man’s wife is his better half.
For a man married is but the half of a man.
Meantime there occurred Christopher’s
affair with a leading Parisian actress, in
whose lineaments the reader can discern a
certain likeness to Duse. Franchise tells
him the horrible story of her youth, how
from poverty she rose to be the greatest
actress of her day, and how she paid for
every step upward in the only way a woman
in her desperate position could have paid.
This affair, too, ends. Each is humiliated
in the knowledge that however much they
loved each other, they could not make each
other happy. “Never had they loved so
well as when they parted.”
Already the wreck of Olivier’s married
life is near. Jacqueline, - inheriting great
wealth, becomes bored with pleasures. And
Rolland finds excuses for her.
She was bored to death. How utterly
lonely a woman is! Except children, noth-
ing can hold her: and children are not
enough to hold her for ever: for when she is
really a woman, and not merely a female,
when she has a rich soul and an abounding
vitality, she is made for so many things
which she cannot accomplish alone and with
none to help her! A man is much less
lonely, even when he is most alone.... and
when he is lonely in married life he can
more easily put up with it, for he notices it
less, and can always live in the soliloquy of
his own thoughts... .He has not, like the
woman, staked his whole life on love: his
life has other occupations. What man is
there can fill the life of a woman and satisfy
her immense desire, the millions of ardent
and generous forces that, through the 40.000
years of the life of humanity, have burned
to no purpose, as a holocaust offered up to
two idols: passing love., and motherhood,
that sublime fraud, which is refused to
thousands of women and never fills more
than a few years in the lives of the rest?
Jacqueline leaves her husband and her
daughter; and Christopher finds his friend
Olivier again. Meantime he has won
through as a musician: he has silenced the
hordes of enemies his genius had created;
he is famous. Then comes an interest in
politics, acquaintance with the socialist and
the syndicalist ideas; and finally both
friends are drawn into a Mfiy day riot.
Olivier, that delicate dilettante, is killed;
and Christopher is drawn down from the
barricade by his friends and hurried over
the frontier. When he hears of Olivier’s
death his grief strikes him dotvn with a
serious illness. Recovering from this in the
house of a friend, lie enters unwillingly
into his strangest love affair —with his host’s
wife. He curses himself and her; he flies —
but is dragged back to the woman by his
infatuation ; yet in the end he manages to
break the chains that had so terribly bound
these stranger-souls together.
Another illness comes. Christopher is
drained of all his illusions. .. .and emerges,
after a delirious encounter with God, cured
and sane. lie finds that Germany and
France are only too eager to receive the
master that lie has become. Holland paints
wonderful pictures of the civilisations of
Switzerland, of Paris a,nd of Italy: he an-
alyses the European soul in all its national
diversities, and paints us that cosmopolitan
soul.
And now again he meets Grazia, a little
girl whom he had known in his youth. She,
too, has suffered, and has come out of her
trials cured. The two old friends love each
other, but Grazia will not marry him. She
has had enough of marriage. And then she
dies, and Christopher, grown old in peace,
sees united in marriage Olivier’s son and
her daughter. They, happy in their young
love, leave him to die —and he forgives them.
He lias learnt to forgive, to understand
humanity and the age. He is content. Fie
has come through. He sees life go on
and on— .He, too, is part of Life.
The translate! - claims that the work is
like a mighty bridge leading from the world
of ideas of the 19th century to the world of
ideas of the 20th.
The whole thoughc of the 19th century
seems to be gathered together to make the
starting-point for Christopher’s leap into the
future.... The truth about anything is uni-
versal truth, and the experiences of
Christopher, the adventures of his soul
(there are no other adventures) are in a
greater or less degree those of every human
being who passes through this life from the
tyranny of tlie_ past to the service of the
future.... By its truth and its absolute
integrity John Christopher is the first great
book of the 20th century. In a sense it
begins the 20th century. It bridges transi-
tion, and shows us where we stand.
London Times evidently thinks it neces-
sary to answer C. E. Jacomb, whose God’s
Own Country was recently noted in this
page. The Times reviewer mentions nine
well-known beauty spots in a continent that
C. E. Buncomb swears has not one. His
attacks upon Australian men, women and
children the reviewer characterises as un-
pardonable ; his statements about Australian
morality gross and crude, “and so misleading
that we decline to discuss them.” The re-
viewer guesses that C. E. Yahooeomb must
have had a very limited experience of Aus-
tralian clubs. “The best Australian clubs
generally strike the visitor as being con-
ducted. with a rigidity and propriety far
exceeding English practice.”
Mountains in the Mist (Kelly, London,
per Dymock’s Library), which the author,
Frank W. Boreham, subtitles, “Some Aus-
tralian Reveries,” are really healthy out-
door sermons on Australian texts. In his
Aqstralian Garden of Eden there is no
Wowser.
A tangible evidence of the existence of our
army is to be found in the publications of.
Lieut. R. Stupart: The Infantry Pocket
Boole, The Soldiers’ Musketry Small Boole.
Outposts and Advanced, Flank, and Rear
Guards, and The Art of Instructing in Aim-
ing and Firing (Angus and Robertson, Mili-
tary Publishers, Sydney).


u
nee
THE WINTER FASHIONS AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’
z
I
7/GS
■JSOZ
2SOi
73/9
*4/G
59/0
24CG
63/-
Send
for
Autumn
and
Winter
Fashion
Book
post free
on
request
Horderns' fieadit foWearCosfiiraes
inf
0
Z&57//
24/6
2407
>465
27/6 \
35/9
19/6
2.732/3
72/6
JV°. 2400.—-Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Brown Heather mixed Tweed, Coat has
Buttons Cuffs ° f BlaCk Astrachan ’ with Red P'P in g s ; Skirt trimmed shaped Seams and
29sB , —Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Black and White Shepherd’s" Check';'
lied Satin, has Black Satin Collar and Cuffs; three-piece Skirt with broad-lapped seam forming
3.t rOOl) p'pj /Q
21168.—-Coat and Skirt Costume, in smart Donegal Tweeds of Brown," Grey, or* Blue
eather mixtures; Coat has facings of Silk, and Self Strappings; four-piece Skirt, lapped seam
back and front /
NY*. 2oOIG. Pretty Coat and Skirt Costume, of soft Cheviot Serge, in Navy, Grey,
or Black; two-piece Skirt trimmed Self straps, piped contrasting shade of Velvet to
cuiresponci witn Coat
X o .2s o °s.—Coat and Skirt Costume, Of rough Cheviot Serge, in Grey," Fawn "oV Tan, with
« TV? at ° f BlaCk Satin : Skirt has lap P ed down centre front,
aenmg at foot, finished large Black and White Buttons corresponding with Coat. 39/0
No. 2857/1. Useful Robe Costume, in Black Poplin, new set-in long Sleeves, side front
fastening, ten-inch Basque, giving Coat effect, finished loop Buttons, Skirt lias lapped seams
back and front 24/G
No. 2497. Attractive Robe, in fine Whipcord Serge, new Raglan Sleeve, Collar and Buttons
"of Velvet, shaped, turned-back Cuffs, front fastening, four-piece Skirt with shaped lap seams;
Navy, Mole and Cinnamon 35/9
No. 2532/2. Very Durable Robe, Of Navy Rough Serge, Bodice has Raglan effect with
long Sleeves, turned-down Collar of Persian Pan Velvet, front fastening, trimmed Satin Buttons,
four-piece Skirt finished lap seams 12/6
No. 2485.—R0be of Fancy Tweed, suitable for good hard wear. Bodice has Raglan effect,
American Collar with Velvet Tie in contrasting shades, the Skirt has wide lap fold, and is open
in scallop style at sides; Brown and Blue Mixtures 19/6
No. 21833. An Effective Style, in Habit Cloth, Magyar Bodice with set-in three-quarter
Sleeves, Collar, Buttons and let-in piece on Sleeves are of the new Broche Pan Velvet, shaped
lap seam on Bodice, finished Lace Jabot, four-piece Skirt has lap seams back and front; Crcv,
Black, Fawn, Brown 27/G
An f h o n u
Horderns’
1 fill
. ■
ISO
22/6
10/6
14 (
16/9
203
C4O
m
12/6
2520
12/6
10/6
Well Tailored
Skirfs
It
faithfully
presents
all that
is new
in the
World of
Dress.
Five Charming Designs at
Anthony Horderns’.
mk
r
2554
63A
218!
59/6
2021
75/.
67/6
2579
57/6
No
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
1 Neatly Designed Skirt, in Black and Navy fine Coating Serge, with broad lapped
stitched seams at sides, trimmed Black Silk Buttons, Empire waist.. 22/6
33. — Useful Costume Skirt, in Brown or Grey Tweed, four-piece, high waistcd, with
ion' down, centre front and back, shaped at foot, finished bone buttons 10/6
ri i e Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, Of fine All Wool Coating Serge, Navy or
ack, Coat lined Silkette, shaped scams at back, Black Satin collar, and tailor buttons, four-
Piece Skirt, lapped seams back and front, special value 37/g;
Cheviot Serge Skirt, steel Grey, All Wool, well cut and finished, Self
loids, trimmed Grey Silk buttons and braid loops, Empire waist 14/6
30. —Nicely Cut Skirt, in Black or Navy fine Coating Serge, with shaped lap seams at.
OOQ „ k ’ finished Pear l buttons, slightly gathered into strap at back 16/0
-—Well-out Four-piece Skirt, with shaped stitched folds, back and front, finished)
aiiK buttons, Empire waist, in Navy or Black Cheviot Serge 14/6
G4O. Neatly Cut Skirt, in Brown Heather Mixture Tweed, shaped lap seams at front,.
with new gathered waist effect 16/6
2520. — -Smart All Wool Cheviot Serge Skirt, three-piece, scalloped at sides,
Empire waist, Navy and Black _ 16/6
a n,f?'~7 l ? eather Mixture Tweed Skirt, well cut and finished," with double'lap seams back
ill O, •’ , trimmed bone buttons, Empire waist, in Light and Dark Green shades only. . 12/6
All Skirts stocked 37in. to 44in. lengths, 22in. to 28in. waists. Out sizes, 2/6 extra.
No. 22021. Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Ail Wool Grey Cheviot Serge, effectively .trimmed
with ©lack Satin and Dome Buttons and lap seams, high-waisted Skirt 75/-
No. 21813. An Effective Coat and Skirt, in All Wool Hopsac, the Basque Coat finished
■at waist with folded Satin and smart ends at back, the Collar and Cuffs are of the new Broclic
Pan Wfffvet, high-waisted Skirt finished with shaped lap seams; in Navy, Black, Tan and
'Fawn 59 / 6
No. 2234. Suede Face Cloth Coat and Skirt, in new Russian style, fastened to the
throat and finished necklet of Black Foxaline Fur, lap seams and self Buttons lined fancy Silk
Polonaise, ifour-pieee Skirt, with shaped lap seams and Self Buttons ; in Mole, Navy and Light
Brown , 67/ G
No. 2554, An Attractive Walking Costume, in Granite Tweed Mixture, Collar, Cuffs,
Buttons and Strap at back are in Black Velvet, Uevers and Belt of Self, lined Broche Polonaise,
the very smart Skirt has shaped lap seams, finished Velvet Buttons and Buttonholes; in Grey,
Green or Fawn 63/-
No. 2579. — ‘Smart Walking Coat and Skirt Costume, in striped Heather Mixture
Tweed. Collar;is of Cloth and Buttonholes piped with same in shades to tone, Straps and Buttons
of Self, lined Silk Polonaise, high-waisted Skirt has shaped lap seams, finished piped Buttonholes
and Self Buttons; in Brown, Fawn and Grey 57/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporirsim,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ĝfg
22 CaJjher >
ƒ
g
fd
Two Popular Models .
There are two popular Winchester .22 Caliber
Repeating Rifles, either one of which gives
first class satisfaction for target shooting or hunting
small game. They are the Model 1903 .22 Automatic
and the Model 1906. The first, as its name implies, is
reloaded by recoil. After its 10-shot magazine is filled
and the rifle once loaded, the only effort required to
shoot it is to aim and pull the trigger. On account of the
ease and novelty of its operation, there is no end of fun
shooting this rifle. It’s the peer of all .225. The Model 1906
is a handsome, well-made, fine-shooting, smooth-working gun.
It is a handy little piece which has no equal in gun value. It
has a 20-inch, round barrel, fitted with sporting front and ad-
justable rear sights. It shoots .22 Short, .22 Long and .22
Long Rifle Cartridges, which permits the use of light ammu-
nition for target work and heavier cartridges for game shoot-
ing. These rifles are Take-Downs, and come apart easily
l and quickly and can be packed in a small compass.
1 WINCHESTER CARTRIDGES. Whichever one of these
I rifles you select, use Winchester make of cartridges in it.
They develop the possibilities of Winchester and other
makes of rifles and revolvers to the fullest degree. Get
the kind with the big W on the box.
Winchester Rides and Cartridges are Sold Everywhere *
fh
yyL
w*
ĥffdĥhfh
f
fain# to the Bible,
>e $69 years old.
(erefore had most
ities for observati<
letnuselah
an<
forming of accurate opinions.
He lived long before the
achinery, but had he been borj
usand years later, say in the
(thing is more certain than that
judgment would have confirmed
opinion generally held by our
k posted observers of the present'
\ which is almost unanimously
the effect that . ,
U!
a/
the
/est
an
rain prills
he best Practical
\h
\McCormi
invariably
we
1 e suits}
5V
Send for free particulaj
f 1 To
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
I < OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
~ BrU. Syd. Melb. Adlde Perth. A
ETHUSELAHS-
Bopiniqw
B.S.A.
cheapest in the end.
It is not only the initial outlay that counts
when buying a bicycle, it is what will it
cost to keep in proper going order during
the years you will want to use it.
If you buy a cheap “pattern” bicycle you will probably
prove to your sorrow that it will have cost you twi.e
the amount of a machine built of Genuine B.S.A.
Fittings. Don't run any risk, have a B.S.A. Bicycle
built of Genuine B.S A. Fittings—it is cheapest in the
end.
REMEMBER—ALL B.S.A. PARTS
PERFECTLY INTERCHANGEABLE.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS. MELBOURNE.
LOOE FOE
THIS MAKE
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
B.S.A*
B.S.A.
SPARE
PASTS
OBTAINABLE
EVEBY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
BSA
Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears. Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN (Q. SONS LTP.,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane,
the Wonderful Vista Chromoscope
Posted.
ƒhddgh
s Beautiful Colored Views Photographed from
Nature, life-like in form aud color/. Better
»than any you have ever seen before- Just
like viewing the actual scene, light aud
/ shade, perspective, solidity, animation aud, above
all. coloring/ A triumph of skill aud iugeuuity.
The complete Vista Chromoscope, with 12 beautiful
double pictures, 9/6, we pay carriage ; additional views 6/6 per
dozen* You should order at once, this advertisement may sot
appear The linloi Co.» >99 Elizabeth St, Mdh.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
df fhd
TRADE MARK SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18 / 6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth!
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
One of the best known and most highly
respected residents of Hunter’s Hill,
Sidney, N.S.W., writes of his
complete recovery which
can be easily verified.
Mr. MICHAEL O’DONNELL is one of the oldest identities
of this charming Sydney suburb where he has taken an active
interest in its social and commercial advancement. He writes of
the wonders of Clements Tonic, 25/8/13. Hundreds of Hunter’s
Hill residents know how ill Mr. O’Donnell has been, and how
great a reason he has to be thankful for having had this medicine
recommended to him. «>* Read his remarkable letter.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Years ago I became completely debilitated, and for six months I was
unable to follow my occupation. My nerves were in such a state that sleep
was almost impossible. My appetite had left me, I lost weight rapidly,
getting as low as 10 stone. I WAS JUST ABOUT AS BAD BODILY
AND MENTALLY AS IT WAS POSSIBLE TO BE.
“ I had medical advice, but derived no benefit from the medicine
prescribed, and began to lose hope of ever being my old self again.
“ Hearing of the wonders of Clements Tonic in similar cases, I
purchased some, and after taking it for a time I began to notice a beneficial
result. My appetite improved, and the nerves, becoming soothed, allowed
me to have my natural sleep. I BEGAN TO LOOK SO WELL
THAT PEOPLE SEEING ME ASKED WHAT MEDICINE I
WAS TAKING. I kept on with the Tonic till I fully recovered, and
lam now in the best of health, weighing !2st. 41b. I HAVE CLEM-
ENTS TONIC TO THANK FOR MY CURE. I have great
faith in it.
“ Living in Hunter’s Hill all my life, and being well known, this
statement can be vouched for, as nearly everyone knew how bad in health
I was. You may use this as you think fit.'*
(SIGNED) GjfcOtiaJC
This letter goes to prove the wonderful strength-giving value
of this splend d medicine, Clements Tonic, which is undoubt-
edly the herald of health, and relieves Lassitude, Sick
Headache, Loss of Vitality, Loss of Apoetite, Poor Blood, Lew
Spirits, and Melancholia quickly. All homes should keep it.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
•ana for It. —— It lonisthona anf iwattans llfo.


DON’T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND'S
MACASSAR
OIL
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour for Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
fh
i Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days’ Frc*
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Functure-Keslsting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears
iB.S.A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook's
[Saddles, etc.
1 latest
MODELS
o £3mlo to o CO
.Tyres anti accessories at half usual pricet.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, fot
rree Art Catalogue and Special
Offer on sample machine.
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE i
Dept. A 282
COMPANY,
LIVERPOOL.
AGENT for
VAL. D. COLE,
LARGE STOCKS ON
MEAD
Book Arcade,
HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL MODELS
THE Australian Magazine—THE TONIS
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6<l.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
W 3
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
( Copying book. You simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of your havin'*
taken a copy ; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
8 ln /’ or 4 9° size Bb y 6, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price 5/-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped, addressed envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd„ LEICESTER, ENCLAND
EIEY
CARTRIDGES
are the most reliable
in the world and the
best value.
‘ELEY SMOKELESS’
A Cerise Cartridge, loaded with
Eley (42 gr.) Smokeless Powder and
1J oz. of shot.
ELEY UNIVERSAL’
A Light Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 Drs. T.S.
Black Powder and
1J oz. of shot.
Si
m
92
m
m
H
M
m
m
ELEY
Cartridges
contain the
standard
loads of powder
and shot as
marked on boxes.
Shooters should
beware of all cartridges
the loads of which are
not specified on boxes.
Sold by all Gunmahers and Dealers:
Full particulars of Eley Cartridges from
A. ADAMS
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W
WHOLESALE ONLY
ELEY BROS. LTD., LONDON
Best Stories written by Australian
»r V liters appear in Tiie Lone Hand,
aiagazine. Price, Gd. monthly.
Bonn mg ton’s
Jubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT OSL LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief in case of Soro or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antisepticin their action,
these Jubes are entirely free front all poisonous or other harmful substances.
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
179 HA lIRTS STREET - - SYDNEY
m
'Kv
%
<*?
£S
s?
DRUNKENNESS Cured
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN SPECIFIC has no
odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person of either sex. It totally eradicates
all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases
are cured in a few days with this treatment.... Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and
full particulars. THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2011, 94 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MR. G. VECSEY.
Do You Want to
be Rid of Your
VARICOSE VEINS?
THIS APPEAL is made direct to you because from our experience we know
that thousands of people have suffered the tortures of the damned from
varicose veins and ulcers, because they did not know there was a painless
cure for this disastrous complaint. Did you know that there really is a
cure ?
Owing to the failure of ordinary methods to overcome this trouble, the
layman has come to believe that no cure exists for the trouble —a belief
that was founded on fact about four years ago, when
S6e Vecsey Home Treatment
first made its appearance. The change was marvellous. Men and women
came by thousands, and of the hundreds who have had treatment each year,
NINETY-EIGHT PER CENT, are to-day heralding their marvellous cures
broadcast. Very few, even of the exceptionally bad cases, are incurable, and if we undertake your
case we will not fail to effect the desired results. Guarantee given in every case accepted. This
method is a home treatment, easy and simple to adopt, and gives entire satisfaction without laying-
up or detention from business. It is painless and harmless, and cures the worst cases by a few
weeks’ application. No man or woman suffering from this complaint should neglect this splendid
opportunity to be rid of this dangerous and painful trouble for all time. If you would like to feel
your legs well, strong and supple again, send for full details of this wonderful treatment.
WE WIEE SEND YOU SCORES OF EETTERS EIKE THIS:
Macltay, Queensland.
Dear Sirs. —I shall never regret the day I decided to follow your advice,
as I don't believe I shall be troubled again with varicose veins. Your splendid
treatment restored my legs to their normal state, and they are free from pains,
aches or blemishes, and it is all due to your wonderful treatment. Thanking
you for your kind and business-like methods while treating me.—l remain,
„ yours truly, WIEEIAM S. EORD.
Free BooK. Diagnosis Free. Advice Free.
Send a 2d. stamp to pay part postage, and full particulars—with our free, illustrated book —will be
sent you by return post. This method offers you an opportunity that nothing else under the sun
can give you. Get rid of your varicose veins. Send for Book and Diagnosis Chart to-day. No
matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. (1829)
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM, 3103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE—
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
§p*B
p NTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
* —'have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you arc using cans
ior packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies ljin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon a-nd over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, JJ.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
Kills!
fhd
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire ner\’ous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “ The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR CSb CO.,
Dept. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
that Will hold a rupture under all
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children,
.DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collirts-st., Melbourne, Vic.
Kriischen
7 Salts >
I Mow sojd by Chemists throughout the Commonwealth. I
Wholesale Importers:
I H. &W. GREAR, 237, Jlarencj Street, SYDNEY. I
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Heroic Chant, wherein is an Explana-
tion of the Mind of Certain Persons
in Belfast and Sydney.
Let us consider the present state of Ulster,
Let us observe the ancient land of Cuthullin.
Lo, the Protestant Bhoys have said it,
Edward Carson hath declared it,
The London Times hath mentioned it,
The fool person thinketh in his own hat that
it is true —•
Ulster has a gun sharpened
And an axe made ready for -war!
Sing ye of the Boyne Water,
And rejoice ye in the tumultuous fake of
Fat;
For the hour cometh like a cabbage in the
darkness,
And the Walls of Derry shall be wet with
the blood of many bottles!
Why maketh Ulster so great an uproar,
And wherefore doth Antrim vaunt herself?
Lo, Antrim hateth that she should own her-
self,
And Belfast will shoot herself rather than
that she should have her own will;
Yea, the County Down will insist on doing
anything she darned well pleaseth in
order to prevent herself from doing any-
thing that darned well pleaseth her.
And the King’s armies shall be shot in the
name of the King,
And the King shall be told all that he must
do because his power is supreme;
For Ulster is somewhat loyal to the core
and in rebellion against all things save
her own rebellion.
Behold, this is nonsense!
Yea, it is the talk of idiots.
And of the fool person whose brain is as the
forward end of a superannuated goat!
Sing ye of the Boyne Water
And rejoice in the tumultuous fake of Fat;
For the voice of his shouting is Edward
Carson,
And the gun of his destruction is a bluff of
many words.
Let us consider the State of New South
Wales,
Let us observe the young land mortgaged to
Cohen.
Lo, the glory of Sydney is great.
She hath many houses built around much
water,
The owners of her bricks are mighty,
And they love Australia even as the Devil
loveth a Wowser tabernacle.
Yea, they extol New South Wales (’which
is Sydney),
And they contemn Australia (which is New
South Wales and some more States) ;
They battle greatly against the Common-
wealth (which is themselves) ;
And they war mightily for New South
Wales (which is also themselves) ;
Wherefore, behold, they are for themselves
and against themselves,
And in enmity and friendship they regard
themselves with scorn and pride.
Behold, this is nonsense!
Yea, it is the talk of an idiot
And of the fool person whose brain is as
the fatted part of corned mutton!
Sing ye of the Boyne Water,
Also of the water which is not at Canberra,
And rejoice ye in the subtlety of the fake
of Fat!
Lo, Fat is loyal and loveth the Crown,
But his greater desire is for many half-
crowns !
He would sell Ulster for a price
And consider a cash offer for New South
Wales.
Ireland maketh him sick,
And Australia maketh him angry;
For Ireland will not be sold,
And Australia is too large for any to buy.
Which is the direct, simple and incontro-
vertible explanation of the attitude of
the Tory person both in Belfast and
Sydney.
God Save the King (somewhat) !
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.
The Power of Prayer.
Prayers were recently offered for rain. —Daily press.
The young and simple prayer
Of Mary Jane,
Was that it might keep fair
And free from rain ;
Her sweet petition rose
’GaiLst storm and dew,
Because her pretty clo’es
And hat were new.
John Hoe, beside his corn,
Observed the sky.
The sun in torrid scorn
Winked its large eye;
Straightway he caught his moke
And rode away
To catch a parson bloke
And make him pray.
Prayer seemed the only thing
To bring the rain,
To make the young grass spring
And swell the grain ;
Prayer seemed the surest way
Of keeping dry,
When pleasant Saturday
And Tom were nigh.
The parson man prayed well
The farmers knew,
But not a wet drop fell—
The skies were blue.
And so the fact was plain,
Whoe’er may doubt,
The prayer of Mary Jane
Knocked the Church out!
y.s.w.
MARY NcC.


aron
A Cigarette for those gentlemen who appreciate
the luxuries of life.
The mild flavor and fragrant aroma of SARONY
never vary —therefore SARONY Cigarettes
always satisfy.
Turkish or Virginian. All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY & CO.,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W.
& '?*
M
■dnlmji
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s, per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Od. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manages.
IE
LISTER BRUSTON
Automatic
Elecftric
Lighting'
Plant.
Starts Itself.
Stops Itself.
Simpler and
Cheaper than
any other
type of
lliuminant.
AGENTS:
N.S.W. —W. C. Watson & Co. Ltd., 279 Clarence St., Sydney; VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders St., Mel-
bourne ; QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe Carson Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane; S. AUS.—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
fhdfdh
YOU CAN GROW A MOUSTACHE
No matter how often you have failed or how many preparations you
have tried. IP YOU USE CAPIULARINE you can develop a
smart, full, flowing: moustache that will imurove your appearance
wonderfully. CAPIULARINE is not a quack remedy, but a reli-
able preparation which has been 30 years on the market. It is safe,
sure, reliable —does not injure the skin —cannot be detected in use.
Prove it for yourself.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY 10/G, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
vs:
HOISTEN
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
%
Kt
if
111*
§ iv
in
The
“Raglan.”
Ladies’
‘’Raglan.”
The
“Derby.
Macintoshes.
We are now showing a magnificent range
of new season’s waterproofs for Meii
and Women.
Every coat is perfectly tailored in out
own workrooms from materials that are
noted for style and wear.
MEN’S.
WOMEN’S.
LE Range: Blue, Brown
and Green, single tex-
ture, rubber-proofed ma-
terials • 25/-
LG: Plain Olive and Fawn 35 /-
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON MACINTOSHES.
Our New, Illustrated List is now ready. pi„ ns .„ „„,„i . ~ . , . ,
Post Free on request. ' asL 80,1,1 for a copy; !t 18 sure to interest you.
Austrllia n b°v SheS Q "° tCd Quarantced Absolutely Waterproof, and are manufactured in
dfh
RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street* Sydney.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane .
SHI-N OLEUM
PLEASES EVERYONE. mi
Easy to Use-Quick to Shine—and very eco~
nomical—SHl-NOLEUM never fails to please*
AS A POLISH FOR LINOLEUMS and
FURNITURE it has no equal—if you havfe
not tried it yet ORDER A TfN from your
Storekeeper TO-DAY— you will be delighted
——— ——— --with it. —: —— =~
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.-They are not offered
for your benefit.
§^\AX)ovUl7l
dfh
fh
fdhdfh
The Chinese use this Symbol
to express Completeness
The perfect balance—the uhbfokeh circle—these denote unity... .The symbol stands
for something that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
And this applies to the Machines we stocfc Look at this Marine Engine !
■ ' '
iifeS
"cr .
~\
'V.
s\
a
JJ
Port View.
It is a “SCRIPPS” Model “M.
“The Niagara Rapids Model.”
Two Cylinders. 12 H.P. Bore, 4Jin. Stroke, sin. Normal Speeds, 600-800 R.P.M.
A SCRIPPS Motor took Captain Larsen safely through the Niagara Rapids.
A SCRIPPS Motor carried Captain Day and 3 men in a 33-footer from Detroit, U.S.A.,
to St. Petersburg, Russia—a distance of 6008 miles, AND
A SCRIPPS Motor will take you down the Harbor on Sunday and bring you back at
the proper time without any monkey-business.
So, what’s wrong with dropping in and having a look at this proposition?
We stock these Engines, and can deliver same complete with Outfit “C,” which
consists of:—
Motor with timer, coil, spark plugs, water pump, air compressor, lubricator,
float feed carburetter, primary and secondary wires, reverse gear mounted on
extension base, ball thrust, coupling, 10 feet steel shafting, bronze outboard
bearing, bronze inside stuffing box, solid two-blade bronze propeller, muffler,
tools, oil cans, and book of instructions.
Also fitted with Bosch high-tension Magneto.
CARRIED IN STOCK BY—
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australia,
Full Stock of all Classes of Engineers' Machine Tools
51-53 Druitt Street
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Piegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35. Ko. 1782.
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1914.
L’kicb Bd.
BRITISH POLITICS IN BRIEF.
The British Empire covers about 11,500,000 square miles of the earth’s surface. The British Islands represent 121,391 square miles of that area, which
isn’t much. Out of the 121,391 square miles of the British Islands the spot which appears in white is the one which is making all the trouble by its opposition
to Irish Home Rule. In the north-west end of the white spot can be seen the walls of ’Derry, with the Rev. George Walker holding forth on the battlements
over 300 years ago. At the other end Carson’s loyal-rebel army is visible as it marches to-day, if it does march, which is doubtful.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 3389.
City 3390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(Iu Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. - 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
liie Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cliques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Hellers.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, Tim Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable. acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. lo distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and Wiiite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
arilstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
U.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., lj)t Hastings Street,
Vancouver. 8.C.; Jcpson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City Neu-s Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
20th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Ilandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Ivong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — IK. G. P. Perera, 10 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (icholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and lligby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
I//0 per doz. nett.
This Bulletin metal advertising plates, size
x 11/in., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Hostage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, Iooz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., lit. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
lo 10oz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
ffiie'Vßizlleix/Ti.
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1914.
THE WAGE QUESTION, AND ABOUT
100 SIDE ISSUES.
THE outstanding feature of industrial life
in Australia to-day is the strike or the arbi-
tration —too often it is the strike —for better
wages and better conditions and shorter
hours. The next most prominent feature is
the clamor about high prices and high rents,
about the increased cost of living and the
increased cost of dying, and the prohibitive
price of burial. The unrest is especially
marked in New South Wales, because that
State* has been indulging in a loan boom of
heroic dimensions, and, for some reason that
is not easy to define, it is in the sere and
yellow tail-end of a boom that industrial
troubles are most numerous. In Sydney,
which l -is the- centre of the excitement, the
cost af the place- which we occupy when
above ground has been increased because
there has been a great upwardness in the
wages of the carpenter, mason, bricklayer,
brickmaker, paperhanger, quarryman, etc.
Also, the cost of shifting materials is far
greater than it used to be, and land to build
upon has been run up to an insane figure by
the congestion policy which tries to crowd
all the trade and finance and most of the
new population of the State into one bottle-
necked city. Then the loan boom has
created a feverish condition, and the landlord
has been hustling for all he could get, and
repairs cost more than they did, and rates
have gone up, and the price of garbage-
removal is greater, because the community
is becoming more civilised, and is taking more
trouble—which means expense—about sani-
tation, and is more desirous that its tene-
ments should be habitable. As for the
place which we occupy below ground, the
miserably ill-paid mute had to get a trifle,
and the tombstone-maker required a little
extra per week to counterbalance the in-
creased price of existence, and it is even
alleged that the old black horse which drags
the late lamented to his home of clods has
received an additional feed, but this is un-
certain.
* * * *
As a general rule, a country of high wages
and high cost of living is a good one to
inhabit, and a low-wage and cheap-living
country isn’t. There are exceptions, of
course, for a high wage may be the temporary
result of an influx of foreign loans, or of
mad speculation in wild cats, or may be
partly brought about by selling the public
estate to all and sundry, and treating the
proceeds as revenue. But on the whole the
rule is sound. In the country where wages
and prices are lofty there is the largest
margin between earnings and expenditure;
the standard of living is best, and the savings
are greatest. If the community—assuming
it is a well-governed and well-ordered com-
munity—isn’t satisfied with the savings and
the standard of living, then the only thing
that remains is to do more work, or to invent
better machinery, so that it may be possible
to produce better results with the same
amount of work. This is an obvious proposi-
tion, based on the fact that no more can
come out of a pot than has been put in it.
Unfortunately the. Political Drunk is always
with us. There is the one who thinks that
the way to be a high-wage man in a cheap-
living community is to import low-priced
colored labor—slave or otherwise. He is a
Fat person and wholly ignorant and objec-
tionable, and his belltopper is a horror. Then
there is the Freetrade person, sometimes Fat
and sometimes Lean, who hopes to achieve
the same millennium by importing, not the
cheap, enslaved worker, but the cheap slave
goods of his manufacture. There are other
devices for living in cheap houses put up by
expensive labor, and for having cheap food
grown by highly-remunerated growers; and
for travelling at low rates on railways built
and worked by costly people, and for doing
less toil and getting more for it. But they
all come, up against the ultimate fact that
the pot, in the long run, can’t supply more
than its contents.
* * * *
Taking New South Wales as a case in
point, that State produced, in 1912—later
figures are not yet available—wealth to the
estimated value of £74,100,000. That in-
cluded the cow and the wheat, the coal that
was dug up and the tree that was cut down,
the gold, silver and lead, the factory pro-
ducts —even the output of the hen and the
bee and the. rabbit. The total represented
something like £4l per inhabitant, and as
the wages paid must have some dim rela-
tion to the value of the goods produced, it
is plain that wages have their limitations.
A coin may do marvels in the way of paying
many men’s, wages in a year, but the limita-
tions remain. The farmer gets one crop
of wheat per annum, and it is eaten
once, and then it is gone, and his possible
wage fund for the year is the value of his
output no more and no less. Certainly last
year New South Wales borrowed something
abroad about £4 10s. per inhabitant to be
accurate, which represented some £22 10s.
for an average family of five, a figure which
works out. at nearly 9s. per week. There-
fore foreign borrowing represented the
State’s fifth biggest industry. It brought
in more than fisheries, or forests, or dairy-
ing, or the group of minor jobs which
are lumped together as “Poultry, bees, rab-
bits, etc.” It was only beaten by the pas-
toral business, by agriculture, by mining and
by manufactures, and borrowing ran both
agriculture and mining very close indeed.
But this is only a temporary relief, and as>
a set-off the export of interest is eating a
dreadful hole in the State’s production. In
the long run, the wage possibilities of a
country can be guessed at by the value of
what it produces, less the net amount it has
to pay to the foreign creditor from whom it
.got the loan of the dead horse in the days
when it took no thought for the morrow.
A community that is loaded with foreign
debt has its special limitations. It has to
sell a large proportion of its produce abroad
to meet the interest bill. It has to sell
whether it can spare the goods or not, and
whether .prices are good or bad. In fact,
it has to sell at the foreign buyer’s market
figure and be glad to get it. This foreign
price, to some extent, fixes local prices in
the industries affected; and all the kick in
the world hasn’t yet succeeded in raising
wages beyond the limit that these prices will
stand. The worst-paid industries are those
in which men grow the goods that are mainly
sold to Bull at the other end of the world
—sold at Bull’s valuation to cover the in-
terest on the debts which Bull lent us at
his own valuation, and which he renews at
his own valuation when the account falls
due. There really seems to be altogether
too much of Bull’s valuation and Bull’s
option in this borrowing business.
It might possibly be well if trades union-
ism devoted itself a little less to the frontal
attack and a little more to a subtle cir-
cumventing of the enemy. It is good to push
up wages, but wages won’t go up beyond a
certain point, no matter how much they are
pushed, unless conditions are altered. There
are schemes for forcibly shoving down rents
by putting a dead weight on top of them.
And there was recently a scheme for shoving
down the price of local meat by stopping the
export of meat to foreign parts. If the
proposition had succeeded it would probably
have spoiled the next foreign loan, for the
exported meat helps to pay the interest;
and when the loan failed the partially built
railways would have stopped, and thousands
of unemployed navvies would have swarmed
to Sydney and started wharf-lumping for a
living. And their competition would have
reduced the wages of the men who refused
to load the meat for export, and they would
be forced to do with less meat, and there
would have been astonishment all round.
Three propositions might be worth consider-
ing. One is that trades-unionism should
devote itself more to digging up improved
methods of production so that the output of
the country may be a great deal more than
£4l per head, and there may be a bigger
possible wage fund to divide. Another is
that it should toil a great deal harder at
eliminating the middleman —especially the
foreign one, who is a great deal worse than
the local article inasmuch as he doesn’t
spend his profits in the country. The
foreign importer, who is persistently cock-
ered up by the Labor policy of “sinking the
fiscal issue” is a very expensive burden. And
among needless local burdens is the one
absurdly big city and the needless distances
that goods have to travel to reach that city.
And by way of a third proposition, trades-
unionism, and the Labor Party of which
it is the foundation, might think a great
deal harder about leaving off the debt habit
and eliminating the foreign money-lender.
For he lends us money at his own figure,
and when the loan falls due he renews it at
his own figure, and the country has to sell
him wheat and frozen beef and sundries in
his own market at his own figure in order
to find the wherewithal to meet the liability.
AH these things complicate the wage pro-
blem exceedingly.
* * * *
At the basis of the whole trouble lies the
fact that the outout of all New South Wales
industries only represents £4l per inhabi-
tant, and there are a multitude of absurd
importers, frauds, loafers, sharks, middlemen,
speculators, loan-mongers and the like gnaw-
ing at that amount—there may be
even too many trades union secre-
taries and a superfluity of arch-
bishops. And it isn’t such a very large
amount of production per head whatever
way you look at it. The wage question, at
the last resort, comes up against the fact
that all that can possibly come out of a pot
is the quantity that is in it.
THE RELATION OF THE LIBERAL
PARTY TO LOCAL DEFENCE.
Dear Bulletin,— The Federal Government
was accused the other day of a design to
hand over the battleship Australia to the
British Government, in order that it might
be used to strengthen the North Sea Fleet. In
other words, Joe Cook and his colleagues
were charged with the ambition to carry out
the one naval policy which —unless their
views have changed vastly in the last few
years—they really believe in. Both Cook and
Defence Minister Millen denied the accu-
sation with an appearance of frantic heat.
Cook said it was “a slander” ; Millen called
it “this entirely unfounded and foolish
canard’’; and they were agreed that “such a
suggestion would never be considered by
any Liberal Administration.” It is quite
possible that Liberal Administrations may
disregard the scheme, since, under the Party
Government system, votes are the things
which every Administration most desires,
and there is obviously no electoral support to
be gained by adopting the absurd old Dread-
nought policy at this time of day. But
as to the real sentiments of Liberalism in
the matter, there can be no question.
Liberalism was opposed to local defence be-
fore the Australian navy came into being,
and in its heart it is opposed to defence
still. Sydney Evening News expressed
neatly the views of the average non-Minis-
terial Liberal when it said (30/3/T4), in
reference to the above proposal or rumor, or
whatever it was :
Somebody appears to have been crediting the
Government with more sense than they possess. We,
however, freely acquit Senator Millen and his col-
leagues of the imputation concerning the Australia,
for we do not think that they can free themselves
from the absurd “navy of our own” fetich. The
wise course would be to give the Admiralty a«
absolutely free hand; it would be even wiser to make
the Imperial Government an out-and-out present of
the battle-cruiser, for in that case the tremendous
cost of upkeep would be saved. Australia would
lose its iron toy, of course, but the British Navy
would gain a fighting ship, and could put it where
it would do most good.
There wrote a Liberal who, however unpatri-
otic, however lacking in foresight and imag-
ination, was withal honest.
It is a deplorable fact that the whole
tendency of Liberalism, both in and out of
Parliament, is to go as slow as possible in
the matter of defence. Senator Millen an-
nounced his intention, recently, to save
£500,000 sterling in this direction; and one
of his methods of doing so was to turn
down the recommendations of his aviation
experts in regard to the purchase of new
machines, and allow the lives of Australia’s
military fliers to go on being en-
dangered in an aeroplane which has
been condemned utterly by those com-
petent to express an opinion as to
its merits. Just as the present Govern-
ment is coldly indifferent on the question
of teaching the budding Australian officer
to fly, so it is stone-cold as regards teaching
the embryo warrior to ride. The art of rid-
ing is a very essential part of the average
soldier’s equipment. The city-bred Austra-
lian—and the vast majority of our trainees
are city-bred—has no idea of horsemanship.
And what with the rise of the motor-car,
and the prevalence of wire fences, and the
shifting back of the cattle-stations and other
things, the back-blocks Australian is far
from being the equestrian that he was in the
days of the horse-poets. In Britain, France,
Germany, Russia—wherever, in short, De-
fence is taken seriously by the National Gov-
ernment —riding-schools are amongst the
most prominent features of the landscape.
The Commonwealth makes no effort to teach
its defenders to ride. It appears to be
under the delusion that Nature attends to
matters of that sort. . As Nature, in point
of fact, doesn’t, a few patriotic officers have
had to take on the job themselves. They
round up as many of the trainees as they
can persuade to undergo riding instruction,
and put them through a sort of equestrian
drill as often as possible. They get no valu-
able consideration for their labors, beyond
the reflection that they are doing their coun-
try a good turn. And so far as the
present Australian Government is concerned
they don’t even get encouragement. In
Sydney, for example, the riding lessons are
given at the Show Ground. This renders it
necessary for the trainees to carry their
heavy military saddles, on each instruction
day, from the Victoria Barracks to the
place of trial. The officers agitate tire-
lessly for a riding school in the barracks —
an innovation which would be handier for
them (the officers), and so much more con-
venient in other respects that it would be
bound to attract a fresh band of recruits.
But the authorities do nothing. There are
no votes, worth mentioning, attached to such
reforms; and reforms which cost money and
don’t buy votes make no appeal to the
modern Minister.
A Sydney law-case which ended last week
demonstrated the length to which official
ineptitude and casualness can go in defence
matters. It concerned the handling of the
horses which the Administration of the day
—an Administration, by the way, in which
J. Cook was Defence Minister —hired for
what has been known since as the “Kit-
chener camp.” Many of the officers in
charge of these unhappy animals seem to
have known nothing whatever about horse-
mastership, and the Government of the day
was so completely indifferent on the ques-
tion that it didn’t trouble to find out before-
hand whether the men to whom it handed
over the beasts were experienced handlers of
horses or ignoramuses. Some weird facts
were brought out in evidence. No proper
halters were provided. Instead of halters,
most of the men had to use narrow neck
straps on their mounts. In addition, there
were no heel-ropes. The quietest of equine
ruins is liable to play up at feeding-time.
To try and feed horses in bulk, so to speak,
with neck-straps in place of halters, and no
heel-ropes, is something equivalent to an
attempt to lassoo man-eating tigers with
binder twine. At the Kitchener camp the
remounts got their necks cut with the straps:
walked over and under the breast-lines when
they had succeeded in bursting the said
straps; kicked each other freely; and in
general so played up that scores of them had
to be sent to the sick-lines for days and
weeks on end. In addition, the harness
that was used on the Field Artillery horses
was neither properly cared for, nor did it
fit. The effect of its untended condition
was to gall those animals on which it was
used; and the result of its being too small
was, in the majority of cases, even more
disastrous —as disastrous as it would be to
attempt to force an infantry man with a
No. 6 foot to march in a No. 4 boot. Sore
shoulders, sore withers, and various other
equine troubles ensued. Some of the ani-
mals concerned were in the sick-lines for as
long as 20 days. There was a mild form
of chaos. Kitchener was scandalised.
The only party to the business that seemed
satisfied was the Government, which was
primarily responsible, and in which, as afore-
said. the present Prime Minister held the
portfolio of Defence.
There are some things that it is useless to
expect from any Liberal Administration.
One of them is a sympathetic handling of
the Northern Territory problem—since your
true Liberal is essentially, in the depths or
recesses of his heart, a Black Australian.
And another thing that no Liberal Govern-
ment appears likely to provide is an enthusi-
astically administered policy of Defence. In
the short time that he has held his billet
Joseph Cook has cut down the Defence ex-
penditure with an absolutely reckless hand;
and he has laid his Administration open to
the charge of intending to substitute Dread-
nausea for the local navy scheme.
Such happenings provoke a feeling of
instability in the services which is
fatal to keenness and highly detrimental to
discipline. Already a number of Australian
youngsters are being sent yearly to England
to join the British navy, not altogether be-
cause their parents have a snobbish idea of
the superior social standing of the R.N.
officer, but because there is a vague suspicion
as to the impermanency of the local fleet. The
same apnlies, more or less, to the land arm
of the Defence force. Local Defence has
alwa vs been anathema to Liberalism. Going
on all the available form, it is still anathema.
And local Defence is getting very, very sick
of the situation. —Yours, etc., Miles.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Letter About Defence.
Dear Bulletin, — In a recent issue you made
certain very definite statements, with the
object of showing that on the score of
economy I was leaving undone certain things
that ought to be done, while on the other hand
guilty of gross extravagance in other direc-
tions. Your definite statements were: —
(1) That the Department’s Aviation Experts, who,
as you allege, should know, recommended that more
aeroplanes and some hydroplanes should be acquired,
(2) That the only biplane available for instruc-
tional purposes was unsafe.
(3) That the instructors had asked for another
machine and their request had been refused.
Replying to these, let me state there is no
vestige of fact in any of these statements
no such recommendations or representations
having been made. Having by these state-
ments sought to castigate me for false econ-
omy, you then turn round and proceed with
equal vigor to found a charge of extrava-
gance, by instancing some work carried on
at the Parade Ground, Victoria Barracks,
and by an expenditure of “£29,000 in South
Australia on barracks which will not be used
for years to come.” Of both these evidences
of extravagance, I am entirely innocent, they
having occurred under the regime, and by .the
authority of, my predecessor. —Yours faith-
fully, E. D. Millen.
The Bulletin’s answer to which is:
(1) The fact that the acquisition of more aero-
planes and some hydroplanes had been recommended
to the Federal Government was reported in the Mel-
bourne and Sydney dailies last month, and never
contradicted. . ,
(2) At the particular time the article to which
Senator Miplen refers was written only or ’® ) 'P lane
was available for instructional purposes. That was
why General Gordon, when he wished for a fly, nan
to risk his life in it. And this was the way it


behaved on the occasion in question, according to a
Melbourne press representative: —•
“Lieutenant Harrison took Brigadier-General
Gordon as a passenger, but the low-power machine
was not equal to the task, and for about five miles
was only skimming the ground or diving towards it.
The spectators gasped at each sudden dip, till at last
Harrison brought the machine to earth, and General
Gordon alighted.”
This was presumably the machine of which Lieu-
tenant Conran, ' of the Royal Aviation Corps, said to
a Sydney Sun representative at Fremantle (W.A.),
“It is out of date and highly Men should
not be required to risk their lives in it.”
(3) The Bulletin did not say that the instruc-
tors had asked Senator Millen personally for more
reliable machines. As a matter of fact, it went
out of its way (12/3/’l4) to remark:—
“The luckless airmen whose duty it is to fly the
prehistoric craft which the Government has placed
at their disposal cannot make any protest. It is a
rule of the military game that they should acclaim
the aged death-traps as thoroughly safe and satis-
factory in every way.”
But it is well known that they have voiced their
sentiments in other than official quarters, and with
the utmost vigor.
As regards the Barracks’ expenditure in Sydney,
S. Aus. and W.A., The Bulletin did not say or
suggest that it was originated by the Cook Govern-
ment. What it took exception to was the fact that
prevision should have been made in the Defence
estimates for the continuance of this relatively un-
necessary work, while really urgent matters —the
purchase of up-to-date aeroplanes and hydroplanes,
the starting of a State etc. —have to be held
over owing to a lack of funds.
♦
Suggestions tor nn Improved Sydney
Suburban Railway Service, or for
an Improvement of what Passes as
a Service.
Dear Bulletin, —At a time when our New
South Wales railway service is threatened
with complete collapse it behoves every in-
telligent citizen to bestir himself and seri-
ously consider the situation. Wherefore,
sir, I am constrained to trespass on your
space. Abler pens than mine will no doubt
be forthcoming to suggest remedies for remov-
ing the engineering and traffic difficulties
which are at the base of all the congestion
and delays. The task I have set myself is
to suggest to the Commissioners that a few
conveniences and comforts could very cheaply
be added to the Sydney suburban trains
under the present condition of affairs in
order that passengers might put in the long,
weary hours that it takes to travel to and from
their avocations with better tempers, more
health, and, if I may say so, less blasphemy.
Take my own case, sir. I have made it my
practice throughout life to be in my office
at 9 o’clock sharp every morning. I am too
settled in my habits to disturb that rule.
Now, residing, as I do, fully four miles
westward from the Central railway station,
it is necessary for me to leave my home for
the office the night before the morning I am
du«. To do otherwise would be to risk
breaking a rule I have inexorably laid down
for myself and my employees. If there were
sleeping compartments attached to my train
the all-night journey would not be so trying,
but for a man past the prime of life the tast
of huddling on a narrow seat under a rug
in the company of snoring or . blaspheming
strangers, afraid to sleep for fear of pick-
pockets, is a severe and unnecessary one,.
Sleeping cars should be attached to all sub-
urban trains immediately. And what is to
prevent the Commissioners putting on dining
cars? I take it that food is necessary for
any man. And drink, too. Yet, of a night,
I have to go for hours without a drink after
my flask of whisky and water is empty.
But those reflections are, maybe, selfish. I
would put in a plea for the women and
children. Supposing, for the mere sake of
argument, my wife and daughters decided
that they would spend an afternoon at a
picture show. With a little enterprise on
the part of the Railway Commissioners they
(my family; not the Commissioners) might
leave Lewisham by rail in the morning, meet
a few friends on the train, have their gossip,
lunch, then a cinematograph entertainment
in the theatre car (I propose a theatre car
in my scheme), and afternoon tea on the re-
freshment car (either before or after reach-
ing Sydney). The party, of course, would
have to return by the same express, but the
journey would be pleasantly employed in
the drawing-room car with music, or in the
writing-room car attending to correspond-
ence, or in the library car with books,
papers and magazines. With ordinary luck
passengers for Lewisham would reach home
(unless they were on a through train) about
7 p.m., or just in good time to dime.
(If they Were on a through train they
would, of course, never arrive at all, for no
less than 15 through trains that have left
Sydney have been seen flying next week in a
dead condition past Macdonaldtown, and were
never again heard of.) Then for our youths
going home after work there might be pro-
vided gymnasiums, shooting galleries, a tech-
nical school, art school, Bible class and
what not. For the oldsters there would be
smoking rooms, where refreshments might
be obtained in comfortable surroundings, with
the extra advantage of the liquor being
guaranteed by the State. I could go on in-
definitely, sir, but I fear me it would be to
deaf ears, since the Labor party has power
of veto. It is a thousand pities that the
railways are not run by Private Enterprise.
The exceedingly great profits that would
accrue from the above scheme /would appeal
to Private Enterprise at once, but to the
Holman Government —never. I read the
other day where one of the Ministers stated
that it was absurd to make profits, even to
pay off debts. —Yours truly, Merchant.
The General Repair of Queensland.
Dear Bulletin, —One gets very tired of
this back patting of medical persons like
Taylor, M.L.C., of Queensland (B.
12/3/’l4), because they strive to bang on to
the utterly useless and antiquated C.D. Act,
in preference to helping to get modern and
effective legislation against venereal diseases.
The entire scope and range of the C.B. Act
was the Flossie, as known to the police,
who were constituted the sole judges as to
the lady’s qualifications for admission under
the Act. John Hop may be a good judge of
such matters, or he may not, but his-judicial
activities .were apt to be hampered by the
fact that if he swore that a given, woman
was a Flossie within the meaning of the
Act (which very wisely did not define the
term), she might bring evidence to show
that she was not, and afterwards blow a
gale of trouble for John in another court.
Also, if she had any old kind of husband to
produce, it was not feasible to label her as
a member of the most ancient profession. If
these difficulties, and the other incidental
ones attendant on the human weaknesses of
the flesh and the pocket to which even ser-
geants are liable, were successfully overcome,
the lady came up before a magistrate who
told her to go and get examined by a speci-
fied doctor. That individual duly examined
her thereafter, usually once a fortnight or
so. The amateur Flossie who is the princi-
pal means of spreading venereal diseases,
the male bludger who in nine cases out of
ten is infected and reinfects the unfortunate
who earns his beer money, the keeper of an
immoral house, the individual who wilfully
infects another person under the perverted
idea that his own disease will thereby be
cured, are not affected in any way by this
50-year-old Act. Also, if Flossie . de-
parted over the border of the very limited
area where the C.D. regulations were in
operation, she could go ahead without worry-
ing about her fortnightly medical visit. The
absolute uselessness of a simple medical ex-
amination as a means of detecting even
active venereal disease is a medical truism
in these days. Exhaustive and thorough
microscopic tests are needed to arrive at any
definite conclusion as to freedom from infec-
tion, but no provision was made for these
under the TAYLOR-beloved relic of 1867.
Microscopes were not thought of for such
purposes in those days, and really accurate
diagnosis has only been possible within the
last decade. Even this poor pretence of an
examination was not made oftener than once
a fortnight, and any Flossie in a fair way
of business would have chances of pass-
ing on the infection before she was due for
her next visit to the doctor. The C.D. Act
was thrown out in Brisbane and replaced by
modern legislation on the advice of the very
two men who were in a position to speak
with authority as to its efficiency, namely
the Commissioner of Public Health and the
Government Medical Officer. The Austra-
lasian Medical Congress drew up an outline
of the legislation which it considered was re-
quired to deal with the venereal disease curse,
and this was embodied in the Health Act. of
1911. Aged gentlemen of the Taylor period
nearly blew their venerable roofs off when
the sacred C.D. Act of their hot youth was
threatened, but Home Secretary Appel man-
aged to stiffen the backbone of the tremulous
Denham, and the new statute went through.
In place of the weary old fraud of former
days, there is now provided a free dispen-
sary for ''outpatient treatment of venereal
disease, free beds for in-patients, free issues
of salvarsan to all hospitals, power to ex-
amine and isolate any person of either sex
who is known or even suspected to be suffer-
ing from venereal disease in an infectious
stage, heavy penalties. against the wilful
transmission of these diseases, and power to
deal effectively with the bludger class. A
political promise has necessitated the con-
tinuance of Flossie examination in Bris-
bane, but this is now done by modern labora-
tory methods. If Flossie is diseased she
is sent into dock and filled up with salvarsan
to render her non-infections. The Health
Department has replaced John Hop in the
management of syphilis, and so far the
change seems to be for the better. —Yours
faithfully,
( Watt on “Reluctance.”
Premier Watt, who advocated Elective
Ministries in the wayback time, when he was
a private member of the Victorian Assembly,
now finds himself required to apologise for
his personal practice of Party Government.
More than that, he has to account for his
utter lack of intention to move in the matter
of the reform which he formerly advocated.
When questioned by a Melbourne pressman
W. Watt stated that administrative experi-
ence had not changed his view. He still
sighed for the Elective Ministry system. The
awful defects of Party Government contin-
ued to shock him. He had not ceased to
lament the scandalous old political methods
of misconducting the business of the country.
But to engraft the Elective Ministry system upon a
reluctant Parliament and community would mean
that it would never get a fair trial. Election of
Ministries involved a change of attitude on the part
of the community in respect to many problems of
government. That change would have to be gradual,
and the result of education.
So said Premier Watt. The dishonesty of
his excuse for neither taking action now,
nor proposing to take action hereafter, is an
appalling proof of what a few years of
•prosperous political Party life can bring a
Watt to. He professes to believe that the
reluctance of the men in Parliament, play-
ing the Party game to please themselves, is
shared by the community. And he utters
this false assumption notwithstanding the
fact that the only authorised representatives
of the community who have discussed the
Elective Ministry proposal in public . have
carried a resolution in favor of engrafting it
upon Parliament. Here is some sort of
indication that any candidate at next elec-
tion who pledged himself to the Elective
principle would stand an excellent chance of
being returned. If W. Watt stood for the
Elective principle he would certainly be
returned. The Parliament would be re-
turned on the non-reluctant ticket. The
community has already changed its attitude.
The “gradual education’.’ which Watt talks
about as something to be accomplished has
already come to pass. The people have
been taught by their experience to despise the
Party system. The voters for Labor, who
have never vet had one representative in a
Victorian Ministry, would surely welcome
the change that Watt advocated when he
was a broader Democrat than the Premier of
to-day. How is the “community” to become
better .educated in the need for reform, save
by becoming more and more disgusted with
the evils of Party Government? Watt dis-
misses the suggestion of an immediate change
with the allegation that nobody thus far is
fully educated— i.e., disgusted. That is what
his excuse boils down to. the community is
insufficiently sick of Party Government
and Want of Confidence motions, there-
fore he wili go on with the same
old sickening process. His billet under
existing conditions is to his . liking.
He expects to be reappointed to it laiter
in the year. So he pretends to believe; that
Victorians in general would be reluctant to
alter the conditions which he one time disap-
proved of, but which this time suit him so
nicely.
This cablegram appeared on Saturday:—
MODERN RECRUITING.
PRETTY GIRLS AS SERGEANTS.
London, Thursday.—A series of army recruiting
weeks is being organised in London. The prettiest
girls in the Camberwell locality have been chosen
as recruiting sergeants. Committees in other_ dis-
tricts are making equally active efforts to'induce
recruits to enrol.
There is something sorrowful and rotten
about this voluntary army business. A good
many years' ago the finest regiment in the
Highlands of Scotland was raised by the
beautiful Duchess of Gordon, who gave a
guinea and a kiss and a hug to any brawny
lout in kilts who would join the forces. She
was an enthusiast, and brawny louts were
induced to serve their country by being
allowed to paw her shoulders and take liber-
ties with her face and her back hair. Ap-
parently the voluntary army system is still
dependent on the sex problem. It is an
unmanly kind of foolishness. If a man
won’t defend his country without being pre-
viously allowed to hang round a strange
girl, a suspicion arises that the country
isn’t worth defending. No one proposes to
make the payment of the taxes which sup-
port the army a voluntary business, nor
does it occur to anybody to send out the
beautiful young Lady Gwendoline or the
bright flapper of the Countess de Vere, on
the collection racket; and have liberties
taken with her by Henry Hoopdriver, the
draper’s apprentice, in order to induce
Hoopdriver to pay his lawful dues. De-
fence, whether in cash or in kind, should be
a matter of plain business —not a thing that
is worked up in spasms by the exhibition of
a woman’s teeth or hair or smile.
♦-
The Supreme Court (N.S.W.) judgments
in the Chidley appeal case last week pro-
vided interesting examples of the point of
view of a modern man of the world, on the
one hand, and on the other of the point of
view of two entirely different sorts of men.
Chief Justice Cullen held that Ciiidley’s
book did not offend against decency, inas-
much as it could not injure the morals of
any normal human being, young or. old.
Justices Pring and Sly were of opinion
that it contained “depraving matter,” and
on this subject they went off like a couple
of mediaeval ecclesiastics. Ciiidley’s
theories may be idiotic and his legs may be
hairy; but if the publication of them. (the
theories, not the legs) is illegal, then is the
whole discussion of sex hygiene, and allied
subjects, illegal. Half a century ago the
misguided aim of moralists was to keep the
young “innocent,” for as long as possible, of
all questions of sex. The effect was dis-
astrous, physically and morally. This
gospel of the virtue of sex ignorance was
supported by sickly humbug concerning the
dreadfulness of “brushing the bloom from the
young flower,” and so forth. No other
coherent argument was ever adduced in
support of it. The modern doctor and the
modern statesman are agreed that the child
cannot learn too soon those plain facts of
life which, provided it doesn’t die, it must
learn ultimately. • The effect of a frank ex-
position of such things is to sweep away a
flood of morbid imaginings and to leave the
path clear for an explanation of the dangers
of incontinency. It is astonishing, nowa-
days, to find the dullest of citizens contend-
ing that blunt Anglo-Saxon terms are any
more contaminating to the morals of the
young or old than marble statues. Yet that,
in effect, was the contention set up by
Justices Pring and Sly last week in con-
nection with the Chidley matter. The
child or adult who could be morally pre-
judiced by the plain, though perfectly fool-
ish. language of Chidley would be liable
to be disorganised at the sight of mixed
bathing or the leg of a piano. It is discon-
certing at a time when the tendency of all
modern social and health reform is in the
direction of dispelling sex ignorance, to find
a couple of Supreme Court judges on the
side- of the fools.
“Y.Z.”: A business man in the printing
line, giving evidence before the Inter-State
Commission, said with the confidence of “one
wot knows”: “There is not an artist in
Australia who can design a poster.’ To
this I reply that as far as I am able to
survey the view there is not a business man
in Australia capable of recognising <a poster
design when he sees it. The business man
who wants a poster calls in an artist, and
the' first thing he insists upon is the sub-
version of the artist’s special knowledge and
peculiar ability to his own bull-headed (01
bill-headed) notiun of what a poster should
be. Never -in any case is it a design ; in 1J
cases out of 20 it is merely a vulgar yell about
trousers, or candles or soap. The business
man who hired a lawyer, and began by
setting aside, once and for all, the profes-
sional gentleman’s knowledge of law, would
be accounted an ass. The business man who
does ditto with an artist is a stupendous
intellect —what?
According to a recent item in Sydney Sun :
Hay, Monday.
The Murrumbidgee River continues to fall, and
has now reached the lowest level ever known to the
white man. At places it is almost possible to step
across the stream, so small is the body of water flow-
ing At the Hay Bridge, a big sandbank island exists
in the middle of the river, the water in which is
only a few feet wide and not more than nine inches
deep. A further fall of four inches would mean
that the flow must cease, and that among other
difficulties the town water supply would fail.
The municipal council applied to the Government
to suggest a means of improving the water supply
to the pumps, but a departmental officer who visited
the town confined his report to the condition of
the pumps. Tired of waiting on the Government
to take some action, the council is now building a
temporary check below the suction pump, in order
to ensure a better supply to the pumps.
The Murrumbidgee rises in the vicinity of
Cooma and Bunyan and other places, on the
watershed whence the floods pour down on
the Federal capital. It passes the Federal
capital some distance off, and absorbs in its
arrowy flight, with houses and dead bullocks
on its bosom, the waters of 30 minor rivers,
im luding the Cotter and the Molonglo—the
streams which are to irrigate the continental
metropolis at Canberra. Near the end of its
long progress (1050 miles in all) it passes
Hay. After that it only absorbs one tribu-
tary big enough to show on the map—the
Lachlan, which comes down from Condobolin
and Whealbah and Booligal and. Merrymerry-
gal and Euabalong, and places with names
like that. The Murrumbidgee is thus very
near its finish at Hay. Soon after it passes
that town it drowns itself in the Murray and
dies of wet feet. All things considered, the
’Bidgee really ought not to get into
quite such poor circumstances at Hay.. It,
should be about its best there. If the Fed-
eral centre at Canberra is the green place
it is cracked up to be, and yet its two rivers
and about 26 other rivers and the original
’Bidgee combine to form a very, very great
river that can almost be stepped over during
a dry spell, the business looks dubious or un-
fortunate or something.
Saul Among the Profits!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Minister for Works (Mr. A. Griffith) de-
fends his policy of railway construction, and declares
that any augmentation would result in a ruinous
increase in cost. —News item.
In the Ramah Morning Herald, some 3000
years ago,
There appeared some news which caused
King Saul considerable woe ;
For it said the population
Of the Israelitish nation
Had acclaimed a youth named David with :
“You’re IT!” likewise “What IIo!”
An ancient man named Samuel, who had
been a friend to Saul,
Had suddenly discovered that he wouldn’t do
at all!
For, despite the Lord’s instruction
To inflict complete destruction
On the Amaleks, Saul spared them —which
aroused old Samuel’s gall.
This Samuel had a mighty pull with Pro-
vidence, you see;
And he said to Saul : “You’ve disobeyed;
the Lord hath done with thee!”
Samuel was disappointed,
So he went forth and anointed
This very youth named David as Israel’s
king to be!
The plot w r as kept quite secret for a reason-
able while;
Meantime young David played the harp and
did his show in style ;
But the Ramah Morning Herald
The young chap’s life imperilled,
For when Saul read that same paragraph the
things he said were vile !
He vowed to take the upstart’s life, he felt
so wild and mad—
He cast a spear or two at him, but missed;
his aim was bad ;
Then, baulked from straight-out slaughter,
He made David wed his daughter;
A slower but a surer death (he
but he was had!
For Miciial —thus the girl was named —
loved David very much :
He’d paid a curious price for her —I couldn’t
mention such —
But, what with her connivance,
And Samuel’s old contrivance,
Saul found it was impossible his son-in-law
to touch!
At length he sent for Jonathan, his best
and bravest son,
And said: “I want young David’s life; go,
let the deed be done !”
But Jonathan befriended
Young David, and defended
His name and reputation and the fame that
he had won.
So Saul was reconciled to Dave, who
thought he was immune ;
He came along and harped to Saul, who
didn’t like the tune ;
And so he started cavillin’
And cast another javelin—
But David scooted swiftly forth and flitted
’neath the moon —
To Ramah, where old Samuel was and all
the prophets dwelt,
Who raised him up and prophesied exactly
what they felt
About : Jehovah knowing things,
And Saul’s rude way of throwing things,
Which (as the Ramali Morning Herald
pub it) “took the belt!”
Saul finally decided that the time had come
to actj '
He saw his methods were too crude —his
greatest need was tact —
And so he hied to Ramah
For the last act of the drama, #
And prophesied stark naked —’ tis a simple
Bible fact.
This simply staggered Samuel and all the
other chaps.
Was Saul among the prophets? Surely not !
Well, yes—perhaps !
To this day it is uncertain—
But just here I drop the curtain —
Read the Bible if you wish to know how
David dodged Saul’s traps.
’Tis the modern application of this story
that strikes me — .
A story with a moral that a wondering
world may see —
How a self-styled man of Labor
Super-taxed his friend and neighbor,.
And threw Loans upon the Market in a
fearsome jamboree!
’Tis the most amazing story of a Minister
for Works, ,
Who condemns the Constitution and the law,
where’er it irks
His intolerable craving .
To start something “money-saving
And who bills the State unfairly, and all
explanation shirks !
He, for years, has been the foremost of a
credit-wrecking crew —
He, for years, has howled the loudest tor
another lOU! —
He’s the man for money-burning,
In stone-laying and sod-turning,
But he’ll be among. the Absents when his
Loans are falling due!
Now the Treasury is empty and the Loans
are failing fast, .
And the revenue is dropping, and the good,
fat years are past,
You observe a transformation —
Ere he reaches sheer stagnation,
Saul is seen among the profits —Griffith
WANTS TO SAVE AT LAST !
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing: the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From 11/6 Day;
£3 I Os. Week.
THE DUDLEY'
CONCERTINA
fh
ORGAN - NED CONCERTINAS IN
HANDSOME BOXES.
No. 4. Rosewood style tops, 10 I
German Silver Keys, 8-fold Bel-
lows. Post free 10/6
No. 5. Rosewood style tops, with I
Trumpet holes, 10 Bone Keys, 8-
fold Bellows, with clasp. Post
free i 1.5/-
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS OF ALL KINDS.
Send for Catalogues.
A. P. SYKES,
?72t !T7iF rot|'NSVMELBOURNF
WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
“fruit laxative” at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of “California Syrup of
Figs.” There is no need to put up with these
things until to-morrow, waiting for bedtime
to take medicine. “California Syrup of Figs”
will begin to do you good the moment you
take it at any hour —and cause no discom-
fort. This pleasant-tasting, refreshing fruit
laxative cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps
away all accumulations of undigested food,
and stimulates the liver to assist in relieving
the bowels. By evening the tongue will be
clear again and the overflow of bile swept
away: you will be yourself again, with a
good appetite and digestion. This is the
medicine which does such wonders for chil-
dren of all ages; but it is every bit as good
for grown-up people, and there are full direc-
tions for every age with the bottle. Take
care to buy the genuine, as there are imita-
tions on the market. Ask for “California
Syrup of Figs,” and look for the name and
trade mark of the “California Fig Syrup Co.”
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup of
Figs,” 1/11 and 1/9 per bottle.
Political fragment from the Speck:—
Tasmania’s Solomon has flung in his political
marble, and Opposition leader Earle has succeeded to
to his job. The Solomon Government was defeated
on a no-confidence motion on Wednesday of last week,
by 15 to 14. The majority consisted of one Whit-
sitt, who, in disgust at the alleged incapacity of
the Lib. Government to grasp the intricacies of the
potato trade, busted his Lib. marriage tie and voted
with the Labor party. The Solomon Government
asked for a dissolution on Thursday, failed to get it,
and resigned on Friday. Earle was then sent for,
and was told that if he agreed to have an election
straight away his Ex. would be graciously pleased to
request him to form a Ministry. Otherwise, there
would be a dissolution, with the (already resigned)
Solomon Ministers as election conductors. Earle
naturally demurred, presumably on the grounds that
if the Electoral Act was not amended before the
elections, neither party of 15 would be likely to
secure a working majority at the polls, and there
would be a continuous procession of general elections
until the electors all fell dead of exhaustion, or
butchered. the politicians in self-defence. But it
appears that Governor Ellison-Macartney, ob-
sessed with the quaint idea that though Premier
Solomon had been defeated in a straight-out no-confi-
dence motion, he was still his responsible adviser,
whose advice he was bound to take, insisted on Earle
accepting the conditions or nothing. And Earle,
possibly desirous of placing himself in a position to
argue the point through the Secretary of State for
the Colonies, finally pocketed his indignation and
accepted the commission to form a Ministry. The
conditions imposed by the Governor can only bind
Ministers; if the House declines to observe the con-
ditions, and stresses the right of Parliament to con-
duct its business in its own way, there ought to be
some interesting developments. The Lord knows
what is in Macartney’s mind, but if he is relying
upon the facts that the Labor party cannot be cer-
tain of Whitsitt’s continued support, and that Labor
failed to poll a majority of votes at the general elec-
tions, held 16 months ago—if he is reiving on these
things to justify him in flouting the rights of a clear
majority of the Assembly, as expressed in a direct
no-confidence vote, there is grave trouble for some-
body. Anyhow, and at the very worst, there are the
makings of an attractive Constitutional scrap in the
offing.
At a meeting of the Women’s Political
Ass. (Melbourne), last week, president
Vida Goldstein introduced a parson who
delivered a Wowserious address on the “dan-
ger” of substituting the Tote for the book-
maker on racecourses. The reverend absur-
dity didn’t put the case in quite that way.
He asked “is it not better to fight the book-
maker than the totalisator, or both the book-
maker and the totalisator?” Seeing that
betting is as unsuppressible as derrink, and
the Tote is the only means whereby the
bookmaker can at present be effectively
maimed or killed (as far as the general pub-
lic is concerned) the parson whom Miss
Goldstein placed before the W.P.A. as a
guiding light re the betting evil might as
well have honestly championed the cause of
llolimoses. Therefore it is interesting to
remember that the name of Goldstein
spells Jewish sympathy with the Holimoses
aforesaid. Miss Vida was practically en-
deavoring to form her little Asso. into
an anti-Tote League, her chief supporter
in this bad work being a lady named
Morris. The Bulletin would earnestly
advise all the wives and female relatives of
all the Melbourne bookmakers to join the
Goldstein Political Association.
General Gough, the British cavalry com-
mander who got the lamentable guarantee
that shook the Asquith Government, is
either a stupendous and daring humorist or
else a very solemn and thick-headed muti-
neer. After running to headquarters to
argue with his furious superiors, and get-
ting from them a legal document to the
effect that he would not be required to honor
his oath of allegiance if the wind blew from
the north, or potatoes became 2d. dearer, he
rejected the purely .legal writing and asked
for a concise guarantee in simple lan-
guage, saying pompously: “We are only
plain soldiers .” If all soldiers were as
“plain” as Gough, war would be merely a
bloodless matter of Costs, and a bale of his-
tory would never have been written —at
least, it would never have been written with
the sword-point.
“Me”: It is time that the directors of the
lort Jackson and Manly Ferries became
Australian. Recently I tendered a good
Commonwealth ten-shilling note for change
at the Quay; but the boy in the box, who
havl evidently never heard of Australia, re-
fused to consider the cursed thing. And this
morning I tendered another legal ten-shilling
note at Manly, not for the purpose of get-
ting silver and coppers in exchange, but for
the purchase of a half-crown weekly ticket,
and the youth in the Manly office haughtily
refused to handle the painful object. Another
passenger offered a good Australian £1 note,
with the . same nesult. Some of the people
you meet don’t seem to know that refusal to
accept our country’s legal tender is an offence
which is punishable at law. In fact, some
of them are so bumptious that they appar-
ently consider themselves bigger and more
important than the law, and so ignorant
that they don’t, know their own country’s
money when they see it. Also some of them
are so flagrant and important and top-
hatted that they think they own all the
money in the world. If this sort of thing
happens again I will have some foolish old
ass of a ferry-boat arrested. Our Common-
wealth is part; of the British Empire, and
its Government money is King George’s
recognised currency. Any disloyal blighter
who refuses to take or recognise circulate
the good King’s currency is due for gaol.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Forty Thieves.”
. ALACB “Wearing of the Green.”
Adelphi “The Tenderfoot.”
Little Theatre “The Gay Lord Quex.”
livolx Mclntosh s Vaudeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium & Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Prince Alfred Park... Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
King’s “What Happened to Mary.”
R0ya1..., “Madame X.”
Princess’s Harry Lauder.
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
♦
The Very Reverend Editor discourses thus
from his pulpit, No. 59a, in the extreme
corner of the dress-circle of Sydney Royal,
after a week’s wailing and gnashing of
tooth: —
And it came to pass that from the place wherein
he sate he saw at divers times many of the great
multitude of players in the stage-land of Egypt,
and the player that pleased him mightily was Cap-
tain Potiphar; yea, he looked like an officer and a
gentleman, and the scenes wherein he spake to Mrs.
Potiphar were verily drama. But Joseph, the son
of Rachel, looked like the daughter of Rachel, and
there is a suspicion that Rachel advertised offer-
ing the highest price for left-off clo’, also false
teeth. And Malcolm Tearle, neither in his declama-
tion nor his action, looked like a man likely to
bring to pass the first Master-Butchers’ lock-out in
the land of Egypt, which came to pass in the lean
years of the Camel-meat-strike. And though,
verily, no blame should be cast upon a man who
looketh foolish in a temptation scene, whether on
the stage or off, there was not to be found in this
player the power to move the assembled congrega-
tion of Philistines. But it is to be said that in his
declamations he spake with vigor; yet he possesseth
no subtlety in his conception of the part whereof he
is the player.
Edward O’Neill, who took on the guise of Simeon,
an adder in the path of Joseph, that biteth the
horses heels, so that his rider shall fall backward,
showed himself before the people as a clever Irish
Israelite, whose real name was probably Moses
Potheen, from Tipperary. George Bryant, who was
Reuben, the eldest brother, was wholly Convincing.
But Pharaoh (Stuart Garner), though surrounded
with much majesty, gave to the beholders little im-
pression of a despotic and sacrosanct ruler. Henry
G. Butler, Carlton Rex and Alfred Scarlett, who
served the great Pharaoh as head-cooks and bottle-
washers, and Fred Cambourne, as a comic captain,
added much to the impressiveness of the story.
Though Pharaoh disapproved of Miss Beryl Ander-
son, the graceful leader of the dancers—his gesture
at the end of the ballet gave them 14 days in the
dungeons beneath the Pyramid without the option—
the congregation strongly dissented from that judg-
ment. Miss Dorothy Whittaker was pleasing as Asenath,
who became afterwards Mrs. Joseph and begat two
children, Gad and Manasseh; and Miss Gwen Bur-
“THE FORTY THIEVES," AT HER
MAJESTYS, SYDNEY.
All Baba (Barry Lupino) “Strewth !” Also,
the dame (Edwin Brett) seeing a spectre, and
an Australian bushman as seen in the Ballet.
roughs easily coped with her not-exacting duties as
Zuleika’s maid. Decoratively Miss Ethel Warwick
was the ideal Airs. Potiphar; her inflections of
voice, though traditional in stage temptresses, vam-
pires and Flossies (either beside the Thames or the
were beautiful to the ear; but as a temptress
any flapper could tempt more satisfactorily. But
her chances in the story were so obscured by the
several other plots that she had but two opportuni-
ties to show her powers, and in these she was, at
least theatrically, effective enough.
Some of the other 28 speaking parts in the play
were for so brief a time on the third of the stage
commanded by seat number 59a, that the lowly dog
who sate thereon could not identify them; but,
from what he saw, “Joseph and His Brethren” is
a play finely produced, and without minor flaws.
Since he is prevented from enthusing over the gor-
geous perspectives that he saw not, all he can do
to help along an excellent melodramatic show is to
add that the play is full of wigs by Barris and
Brown, and that all the wigs he gazed upon were
good Nor could he see whether Benjamin really
ate the whole of his mess, which, according to the
script, was five times as much mess as that of any
of his brothers, nor even whether he really had five
dinners at once. Nor could he see how wet Benja-
min got when Joseph fell on his neck and wept.
For none of these things are to be seen from seat
number 59a.
Still he is willing to lend Benjamin an umbrella,
for if the play has a long run that youth is evi-
dently liable to rheumatism in the back, through
Joseph’s tears running down him as far as the fifth
rib.
The verdict of the Court is that Joseph ought to
blot Benjamin with blotting-paper. All his life
this writer has been yearning to see a blotted Ben-
jamin, and now it seems that he will die with his
craving unsatisfied,
"JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN," AT
SYDNEY ROYAL. (View from 59a.)
The success of “Never Say Die,” at Syd-
ney Criterion, carries Fred Niblo’s capable
Australian team over the Easter disturbance.
Saturday evening will be the last chance of
Sydney playgoers to see “The Great Adven-
ture” at the Little Theatre. It is a chance
that should not be missed. On the after-
noon of Easter Monday that brilliant example
of Pinero’s stage-craft, “The Gay Lord
Quex,” happily reminiscent of the Broughs,
will be presented by Hugh Buckler. “The Gay
Lord Quex” is remembered as one of the few
plays where the woman who listens at the
keyhole late at night gets all that is coming
to her. The man inside hears her breathing
with a sound that suggests deep interest, and
he drags the door open suddenly. The result
is that she falls in with a shriek, a dressing-
gown, an untidy ruin of back hair, a great
show of slippers and feet, a heap of disgrace
and an utter loss of self-respect. The sud-
den and silent opening of the door is the
simplest device for the upsetting of plots.
The next best device is to step softly on the
balcony and empty a whole bedroom jug of
water over the person who dwells upon the
threshold. Many a fallen dynasty might
have been saved if water had been poured
from the balcony at the right moment.
* * *
The first carnival at Sydney’s White City
(fixed for Wednesday) was threatening to be
a marked success at time of writing, but this
paper refuses to go any further in prophecy.
The dust of the past is littered with disap-
pointments of new shows, new drinks, horses,
politicians, chorus girls, choir girls, other
fellows’ girls, actors, jockeys and pugs who
have all threatened to _be marked successes,
oome of them were spoiled by the inclemency
of the weather, and some simply weren’t good
enough. Anyhow, there is this much to go
on with as far as the White City’s carnival
is concerned: So many entries for the fancy
dress competitions have been received that a
second or duplicate carnival has had to be
arranged for April 15.
The Sydney Adelphi will be closed to-night
and to-morrow night, to give the tears, shed
while Little Willie (c/o “East Lynne”) was
dying, time to dry up, as well as to allow all
concerned to attend the funeral of Bellow-
drama. On Saturday night the newly-
arrived Yankee comedy company opens with
“The Tenderfoot.”
** * *
Next time The Bulletin goes to Wirths’
Circus (now showing at Prince Alfred Park,
Sydney), it’s going to take its gun and there
will be a dozen or so of the uniformed attend-
ants out of action within five minutes, and
several clowns will also be the central figures
in a series of assassinations. Other than
those this paper wishes none of the per-
formers any harm. The 1914 variation of
the original show is quite up to its prede-
cessors. But on Saturday night there were
several unfortunate non-appearances. The
Bedouin Arabs, tumblers, gun spinners, etc.,
etc., supplied an acceptable excuse, but the
performing bears merely fell off the pro-
gramme and nothing further was heard of
them —not even the thud or the wild cry
of the bear’s grease. No doubt these, too,
would have given the programme a consider-
able lift. Albert Toulouse provides a some-
what sensational balancing turn on a cart-
load of chairs and tables, for which he gets
a mention in the programme. His lady
assistant does an even more thrilling balanc-
ing stunt on a pair of atrocious heels, and
gets no kudos whatever. Dare-devil Des-
perado, after much preliminary fuss, dives
from the top of the tent on to a chute
arrangement, with so much promise of
mangled remains that it is alleged the life
assurance officers won’t risk him. George
and Alec Christie are responsible for some
good trick riding, so also are the Brothers
Baston and Mr. Florimund, alias one of the
Bastons, alias various other things in pre-
vious years. The Flying Codonas (who will,
perhaps, be the Flying Something-Elses next
year, and were possibly the Flying
Something Quite Differents last year),
in a swinging trapeze item; Scrolton
and Skremka in a clever and mus-
cular gymnastic act; Doblado’s more or
less trained sheep and pigs; Madame Berzac,
millionaire horse-trainer” (wfio contrives
without apparent exertion to get on the
nerves of the bobites) ; Senorita Delinda,
trapezist; and a heap of very fine horses all
help to make up “the greatest show on
earth.”
tt “File Forty Thieves,” which arrived at
Her Majesty’s Theatre (Sydney) from Mel-
bourne on Saturday night last, is all that a
pantomime should be. Amongst a vast
assortment of allurements may be noted
acres of beautiful scenery, armies of beauti-
ful girls, forests _ of beautiful legs, much
music, some ragtime, and a number of the
grandest old jokes in the language. Edwin
Brett supplies a sterling picture of one of
those elderly panto, ladies who maintain a
kind of demented cheeriness through all sorts
of harassing experiences. Barry Lupino is
a tremendous success as her erring and
pusillanimous husband. The Bulletin’s
old friend, J. B. Atholwood, brings to the
sordid and scoundrelly role of Cassim Baba
the essential touch of horror. Miss Dolly
Harmer represents an immigrant servant-
girl with a torrent of genial vigor. Miss
Jessie Lonnen, Miss Dorothy Firmin, Miss
Eatchford and Miss Ruby Kennedy all evade
reproach with ease, and Miss Marie Eaton’s
singing is superb. The three Rubes dance
and violently assault one another like trades-
men ; also, the ballets are irreproachable.
The writer refrains warily from saying more
at the present juncture, in view of the fact
that he anticipates having to ring the
changes on the above remarks for two or
three months to come.
W. C. Field’s “The Silent Humorist” made
his re-appearance after a goodly spell at the
Sydney Tivoli on Saturday night. With
his delightful mixture of humor and jug-
gling, Fields “comes back” with even more
success than William Lang. Gilday and
Fox. the Daunton Shaw troupe, The Leo-
pards and “The Sacrifice” are there in case
Fields is considered under-weight for the
money.
HARRY LAUDER ARRIVES IN
AUSTRALIA.
Some mixed shows of Sydney:—
Crystal Palace : “Fitzhugh’s Ride,” another Yan-
kee Civil War yarn, and no connection whatever witli
the serio-chronic affair once produced in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, entitled “Fitzpat’s Hide.”
Lyric : “For the Wear in’ of the Green,” a full-
blooded Irish rebellion story.
Colonial : “Indian Fate,” an Indian yarn with
a minimum of bloodstain.
“A Drama in Iveyville,” being another
of those ridiculous hits on amateur, bellowdramatic
cos.’ productions.
Spencer’s Lyceum : “The Three Musketeers,” evi-
dently come to stay. Friday night, a sacred film,
“The Life of Christ.”
West's Glaciarium and Olympia: “The Three
Shadows,” supposed to be a sequel of Holman’s
pathetic farce, “The Three Balls.” On Friday
night, “Joe and His Brethren.”


AN EASY WAY TO REMOVE
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
l or the benefit of our lady readers who
suffer from the humiliating disfigurement of
hair on face, lips or chin, we publish here-
with a formula which has the advantage of
being simple and inexpensive, as well as
-marvellously effective. It is not claimed
«by our informant that one application will
-permanently destroy the hair roots, but it is
-claimed, and the claims are borne out by
tests, that one application completely
the hair, and its regular use, one or
jtwo days apart, will quickly and perman-
ently destroy the hair root itself. If you
have hair which you wish permanently re-
moved, ask your chemist to mix drams
Pulverized Sul thine Concentrate with 2J
idrams Zinc Oxide, P. 8., and 1 dram of
Powdered Orris Root, and put in a wide
mouth bottle. For use, mix a little of the
jpowder into a paste on a plate by adding a
few drops of water. Apply with a narrow
T knife blade and remove at the end of two
minutes with the back of the knife, when the
•dissolved hair will come with it. Repeat at
intervals of two days. Each time the growth
will be less, until it entirely disappears. A
good non-greasy cream, such as Creme To-
Kalon, may be used after each application.
•CAUTION: —This must rot he used as a
■substitute for shaving, as its repeated use
completely destroys the hair roots.*
VIOLENT PAINS AND PURGING.
“I recommend Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea
Remedy as being the most satisfactory medicine for
colic, diarrhoea or dysentery,” writes Mr. Cecil C.
Hooper, storekeeper, Wakefield, N.Z. “At times I am
seized with violent pains and purging, and have
tried several so-called cures, but find nothing equal to
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.”*
A Help in
Kidney Troubles.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
“The Land of Nod” will disperse as a
beautiful ragtime dream this week from the
Palace (Sydney), and Bonnie will wake up
and get work, beating it for Victoria. Bil-
anderson will hold the theatre until Good
Friday, when during the afternoon and
evening of that day he will, for a considera-
tion, provide a moving picture display of
Alaska, Siberia and Arctic localities not
accessible to week-enders. On Saturday
Allen Doone will be on the old pitch with
“The Wearing of the Green.”
The National Amphitheatre (Sydney) is
attracting more than usual attention this
week by reason of the fact that “The Pool-
room” is being played by the Fred C. Hagan
Co. from the Land of the Stars and Trusts.
“The Poolroom” is a condensed drama of
pigeons, crooks, gunmen and other trim-
mings of the east side of Noo Yark. It is
quick in action, sharp of dialogue and well
acted. Other new-comers since last The
Bulletin referred to the hall are Carl
Bentzen and Phyllis Lawton (with another
consignment of tangos, two-steps, cat-claws,
bunny-hugs, lag-holds and ground and lofty
dancing), the .Tackowlews (who do the
tango in Russian —anyhow, it looks like the
tango would look if it were done in Russian
under the auspices of the Bomb Depositors’
Union), and II Trovatore trio (burlesque
people).
** * *
The opening of the Dancing Salon de
Luxe (Sydney) is announced for the 21st
inst. The new saraband, the Maxixe, will
be featured or otherwise made prominent,
and the turkey trot, tango, etc., will be con-
spicuent upon the floorscape.
* * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
Mrs. Gwen Barringer, greatly daring, is having a
one-woman show of her own at the Society of Arts
Gallery. Without any foreign experience, she has
worked up from being the ordinary painter of flowers
and scenery to a phase in which her brush has some-
thing of its own to say. A period of study under
Heysen, and familiarity with his white-gum hills,
have given her euealypts a marked distinction, with
an unmistakable touch of his spirit. In pen and ink
and architecture she has good work. Barring a good
little “Milson’s Point, Sydney,” and a few Melbourne
things, all her inspirations are local, and the red
label of practical approval is already frequent. So
far, buyers seem to go mostly for her “earlier”
—and distinctly less artistic—things.
** * *
The brightest thing in sight in Adelaide
is the re-opening of the Theatre Royal, to
take place on Easter Saturday. Last Satur-
day there still remained much to be done,
but manager Myers and all concerned cheer-
fully make oath that the curtain will rise
on “The Count of Luxemburg” at the ap-
pointed time. The Royal is Adelaide’s sole
theatre for the “legitimate,” and it has been
closed for long enough to be missed. At
the King’s are Howard’s dogs and bears,
also the mdsieal “Stella” three, and a Liver-
more animated doll—a girl really, of course,
but when she comes alive enough people-
gasp with surprise to prove the success of
her acting. Josephine Davis, who has a
special charm of her own (also her cos-
tumes are pronounced by sound judges to
be Dreams), holds the Tivoli stage, and the
Homaz equilibrists have bucked the pro-
gramme up on the athletic side. Tango
teas twice a week continue to be a successful
feature of this house. West’s, Wonder-
graph, Pav. and Empire are filming “drama,”
startling in one sense but not in the other,
and more desirable. Wondergraph co. is
also presenting at the Town Hall Waller’s
“Butterflies,” costume entertainers with big
credentials from Maoriland and Melbourne.
So the Dandies (Branscombe’s), whose open-
air season must be nearing its limit, are
opening out with doings by Roland Henry,
a tango by George Taylor and Miss
McQuoin, and Collins and Brown (new-
comers) in ragtime.
*# * *
The disconnected happenings of “Come
Over Here,” which begins with a tendency
to a plot and terminates in a dress parade-
cum-tango tail, seem to be growing in favor
: at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). A revue is
-either the more welcome for coming directly
: after a panto, or the less appreciated on that
account. The question as to how “Come
'Over Here” strikes a panto-fed and tango
rtea-soddened community can be left for time
to tell. At present the community is rolling
iup in a state of profuse expectation. The
iLadies of the Lake —or rather, of the tank
which is disguised as a Roman bath and
advertised as the Yarra of the future, walk
(down to their watery graves in the presence
<ot full houses. There are charming items
iin the revue, and, others that appear some-
what tripeful to the critical. For instance,
tfhe acrobatic dance of the girleens in browny
red is a joyful thing, likewise the darkened
ditty of Olive Godwin, with colored lights
in the choral background, whereas Fred
Leslie’s altercation with bogus members of
the audience represents theatrical enter-
tainment in its crudest form. Once or twice
last week Daisy Jerome was missing from
the show on account of a cold, and the value
of her personality was very apparent in the
temporary loss of it. Daisy, talking
songs from the plank, is an interesting
figure—an artist of some importance. Among
the items in second and weaker act her
sermon on the Press, the Pulpit and the
Petticoat commands respect, the manner of
the preacher being so much more forcible
than the matter of her discourse. It is an
advantage, of course, for any serio-chronic
lady to be able to walk along a plank over
the orchestra’s head in order to impress the
audience, but one feels that even under
normal conditions Miss Jerome could hold
her own with the best in her narrow line of
business.
❖ * *
Harry Lauder, the braw kilted character
songster whose name is familiar in our
mouths as short-bread and whose smile on
the posters is as genial as a Scotch pie, will
make his first appearance at Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday, together with a
variety co. The scale of prices ranges from
10s. 6d. to 35., and the length of the Lauder
season will be five weeks, it is said. Mean-
while, on Good Friday night the stage will
be required for a mostly-musical entertain-
ment, with Philip Newbury as star and a
spice of dramatic recitation in the bill. Miss
Josephine Samuell’s name is on the list of
Newbury’s supporters.
At Melbourne King’s the Bert Bailey co.
will finish wit-h “Our Selection” to-morrow
(Thursday), and make its first attempt at
“What Happened to Mary” on Saturday.
The intervening night is booked by Walter
Kirby for “sacred” concert purposes.
“MADAME X," AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
Some of the gents of the jury.
At the Melbourne Opera House Tivoli
(which might be called the Op. Tiv. till
people assimilate the change of name) a
period of two-shows-a-night system will be
inaugurated on Saturday. The system
was lately taken up and dropped by the
Brennan-Fuller management at the neigh-
boring Bijou, but then the Bijou is a house
where no new system has been in the habit
of attaining old age. The Tivoli innovation
will get a fair touch of the public pulse,
anyhow. Ada Reeve, the bright singer and
dancer whom Australia knew when she was
Bert Gilbert’s young bride, looms large in
the announcements of the forthcoming co.
It will seemingly be a new co. in
all respects, and the first of the two-a-night
performances will start at 6.30 p.m.
Meanwhile Tivoli Tango Teas are catering
for the appetite of the passing hour. The
latest feature is a “Delightful Parade of
Brides’ Silk Nighties,” assisted by “Knickers
and Camisoles,” also Kimonos and Bath
Sandals. A march of Chest Protectors and
Curling Pins may be expected to ensue
shortly.
The Melbourne Auditorium arrangements
for Easter are a Mary Conly concert on
Good Friday, three Paul Dufault concerts
beginning on Monday, and Saturday Pops as
usual.
® * *
At Melbourne Royal the moan of Miss
Muriel Starr in her misery is attracting a
lot of sympathetic attention. The trial of
Madame X. for shooting her unaccountable
admirer is perhaps the most satisfactory pre-
sentation of a scene in court that melodrama
ever arrived at (save, perhaps, a court-scene
in an old melo. the name of which this writer
now disremembers, wherein Walter Baker
used to die in the middle of his evidence,
amid a litter and d4bris of unreliable state-
ments!. It brings the tear to many a nose
and the lump to every throat. The poor,
wrecky prisoner has strengthened her grip
of her position since the first night; also her
husband seems more completely broken-up
by his recollections of how he put her out
on the mat in the prologue. Madame X.’s
son is no longer the young man Bellbridge
of whom The Bulletin spoke admiringly
last week. He was substituted in a hurry
for one Ward, who had taken over the part
at rehearsal from somebody else. Ward,
who is a very slim and meagre figure of a
son, came to light during last week, with
the result that the speech for the defence
is not quite so effective as when the other
young man delivered it. Ward, however, is
satisfactory in all respects save his lack of
weight.
“A Lady of Quality” will perturb the
Wowsers of West’s (Melb.) congregation.
There is far too much alcohol in it. Nearly
every gentleman is a kind of ennobbled tank,
or titled cask. Also the heroine goes about
in men’s pants—a practice which is severely
discountenanced ampng members of the
Methody faith. During all this time the
wretched young woman remains in close
touch with the decanter and tobacco-jar.
In other respects the film is excellent. Next
week West stars “Atlantis,” a distended
story of love and disease interspersed with
shipwreck. A .complete list of the drowned
may be had on application to the manage-
ment.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A man named Schaef, of Wellington (M.L.), has
experienced some of the incidental dangers of
mechanical flight. He imported a monoplane with
which he intended to do great things, but the first
day he took it out on to the beach at Lyall Bay
he had a sideslip that made the elegant machine
look like a big moth that had been flirting with a
candle. Next morning he went to town to get some
tools to effect repairs, and told an assistant to heat
up the gluepot while he was away. The assistant
used a brazing lamp for the job, and as there was too
much wind outside he took it into the shed. Some-
thing Went wrong with the lamp, and it exploded,
setting fire to the whole show. When Schaef came
back he found only a lot of twisted ironwork and a
heap of ashes. The ironwork was worth about 3|d.,
but the market price of the ashes has been with-
held.
“Melb”: The Opera House (Melb.) has just yielded
that name, and becomes the Tivoli. Of course it will
remain as “’Arry Ricketts’s” with the populace. The
original place of amusement on the site was called
The Varieties. Burnt, and the first Opera House
opened in 1872. The new Royal opened later the
same year, on Cup night, the old house having been
burnt in Feb., 1872. The play on the first
night of the Opera House was, “London Assurance,”
with Mrs. Gladstone and W. J. Holloway. Lyster
afterwards took it. The Rickards occupation began
with an entirely new theatre in 1900.
“MADAME X," AT
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
MISS MURIEL
STARR AS
MADAME X .
The portability of the modern ' picture-show is
neatly evidenced in the case of “Ireland To-day,”
which M. P. Adams is about to carry from Melbourne
to Westralia as easily as a warehouseman’s
“drummer” carries his samples. He takes only a tin
of films, a basket of “posters,” and a bag of pre-
pared printing material—advts. and paragraphs.
Three years ago, when M.P.A. toured Vic. with the
“Australia at Work” picture show, the equipment
consisted of 15ewt. of stuff —engine and dynamo,
projecting outfit and emergency limelight set —and
six people for working the business in townships
where there was no established picture theatre with
a satisfactory plant. Within the past three years
every place worth visiting with a speciality has got
a picture theatre, an adequate projecting apparatus,
and electric light laid on. So Adams makes terms
with a resident picture-showman to come along at a
given time and supply “Ireland To-day” films, and
talk about them whilst they are fleeting across the
screen, in the same way that a touring actor-manager
undertakes to stage “Hamlet” at the local theatre,
himself supplying scenery and company whilst the
proprietor finds music, lighting and working staff.
Scenery and co. in this case are contained in the
tin of films. The man who carries the tin is advance
agent, press agent, manager, producer and booster-in-
general.
At the Old Residents’ annual meeting at Mount
Gambier (S.A.), Alfred Hayes denied positively
that A. L. Gordon personally did the “Ride from
the Wreck,” he wrote about. The wreck being ad-
mittedly that of the Admella (August, 1859), Peter
Bigg was the man who brought the news to the
Mount. “Gordon was not in the district at the time.
He did not arrive at Mount Gambier for six weeks
afterwards.” However, Browning’s even more famous
gallop from Ghent to Aix is in a worse plight. The gal-
lop seems never to have happened at all! Incidentally
Browning forgot to profess to know when it hap-
pened, or what the three men were galloping about.
It is said that, in one of his lucid intervals, he
admitted that, being a very miserable passenger on
board ship, he felt a craving for dry land and some
less heaving mode of conveyance, and wrote the
poem in consequence. It is one of his works
which doesn’t sound more coherent when read back-
wards, so it has great merit.
“Vic.”: Our Governor is proud of his wife being
from the Kemble family. Roger Kemble was a
strolling manager in the 18th century, performing
even round the barns. His children were Stephen,
John, Sarah and Charles. Stephen was a fat man,
and a tolerable actor. John became leader of the
English stage. Charles was good, especially as
Falconbridge, Mercutio and Benedick. Sarah mar-
ried Siddons, an actor in her father’s company. She
was the greatest performer that ever appeared in
London. Her son Henry became a manager in Edin-
burgh. She had also two daughters, who died unmarried.
Her descendants came from Henry, who accounted
somehow for little Mrs. Scott Siddons, familiar in
Australia, with a face very like that of the great
Sarah. Charles Kemble’s daughter was Fanny Kemble,
distinguished as an actress. Myra Kemble, in
Australia, was not of the family. I fancy her name
was Mary Campbell (another Dryasdust may correct
me). She emerged from the crowd in the Melbourne
Theatre Royal ballet, and so did Jenny Watt Tanner.
That ballet was also responsible for Mrs. Musgrove
and her sister, in the time of the Maynards,- the
Melroses, and the sisters Alice and Blanche Bray,
Fred Coppin’s step-daughters. The Dictionary of
National Biography wrongly states that George
Coppin married widow Bray, whereas his wife was
widow Hillsden. Frank Ilillsden married Alice Bray.
Myra Kemble married bookmaker White. (To be con-
tinued at the Day of Judgment, for almost everybody
marries somebody sooner or later, or one day or
another.)
The U.S. authorities arrested a performing monkey
the other day for smoking at a music-hall perform-
ance. Action was taken under a State law which
forbids smoking by anyone under 14 years of age.
The onus was on the owners of the animal to show
that it was 14 or over, and as its birth certificate
had been mislaid in some Central African jungle or
other they were up against it, and had to pay a
fine of five dollars. This paper has no kick coming.
Any proceeding which tends to discourage the pro-
prietors of performing monkeys has its hearty sym-
pathy. No man should live on his poor relations.
He should get work.
“Way Verley Penn”: Press cables of early February
briefly referred to “the first English Geisha.” Tokio
press of the same period styled the lady “the first
foreign Geisha.” O Lena San, as she calls herself,
is English, aged 35; the widow of an English
reporter on a Kobe paper. Since being widowed she
has earned her living by music-teaching and nursing
work in Chinese and Korean households. She speaks
French, Russian, Chinese and Japanese, and plays
the piano, violin and the fearful samisen. She
secured her license as a geisha (musician in a tea-
house) by means of the Tsuru Yoshinaka, one of the
geisha-girl supplying firms, in Kanagawa, a suburb
of Yokohama. Doesn’t affect kimonos, but wears
English evening costumes when on duty, “sitting
on the matting floor quite as easily as if she was a
Japanese,” writes a Tokio editor.
St. Kilda (Melb.) has got hold of a good district
citizen named Stenhouse—seemingly a Gentile among
the Chosen —who is placing things of beauty and use-
fulness On the local seashore. He erected two kiosks
to be used as life-saving stations and shelters, and
furnished them with double sets of life-saving appli-
ances. Also he fixed up several serviceable tables for
picnickers at a shady spot. And now he is import-
ing a first-class bronze statue of the late Captain
Cook, which will be an adornment to St. Kilda West
beach. The donor states that civic beautification of
the foreshore inspired him to these gifts. Everything
blows St. Kildawards these times. Sassiety is com-
ing from afar off to the Palais de Dance, and “Bill”
Kenny, son of old Captain Kenny, who was the early
father of the place, is busy raising the necessary
capital for a Grand Palais de Mer, pour le mixed
bain.
The granting of a Legion of Honor to Sara
Bernhardt recalls an old joke, inappropriate now she
has grown matronly, but made 20 years back, when
her skeletonic thinness was a byword. There was
some idea of giving her the same Red Ribbon even
then. “Impossible,” said the cynical Parisians.
“It has to be hung on the breast, and that is a
thing our Sara could not do.” Those were the days
when Sara had to sell her dog because the animal
took her for a bone and wanted to gnaw her in the
yard.
“Star”: I was present the other day when a bland
theatrical manager interviewed a large bunch of
Melbourne girls. He had advertised for ladies, tall,
pretty and graceful, and there were all sorts in the
bunch. I was lost in admiration of the diplomacy
of that man. The way he turned them off would
have done honor to a combination Richelieu and
Machiavelli. Presently came a stumpy, waistless
damsel, with flat feet and freckles. It seemed to
me the man was beaten. But no! “After all,” he
told her, “it isn’t only strikingly pretty girls we
want —they must be tall.” She went away happy.
After all, the best advt. a panto, can have is the
song with a catchy refrain that gets the adults by
the ear and moves the kiddies to chorus-singing. In
this year’s panto, the musical story of Percy’s girl
is the most popular item, although the-kiddies are not
directly invited to gave it a lift. The refrain
appeals to them. Towards the end of the Melbourne
season the jaded panto, was refreshed by the spon-
taneous warbling of “O Jerusalem! Come and see
what Percy’s picked up in the park.” Youthful
soprano voices give their sweetest intonations to “Jee-
rusalem.” They have sung it 60 often —in hymns.
They attack that holy word with all the confidence
born of familiarity.
“Bookware”: A preposterous half-crown book is
issued with a verbatim report of the trial of John
Jasper for the murder of Edwin Drood. It was on
the night of January 7, at the theatre of the National
Sporting Club, known as King’s Hall, Covent
Garden. Chesterton was Judge, and the jury includ-
ing Shaw, as foreman, Sir E. Russell, Courtney,
Jacobs, Ridge, Gallon, Pemberton, liernahan, De
Morgan, McCarthy, Archer and others less known.
The attention given by the press, both before and
after, was absurd. For instance, the Morning Post
had a three-column report, and the Daily Telegraph
a leading article. The affair was botched through
the impishness of Shaw and the out-of-place inven-
tions by one Jones, who represented Bazzard in
giving evidence. Fanny Kemble said that if Shak-
speare saw Irving’s Shylock he would rewrite the
play. Nobody would say that of Dickens and this
Bazzard. In short, the trial was guyed, and Shaw
gave his own nonsensical verdict of manslaughter.
Yet the counsel, the jury in general, and witnesses,
had meant the affair to be a solemn and genuine
attempt to decide what Dickens had intended his
unfinished story to be. Conceited geniuses ought
not to have been admitted.
Some reasons why the British Board of Film Cen-
sors (which is really S. A. Redford) ruled out pic-
tures last year:—
Indelicate or suggestive situations.
Indecent dancing.
Holding up a minister of religion to ridicule.
Cruelty to animals.
Indelicate accessories in the staging.
Judicial executions.
Excessive drunkenness.
Native customs in foreign lands abhorrent to
British ideas.
Impropriety in conduct and dress.
Materialisation of Christ or the Almighty.
t John Nobbs, who up till last elections in
New South Wales was one of the best-known
characters in the Assembly, was handed a
gilded consolation last week by his friends
(he is too mild and unbellicose to have any
enemies worth mentioning) for his defeat at
the polls. He represented Granville for 27
years in the Assembly, was its first chair-
man of the Progress Committee, ditto of the
School of Arts, and original or primeval
Mayor. The consolation stakes amounted
to 250 sovs.
AUSTRALIA COWS THE CUDDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A month or two ago Miss Ethel Warwick spoke of
Australia as the visiting Mummers’ Paradise —the
country where any theatrical performer of the least
foreign note was raised to a giddy height of im-
portance off the stage. Last week Harry Lauder
said to a Sydney interviewer: “In no place I have
been have I had such a reception. I never thought I
could have a better one than in the United States on
my last trip, but this reception, to use a Scotch
phrase, ‘cows the cuddy.’ This phrase is equivalent
to ‘take the cake.’ ”
Of all the places on this earth
Where mortals dote on mummers
(Not local ones of native birth,
But glorified new-comers),
Of all the countries dry and hot,
Or beastly cold and floody.
Of all the lot, the whole darned lot
Australia cows the cuddy.
By who love a lord
With ardor ill-requited,
In England actors are adored —-
Especially when knighted ;
But none get worship from the crowd
Like kings and dooks blue-bloody.
At doin’ of the ac-tor proud
Australia cows the cuddy.
America goes mad at times ;
And there the dollarcd classes
Bow down to him who warbles rhymes
Concerning Hieland Lassies.
Here, ere he shows his pictured phiz
With nose and cheeks made ruddy,
A public idol Lauder is.
Australia cows the cuddy.
O Lord of Lauder! At Th> ftcc
I offer this petition:
Grant me a first-night guinea seat
In any good position,
And though I have to tramp ten mile
And Melbourne streets be muddy,
I will be there to see him smile,
Remarking to himself the while:
“Australia cows the cuddy—
C. u. d. d. y. cuddy.”
victoria.
O.K.


TWO ESSENTIALS to a PLEASANT EASTER,
Essential No-1 ■
The “Leatherfiend” Suit Case, made of an excep-
tionally strong composition, being so similar to
leather that the difference can hardly be
detected. Also, being much lighter is a decided
advantage over the ordinary leather case.
Lengths 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
Prices .... 17/6 19/6 32/6 25/6
THESE GOODS SENT CARRIAGE PAID
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Of sound and reliable con-
struction, the D.J. Vacuum
Flask possesses all the desir-
able advantages of those cost-
ing a guinea or more. Never
before have we been enabled
to offer such extraordinary
value. Any boiling hot liquid
placed in one of these flasks
will remain hot for 24 hours,
whilst any cold liquid will
remain icy cold for three days
or longer. The D.J. Flask
is therefore of equal conveni-
ence in hot or cold weather.
The body is made of brown
metal, with aluminium drink-
ing cup. Will hold one pint.
Price 2/11
We accept no responsibility
for Breakage of Flasks in tran-
sit, or after receipt of same,
except when delivered by our
own Carters. Greatest care is
exercised in packing, to ensure
against any damage or break-
age.
L' scntial No. 2
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp.
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
Concentrated
Power -
Pratt’s
Motor
Spirit
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
Some two months ago an unappreciative
female wrote to The Bulletin about what
she called the “Commonwealth offices in
Vancouver (8.C.).” She said the offices
were small and contemptible ; that they were
tucked away in a dingy street; that they
were gone at the knees and afflicted with
blind staggers, w'hitlows, the thrush and
worms. If she didn’t explicitly mention all
these things she implied them. And now one
B. J. Hansen, who subscribes himself “Agent
in Victoria for the British Government,”
writes in rebuttal. He says, with a certain
manly and understandable pride : —■
My office contains 15ft. of plate-glass windows,
fronting on a very busy street, and opposite the
largest office and business block in this city, and is
no more like a “Home of Indigent Piano-tuners”
than —well, anyhow it isn’t like that sort of home.
Every week the windows are re-dressed with the
latest views, taken from the various weekly papers of
Australia, and it is no uncommon sight to see 15 or
20 people inspecting the pictures at one time.
So let the malignant female assailant of an
inoffensive and attractive-looking office guard
herself as best she may, for Mr. Hansen’s
defence is hereby flung in her teeth. If
they are real teeth, and strong ones, she will
probably escape unharmed; in the other
event she may elude the trial by explaining
miserably that she didn’t mean to attack
Mr. Hansen’s office, but some other institu-
tion. Anyhow, it is up to her. She has
brought the situation on her own teeth.
The value of death-bed depositions, with
which the police are apt to convict the
prisoner, is somewhat discounted by the
case tried at Sydney Central Criminal Court
last week. Old man Greenaway was charged
with having feloniously slain young man
McCauley. The evidence showed conclu-
sively that the deceased had chased the
prisoner when the latter was going to lodge
a complaint with the police. Deceased had
threatened to “kill the old ” if he went
for the police, and when he caught him they
struggled. Greenaway drew a revolver and
shot the young blackguard. Did the young
blackguard in his dying depositions tell the
truth and admit that he bad scared the old
man into his reasonable act of self-defence?
On the contrary, he stated —according to the
police report, that “he did not molest Green-
away or threaten him.” In short his un-
truthful dying deposition would have made
things unpleasant for the prisoner had there
been no eye-witnesses and ear-witnesses for
the defence.
A curious set of circumstances surrounded
the death of a forlorn woman named Kitty
Ryan, of Melbourne. She was found on a
Friday, which is a day of ill-omen, lying on
the floor of a deserted and condemned house
in Carlton. The Town-Planning Associa-
tion is free to remark, here that all con-
demned houses should be immediately pulled
down. She said in a dazed sort of way that
she had been in a convent for 13 years. The
figure 13 is a numeral of ill-omen, and the
mention of the convent will naturally make
Belfast rage and speak bitterly regarding
the Errors of Rome. Also it will make
Londonderry get on its ear. On Saturday
Kitty Ryan was found dead. The post-
mortem revealed that there was nothing in
her stomach save alcohol. A long disserta-
tion re the Curse of Drink comes in here
unite naturally. One way and another Kitty
Ryan seems to have had little luck, and
apparently her stomach had even less. The
man who first discovered her was Eli Mills.
Some people fancy that Old Testament
names are not fortunate.
THOSE THE GODS LOVE DIE YOUNG.
THE PROFESSOR : “ This is the shill of the kangasaurus, ladies and-gentlemen. It is a
young one, and had not reached its full growth when it perished."
TOM (affected): “Poor little beggar!"
CEREMONY.
GINGER: “Wot? 'As
Benjer took on
Queenie?”
BOSKO : “Na! Why,
'e ain’t even treated
'er to a go o' fish
an' chips yet."
“Albatross”: There has always been a
vague suspicion in the bosoms of deep-sea
mariners that the insurance cos. keep a
“black list” of those masters who have
offended them in any way. The action which
Maurice Festu won last week in Sydney
went a good way to prove it. Festu was
chief officer of a steamer chartered by the
Government for Papua, and during his
service he did some salvage work. When
the charter was up, Festu’s owners proposed
appointing him master of the ship; but in
the meantime Festu had claimed salvage
from the insurance company concerned, and
had rightly got it. Correspondence passed
between the co. and the owners, in the course
of which the former mentioned that if Festu
were appointed master the co. would not re-
insure. Festu brought a libel action against
the co. The latter alleged that he
had left his ship in a bad position
when he went away to do salvage work,
thereby committing a breach of the policy.
The Court found that the real explanation
of the co.’s hostility was that Festu had
claimed salvage. It was proved (much to
the astonishment of the insurance agent)
that Festu was not master at the time the
salvage was done, and therefore could not be
held responsible, even if the ship had been
left in a bad position. A captain can’t leave
his ship in any position if he isn’t captain.
Verdict for plaintiff; damages, £750.
A very busy lady, one Edith A. Water-
worth, has been making trouble in Tasmania
by agitating wildly for the reprieve of one
Belbin. The 'Executive retorted with the
statement that it held Belbin’s confession
and that the confession had strength-
ened its decision to hang him. Then
Edith A. Waterworth, feeling that she
should apologise like a gentleman, did
so in letters to the Tas. press, and
immediately thereafter proved that she was a
lady by making wild statements about Mere
Man. Says Edith :
One of my correspondents hints that I think lightly
of Belbin’s attempted crime (rape). Let me say here
that I regard it as the most serious crime that can
be committed —the one which I should never give a
man a second opportunity to commit. Once having
been guilty of such an offence, a man has, in my
opinion, proved himself unfit to be at large. And if
we women do not rouse ourselves with regard to the
inadequate sentences which these men are receiving,
Tasmania will be pointed at with scorn by the whole
of Australia. I am convinced that only women will
do this work —most men have a perfectly incompre-
hensible callousness to the thing.
It was men who made the law for the hang-
ing of Belbin, also it was men who built the
gallows. Therefore it seems rather rough
that a lady should rush at them with her
mouth open and charge them with indiffer-
ence to the offence. What more could they
do to Belbin than hang him? Surely nobody
wanted him boiled !
From “ Jeames”: The ignorance of the
London press in regard to Australia is truly
abysmal. Consider this from the London
Mail (28/2/T4)
Lord Denman, the evicted of Melbourne, was a
bad failure' from the first.
In point of fact, the evicted of Sydney has
been the most successful Governor-General
since Lord Tennyson’s day, or earlier. You
estimate these things by negatives. Denman
has neither irritated nor scandalised any
one section of society. So flagrantly blame-
less has his private life been that the local
gossip-mongers have not had the neeessary
faint shadow of an excuse to lie about his
moral character. No one has even accused
him of drunkenness. This is a unique ex-
perience in the case of a Governor who has
THE SOP.
The increase of the expenses of all the Govern-
mental concerns was given by Mr. Hoyle as a reason
why taxation should be increased. —S. M. HERALD.
LENDOOFSTEIN : “Of course, it's quite under-
stood, Mr. Holman, that Eve had no hand
in this matter."
been in the country three years. He has not
exasperated either political party. Liberals
and Laborites are equally friendly to him.
His sporting tastes have not been sufficiently
marked to depress Wowserdom, and they
are viewed with approval by the rest of the
community. No one knows for certain if
his sympathies lie in the direction of Orange-
ism or Ilibernianism, which signifies that he
is profoundly diplomatic or is blankly in-
different to both disturbances. Add to these
things the fact that he has travelled- and
speechified conscientiously, despite the han-
dicap of rotten health, and you get a very
admirable record.
QUICK MARCH!-IF YOU FEEL THAT WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Another account of the War Office interview states
that when Brigadier-General Gough and Colonels
Mac Ewan and Parker reached the War Office, stormy
scenes occurred. General Sir John French criticised
their action, and said it merited the severest pun-
ishment. The intervention of Lord Roberts, how-
ever, restored a better feeling. Finally, the officers
received a document containing many paragraphs
written in legal phraseology, setting out the con-
ditions under which they must serve in Ulster.
Brigadier-General Gough replied: “We are plain sol-
diers. We do not understand all these legal terms.
We want things put plainly.”
Brigadier-General Gough then read the following
from a sheet of paper: “Do we understand we are
not to be asked to bear arms against Ulster or to
enforce the present Home Rule Bill, and can we
return ar.d tell the officers so?”
After further argument, Sir John French wrote
on Brigadier-General Gough’s paper, “Yes, this is
so,” and signed it. Three copies of the document
were made and deposited with solicitors.
—Daily paper.
The Old Guard never argued with Napoleon Bona-
parte,
And they never brought a lawyer on the scene;
They were generally ready when the march was due
to start,
And they did what they were told like a machine.
While Napoleon did the thinking, they attended to
the job,
And it worked out to perfection, so they say.
But these modern British fighters are not like those
Old Guard blighters,
So the orders come out something in this lay:
“Quick March ! —if you feel that way ;
Or would you prefer to halt?
I heard some Johnny say that we were to fight
to-day,
But, damn it all, it’s not my fault!
Right Wheel! (Do you mind?) Oh, thanks!
One moment! (His pipe he is lighting!)
Now will verbal instructions satisfy the ranks,
Or would you prefer the thing in writing?”
God of our fathers, now mislaid,
Lord of our indrawn battle-line,
Who cannot guard our routes of trade,
Incline Thine ear and hear our whine.
Why isn’t Kipling shouting yet,
Lest we forget—-lest we forget?
The battle-line has got the blight;
No longer does it square its jaw
And surge to prop the people’s right,
But squeals in camp for sops of Law.
Law-hunting colonels rush and fret,
And oaths, with other things, forget.
O’er vulgar hosts that never know
The influence of social squaws,
We do not feel inclined to blow,
Since we with lawyers dodge the wars.
Our pride of place, O God, we yield,
And haggle on the battlefields.
N.S.W.
GENERAL COSTS, K.C.


Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
o
(Ree d )
“Silustria”
(Regd.)
Flannel
is guaranteed by the manu-
facturers to be absolutely
unshrinkable and fast color
and to retain the same softness
after repeated washing.
[3
A Good .Winter Boot
Thoroughly Waterproof.
The boot illustrated is unique in its weather-resisting quali-
ties.
It is a stout, Chrome-tanned Colt Hide Boot, in the
“shooting or golf” Derby laced style. It has high legs, stout
leather lining, extra wide welts, and heavy, double rope-
stitched soles.
Sheet rubber packed between the soles absolutely resists
moisture. An ideal boot for rough country service.
Sizes 5-10. Fittings D. E.
In black or tan,
275. 6d.
Please state size when ordering. New catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
fdhd
275. 6d.
“G.D.”: The Inter-State Commission has
hired a private dwelling from Mrs. W. 11.
Croker, wife of the solicitor and Y.R.C.
committee man. It was built by the late
Joe Thompson, the bookmaker, who was
known as the Leviathan, and who went to
England 20 years ago, and successfully levi-
athaned there. Joseph called his abode Don
Juan House, after an outsider with which
he won the Melbourne Cup. His partner in
property investments was the late Sam Gil-
lott, then a highly successful police-court
practitioner. Gillott and Croker were after-
wards partners at law, and I suppose that
is how the house where the old Behemoth
hung out drifted into Mrs. Croker’s hands.
Tht fact that Croker used to be accused of
wearing a corset is thrown into this tale by
way of a sideline.
SYMPATHY.
HAWKER: “Good day, Missus!”
OLO MAID (scornftdly): “I'm not ‘ Missus,' I'm ‘Miss.’”
HAWKER: “Ah! I'm sorry.”
TIER SYMPATHY.
“ Gosh , I was nearly down that time!”
“ Why didn't you? They'd have thought it was a new figure."
“Y.Z.” : I and about 90 persons of minor
importance witnessed an impromptu tragi-
comedy in a Melbourne city restaurant at
4.15 on 23/3/’l4. The customers were busy
with their own gossip and afternoon tea,
when affairs and events at a central table
attracted general attention. He might have
been 45; she need not have been more than
28. They had begun on their refreshments
in great apparent goodwill, but now they
were neglecting tea and pastry, and exchang-
ing low, passionate language at short range.
Suddenly she seized the hot-water jug, and
slopped its contents over his head. Then
she clutched the teapot, and maliciously
poured the remainder of the scalding Cey-
lon on the wretched man’s peeling occiput.
She delivered it with malignant deliberation.
Then she tore a ring from her finger, and
threw it in his eye. “I wouldn’t marry you
now if you had a million”; she said, and
flamed out of the place. Most of the guests
seemed sorry for the scalded object, but I
offer him cordial congratulations.
And so the Cook Ministry is not going to
bring back the Governor-General to Sydney
after all. Liberalism, in N. S. Wales, made
a lot of capital during last Federal elections,
out of Fisher’s alleged complicity with Hol-
man in the matter of the “eviction.” It
was urged by persons like Henley, M.L.A. —
the weird little legislator who makes up for
his dearth of aspirates by- an ungoverned
wealth of Jingoism:—that all the Common-
wealth required to do, if it wished to vin-
dicate Australia’s “loyalty,” was to return
Cook to office. Cook didn’t deny the im-
peachment. Far from it. As clearly as
politician could he caused it to be under-
stood that “the credit of Australia,” so far
as rehousing the G.-G. in Sydney was con-
cerned, might safely be committed to his
hands. Needless to say the whole thing was a
confidence trick. Once the State Government
had moved definitely in the matter of ousting
the Governor-General, any Federal Govern-
ment, whether Labor or Liberal, was to all
intents and purposes powerless. It is de-
barred by the Constitution from discriminat-
ing between the States. Had the Fisher or
the Cook or any other Administration paid
the rental that the N. S. Wales Treasury
demanded for the use of the Macquarie-
street edifice, every other State would have
had to be supplied with a similar mansion
at a similar figure. Many wooden-headed
Imperialists voted for Cook and his nominees
last year, under the delusion that by so
doing they were “helping to bring Lord
Denman back to Sydney.’’ They have only
just learned, from the daily press, that the
prospects in this line were hopeless from the
jump. How the gaols would fill up, to be
sure, if politicians could be indicted crimin-
ally for obtaining votes under false pre-
tences.
This (from Melbourne) is printed for the
general reason that it is the most wonderful
contribution of the "week: —
Edifying- Anniversary just honoured of the West
Melbourne Ladies’ Lost Dogs’ Home. Vote of thanks
to a lady doctor who tied up the wounded leg of a
poor lost mongrel. What a contrast to the Myrmidons
and Buccaneers of Hinnissy! Dooley is coming to
consult with Hinnissy next Chusda. Well, the said
Myrmidons and Buccaneers sally forth with the Dog
Cart, a prison on four wheels, drawn by a horse as
big and fat as Bumble. John Ketch drives, and
Nosey Nobbs sits beside him with a thong at the end
of a stick. With this they snavel poor dogs, and
the travelling gaol passes the Dogs’ Home with
shrieks, which cause piercing agony to the benevolent
ladies. The van tumbles out its contents (Bishop
Mercer, of Tasmania, says Dogs have souls) at the
Dogs’ Morgue, near the other one, by the Yarra.
There a Dog Auction is held. There is a big- tank
alongside the Auctioneer, He says “Upset Price, Five
Shillings per Dog” The Assistant holds up one by
the scruff of the neck. “Hotv Much?—No Bid? —
Put him in the tank, John!” Splosh!” Next.”
* * * *
These optimistic cranks who object to com-
pulsory training for defence are a brilliantly
consistent crowd. For instance, the Maori-
land Social Democratic party (which is a
branch of the Red Federation of Labor) has
published its platform in M.L. Worker.
One of the planks is'as follows: “Arbitra-
tion of all international disputes.” In the
same issue of the paper (which is the official
mouthpiece of the Social Democratic Party)
a leading article has this to say of arbitra-
tion of industrial disputes :
We venture to predict that just as soon as the
bulk of the workers are convinced that the im-
provement of their condition is well nigh hopeless,
they will strike in spite of the law and the threat-
ened penalties. .. .Though out-and-out opponents of
the Arbitration Court, if it seemed necessary to
accept it for the time being in order to preserve
our existence as organisations, we would accept it
and use it to the best that it could be put to until
such time as we have either the industrial solidar-
ity to break it or the political power to amend it.
A delightful guarantee of bona fides that is
to accompany a scheme for arbitration in
international disputes! Still, it’s not so
remarkable as the S.D.P.’s unblushing mari-
ne" of putting its tongue in its cheek.
* * * *
The s.s. Dunmore, of Sydney, provides, in
all likelihood, for its age and tonnage a
world’s record as regards maritime ill-luck.
It is not one of those vast rushing ocean
greyhounds which tear across berg-infested
oceans. It is a cautious, gradual little craft
with a hump like a packing-case in the
vicinity of the screw, ancb a space which re-
sembles a suburban back yard in the bow
for the storage of gravel. When it “goes
outside” it hugs the land carefully, so that
the crew may swim ashore in case of dis-
aster. It had its first serious accident in
1902, when it ran into the Kelloe, off
Botany. In 1909 it charged a boatful of
British bluejackets off Mrs. Macquarie’s
Chair. Most of them were drowned, and
the Dunmore proceeded to its berth in Wool-
loomooloo Bay in a depressed frame of mind.
The German skipper was leapt upon
heavily and fired out of his job, though he
had followed the strict rule of the road in
the proceedings which led up to the colli-
sion. Last week the wretched steamer hurled
itself against another vessel between Sydney
Heads, and at time of writing it is lying in
a semi-ruined state on an adjacent beach.
The owners, optimistic to the last, talk of
salvaging it. To this paper, in view of the
shortage in our population, it would seem
a more broadly patriotic act if the owners
dynamited their ill-omened craft. Possibly
there is a dead Chinaman among its timbers
somewhere.
“0.K.”: There is a cynical candor in
Lady Denman’s way of working Melbourne
snobocracy for all it is worth to any scheme
of money-raising that she takes in hand. Her
loan exhibition of antiques in aid of certain
funds is a lovely instance of her faith in
the attraction which the vice-regal aroma
has for people who would rank with the
Naicest. This Exhibition of furniture, silver
and china—only moderately old and mostly
uninteresting—has been arranged in the ball-
room at Government House. Lady D.
dangled before the eyes of Gentility at large
the chance of going to Guvment House. But
she didn’t stop at that. She offered two
chances—a 2s. 6d. chance of going on the
first four days when the company would be
select- — i.e., half-crowny, and a chance of
seeing the same exhibition in the same vice-
regal domicile for a bob. This was to re-
main open for a week, and it is still avail-
able. All things considered, the wonder is
that Lady D. didn’t fix the price at a guinea
for the first day, with the proviso that she
would personally take the tickets and shake
hands with everybody who came along at the
fancy price. She evidently is alive to the
financial possibilities of snobbery. I predict
that before her time is up she will open a
bazaar in aid of distressed flunkeys and sell
handshakes at a guinea a time.
THE COMBINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The members of the Victorian Bar assembled in
the Banco Court yesterday to bid farewell to the
Chief Justice, who is leaving to-day on a trip to
Europe The Chief Justice said that....when he
returned he would be glad to find a large fund of
litigation, so that the barristers and solicitors of
the court might reap the advantages which some-
times followed from such a state of things.
—Melbourne Age.
His Nibs upon the bench unbent
And dropped his stern, judicial frown,
And, as the last grim wrinkle went,
Upon the beaming Bar looked down,
And amiably regarded what
Appeared (just then) a likely lot.
“Bless you, my boys!” he said, and grinned.
“Good luck to you, and send you squads
Of clients ready to be skinned
Alive or dead—and may the gods
Soon cut the silly capers short
Of those who square things out of Court!
“May six-and-eightpence constantly
In my long absence comfort you,
And stay your souls ; and may there be
(So that all sort of Costs accrue
For you in thankfulness to whack)
No peace on earth till I get back !
“From Widows’ sighs and Orphans’ tears
May you receive due nutriment,
And ready oof for all the beers
You want, like heavenly manna sent!
May high-priced hope deferred and new,
Expensive strife mean cash to ‘blew.’ ”
And when a far, faint citizen
Spoke from behind his humble hat:
“But Justice, what of her?—why, then
His Nibs knew how to deal with that.
“Justice?” (he smiled in a large, bland way)
“Justice is off for a holiday! ’
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
STRAY BARONETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A new roll of baronets has been put together in
England. Inquiries in connection with this work
have brought to light the fact that there are several
English baronets in Australia who decline to assume
their titles because of the humble occupations in
which they are engaged. —English news item.
Australians, a warning take—
Be more respectful to the mean.
The wretch who comes before you wake
And bears away your boots to clean
Has knees too large and shins too thin,
He lacks the polish that he gives,
His face betrays a humble grin,
On kitchen smells they say he lives,
But you can’t bet
He’s not an English baronet!
The billiard marker too, is kinked ;
His face is like a sad bull pup ;
He’s generally two parts inked,
His trousers always trip him up.
The waiter has a pallid look
Like things that lurk beneath a stone,
A furtive trick he has to hook
The vagrant sixpence by the bone.
These run in sets—
They’re often English baronets.
The man who leans upon a post
With one foot bundled in a bag,
Resembling an unshaven ghost
That should be lumbered on the vag.,
Is holding out a shaking hand
For “thripny” bits. His title true
He can’t assume, for in this land
Of democrats if people knew
They’d have him set.
He is an English baronet!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


ASK A,
_£OJ.iCEN\A»>t
''tjs'V 4
Beware
have
a
care.
“I have always held the view that Elective Min-
istries would -cure many of the evils to which party
government gives rise,” said Mr. W. A. Watt, the
Premier. Election of Ministries, Mr. Watt added,
involved a change of attitude on the part of the
community in respect to many problems of govern-
ment. That change would have to be gradual, and
the result of education.—News item
m »nd
VO UR
E.YE
KEEP
To
The i
RIGHT
I tt'V
Driver^oasee
mw dev wVi*T* - . fl \r
Jjtace is let"rvje See youwrougV'r
Reference was made to the dan-
gers that beset girls who travel
alone, and to the White Slave
traffic, by a deputation from the
Young Women’s Christian Asso-
ciation and the Girls’ Friendly
Society, which waited upon the
Minister for Railways (Mr. Mac-
kinnon) on Saturday, with a re-
quest that permission be given for
the hanging at railway stations of
notices, warning girls against
strange men and women.
Murray ’ C*r«av+" tWasyens !
you be«o \
Elective Ministry j
VowlJ 1 C Oroe. \r> \ ’
. Premier WvH’' H fc DowY be atanrvj** -
\\ \<>\\A ifori faorzA t lectf/e A\io»S*ri«s inif/e din,
11
is tribe"
ta
\ J\fev
1
•‘A whole crop of seri-
ous questions” has
been raised, the Prime
Minister stated at the
A.N.A. dinner at Wan-
ftaratta, on Wednesday,
“by the statement of
Mr. Winston Churchill,
First Lord of the Ad-
miralty. that the safety
of the Pacific was se-
cured by the treaty be-
tween Great Britain
and. Japan.”
That this meeting of wholesale warehouse em-
ployees protests against the action of the Trades
Hall, or any affiliated union, interfering in matters |
concerning the industrial and economical position'
of the aboive employees, and considers that the
.appointment of a wages board is Unnecessary.
(Res<>|,rtfo« in M«H>
rerenfty )
l«Je|.enclcn-r-S 0^ooa^ AsS ‘ stA,f,t ' ( + °
Employee) ' | you dov»t^i^inHs
| Would associate wi# ifioj® \°'* r
Tr*U S H*U
endeavour 1o a,n increase of
you, Sir
Bull • Je'f'me intrbduce
Console lW e J*F>p "ftell be on
duly 'for 'the future. In?
off ifte beat+Ttnyself.
There are several
baronets in Austra-
lia who have not
assumed their titles
because they are fol-
lowing humble occu-
pations.
—News item.
Sho|> For *tfc/ T \\
v/e+" I V
C*fy mommend \
wafer]* roo? Ulster — '
ipc** ra.'Tnot'jj- Vbpnr, ifs",^.
J>onT 'nfar word i© me.
W« h\d enough ifafee^dy.
(fe H r ? Tootle I
wo r Kin' s*" itT **
A MEDLEY PROM MELBOURNE.


The train. Outside view.
He was once a teetotaller and a man of
standing in the community, but he fell into
bad habits and a gradual state of moral,
decay between Newtown and Sydney.
Interior of the preaching car: “ Dear
Brethren, my text to-day will be found
in Isaiah, 24th chapter, verse 22: ‘And
they shall be gathered together as prisoners
are gathered in the pit,, and,... .. . and
after many days shall they be visited.
The Judge, coming in from Strath-*
field, held court on the train to save
time. The case presented no re-
deeming features, and the appeal
having failed the offender was exe-
cuted at Stanmore.
Fatt, M.L.A., has learned that the whole Govern*
ment majority is on the train that is bailed up out-
side Macdonaldtown. He proposes to get in early,,
carry a vote of censure and form a new Ministry,.
Morning school is held on board test
the children of the£>mmunity should
fall into utter Igfwrance.
A VISION OF SYDNEY SUBURBAN TRAINS.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NONMILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINSCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
DURABILITY,
NABOB BOOT PASTE:,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourneiand Sydney.
is the best washing preparation lor
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
r
l </,< /
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The youngest Pankhurst girl, daughter of the
Pankhurst of England, who has come to Austra-
lia to discourse on the need for the woman
suffrage which this country has got already.
One of the Six Hatters appeared—or,
rather, didn’t appear—in the Sydney Divorce
Court one recent day, when, in the case of
Pollitt v. Pollitt, the wife, or hatteress, sued
for divorce on the plea of desertion. The
Six Hatters were imported to this country
in 1902; and, according to the statements of
some indignant Tories, they were refused a
landing and put in gaol, and taken out to
sea, and heavily fined, and drowned. Pollitt
married in 1904, at which date he was still
hatting hereabouts.
The a’Becketts of Victoria, one of whom
is to act as C.J. in the absence of John
Madden, are inveterate inkslingers. Wil-
liam started two periodicals and wrote
stacks of books and pamphlets. He was
also guilty of a lot of verse and of much
religious matter. A horrible record, take it
for all in all. His brother, T. T., used to
write to the London newspapers on every
conceivable subject. He furthermore con-
tributed to that city’s Punch. T. T. was a
particularly rabid Tory. He championed the
principle of State aid to religion and de-
spised the Jews. Also he was furiously hos-
tile to the secrecy of the ballot. The new
C.J. is his son. One of T. T.’s brothers was
on the staff of London Punch —which may
account in part for the former’s efforts in
that journal. Gilbert was his name, and he
had two sons, both of whom- are abundant
penmen.
Passed over at Christchurch (M.L.) re-
cently, E. C. Ashby, one of the best-known
business men of that horizontal city. He
started in business as a hardware merchant
in 1864, and kept at it most of his spare
time. He was sport mad, especially as re-
gards swimming and rowing. He was a
champion bowler, an energetic volunteer,
keen on military training, and had a
strange liking for fire-brigade work. 11l
fact, he was foreman of the local brigade in
the early days and helped to fight the big
fire that nearly wiped Lyttelton out in
1870. He was mixed up in practically every-
thing except matrimony, having managed to
dodge that for 61 years.
“O.K.” —his speak :
Wyndham Heathcote (late Anglican parson at
Bundaberg, Q.) is now preaching in Melbourne On
the Unitarian ticket. Last Week he lectured at thy
Athenaeum Hall bn “Why tie Left the Church;’’
Heathcote has a good strong Voice; and his earnest-
ness makes him an interesting exponent of orthodox
agnosticism; But to a natural unbeliever, who has
heeded no Conversion, there is pathos in the earnest-
hess of a converted parson. He is as a child repeating
the AB C of unbelief to an educated elder. He calls
attention to eternal truths as though he were an-
nouncing new facts. His present state of enlighten-
ment can merely serve to shock the foolish whilst
making thoughtful non-believers wonder why he
ever had the old dogmas on his mind. Anglican
Church doctrine, to give it its due, makes hardly
a pretence of being sincere. It doesn’t deceive
even a “Christian parented’’ boy who happens to
have been born with a bump of causality. Children
suffering from hereditary godlessness can see the
humor of the Athanasian Creed at a glance. And
when a thoughtful old agnostic hears ex-parsons
growing excited over their new sense of the aged
absurdities, well, he thinks of the millions of uncon-
verted and wonders how many centuries have got to
come and go ere the Kingdom of Truth will be
established on earth.
“Iron Pot,” concerning a brisk citizen: —
Giblin, M.H.A., of Tasmania, was referred to in
a recent Bulletin as the bulkiest of politicians, but
in mere justice it should be made clear that his is
no Greid, or Pie Commissioner, variety of bulkiness.
Giblin possesses some 15st. of hard bone and muscle,
which has served him well in a variegated career.
He is Tasmanian born, and a son of Judge Giblin,
a political light of years agone. He suddenly woke
up towards the finish of a somewhat uneventful school
career and collected the Tasmanian scholarship, with
its attached £2OO a year. This took him to Cam-
bridge, where the development of an awe-inspiring
reputation as a mathematician was compensated for
by his international standard of football. A bril-
liant degree in mathematics threatened him with a
lifetime of port and scandal at the dons’ table, but
he succeeded in dodging this by taking up a timber-
getting business in British Columbia with another
brilliant University man. Timber proving slow he
went to Alaska to see a little life, after a voyage or
two before the mast as a sort of holiday interlude.
His marine experiences eventually secured him a job
as a pilot on the Yukon River, where his habit of
pushing large craft off frozen sandbanks with his
chest caused him to be sought after in a very strenu-
ous profession. An exploring expedition towards the
Arctic Circle, and sundry vivid mining experiences
filled up any idle time. After working his passage
back to Tasmania and shouting vainly in the ear of
that somnolent islet he was impelled to arise and
depart for the Solomon Islands. There he did some-
thing with a rubber plantation for a while. Happen-
ing into England again in his casual way, he ran a
jiu-jitsu school, and collaborated in a book
on the gentle art. Some more able-bodied ex-
periences brought him back to Tasmania, and the
idea of waking up that afflicted State appears to have
appealed to him as the sort of labor of Hercules
which would be worth trying. After various inter-
ludes as a teacher of mathematics, a poultry and
fruit farmer and an officer of the Australian Intelli-
gence Corps he became Labor member of the Tas.
Assembly. So he is again shouting in the ear of the
small place which is partly dead.
N. S. W. MINIS TER
ESTELL wonders where
the next bunch of trouble
is coming from.
THEODOR SCHARF, the young Melbourne
artist. (He attended his shows in the
elegantly cut uniform of the cadets.)
The Sturt statue movement drags along
slowly in Adelaide, but the promoters are
going to make a special effort to finish it up.
They have £550 at present, and the S.A. Gov-
ernment has promised to double that and any
more that can be collected. A site is re-
served for the image close to the G.P.0., to
match that «.f McDouall Stuart, across the
road.
“Adelaide”: The late John Darling was
reputed a hard man. He was not that, but
he was a solid one. Like his brother Joe,
who was one of the very best captains an
Australian XI has ever had. He gave
away no points, but then he took none, un-
less they were legitimately his. In fact, he
played his game, politics or mining or com-
merce, in strict, not to say grim, accordance
with the rules. It is not a habit which
makes for popularity, but it makes for re-
spect.
Arthur Lynch, M.P., who fought for the
Boers against Britain, and announced, re-
cently, that he was now prepared to fight for
Britain against anyone—on account of
its generous treatment of Ireland —has. just
gained the Diplome de VEcole Superieur
d’Electricite. This is the highest
diploma given in France for elec-
trical engineering. Amongst other
tests Lynch had to work out a com-
plete project for installation in a
dirigible balloon, of a system of
wireless telegraphy, with sketches,
calculations and every detail set
forth. He is publishing a French
novel —by name “Poppy Meadows”
—this year, and he could have
written it with almost equal ease
in German, Spanish or Italian, had
he been so minded. He took his
C.E. and M.A. degrees at Mel-
bourne University, and his medical
degrees in London. Altogether he is a busy
sort of citizen.
THE TRAITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Washington, Wednesday.—Senator Chamberlain
made a vigorous attack on Mr. Carnegie during a
heated argument in the Senate with Senator Jones,
oyer President Wilson’s attitude on the Tolls Exemp-
tion Bill. He asserted that if Mr. Carnegie, who
continually espoused Great Britain’s cause, were a
citizen of any other nation he would be charged
with treason. Mr. Carnegie, he added, had never
hesitated to spend his millions to inculcate a recipro-
cal feeling among the people of the United States
for Great Britain.— Cable.
At the dear old Homestead Ironworks, in the good
old Pittsburg days,
The Yankee, Andrew Carnegie, set all the land
ablaze;
In the sacred name of Peezness, Andrew gave his
workers fits—
And the mighty Yankee nation classed him biggest
of its ITS!
Oh, prodigious were his battlings,
With barbed wire, and with Gatlings,
When the Yankee, Andrew Carnegie, knocked Labor
all to bits !
But he crossed the sea, did Andrew —Ay ! he sailed
across the foam,
And went back to Bonnie Scotland, to his boyhood’s
well-loved home,
With a mighty pile of dollars for remembrance of
the West,
And the Steel Trust, and old Pittsburg, and the Iron-
works he loved best!
And he said: “Now, no more warfare!
Let me see how Britain’s poor fare” —
As a Scotsman, Andrew Carnegie nursed kind
thoughts in his breast.
He bought old Skibo Castle, and Philanthropy em-
braced ;
And he told the world if he died rich he’d also die
disgraced ;
And he pondered Mankind’s greatest need —as Solon
did in Greece—
And wept to see Humanity still prone to rob and
fleece!
He rejected food and clothing—
On free drinks he looked with loathing—
And decided what the world lacked most were—
Libraries and Peace!
He paralysed the careful Scots who lived near Skibo's
towers,
By giving tons of cash away and signing cheques
for hours !
The kilted folk would tap their heads and swear
that he was fey —•
But each night’s dividends outstripped his givings
for the day!
He built the Hague Peace Palace,
And filled the towns and valleys
With libraries and institutes where no one had to
pay.
The last, and grandest, of the works with which his
hands were full
Was trying to get Uncle Sam real fond of Uncle
Bull!
Old Uncle Sam remarked: “I guess John Bull’s a
stuck-up guy! ”
While Uncle Bull observed that Uncle Sam was
low and sly!
Also a mongrel nation,
Prone to exaggeration—
In short, the Uncles disagreed, and will do till they
die!
Of all the dollars Andrew gave for any aim or
cause,
The cash he spent to bind these two has earned the
most applause !
The libraries he slung around were futile- —more or
less;
ARTHUR FEEZ, K.C., of Brisbane (Q.).
The Home of Peace has proved a fraud, to curse and
not to bless;
But there was something splendid,
And much to be commended
In efforts which have only landed Andrew in a mess!
He’s safe in Skibo Castle, Scottish Andrew with his
“pile”—
But oh! the Yankee Carnegie is “getting it” in
style!
Wild-eyed Amurkan Jingoes, who once hailed this
man as “great,”
Are yelling for his Yankee-Scottish head upon a
plate!
They swear he is a prater,
And dub him rogue and traitor—
But, if I’d half his bank account , I’d gladly share his
fate !
N.S.W.
RETRONIOUS EARBITER.


c/iepr/oif jno/i uo no/i i/jim ypnoud d%QL
UJJVVJUX TT w
OjOVtiOJr
-V2
aO
=QOWuit
•>ovgo
\Tt
xt
B
o\
■
0^
$5
■<or
V.<f
ss
5J9-ba
Pipe* OF QUALITY
*•4 Vi
400
LMN
LMN
ery
pipe Guarant,
ee (


iWiass Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lecUs have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BUCYRUvS CO. Milwaukee
•Steam Shovels, Drag' Line Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLIAM (Bb COMPANY LIMITED,
' - ■Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane;
Pertb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Toße-
T Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
June, 1909.. . _ _ £11416
Dec., 1909.. £7,942 10 p.c. = £2500 £5,442 52)74
June, 1910.. 7,033 10 ~ „ 2571 4,462 1,512
Reserves
Dec., 1910.. 10,600 10 ~ ~ 2686 7,914 6,402
r- * ,
Pref.
6. p.c. Ord.
June, 1911.. 10,432 £260 10 p.c. = 2745 7,427 13.829
Dec., 1911.. 13,065 533 10 „ ~ 2765 9,767 23,596
June, 1912.. 11,112 Div. and Bonus 3896 7,2i6 30,812
Dec., 1912.. 13,317 ~ ~ 3719 9,598 40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 .. 28,017
June, 1913.. 11,495 600 10 p.c. = 3297 7,598 35,615
Dec., 1913.. 16,982 600 12J ~ „ 5550 10,832 46,447
lliis co. was formed in 1907 to take over the time-
payment furniture business of R. H. Gordon and G.
D. Wise, both of whom are on the present director-
ate. But the public didn’t become interested in
it till 1909, when the capital was £50,000. Busi-
ness has boomed so much since then that the paid
capital has been increased to £99,196. As will be
seen by the table, the time-payment business can be
made wonderfully profitable, provided it is in good
hands. But under careless management a co. can
become a total wreck in no time. This table will
show how much room there is for bad debts:—
Property, Stock, Sundry
Fittings, etc. Debtors.
June, 1909 . . £7,206 £41,391
Dec., 1909 . . 6,944 50,230
June, 1910 . . 8,577 53,880
Dec., 1910 .. 53,782 68,402
June, 1911 . . 58,485 74,684
Dec., 1911 . . 69,889 90,630
June, 1912 . . 76,454 89,148
Dec., 1912 . . 80,995 103,491
June, 1913 . . 83,455 97,387
Dec., 1913 . . 75,999 101,222
And the bulk of that £101,222 is due on time-
payment sales, as compared with £41,391 five
years ago. Such an increase, of course, simply
howls for careful management. But the co.’s risk
lies not so much in the possibility of bad debts as
of having a heap of second-hand furniture thrown
on its hands, worth perhaps less than the difference
between the cost price and the amount paid as in-
stalments. In these boom days cash is plentiful,
and there is no difficulty in collecting instalments.
But when the loan bottle comes home empty there
is liable to be a wholesale sacking. Then the in-
stalments will come in slowly, and, not only will
profits come down with a jerk but the stock of
more or less damaged furniture is liable to be a
big weight on the co.’s chest. Each year, however,
something appears to have been added to a hidden
contingency fund to provide for possible losses, and
as risks have turned out better than was expected
casii in excess of requirements is put back into the
Reserve bund, and in the first table into profits,
ifns shows these movements over the past five years:
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
T , Account). Reserve Fund.
June, 1909 .. .. £4137 ?
Dec., 1909 .. .. 5822 £2120
June, 1910 .. .. 5585 1448
? ec > 191? •• •• 7339 3261
June, 1911 . . . . 6840 3592
? e °” •• •• 8156 4909
June, 1912 .. .. 7212 3900
Dec., 1912 .. .. 8618 4699
June, 1913 . . . . 7228 4267 ,
Dec., 1913 .. .. 8622 8360
The co.’s financial position is strong and should
be able to stand a pretty severe knock. Reserves
are very solid, and substantial additions are made
each half-year. Liabilities stand at £26,028, and
p ™P e ßy> shares in other cos., cash, stock, etc., at
£>75,999.
* * * *
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Aug., 05..£11,532 12 p.c. =£8,914 £2,618£136,232
Premiums on new shares .. 8,508 144 740
Feb., 06.. 11,298 12p.c.= 9,450 £971 877 145,617
13 > 811 12 •> .» 9,450 1000 3,361 148,978
beb., 07.. 14,564 12 ~ ~ 9,450 2000 3,114 152,092
Aug., 07.. 17,164 12 ,', ~ 9,450 6000 1,714 153,806
r, , Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 178,806
beb., 08.. 17,120 12p.c. = 11,025 2500 3,595 182,401
Aug., 08.. 16,272 1 2 „ ~ 11,025 2500 2,747 185 148
Feb., 09.. 16,142 12 ~ „ 11,025 2500 2,617 187,765
Aug., 09.. 16,663 12 ~ ~ 11,025 2500 3,138 190,903
beb., 10.. 16,346 12 „ ~ 11,156 2500 2,690 193,593
Aug., 10.. 16,575 12 ~ ~ 11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
Feb., 11.. 20,133 14 „ „ 12,862 4000 3,271 199,783
1 £’ 965 14 » ..12,862 6,103 204,886
Feb,, 12.. 17,941 14 „ „ 12,862 5,079 209,965
Aug-, 12.. 17,221 14 „ „ 12,862 - 4,359 214 324
Feb., 13.. 17,987 14 ~ ~ 12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug.,’l3.. 18,071 14 ~ ~ 12,862 6,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares .. 25,000 249,658
Feb., ’14.. 19,931 14 p.c. = 14,700 5,231 254,889
On the face of things it would seem that the profit
for the past half-year gets somewhat near being a
record. But the Commercial of Tas., being smitten
with the idea that to be quite respectable you must
have a large amount invested in British Consols,
owns £160,000 worth, face value. This next table
shows the result—as the price of consols drops, and
nothing drops more often than the price of consols,
the amount has been written off profits:—
February, February, August, February,
_ „ 1911- 1913. 1913. 1914.
Gross profit ..£37,480 £40,268 £33,416 £35,007
Less:
Expenses .. 12,705 14,194 14,677 15 010
Taxes .. 642 87 668 66
£24,133 £25,987 £18,071 £19,931
Less :
Loss on British
Consols . . 4,000 8,000
Net Profit ..£20,133 £17,987
Thus it will be seen that, although the bank has
done better this year than last, it is still behind
several of the previous years (before the deduction
for the loss on Consols). Still the profits could be
made to appear more gaudy. In the accounts consols
are taken at £72, whereas they are now £75
But The Bulletin thinks all the more of the bank
for not writing on the additional value. Since the
close of the half-year the directors have disposed of
£60,000 worth (face value), and the cash received
will no doubt be put at the disposal of the co.’s
customers. This comparison shows how the banking
business has moved:—
Feb., 1913. Feb., 1914.
Notes and bills. . £7,630 £5,847 Dec. £1,783
Deposits . . 1,878,870 1,919,117 Inc. 40,247
Liquid assets .. 607,560 599,140 Dec. 8,420
Advances . . 1,632,212 1,740,319 Inc. 108,107
Premises . . 54,039 55,094 Inc. 1,055
The co. has no branches out of Tasmania, and by
so confining its business cannot hope for very
dazzling returns. Still the profit for the past year
is at the excellent rate of £9 7s. Bd. p.c. of capital
and reserves combined, notwithstanding that during
the half-year £50,000 was got in ( £25,000 in capital
and a further £25,000 in premiums on the new
shares), and the co. would not have had time to
make much use of it. The total liabilities to the
public are £1,924,964, and against this the co.
holds capital and reserves equal to £1 for every
£4 55., an exceptionally strong position. Liquid
assets amount to £599,140, or 31 p.c. of the co.’s
debt to the public (deposits, etc.), so no one can
complain that the Commercial of Tasmania offers
insufficient security.
* * * *
The Adelaide Co-operative Society :
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. Off. serves.
Aug., ’O5. . £2399 £7BO 3§ p.c. = £1531 £251 £1332
Feb., 06.. 3128 789 3§ „ „ 1560 523 1588
Aug., >06.. 3150 808 3jj „ „ 1597 423 1910
Feb., 07.. 2898 845 3f „ „ 1590 282 2091
Aug., 07.. 3989 877 4J „ „ 1955 573 2675
Feb., 08.. 4138 935 5 „ „ 2385 610 2883
Aug., 08.. 4737 1007 5 „ „ 2790 581 3242'
Feb., 09.. 4255 1052 5 „ „ 3003 344 309 S
Aug., 09.. 4994 1103 5 „ „ 3182 632 3175
Feb., 10.. 4483 1179 5 „ „ 3253 294 2932
Aug., 10.. 5877 1284 5 „ „ 3658 464 3403
Feb., 11.. 6225 1425 5 „ „ 3872 539 3792
Aug., ’ll.. 4287 1537 3} „ „ 3129 522 2891
Feb., ’12.. 6743 1616 5 „ „ 4372 524 31*>->
Aug., ’12.. 8091 1652 5 „ „ 4744 865 3952
Feb., 13.. 6568 1733 5 „ „ 4765 510 3512
Aug., 13.. 8266 1768 5 „ „ 4954 569 4487
l'eb., ’14.. 8222 1900 5 „ „ 4850 600 5359
As usual that last line is, for the most part guess-
work, it having been assumed that (1) the usual
4 p.c. dividend will call for £l9OO, and (2) the
ln trie £ bonus to customers will amount to
£ 4 Bjo ; also the figures for the previous year have
been corrected since the Adelaide Co-op. Co.’s accounts
were last laid on the operating table. Although the
co. is doing very well—an increase of from £2399
at August, 1905, to £8266 at August, 1913, is an
excellent record it will always be considerably
handicapped on account of its more or less asinine
rules One of these provides that all or any of the
shareholders’ capital may be withdrawn on ridicu-
lously short notice. That is not so bad provided
money is Dlentiful; but when the pinch comes there
lu >l° 4o be .,*} rus h for all the cash available, and
then things will be uncomfortable for this concern
During the year there have been 332 withdrawals,
representing £15,735 of capital, and 584 new sub-
scribers, bringing in only £11,954. This practice
means that the co. is forced to keep too large a
proportion of its funds in cash and easily convertible
s f° ck - Consequently no less than
£19,924 is in liquid assets, and there are £14,163
of sundry debtors. Compare this with the Sydney
Civil Service Co-op. On a capital of £27,783, stock
represents £63,882, and the sales for six months
iis 18 4’ 101 i v3# Adelaide co.’s capital is
tI S a e f, ble stock £47 > 933 and its sales
a tri° 9,3 o si ' , Th e Sydney co. pays a dividend of 10 p.c.
and a 2s. in the £ bonus; the Adelaide co. 4 p.c.
Adpini^n 3, bonus - , In the matter of sales the
af C , does remarkably well, which goes to
show that the customers are there. But the co is
hv'thSr d ’ b lndfo ! d ?. d ’ str aight-.jacketed and hoppled
by that one regulation. Besides its capital and re-
drawablll haS W^n, 4 -’° 0 f 7 n ° n loan (no doubt also with-
drawable). Within the current six months the co
forward b , en . larged Premises and is looking
iorward to a greatly increased turnover.
* * *
(xVsw ) F^_ RMERS and Dairymen’s Milk Co.
Unex-
plained
Addi- Total
„ ~ tions Addi-
n to Re-tions to Re-
-1069 rMc Dividends. serves, serves, serves,
lonl" Nll „ £Bo ° £H96 £6,963
lona” loot 10 P-c. = £163 403 1278 8,241
1904.. 1025 10 „„ 146 612 1491 9,732
Taken from
Reserves
without
~ „ _ Explanation.
1905.. 312 10 p.c. = 145 90 77 9,809
Added to
Reserves
without
, _ Explanation.
ioot“ Wc 10 P- C = 1 42 897 1482 11,291
™ " 44 0 10 „„ 142 1277 1575 12,866
loot" 52? ft »” 139 859 1313 14,179
49 ? 9 -- lO ” ” 140 1500 2064 16,243
ftf?" ft ” ” 143 2000 3202 10.415
ftff" X t ” ” 145 2500 4402 23,547
iofq" ft ” ” 145 2500 4137 27,684
1913.. 2172 10 „ „ 145 2500 4527 32,211
This paper doesn t know whether the reserves are
genuine or not, or the extent to which they are
genuine, if they are genuine at all. On the pub-
lished accounts they are made up as follows- Re-
serves, •‘specific and general,” £17,853; unappropri-
ated profit, £14,358. In addition, there is £1827 of
forfeited capital; the bulk of the paid capital has
been forfeited, and only £1454 remains. If the
figures mean what they say, the results have been
very remarkable during the past few years. And
though what are described above as “unexplained
additions to reserves” may be doubtful (they consist
of transfers to what are now referred to as “specific
and general reserves”), the “trading profit” shown
fn ° V ?w be a p righ , t - In that case > even assum-
lrl» Ulat Ihe specific and general reserves” and the
additions thereto should all be written off to cover
depreciation, etc the profits for the past three years
have averaged 130 p.c. p.a. on the paid capital.
s rb e J ea - ag ?.the co. provided itself with extensive
5 d other Premises, and on December 31
1911, had a consequent debt of £23,612; but in two
years this has been reduced to £13,582. Even
allowing that a good deal of this surplus revenue
must be written off to cover depreciation of build-
ings and plant (which now stand at £40,262) the
fnna?Lti re v ,ery attractive, and shareholders ’have
apparently got a fine, remunerative property in return
for the few pounds they put into the business
BtTILDINO Societx
r> „ Divi- Added to
1901 d “f s - R eser ves. Reserves.
1901 .. £3Bll £3282 £529 £l3 nna
IZI •• 3939 3342 2SS *sB6B
*903 •• 3674 3363 311 1
ions '' 3650 3270 380 14^047
1 99 ;j • • 3264 2946 318 14 365
1906 ... 2774 2445 329 14 694
4997 • • 2431 2155 276 14*970
1908 . . 2541 2257 284 15 254
1909 .. 2564 2303 261 15 515
1910 .. 2573 2779 15 309
4914 ' ' 2826 176 15 ’ 485
4942 •' 2990 2917 73 15,558 '
1913 . . 3568 3287 281 15,839
This is something for the little man who wants to
save up to buy an easy chair for the days when he
gets rheumatism or the tired feeling. Pay in 3s. lOd.
a month for 15 years and there will be £5O wait-
ing for you; that is to say, your £34 10s. will
have grown to half a hundred. And the chances are
y° u won’t have to wait 15 years, because, in
addition to the promised interest or dividend, there
are bonuses as a pretty regular thing—for 1910,
2s. 6d per share; 1911 and 1912, 45.; and for 1913,
5s - This, of course, like the interest or dividend, is
put to the credit of the shareholder, and accumu-
lates at compound interest. Then as to the other
very important matter of security. Take first these
figures:—
„ ■, 4903 - 1910 ‘ 1911 - 1912. 1913.
Capital .. £53,868 £47,377 £43,927 £50,444 £51,403
Deposits 63,420 62,645 63,673 60,329 61,666
Mortgages 117,742 114,582 110,916 113,316 116,462
addition to the shareholders’ money there is
£61,666 of the public’s money in the business, and
the whole lot is out on mortgage; and, of course
there are risks in mortgages. But if the advances
are made prudently in the first place, and the out-
standing principal is reduced by repayments on the
building-society instalment plan, there are smaller
risks in this business than in most investments. And,
in any case, the share capital (consisting of the
amounts paid up as previously described) is pro-
tected by reserves of £15,839.
* * * »
The Queensland Civil Service Co-
operative Co. (Brisbane) :
. a.c Writ-
Dividends Purchasers’ ten Re-
Profits. and Duty. Bonus. Off. serves.
££• £ £ £
tT’’ 729 5 P-c.=140 p.c.=282 63 1212
t u y ’ Bl7 4 ....139 7 ~,,427 46 1417
Jan., 1900. . 954 4 ~,,127 7 „ „ 493 45 1706
July, 1906. 775 4 „ „ 129 7 „,, 533 45 1774
Premiums on shares, £6.. .. 1780
Jan., 1907. . 900 4 p.c.=133 7 p.c.=590 44 1919
Premiums on shares, £3.. .. 1922
J Tan y ’ Jims’ 4 P- c -= 159 7 P-c.=577 347 2055
Jan., 1908. . 1165 5 ~,,165 7 ~ ,700 97 2258
July, 1908.. 936 5 164 74 688 42 2300
Jan., 1909.. 884 5 ~,,104 64 654 41 2325
July, 1909.. 1233 5 „ „ 163 64 633 110 2652
Jan., 1910. . 1063 5 „ „ 165 64 675 51 2824
I n, 7 ’ Urn ' ' \ ’‘” l63 64,,’’, 629 99 3123
Jan., 1911.. JO9 5 ~,,165 64 ~ ~674 18 3175
i U n y ’i qi l 9 l " 1 Qo 1 4 i 5 ”” 165 64 ~ ~ 682 104 3508
Jan., 1912.. 901 4 ~,,142 6 ~ ~727 3540
July, 1912.. 598 24 „ „ 88 4 ~ ~ 434 42 3574
Jan,, 1913. .1276 5 ~,,165 6 „ „ 672 120 3893
t i Premiums on new shares, £1 .. 3894
July, 1913. .1028 5 p.c.=164 6 p.c.=633 78 4047
Premiums on new shares, £8 .. 4055
Jan., 1914.. 1493 5 p.c.=168 6 p.c.=703 37 4640
That is the co.’s 40th birthday, and it rises to the
occasion with a record profit of £l493—after
paying a bonus of £lll to its staff. But even that
is very poor compared with what a co-operative
concern should make in a place of Brisbane’s size.
™ l, h V' eaSOn ls . 4ba4 the alleged co-operators won’t
co-operate, nor will they pay cash. A co. like this
,Lh° g .°° d rl -/ f ,t he shareholder-customers insist on
on h V th I JS robbln ff hof the opportunity
to pay cash for its own purchases and to collect a
discount—winch of course it could pass on to
harehoWers in the shape of an increased bonus,
leu the past six months, out of sales of £23,870
no less t.ian £19,270 was made on credit Until
the position is altered the co. can’t hope to do
much for its shareholders. Compare it with the
Serv i ce: For the six months to January,
debit’s £lO n!T ei^ S £184,101, and customers 5
debits £10,014. Thus the Sydney co. is enabled to act t
big discount ( £ i B7 3 4 t y he half year). The
Queensland concern still has an overdraft of £1390
rn.fii!' 3 ! la ‘?. er th f n it: was six months ago, but
much less than at the beginning of 1913. Other
t lan that The Bulletin has no fault to find with
he balance-sheet; nor can it find a brick to throw
at the management. But it has a whole truck load
o blue metal handy for the shareholders.
*
The Foster Brewing Co. (Melbourne) :
jj «, To lie- Re-
Jan 1909 Vovi ' Dlv ’J. ends - serves, serves.
July, 1909 :: £ UI *V.e^*U40 £9 l I£ l!%}
July’ mo •’ jj ” ” 1440 888 62,’6?5
Jan 191? “ o’Jn? f ” ” 2304 3887 56,562
July 1911 " ’5 I ” ” 2304 203 56.765
Jan 1912 " ln’nnr of ” ” 2304 444 57,209
Killl 11 3 :::: 8» iS g®
July 1913 tten °23 F 6 r 6 e ® h 8 ld ®’ 22,111
• :: 5S |P -'“ SK
r-o n Foster , I.® m the Beer Combine—officially the
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.—and it isn’t in
much else now. It used to have brewery freehold
machinery and plant, which cost £88,704 and had
been written down to £47,985 at the end of 1907
For a while the Combine held a lease of this
property; then it made other arrangements, paid a
lump sum to be let out (hence the fine figures as at
Jan 1912), and threw the idle assets back on this
hlnn i ha ,? ds ' lh ’ s c , 0 -’ bein £ satisfied that the Com-
bine had come to stay and that it was no use keep-
P! emises that were fast getting out-
of-date as a stand-by, quitted the lot at the bargain
counter, and wrote off the £36,591 mentioned K
apparently the book-keeping loss on the deal. -This
Of P th O C rn S k a hook-keeping loss because the success
°L th ® 9°™ blne destroyed the value of the brewery,
etc., and this co. shares in the success of the Com-
£362sAfnrnr^romi the £72 .’ 5OO in ordinary and
f 3d25 9 m pref. shares—making a total holding of
£76,125 in the Combine—the Foster’s only assets
now are £6240 owing on property sold, a 7 deposit
n° m +v, ne ’ ,i ind trifles ’ the lot totalling
£12,426. On the other side the co. owes £6184,
mostly on debentures. Thus, except for £6242 all
bas i- s :, ir ' , the , Combine; and if the bottom
drops out of that basket, all the co.’s eggs are cus-
tard. At present the basket looks safe enough,
though it has to be remembered that a whole lot of
its capital is represented only bv froth. The Com-
bines paid-up capital is £1,000,000 in ordinaries
and £lOO,OOO in cumulative prefs.; and no less
than £BOO,OOO is represented by “purchase considera-
tion, which is independent of freehold, leasehold
plant, and suchlike tangible assets. So long as the
Combine keeps going and the co. doesn’t have to trv
to realise on the froth, things are all right. The
“ u - manages a 74 p.c. div. with apparent
ease, and this co. s share suffices for its very moderate
exes, and an 8 p.c. dividend.
* * * *
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.) :
t, „ . To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
T eC "’ Ifnv " £ )£ B 10 P- c - = £375 £133 £1567
June, 1907 .. 488 10 ~ ~ 375 113 1680
Dec., 1907 .. 543 10 ” 375 168 1848
June, 1908 .. 673 10 ~ ~ 375 298 2146
Dec., 1908 . . 613 10 „ ~ 375 238 2384
June, 1909 .. 672 10 „ „ 375 297 2681
Dec., 1909 .. 731 10 „ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910 .. 779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Dec., 1910 .. 719 10 „ „ 375 344 3785
June, 1911 .. 663 10 „ „ 375 288 4073
? eC ’’ •" 512 10 » .. 375 137 4210
June, 1912 . . 445 10 „ „ 375 70 4280
Dec., 1912 .. 645 10 „ „ 375 270 4550
June, 1913 .. 618 10 „ „ 375 243 4793
Dec., 1913 . . 525 10 ~ ~ 375 150 4943
Profits for the half-year have been cut into to pay
for additional works, and .that in one way is a good
sign, because it suggests that the capital account
isn t inflated with replacements and odds and ends
Generally, the position is solid:—
T . 1903. 1912. 1913.
Liabilities £5117 £5310 £4025
Liquid assets .. .. 870 4136 3115
Excess liabilities .. £4247 £1174 £9lO
Thus in 10 years, while a steady 10 p.c. div. has
been paid, the cash, or good-as-cash, position has
been improved by £3337 ; and meantime deprecia-
tion seems to have been well provided for. How
much revenue has been put into new plant to coun-
terbalance the depreciation of old plant it isn’t possi-
ble to say; but extensions paid for out of revenue
seem to have been considerable, judging by the fact
that gross revenue has increased from £1654 to
£2237. Probably no N.S.W. gas co., even if it isn’t
wholly within the recent Gas Act, will now venture
to put its div. above 10 p.c.; but this co.’s 10 p.c.
looks safe enough.
* * ♦ *
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1906.. 1134 4 p.c.= 1050 84 7,545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ „ 1050 500 8,045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 „ „ 1050 309 7,829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 „ „ 1050 800 7,722
June, 1908.. 1590 4 „ „ 1050 200 340 8,062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4 „ „ 1050 250 261 8,323
June, 1909.. 1769 4 „,, 1050 200 519 8,842
Dee., 1909.. 1520 4 „ „ 1062 200 258 9,100
June, 1910.. 1318 4 „ „ 1062 300 9,056
Dec., 1910.. 1377 4 „ „ 1050 200 127 9,183
June, 1911.. 1471 4 „ „ 1050 300 121 9,304
Dec., 1911.. 1564 4 „ „ 1050' 200 314 9,618
June, 1912.. 1496 4 „ „ 1050 300 146 9,764
Dec., 1912.. 1543 4 „ „ 1050 400 93 9,857
June, 1913.. 1312 4 „ „ 1050 200 62 9,919
Dec., 1913.. 1640 4 ~ „ 1050 450 140 10,059
This co. has nothing but bread and butter ahead of
it, the municipal electric light and power enterprise
having destroyed all hope of anything more voluptu-
ous. Seven years ago the liabilities in excess of
assets other than buildings, plant, etc., were £23,389.
The figure now is £21,710 —an improvement in
seven years of only £1679. Something, probably,
has been spent meantime on plant, but apparently
not much, anyway not much more than enough to
sustain the profit. The trouble is that the municipal
business isn’t out to make a profit, and, moreover,
it has a handy and cheap source of power-supply.
Between those two millstones the profits of the com-
peting gas co. are ground exceeding small.
* * * #
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £,£,£, £,
June, 1906.. 2285 6 p.c.= 1340 386 559 5,568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6 „ „ 1340 439 649 6,117
June, 1907.. 2183 6 „ „ 1340 408 435 6,552
Dec., 1907.. 2072 6 „ „ 1377 455 240 6,792
June, 1908.. 1924 6 „ „ 1490 810 6,416
Dec., 1908.. 1962 6 ~,, 1490 807 6,081
June, 1909.. 2465 6 „ „ 1490 968 7 6,088
Dec., 1909.. 2633 6 ~,, 1490 933 210 6,298
June, 1910.. 1627 1101 - 526 6,824
Dec., 1910.. 2900 6 p.c.= 1490 1743 6,491
Premiums on new shares . . 514 7,005
June, 1911.. 3570 6 p.c.= 1618 705 1247 8,252
Premiums on new shares . . 10 8,262
Dec., 1911.. 3095 6 p.c.= 1800 1295 9,557
June, 1912.. 3289 6 „ „ 1800 3748 7,298
Dec., 1912.. 4007 6 „ „ 1800 969 1238 8,536
June, 1913.. 4045 6 ~,, 1800 2245 10,781
Dec., 1913.. 3763 6 ~,,1800 667 1296 12,077
This co., which nowadays presents its accounts in the
excellent form adopted long ago by the big Mel-
bourne co., has been making much progress during
the past few years. Only five years ago its gas
revenue for six months was £4961 ; for the past
half-year it was £10,308. This increase has, of
course, only been accomplished by a considerable
capital expenditure; fixed assets (plant, land and
meters) stood at £56,703 five years ago, and now
represent £76,964. Even on those figures, though,
the turnover has increased out of all proportion to
the increase of capital expenditure. The money to
pay for the extra plant and for other purposes has
been raised partly by a new issue of shares (for-
merly the capital was £49,665, and now it is
£60,000), and partly by a temporary loan of
£13,000. Expenses are heavy; and, though the
table shows a very satisfactory profit earned in
excess of the very moderate 6 p.c. div., it seems
highly probable that the true surplus is a good deal
less, because part of the sums put to reserves appear
to be necessary to cover general depreciation. Cer-
tain amounts are shown as written off; but they
only cover the cost of actual renewals, and it is
pretty certain that there is general depreciation
over and above that. And apoarently no undisclosed
profits are stuffed away in new works. Altogether,
then, though a margin may be made beyond the
present 6 p.c., it doesn’t appear to be anything more
than merely comfortable. But the outlook is good ;
and, since standing charges shouldn’t increase in
proportion to the growth of the business, share-
holders look as though they have a steadily-improving
good thing ahead of them.
* * * *
Warwick Butter and Dairying Co.
(Queensland), which began with a deficit of £329
preliminary exes.:—
Bonus to Written De-
June, Loss. Dividend. Clients. Off. ficit.
1903 .. £lOl Nil £430
1904 . . 273 Nil 703
Profit.
1905 73 Nil 630
Reserves.
1906 .. 2399 8 p.c. =£233 £546 £823 167
1907 . . 1830 8 „ „ 376 898 723
Forfeited capital, £24 .. ... 747
1908 .. 2305 8 p.c. = 547 670 769 1066
1909 .. 2381 6 „ „ 442 578 806 1621
1910 . . 4009 8 „ „ 595 1261 1107 2667
1911 .. 3163 6 „ „ 451 1209 1540 2630
Share premiums, £328 . . .. 2958
1912 .. 3787 6 p.c. = 609 2439 579 3118
Share premiums, £6B .. ... 3186
1913 . . 2276 10 p.c. = 497 326 4639
Dec.,
1913 881 466 5054
Last half-year this co. called in the doctor, and the
result was an amended balance-sheet wherein the
credit at profit and loss was reduced from £2528
to £2276, the difference being ascertained losses on
butter exported to London. The doctor’s diagnosis,
which covers a fairly large page of bad print, doesn’t
report any dishonest practices, but carelessness in
book-keeping is alleged. As to current operations,
though the past half-year showed a much poorer
result than that of the corresponding half of 1912,
every factory—the co. has four—gave a profit. No
doubt some of the shrinkage was due to a stricter
system of valuing stocks and unrealised consignments
to London; the bad old plan seems to have been
to take, credit for all butter shipped as first grade,
which it wasn’t, and not at cost price, but at the
Brisbane selling price on date of shipment. The
present butter factories are at Warwick, Allora and
Texas, with a cheese factory at Elbow Vale; and
another butter factory goes up this half-year at
Goondiwindi. Liabilities total £11,220 (including
£9824 due to suppliers in December), and against
that there are £13,798 of liquid assets. The posi-
tion looks sound enough; but apparently the co.
buys butter straight-out for export, and as there is
a very considerable risk in that trade, divs. and
bonuses should be kept strictly moderate until much
stronger reserves are accumulated.
* * * *
George Meudell, of Melbourne, seems to be
persuading. people that petroleum does exist
m Australia, and to date has upwards of 2000
applications for S.A. Oil Wells Co. shares. Inci-
dentally, Meudell is becoming something of a public
speaker, and within two months has addressed 30
meetings on oil.


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word with minimum of 18s. (24 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC.
Daily.
Ordinary.
3/-
3/-
-/4J
2/4
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
1/5
Great Britain .
Germany
New Zealand ..
Canada
U.S.A
Argentine, Brazil, 1
Chili and Peru /
West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week End
Regulations may be obtained at
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/8$ 2/10i
America and other
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
fh
WISE
MANAGERS
ALWAYS ORDER
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
GOODS *
THEY KNOW WHAT “DUNLOP” QUALITY
MEANS-GOOD SERVICE AND SATISFACTION.
Samples and Tenders Submitted. Lists on Application
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane. Wellington
and Christchurch.
To-day thousands of mine managers and factory
owners make money, not so much upon goods sold
as upon things saved, expenses curtailed. One of the
biggest expenses a plant has is its machinery—it
follows, therefore, that profit leaks here are big
and worth saving. Faulty transmission belting is an
astounding profit-reducer. Pulleys running half
time bring but half-time profits—but “Pioneer"
Leather Belting will end the transmission power
profit leaks in your plant by its tight gripping and
non-slipping. The profit-building power of “Pioneer”
Leather Belting goes further than our word. Profit-
building is made into every foot of the belt. The
belts are built on a sure foundation. None but the
centre cuts of the strongest Australian leather—
these oak-tanned in our own tannery and subse-
quently built up with best materials and by the
most efficient workmen —combine successfully in a
length of “Pioneer” Leather Belting. Don’t take
unnecessary chances with profit leaks. Secure the
full time work of every pulley in your plant hv
equipping your drives with “Pioneer” Leather Belt-
ing. Made only by J. 0. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
“Pioneer Works,” 117 York Street, Sydney. Sold
direct or through our agents in all principal inter-
state cities.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed!
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,.
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
From June to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire-
Council (Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards,
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. per cub.
3'ard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under-
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. Sd. per-
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is.;,
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd.— a saving of 2s. sd.
per cub. yard. This result was obtained by using a>
Bigelow 16in. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the-
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the-
manufacturers of these breakers.* [2
* * * *
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,.
1911: “The annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence-
that ‘Forward 7 is still the watchword of the direc-
tors ; for in every direction admirable progress has;
been achieved.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is manufactured only from \
the highest-grade Oregon, which has been proved, by
long experience, to be the timber best suited to the-
purpose. As water preserves wood, this piping will:
last indefinitely. Catalogue from the Australian Wood’
Pipe Co., Ltd., 67 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*'
* * * *
Amongst orders received since the New- Year by-
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and!
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,.
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Mackay Harbor-
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two—each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;:
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearingMrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for-
Electric Lighting; whilst at the present time they are •
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric-
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
* * * *
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are-
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’'
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process:
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays-
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given ora
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy..
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons bv arrange-
ment.*
* * *• *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRTSTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you’an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * •
11.M.A.5. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatins
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
’Phone
CITY-8332.
Poldi Steel
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co
(N. S.W.) : Bonus to Written Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1901 .. £2370 10 p.c. =£94 £lOlO £307 £4,730
1902 . . 3482 10 „ „ 94 2313 390 5,415
1903 .. 2609 10 „ ~ 95 2000 368 5,561
1904 .. 2898 10 „ ~ 98 2525 295 5,541
1905 .. 4073 10 ~ „ 98 3130 342 6,04-1
1906 .. 4929 10 „ „ 99 3862 373 6,639
1907 .. 4394 10 „ „ 99 3450 338 7,146
1908 . . 5967 10 „ „ 99 4240 320 8,454
1909 .. 4363 10 „ „ 99 1465 295 10,958
1910 .. 1591 10 „ „ 99 1251 275 10,924
1911 .. 1673 10 „ „ 99 1001 257 11,240
1912 .. 2361 10 „ „ 100 1420 655 11,426
1913 .. 2220 10 „ ~ 101 1119 704 11,722
With a paid capital of only £lOl7, this co. has
now accumulated reserves amounting to £11,722; in
other words, instead of calling on the shareholders
to put up more capital to meet the requirements of
a growing business, it has made the profits supply
the money. This is all right so long as the suppliers
are also the shareholders. If not, it is very pleasant
for the shareholders, to whom, of course, the reserves
belong, but not quite so satisfactory to the suppliers,
whose money has gone to build up the business.
Even now, in spite of the pretty big accumulation of
reserves, the co.’s funds are none too big; and they
wouldn’t be as adequate as they are if it were not
for the cash or short-credit basis on which this
butter business is worked. On a turnover which
probably runs to close-up half a million a year (it
may be more), the book debts on December 31 were
only £20,602. If there were 30 or 40 wholesalers
in the butter-supply profession, this excellent system
of C.0.D., or fortnightly credit at most, would be
almost out of the question. But, as a matter of
fact, almost the whole Sydney trade —anyway, so
far as the co-operative factories are concerned —is in
the hands of two cos. This one is largely co-opera-
tive, the other wholly so; and though they spar a
little, they manage things well enough and run the
business on the one system which can eliminate bad
debts. The only improvement would be the amalga-
mation of the two cos., and the consequent removal
of some overlapping and waste, which saving would
in due course go either to the cow-cockies in the
shape of a shade higher prices, or to the public in
the shape of a shade lower ones. Even now, owing
to the trade being concentrated as much as it is,
the cow cockies get their butter handled on a 3 p.c.
commission, which is so low as to suggest co-opera-
tive distribution in other producing industries. And
off even that 3 p.c. there comes at the end of the
year the substantial rebate or bonus mentioned in
the foregoing table.
* * * *
In three years to the end of 1913 Broken
Hill railed away 2,267,144 tons of concentrates and
ore. More than 1,700,000 tons of crude ore were
raised last year. The lead output for 1912 was
101,811 tons; 5,220,5380 z. silver were smelted
locally, and 97,736 tons of lead exported in con-
centrates. Broken Hill has done well because prices
have been high, but a drop in lead from say £2O to
£l5 means something like £900,000 lost to the
field, and even if spelter maintained its price—
which is exceedingly improbable—the Hill would pay
very modest dividends with lead at £l5. The
average cost of producing lead concentrates last year
was over £6, but luckily for the field, the average
net price realised by the mines was over £9
(327,431 tons for £3,171,433).
The Great Cobar (N.S.W.) reconstruction
scheme is reported to have fallen through. The mine
is suffering from an inadequate and costly supply of
fluxes, and limestone has to be hauled from Geurie
and Molong. The basic ore in the big mine has
become more patchy in the deepest levels, and is
alternated with silicious material. Great Cobar blister
copper contains gold and silver averaging over £2O
per ton of copper, but the cost of refining and real-
ising is about £7, and debenture interest has been
equal to from £6 to £7 per ton of copper ; so ex-
penses have taken the gilt edge off, and the low
extraction, varying from 1.6 p.c. to 2 p.c. copper
per ton of crude ore, doesn’t leave much room for
profit when copper is down to £65.
* * * *
For a run of 14 days to March 18,
Occidental Gold (Cobar, N.S.W.) cyanided 1124
tons of slimes for 2830 z. gold, an average of
5.03dwt., or, say, 20s. per ton of slimes. The material
treated contained 3360 z., so more than 3s. 6d. per
ton was unrecovered. Cyanide recovers only 85 p.c.
of the gold at the Occidental plant as some of the
ore is refractory to that process. Ten tons of con-
centrates, estimated to contain 1500 z., were also
saved ; but these are subject to returning charges, so
it is doubtful if the Occidental’s clean-up will pan
out 30s. per ton. At the 640 ft. level the crosscut
is in 173 ft. No. 2 lode is 30ft. wide, value 9dwt.,
and the drive has connected with the Wallis winze
from the level above. The Occidental has been
hauling lOdwt. stone, worth about 345. Some of
the other workings are low grade, so the Occidental
will be lucky if it averages 30s. per ton for six
months. For some time past costs have 'strangled
profits. &
* * * *
Pernatty Lagoon (S.A.) boomed up on
John Woolcoek’s report that there are 150.000 tons of
low-grade carbonates available. There seems to be a
brotherly geological resemblance between Pernatty
and the Arrino deposit (W.A.), which years since
flashed out and then went back into darkness. Both
carry low-grade carbonates, and both, if The Bulle-
tin remembers rightly, have a sandstone gangue. There
are odd bits of Arrino bornite on Queen-street mantel-
pieces still. But Arrino never left the £5OO mark
behind, as Pernatty is doing. Leaching with sul-
phuric acid is to make Pernatty uncommonly rich at a
cost of a unit of copper. This leaves, say, four units
to cover realisation charges and the many etceteras
that copper mines are heirs to. Say these eat up
another unit, and 245. remains. On 150,000 tons
available, this counts up nicely, if the ore occurrence
is free from the erratic behavior of secondary deposits,
if the costs can be kept low, and if the capital out-
lay won’t swamp a lot more cash than the gentle
promoter reckons on. Perhaps, too, the same gentle-
man might quote what his scrap-iron will cost, and
what treatment of the copper sludge will be.
South Australia produced £642,026 worth
of mineral last. year (1913), of which £488,986
was for copper (7161 tons), £27,000 for gold,
£48,750 for salt, and £50,000 for fluxes. The
export of slate is increasing, but although salt is
included among minerals slate is not. The export
of ironstone may in the long run put copper back
to second place, and the coal and coke from N.S.W.
will make it possible for S.A. to considerably in-
crease its own iron manufactures. The possession of
ironstone does not, of course, offset the lack of coal
and coke, 60 S.A. will presumably prospect more
vigorously than ever for a payable coal field of its
own. Its production of uranium ore (carnotite)
doesn’t count for much yet.
* * * *
When Poseidon Alluvial (Vic.) got on to
rich ground beyond the miners’ rights patches on the
lead, supporters became more numerous and shares
went up. But though the wash lived on, the nug-
gets didn't, and the gutter became very narrow. Still
the gold lived below the point where the experts
from the Mines Department swore it would fizzle out.
Lower down the gutter the first trouble met with was
poorer dirt, then heavy water, and later a big fall
in the gutter. Two shafts had to be provided and
a new lift fitted up. Visick, from Rutherglen, has a
main level out east and a crosscut under the deep
ground. Here a rise prospects wash up to 17dwt. to
the dish. As the sudden fall in the gutter ought to
lead to a scouring of the gold, this sampling should
about settle the crowd that is trying to freeze Posei-
don out.
* * * *
“Matey”: I don’t want to discourage
“ICaneiry” (B. 26/2/’l4), but I’m afraid his gypsum
deposit will never be of much value. There is not a
Victorian patch of gypsum that equals the deposits
of Yorke Peninsula (S.A.). There in parts the
analysis shows 99 p.c. purity, and if Australia only
had a decent tariff wall plaster-of-paris factories
would rise like mushrooms. Many of the S.A.
deposits are lakes in winter and dry in the hot
weather, leaving a pure crystalline bed, the most
suitable basis of good alabaster. Most Vic. gypsum
beds are only fit for manures. Then the value only
lies in that the gypsum liberates manurial properties
already in the soil, having practically none itself.
The gypsum mine at Boort (Vic.) has been con-
trolled by one of the Vic. manure factories for
many years. Cement manufacture takes in gypsum
as raw material (thousands of tons come to the
N.S.W. factories from S.A. ports) as it keeps the
cement from setting too quickly. What we want is
a Protective tariff to foster the plaster-of-paris indus-
try. If the Tariff Commission now sitting only
walked along the wharves in the main cities and
counted the barrels of plaster helping to make con-
gestion the members would be astounded at the
quantity imported; and they might give gypsum a
helping hand, more especially if they knew their
dinner ale was clarified with it.
* * # *
Great Fitzroy (Q.) has given Mount
Morgan a three months’ option over its Laloki mine
in Papua. The purchase price has been fixed at
£75,000, and if the sale comes off, Fitzroy intends
to redeem its debenture debt of £36,000, pay its
numerous bills, and then use the balance for develop-
ment work. As the Great Fitzroy smelters were de-
pending to a pretty large extent on the Laloki
matte, an arrangement has been made whereby
they are to have a call one one-quarter of the Laloki
output of matte or ore at cost plus 10 p.c.
Chillagoe (Q.) advertises the payment of
debenture interest (5 p.e.) as usual. The railway
revenue for 11 months to Feb. 28 totalled £95,065.
It has been suggested that the Government should
purchase the line at a price based on the profits ex-
tending over a term of years. Under the agree-
ment with the Chillagoe Co. the State has the right
to purchase the line at the end of 50 years, at cost,
so it isn’t disposed to pay an abnormally high price
on the strength of a short burst of prosperity. Still
the construction of the Etheridge and Mount Mulli-
gan railways, under Government supervision, as well as
the agreements that have been entered into, may in-
duce the State to purchase the Chillagoe road.
Queensland’s output both of sugar and
coal for 1913 was a record. The sugar production
was 241,496 tons from 2,065,144 tons of cane, as
compared with 113,060 tons from 994,212 tons of
cane for 1912. The quantity of cane required to
produce a ton of sugar varied from 7.45 tons in
No. 1 district to 8.76 tons in No. 2 district. Coal,
for the first time, passed the million, the quantity
produced being 1,037,944 tons, worth £403,767, at
an average value at the pit’s mouth of 7s. to 9s. 3d.
Mount Morgan (Q.) has lost some of its
gilt edge, although an average of slightly over 12oz.
fine gold per ton of copper prevents any serious
slump. With its new smelting plant at work on ore
and concentrates, Mount Morgan should easily pro-
duce 8000 tons of copper and £400,000 worth of
gold a year; but it doesn’t follow that dividends
(now, £200,000 per annum) will be increased. As
a matter of fact, Mount Morgan has been dividing
less than half the value of its gold, and although it
has strengthened its financial position, there is
nothing about plant or reserve fund to call for ad-
miration. Recent returns have been below the
average and the profits nb doubt have suffered.
* * * *
The Mammoth (N.Q.) is developing its
bottom level at 230 ft. with fair results. No. 1, the
main lode, is being driven on south below the strong
shoot at the 160 ft. level and No. 2 lode is being
driven north from the crosscut, latest assays averag-
ing 11 p.c. over a width of 4ft. Now that Chillagoe
is closed down, the Mammoth, before it starts another
smelting campaign, vvill have to decide how to dis-
pose of its 30 p.c. to 35 p.c. copper matte. Mount
Molloy and the O.K. soon found it profitable to con-
vert their own matte, and the Mammoth may follow
the Lame course.
* * » *
Brilliant Deeps (Charters Towers) has
started to open No. 7 level from the underlay shaft,
which is down 126 ft. So far prospects in the
eastern drive have been very poor, but the shaft is
at the edge of a strong shoot of ore, making east
at No. 6 level. In stoping over No. 6 level another
vein of stone was met with in the hanging wall and
reserves will be increased in consequence. A winze
86ft. east of the shaft from No. 6 level is following
a strong reef. For the first eight feet it is sft.
wide and heavily mineralised, and it is dipping at
a steep angle compared with the underlay in the
shaft. Brilliant Blocks expects to connect with the
B. Deeps No. 4 level very shortly.
* * * *
Nil Desperandum at Burtville (W.A.)
has just come to light with a yield of 116 oz. bullion
from 265 tons. This is the show which newspaper
telegrams from the West last year alleged had tens
of thousands of ounces in sight; but so far only a
small proportion of the supposed wealth has been
extracted. The mine certainly has a rich patch, but
nothing like the size represented.
Somewhere near the truth was told about
Tindals (W.A.) at the recent shareholders’ meeting.
As chairman Robinson pointed out, and as The
Bulletin has been saying for years, the ore, like
most of the Coolgardie gold deposits, is very patchy
and no consistent run of good payable stone can be
obtained for love or money. It is, as Robinson
stated, only by large tonnages that a fair general
average can be maintained and the co. will be lucky
if that average exceeds sdwt. of fine gold per ton.
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) has decided to
try its luck in the North. Seven years ago the man-
ager, Jack MacDermott, abandoned seven leases north
of the main workings and pegged out a similar
number to the south. His reason for this was that
values snuffed out north below the No. 8 level in the
main shoot, and by the time the No. 14 level was
reached they had pitched so far south that the
first 700 ft. driven was in barren country. ' Nearly all
the gold won from the mine since MacDermott gave
up the northern blocks has come from the south
blocks, so he had his head screwed on the proper
way so far as this move was concerned. Now Dr.
Maclaren has, as a result of a recent geological
inspection, got a notion that there may be some-
thing else hidden in the north and the co. is sinking
a shaft to find out.
* * * *
The veil has at last been officially drawn
aside in regard to the Mararoa (W.A.). Most people
who were in touch with the short-lived locality in
which this splendid little mine is situated thought
that its days were not likely to be very long in the
land, and it has been a surprise to some that it has
kept on its feet so long. Now regret is expressed
by the chairman that “the past two years’ develop-
ment has been disappointing,” and that “the last
six months’ work failed to disclose any further ore
of payable value.” Prayers were offered up for the
lost permanency of the Mararoa by The Bulletin
long, long ago, but at the time doubts were expressed
regarding the efficacy of the supplications. The fact
that a number of other shows have been tested and
turned down by the co. isn’t a good advertisement
for the West, and seems to indicate that new pro-
perties are getting very scarce over there nowadays.
After being worried by machinery drum-
mers for months, and almost slnothered with speci-
fications and drawings of mills, batteries and other
ore-chewers, Edna May Central (W.A.) has resolved
to install a 10-head Fraser and Chalmers mill.
In view of the trouble experienced by a number of
mostly weakly-financed Adelaide and Melbourne cos.
who went in for second-hand stuff, the Central
people have probably done the right thing in getting
brand new plant. Anyway it is hoped so.
* * * *
Having treated the Long Reef dump at
Lennonville, Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) is now left with
the Kalgoorlie lease as its only asset. Several par-
ties of tributors are fossicking on this block, and
two of them are on good stuff. Last month one party
(Oates) crushed 36 tons for an average of 45dwt.
over the plates, and left 3oz. per ton in the tailings.
Hie ore came from a depth of 40ft., and there is
alleged to be plenty more there. Occasional “rises”
have been made out of tributing on this show during
the past dozen years, but shareholders have never
received anything, and, as far as can be seen at
present, never will.
* * * *
Six months’ exemption was granted on
the Princess Royal, North Norseman (W.A.), to the
lately-deceased John Darling the other day. This
was one of several Norseman shows which Adelaide
dropped money over. Finally the co. gave it up
and it passed into the hands of Darling, as principal
shareholder, and up to the date of the application
he had spent nearly £2500 without receiving any
return. Had he lived it was intended to continue
the drive from the No. 5 level of the now practi-
cally defunct Princess Royal into the property, but
now he is dead it is not known what will be done.
* * * *
The old Robinson mine at Kanowna
(W.A.) is again obtruding itself on public notice.
The discovery of rich specimens led to its London
flotation in the early days of White Feather, and for
a time it boomed. Bullion worth £70,000 or there-
abouts was soon dug out of flat leaders and £BOOO
was paid in dividends. Then values gave out at a
shallow depth and down came the blind. In recent
years occasional rich patches have been taken out by
tributors, and only the other day a few tons of stuff
returned £4O per ton. These crushings, however,
take some finding.
Candid extracts from Professor Liveing’s
report on the Associated Northern Co.’s Westralian
mines:—-Iron Duke (Kalgoorlie) lease: “I am afraid
the tributors have nearly feached the end of their
tether.... The co. could not possibly work the mine
again itself unless a new ore body could be discovered,
and the chance of this is too remote to risk further
money in exploration... .Victorious (Ora Banda)
leases: The lode occurs in a wide band of porphyry
rock.... The ore body as opened at the fifth level
looks favorable, and the grade of ore in the sulphide
zone is good.... The geological conditions are good,
but as there are no deep shafts in the neighborhood
I have no direct knowledge of the behavior of the
lodes in depth. The country rock may harden up
or become unfavorable, or slides may cut off the
lode or alter its value, but barring these possibilities
it may reasonably be expected to develop into a
payable mine.... The possibility of other shoots of
ore being found in the property must also be taken
into account.” In other words, the future of the
show does not hang by a very stout thread.
* * * *
The Tasmania gold mine (Beaconsfield,
Tas.) crushed 3031 tons last month for 8450 z.,
cyanided 1140 tons for 270 z., and treated 1424 tons
of accumulated products for 6470 z., total 15190 z.
fine. These accumulated products are expected to
give some sort of liquidation dividend, but share-
holders who expect 2s. per share seem a bit opti-
mistic. The Tasmania lode traverses conglomerate
and sandstone country, and although the depth at-
tained is very moderate (1500 ft.) the claim is so
wet that the cost of sinking a lift and opening up
another level is estimated at over £65,000. In
fact one estimate is £lOO,OOO. The trouble is that
a sloping width of 7ft. and a length of 1200 ft.
don’t give sufficient ore worth foz. per ton. Costs
run to 355. per ton including 6s. for pumping.
* * * *
If diamond drill results are the stuff out
of which mines are made, Hercules (Tas.) has now
wiped out the sting of Blakemore’s report. Criss-
cross boring below the bottom level has proved ore
to the right, ore to the left, and ore deep down.
Thus arises the genesis of 300,000 tons of added
reserves to Blakemore’s written-down total. The
estimate would have been more convincing if the
boring had crossed the ore body at different points.
Assays, too, in lead sulphides aren’t always reliable,
because the drill makes for where the ore is most
friable and generally richest. There is talk of
another market float on drill results.
* * * *
Tasmania produced minerals valued at
£1,415,700 for 1913. Gold, including that recov-
ered from blister copper and lead bullion was worth
£141,876; silver lead ore, £319,997; blister cop-
per (gold deducted), £364,732; tin, £543,103 ;
coal, £25,367; wolfram, £7040; bismuth, £1627;
osmiridium, £12,016; shale, £l3O. Tasmania is
rich in zinc, which, it is to be hoped, will be in-
cluded in future returns.
* * * *
As a result of boring Hercules (Tas.)
has added 300,000 tons of probable ore to its
reserves. Assays speak up so well that shareholders
imagine that values are becoming richer at depth.
But the deepest bore hole (No. 8) has only got
down to 87ft. below No. 5. It proved ore 230 ft.
vertically below No. 4, and 2.6dwt. gold, 8.20 z.
silver, 29 p.c. zinc, 0.24 p.c. copper, 7.6 p.c. lead
are good assays for the Hercules.
Malayan dredging is just now popular
stock. With Debook shares at 575., the Lionel
Robinson deal for the unissued 20,000 shares looks a
sweet thing for the crowd. The deal is 10,000
shares at 48s. net, with a six-months’ option over
5000 more at 535., and a 12 months’ option for the
remaining 5000 at 575. Present contributing shares
are paid to 18s.
* * *
With an increased issue talked of, and
London disposed to come in, Tongkah Com-
pound (Siam) shares have had plenty of sup-
port. A February return of 64 tons of con-
centrates from 64,750 cubic yards was excep-
tional. The daily average was three tons of black
tin, worth over £3OO. The average of over 21b.
per cubic yard was also another favorable feature.
The first return in March (14 days) was 13 tons
16ewt. of black tin from 18,000 cubic yards—a
heavy slump in both quantity and quality.


HEIDSIECKS
Vimage 1906
CMflMffi'
lit PLUS ULTRA
f
FARMER’S
Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies.
Following we quote our list
charges for expert workmanship
ing and Massage:—
. hairdressing,
Plain
With Marcel Waving
Marcel Waving ..
Cutting
Singeing
Shampooing
With Plain Dressing ....
With Marcel Waving
Electric Hair Treatment—
One Treatment
Course of five
„ MASSAGE.
Face— One Treatment
Course of nine
Scalp—- One Treatment
Course of five
Bust —- One Treatment
Course of five ..
CHIROPODY, each foot from..
GIRLS’ HAIRCUTTING
of moderate
in Hairdress-
s. d.
2 6
0 3
0 4
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets
6
6
0
0
6
6
C
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
O
6
0
BUCHANAN’S
Black (& White.
It,
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, April 6, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
Melba left America on March 19, and
warbles in Paris in opera this month. Her
holiday visit here is postponed later than
she wished. The Covent Garden manage-
ment kept Mrs. Nellie to her engagement to
open the London opera season with them in
May. Now she is booked to leave Toulon
on June 11 in the Orsova. The voice of
Australia’s chief songster must be one of
the vocal miracles of the century, for en-
raptured critics on the other side still
search for new adjectives to trail round its
“girlish freshness.” An English tour that
had been arranged for the end of this year
has been pushed forward to the early part
of 1915, so that Mrs. Melba can eat her
Christmas dinner in her own country.
Amongst the guests at the recent wedding
of Miss Rose Heaton, daughter of Penny
Post Henniker Heaton, were our ex-Ad-
miral King Hall and his'gentle lady. The
groom was Major Adrian Porter. Our late
Admiralty lady in a line or two that came
by the last mail speaks of the “liberal edu-
cation” of a couple of years’ residence in
the Commonwealth. Re the more vexed
question of the home-grown English girl
and her choice of school inarms, Lady King-
Hall says: “She is passing through the great
upheaval which is affecting the women of
this country [Britain]. The Girl is either
so advanced that it is difficult to classify
her, or she is being kept within bounds by a
determined mother, in whom the memory
of mid-Victorian convenances still lingers.”
Hence, as a counter blast to both extremes,
the growing-up daughter Louisa is still at
boarding-school in Brussels.
The A.J.C. Races this autumn will be
trimmed with emerald green lawns after
the frequent water-escapes from the weather
clerk's department. Shops are heavily
draped in furs, velvets, blanket coats and
other arctic apparel in which lovely woman
will swelter at the races. An orgy of hat
trying-on is one of the most instructive
spectacles in the hinterland of our expensive
emporiums just now. Millinery of the
“smart” species is, or ought to be, a joy to
all beholders when it is balanced like a small
church steeple on a lady with a head like a
water-melon. Some of the new hats climb
to an altitude of several feet or so above
motor-car level.
The Bulletin’s own “Hop” leaves in
the gigantic Niagara for Vancouver and
U.S. on a holiday scamper before this
reaches you. About the middle of the trip
he’ll renew his acquaintance with his native
State Ohio, where the Hopkins family
flourishes in the land.
The literary and artistic stall at the
Shakspeare festival is going to be a wild
and whirling example of all sizes and shapes
of woman journalist, heavily disguised as
Portias and Nerissas. You will know the
Portia half by its legal red robes and the
fountain pen behind its listening ear. The
raven garb and generally hurried expression
of anything left over from the inky way is
likely to be a round dozen of Nerissas.
Major J. C. Waine and his son, Dr. J. G.
of that ilk (Harry Lauder will be able to
explain what “ilk” really means) have been
speeding up and down to Kosciusko to see
how the rest of the Waine family is enjoy-
ing itself on that breezy hilltop. The latter
will shortly descend to sea level after spend-
ing the hot end of the summer amongst the
higher thoughts and altitudes.
Placards inviting the elect to an At
Home on the Australia are tearing through
the penny post. Boats are timed to leave
the Man-o’-War Steps on April 21 at 8.45
p.m. Carriages may be ordered for 2 a.m.
Trams may be caught at your own risk with
the aid of a fleet pair of Shanks’ ponies,
but a great deal depends on whether you
have the extra coin required by the in-
creased-fare regulations. Some people take
an absurdly serious view of these new regu-
lations, by the way. “You only get the
length of yourself for 9d. now,” said a short
person to me the other day.
At the Australasian Massage Association
annual meeting in the B.M.A. rooms, the
president, Dr. Dansey, addressed the com-
pany on the “ethics of massage.” This re-
lates to the etiquette to be observed by the
masseur or masseuse (these definitions in
the gender of the person who thumps you
for the good of your health are quite a large
mouthful), towards the patient and the
doctor. The meeting, which was a big one,
listened respectfully to the medical oration,
and nine new apostles of the scientific art of
hitting you hard in the right place were
handed diplomas.
A well-known civil servant in the N.S.W.
Short of Trucks Department passed out
suddenly last w T eek. This was the much-
esteemed Controller of Stores, Mr. John
Parry. He motored up to Kosciusko with
Mr. Winn, of the big softgoods firm, Winn,
Ltd. Then he died suddenly, soon after his
arrival.
A party of Amurkans who are hurrying
round the earth for pleasure poised on their
Saratogas hereabouts before rushing off to
Maoriland. The much-travelled quartet
consist of Mr. and Mrs. G. B. McKee and
the Misses Roberts and Moore. After
swarming over the southern half of the
Dominion they will dash through the North
Island and hurry home to the star-spangled
banner via Honolulu.
The Dickens Society, which meets about
once a month, to have a joyful rally round
the shades of Pickwick, Sam Weller, Uriah
Heap, Seth Pecksniff, and other immortals,
is much concerned about the remains of the
late Edward Bulwer Lytton Dickens, the
famous novelist’s son. Edward is sup-
posed to have been buried near Moree. But
the place is oblivion, so far as the society
knows at present. There is a hunger to
put up a tombstone and otherwise show the
departed a little attention for the sake of his
celebrated parent. No search party has set
forth in the quest, but if anyone can tear
off half a yard of reliable information, it
will be welcome.
Lady Patey, who has been vigorously inter-
viewed since her arrival here, artlessly quoted
Lady Poore once or twice. This is much
the same thing as letting a small official kit-
ten out of the' bag. One Admiralty lady,
being human, is quite likely to put another
Admiralty missus up to things and give her
a few useful tips. But the newcomer has to
go through the mill herself, and she has to
keep as free from prejudices that may or may
not have been inspired—as possible.
Commissioner Kempster, of Rhodesia, is
travelling through our pastoral industries
with his private secretary, Mr. Cooke. Kemp-
ster, of Rhodesia, slipped in to this port in
such a quiet, unobtrusive manner that he was
a dark horse to the general public till the
news fled gradually round that a mys-
terious stranger, unarmed but not alone,
was peering into the Closer Settle-
ment movement —what there is of it
? n this State. He comes to see
things in flocks and herds and fatted farmers,
also, to study the bee, the rabbit and the con-
gestion. Chairman Sendall, of the Closer Set-
tlement Board, has taken the stranger by the
hand, and put him in the way of things.
Minister for Agriculture Trefld has also
given the Kempster tour a push. Just now
the traveller is sorting out his ideas of the
lowing herd on E. R. White’s dairy farms,
somewhere in the Muswellbrook district.
From there the Man from Rhodesia hurries
to Tamworth, and petrols to the Peel River
and the Byron Bay butter factory.
Australia is evidently leaning to the fore
as a place the British official no longer al-
ludes to as Java Major or New Holland or
Botany Bay. In proof of this, is the visit
of an Under-Secretary who is bustling over
the outskirts of this continent, with the im-
pressive name of Hartmann Wolfgang just.
There’s a prosperous German merchant atmo-
sphere about this nomenclature, and the
owner of it is a son of one Heinrich Just, of
Bristol.
Sydney is going through its annual
Easter rush, when hotels coin money by the
bushel, and the boarding-house lady turns a
haughty mien towards wayfarers who meekly
search for a vacancy in the coal cellar or
a corner in the attic chimney. The city is
so full that there is hardly room to squeeze
in the new vexation —I mean taxation.
The Show will open in a vice-regal and
strictly official manner, as usual, a day after
the judging. Before this meets your gaze,
Arini, the big Easter display of fat stock
will be bellowing round the Show grounds
tied up in blue or red ribbon, and the usual
and inevitable luncheon speeches will
meander round the State Excellency.
Parson John Ferguson, of the Scotchby-
terian Kirk at St. Stephen’s, is packing up
for a holiday trip to the other side.
Everyone of the same name—in business
circles,. anyhow—is not eager to claim kin-
ship with the C. E. Jacomb who squirted
vinegar and gall at Australia in an alleged
literary effort. Jacomb, Son and Co., of
Moorgate House, in the street of that name
(London) have hurriedly denied “any busi-
ness relationship whatever” with the undis-
tinguished author. Is this the firm that has
a limb in the New Hebrides?
“Joseph and His Brethren” are still gad-
ding round the tents of Shechem at the
Royal. The scene painter has built up a
fine background of desert, evening star,
Egyptian palace and gorgeous sky. The
brethren are heavily robed in the early
Israelitish fashion, and have the general
appearance of Petticoat Lane on a bush-
ranging expedition. Jacob is a sturdy old
patriarch who must have been too busy
smoothing the tempers of his innumerable
family to have any time to get into the wool
business with good financial results,
/uleika (Ethel Warwick) —a lady of whom
the Scripture records nothing half so bad
as we are accustomed to hear any day in the
Small Debts Court or the Divorce Court or
the District Court or even the Dog-Tax
Department, though the world is accustomed
to take quite a serious view of her —waves
arms like long, white semaphores over the
head of Joseph, who retires in his shirt
garment and forgets to slam the door when
he runs away. Perhaps there were no doors
in Egypt.
Just back from the other side is a
Christchurch (M.L.) medico, and his wife
and kindergarten. They’re the Talbot fam-
ily, of that pancake city.
The N.S.W. woman poultry-farmer is ad-
vancing with a steady tramp of No. S boots
(not that she wears eight of them at a time),
and the cackle of her egg-laying competi-
tions. is loud in the land. The recent demon-
stration at Hawkesbury College, in which
the prowess of Mrs. White Leghorn and
Mrs. Black Orpington routed the enemy with
great slaughter, showed that an increasing
number of women are getting into the hen-
coop business. Prize winners Mrs. Scays-
brook, of Gosford, and Miss Vaughan, of
Crabbe’s Creek, likewise Mrs. E. J. Hunt,
of Berowra, and Miss Hodkin, of Minto,
who also kept their end up, are included in
quite a rush of female poultry-farmers who
demonstrated this year.
The wedding of John Manning, a son of
Knight William Patrick Manning, and
Muriel Watson, the youngest daughter of
the late moneyed James Watson, M.L.C.,
occurred in St. Mark’s, Darling Point, the
other day. This knot-tying brings the W. P.
Manning family into more or less close con-
nection with a stack of N.S.W. folks whose
roots go fairly deep in the local soil. One
of the late Mr. James Marks’ daughters
married a son of Watson, M.L.C. Mrs.
Stuart Osborne is a daughter of the same
departed and gilt-edged citizen.
The Sydney Liedertafel concert last week,
with Conductor Arundel Orchard in charge,
got through its programme with that stiff
attention to business which produces a per-
formance of respectable and dull proportions.
If gome Liedertafel gentleman would
so far forget himself at one of these affairs
as to suddenly bang the piano with his feet,
or would rush up to the organ and violently
kick the atmosphere from that commanding
summit, it would make an agreeable diver-
sion. There’s a pale, drab feeling about a
present-day Liedertafel concert which can
only be exorcised by loaning it for a few
months to some infuriated foreigner armed
with a baton, who would engage a few of
the first tenors and second bass citizens in
mortal combat. Pending this amicable
arrangement, said citizens will continue not
to over-exert themselves in song. Con-
ductor Orchard’s arrangement of Schubert’s
“The Mariner to the Dioscuri” was one of
the most attractive items on the programme.
The new taxation, which its political god-
fathers humbly admit they don’t understand,
but which they may comprehend better when
their own bills come along, is going to drive
ordinary persons into a state of frenzy. No-
body seems to know exactly how much it
will cost, them if they pop their heads out
of the window, or forget to wipe their feet
on the doormat, or how many stamps they’re
supposed to lick by way of extras between
dewy dawn, when the rooster hails the orb
of day, and the silent, poetic dusk, when the
large plump sun slopes steeply to the west
and the ploughman homeward plods his weary
way. (Some more poetry is unavoidably
crowded out.) The country visitor, now
surging round the city for the great Horns
and Hoof display, dives into his pocket every
time the tram conductor leans heavily over
the laps of the persons near the door and
demands “More Pares.” A big, sun-tanned
Hayseed, who wasn’t taking any risks over
the second section taxation the other day,
scraped his trousers pocket for everything
he had about him in the way of cash. It
was a goodly heap, and he held it in a palm
the size of a small dinner plate, and pushed
it towards the collector. “Take your bit out
of it, mate,” says Hayseed, “I can’t keep
count o’ these sections that bump into
ha’pence when they turn a corner.”
The Australian tourist is still moving
about this map on his way to the Massey
Dominion or other scenic adventures. Mr.
and Mrs. Whitcomb and Miss, of Mackay,
Queensland, hurried in at Sydney’s
back door and out at the front so recently
that their footprints are still visible
on the beeswaxed oilcloth of the corridors
of our fathers. They dashed off to Mel-
bourne to throw their baggage aboard a
steamer bound for the Bluff, where the vast
Stewart Island oyster lies in wait for
strangers, and looks like an undressed in-
fant about to be photographed. Then they
travel north to see the hard-worked geysers
foam at the mouth.
The annual meeting of the Alexandra
Hospital for Children drew a goodly gather-
ing of enthusiastic oldsters and youngsters
who fleece their friends for the cause. Sec-
retary Clarence Moss, who can draw cot
subsidies from nether millstones, read a few
yards of annual report. Dr. Clubbe made
some remarks suitable to the occasion, and
dropped a small cracker, so to speak, on any
members of the nursing staff who showed a
rampageous spirit when they worked over-
time —in consequence of unforeseen circum-
stances. Ex-M.L.A. W. H. Wood dropped
a few words of sympathy on the search for
cash, which is progressing favorably. Hon.
treasurer Pratt showed that it is quite as
blessed to receive as to give when you’re
hunting for hospital coin.
The trouser skirt, according to a fashion
journal, is making its unobtrusive way into
the French ballroom. “I saw one,” says an
American writer, ‘‘of black satin, and very
inconspicuous. In fact, the only thing that
drew my attention to it all was the tasselled
ornaments of gold thread which were placed
above the ankles.”
In Hassall’s reminiscences, the profound
belief of Parson Sam Marsden in the
efficacy of “flogging out the devil” is
curiously illustrated. The scarcity of
women in the early days of the
querulous infant colony influenced the
authorities to allow emancipists and others
to choose their legal ladies amongst some
of the female prisoners of the better sort.
Marsden, driving through a certain country
district some time after one of these queer
weddings, pulled up at a settler’s house and
asked him how his matrimonial plunge had
turned out. The settler poured forth a tale
of woe as to the backslidings of the lady he
had picked at random from a number who
had been trotted out for his inspection. The
liev. Samuel, descending from his gig, called
the offender forth, and soundly walloped her
with his horsewhip, admonishing her the
while as to her good fortune in being so
happily married. A year or so later he
called that way again, and asked how the
lady was now conducting herself, and was
told she was the best wife in the district.
Perhaps she had simply become so bad that
her husband dared not, for the sake of his
life, say how bad she was.
ltotorua (M.L.) caught a good supply of
Australian tourists this summer, and in the
present month the season is only slackening
off by inches. Colonel Benson, of Adelaide;
the T. M. Hudsons, of Malla (N.S.W.) ;
Captain and Mrs. Medlyn, who are S’Aus-
tralian folks ; Mr. and Miss May, and Mrs.
and Miss Caulfield, of this township, have
been sniffing triple extract of sulphur in the
lava country.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.
“Moana”: There is great gladness just
now in Maoriland amongst the “limb” that
delights in arresting the wrong man and that
would rather run in the hopeless drunk than
prevent . murder. The police are being
rushed with more salary all round. Remu-
neration is flying at them. Superintendents
are to get from £460 to £520; inspectors.
£3BO to £440; sub-ditto, £330 to £360;
senior-sergeants, 14/6 to 16/-; ordinary
ditto, 12/- to 13/6; ordinary “Johns,” 9/-
to 11/- (the latter to be the final reward
after walking pavements and moving
on chronic post-leaners for 20 years!),
and detectives, 11/6 to 17/6. The
Government explains that the increases
are designed to attract better men ; but the
Opposition says that this is election year
and that the idea is to attract better votes.
An automatic soldier has been invented
by a Danish engineer. It is in the form of a
steel cylinder which is embedded in the
ground. The fighting power is set in motion
by wireless. When the device opens the
campaign an inner cylinder rises to a height
of sft. and dispassionately surveys the land-
scape. It contains an automatic gun and
400 rounds of ammunition, and will open
fire when required over a fairly wide radius.
It can be controlled from any distance that
wireless will operate over, and is completely
fearless, in the nature of things. It is
claimed that a few hundred of these steel
warriors could defend a position against the
most powerful attack of human or live meat
infantry. To stop the hail of lead that they
would pour forth the cylinders would have
to be smashed up, which would take some
pluck and considerable doing. Of course
the Dane’s contrivance would be quite use-
less in attack. Also it would be of little
value for defence, if the enemy were so un-
sportsmanlike as to edge round it and ap-
proach from an unexpected quarter. But
if the automatic soldier with the cold, alli-
gator eye was planted in a circle he would
have no rear and no unexpected quarter.
The only danger then would be that the
enemy might pass him 10 miles away, and
burn a lot of cities and farms before the
speechless concern could be uprooted and
trucked to his new field of usefulness. Still
with all drawbacks there seem to be pos-
sibilities in the matter. If the machine
could be qualified to walk about, and fitted
with cheering and flag-waving apparatus,
and so arranged that it would consider a
reasonable cash offer from the enemy, it
would have a stupendous future. A machine
that could thoughtfully scratch its head and
consider a reasonable cash offer from the
enemy would revolutionise warfare.


THE LATEST
TRIUMPH.
ƒh
4-h.p. Triumph Motor Cycles
1914 MODELS.
The acme of excellence in motor-cycle construction is reached in these
latest models of the Triumph.
They are indeed a veritable triumph of skill and workmanship —they
feature the most up-to-date improvements for the comfort and con-
venience of the rider.
Standard Models
Free Engine Models
Three Speed Models
You should certainly see these splendid machines —Cylinder Measure-
ments are 85 x 97 mm. —Handle Bar Control. Patent Spring Forks,
Variable Pulley and every possible fitment that tends to satisfaction.
For ease in handling—comfort—speed—reliability they are absolutely
unrivalled.
Call and see them in our show rooms.
Country men in Sydney for Easter should call and inspect these up-
to-date motor-cycles. ,
If you can’t call we will send you our Catalogue BM36 —with full
particulars and prices.
BENNETT t BARBELL Ltd.
Agents for Triumph, Rudge-Whitworth & New Hudson Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of the B. & B. MOTOR CYCLES,
124=132 CASTLEREAG H STREET, SYDNEY.
VICE-REGAL
df
JEWELLERS-
BY APPOINTMENT.
Dainty Wedding Gifts.
A new shipment of After Dinner Coffee Cups and After-
noon Tea Cups, in Royal Doulton, Royal Worcester,
Coalport and Crown Derby, made up in Sets of Six, with
Six Silver Spoons, in Morocco Cases, is now on display
at our showrooms.
HARDY BROS LZB
SIX “ROYAL WORCESTER” COFFEE CUPS AND
SAUCERS, with Six Solid Silver Spoons, in Case,
£4/8/-.
A Very Large Variety Always Kept In Stock.
Write For Free, Illustrated Catalogue.
HARDY BROS. LTD.,
VICE REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter Street, Sydney; 118 Queen Street;'Brisbane.
AND AT LONDON.
Why Be Sad or Downcast ?
Become acquainted at once with the good, wholesome literature as published in
THE CELEBRATED
BOOKSTALL SERIES of AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
A Course of reading these Books will dispel all gloom and brighten your daily lot.
Price 1/- each, or 1/1 Post Free.
Write for Complete Lists.
JUST PUBLISHED!
“The Knight of the Motor Launch”
(By ARTHUR H. ADAMS)
is a young 1 man of amorous propensities, always on the lookout for adventure, and in his cruises
around Sydney Harbor he meets more than he bargains for. The various episodes are excellently
told, and the conversations are reminiscent of the “Dolly Dialogues, which is saying a lot.
“ ScmtH Seal SHipmates/* By JOHN Arthur BARRY.
Very few old salts knew the South Seas better than Captain Barry, and few could equal him in the
spinning of yarns. The yarns contained in this book are personal experiences, bearing the impress
of truth on the face of them, and therein lies their value and their virtue.
The “ BOOKSTALL ” Series. Price 1/- each ; Postage Id.
DETECTIVE STORIES.
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer
By Randolph Bedford
Übique By Clarence W. Martin
The Mystery of the Boxing Contest
By Bert James
BOOKS ON BUSHRANGING.
Dan Kelly, Outlaw By Ambrose Pratt
Three Years with Thunderbolt
By Ambrose Pratt
The Outlaws of Weddin Range
By Ambrose Pratt
John Yane, Bushranger By Chas. White
Short-lived Bushrangers By Chas. White
Gentleman Jack By Don Delaney
The Captain of the Gang By Don Delaney
The Devil’s Nightcap By Lancelot Booth
The Convict Pugilist By Geo. Cockerill
The Spell of the Bush By John X. Cameron
HUMOROUS BOOKS.
The Missing Link By Edward Dyson
Tommy, the Hawker By Edward Dyson
Benno —-And Some of the Push
By Edward Dyson
Fact’ry ’Ands By Edward Dyson
Scotty Mac, Shearer By R. S. Tait
How McDougall Topped the Score, and Other
Verses By Thomas E. Spencer
The Spring Cleaning (by Mrs. Bridget
McSweeney) By Thomas E. Spencer
The Surprising Adventures of Mrs. Bridget
McSweeney By Thomas E. Spencer
Why Doherty Died .... By Thomas E. Spencer
The Haunted Shanty .... By Thomas E. Spencer
That Droll Lady By Thomas E.- Spencer
The Bulletin Reciter
Bill’s Idees By A. G. Stephens (“The
Bookfellow”)
AUSTRALIAN HISTORICAL
ROMANCES.
The Barb of an Arrow By Roy Bridges
By His Excellency’s Command By Roy Bridges
Mrs. Barrington By Roy Bridges
SPORTING BOOKS.
A Rogue’s Luck By Arthur Wright
The Mare With the Silver Hoof ... By Bob Allen
Eros! Eros Wins! By F. Agar
Rung In By Arthur Wright
In Racing Silk By Gerald R. Baldwin
SELECTION STORIES.
By STEELE RUDD.
On Our Selection
Our New Selection
Stocking Our Selection
On An Australian Farm
The Dashwoods
The Poor Parson
Duncan McClure
Sandy’s Selection
Back at Our Selection
From Selection to City
For Life
Dad in Politics
The Book of Dan
By SUMNER LOCKE.
Mum Dawson —Boss.
The Dawsons’ Uncle George.
BOOKS OF ROMANCE AND
ADVENTURE.
The Double Abduction By H. E. Bloxham
A Man of Sympathy By Harry Tighe
The Sign of the Serpent .... By J. H. M. Abbott
The Trader By Cecil Ross Johnson
Stella Sothern By Ivan Archer ltosenblum
The Recipe for Rubber By Ralph Stock
The Bathers By W. G. Henderson
Love and the Aeroplane By John Sandes
Rocky Section By Sydney Partrige
Tom Pagdin, Pirate By E. J. Brady
The Luck of the Native Born
By Arthur John Barry
Caloola By Clement Pratt
Bindawalla By Thomas E. Spencer
Base Brands By H. M. Somer
Chandler of Corralinga By R. J. Cassidy
Billy Hayes, Buccaneer By Louis Becke
pr Write for Complete List.
ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
And all Branches
and Booksellers.
hf
General Management for Australasia—
Stephen Court, 77=79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


PITH POLO
HELMETS.
i / | ' \
Farmer’s Pith Helmets, as illustrated - are
exactly as worn by all the leading English and
American Polo Players. The crown is well venti-
lated with four rubber vents, and is fitted with
patent protector at back of head, and adjustable
chin strap. Combines exceptional strength and
lightness.
Color, white only.
Price - 27,6 each.
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market & George Streets*
PACKED SECURELY FOR SAFETY
IN TRANSIT.
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
ƒhdhf
ParfCin)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent:
A*o« SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open lor the reception of Quests.
_z
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 6, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
There was a special private view of the
precious loan exhibition of antiques at Fed-
eral Government House on the morning of
opening day. Indoors the committee
was hurrying about putting finishing
touches and wrangling politely over cushions
and draperies, while out-of-doors chauffeurs
shouted at the drivers of furniture vans and
were howled at furiously in return.
The Denman lady fled to and fro with her
arms full of things, while his Ex., who had a
steady job cataloguing, nearly forgot him-
self and put his pen behind his ear in the
approved clerical manner. Presently Secre-
tary Mary Cholmondeley gave up the at-
tempt to keep the lady of the show auto-
graphing catalogues, and went off to gloat
over Fawkner’s chair. “Lady Denman may
not think much of this old thing, but tee
do,” and she caressed the seat of history.
It was bought in ’69 at the sale of Fawk-
ner’s goods. The Americans probably think
they invented the penny-in-the-slot device.
Nothing of the kind. Mrs. Blackwood is
showing two old Scotch snuff-boxes made of
brass which open only when a penny is
dropped into a tube. I guess they must have
been designed to prevent servants pilfering,
or to get even with cadging friends. Melba
has contributed some old French furniture,
and there is a bell out of a Scotch kirk
dedicated to “Combell”—the old form of
“Campbell.” Napoleon must have possessed
several shiploads of crockery and kept a
special breed of non-breaking servant, be-
cause nearly every rich dame hereabouts
seems to possess one of his dishes or cups.
His pistols are also on view. Miss Stubbs
has a flute on show, and Dr. Helen Sexton,
who worked very hard arranging the show,
has lent a Mexican brazier which provides
an artistic contrast for one of the Spanish
variety sent along by the Creswell dame.
The Maxixe will presently rush in where
the Tango has ceased to tread —at least so
say the people who pretend to know about
such matters. Paris Cafd tried a Maxixe
Tea on Thursday afternoon, and got its
tables surrounded by well-dressed unem-
ployed. Men in unusual profusion felt the
need, of tea. Dr. Mclnerney, for instance,
sat in a good place at the head of the room
and kept a quizzical eye on the contortions.
The Paris has an orchestra platform at its
northern end, and it might be better, per-
haps, to let the dancing devotees go up the
steps and keep the tables to the lower room.
On Thursday the earnest hoppers bumped
against hurrying waiters and threw them and
their cargoes off their course. Some day a
waiter will be stove in and go down with
both hands in an assorted nightmare of
drinks and cream-puffs. A new waltz was
also sprung on the curious crowd of
watchers; but the short and the fat sighed
hopelessly, for it needs agile, willowy per-
sons, who are ready to back-kick and point
a toe at the third beat. A graceful. girl-
pupil of Jennie Brenan’s gyrated in this
dance, and also demonstrated the Maxixe.
An onlooking Frenchman in a corner re-
marked thoughtfully, “Ah-h! it is no rela-
tion to the Parisian cafe Maxixe of six
years ago.” His immediate neighbors agreed
vaguely, and privately hoped that they were
not committing themselves. After the
dancing, Noel Geddes attacked the white
teeth of the piano in such brilliant fashion
that people had to interrupt their tea-drink-
ing and gossip, every now and then, in order
to listen to him.
Olive Siegenberg became Mrs. Will Car-
roll, on Thursday last, in the usual manner,
with the help of parson Hennel. William
is the son of the Hursts, of Hornsey Estate,
and relatives came down to the wedding as
the Assyrian is said to have come down on
the fold. Uncle Lobb, who squats for a liv-
ing, was accompanied by other Lobbs from
the far north of the Ma State, and weighed
down with precious presents for the bride,
who looked handsome, inside the usual mos-
quito net, when she murmured “I will,”
under a wedding bell suspended in her
mother s house. The Carrolls got away
eventually, and then the guests listened more
or less to a Winter Garden concert and the
pop and hiss of champagne. Pianist Goll,
who dropped in after his recital, reported
smilingly that he had had “a great house.”
So he likewise was happy.
The Orama last week carried away Cap-
ln, Bertram Chambers (late commandant
°.,,^ e Naval, College) and his handsome
wite. The pair made many friends during
theii three years’ stay, and sundry farewell
functions happened to them in Melbourne.
J-bey are both insatiable relic-hunters, and
the Captain brought his knowledge to bear
on the arrangement of plates and things in
the china department of the Denman Loan
Exhibition.
Governor Latrobe’s condemned house
which will make way for an extension of the
Australian boot industry, was duly orated
over last Friday afternoon by Governor
Stanley, Bigjohn Forrest and several other
people. Lady Stanley sat behind a large
bouquet of scarlet dahlias, grown by Mrs.
Elliot in her part of the Latrobean dwelling.
The old lady presented the blooms herself
with a graceful little speech, and seemed as
if she wanted to pat the recipient on the
shoulder. Mr. Smithers-Gadd (a musical
name that!), chief of the Old Pioneers’ As-
sociation, mounted guard over the old
wooden gate; but the uninvited public (con-
found them!) swarmed over the boot fac-
tory fence, listened to the attempted elo-
quence and supplied hearty cheers. It was
a great day for the oldest inhabitant, who
wandered round and was listened to with
the greatest respect. Bedggood, the con-
quering bootman, offered to hand over the
house if someone would provide a suitable
site, otherwise he would cart it away and
rebuild it on a Hawthorn paddock.
P. M. Dewar, whose name is in many
strong men’s mouths, arrived from England
last week and was rushed off to lunch at the
Vienna by a score of cheering men-friends.
He has descended on this country in order
to allow George Wright, general manager
for Australia, to take a holiday trip
round the world. “Dewar” Theil took
the opportunity to say good-bye during
the meal. But he is merely taking
his wife and pretty flapper daughter round
to Sydney for the Easter races.
Last Thursday, in the sleeping apartment
of the Leg. Council, State Governor Stanley
made a few unnecessary remarks to the un-
necessary conference of State Righters. I
really don’t know why these people get to-
gether at all, but have an idea it is for the
purpose of getting other people to entertain
them. When there is nothing else doing,
they accumulate in a solemn bunch and ask
one another how much the Commonwealth
has been “encroaching”?
On Thursday evening, the State
Government, by way of making things
merry, gave a party. The House
or Barn blossomed with electric light, and
the potted palm stood up in all its beauty,
while unsymmetrical people stood round and
killed time in an elegant fashion. Music
came from three different directions. Doris
Madden played in the main hall; a J. and
N. Tait concert raged in the Assembly
lounge; and an orchestra did its individual
best in the corridor behind the Speaker’s
chair. It all mixed up beautifully and
reminded me of the side-show section at a
country race-meeting. A half-moon of Parlia-
mentary figureheads did a grand united hand-
shake. The massive and imposing Frank
Madden dame had the tall McKinnon missus
on one side, and Willie Watt’s wife, dimpled
and fair-haired, on the other. Mrs. Murray
stood close to her John to keep him awake.
Donald McKinnon lurked behind them, and
Watt himself (as one might say “Napoleon
himself”) seized the guests’ hands first and
waved them along the dreadful line with the
air of a shopwalker at sale time. The visi-
tors have brought along their wives and
daughters—so many of the latter that the
place looked as much like a garden of youth
as a cabbage-patch of old age. After the
formal reception was over, the lounges were
filled with a fluttering crowd of pink and
white-frocked girls, some of whom were actu-
ally shy. I noticed that a few incurable
blushers had to be gently shoved by dad or
mum before they would face the space be-
tween the door and the firing-line of hostesses.
One younsr beauty with a dazzling complexion
was picked out by observers as a Tasmanian.
She really hailed from far-North Bananaland.
The Stanley lady, in silver tulle and clinging
black, arrived at nine o’clock with a starry
husband and a trio of Gentleman Helps, who
pranced in like a well-drilled corps de ballet.
Justice Barton, of the High Court, attended,
and Gilruth made one more appearance, be-
fore going North again like the birds in the
song. Butler, of S.A., convoyed a distin-'
guished-looking wife, draped in black and de-
corated with violets. Mrs., Ivy Deakin-
Brooks wore the, very-'latest shade of hair
(she has worn it all her life, but it happens to
be fashionable just now), and stood shoulder
to shoulder with her tall husband. Mrs.
Adamson arrived in a marvellous wrap of
woven white beads and said she “felt quite
better, thanks,” after her sensational tumble
on State Government House stairs, on the.
night of the extinguished dinner-party. One'
visitor was so enveloped in brocade that she
wasn’t recognisable. Mrs. Joseph Cook in-
habited lavender and lace, and Bigjohn For-
rest looked charming in a Court uniform
which was just big enough to contain him.
He escorted George Turner’s wife to supper,
his own dame being absent in Westralia just
now, and he having an arm to spare.
State Governor Stanley and his dame
gave their first party on Wednesday last.
First there was a dinner to the visiting
Premiers, and later on a reception, so that
people could come and poke them in thfe*
ribs and see how well they had been fed.
In the middle of the judging the lights
played a nasty April Fool joke on all hands
by flickering out. The house, the garden,
and the whole suburb, in fact, were plunged
into complete darkness. You could have
cut the dark into slices with a spade and
loaded a dray with it. Late guests couldn’t
see their way in, and the early guests, who
had caught the worm and eaten the bird,
bleated for information and illumination.
The garden and shrubberies in front are
very, thick, and navigation was horrible for
the incoming stragglers, who stumbled to-
ward the house—or where they suspected
it was hiding. Presently a dull, useless
glow was observed in the windows, but the
entrance was a black cave or blot. Two
huge devils or orderlies darted out and in,
continuously hurrying the blinking and be-
wildered late-comers inside by grasping their
arms and helping them up the steps, where
they handed them over to shadowy Gentle-
men Helps. Footmen with candles stuck in
beer bottles showed the way upstairs to the
funereal cloak-room. It was ghostly and like
late bedtime on the Day of Judgment.
The pretty little Stanley lady was on the
verge of tears, and her distress was charm-
ing. She had a wreath of gold laurel leaves
in her hair, and her dress was built of plush
and gold threads woven into a brocade of
huge roses. Then there were rose-colored
slippers with gold heels. Bigjohn Forrest
loomed up like an unlighted ship at
anchor; but Prime Minister Joe Cook
sped to and fro and did nothing at
tremendous speed. Mrs. Cook’s diamonds
helped to locate her, and her eyeglasses
flashed vigilantly at intervals. Mrs. Carty
Salmon fortunately was wearing open-work
black lace on dazzling white shoulders—so
she was visible, Mrs. Harkness, from
N.S.W., was a grey ghost.
At motor time a mob of bewildered hus-
bands stood at the foot of the branched
stairs and hissed anxiously over the ban-
isters at the procession of shadow-women
descending. “Where’s mai husband?”
bleated one lost ewe. “Oh, grab any hus-
band !” interjected some old maid, who
wanted to be mistaken for a Bold Girl.
“Anyone minus a husband has her chance of
getting one to-night.” You could feel the
married women glaring at her.
Good-byes were said to a ghostly host and
hostess. The Governor smiled a sad, dim,
wistful smile of farewell. He knew that
later on he’d have to soothe his disappointed
wife, and that she wouldn’t be soothed any-
how. The only human beings present who
didn’t seem to mind the dark were the police
on duty. But then the police are used to
being left completely in the dark.
Lady Stanley possesses some precious
furniture well worth the trouble of dragging
across the world. In spite of the murkiness
of the candle party, last week, some of these
things shone seductively in their gloomy
corners. A French screen with a gold frame
and Watteau paintings simpered darkly at
the head of the stairs, while in the cloak-
room stood an old French bed and Louis
Something-or-other cabinet of walnut inlaid
with precious metals. The one or two things
that were visible whetted the curiosity of
those interested in old sticks, and they are
hoping for an early invitation when the
light is good so that they may examine the
rare old trifles.
The nurses will have a good innings
when Lady Munro-Ferguson arrives. Nurs-
ing is her particular hobby, and her dutiful
husband has battled in Parliamentary
fashion for the British nurses for years
past. He it was who shepherded the Bill
for the registration of nurses by the State.
Percy Shelton, the young Collins-street
medico who has just put forth his brass
plate, is engaged to Mrs. George Hine’s
daughter Ivy. Percy is one of the sons of
Mrs. Shelton, of Toorak, so there was con-
siderable fuss and rushing to and fro when
the announcement was made.
The Plaza opened its doors of frivolity to
dancing and skating people last week, and the
motor rush round the dangerous South Yarra
railway corner was something to. remember.
There happened to be a cool snap on, conse-
quently unemployed people with money felt
like taking a little exercise. Lesly Madden,
who dances and skates like a plump fairy,
was in the lead. She had Mrs. Davidson
as chaperone or bottle-holder. (Or perhaps
it would be more correct to say that Mrs.
Davidson was in Lesly’s corner?) Heiress
Marie Hall showed up in smart clothes, after
her coming-of-age trip abroad. (If you have
money, you can always find something to
celebrate.) The Innes-Noad girls, who have
come over from Sydney and are installed in
a Toorak-road house, charged into the inelge
with an attendant train of well-brushed
youths. Cicely, the engaged of the family,
bewailed the enforced absence of fianc6
Geoff Stuart, who is the foremost dancer in
moneyed circles. Geoff got a fortnight’s
leave from his ship in Sydney, and then had
to take it out in influenza. The Donald
fMcKinnons, bulwarks of Prahran and keel-
plates of South Yarra, came on from the din-
ner at State Government House, and so
missed the darkness which descended on the
vice-regal den later in the evening, when the
electric light failed. The dwindling band of
Pinschofs joined forces with the cousinly
Pfaffs, and arrived in a hollow square.
Everybody was in ecstasies about the floor,
and most people were struck with the decora-
tive scheme. The hall is painted in a bold
black-and-white design, with brilliant red
covers for the lights, and a poster screen of
green and red between the people who regard
themselves as the pride of the market and the
other sort who are content to just be on
the earth.
Squatter Quin, having dispensed of his
fane residence at Fern Tree Gully to son-in-
law Charlie Taylor, has taken his wife and
three unmarried daughters off to Europe via
Japan. Daughter Tarella, who was named
after pa’s biggest sheep studio, and married
squatter lorn Daskein, of Bananaland
has been loading her trunks with the latest
chiffons of Sydney and Melbourne before
getting back to the bush with hubby. Also
she has been discussing the publication of
the new book she has in view.
Dr. W. G. Price, who has labored hard
tj n ar^ls^lc Mly to bring Melbourne’s Town
Hall _ organ into popular esteem, is now
drawing the attention of some ot the naicest
people to the new instrument at St. John’s.
Toorak. Price’s recitals after evensong are
favorably mentioned in the best drawing-
rooms, and a recent Sunday morning’s per-
formance at St. John’s was under the special
patronage of the Gov.-General.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
In accordance with our usual custom we have
turned our birthstains—l mean our drought trials —to
good. The effect of the recent water famine has
been to drive maddened garden owners to bore-sinking
the sinkers now anticipate that they will never again
' the material for a thorough, all-over wash.
, Dr. Gertrude Halley has bought the Sewells’ house
at Payneham, from which fact I deduce that she means
to settle here. The train of reasoning is somewhat
involved and difficult, but you will see that I am
right before long.
The Inter-State Polo matches begin at Plympton
neict week. Some of the Victorians have already arrived
Mr. Keith Calvert, Mr. Urqhart, and Mr. and Mrs.
Affleck are staying at the South Australian. Also
the It. A. D. Hoods and the Claude Palmers are due
on Sunday. Several of the Denman ponies will be
Australia. Both the Downers and
Mr. H. Law Smith brought one apiece, and Lord Den-
man presented Greygown to the captain of the local
«■ So you can imagine the excitement.
fhe renovated Queen Adelaide Club intends to enter-
tain Lady Galway on her arrival. There are few
notabilities of the female sex that evade this cere-
mony.
Mr. E. M. Luxmoore is to be this year’s master
of the Adelaide Hounds. Till recently he was
better known as a swimmer and oarsman than a
hunting man, but what of it, so long as he doesn’t
fall off his mount ? I haven’t a complete history of
his career by me, but I know that he is an old St.
Peter’s boy, that his mother was one of the Hays
who used to own Linden and Mount Brecken, and
that novelist Willie Hay, the author of “Stifled
Laughter,” etc., is a cousin of his.
The Ramsay divorce halted or jibbed or some-
thing on Thursday, after 28 days of examination,
cross-examination and the rest. And now the jury
has disagreed on one point and the chances are that
the \Vhble business will need to be gone over again.
Is it necessary for me to mention that the parties
have plenty of money?
Adam Lindsay Gordon was discussed, in the usual
spirit of veneration, at the Old Residents’ dinner at
Mount Gambier on Wednesday last. Mr. Alfred
Hayes, who lived at the Mount in ’59, gives credit
for bringing news of the wrecked Admella to Mr.
Peter Begg, who lived near Lake Bonney. Gordon,
he says, did not arrive at the Mount till six weeks
after) the wreck. He also indicated the exact spot
where Gordon made his famous leap. It was about
160yds. south of the monument on the lake-side, ac-
cording to the aged purveyor of oral history.
Sir Hartmann Just has been learning all about
Australia, like mad, in the last few days. It is
anticipated that he will have mastered the subject
within a fortnight, or less. Lieutenant-Governor
Way is seeing that Britain’s representative is ade-
quately nourished. The Ways, incidentally, have
issued invitations for a garden party at Government
House on April 15.
The Lavington Bonythons have booked passages
for England in the Orvieto, sailing from here on
May 15. They talk of being away for about six
months.
The Evan Kyffin Thomases have left Rutliven Man-
sions, and now inhabit their newly-purchased and
swept and garnished house on Pennington Terrace.
Theirs is one of the best sites of North Adelaide.
The late John Darling had been advised by his
doctors to go slowly, but no one had any idea that
he was really ill, and people who saw him just before
he left for Melbourne thought him perfectly well.
One of his daughters, Mrs. F. W. Young, has not
very long got through an attack of tvphoid.
The Creswell lady has arrived from Melbourne
and is staying with her mother, Mrs. Randolph Stow,
in North Adelaide.
I attach an item from my friend “Rosna,” now
in London—
The A. A. Kirkpatricks, who have just finished five
years Agent-Generailing for South Aus., gave a
• revel at the Trocadero the other day, to meet S.A.’s
new Excellencies, Sir Harry and Lady Gallway, who
proceed to the Slowly City next week. The place
was literally clothed in pale pink tulips and azaleas,
and the tea and music were equally attractive. The
heroine of the afternoon is a tall, slender, pretty
woman, who. dresses well and owns a sense of humor.
Also she appears to have fine self-control. She even
■managed to look politely eager when the usual gush-
ing female began to hand out messages to “my
people in Adelaide, whom you are sure to meet at
Government House, you know.” Regarding his new
Ex., the yarn goes that before he accepted the billet
an unassuming male walked into the South Australian
office and demanded information about the City of
Haughty Culture. He wanted to know the cost
„of motors in S.A., whether servants were gettable.
what were the eccentricities of the climate, and
wasn’t it an advantage to have a summer house in
the Hills? The officials enthused to this apparently
affluent immigrant, who smiled, and went home to
accept the Excellenceship by the next post.
By the way. the Kirkpatricks themselves are being
given farewell lunches and dinners with much regu-
larity. Mr. Whiting will keep an eye on the State’s
interests until South Aus. has stopped squabbling and
found us a new Agent-General. That is. if his eye
isn’t closed in death long beforehand. I can thor-
oughly recommend this post to anyone who has a
thirst for abuse.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


'ifi
•4 "m
0
HM
ML
ft
I
i
C
■
.
■ .;'<£•?
•'
W
mu.
>
mm
F ::"1
ft
li
!■*
H
■
.•
®B*S
-
ufee^;
JR;
j
5^
r*
f! m
r J
«
\
%
r : ;~
#•' if ; -R| ft
5
mm
li
jfts
r n
V*-
i
; ■■ ;••:
1%
ftl
*5
V-
*
m
m
■
« if
m
l
«
111
H 8 R
-
■5
m
$1
j
ns
fimrUtA*.
K * /% f
■
• * *» “«.*■— «**
x :
i sap**!^
*>»* ■
>» * s ' US ■
» % *K*
P
f#
PTI
IM
af
:
ii
C
IfcSiW
mwmi
■
r/
li
V,,.,
»|&V|
Joseph Simpson, R.B.A.
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.
KING ROBERT THE BRUCE
This Picture is the Eighth of a Series of colored Portraits of Famous Scots published by
JOHN DEWAR &P SONS, L T - Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth London


V
C'S!
[ For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
I
I. / h\
wmm
„ For
Painted
Wood
Worß
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint
removes the
dirt only
ƒhd
ďfh
fdh
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
fd
The most wonderful cleaner fn the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
•Silent Knight Engine.
SHaft Drive No Chains.
fdhfh
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t'y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,
] Sole
\ Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Leo Lear”: “Machete” (B. 12/2/’l4)
gives Torres Strait as a peculiar dividing line in
the distribution of birds. In the south of the
continent I direct attention to a stronger one. This
is at the entrance to Port Phillip, and it is stranger
because of its narrowness, and the similarity of
country and climate on either side. Yet, despite
this, many birds find the line as impassable as the
“great gulf” of Dives. The case of the rare pilot-
bird can be understood, as he is a scrub dweller,
a poor flier, and sticks to his only haunts, the Gipps-
land gullies; but the beautiful dark-green and yellow
helmeted honeyeater could easily cross the “Rip,”
and the lyre-bird might also flap over for week-ends.
Yet I’ve never heard either the distinctive coach-
whip bird, or the satin bower-bird to the west of
Cape Nepean. (Abo-scribes are warned against but-
ting in with a yellow-breasted coach-whip bird, which
isn’t a c-w.b. at: -&II. but a thickhead or whistler.)
Conversely, the Otway forests possess the rufous bristle
bird, who wouldn’t be seen with the hussies to the
east of the bay. A little farther west, towards the
S.A. border, there is a patch of country without
gohannas, meat ants, turtles or platypus; but in
their place we have such imported treasures as
rabbits, foxes, a few Chows, thistles, sparrows and
29 Indian hawkers.
“J.P.” : Scorn is expressed (B. 19/3/’l4)
at the yarn of a pub where the customers pour out
their own drinks and put the cash on the counter,
thus obviating the expense of a bar-tender. Yet
something like it is an established fact—and in the U.S.
of all places. According to the Brooklyn Eagle,
which is a reputable sheet as sheets go, it has been
the custom for years in X. York for the owners of
the news-stands at street corners to leave it to the
honesty of the passers-by to select and pay for their
papers themselves, the newsvendors being busy de-
livering the latest edition about the neighborhood.
So the customers pick up the paper they require,
put down the money and take change when necessary
from the pile of cash already there. Of course it is
easier to be honest about a halfpenny newspaper
than a sixpenny drink—exactly 12 times easier. Still
the principle remains, or disappears or vanishes or
asserts itself, or something.
“Leo Lear”: I write from the Garden
State. But the garden is a bit wilted just now.
A tearing gale, as hot as the fumes of a Middle Age
Hell is blowing over it. Wearily I take up the
paper and see that five, or seven or 12 inches have
fallen on the Queensland coast. I know those rains,
and the report calls up out of the past the heavy
thud of a perpendicular fall. It is evening, and the
rains have ceased. All nature is adrip. The
calmness that prevails is the calmness of a wet
season’s night. An all-pervading coolness rises from
a satiated earth; and down the gullies float the
sounds of water rushing over granite boulders, and
round the roots of river oaks. Through it all the
limbs and leaves and spouts drip on. The curlews
come out of the saplings, and wail a loud wail of
thanksgiving for moisture received. It is a frog’s
paradise. From eVery hollow tree and stump, from
logs and ferns, from house roof and termites’ nest,
they croak the night through. A faint breath stirs the
leaves, and down come showers of moisture. A
cloud breaks in the east, and through it some stars
shine out clear over a green, cool, pregnant land,
peaceful in the knowledge of fruits to come. Then
arises a stronger blast, laden with heat and smoke,
and I start to find the Argus disappearing off the
verandah in the arms of a northerly gale. It has
been carried into the howling garden of the White
Man s Home. So I sit on and dream about that
other State, the damp, the calm, the cool, which
is supposed to be fit only for Chows.
“A.J.W.”: “Pick” (B. 12/3/’l4) * talks
through his turban when he claims that the herds of
the South Coast (N.S.W.) are scientifically worked
for results. The one thought and aim of the cow-
lords’ existence there is to extract fluid from his
goddess as long as he profitably can. As for taking
tests and keeping records, when the cow-cocky is
not milking he is too busy thinking how best he
can sweat his Joss, missus, kids and f.-rm-hands.
to worry about trifles of that sort. The practice at
Bodalla docs not apply to the districts surrounding
Kiama and Jamberoo. I was employed on one of
the large farms in that district, and nary a test
did I see that cow-baron make. True, he had three
test tubes fixed in a piece of board, and during my
term of office (4§ years) they reclined in the rafters,
and were graced with the cobweb and dust of many
years. The only way I have seen herds improved
was per medium of a fresh supply of husband to
Mrs. Bull. The language used by the cow-worshippers
of the South Coast when they hear of the stock
inspector’s impending visit is not what I would ask
a respectable family journal like The Bulletin to
print. Inspection is considered unnecessary and an
interference with the liberty of the subject, etc.,
etc. Strange to relate, the cockies always know
when the inspector is coming, and great is the haste
to get Strawberry (who snores and coughs in an
alarming manner) into a scrub paddock, until the
invader has faded away. I have milked cows by the
dozen that have been in' an advanced stage of tuber-
culosis, with the full knowledge of the boss, and the
give-off has been put in the common can and sent to
Sydney for human consumption. And no doubt
human consumption ensued.
BUSINESS.
MOTORIST ( stuck up): “What will it cost to
fix this machine?”
MECHANIC: What’s wrong with it?”
MOTORIST: “I don't know.”
MECHANIC : “Oh, well, about £20.”
THE ECONOMIC REBUKE.
LADY OF HOME: “ I’ve nothing for you to-day, my good man.”
BEGGAR : “ Exactly. You’ll excuse me for the remark, mum, but I think you're paying
too much rent, People levin in a ' ons e like this shouldn't be pinched for a tanner
or so. I used to average about 2S. 6d. a month from the party that lived ‘ere afore
you. A person that ain’t got £500 a year and plenty of tucker and left-off clothing
to give away has no business in a house like this. Good morning, mum!”
“Te Tana” : Reckon the old Tongans de-
serve the biscuit for their persistency in putting huge
lumps of scoria or limestone, or whatever the stuff
is, around the space occupied by the dear departed.
At Mua is a langi, or boneyard, about 50ft. by 30ft.
in size, which i 3 enclosed by two layers of huge
coral blocks laid end to end. A corner stone in
one of these contraptions measures 21ft. by sft. by
4ft., and the block was evidently cut out of the
reef and carried to its present position. Another
little mystery is at Ivologa. In shape it is like a
doorway, two great pillars of stone forming the
jambs, with another piece of rock laid across the
top and mortised into two uprights. “What pur-
pose did these blocks serve?” every visitor asks
after gazjng at the pile of weed-grown relics. Seems
to me this masonry business was a waste of time.
Planting nuts would have been more profitable.
“Tekelo” (strictly on his own responsi-
bility) : My hat goes off to Kerakera and his pals
of Vella Lavella, Solomon Islands. This is the reason
therefor. Naravai village had lost several million
dogs, snapped by an alligator. So
when the news ran through the village
that the said ’gator was asleep in 4 ft. of
water, the natives reckoned that the time
was dead ripe for reprisals. Iterakera and
four chums lined up on the creek-side
whilst another stood handy with an axe.
The expectant village filled in the back-
ground. Simultaneously the boys dived
on to the slumbering allodile, embraced
it under the armpits and round' its neck,
and swam it to the bank. The next
few seconds were filled with what looked
like a marine explosion and a water-
quake combined. The great caudal ex-
tremity of the beast lashed the water to
foam, but amidst all that blind lather
and flurry the natives hung on. Remon-
strances were unheeded. The state-
ments of the animal were rejected. The
whole fracas was only a matter of mo-
ments. Watching his chance the dodging
axeman leapt in and dealt a blow which silenced that
uncorroborated tail for ever. Then the entire popu-
lation fell on the orphan reptile and slaughtered it
with hatchets, fish-spears, dogs’ barks and women’s
shrieks.
“Royal”: “Wandi” (B. 19/2/T4) says
“the only generic distinction between kangaroos and
wallabies is that the nostril interspace is naked in
the former and hairy in the latter.” This is a
display of appalling ignorance. The wallaby (scrub)
has a black stripe down his back; he has reddish fur
“.Tames Beerbones” : I have met the coc-ky
at last who was satisfied with one of his “hands.”
He handed out the information to Justice Gordon
during a murder trial at Narrabri (N.S.W.). Giving
evidence as to accused’s character while in his em-
ploy he said: “When first engaged his conduct was
exemplary. He was sober, industrious and hard-
working from four in the morning till eight at
night.” I wonder how the Sepulchre he put in his
spare time?
about the shoulders; his breast and stomach are
light colored ; and he has markings on the face that
kangaroos do not possess. “Wandi” says: “Place a
big wallaby in open country, and a small kangaroo
in a scrub, and without some distinctive mark to
guide him, the bushman will be hopelessly mixed.”
This is where I laugh horribly. The dreary, drab-
grey of the kangaroo always betrays him. He also
sits up much straighter than a wallaby, who, born
in scrub and dodging bushes and branches all his
life, has contracted a slight stoop and rarely sits
bolt upright. When on the move, kangaroos swing
their tails up and down in a stiff, boomerang
fashion. Wallabies never do. They worry mighty
little about their caudle appendage at' 'any time.
Wallabies are the handsomest of the marsupial tribe,
barring, perhaps, the paddymelons.
A DIFFERENT PROPOSITION.
SUE: “ Why, you used to say you would even
die for me! ”
HE: " Yes, but that's a damned sight different
to LIVING with you.”
Wonn : They don’t bother about bar-
maids in the Gippslar.d Ranges. At Toombon the
landlord and his brother leave the village pub to
look after itself, while they seek gold in the old
workings. But the pub is open, and you can get a
drink. On the counter is pasted the following
notice:—
If you want a drink there is whisky on the shelf
and beer under the counter. Help vourself, and put
the money in the till. "
This is probably a lie.
(Continued, on page 24 .)
A TWO-SIDED IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From out the roar of city streets unto the Marge
of Things
My thoughts (the street-bound exile’s thoughts) fly
out on wanton wings.
The blue electric haze grows dim; the fever dies
away;
And 1 am back at Piker’s pub beyond the Death
o’ Day.
Dies out the. screech of crazy trams. I see old
Piker sit
Dpon the four-legged bar-room stool, and smoke,
and sometimes spit.
I see the light of infamy suffuse his foxy eyes
What time he wipes the sweat away and curses at
the flies.
Fades out the city’s pageantry, the glamor of the
night.
And out beyond the Sunset’s Rim I see two drovers
fight.
I watch the drunken warfare rage; I see the blood
that flows
(God bless the Scarlet Girl who wipes the friendless
loser’s nose !).
1 here rises on the stilly air the after-supper hum,
And comes afar across the night the smell of
“doctored” rum;
The scent of Gholab’s caravan, a-sprawling north-
ward late
Beneath the stars to save the bars this side the
Border Gate.
The fashion-plates of George-street grow as faint as
faint can be ;
And all I see is Mulga Mick upon his jamboree.
I see him sidestep cleverly to miss the Devil's
prongs,
And dodge most expeditiously the Wrigglywonty-
gongs.
I see him trudging out across the wideness of the
plain
To earn another cheque whereby he’ll see ’em all
again!
I hear him curse old Piker’s soul —to that of Nick
compared.
(As if old Piker heard the curse, or, hearing,
really cared !)
The convent bells have ceased to chime. And
(scarlet thoughts are these!)
Once more I see Delilah strum the old piano keys.
1 see a heaving bosom decked with amethyst and
pearl,
That each were old Merino’s gifts to Her, the
Scarlet Girl!
The hustle of the highway stops, the toot of motor
hogs ;
And I behold ten topers watch two fiercely-fighting
dogs.
I hear the yelp of conquered rage—bite deep, oh
victor’s teeth !
(God bless the world's consistency—-the small dog’s
underneath !)
The harbor lights pale one by one. And out in
Piker's bar
The eyes of many “lambed-down” men resemble
each a star ;
For once again the whisky-tap will rapturously flow
(God bless the “cheque-man” who arrives when
funds are sadly low!).
The ink upon my paper dries. The telephone that
rings
No knowledge of the here and now to my awak’ning
brings.
Once more upon the four-legged stool in Piker’s bar
I sit,
And watch the fat proprietor most ponderously spit.
N.S.W.
K. J. CASSIDY.


RIDING BREECHES
READY TO WEAR.
Best Value in tHe Commonwealth.
81.
Bi.—Riding Breeches,
in Grey Saddle Twists, with
Mock Buck Strapping's and
Button Knees, strong and
serviceable, S7/C.
B 8 Leggings,
seamless, blocked, fastening
with spring in front: Un-
dressed Leather, 21/-;
Imitation Pigskin, 22/6;
Real Hogskin, 35/-
B9.—Puttee Leggings,
seamless and blocked in
natural shape, in Black Hide,
22/6; Imitation Pigskin,
22/6. .
m
B 3 Trousers,
in Grey Saddle Twist, se-
lected for durability, 18/6.
We Guarantee Satisfac-
tion in Everything We
Sell.
dfhd
82.
B2.—Riding Breeches,
in good, solid Saddle Twists,
made with Button Knees and
strapped with same material.
Ready to wear, 25/-
Strong, Serviceable Leg-
gings for Country Use.
mo.
I
811.
bio.— Black Hide Beg-
gings, plain, 7/6.
Bli.—Black Hide Leg-
gings, with tongue, 8/6.
We Supply the Best Goods at Australia’s Lowest
Prices—Always. Melbourne’s Premier Store.
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd.
Bourße Street, Melbourne, S.E.
fdh
\
aasßßi
f
Winter Demands
Supplied.
Why lot your Soda Fountain stand
idle all the winter instead of making it
a profit-paying investment, yielding
a constant and satisfactory revenue?
The increasing popularity of Hot
Drinks at the Soda Fountain has
enabled owners to make their business
an all-thc-year-round success. NEL-
SON’S “PERFECTO” URN is the
most reliable, up-to-date, and surest
winner for trade in the hot drink
department that has yet been put
before the public. It is a handsome
adornment for any Soda counter,
besides being a most useful and paying
investment. It will serve hot drinks
in a moment in a stylish yet simple
and thoroughly satisfactory manner.
Get your share of the hot drink trade
created by the splendid advertisement
of our “PERFECTO” URN.
Now is the time to place your order
for the famous NELSON “ICELESS
INTERIOR” Soda Fountain. We
are taking scores of orders to be in-
stalled for next season’s trade. Get
in early and avoid disappointment.
You will save in the cost by placing
your order early.
Nelson’s Carbonating Co. will be mak-
ing an extensive exhibit of all the
latest mineral water machinery at the
Wine Kiosk at the Royal Agricultural
Show in April. Every person inter-
ested in the mineral water business
should make a special effort to witness
this^ —it will be a revelation to you to
see the superior achievements of the
Nelson Machines.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 George Street (Circular Quay), Sydney.
Agents—NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. Ltd., 124 Roma Street, BRISBA .
A. B. HADDEN, 35 Barrack Street, PERTH.
An Unsolicited Testimonial,
"ARC LAMPS NOT IN Tit SAME STREET."
Extract of Letter received from the Electrical Engineer of a
large Mine in N.S. W.
** The 400 c.p. Lamps are the best investment / have made.
/ have four burning under the Brace—so far they have burnt about 1800 hours .
/ have cut out 12 Flame Arc Lamps, and put 400 c.p. in place .
ARC LAMPS ARE NOT IN THE SAME STREET
No worry or repairs, and always sure of having light. In time / shall have
all "warns in place of Arc Lamps.”
THIS MATTER IS OF INTEREST TO YOU.
PLEASE WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO —
SIEMENS
SYDNEY MELBOURNE.


Sporting
Ammunition.
Used by all Sportsmen requiring
the best.
KYNOCtt MADE
‘BONAX''
KYNOCH LOADED
AH Component Parts are manu-
factured and put together in our
own factory.
[2
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
STOMACH TROUBLES.
Laxo-Tonie Pills are a most effective remedy for
Biliousness and all irregularities of the stomach and
bowels. They act quickly and effectually, without
weakening the system, as is the case with most medi-
cines used for these troubles. Price, lOjd. and Is. 6d.
Obtainable everywhere.*
fgh
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
tjomnosvw3 i
ouiccro'T
k
CVI IWI
/S*
*n<! 5* ell wo awn *n/msAla
Emlator
does away with ali
risk of bleeding:.
Postage Free 45/-
My “ Hints on Castrating”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 30/- to 50/
Emaseulators from
Zoeller’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for oomplete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE
“Whaffor”: We are out here on the
Adelaide River (N.T.) with a survey party, and life
is interesting and eventful. This is a splendid river,
with rich vegetation right down to the water’s
edge. The place teems with beasts, birds and fish.
To a man from down South it is a doubly dyed
shame that he has to undergo the humiliation of
having a hath in a tub with the beautiful Adelaide
flowing by, and the Williambong full of clear, cool
water. The only thing it's not clear of is the
darned crocs. It seems irresistibly funny at first
to see a fine bronzed 6ft. Australian standing stark
naked in a tub having a wash, but its part of the
daily scenery. The nigs, that the survey parties
have are invaluable. The lubras have hides like
leather and skulls like rock. They need them. Last
Thursday a family row occurred and it was a day
of great hidings for the lubras. Nancy is-Charlie’s
wife, and Fanny is Bob’s. Well, Charlie barked
AFTER HOURS.
Z1444 : “ Your name and address, please!”
bis shin on a stump, so feeling savage be got to
Nancy with a rod, and gave her beans. Then he
chucked her into a billabong three times. Nancy
made a beeline to where we were surveying, and Fanny,
who heard the dispute, followed her mate. Charlie
followed the pair for a while, then returned. Bob,
who was with us, saw Fanny’s tracks and Charlie’s
with them, which made him suspect that his spouse
had an “affair” with Charlie. When he got back he
gave the unfortunate Fanny particular Sheol on
the strength of circumstantial evidence, and finished
up by tossing her in the river. Unfortunately
there happened to be a few tons of crocs, in that
river, and one of them, making a playful snap at
Fanny’s fast retreating form, succeeded in getting
a part of the only garment that a lubra wears.
A COMBINATION OF EVENTS.
BROTHER SLOBKINS : " Oh, Brother Jobkins, ’ow did you get that black heye?”
BROTHER JORKINS: “Me wife ’it me on it with a frame with ‘ Gord Bless Our ’ Ome’
on it, because I wouldn’t buy 'er a bonnet an’ a tambourine so that she could go
saving souls.”
“Tarago”: Apropos the peat fires men-
tioned by “Marloo” (B. 12/3/’l4). The great Koo-
weerup Swamp, Gippsland (Vic.), has been burning
on and off for the past 20 years. The area covered by
the bog is 75,000 acres, and in places the peat
runs to a depth of 12ft. This, when burnt, is
reduced to a bed of red ashes about four or
five feet deep. “Marloo” opines that only a
deluge of rain will quench these fires; but he
is wrong. Anyhow, I have never seen a Gipps-
land winter that could produce enough rain
to stop them. The only moderately effective
stop I know of is to trench the ground to the
clay. If this cannot be reached at a reason-
able depth the bottom of the trench is
tramped down solid to pack the peat beneath
and exclude the air. Even then fences, crops,
roads and houses have been undermined by
these infernos and destroyed, despite this and
other methods employed. It is not altogether
the decayed vegetable matter spoken of by
“Marloo” that keeps the fire going in the big
bog. Tree trunks and several layers of stumps
of bygone forests are found at 12ft., and
deeper, from the surface. Some of this tim-
ber is in the last stage of decay; more of it
in a semi-petrified state. One effect of Gov-
ernment drainage on this tract was the subsi-
dence of the surface, as the water left the peat
to the extent of from 3ft. to 6ft. In the latter
case the second crop of stumps came into
view, and the cocky in many parts had to clear
his land a second time. Also, although the
Government has spent £250,000 to date on
the drainage, there is a proposition now before
Parliament to throw in another £55,000 owing
to the obliteration of some of the original
drains and the diminished carrying capacity of
others, as a result of the aforementioned subsi-
dence. Incidentally, history has it that Bro-
ther Binghi gave this swamp a wide berth as
the habitation of bunyips and tooradino and such-
like fowl, but it is a significant fact that I have
unearthed his stone axe well within the dread area.
“Gil Gunnia” : Are certain trees any in-
dication of hidden mineral wealth ? In the early
days, Bendigo miners swore elaborately that the
Victorian ironbark was a sure clue to gold-bearing
country. The broad-leafed mallee is not plentiful
in N. S. Wales; yet it was the principal herbage on
both the Wyalong and Broken Hill outcrops. I
struck a couple of opal-diggers near Lightning Bidge
the other day, where they were trying to strike a
new line of reef. They reckoned that the “white”
yarran grew only on opal country, and were keeping
an eye open for it as a prelude to an outcrop. I
afterwards had a look round the Bidge, and found
that there actually was a good deal of the shrub in
question, and that it was notably absent away from
the opaliferous country.
“Sarto”: On Sunday, March 8, there
passed by my door 40 trucks of cattle, being portion
of a large consignment en route from Armidale
(N.S.W.) to Werribee (Vic.). These unfortunate
brutes, 517 head, comprising cows, heifers and suck-
ing calves, were loaded at Armidale at 6 a.m. on
Thursday, three and a half days before being un-
loaded and paddocked at Wodonga, on the Victorian
border. The whole journey of 750 miles had to be
endured in these stifling trucks without water and
with the thermometer tottering all the time above 100
deg. Little wonder that 60 head had perished on the
road and some more gave up what scraps of ghost
remained to them after being turned loose. Can’t
arrangements be made to hang somebody? I will
gladly contribute my mite.
* * * *
“McNorth”: The largest ant in Papua’s
treacle is its land trouble. At the time of the
annexation of the country by Britain, the person
hired to do the annexing promised the savages of
Port Moresby and thereabouts that the Great White
Queen would not grab their land; if any land was
required it would be purchased from the natives,
supposing they cared to sell. That was right then,
and for long afterwards, when the European popula-
tion was small and composed of missionaries, and
officials who looked forward to the time when they
would leave the blasted place and return to Cold
England, and traders and miners who required little
land to carry on their business. Now circumstances
are vastly different; but the foolish old ass of a
blithered promise remains the same. This is forcibly
brought under the notice of the man who longs to
become a planter in Papua. The main ingredient
in making a plantation is land, and when the would-
be planter makes application for some he is told
that a land-buyer will be sent to purchase a block
from the natives. After a few weeks or months or
sons, according to the insistence of the land-hungry
bloke, this is done. The Government buyer usually
returns at the end of the Thirty Years’ War and
states that his efforts have been crowned with fail-
ure—the niggers refuse to sell. By this time the
intending planter has usually left the country in dis-
gust, or gone broke. The enlightened Papuan of the
present time is a keen trader, and he knows that a
thing in demand is worth an enhanced price. So in
most instances he refuses to sell his native heath.
He reckons to get more for it by-and-bye, when his
white neighbor’s place is reproductive. If this
system continues we shall one day see the poor
white man working for the rich Papuan land-owner,
and have Maoriland’s trouble all over again. Yet
if some strong administration were to propose a
policy that would allow each village a certain amount
of land for its gardens and a bit over, and take the
remaining thousands of acres for settlement pur-
poses, a howl of protest and indignation would arise
from those people who weep over “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,’’ and who regard the nigger as a brother,
but not a possible brother-in-law.
“Machete”: “T.H.’s” description of the
Murray blacks’ ovens (B. 19/2/’l4) recalls the fact
that the “hole in the ground” system was much
practised by musterers, drovers and others in
Western Queensland once upon a time. A hole
was dug and the fire kindled. Later the hot ashes
were scooped out and the joint (generally a turkey,
duck or some other feathered viand) was dropped
in, unpeeled. The hot ashes were then shovelled
in and the whole tamped down with a thick layer of
earth.
MOTHER’S DARLING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E was always “Mother’s Darlin’ ” to ’is pore, ’ard-
workin’ mum;
But them times is past an’ done with, an’ ’is ’our 0’
trial ’as come.
Oh, ’e couldn’t give up boozin’, an’ it looks as if
’e’s gone,
For they won’t stand Mother’s Darlin’ now ’e’s gone
an’ killed a John.
Lord, I’ve often stood an’ watched ’im lying kickin’
in th’ street,
With three Johns a-fallin’ round ’im an’ a-dodgin’ of
’is feet;
An’ they’d pass th’ word around, “ ’Ey! Mother’s
Darlin’s got a load!
’Urry up an’ watch ’im kickin’ silly Johns around
the’ road!”
Yes, ’e was an ’oly terror w’en ’e started in Dunn’s
bar;
But th’ Johns they didn’t mind ’im till ’e went a
bit too far;
It was Cassidy ’e done for, an’ they say th’ case is
clear ;
So it’s “Good-bye, Mother’s Darlin’ ” with a knot
be’ind ’is ear.
Now I wonder w’en ’e shuffles —as they say ’e’s bound
ter do—-
When th’ rope is waitin’ for ’im with the trap to
let ’im through,
Will the ’angman an’ th’ sheriff see be’ind that
special lid,
Th’ face o’ Mother’s Darlin’ as th’ face 0’ some poor
kid.
Ev’ry bloke that’s dived feet foremost through that
little swingin’ door,
’E ’as been some Mother’s Darlin’ in th’ good ole days
o’ yore ;
An’, although they say ’e’s earned it, an’ ’is family
disgraced,
Don’t this ’angin’ Mother’s Darlin’s seem a silly sort
o’ waste ?
N.S.W.
HEMP.
The Hanging of Boyle.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BOYLE and Corrigan were bad neigh-
bors, and Blue Coat was often dis-
turbed by their brawling. If Boyle
happened to be moved by the spirit, com-
ing off afternoon shift at midnight, he
would pause for 10 minutes at Corrigan’s
front gate to objurgate Corrigan in roaring
profanity, also Corrigan’s progenitors and
posterity, not forgetting his Aunt Ann. Corri-
gan was milder in attack, and less uproarious
in reply, but there were times when
his just anger impelled him to rise from his
warm bed at unholy hours and give Boyle
a bit of his mind through the spaces in
Boyle’s palings. Then perhaps Boyle would
get up and throw the camp oven at Corrigan.
Corrigan would reply with a few bricks, and
exchange of civilities might be maintained
till daylight. However trivial the disagree-
ment, Blue Coat could not avoid being aware
of the fact.
It was early on the Sabbath morning. The
pair had clashed, getting home from an all
night beer lunch at Scougil’s, on the high
bank of the Blue Coat dam, which was the
convenient track across Carrot Creek. There
were people at Blue Coat who made a point
of never missing an outbreak of verbal hos-
tilities between the Boyles and the Corri-
gans, and a few of these, getting out hastily
in their pants, were just in time to see
Boyle hurl Corrigan bodily into the deep
water of the dam.
Then followed much excitement. Regan
threw an old iron truck into the dam for Cor-
rigan to cling to. Phil Welsh ran a mile
to the school to borrow the rules and regu-
lations for the resuscitation of the appar-
ently drowned. Boyle hastened to awaken
the doctor, and no one was left to extend
a helping hand to Corrigan till Swan, the
shift boss, arrived, and pulled the sodden
man ashore with a rake.
Then everybody returned, bringing the doc-
tor and the schoolmaster, and the job of
restoring Corrigan to consciousness was be-
gun in real earnest. For 10 minutes Boyle
overlooked proceedings, fidgeting fearfully.
There being no sign of returning animation
in his water-logged victim, he opened his
touching harangue:—
“Shtick to him, docthor! Don’t lave him
wan min-ute. Glory be he’ll hang me, he
will! That’s what he’s afther —th’ hangin’
iv me! Rub him, misther Swan, dear, will
yeh now? Rub him har-r-d. Fer th’ love iv
heaven, rub th’ bla’guard ! He’s fer hangin’
me. Look ut him, ’tis dyin’ he’ll be on me
fer nothin’ but meanness ’n’ pervarsity.
Squeeze him again, docthor, dear. Maybe ye’d
wring another quart out ’n’ save him hang-
in’ me. Och, och !”
Boyle was weeping unrestrainedly. His
voice had taken on the keening note of old
women at a wake.
“Blessed heaven, will ye not squeeze th’
thief? Can’t ye see he’s afther th’ hangin’
iv a poor man that done nothin’ but slip him
in the small dthrop iv wather.”
Boyle was dancing anxiously now.
“Docthor, won’t ye be givin’ him some-
thin’ t’ stop th’ hangin’? Oh, murther,
musha murther, ’tis a dead man talkin’ wid
yeh !” Then in a terrible roar. “Corrigan,
yeh thafe iv the world, come to ’n’ don’t be
playin’ yer dirthy thricks on a Christyin
man!” Next the voice sank to a pitiful
whine again. “Docthor, docthor, he’ll die if
yeh. on’y lave him half a chance. ’Tis mur-
therous revenge he’s afther. Wouldn’t yeh
stand him up indways t’ dthrain afore they’re
hangin’ me? He’s th’ pervarse ’n’ conthrary
devil. Och, ’tis wonder a man would be et
such throuble t’ put th’ bit iv rope round th’
neck iv a dacent boy wid a family ’n’ bills
owin’. Och! me widdy woman, me poor
widdy woman ’n’ me five little orphans !”
The doctor stood up. Corrigan was
breathing.
“He’ll do now,” said the M.D. “We’ll get
him home to bed.”
Boyle emitted a wild roar. “Is he bate_?
he cried. “Corrigan, yeh dirty crawlin
shnake iv th’ world, wait till I got me two
hands on yeh! I’ll tach yeh t’ be plottin ,
’n’ schamin’, ’n’ conthriyin’ fer t’ slay a
dacent good man, that will I.”
At Corrigan’s gate Boyle emitted his final
roar. “There goes th’ villain. ’Tis murther
V manslaughter should be writ be his dure.
Wan day I’ll choke his head off.”
But Boyle never again spoke to Corrigan,
and went much out of his road to avoid meet-
ing him. “He’s one would hang a man,
whispered Boyle twenty times a week.
EDDSON.


mmm
(Zld^StSir,
p<*£
Wmk^-
& H
'
' vNj ■
V
■
ft; 1 1
WM
7 fsZ>
Syr 1 1
m
/
V
V-***
ihZ
V
/
- "tirylf'- % -
Vi
"
n
M
-
sm
..
00
mm
%
m§
m*
im
m
m
iv l -,*
s:>'-
:*£**.i
wt. . . ‘-A A:
. s
:•
■sv-i'-
m
i&f-S
-1 M
■ Af-
ilS
A,
1
m
'm
SpSI
Motorists desirous of having larger tyres fitted to their standard rims without going to the
expense of, or being inconvenienced by, the re-building of their wheels, cannot do better than
fit CONTINENTAL “OVERSIZE” TYRES. The many advantages of “Oversizes”
has become apparent to thousands of Australian Motorists, who recognise that the increased
air capacity must necessarily add to the tyre mileage and incidentally reduce vibration, and
—most important of all—a big Decrease in their Tyre Bill,.
Particulars and Price List on Application.
THE CONTINENTAL C. 8 G. RUBBER CO. PTY. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Launceston, Auckland & Christchurch, N.Z.


§
Ri
:
x.:.'
e m
4». .•
09
apM
is
■I HAVE
RECEIVED A
SECOND LIFE
mmrntesr
mm
Hundreds of thousands of people have derived
immeasurable benefits
From Sanatogen
Thousands of them have written to the proprietors
to say so. Their testimony records marvellous results,
whicli, until its discovery, could never have been obtained
by any means at the disposal of the physician.
Among the writers are many celebrities with whose
names
You will
be as familiar as with your own.
Tens of thousands of doctors throughout the world
have prescribed Sanatogen, which a medical authority,
writing in The Medical Press and Circular, states, “ has
strengthened the physician’s hand a hundredfold,’’ while,
he adds, “the wonders brought about by this prepara-
tion are no less mayifold than amazing.”
This is high praise for any preparation to
Receive
but it has been endorsed by innumerable statements.
Here, for instance, is one by that famous Authoress,
Madame Sarah Grand : “Sanatogen has done everj-thing
for me which it is said to be able to do for cases of
nervous weakness and exhaustion. I began to take it
after nearly four years’ enforced idleness from extreme
weakness, and felt the benefit almost immediately. And
now, after taking it steadily three times a day for
twelve weeks, I find myself able to enjoy both work
and play again, and also able to do as much of both as I
ever did.”
To be so revitalised is, indeed, in Shakespeare’s
words, to receive
A Second Life
That experience may be duplicated by every reader
of these words, for Sanatogen so influences the nervous
and muscular systems, the digestion and the great blood-
making organs, that it lestores the normal balance dis-
organised by illness or disease.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists, in tins, at 2S. 6d.,
3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d.
An int resting and instructive booklet, entitled
“The Art of Living,” will be sent, post free, to all
who write, mentioning this paper, to A. Wulfing & Co.,
17, Bond Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The sad and dreary crowd that is always
clamoring for the stoppage of trams and
trains on Sundays, and the closing of the
refreshment-rooms, where the hot and dusty
urchin and his ma soak their parching
throats with oranges or a pint of lemonade,
and the intoleration of everything on the
Board’s Day excepting the pulpit and the
plate, was bound to awake active opposition.
Some of that opposition has already arrived,
more is hatching, and here’s a consignment
from the “Sunday Freedom Association”
(Sydney):—
The Association has secured the Protestant Hall
for Tuesday, the 21st April, in which to hold a
public meeting of protest against the inequitable
provisions of the “Theatres and Public Halls Act,
1908,” which limit meetings on Sundays in public
halls to “religious worship” only. We claim that
such limitation is equivalent to conferring a mono-
poly upon the teachers of certain dogmas. The
effect is to close a natural opportunity for educative
influence through lectures and discussions on scientific,
social, economic and all intellectual subjects on
Sundays. Intellectual subjects are specifically
banned by the Act! In addition—Sunday nights
are the most convenient, and, therefore, the best
nights for workers to attend meetings on intellectual
subjects.
The Act makes clear that only “religious worship”
(as distinct from matters of a “religious nature”) is
legal on Sunday, and one .consequence is that many
evade the law by advertising meetings under a title
carrying “religious” suggestion, but' whose talk is
in no sense “religious worship.” : A lecturer on,
saj% astronomy, is debarred from lecturing, and even
if he condescended to style his lecture “The Religion
of the Heavens” it would be in violation of the law.
It was the Wade Government that passed
this dull and stupid piece of legislation, and
the Holman Government could very justly
and profitably make some extensive altera-
tions. Dullness, stupidity and the intoler-
ance of fanatics are far from being the catch
of the season these days.
«
“Feng Shui” writes:—
The Australian who can’t see the point of a direct-
route Northern Territory railway—chiefly because it
wouldn t earn as much money as a Sydney or Mel-
bourne suburban line—might consider the words of
a Chinese mandarin, by name Admiral Liu Kuan-
HSIUNG. He has just petitioned the Celestial Gov-
eminent for a railway in Fukien Province, for “the
transportation of troops, the preservation of order
and the promoting of commerce.” He regards it as
a national essential—as much so as the army. And
with reason. The rebellion last year in the Yang-
tse \ alley was nipped in the bud solely because
1 eking held the railways and was able to rush troops
and eight-inch guns into the disaffected regions.
On the other side a vast army of rebels was mobil-
ised way down in Canton, its wild intention being
to march on foot in quest of blood and riot, across
the vast territories between Canton and Hankow.
It started out, but before it had marched 100 miles
the rebellion was over. The Government troops were
entrenched along a front of 500 miles, and from
Kwangtung to Pechili you couldn’t hear vourself
speak for the protestations of loyalty to the Gov-
ernment.
To Kublai Khan— in his day the last word on
military science—a declining birthrate in his army
was as serious a business as desertion and disease,
because by the time he had reached his objective the
babies born at the beginning of the march were
probably fit to carry weapons. His vast hordes
advanced as gradually as lantana or prickly pear.
They ate up the land as they went. Regularly they
stopped to plant crops. In later times they would
have stopped to float companies and wild cats. It
was more like an immigration than a march. Over
the ground Kublai Khan covered in a decade the
Russian Government recently, by means of one thin
thread of railway, flung nearly 1,000,000 men in a
few months, and, what is more wonderful, kept them
fed and clothed for the space of two years at a dis-
tance of 5000 miles from their base.
The Australian general who was confronted with
the problem of transferring an army from Oodna-
datta to Pine Creek to-day would be compelled to
adopt the methods of Kublai Khan. By the time
the emaciated remnant of superannuated veterans
had tottered half their journey the Northern Terri-
tory would be in the hands of an army of occupa-
tion, strongly entrenched, and already beginning to
build railways, plant crops and otherwise make itself
at home. That is why the Chinese example above-
quoted is worth the careful notice of modern Aus-
tralians.
By “O. C. Cabot” : For iced gall, or frozen
cheek, Holman, the Ma State’s Premier,
annexes the entire brewery. The other
day Yawn Murray. Chief Sleepertary,
or something, of Victoria, woke up
with a sudden start and remarked in
a loud voice that he thanked God Victoria
was not like unto Ma about the finance. lie
prognosticated awful things about Ma’s
future, and also animadverted upon her im-
mediate, or adjacent, past under the
McGowen-llolman regime. Incidentally,
he specified (what is a mighty truth) that
that Past had been about the dead, or coma-
tose, Limit of Awful Achievement. Yawn
added a lot of rude things about the Loans,
and Deficits, and Taxes, and the Hiatuses
in the Treasury of Ma, and the Sydney
papers printed them all in glee and leaded
type. Then the Sydney papers instructed
the “Departments” reporters to go round and
see Holman, and loosen his collar, and
throw water, on his high and classic brow.
But that brilliant messer, far from having
fainted, was sitting up quite chirpy and cool,
and, like a budding Pecksniff, he put his
head on one side and the tips of his fingers
together, and remarked loftily
That the report contained so many misstatements
of fact and so many errors of deduction that he could
not believe it represented any statement actually made
by Mr. Murray. “I think the bulk of it must be
a misunderstanding of his remarks. Under those
circumstances 1 have no desire to discuss it,” added
the Premier.
Then the crushed worms of the press crawled
wearily away, greatly marvelling at the
sublime altitude of the Mountain of Brass
they had vainly essayed to climb !
“Bung” goes off pop:—
A N.S.W. publican was recently charged with
being actively interested in two licensed public-houses
simultaneously, and duly convicted of this offence
against the Licensing Act. He was fined £65. The
law provides that a pub is like a wife. A man can-
not (legally) run two at once. It amounts to
bigamy, or beer bigamy. Since this decision the
Reduction Courts have been sitting to decide what
hotels must close up, in electorates where reduction
was carried at the last local-option poll. At these
Courts the proceedings have practically resolved
themselves into a duel between the legal representa-
tives of the big breweries, Tooth’s and Tooiiey’s.
Counsel for these breweries have represented dozens
and dozens of hotels, the licensees in whose names
they stand not bothering to appear. The penal
provisions of the law under which the luckless lone
publican was fined £65, or £5 a day, are skated
round by saying that Tooth’s and Toohey’s are
merely mortgagees, and not licensees, a distinction
which apparently quite satisfies the law. If it is
an offence to run more than one pub, what greater
travesty on the law can be imagined than a wealthy
corporation successfully appearing in the Courts to
defend its hold on hundreds of them?
-+ .
Prolonged complaint from “F. Croson” :
As a result of the progress report of Melbourne’s
Housing Commission, the Age has discovered the need
for Minimum Allotment legislation. As a matter of
cold fact, various energetic persons and bodies have
been advocating such a progressive move for a long
time past, and though they are well aware that legis-
lation in that direction will minimise slum-construc-
tion, especially in the suburbs, they are not simple
enough to suppose it will prove a panacea for over-
crowding of all sorts. The aforesaid progress report
gives a fairly clear idea of the needs of the case.
Summarised, it states that there are in the many
alleys and lanes off the smaller city streets, in Carl-
ton, Fitzroy, Port Melbourne and elsewhere, ram-
shackle, ill-constructed, ill-ventilated, bathless and
generally insanitary dwellings that should have
been compulsorily demolished long ago. There
are many other dwellings, in decent condi-
tion and repair, so overcrowded by Hindoos,
Syrians, Chows and tiresome persons of color gen-
erally, as to be a menace to the health of the whole
neighborhood. Many small and malodorous city hovels,
worth perhaps ss. a week, are let to Mrs. Rahab of
Jericho for 10s. or 15s. a week. And, significantly,
these hovels, though repeatedly condemned by local
inspectors, are somehow never demolished. A coat of
whitewash, assisted possibly by an overall or macin-
tosh of palm grease, gives them a new lease of life —
at a trifle higher rent. Thus, in the last 12 years,
Fitzroy Council has condemned 351 houses as* unfit
for habitation, but only 129 were actually demolished.
Ihe rest were furbished up and disguised in paint or
drink, and re-let as “desirable cottages, handy to the
city,” etc. It is bad enough for adults to live in
these dens, but, at least, they have some sort of
choice ; the adults’ children have none. If they can't
live in the foetid atmosphere of the hovels they die.
And Fitzroy proper is actually a city without a pub-
lic garden. Even the State schools have only yards
as playgrounds. An autocrat with a single eye to
the public health would demolish every other house in
Fitzroy, and leave the sites vacant for all time, as
breathing spaces for the inhabitants of the remaining
structures. Pretty well everybody with any brains
is aware of all these facts, and knows they should
be altered—one of the means being the Minimum
Allotment provision—wherefore the Age's pose as the
discoverer of the idea stamps it as a humorist of the
Rip Van Winkle type.
Unless the London Society papers lie most
villainously, fashionable England is stark,
staring dippy on the food question. One
peeress is accused of going out to dine armed
with charcoal biscuits. Another takes a
silver-plated instrument, like a pair of scis-
sors and with it minces up all the meat and
So 'forth that is put before her. Her birth
is unimpeachable, but her stomach is hope-
less. A peer accepts dinner invitations only
on the strict understanding that he shall be
given a specially-toasted chop. Another
takes his own mutton sandwiches with him ;
a third carries a bottle of mineral water in
the tail pocket of his coat; and a fourth
humps along his own cigars. And nearly
everybody who is anybody carries a silver or
gold box of saccharine tablets for use in-
stead of sugar. It makes entertaining much
cheaper. Practically all the host has to do is
to supply a table. The guests bring
their own provender. There is a certain
grim humor about the situation. Here is
a country in which one per cent, of the in-
habitants are worrying about what they
won’t eat, -while the remaining 99 are won-
dering drearily how-in-thunder they’re going
to get enough to eat.
“Mayne Stay” speaks of that whereof he
knows:—
Re “Lubber” (B. 19/3/’l4). His knowledge of
pilots and their earnings appears to me to be con-
fined to Williamstown (Melbourne), and the Mel-
bourne conditions don’t apply elsewhere except at
Port Pirie (S.A.). These two ports are the only ones
where compulsory pilots get what they actually earn.
All the others are on fixed salaries, varying accord-
ing to the different ports. The Torres Strait pilots
—the subject, I fancy, of the original par.—earn
their own screws, though they have to get licenses
irom the Queensland Marine Board. They are coast
pilots, and the pilotage is not compulsory, which is
where they differ from their Vic. brethren. The Mel-
bourne men average £BOO a year nett. The Port
Pirie ones rather more just now, but only for the
last few years. The other State capitals pay their
men about £350 per annum each. The Queensland
pilots are the worst paid of all, though in Brisbane
they are now on about the same financial level as
Sydney and Adelaide. There are fewer of them, and
the work is harder, being the longest pilotage of all.
The earnings of salaried pilots are a source of
revenue for the Marine Department. Take the differ-
ence between Melbourne and Brisbane. Melbourne
keeps 23 sea pilots who earn £BOO a year
after paying for the upkeep of two steamers,
a contribution to the pension fund and a
percentage to the Department for collecting
fees. There are river pilots who take charge, at
Williamstown, of ships going up the Yarra, making
the work so much easier. The Queensland Marine
Board employs 12 pilots (there are really only 11,
as one is ill, and never likely to pilot again), pays
them £350 a year, and only keeps one steamer
going. It’s real sweating, as the work is much
harder than in Melbourne, because of the long,
awkward donkey of a river, amongst other difficulties
and harassments.
The S. M. Herald published this item the
other day:—
Giluandra. —The threatened labor trouble at
next harvest, together with the difficulty of getting
suitable labor at a price which enables the farmer to
see a profit for his outlay, is having a restrictive
effect on the wheat-growing industry in this district.
In another part of the same issue it weighed
in with the following:—
Gilgandra. —On many of the farms in this dis-
trict largely increased areas will be put under grain
this year. Mr. W. V. Howe, of Wilga, will have
200 acres in, as against 100 last year; Mr. .1.
Robinson, of Windsor, hopes to have 500 acres under
crop this season, and is clearing more land with a
view of putting in a much larger area next year.
So apparently things are exciting at Gil-
gandra.
A SHOCKING END.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Melbourne paper says that the electric waiter,
already familiar in many first-class hotels and houses,
is to be supplemented with an effective electric house-
maid. The electric housemaid has been on trial, and
has given every satisfaction.
Poor Rogerson, I knew him well—
A rosy, roaring fellow,
With always one good tale to tell,
And never far from mellow.
But Rogerson’s abounding love
Of women ne'er diminished.
Now he’s below, perhaps above—
At any rate, he's finished.
His end was sudden, I’m afraid.
The simple tale is bruited—
He kissed a friend’s new waiting maid,
And was electrocuted I
VICTORIA.
S.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Chunder Eating Spaghetti.
s~ - fov •* ->f
( •• : "[! SI ‘ I
m /
-•.'l
;;i ir>;:
V /
I V V-**/
v '
<£ <
isr
KflP
rt
■y: ; :
fulfill
&?
A'w
1
jw
n
$s
r A-
r j%r/'Am
mm\
m
A
m
S 3
■/A
m.
m
&
m
S>&
V v
&
i'X
r
i \
w
V
V s&r
' ‘ -vA, .c
V
f
\
■AtXJyy
m
s
I RST
3?*!
111
}l4gi
si
M
it
11
w
Ml
imiMM
i
>s*r
sii
SKSTC
&
ift
1^32
/./ S
/
&
S\
f
’ ■
V
/
• •/»
7/
'<o-"‘[
1/
S
■AfAgy
\
%
7/yA
i’* ■^yyAy.^
6*
Cobra/ * Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Italy now
Wanders through.
Chunder spends the
Sunny days
Learn in c r the
c>
Italian’s ways.
See him eat
Spaghetti ! Quick !
Down it goes !
He’ s got the trick !
He beats travellers
Out of sight,
For his wits
Are COBRA bright.


£5/I#/-
£4
Lady’s Solid Gold, Improved
HnnHrrr. Keyless WATCH,
jj-plate, full jew-
elled Lever move-
ment, patent, ad-
justed balance,
accurate, reliable,
£3/10/- Higher
grade, £4.
fh
Latest
Style
Silk
Ribbon
Guard,
9ct.
Gold
Mounts
and Shield,
Single,
22/6.
Double,
fJ7
Australia’s Great Watch House!
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
8/6
Lady’s Black, Open Face
Keyless WATCH, full jewelled,
dust and waterproof cases, ac-
curate, reliable, 8/6.
Higher grades, 10/-, 12/6,
15/-, 20/-, 25/-
101-
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years’ guaranteed, Gold
Cased, Hunting, Keyless WALTHAM
WATCH, full jewelled, compensation bal-
ance, dust and waterproof cases. Accur-
ate, reliable, 55/- 20 years’ guaran-
teed, £4/4/. solid Gold, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, up to £3O.
55]-
60/-
The PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
The House famed all over Australasia for
good Timekeepers, Accurate and Reliable.
WRITE FOR FREE WATCH BOOKLET.
mm
XV
S
«r P
r
m
ORDER
BY MAIL.
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
Lady’s Solid
WATCH, full
Higher
jku.
Gold, Patent Expanding WRISTLET
iewelled, reliable movement. Accurate.
Grade, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
12j6
15/-
Gent.’s Nickel, Open 'Face, Keyless
LEVER, full jewelled, patent, adjusted
balance, non-magnetic time spring, dust
and waterproof cases, 12/6, 157-
Higher Grade, 20/-, 25/- Guaranteed.
201-
25|-
40/-
Lady’s Gold, Open Face Key-
less' WATCH, fancy dial, full
jewelled, adjusted balance, ac-
curate, reliable, £2.
Higher grades, €2/10/-
£3/10/-
50 1-
-
» s|
Gent.’s Solid Nickel Silver, Hunting, Key-
less LEVER WATCH, high-grade move-
ment, engine-turned cases, non-magnetic
full jewelled, dust and waterproof cases,
25/- Higher Grade, 30/- Solid Sil-
ver, 30/-, 35/- Extra jewelled, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-, up to £5.
25/-
30 1-
807-817 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless LEVER WATCH, |-
plate, patent, adjusted move-
ment, 25/-. 30/-. Higher
grades, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
00/-
25/-
30
LADY’S
WRISTLET
WATCH,
Oxidised
Case,
reliable
movement,
Morocco
or other
Leather
Straps,
10/-,
12/0,
15/-,;
20/
10/-
Lady’s Wristlet
WATCH.
■ m .. ■.
%
:■ '
■■ S
I
mm.
y 4tm
,
mmm
■
mmf
- ■
'
'mi
as the injurious bacteria are
located, everywhere -in the
lining membrane of the mouth,
and especially in the corners
and folds where the brush
cannot reach —one must use,
besides the tooth-brush, the
liquid antiseptic dentifrice
Odol, which penetrates into
the least accessible places of
the mouth and destroys all
harmful bacteria.
It is in its unique antiseptic
properties especially that
Odol excels all other mouth-
cleansing preparations. After
the mouth has been rinsed
with Odol its active antiseptic
principle spreads itself with
all-pervading effect over the
entire oral cavity; the anti-
septic element maintaining its
protective influence for hours.
It is this lasting effect, this
precious and transcendent
quality which no other denti-
frice possesses, that gives to
daily users of Odol the
absolute assurance that their
mouths are permanently pro-
tected from the processes of
fermentation and decompo-
You will do well
to remember that all the duties which you
owe to yourself for health and comfort’s
sake, the proper care of ycur teeth is one
of the most important.
You should realise —recent investiga-
tions have proved it again and again—that
the condition of the teeth has far more
influence upon our general well-being than
most of us suppose. The protection of
the teeth, however, can only be considered
as sufficient when the tooth-destroying
substances which are the causes of fer-
mentation and decomposition, and which
renew themselves in the month daily, are
also daily destroyed. You should realise
that special care is needed to keep the
month free from these harmful substances.
To a certain extent the tooth-brush will
be useful for the removal of impurities
from the teeth, but only to a certain
extent, as with the brush the surface
alone of the teeth can be reached. But
sition, which, if not guarded against,
will inevitably destroy the teeth.
Odol is supplied in two
“ Standard ” (strong) and “ Sweet Rose
(mild) and is sold by all Chemists ana
Stores.
It is the most economical of all
dentifrices, for, owing to the .concen-
trated strength of the preparation ana
the absolute purity of its ingredients, a
few drops only are sufficient for use at
a time.


' /-V S
2$
X
1 ttf name is Simplicity ••
“ I am carried everywhere—”
“ even up to the clouds by the airmen. For 1
am Onoto —the pen that makes writing easy
everywhere.”
The Onoto fills itself instantly from any
ink supply and cleans itself in filling. Get
one to-day and save time, trouble and mess.
Onoto Pen
the self filling pen.
Price 12/ • and upwards of all Stationers, Jewellers
and Stores. Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. DE LA RUE CO., Ltd.,
176, Bunhill Row, London, E.C. ; or the Australasian
representatives, Norman Baker br Longhurst, yo
York Street, Sydney.
Ask lor ONOTO INK—Best lor all Pens.
Solomon
Solution
For Horses and Cattle
HEALS QUICKLY
“Yannathan, S. Gippsland.
“A fistulous swelling on my Horse
was reduced in about a week, after
using SOLOMON SOLUTION three
times only. A lot of discharge came
away and the wound healed quick-
ly. Now one cannot see it was
ever there.
“Since then I had a Cow badly
gored on the flank. In a few days
swelled about twice the size of a
man’s fist. I used SOLOMON
SOLUTION just twice and it healed
rapidly.”
(Signed) John MCKay.
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists, Stores
and Saddlers everywhere, or post free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
I.R.W.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
/ANTISEPTIC THROAT
I I These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the Leading Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: “I thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
Sole Manufacturers— l ALL CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHER g WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them. [1
gf
ƒgd
gf
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
DINNEFORD'SjI
Magnesia J
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’3
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
SOCKS and
STOCKINGS.
Insist on having t You will like them
better than any * you have ever worn.
Because they are better. The perfectly knitted all-wool texture;
the unshrinkableness ; the soft silky feel ; the fast hygienic dyes
and the beautiful snug fit make "9MOVL the best hose you can
have. There is an immense range of styles and colour-
ings in "iaAOTim amongst them just those you will like. And
they cost no more than you would pay for the
ordinary kind.
"9cUerC Socks and Stockings are made in all styles
ani prices for men, ladies, and children. If
your dealer does not stock them insist upon his gelling
them for you.
In case of difficulty, write
JASON HOSIERY CO.. LEICESTER. ENGLAND.
An. 42
&
r\A
FOR the HOLIDAY OUTING
-the Mirth-Miking "CINCH”
“Saturday till
Tuesday morning
off this week-end,
fellows —why not
take a ‘Cinch’ along
and make the wel-
kin ring with
merry melodies?”
It’s a good proposi-
tion —everyone of
you will get keen
enjoyment from
this grand enter-
tainer.
ƒd
The “Cinch” costs only £3/10/-
It’s the handiest talking machine to take about —no horn to carry.
Down the harbor, at the picnic, or wherever you may be, just start the “Cinch”
and you’ll have them all singing merrily in quick time.
Go to the nearest talking-machine dealer to-day, and purchase the CINCH
HORNLESS ZONOPIIONE, for £3 10s.
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of nearest dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
The International Zonophone Co. Ltd.
Hoffnung’s Chambers, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
■The Youngsters
enjoy mowing with
DANKS’
“SHEFFIELD” MOWER
Look here, this “Sheffield” is a splendid
Mower, costing only 24/-. Made of fine
material, superbly finished, and possessing
the advantages of dearer makes without the
price. We tell you, you needn’t pay more
to get mower satisfaction. Runs like a bike,
needs the least attention. A clean short
cutter.
Other Styles from
15/- to 40/-
•a
'
'
\
The House
for Mowers
and
Windmills.
JOHN DANKS &SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne.
324 Pitt
St., near
Liverpool
St., Sydney.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
fgdfgd
The Accordeon with
” MELLOW TONE
Is Jusi perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Musfb
and Picnics. The Organ-llWe Tone of these Instruments
Is attained by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, whloh are hand-
fitted and tuned,
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6* post free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/*, post free
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, pries 15A, post free
OTHER MODELS FROM 7/6 TO 40/-
For Free Catalogue No. 9 write to—
fgd
276 COLLINS STREET,MELBOURNE,
and also at Bendigo and Geelong,
r T'HE BEST STORIES written in Australia appear in THE
1 LONE HAND each- month. Price Sixpence.


A DYSPEPTIC’S LIFE SAVED.
SEVERE PAIN AND SICKNESS FOR
MANY YEARS CURED BY A
SIMPLE ANTACID.
NEIGHBORS SAID HE WAS A DYING
MAN.
Chronic indigestion and sickness after food
and severe pains were all quickly cured by
a very simple remedy in the case of Mr. R.
Sayigan, 11 Gloucester Street. Barnardtown,
Newport, Mon. In a letter referring to her
husband’s illness, Mrs. Savigan writes: “He
did not know what it was to eat a meal
without it coming back,” which appears to
have been his condition for a considerable
time, until his wife, while reading a ladies’
paper, saw ordinary bisurated magnesia
recommended for indigestion, and obtained
a small quantity so that her husband might
try it. A few doses gave Mr. Savigan great
relief, and before he had finished the first
supply the trouble was practically cured.
To use Mrs. Savigan’s own words: “He can
eat his food and is looking splendid, and can
do his work; in fact, all the people about
here look at him, for they all said he was a
dying man.” The quantity of bisurated
magnesia that cured Mr. Savigan was half a
teaspoonful in a wineglass of water after
meals, and we strongly advise any of our
readers who suffer from indigestion to try
it. Be careful to get the bisurated form
spelt b-i-s-u-r-a-t-e-d, as other chemical pro-
ducts similarly named do not have the same
beuoficial effect.*
“The PAQUIN”
OF SYDNEY.
FOR ORIGINALITY
OF STYLE. —-
m-
Ladies ’ Tailor & Costumier
(Late David Jones),
OCEAN HOUSE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SCOTLAND’S BEST.
'/;
' e
PHJIE SCOTCH
WHISKY.
NEVER FAILS TO PLEASE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A matter which threatens to become
really serious in this thinly-peopled country
is the decline of the birth-rate on the Sydney
suburban trains. These trains nowadays
are quite late enough to have a really en-
couraging birth-rate on board, and the
lamentable scarcity of twins between New-
town and Sydney makes a patriot fear the
worst.
Anyone who wants to realise the lop-sided
character of the anti-Australian and anti-
Defence Liberal is invited to consider this
extract from Sydney Evening News of
March 30: —
We, however, freely acquit Senator Millen and his
colleagues of the imputation concerning the Aus-
tralia, for we do not think that they can free them-
selves from the absurd “navy of our own” fetich.
The wise course would be to give the Admiralty an
absolutely free hand. It would even be wise to make
the Imperial Government an out-and-out present of
the battle-cruiser, for in that case the tremendous,
cost of upkeep would be saved. Australia would
lose its IRON TOY, of course, but the British Navy
would gain a FIGHTING SHIP.
Apart from the haggard meanness of pro-
posing to put the “tremendous cost of up-
keep” on England instead of paying the bill
ourselves, it is interesting to note that the
Australia is a “toy” if we have it, but a
“fighting ship” if England has it. Truly
Liberalism, of the Evening News variety,
is a poor twopenny sort of game.
THE COLLECTOR.
The £200,000 which is to be raised from light
dues imposed on the shipping is just as much a means
of imposing extra taxation as is the proposed income-
tax of the State Government.
—Sydney Telegraph bitterly to Jokook.
STOUT PARTV (coldly): “Et tu, Josephus!! ’
( Revised version.)
Presumably Llolman of N.S.W. was pull-
ing his own leg when he told the State
Premiers’ conference at Melbourne that he
“did not feel altogether competent to speak
with authority on borrowing matters.”
“Bishop” Barnes, acting-Premier of Queens-
land’, fell insensible into the coal-scuttle at
the arrival of the news. Peake, of S.A.,
fainted under the table. Scaddan, the
Westralian man, who is an heroic borrower
himself, fled to the door with a suspicion
that his friend had gone mad, and defended
his position with a fish-knife. Watt, of
Victoria, held his ground, because he was
chairman of the show, and felt that the
general must not flee even if the whole army
had deserted. Lie drank the whole contents
of the water-bottle, and clung to the table
for support, and then remarked in a broken
voice that what Holman didn’t know about
borrowing wasn’t worth mention. After
that the conference gradually re-assembled.
The “state of the roads” in N.S.W. has
become so hostile and subversive and boggy
that a recent important visitor, Earl Grey,
after getting to Coonamble by train, aban-
doned the motor expedition that was to
follow. Earl Grey and party didn’t want
to sink till only the roofs of their plug hats
appeared on the surface. Owing to the
policy of bringing all railways and all com-
merce, and almost all the new population to
Sydney, there are very many N.S.W.
counties which are losing population. And
for want of people to make roads, and to
pay for roads, and to use roads, the outlying
places begin to give up having roads. Then
the person from congested Sydney comes
along in his car, and asks why these sparse
folk don’t have roads. Why should they
want roads?
Premier Watt of Victoria has
told the world that he still believes
in Elective Ministries as against
Party Government, but that if
the reform is “engrafted” on “a re-
luctant Parliament and commu-
nity it will never get a fair trial.”
Still, supposing the community to
be reluctant it can say so. In a
country where there is a fair sem-
blance of Democratic rule changes
can’t be pushed on a reluctant
people. The Premier who says
that he refuses to shove the nation
against its will over-rates his
shoving capacity. It isn’t neces-
sary for Watt to stake his billet
on the matter. Let him reluct-
antly put through a Bill providing
for a referendum on the subject
of Elective Ministries at next
election, and simply promise to
stand by the popular verdict.
The Holman Government of
N.S.W. surely wants a lawyer
very badly. Four times inside a
few days its finance proposals have
been thrown out by the Speaker’s
order as being so badly drafted as
to be outside the “order of leave.”
The Income-tax Bill has fled down
the stair twice in this fashion.
Every time it seems to be Cohen,
M.L.A., who points out the bungle, and the
love of the Holman Government for Cohen,
M.L.A., exceedeth a long-dead whale for
multitude.
The Inter-State Com-
mission plods on with
slow and tremendous feet,
struggling over a thous-
and small details of a
thousand businesses. It
seems as if it would be
years before it got any-
where. It doesn’t appear
to have even looked at the
big vital question, which
is this : If a country im-
ports so much more goods
than it can pay for that
it has to borrow millions
of foreign capital every
year to keep its accounts
square, what is likely to
happen to that country in
the end?
In view of recent sus-
picions—some of them
bottled and some in bulk
—that have pervaded
N.S.W. Assembly, it has
been _ suggested that an
hereditary breath-inspect-
or should be employed at
the door, and that sus-
pected members should be
searched for concealed
hiccups as they enter.
Also, . that any member
who is found with his
third hiccup about him
... . during business hours
should automatically vacate his seat.
Willie Watt, Vic., says he knows what the
public wants. Lie is satisfied it is Watt the
public wants.
A slab of closely reasoned debate in the
N. S. Wales Assembly :
Mr. McGirr: I desire to call attention to the filthy
remarks of the member for Randwick. (Uproar.)
Mr. Storey (heatedly) : The hon. member is an im-
famous liar and coward. (Loud uproar and interrup-
tion.) *
The Speaker called loudly for order. . . .
Mr. McGirr: I would not care to express in words
what the member said.
Mr. Storey: You are a coward 1
THE OVERDUE DOCUMENT.
Liberals have admittedly found so much in the
policy of their opponents to condemn, that they may
have been guilty of forgetting to emphasise their
own policy.—S. M. HERALD.
AUSTRALIA: “Say, Joe-fair dinkum — couldn't
you really spare a minute to emphasise
this?"
THE OPTIMIST AND THE PESSIMIST.
They condemn us for our financial policy; but if
it weren’t for the foolish parsimony of a previous
Government and its shameful neglect of, etc., etc.,
Any N.S. IF. Minister, any day.
GLOOMY GREG: " Terrible, terrible! If only
you could, like me, be temperate and
careful in your”
WILD WILLIE: “Yesh, it wuz th' sight er
your mean, mis'rable dial an' (hie!)
bloomin' stinginess that (hie!) drove me to
this, damyer!! ”
Whittsitt, the man with the bubbly or tap-
drip name, having defected, the parties in
the Tasmanian House of Ass became 16 and
14 instead of 15 all. So the Tory Ministry
of Albert Edgar Solomon goes out (it wasn’t
much loss), and the Labor Ministry of John
Earle comes in. It is Tasmania's second
Labor Ministry. The first one, which was
also Earle’s, lasted seven days in October,
1909. Earle’s trouble will, of course, be his
new-found friend with the tanked-sounding
designation. Presumably the Solomon crowd
will sit tight—not drunk, but tight—and
Earle will have to provide a Speaker. That
will reduce his majority to one, and the one
will probably be Whitsitt. And if Whitsitt
gets extra-swelled head, and resumes his job
of king-making, affairs will be back where
they were.
The State Premiers’ Conference is a lin-
gering sort of creature. It discoursed at
length on railway problems, yet it couldn’t
quite decide on the necessity for a uniform
railway gauge, and after all the years of
thinking that have elapsed no member
seemed to have brought with him any defi-
nite proposition about the establishment of
a central authority which could establish a
uniform gauge. Everybody looked over the
top of everybody else’s head and wanted to
know, vaguely, if his State wasn’t liable to
be defrauded of 2d. in the allocation of the
cost of establishing a uniform gauge. Every-
body had an apparent desire to put his feet
up on something and wait results. Nobody
even mentioned the mono-rail —the new,
simple, cheap, swift device, which is at least
worth a scrap of investigation, inasmuch
as it threatens to send all the old railways
and gauges and sluggish devices into the
scrap-heap. In the end the matter was re-
ferred to somebody or other for considera-
tion or some substance of the kind.
“J.P.”: An attempt was made in Auck-
land (M.L.) recently to rope “Our Mr.
Brown” and “Our Miss Gibbs”
of the big rag palaces into a
union that would undertake to
put up a d ■r , °nt scrap for some-
thing more than very little per
week. But the well-meaning
effort fell down. The superiah
assistants, with their heads in
the air, refused to be classed as
beastly workers. They resisted
the attempt to obtain an award
and declined to have their
proud grovel torn from them.
Standing prostrate on their tall
abasement they wouldn’t be
interfered with. At one end
of the line is the large, cold
toiler who won’t have an agree-
ment, and at the other end is
the wild, hot toiler who won’t keep an agree-
ment. There are not many of them, but
they make things difficult for the sane in-
dividual in between.
The servile press having neglected an obvi-
ous duty, The Bulletin takes it upon itself
to warn Society that, if it addresses Lady
Helen Munro-Ferguson as Lady Munro the
act will amount to high treason.
THE UNINTENDED JEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The total public debt of the Commonwealth and
the six States is now well over £300,000,000, and it
is being rapidly increased. The public debt of New
South Wales is officially returned at rather more than
£112,000,000, but if everything was “uncovered” it
would be found that the amount is nearer
£117,000,000. The Treasurer (Mr. Holman) states
that the loan commitments for the year will be
dbout £8,500,000. — News item.
It may be asked in passing what are public debts.
—Remarkable Finance Note in the Sydney D.T.
Life nowadays is rather a dull, monotonous thing,
Because it is hard to emerge as a bandit or pirate
king
In stodgy, congested cities, with trams and police
and gas—•
All we do is to hold down our job like a dull, grey
ass.
It’s off in the morning early to factory, office, shop,
And busy at inane trifles for hours and hours we
stop;
Piffling, futile peezness, or grim, monotonous graft
Is strangling life and romance and sending millions
daft!
The same old, dreary programme, the same old, tepid
drink,
The same anaemic “pleasures,” the same old listless
think ;
And the same old, moaning papers’ “views” ponder-
ous and dark—
But, hold! by golden accident we find a sudden
spark!
A gleam, a glint of humor, unconscious, somewhat
crude,
But welcome, trebly welcome, amid the glooms that
brood
Above the sour, sad city that dares not live and throb
For one wild, glorious month, lest it should lose its
job !
The gods be praised who sent it—that Unintended
Jest!
A bubbling well of laughter—an oasis of rest —
A splash of splendid color against our sombre skies—
A gem, rare and entrancing, which we may hold and
prize!
For, lo! our glummest paper, which frowns on jokes
and fun,
A joyful and uplifting and pleasant thing has done!
Amid most weighty issues of business, bills and bets
It asks the casual question— What are Public Debts?
On reading this, with laughter the whole State was
convulsed;
The Wowser’s cold blood quickened as through his
veins it pulsed !
And frigid-faced archbishops and Holy Willies glum
Relaxed their looks a moment, and smiled, and
muttered “Hum t”
Oh, lightsome, brightsome Question! What answer
can we give ?
On public debts we lean to-day—on public debts we
live:
Yet, after all, what are they—but trifles, light as air,
Mere airy nothings—bagatelles—as Holman will de-
clare.
White thistle-downs and smoke wreaths that, through
the burning day,
Ascending to the deep, clear blue float tranquilly
away—
Away into the Ewigkeit, to be for ever lost
And leave no trace behind them of Interest and Cost!
Ethereal and fairy-like are public debts! Frail things,
Mere loany webs and gossamers that float on sheeny
wings!
Away, away! they dance and drift upon each
zephyr’s breath—-
Our profits, rapt from earth to Heaven, that shall
not look to death!
Far, far beyond the utmost bound of overarching
blue,
The public debts may all be found, safe in their
I OU!
Oh, never let us grieve! We have this consolation
vast—■
Our public debts are dear, delightful memories of the
past!
N.S.W.
MONTY PERT.


Easter Visitors! Don’t Miss
AN EARLY OPPORTUNITY of visiting our large and up-to-date Musical
Warehouse before you leave Sydney, and inspect our magnificent display of
the WORLD’S FOREMOST ” PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS, COMBINA-
TION PIANOS, ORGANS and every other known musical instrument.
It takes two large buildings, in George Street and Ash Street, Sydney, to
accommodate our large and complete stocks and show to advantage the superb
qualities of every instrument we sell.
A CORDIAL INVITATION is extended to Easter visitors and our ever-
increasing circle of country friends, who are specially invited to make a call
at our comfortable CL AVI OLA SALON and see for themselves.
I*
• •'
mu
Paling’s Display of RONISCH & LIPP
Claviola Player-Pianos
S 3
-9KC.7.
ir T¥l
y~ f j-i
r
rs
NO OTHER INSTRUMENT can possibly
bring you more lasting and genuine enjoy-
ment than a RONISCH or LIPP CLAVI-
OLA PLAYER-PIANO. Either of them
represents the highest-grade quality and the
best value in combination pianos obtainable
in Sydney or elsewhere. YOU HAVE TWO
INSTRUMENTS IN ONE. The famous
RONISCH, or LIPP PIANO, unequalled
the world over for Tone, Durability and
Artistic Finish, and the CLAVIOLA
PIANO-PLAYER, built within the case of
these superb pianos. This enables you to
use the piano in the ordinary way or to
entertain your family circle and friends
with the World’s Best Music, from Grand
Opera to the latest Pantomime or Ragtime
Melodies —and without ever having had a les-
son on the piano in your life. We would again
urge you to see PALING’S musical display
at 358 GEORGE STREET, the largest Musical Warehouse in Australia.
fgd
338 George Street,
SYDNEY
We sell on EASY TIME-PAYMENTS, if
desired, and exchange old or seldom-used
pianos at their utmost honest value. Our
Claviola Booklet, describing fully the Ron-
isch or Lipp Combination Pianos, also
Catalogues' and Price Lists of Pianos and all
other musical instruments are free.
Make a note of it. Call in to-day.
and at NEWCASTLE, LISMORE,
BRISBANE and TOOWOOMBA.
Ready-to-Wear
a Splendid Suit.
Leviathan-
Made in a Grand
Dark Grey Worsted . .
YOU'LL like the Fabric —there's
quality in its every thread. It
will wear as only a good worsted
can. It will not show dust. It
will not fade.
And you'll like the way we've
tailored it —the smart style of every
garment, the thoroughness of the
workmanship, the fine finish, the
extra-good quality linings and
trimmings we have used.
2S6e Coats are cat with roll lapels,
seam or vent backs, 2 breast pockets and
ticket pocket.
©6c Vests have four pockets and long
points.
®6c Trousers are cut wide at thigh
and have side pockets.
Price = = 551=
In Ordering state chest over waist-
coat, waist under waistcoat and inside leg
measures. We have graded the suit into
many sizes, and can promise an accurate
fit.
Remember —We pay freight on all
mail orders, and guarantee satisfaction or
your money back.
V
sJt
T/IA
jtr FULL VALVJE O GOOD STYLE
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets,
Melbourne
WHILE AT THE SHOW
Call at
HARRINGTONS’ STAND
in the
Royal Hall of Industries
and see the very latest model
CAMERAS
BIOSCOPES,
For the Picture Show or the Home,
Zeiss Field Glasses,
Lenses,
Photographic
Novelties, etc.
Dark Rooms will be available for amateurs’ use. There will
also be samples., booklets, catalogues, etc., free for the asking.
|TD
386 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY .
Branches in Each State and N,Z,
•4C. r


NIPPED IN THE BUD.
A Cold, Cough or Influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery for Coughs and Colds. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s.
Obtainable everywhere.*
Common sense is the wisdom which
appreciates. everyday facts at their true
value. It is not too common either. But
can be made more so by the occasional
assistance of King George IY. topnotch
whisky.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
HEIGHT Increased
If you are not over 40 years of age I can
Increase Your Height by from two to three
inches within three months.
No Medicines. Ordinary Habits Retained.
No appliances or drugs of any kind are used,
and it is impossible for my system to cause
overstrain or to injure the health in any
way. On the contrary, my students are in-
variably astonished at the tremendous improve-
ment in their health which my course pro-
duces.
All the time required to be devoted is 10
minutes morning and evening.
I do not ask you to make any drastic altera-
tion in your diet, your smoking, or your mode
of life.
GROW TALL, MY SYSTEM WILL
SHOW YOU HOW.
Send two penny stamps with your name and
address, for further particulars.
HUGH GIBSON,
Specialist In the
Increase of
Height,
Department 123, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
RHEUMATISM,
ALSO BILIOUSNESS AND CONSTIPA-
TION. CORRECTED BY DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
“My family always held a great opinion
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,” writes
Mrs. Stella Henry, of Wentworth Street,
Glen Innes, “and my mother was. cured of
rheumatism when all other remedies failed.
I can state personally that your medicine
is an excellent remedy for the cure of bil-
iousness and constipation. I am never
without your pills in my house, and they
are our family medicine and occupy a fore-
most position in the household. You can use
this testimony if desired for publication.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A nag that gives promise of developing
iinto an absolute world beater has just been un-
earthed ■in Uncle Samland, the country of fleet-
footed prads. Her name is Virginia Burnett, and,
although but two years old she is alleged to have
covered half a mile in lmin. Of see., under perfectly
legitimate conditions, without wind-shields, pacers or
any other kind of fancy faking. That is a staggering
performance for a two-year-old filly, and the nag’s
future record should be interesting. Still, the chances
ate it is a Yankee dodge like the springboard jump.
“0.K.”: If I were condemned at time of
* writing to pick a gee to run for my life in the
Doncaster (Melbourne) I would hesitate between
lowpit .and Lochano, and would probably give the
preference to. the mare. True, the six-furlongs
flutter at ’Flemington is a good trial for any that
are going to run in the Doncaster at Randwick.
Jolly Beggar, last year, and Broadsword, in 1911, won
the Sydney race after being placed for the New-
market. lownit has gone up 131 b. for his win, but
it was an honest easy victory. On the other hand,
Lochano won the Doncaster as a 3-year-old with
6st. 101 b., and the recent form of the revived mare,
now five years old’, 1 gives her a good chance with
Bst. 21b. She is obviously coming on. There are so
many “good things” in the Doncaster. Aleconner, the
Epsom winner, ran third in the recent Newmarket,
and will meet lownit on 81b. better terms. Brattle
and others are said to be “morals,” as though horse
racing had any morals to speak of. Still I fancy
Lochano best of the lot. Rathlea I would prefer
for the Sydney Cup, and The Parisian strikes me as
a likely winner, of the three miles w.f.a. event if
the old chap keeps sound meanwhile.
* * * •
Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing Club dis-
counts the weather by - selling the (shilling) gate
in advance, for its one meeting on Easter Monday.
The amount paid this yeir, £725, is not a record,
but the bidding for refreshment booths is, easily, and
the Club has £1327 in hand to play with before it
starts. The auction is always a popular scene, and
a sixpenny charge for admission brought a nice
little sum for the Disabled Jockeys’ Fund.
* * * *
Some Tote items: At the Hobart Turf
Club’s meeting (Tas.) on Saturday, St. Mungo, win-
ner of the April Plate Handicap from a field of eight,
paid a dividend of £22 3s. At Adelaide (S.A.)
Freya, winner of the Magill Welter in a field of 22,
returned £9 for each sovereign invested. At Perth
(W.A.) Gilowa, winner of the Glencoe Hurdles in a
field of 14, paid £7 for each 10s. invested. The
bookmakers laid eight to one versus the winner, and
the Tote paid £l4 to one. To those who can hear,
a word is as good as a kick.
* * * *
The latest athlete to try and come back in
Maoriland is Hector Burk, who retired as Mile
Champion Of the Borrowing Isles in 1906, in which
year he collected a considerable quantity of lime-
light through defeating the Fogland wonder, A. A.
Shrubb, from scratch over a mile at Christchurch.
Burk put on his shoes again the other day in Dunedin
and started in a two-mile event, but the required
condition was sadly absent, and he dropped out before
the finish.
* * * *
There was some mild excitement at Rose
Bay (Sydney) over the finish of the motor-boat race.
The long starters got clear away from the scratch
division, and had a great race between themselves,
in which Mr. Copeland’s Don and Mr. Steel’s Fifl
ran nose by point, with Mr. Louat’s Bellbird hover-
ing close by. But the Bellbird could not maintain
the pace, and the other two swept over the line
apparently together. The judge from bis place saw
that the nose of the Don crossed the line first, and
the gun spoke. It is not very often power boats
finish with a margin of only inches between them,
and when they do the members of the club display a
tendency to celebrate the occasion with wet goods.
Some time ago a writer in Sydney Sunday
Times pointed out that the Olympic swimming con-
tests are held in fresh water, and suggested that our
amphibians should do some training in the lighter
fluid. So last Saturday they held a carnival at
Parramatta (N.S.W.), the ancient town of roses and
oranges. The races took place in the upper waters
of the Parramatta, above the weir, where the sea
water does not penetrate, and the sensation of the
day was the defeat of champion Longworth in the
400 metres by Harold Hardwick. They were both
on scratch, and it soon became apparent that the
champion was not the same man in fresh water that
he is in salt. He was very low, very much sub-
merged, and seemed cumbersome. Hardwick, who has
had more experience in fresh water, was a model of
easy grace. They rose from the plunge together,
and Hardwick took the lead. Just after passing
200 metres Longworth ranged alongside. But
Hardwick increased the pace without difficulty, and
once more went to the front by a length. Then
Longworth made desperate efforts to overtake the
fish-like person in front. He exerted himself to the
uttermost over 20yds., and, apparently, burst his
engine without onee threatening Hardwick. Then
he fell back, and Hardwick paddled home an easy
winner by about 10yds. ; which, apparently, he could
have increased’ considerably. Longworth was even
beaten for second place by Samuel’ Smith. This
sort of shock should have a very beneficial result.
It shows that if our swimmers are to do themselves
and their country justice at the Olympiad, which
will next be held in Berlin, probably on the Spree,
it will be necessary for them to train in fresh water.
Fortunately, the fact has been discovered early enough
to give them ample time.
* * * *
Stanley Burtinshaw, of N.S.W., is easily
Australia’s champion bikist. At the just-pedalled
championships meeting at Brisbane, Stanley B.
won the half mile, the one mile, five and ten miles,
events, and left nary a ray of glory for the riders
from the other States. It is a lean year in amateur
cycling when one pedaller usurps all the honors
that arc floating around.
A record wliich is not heard of much these
days had a chip hacked off it at Hornsby (N.S.W.)
last Saturday, when H. Pritchard, of Tasmania, de-
feating A. J. Greentree in a wood-chopping match
for £5O, drove his axe through a 15-inch log in
47-Jsee. This is alleged to be better by 28sec. than
the existing world’s record. Anyhow, a man like
that is a useful body to have round the house on
washing day, or when the prodigal son is expected
home and the fatted calf has to be slain.
The Melbourne Champion of Champions
bowls final last week was a fearsome affair, whereat
weak hearts fluttered, strong hearts stood on end,
and the shades of ancient Rome and dilapidated
Gr'eece left the Elysian fields to gaze and tremble.
E. C. Belyea wiped the field with G. Vagg by 31
points to 30; after which the humbler sort fainted
and were revived with brandy. “Champion of
Champions!” It beats even “King of Kings.”
At last the Australasian tour of Hawaiian
swimming marvel, Duke Kahanamoku, seems to be
assured. After much talk and flam it is definitely
announced that each State Swimming Association
will chaperone Peer and give him a hefty time
within its gates. The burden of that ugly factor
known as General Expenses will fall proportionately
on the various States and Maoriland. If only half
that is said of Duke is true, he should be worth
going some distance to see.
Consider the progress of Miss Fanny
Durack, the Australian mermaid during the just
closed season; and then, bow the knee and doff the
cady. All the world’s amateur records from 50yds.
to a mile smashed and scattered. Here are her
deeds to speak for themselves: —
50 Yards—29sec.
100 Yards—66sec.
100 Metres —lmin. 18 l-ssee.
220 Yards —2min. 57 l-ssec.
300 Yards —4min. 12sec.
300 Metres —-4 min. 43 3-ssec.
440 Yards —6 min. 17 sec.
880 Yards —12min. 52sec.
1320 Yards —19min. 31sec.
1760 Yards—26min. Bsec.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” tribute: —
Amongst recent seratchings on the Track of Time
was James Mitchell, of Table Top, Albury, a sport-
ing notable, aged 79 years. He was said to be the
closest man upon the Australian turf. If he had a
horse entered at a country meeting he led his beast
in to save the gate fee.
N.S.W. Rifle Association has a ponderous
programme for its big meeting at Randwiclt (Syd-
ney) on October 8. Altogether £6500 is offered in
prize-money, with “The Kina’s” and “Longfield Ag-
gregate each absorbing £1000; while the “Service”
and general matches are well provided for. 'the
N.R.A. deserves all the spare thanks of Australians
for its handling of rifle-shooting—a system which
would be still better if the Defence authorities en-
larged the target space for those willing to take
part in the most particular branch of the art of
national defence.
GOOD NIGHT!
Pelkey oversleeps himself in the 19th round of
his argument with Bill Lang (Sydney Stadium).
Anthony F. Wilding and Norman Brookes
(Australasia) are shaking the lawn tennis dovecotes
at the other end of the world. In the final of the
International Doubles, at Cannes, last week, the
brethren from this end wiped the deck with a stiff
combination of Gordon Lowe (Eng.), and Decugis
(France) in three straight sets—6-1, 6-4, 6-1. In
the singles final, Wilding and Brookes had the tussle
between them, and the Maorilander defeated Brookes
by 6-4, 6-2, 6-1. These matches suggest that the
brethren from Australasia are in rare buckle for
their fight for the Davis Cup.
The 13-th and final round of Sydney First-
Grade Cricket commenced on Saturday, and raged
with considerable fury under conditions that should
have been conducive to big batting scores. But, on
the whole, it was a bowlers’ day. Not a single
century was registered, and the highest score was
that of J. C. Barnes, of Redfern, who smote 81
before Callaway, of Paddington, bowled him. Even
the great little C. G. Macartney, Gordon’s mighty
striker, could lift only 62 on to the board. N. P.
Cohen, of Sydney, slogged 60, and F. Rix, of Red-
fern, notched 53. These were the only batsmen who
got past the half-century. University made a bad
start against Waverley, which hit up 145 before
University got the last wicket down. And then
Flynn, of Waverley, got two Uni. sticks for nine
runs, and Sheppard bagged another two for six, so
Uni. ended the day with four wickets down for 16.
Uni’s outlook is the color of the sky on a fine day.
Sydney put up a neat, business-like performance
against Central Cumberland. Only two of the bats-
men failed to reach double figures, and the side
carefully put together 243. Central Cumberland
went to the timber and accumulated 16 for the loss
of a single wicket. Gordon did not display its
accustomed capacity against Western Suburbs. Only
two of its men failed to reach double figures, but its
stars did not coruscate, and the Western Suburbs
bowlers dismissed the lot for 218. Western Suburbs
then hit 30 without striking any trouble whatever.
Petersham and Glebe put up a curious struggle.
Petersham found Ifelleway, back from Maoriland, a
very awkward’ bowler, and he bagged five wickets (four
of them bowled) for 32. The side vanished for a
miserable total of 62. Glebe went to the sticks
in a state of wild elation. But, alas, for bright
hopes f Andrews bowled better for Petersham than
Tvelleway had for Glebe, and bagged six wickets for
14 runs. Four men failed to score at all, and
another was absent at a funeral, or collecting a
bad debt, or something. Kelleway’s 35 was the
highest score, and Buckle (13) was the only other
man to reach double figures. When the last wicket
fell Glebe’s score was also 62. Back aghin, Peter-
sham hit up 37 for the loss of two wickets, which
was nothing to cable to George V. about. North
Sydney raged like the heathen is reputed to do in
his blindness, and, dismissing Middle Harbor for 90,
rushed to the wickets and hit up 148 for three
sticks. The damage was done by Long, with five
wickets for 45 runs, and Moore, with three for 44.
Redfern made the highest score and monopolised
the wicket all the afternoon, accumulating 324 for
the loss of eight batsmen. A much bigger loss is
liable to happen any day in a Mexican revolution.
Reg Baker seems to be having a merry
time with Carpentier, of France. Having got the elus-
ive Gaul at last tied up under a reported contract to
come to Australia and receive £ 10,000 for three
fights, Baker gave himself up to mild frivolity. But
in the midst of his pleasures, it is said, he was
brought up by the sudden demand of the Frenchman
that £II,OOO should be deposited in a bank to be
nominated by Carpentier. The cables are silent as to
what “Snowy” said on the subject. It would be
astonishing if the cables repeated it.
* * * *
Melbourne referee, Angelo Marre, one of
the best judges and most impartial men the Lord
of Battles ever put breath into, struck the White
Australia sentiment. on Saturday night-—or, rather
the sentiment struck him. Brooks, the English
boxer, was fighting Lee Johnson, the Burns colored
protdgg, at Melbourne Stadium. Brooks used a good
left, but failed utterly to follow up with the right and
clinch the bargain, so to speak, and Lee Johnson fought
cleverly with both hands. For three rounds Brooks’s
straight left baffled Johnson, and well-nigh broke him
up. After that he succeeded in dodging it. 1-le
went down twice, apparently through slipping, but
the crowd imagined he had been battered down.
After the 10th Brooks tired, while Johnson didn’t,
and the latter used his strength for all it was worth.
Brooks’s energy had gone, and when he did land
blows they took no effect. For the last three
rounds he was fighting merely to see the thing
through. The decision seems to have been the only
possible one, but the crowd turned the black man
down and roared disapporval. It’s good patriotism,
but rotten sport.
On Saturday night at Sydney Stadium,
Dave Smith is to be given one more chance to re-
trieve his two defeats by Eddie McGoorty. The
argument advanced by hundreds of correspondents
who demanded that the Stadium should give him the
opportunity was that the first affair was an accident;
the second was a case of the Indian Sign, and that,
having found he still lives in spite of McGoorty,
Dave Smith will have got over the influence of the
alleged witchcraft. Probably the thing that did
most to dissipate the effects of the evil eye was the
showing put up by Pat Bradley against McGoorty.
Dave Smith had beaten Pat Bradley and done it
much more decisively than McGoorty did; and Smith
saw the showing Bradley made, and marvelled at his
own downfall. Also, he burned to have another
show against the conqueror. Now he has got it.
The fight will draw one of the biggest crowds the
Stadium has seen, and there will be an awful strain
of anxiety during the first round. That strain
could be felt the night Pat; Bradley faced McGoorty,
with the glory of Smith’s still fresh on him.
It was a very silent round, but when the crowd saw
Pat skip lightly to his corner the riot was deafen-
ing. When Jeff Smith faced the man with the left
hook there was a trace of the same strain; but it
was not the intense feeling that marked the battle
with Bradley.
* * * *
Interviewed by Frank Hill, of the
Theatre Magazine the other week, Tahmmy
Burns admitted that he sincerely regretted
ever having fought Jack Johnson, and threw
some interesting light on the events that
led up to that disastrous disturbance. Burns
was careful to explain it was not the memory of the
defeat that made him sad—that was all in the game.
What consumes his reins was the fact that he was
even the innocent means of elevating the notorious
nigger to the eminence that enabled him to run
such an awful rig to the detriment of the sport.
Mclntosh was very anxious to bring off the match,
and offered Burns the then lordly sum of £4OOO,
or half the gate. But Burns was not anxious to
meet Johnson—in fact, he was distinctly anxious to
avoid him, feeling instinctively that the towering
black was too big and heavy for him. And, of
course, he and Johnson are -not nearlv in the same
class. Burns is only a light heavyweight; whereas
Johnson is an infernally heavy heavyweight. So Burns
cut out the half-gate proposition, and- fixed the price
at what he considered the utterly-impossible figure of
£6OOO. He says he never dreamed that Mclntosh
or anyone else would put up such an enormous purse.
But he did not know Mclntosh —a man to whom all
things are possible. And he fell down dead twice with
sheer astonishment when Mclntosh remarked cheer-
fully he would put up the £6OOO. Having made
an offer that had been accepted, Burns was too
proud to back out of it, and saw the thing through
to the bitter end. He would have done better had
he accepted half the gate. The portal panned
out for £26.000; so he would have been £7OOO
better off. That is the sort of thing that hurts
worse than a walloping. Burns thinks that had he
drawn the Color line he would still have been heavy-
weight champion of the world, and he is still
willing to take on Carpentier for £3OOO.
He would have to take off about 201 b. of super-
fluous meat to get fit, and then he would be
about 101 b. heavier than he was when he fought
Johnson. On that occasion, by the way, he was
about 81b. under his then normal fighting weight.
Whether Baker will consider the advisability of
putting on the scrap is impossible to say. If he did,
it would be a tremendous draw.
Australia is not the only place where a
man has to use a burglar outfit to break into a
cricket team. On recent performances Patrick is the
best bat in The Great Loan Land this season, and
yet he had to struggle to get into the Canterbury
rep. team let alone the M.L. Test Eleven. Picked
on his merits he toured Australia with disappointing
results. On his return, he was left out of the team
to go south and play for Canterbury against Otago
for the Plunket Shield. Three of the chosen couldn’t
make the trip, so Patrick was sent, and made a dash-
ing century—the best innings played for Canterbury
for many seasons—but still he wasn’t picked for the
first M.L. Test Team. At the last minute he was
pushed into the Canterbury team to play Australia,
and gave a splendid exhibition; then, again at the
eleventh hour, he was sent to Dunedin to fill an
unexpected vacancy in the M.L. Team, and came to
light with two good scores, including an aggressive
66 n.o. Through someone being hurt he got into
the Canterbury team for the return match against
Australia, and promptly banged 28 and 78. Then,
after all this struggling and gap-stopping, he was
actually picked to play in the M.L. Team for the
Second Test at Auckland. It seems remarkable that
three weeks ago the best bat in M.L. should owe his
inclusion in the Canterbury team to a pure accident.
The gentleman who loves to see his stoush
served up by big men with hard wallops was well
catered for on Saturday night at Sydney Stadium.
Lang displayed a fathom of himself when he stood
up in the ring; and Pelkey was an inch longer.
Lang had a reach of 774 in., and Pelkey went the
whole 78in. Lang’s normal chest development was
42in., and Pelkey’s 43in., and there was 13st. 131 b.
of Lang and 14st. 81b. of Pelkey. What advantage
there was rested with Arthur Pelkey, though in age
they were practically equal, each being in his 31st
year. They were in splendid condition, Sam McVea
having had Lang in hand, while Pelkey had the bene-
fit of the whole of the American kennel in ;his
preparation. The general impression was that Lang
had taken the short road to ruin, and all those who
loved him turned up cheerfully to see Pelkey ruin
him. And apparently there are an awful lot of
people in Sydney who love Lang. Pelkey assumed
the offensive and tried to bury his right in Lang’s
interior, and as he thwacked it home he carefully
eluded Lang’s left lead. Pelkey came again twice
with the right, but Lang happened not to be there
at the moment. The reason was that he had left.
Pelkey let fly a broadside and a couple of them
caught Lang on the top piece. Pelkey was doing
darned fine splendid, and felt like a country house,
with a park and a grouse moor and a costly billiard
table, when Lang drove a straight left, and Pelkey's
head shot right back. Then the gong went, and
Pelkey picked up his head, so to speak, and put it
under his arm, and skipped lightly as an
inebriated elephant to his corner. After the dis-
plays of dazzling speed to which we have been treated
of late the heavyweights seemed strangely slow
The opening of the second saw Pelkey fight some
fight and practically get all over Lang, but thp
Australian kept plugging away with the straight
left, and somehow Pelkey kept pushing his nose
against it, to the detriment of the smeller. In the
third volume Lang seemed to suddenly wilt and
forget how to use his hands. A right smash to
the head had apparently destroyed his thinking power,
and his capacity for writing books on abstruse sub-
jects was suspended. Pelkey, when he realised the
fact, sent along a blizzard of left and right swings.
The floor rose up and supported Lang. At eight he
scrambled up and Pelkey rushed in with all his
heart, soul and both fists, and said he would give his
kingdom for a horse, or words to that effect. Again
the floor rose up and supported Lang. But he was
full of sand, and scrambling up he hit Pelkey on the
nose and managed to keep on his feet till the gong
brought respite. The way Lang brightened up
during the minute spell was wonderful. Pelkey.
rushing in to finish the job was met agjai riband
some more with that straight left, till he began to
get dizzy and whirly, and to see the crowd flying
round like the Book of Revelation. The crowd
went mad. Lang was piling up points. Then just
on time he swung a right that made Pelkey very
shaky. Thereafter it was mostly heavy but slow
hitting. The luck changed. They battered away
at one another with varying success, but with Pelkey
slowly getting the better of it on points, and occas-
ionally getting home heavy ones that shook Lang so
that had Pelkey been a good finisher the scrap was
over. Pelkey apparently has no idea of how to kill.
Lang took terrific punishment, and in the eighth lie
weathered a cyclone of uppercuts that ought to
have laid out a mule. In the 11th, Lang’s straight
left did a lot of damage to Pelkey’s countenance, but
at last the Canadian got past it and with a terrific
right shock got Lang in a bad way. Again Pelkev
showed inability to break the bruised reed, and while
he was trying to break something Lang drove a right
to the body and a left to the head that turned the
tide. After that the tide kept rising, and the argosv
of Lang floated on its bosom. By the end of the 15th
Pelkey began to tire and became deadly slow, so that
Lang easily dodged him. But he was so far ahead that
only a knock-out could bring victory to the weary
Australian, and he tried desperately for it. The 17th
saw Pelkey in full flight and Lang crowding after
him. The 18th was likewise. This time Lang all but
got his man; but the gong saved him. Half-way
through the 19th Pelkey pulled some traces of him-
self together and attacked with a left swing. Lang
countered with the right and got home on the chin.
Pelkey’s hands dropped, his knees resigned, his feet
slumped, his backbone became insolvent and paid 2d.
in the £, and then he went down in a heap like
baggy pants. He struggled up at eight, and this time
Lang remembered. He rushed at things. He smote
good and hard. Then Pelkey was out and William
Lang was receiving the best ovation in all his biog-
raphy.
The outstanding feature of the scrap was the in-
domitable courage of Bill Lang. The amount of in-
sult. he assimilated was tremendous. Over and over
again he was all but out, and only by sheer will
power he forced his legs to resume their job and his
sagging fists to strike. And that was his saving grace.
Only in the third round did he cease to hit. No
matter how bad he might be after that he hit, and
kept on hitting, and every time he hit Pelkey on the
nose the Canadian’s finishing wallop went wild and
the wild American realised that Lang could still
sting. Lang’s recuperative power was wonderful.
Seen after the fight, a rub-down and a rest, he smiled
cheerfully across a glass of champagne while he held
court amidst a throng of admirers, thoroughly pleased
with himself—as he had good reason to be. His show-
ing was one of the most telling bits of evidence as to
the value of a good straight left seen in the Stadium
for many a day. It is quite different from Stone’s
quick, snappy straight left. It is a sort of permanent
rampart outside of which the foe rages furiously but
is unable to do damage. Pelkey relied on a heavy
right jolt, but Lang’s defence was too scientific, and
in spite of his most desperate efforts the Canadian
was never able to get it on to the right spot. Worth
mention, too, that McVea is a most valuable second.
He missed no detail of the fight, and when Lang went
to his corner he had his view summarised into a
couple of sentences of easily remembered instructions,
which Lang followed most dutifully.
* # w #
Talking about seconds. Harry Stone
worked a great trick during his Sydney campaign.
Stone knew human nature and thoroughly realised
that last impressions are strongest. So his seconds
were instructed to let him know the exact moment
the round entered on the last ten seconds. Then
Stone would go berserk, and unfold a whole cata-
clysm before which everyone broke ground if he did
not absolutely run; and before the enemy could
pull himself together the gong would go with Stone
riding the crest of the tidal wave or the wings of
the hurricane amidst thunders of applause. And a
flabbergasted referee, trying to sort out the points
he should give for that last rush, would forget all
the points scored by the other fellow in the be-
ginning of the round. It was a stroke of genius.
* * * *
“Famous Fights at the Stadium.” This
is the title of a bright, breezv history of the great
glove battles at Sydney Stadium from the Burns-
Squires battle till tiie Eddie MeGoorty-Jeff Smith dis-
turbance. Told by 0. A. Jeffries, and reprinted from
the Sporting Page of Tiie Bulletin. Chock-full of
portraits of ring celebrities, including some of the
old-time giants, such as Peter Jackson, “Griffo” and
Bob Fitzsimmons. Good terms to booksellers. To be
retailed at One Shilling. Order from The Platypus
Press, 117 Bathurst Street, Sydney. Ready on
April B.*


STOP COURTING DISASTER.
LEARN TO DEFEND YOURSELF.
WM
I
i
l
I
I
I
i
l
l
i
I
I
l
i
i
i
i
i
I
I
II
I
i
if
I
I
i
I
1
i
Be wise in time. Learn to box now. Don’t
wait until the scars of battle convince you
of your need. Surely you’ve seen instances
enough of the inoffensive being unjustly set
upon. Just because they could not take their
own part. Perhaps you’ve been lucky so
far, but your turn will surely come.
Why not be certain of yourself by knowing
how to use your hands ? I can teach you to
be a skilful Boxer in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
Everything is thoroughly explained, and as
the instruction teaches the best moves of
the most celebrated modern champion boxers,
you can realise how much you can learn—
what an advantage you’ll have over your
fellows.
Here is an extract from a pupil’s letter. —
“The only way that I can get any
practice is by shadow sparring. They all
say around here that I hit too hard, and
won’t put the gloves on with me.”
J.S.E., Inglewood (Q.).
improve* * 1S excc^en *' P ro °f of the soundness of my tuition.
It will give you an idea how you can
„„ • W . h -I "S* & et f ! lller information, cost of tuition, etc. ? Write for
scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly send three penny stamps to
illustrated 32-page booklet,
cover cost of postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
311 Belmont Buildings,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T.C.WIUIAMS<2
p Richmond, i
Virginia. /
U.S.A.
WHITS BOSS
A. M. SOLOMON ,
173 PITT 3TRCET. SYONCY.
Smokers of
“White Rose” Tobacco
Please note that I am now Sole Agent
for this Tobacco in New South Wales.
“WHITE ROSE” is one of T. C.
Williams Co.’s (Virginia, U.S.A.)
famous high-grade tobaccos.
It is a tobacco that always smokes
cool —always satisfies. You will
get more enjoyment out of your smoke
if your tobacco is “WHITE ROSE.”
It is put up in one strength only
(Medium).
4oz tins, 2/-; Boz., 3/9; lib. tins,
7/6; Plug form, 7/- lb.
Postage: lib., N.S.W., 9d.; Inter-
State, 1/2. -
Write for a copy of my illustrated
Catalog—free on request.
A. M. SOLOMON,
CIGAR EXPERT,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is the good old
Shaving Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
Melbourne to Adelaide
flotor Record
Broken
by
Murray Aunger, Esq.,
by 5 hours 11 minutes,
using
“SHELL”
BENZINE
ISO
Why keep on scratch-
ing ? It is madden-
ing. Eczema is soothed
and healed with “ISO.”
Send 3d. (in stamps)
for liberal sample
tube to
2]
BLACK, Chemist, Collinerwood, Victoria.
KRUPPS
MINING and INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY
The Most
Modern, Efficient and Economical.
CONSULT US before deciding on any other.
WE ARE SPECIALISTS, in these lines.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
499 Bourke St., Melbourne; Bat Perth.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited
115 Clarence St., Sydney; Bat Brisbane.
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
S lv E S held at frequent
intervals by
A.M.L.sF.CO
LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
IN RIQNEY SHOES
you always find the best styles, and you
always get the best value because they are
made from the best of leather, and the best
shoemaking ability is put into the making.
The Boot shown is a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A High-grade,
Made-to-order Style.
Price - - 27/6
Also in Tan and Black Velour Calf, 25/-
and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog.
gfd
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street. BRISBANE.
a
w'
“T
■
JIL
c
m
X
o
\
■
■
You can keep the cost of
Motoring down by using
DUNLOP
TYRES
It’s the thick high-grade
Rubber Tread, the tremen-
dously strong casing and
scientific construction
that ensures “Dunlop”
users such a big
mileage and such
satisfaction.
They cost no more than
other tyres, but you get
better results.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
“John P.”: The law is a queer kind of
animal. Barmaids in Maoriland have to be
registered, but three pubs at Auckland re-
cently dodged a charge of employing un-
registered girls by contending that the
“rooms” wherein they worked were not bars.
It appears that, according to the Act, a bar
is a place that opens directly off the street
and not a place' where foaming pints are
handed out. So it looks as if the elaborate
barmaid restriction Act is down and out, as
it will now be possible to employ unregistered
angels in a room adjoining the bar. Some-
one once said the law was an ass, but it
looks more like an elephant thg,t doesn’t
know which way to go because it can’t de-
cide whether its trunk is its nose or its tail.
And mostly it isn’t.
“Billy T.” writes: —
News blows this way of an English Labor member,
a recent visitor to Australia, vyhose custom it is to
get utterly drunk, and they? wander at large with
his pockets full of House 1 of 'Commons soap. The
police of Westminster, finding a helpless but brilliant
person with a cargo of soap bearing the Parlia-
mentary brand,, always deliver him up to his wife
at his private address. So far, I understand, they
have never once brought the wrong man home.
There, is a good, grey Melbourne gent, of terrific
scholastic attainments who has a kindred weakness,
but he does not need the stimulus of strong drink.
He prigs restaurant towels and table-napkins,' and,' .
after a visit to the lavatory, is seen to bulge ’ with
the Arm’s goods. The people with whom he dines
charge the pinched or hooked drapery in the bill,
for he is a very great man, and not to be lumbered
with impunity. These two should come together,
and advertise for a partner who steals bath-
tubs and dams and reservoirs and waterholes. Then
the whole crowd could have no end of a wash.


UoeqCialM “DOLLOND”
Prismatic BioocGlar
The illustration below is a faithful comparison between the
“Dollond” Prismatic Binocular and that of an ordinary Binocular
of the same power. The outer circle shows the wider field of view
of the “Dollond.” You will at once see, be you Sportsman, Yachts-
man, Military-man or Racing enthusiast, the great advantage this
wider field of vision provides.
The “Dollond” Prismatic Binoculars are made with separate
focussing eye pieces, which permit of the maximum definition being
obtained with each eye. The focussing wheel is controlled by the
fingers alone —a great convenience when the other hand has to be
.used for some other purpose. A lighter, handier, more powerful
Binocular could not be desired.. It’s a life-long companion. Prices
range from £7/10/-.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA :
STEWART PAWSON’S,
Straijd Corner, 412 (Seorgc Street, Sydocy.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; &73t0 81 Regent St., W.
gfd
'mat,
11
03
m
;
-••• -*••—--
m€..--r:±
:::xz
%,r* T
////%
4^*
1^
•: - . •.. w
///fin
%
Sin*
If you’re fencing or earth-
boring, buy an
Iwatv Post
Hole Digger
It’§ heaps lighter to use than
crowbars and spades; sinks a
post-hole 4 times faster, and just about right
size for the post, and leaves little ramming
to do. Life is short fenough without you
sapping your vitality by old-fashioned fenc-
ing methods. The “Iwan” Digger is
going to save you time—give you time for
other work or recreation. Can you afford
tp be without one?
FOa 3 4 5"6 7 8 9 10 12 14in. posts
%- 7/- 7/- 7/- 7/6 8/6 9 6 10/- 27 - 34/- each
Imitations are abroad—but you can
only buy the genuine “ IWAN ” at
M^Pfiersoflg)
Proprietary Limited
“ Experts in Farm Tools,”
554-66 8 582-88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
&
<
*
v
Reliable RIFLES
The Rifles shown below are light-and handy for small
Game, but our Catalog, will tell you the right Gun for
all grades of Shooting from Sparrows ~to Buffalo.
fgdg
Stevens “little Scout ”-No. 3006-Take-
down 2 i Cal. Rifle. 18 in: round barrel, blued steel
butt plate, knife-edge front and open V rear sights.
Shoots .22 short, long, and long-rifle cartridges.
Price -
fgd
Winchester Model 1902 Rifle—3oll.
18 in. round barrel, American walnut stock, vulcanite
butt plate, steel pistol grip trigger guard. Shoots 1 Q/g
short and long cartridges. Price, with V rear sight /
With adjustable sporting sight, 20/-
ďfg
fgd
B.S. A Miniature
Rifle-
No. 3015—N0. 2 Model.
Weight, 5 lbs ;24 in. round barrel; screw adjustment back-
sight to 200 yards. Bead foresight; walnut stock; patent safety
bolt type action, self-cocking. Shoots .22 short, long and
long-rifle cartridges. Brice
32/6
fgd
Remington-UMC Hammerless Repeating
Rifle— No. 3027.—.22 Calibre. Action is strong and
simple, and has solid breech, side ejection, and fewer parts
than any other repeating rifle. Shoots .22 short, long,
and long-rifle cartridges. Weight, 4£ lbs. Barrel, 22 in. Price
45-
ďfg
Winchester Model 1890 Special-No 3031.-
Made to shoot the powerful .22 W.R.F. cartridge. One
of the best .22 hunting cartridges made. 5/ /6
Price >
Price fitted with Lyman 2 aperture rear sight and bead foresight, which
makes a fine hunting or target rifle, 77/6
V
1#
“Winchester Model* * 1892 Repeating
Carbine— No. 3034 —is made in 4 sizes—.2s-20, .32,
.38, and .44 calibres. Can be had with half magazine
carrying 6 shots, or full magazine'carrying 12. 20 in. round OQ/_
barrel. Adjustable sporting rear sight. Weight, about 53 lbs. Price '
ĝdf
Winchester 1903 Take-Down Auto-
matic Repeating Rifle— No. 3039.—10-shot,
automatic, hammerless repeating rifle, using 22 automatic
smokeless cartridges. Simple in construction and operation.
All that is necessary to shoot the 10 cartridges is to pull the trigger
for each shot The rifle can be fired as fast as the trigger can be
pulled. 20 in. round barrel. Weight about 5K lbs. gy g
PUIICU. 111. tUUiIU uaiiw. ’ ’ .
special expanding cartridges, this is a fine rifle for foxes, wallabies, etc. Price
Gunmakers and Cartridge Manufacturers
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
The “A.P.” Rifle Catalog contains 100
types of Sporting Rifles, suitable for all
kinds of game. Each of these can be had
with 12 different combinat o i of sights, so
the shooter has practically 1,000 Rifles to
choose from, prices: 10/-to £2O. Amongst
these are: 6 Rifles bv F.N. (Browning
Pistol Co); 3by Savage Arms Co.; 7by
Stevens Arms Co : 49 by The Winchester
Co.; sby Remington U M.C ; 20 by
Marlin Arms Co.: Bby the B.S A. Co.
Calibres .22 to .45/90. Ask for one -Free
I, J
tx
I
A Favorite the World Around.
Full octagon barrel, 24in., 4Jib. .22, .25, or
.32 calibre.
Automatic ejector in .22 calibre.
The FAVORITE RIFLE No. 27
For Sale by all Dealers in the Com-
monwealth.
Latest Rifle and Shotgun Catalogs and full
information supplied by
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. STEVENS ARMS & TOOL
COMPANY, C.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. [3
Before Purchasing
a Gun ask to see a
PIEPER BAYARD
dfg
dfg
LOW IN PRICE—HIGH IN QUALITY.
m
ms
Special Bayard
Features—
Built on Demi-
bloc System.
Purdie fore-end.
All Parts
Warranted.
Write to W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 875, Sydney, for Booklets, post free.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not giro them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


"Ross” Rifles and
"Ross” Ammunition
again lead at Bisley
dfgd
The Ross .280 ammunition
captured every single event in
the Match Rifle competitions
at Bisley, an unprecedented
achievement, and for the
second time in three years the
• 280 Calibre
High. Velocity •
1>
KING’S PRIZE, the
blue ribbon event of
the Bisley meet, was
won with a Ross
Rifle
"Ross” Rifles and
"Ross” Ammunition
are unsurpassed
for accuracy.
Sportsmen , all over
the world are adopt-
ing the ‘ ‘Hoss’ ’ not
only on account of its
accuracy but also
because of its very
quick and absolutely
> safe breech action.
Ross Sporting Ammunition with copper
tube expanding bullet (patented)ancliors
any game it fairly hits. Sportsmen
double their chances of success by using it.
Illustrated Catalogue and price lists
sent free on request.
Ross Rifle Co., Quebec, Canada.
Contractors to the Canadian Government.
Sporting Goods dealers find Ross Rifles a drawing
card ; correspondence solicited. 1-13-A
gfd
Keep Your
Tools in
Working
Order.
However expert a craftsman
may be, he cannot do first-class
work with dull,
tools. They must be keen;
cutting, perfect in action
before he can get good results.
“3-in-One” Oil
keeps all kinds of tools in
perfect condition.
Lubricates delicate action-
parts 3 makes metal bright and
Oleaii.
Three-In-One” Oil iS A
most effectual rust preventive!
"Won’t soil hands or clothes
—it is a highly refined Oil of
special quality.
Sold in Bottles and Handy
Pocket Oil Can.
Write far Free Sample Bottle.
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents,
22 M, Harris Street
Wellington. N.Z-
-JO
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Cbemlgta.
Cazimi
Cream
Will improve your complexion.
Promotes a healthy condition of
the skin by freeing it of all
impurities. Removes freckles,
sunburn, roughness and redness.
4/ £5 In u Prepared and Packed
/%J PCI Waia in Russia.
Cazimi Soap 1/6 Tablet
Cazimi Powder .... 1/6, 3/6 Box
From all Chemists, Stores or Toilet Parlors.
Wholesale Depot:
526 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
Big Ben—Two good alarms in one
Take your choice in Big Beil. He
rings either way you wish five
straight minutes or every other half
minute for all of ten minutes unless
you switch him off. He’s two alarms
in one.
If you’re a light sleeper, turn on
the half-minute taps before you go
to bed. If you sleep heavily, set the
five minute call. You can slumber
then without the get-up worry on
your mind.
When morning comes, and it’s an-
nounced by Big Ben’s jolly bell, you
can’t help getting up at once, for Big
Ben never fails to get you wide awake.
Big Ben is really three good clocks
in one, two excellent alarms and a
fine time-keeper to keep in any room
and tell time all day by.
If you have got to get up bright
and early, if you have to get down to
work on time, ask for Big Ben at
your jewellers, and try him for a
week. You’ll never want to be with-
out him afterwards.
Big Ben stands seven inches tall.
He is triple nickel-plated and wears
an inner vest of steel that insures
him for life. His big, bold figures
and hands are easy to read in the
dim morning light. His large, com-
fortable keys almost wind them-
selves. He rings five minutes steadily
or ten intermittently. If he is oiled
every other year, there is no telling
how long he will last.
Big Ben is made in La Salle,
Illinois, U.S.A., by Westclox. His
price is 12/6, postage 1/- extra. If
you cannot find him in your town,
send a money order to the makers’
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt
Street, Sydney. They will have
one mailed to you by the nearest
jeweller.
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens!
PHOSFERI
essas:
T<4tWk(. M 4 mm*
; UMMM U«H«
tail*only IV AjtfftlAffl
US~-*ysmrnmf*. L*4fdo
A
n
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
! J®
Science behind It—
PEBBCO is a complete
scientific ‘ health-course ’ for
the mouth and teeth.
Its alkaline properties correct the acidity
of the saliva, prevent bacterial inroads upon
the teeth, and deodorise the breath. Pebeco
imparts a pearly whiteness, arrests decay,
removes tartar, and by invigorating the
tissue remedies shrinking gums.
P€B€CO
TOOTH-PASTE
highly antiseptic, and if regularly used
prevents many diseases of the mouth and
throat. A sample of “ Pebeco,” and an
interesting test by which you may prove
is value, sent FREE. Of all chemists.
Large Tube 1/6, small l/-
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell St.,
Sydney (wholesale only).
THE LONE NANP
New Shape and Style. PRICE 6d.
Business, Robbery, etc,
A New Plymouth (M.L.) solicitor issued a record
summons the other day. A debtor, when threatened
with a ■ lump of blue paper, paid the account, but
didn’t add exchange to his cheque. So the frantic man
of law sued for the saxpence! He got it, too, with
10s. Costs! That’s about the proportion Costs usually
gets.
* * * *
The matrimonial advt. does not often take this
form (land-agent’s notice in the Adelaide dailies,
7/3/’l4) :
“ £9oo.—Forestville. Good home, garden, etc.;
marriage between seller and buyer arranged.”
“The cash buyer,” said Sherlock Holmes, “will pre-
sumably be a man. The vendor proposes to sell the
Home for £9OO cash, vet still to go on living in it.
Obviously, the Vendor is a Woman, and Scotch.”
* * # *
“Moana”: The recent reduction of 4d, per word on
cables between M.L. and Fogland reminds md that
the first cable between M.L. and the outside world
(via Australia) was opened to the public on February
22, 1876. The rates in those early days were very
sultry. To Sydney the first eight words cost 10s.,
and each additional word 94d.; to Tasmania, 17s. 6d.
for 10 words; to Fogland and Europe generally,
iOs. 6d. per Word plus 9s. 6d, extra for every 10
words (this being added to c'ttfiy the message to
Melbourne). The M.L. newspapers made a great
splash over the event, but, owing to the fush Of
private work on the day the cable was opened for
traffic, couldn’t get any messages through. The
second day, however, they were able to publish about
a dozen special cables from Reuter’s London office
and several items from Sydney and Melbourne. In
spite of the awful charges, 54 messages were re-
ceived and 39 were dispatched the first day. Since
then the rates have been slowly coming down until
now, owing to Socialism in the shape of the Pacific
cable, you can send your love to your best girl,
your wife, or the other chap’s wife, in Britain for
2s. Bd. per word. The next drop will be to Is. per
word, which I look upon as the irreducible minimum.
Before any further reduction comes wireless will
have wiped the cable out, and it will be a plaything
for the whale’s baby.
* * * *
“Night Owl”: “Rangan” (B. 6/3/’l4) reckons
the worst paid man in Australia is the sea-pilot. He
is wrong. Both the sky-pilot and the alleged pilot
of public opinion occupy a more insolvent position.
The parson’s lot is the more dreadful of the two, if
anything. A hundred per annum is reckoned a
lavish wage by many of them; and I know several
who exist on £1 per week. The country editor
who draws more than a fiver .a week is a rarity.
Often this variety of publicist gets £3 10s., every
Friday morning, and reckons himself lucky at that.
I personally know the wealthy owner of two organs
of public opinion who presents £ 2 a week in an
unostentatious way to the hirelings who make thun-
der for him when they’re not helping the comp, or
canvassing for advts, or dishing up the tripe produced
by local orators. There is a certain pomp and
glamor about the different forms of pilotry, but as
a means Of keeping the Wolf out of the bread-box,
give me drab old Wharf-lumping,
* * * *
taie of • Asiatic cunning: There is
a little strip of coral sand about 200 miles
from Hong Kong, on Which the seabirds have been
assiduously depositing guano since’ Noah subsided
owing to leakages, About 1909 a Yankee gunboat
was blown there While making HOng, Kong for re-
pairs. The Yanks found a Jap colony (about 700)
Working the manure, shell and seabirds’ feathers,
Which are the only things the place produces, except
house-fiies and mosquitoes. They rang up Pekin about it,
Pekin at that time had troubles enough of its own,
and the upshot of the affair was that the Japs, got
out With 200,000 taels (a tael is Worth 2s. Bd. sterling)
as compensation for improvement. It incidentally,
came out that the Japs, were using the place as a
gun-running base for South China, but as stated, the
Manchus had trouble in their own backyard, and
didn’t want to follow in Russia’s footprints. After a
while the Chinese Government attempted to work
the place itself, and succeeded in burning down the
manager’s premises, after the old Chinese idea of
burning down the house to roast the pig. Then it
stopped. When Sun Yat Sen had settled Yuan on
the republican throne, and the spoils were being
handed out, the concession to work the place was
given to a wealthy Straits Chinese, for value re-
ceived (in good Straits dollars). Writer was sent
out by the inevitable syndicate to report, and found
the place cleaned up like the bottom of a digger’s
claim. The syndicate is now looking for a diminu-
tive, bowing individual, by the name of Fujji, who
gaVe them a five-page report (post-dated nine years)
on the ‘ proposition, and got $5OO for his trouble.
Not that it expects to find him, but just on general
principles.
* * * *
A M.L. engineer named Robertson has invented a
contrivance that will obviate the damage that is
caused by the screw of a steamer racing while heavy
seas are raging an occurrence that causes incalcu-
lable damage to the engines. It is a brake governor,
which automatically absorbs the steam pressure as the
resistance to the propellers is slackened and releases
it directly it is reasserted, thus assuring a consist-
ency in. the number of revolutions. . The, inventor
claims that it will make as big a change in the
marine world as the Westinghouse brake did in regard
Ti' f A M.L. coastal steamer made a
successful trial of the new notion the other day.
ADVT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sdme little time back the managers of the new
Melbourne General Cemetery decided that it was
advisable to bring the advantages of their bona-fide
boneyard conspicuously under public notice by “judi-
cious advertising,” The cemetery was not receiving
the attention the fine site, excellent view, and attrac-
tive surroundings entitled it to. Now the manage-
ment is puzzling over the nature Of the “judicious
advertisements,” The Bulletin, with unusual mag-
nanimity, comes to the rescue.
’Tis said we go the same old way,
All down unto the common dust,
Hut M.G.C. officials say
It doesn’t follow that we must,
Not common dust they offer here,
Hut lovely sorts to make a bier.
The view is good, a pub is near.
You needn’t take the place on trust.
Just go out for a week and try.
If you don’t like you need not buy.
This much is true, five thousand strong
Are planted thefe on pallets quaint,
And none has found the system wrong—
And none has made the least complaint.
The chaps who try it for a day
Are never known to go away.
A quid a foot is all you pay.
There is no rent and no distraint,
On none the hated gasman waits,
And no one comes collecting rates.
Then why live on in suburbs vile,
Cooped up in bricks, when offered here
A lasting home (Egyptian style)
A most salubrious atmosphere?
The company is of the best,
All jovial spirits, yet so blessed
That none disturbs the other’s rest.
Arise, be sure the boom is near.
The skies are blue, the grass is lush —
Come early to avoid the crush!
victoria.
EDDYSON.


amount
liiS
w
Are Your Takings Insured Against Loss?
EVKRY business man insures liis stock and his premises
against fire —why ? Not because he thinks his place
will be burnt down, but because it might. It
is because of this ever-present possibility of loss that he
considers it worth paying a big premium each year to
feel safe. Yet. statistics show that only three shop-
keepers in 1000 sustain loss through fire.
Your money is more important than your stock,
because you sell your stock to get money — to make
Profit. Why, then, do you throw your money into a
drawer, uncounted and unprotected, when it is subject to
mistakes, carelessness, etc., that burn up your profits and
lose your money ?
You are probably more than paying the premium for
an up-to-date National Gash Register which will insure
your money—stop mistakes and losses —and make your
assistants more careful. If these claims are true they
certainly mean money to you, you will admit. AsK. us
to prove them.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office—ll 9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane._
339 Murray Street, Perth, W.A
80 Collins Street, Hobart.
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Street, Launceston.
Paul’s Chambers, Bolton Street, Newcastle.
MEN
We have never had a complaint
about the
Celebrated
*' FX AND R” CHRONOS.
The Movements are on the Lever
principle.
They have Brequet Overcoil Bal-
ance Springs.
They are Jewelled in 15 holes.
They have Compensated and Ad-
justed Balances.
They have Jewel Ruby Rollers.
They are Self-Registering to one-
fifth part of a second.
They stand hard riding, and keep
time to within 10 seconds a
month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years,
and kept in order {breakages
excepted) for 2 years.
They are a marvel of value.
f§j |
rm
m
'em
Very heavy 18ct.
Gold Cased Fx & R
Chronograph,
£27/10/-
15 years’ guarantee.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
Fairfax § Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Picture Showmen!
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
f KELVIN
GENERATING SET
The Silent
Empire Bioscope
and the
Kelvin Electric
Generating Sets
are unbeatable.
It is our business —and pleasure —to intro-
duce thfese machines to you. '
The Empire is built of Steel —a Special
Steel —that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS —Engine and Dynamo direct coupled—stand alone in the Picture World.
We have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted with
wheels. ; The .-Engine,, is ; Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiency. Send for our
Booklet on thgswwMachines.
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested?
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
- SYDNEY.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings
Bulletin size, Price, 21s.
printed
Three
. Full
OCEANMORE,
” Bondi,
Sydney.
OPPOSITE SWIMMING BATHS.
A delightful sojourn for the holiday seeker,
’mid sparkling seas, foamy surf and mighty
crags. Twenty minutes from city. , Terms,
from 55/-' weekly. ’Phone 669, Waverley.
I Mrs.) T. G. PHILLIPS.
A RECORD. The Filling at the
APOLLINARIS SPRING
daring the year 1913
EXCEEDED 40,000,000 BOTTLES.
For Motoring, Driving
and Travelling. . . .
MOSGIEL
RUGS
The Most Luxurious Rug Made!
Exquisitely Soft and Comfortable.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops.
[3
(
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fĝdf
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb & Co. on each Bottle.
dgf
HORLICKS
MALTED MILK
Advance
Australia!
Australians have al-
ways been noted for
knowing a good thing
when they see it,
and the enormous
popularity of Horlick’s Malted Milk in Australia
fully bears out this fact. Horlick s is the great
Food-Drink for all ages, from the feeding infant to
the aged and infirm, and for all ages in between.
It is ready for use and requires no cooking, and is
a delicious Food-Drink. It is. made under the
most hygienic conditions, and is the most easily
digested food beverage.
Ask Jot Horlick's at the Soda Fountain.
Headings of a sensational reform story
featured in the Salv’army War Cry of
21/3/’l4: “Tom Lawson —Horse Stealer !
Forger! ! Salvationist! !!” The positive,
comparative and superlative.
“Chasuble”: There has lately been a
momentous interview between the Pope and
the King of Uganda. The inexhaustible
Vatican resources provided an interpreter.
The King said that, although a member of
the Church of England, there was no min-
ister of religion he had desired to see so
much as the Holy Father. The Pope said
that he appreciated the great work of civili-
sation done in Uganda by the King, in con-
junction with the King of England and the
Church of England. The King left much
agitated. He said that after seeing the
Pope, and St. Peter’s, he did not care to
look at anything else in Rome. He sug-
gested that to do so would amount to an
anti-climax—like viewing 51 volume of pic-
ture postcards after a visit to the Louvre.
The “heresy” squabble in fAfrica may lead
the savage potentate to turn to the impres-
sive and well disciplined religion whose
appurtenances so impressed him in Rome.
I recently heard a prominent Australian
Methodist expatiate on the overwhelming
effect of Rome upon him. How much more
so with Sambo, the king !
“11.W.5.” steps forward, Bayard-like, to
assist lovely woman :
The Bulletin’s suggestion that harassed old
Britain might appease its females’ hunger for votes
by sending the more famished ones to Australia,
appeals to me powerfully. The ideal place for these
ladies is obviously Launceston (Tas.). There are
more votes available in this little centre than in
any other place of 20 times its size the entire world
over. All Suffragettes of 21 or over will be en-
titled to vote, under the block system, for three
members of the Launceston Marine Board, and for
three members of the Federal Senate. The same sec-
tion will vote for candidates for the Federal House
of Representatives, under the common single vote
system. For the Tasmanian House of Assembly they
will help to elect six members, under the Hare-
Clarke system. Such ladies as own up to 30 or
over, and who occupy property of the rental value
of £3O a year will get votes under the preferential
system for the Tasmanian House of Fat. If they
are ratepayers to the Launceston Municipal Council
they will get from one to five votes each, for three
(3) aldermen —all this under the block system. For
a paltry two bob they can join both the local Labor
and Liberal Leagues, and vote at the selection of
both candidates. In 1916 they will have a chance
of voting on the ifnperishable Been issue, and some
time this year they should be enabled to vote on the
Referenda questions. Surely all this should suffice
the veriest glutton for the suffrage. In the lnter-
vals of voting the new arrivals might devote them-
selves to waking the place up a bit.
A Melbourne alderman last week stumbled
against the fact that the motor vehicles pur-
chased by the local City Council are fitted
with “Made in Germany” tyres. Where-
upon he asked his brother aldermen why the
preference was not given to Australian-made
tyres if—as he understood —-they were equal
to the German article. The other aldermen
had no answer to the question, so it was
dropped and shattered. Melb. City Council
chamber is strewn, inches thick, with the
fragments of dropped, questions. Once a
quarter or so the d6bris is swept away.
This comes from a village in the remote
oarts of S’America :
He blew into this place about 18 months ago with
nis native grit and some little experience of hump-
ing the White Man’s burden as his chief assets. He
was just the rawest kind of “Gringo,” without any
Spanish; but he had done survey work in Queens-
land scrubs, and there being a demand for men like
that, he got busy, and at the end of a year was hold-
ing down a very decent job, and he held it down in
Spanish as weli as English. To occupy his leisure
time, he joined the local rowing club ; ahd although
he had never propelled anything slicker than a bark
canoe in pursuit of a winged duck, he managed to
scoop the pool a few days ago at the annual regatta.
While he was wondering in his modest way how he
did it, somebody pushed him in for the 100-metre
swim. The pilgrim from Australia’s northern strand
plunged with the bunch-, and the way he snaked past
the flag, with an English Johnnie second and the
local industry distributed right away from Dan to
Beersheba, was a thing of holy joy to this poor
exile Come to think of it, it is a calamity to be
born and raised in Australia away up north of
Capricorn.
The bucolic who comes to Sydney at
Easter-time to see the Show and get a taste
of romance and mystery into his trivial
life, will find heaps of the thing he de-
sires at the Great White City, ltushcutter’s Bay.
To the man who puts in 12 long, quiet months
among the gums, the place will appear as a veritable
Arabian Nights. When he passes through _jhe
vast entrance gates, aflare with lights from the
Russian domes to the turnstiles, he will gaze upon
a fairy-land. And wandering down the wide path-
way he will come to the Cave of the AVinds, and
be drawn into the vortex. In utter darkness, lit
only by spasmodic flashes from the floor, he will
pass through strange howling to where a devil
toasts a scrap of humanity over a red fire, and
pass on to where the winds of Hades make it neces-
sary to hang on to the hat. In the Fqn 1 actory he
will meet with strange noises and curious floors, and ,
finally find himself with a long slide and freedom.
In the Crystal Tangle he will find himself faced at
all turns but one With his own reflection, and when
he gets out of that it will be to fall into the uwze
of the London Door mystery. There he will find
lost maidens on the point of tears, and strayed tat
men on the verge of open cursing, arid then on to
the place where the tiny midgets give food . tor
profound reflection, while in their tiny treble voices
they warble the songs of Germany. After passing the
water circus, where he will see a whole family
dive into a tank and fail to reappear for about 10
minutes, he will hie him to the scenic railway, anu .
climb rapidly up stupendous heights among artificial
mountains, only to come roaring back to earth again
at something like 60 miles an hour, while nice
girls, utterly unknown before, cling to him tren-
ziedly. Then he may wander on to the aeroplane
and soar through the air, unsupported apparently
among a wilderness of golden stars. Down below
the Grand Carousal, a glorified merry-go-round, will
keen the youngsters .engaged the long night through,
while he wanders on to see the girls shot spiawling
from the Merrv Whirl, and takes the wife ' Ol ,
pleasant and dreamy trip in a boat through the
River Caves. There are about a hundred other
thincrs he may see, but these are enough.
“Lachlander” : This is the sort of thing I
hear every election :
Ladies and gentlemen, I re-al-ize that the lockiiig
of the Darling is to be the saving grace of this
great Western District. (Loud applause.) 1 will go
further, and say that the locking of the Darling is
the golden key which must eventually turn youi
barren holdings into smiling meadows and plains of
golden grain, and bring to you wealth beyond the
dreams of avarice. (Frantic cheers.) In conclu-
sion, I give you my word that I shall not rest con-
tent until the Darling is locked every five miles, from
Murray Bridge to Barrengun. (Frenzied pande-
monium. )
And then his Nibs is elected or outed. It’s
all the same to the Darling. Its yellow,
turbid flood rolls on to sea as it rolled in the
beginning.


;
THE EFFICIENT LAMP
MAZDA Drawn Wire Filament Lamps are
to be used exclusively in the lighting of the
PANAMA-PACIFIC EXPOSITION.
This is only one proof of the world-wide fame they have
attained owing to their reasonable cost and high efficiency.
Suitable for alternating or direct current. Large
quantities of all voltages and sizes always in stock.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC Ca
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS
PERTH, W. A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND. —The National Eleefpical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
A.E.Q. Tirrill Regulators
Do Not Require Skilled Mechanics or Electricians to
Operate them -
An A.E.G. Tirrill Regulator, automatically maintaining a constant voltage at tlie buss bars of an
driven wool combing and topping plant in Australia, has enabled the works to INCREASE THE OU
BY 20 PER CENT . WITH THE SAME PLANT, and save the cost of hand regulation.
Write for Leaflet, “ Automatic Voltage Regulator, KD235.”
AUSTRALIAN METAL COMPANY, LTD.
40-2 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. 172-6 William Street, MELBOURNE. Gilbert Place, ADELAIDE,
dgf
PATENT SUPERHEATED
STEAM LOCOMOBILE
iKassya— 15"
i
I'.X
•»
v/
ft...'
''i i r
1
1/&
f
%
C
. .J-
-•HtSI
■ k:
a a
S «
1 ,
I
/
/ w’ iA-
.‘V>-ii f M m %
mg®
is the most
Economical and Reliable
Power Plant in existence. The total
output is over ONE MILLION h.p.»
in use in the following; trades:
WOODWORKING
CERAMIC
IRON AND METAL WORKS
BUILDING
ELECTRIC LIGHTING AND POWER
STATIONS
MILLING
MINING
PAPER. AND PRINTING WORKS
QUARRIES
TEXTILE INDUSTRY
In addition to over 30 engines at
present in use or being' erected in
Australia, we booKed orders for
seven engines during last month.
LOCOMOBILES EXHIBITED ATIBUII DING AND ENGINEERING CONSTRUCTION EXHIBITION AT LEIPZIG.
Superheated Compound Locomobile, with R. W.Y. patent valve gear, 290-400 h.p.
Superheated High Pressure Locomobile, 45-70 h.p. Portable High Pressure Superheated Locomobile, 13-22 h.p.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES«
HAES & EGGERS, LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY. _


Shipping.
P. and O* BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted witn Wireless leiegrapny.
tintending passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths..
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H.’ D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3J% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to , £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Fanners and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors : lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon, ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.G.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Bommeree
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL . . . . £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. .. £1,195,446
RESERVE FUND . . . . . . £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Siieldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial Mutual [ile
assurance society limited
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
moderate and without restriction as to
travelling Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief'Office for New South Wales:
- 28 ELIZABETH STREET, -SYDNEY.
■ Directors:
The 'llon C. J. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretan
Shipping.
IVT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-*-l IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS.
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
*Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless. fThird-Class Only.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt's Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. k 0. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, kr.., on application.
OALOETY & COMPANY. LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY >
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Tt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 11.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 1
Leaves Sydney April 18.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons). *
Leaves Sydney April 11.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, April 18.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(viathe.Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. “MORINDA,”
APRIL 20.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Samarai, Woodlark
Island and Yule Island.
£2O.
ƒgd
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
New Steamer
“ MARSINA,”
MAY 1.
Calling at about ICO Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
£2s*
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9,350,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaurin, ivt., M.Li.C.
Tlie Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
■The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St.i E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£1,976,168 15 0
.. 1,680,000 0 0
. . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq Chairman
Hon H. E. Rater. M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shem.ey, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. IV. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinr.s.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |) eu| Z ealan <**
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid
up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profit
£1,000,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,304 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,486 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 77,506 . 0 0
£778,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. =====
Gen Man., Edvvd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories wrftHn in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
. Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co.tand S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
"pHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence- Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
■VOU begin to
9 ,Jpok old, with
those' grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleaqses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
i$S
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE A
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports. .
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (7785
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday
April 11 and May 9.
(Carrying First, and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
MARLOO, April 11.
GRANTARA, April 18.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
+
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA',
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M..
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND 1
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS:.
FIRST AND SECOND CI,ASS.
SAILINGS :
*New triple-screw steamer, fitted with
luxe en suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
(Sails 10 a.m. Monday, April 6.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STPAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL.)
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE .
12,500 Tons.
BRISBANE,
SYDNEY
HOBART
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
CAPTAIN PRENTICE.
APRIL 9, 1914.
APRIL 25. 1914.
APRIL 30, 1914.
MAY 2, 1914.
MAY 5, 1914.
Fares to London: Saloon, £4O to £45.
Third-Class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, from Brisbane, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-bertli
and family cabins on the Upper Deck amidships, in-
cluding Lounge arid Smoke Rooms. Well lighted and
ventilated cabins and spacious decks. Third-class
passengers...supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless .
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to ,
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,.
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.,
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Hud dart Parker Line..
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
"Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction..
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy..
Maintaining regular services between'
COMMONWEALTH tc ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS'.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
n
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


Hotels. &c.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hold is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfort able, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND'COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGIIT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
ďgf
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown; Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, ' Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
L ...TRY THE... 4
0 0 o Q Q O o o o Q
H-E-ZON
Accordeons
The World !s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
00
00
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
gdf
Bank of Bustralta
SYDNEY
Phis Bank is open for all classes cl GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS at
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign "Warded to
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part ot the world. Bills negotiated or lorw arded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
N.S.W. Branch Office : BERESFORD CHAMBERS, 30 CASTLEREAGH BTREET
(top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
I ranches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KKT° D.l, Oo.„.« »«■ B™*® »«***•
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Health-y and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tounst, me
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TKOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
TRY A “PLUM” RAZOR.
a*"
Then you’ll smile the glad smile of satisfaction.
■Why?—simply because a Plum Razor shaves easy—leaves the skin soft
and smooth —does not irritate —cuts clear and clean —always ready tor
use.
The blade of a Plum is made from the finest silver steel —tempered so
accurately that it keeps a keen edge indefinitely.
Your morning shave will be a daily delight if you use a Plum Razor.
ORDER ONE TO-DAY. PRICE 10/6, POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-'
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a very handsome
present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
1 1''v
Vv/ 1
; VV
ass
m
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FouittamPen
“ SAFETY ” Type—No matter how
carried IT WILL NOT LEAK.
Upside down in pocket or bag—doesn’t matter a bit.
The Pen can’t leak —it’s sealed when open and sealed
when closed. As a pen —absolutely efficient. Writes
smoothly, without spurting or faltering ;
lasts a lifetime. Nibs to suit every hand.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
LONDON, Enzland.
Australia : 350. Georze St, Sydney. Write for Booklet.
.•Mi, i
r W'
«1
II
m
il
11
II
ABBEY
SHOES
you get the best materials and
comfort, in a style to suit your
taste.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
Made-to-order Style. ■ All Patent
Derby Bal., Leather Lined, 32/6.
Same style in highest-grade Dark
Tan Willow Calf, 32/6.
Postage extra.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
dgf
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.” •, .
“ \rabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest -ale of
any* Hair Stain ©n the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price I/- and i/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
ONCE, BIT TWICE SHY.
How many unfortunate Engine Buyers in this State now wish they had profited
by their neighbor’s experience and purchased a
“MARSHALL” Steam Engine
gdf
Made by thoroughly competent BRITISH workmen from the very
best materials the world produces.
THE MARSHALL
represents the Highest Grade and Most Reliable Engine ever
offered for sale in this or any other country.
Take no chances, but pin your faith to an article with a reputation. Latest Pattern Portables, all sizes, 2t040 h p.
Steam and Oil Tractors. Vertical and Horizontal Stationary Engines. Vertical and Colonial Type Boilers.
BEST POSSIBLE TERMS. Discount for Cash. Descriptive Catalogs Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE YOU ALWAYS GET A FAIR DEAL


A Watertight
Bostock Boot
Weight 41bs.
Advocated especially for surveying pur-
poses. Really a Shooting Boot of
superlative excellence, and very
popular in New Guinea and Papua.
Tan Calf Lace Boot; Heavy
Soles; absolutely Water-
tight.
PLEASE SAY
WHAT SIZE.
Mm
45/-
PAIR.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED BRISBANE
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for -all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. . NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Startling heading in Toowoomba
Chronicle :
Lady Macgregor Fosters Downs Bacon.
Then follows a statement that the vice-reine
used only Toowoomba bacon during the year
1913. How well they understand the true
use of gubernatorial appurtenances in
Bananaland !
“Rangan,” about a pioneer warrior: —
Bananaland’s miniature training ship Gayundah
has just completed 30 years’ service, and has been
sent away to be half-soled and to have a new button
or two sewn on. It is several years since the Gayun-
dah prepared for its first and last engagement,
which, however, didn’t come off. Towards the end
of the ’Bo’s the monster lay in the Brisbane River.
There was a row about the ship’s accounts, and the
captain, who was a British officer of tremendous
brass-bound consequence, was asked to explain some
alleged discrepancy in the cash. He grew wrathy,
explained that he was a full-blown Englishman,
cast off his allegiance, cast off the mooring lines,
cast much language off his chest, and prepared to
go away with Queensland’s pet warship and join the
British fleet, or become a _pirate, or something.
Two events stopped him: the police rushed his vessel,
and he was informed that the fort at Lytton would
fire on him if he tried to escape from the river.
So amid rage and dignity the man with the sus-
pected shortage in his cash retired from his ship,
and his after fate didn’t concern Queensland.
“Boro-Belle”: Mackay’s big harbor
scheme, commenced three months ago, has
collapsed, and over 100 men have been paid
off. The failure is due to quicksand being
encountered along the proposed route of the
2j miles of viaduct across the beach to Flat
Top Island, where tw&big breakwaters were
being constructed to form a horseshoe-
shaped harbor. The viaduct was to have
carried the railway, but when the first test
pile was put down, and a 20-ton weight
applied, it sank deep below the estimated
depth of 18ft., in fact, bottom was only
reached at 42ft. As the Harbor Commis-
sion, consisting of Engineers Keele (of
Sydney) and Cullen (of Brisbane) had esti-
mated the cost of the scheme at £350,000, on
the assumption of an 18ft. depth, the extra
distance put the ferro-conej-ete structure out
of court, and borings find are
now being carried out to Seb if iron screw
piles will answer the purpose. Meanwhile,
as contracts had been let abroad for material
(such was the breathless anxiety of-Mackay
to push ahead with the work), the Sydney
Harbor Trust has taken 200 tons of the 600
tons of steel ordered, while the Rockhampton
Harbor Board has agreed to store nearly all
the balance free of charge, and of 2000 casks
of impqrted cement, more than half has been
disposed of. Up to date £lB,OOO has been
expended, and the Board members are now
rooting up past records to discover how it
came about that the Harbor Commission
was assured that borings to 18ft. had dis-
closed a suitable foundation. When the
land agent is discovered his luck will be
right out.
Nine months ago the Denham Government
appointed three well-known Bananalanders
to the Legislative Council. With the death
last week of E. B. Forrest the trio of ap-
pointees (Cribb, Collins and Forrest) have
passed away, leaving blanks for fresh Tory
appointments. Forrest was a fine, bluff,
hearty citizen, for 50 years a Brisbane
yachtsman, for 40 years a Q. politician,
for 30 years or more a musical enthusiast.
His political nickname of “Pom-Pom,” a
tribute to his peculiar style of eloquence,
stuck to him to the last, and his popularity
with political friend and adversary also clave
to him closer than a bailiff.
“Rangan”: A Bananaland prisoner did
rather a neat glide from St. Helena a few
days back- At the dead of night, or to be
exact, 6 o’clock one evening, he dragged a
bath tub to the beach. An observant warder,
thinking he intended to have a bath, took
no notice of his action. But when later he
was seen to carry a table to the same spot
the warder grew suspicious, and thinking
that a moonlight flitting was intended, crept
to the beach, only to see the ex-prisoner
crossing the passage on his furniture. He
was going on the land.
“Rangan”: To the initiated the naviga-
tion of Bananaland’s coast tends to bring
A GENEROUS TIP.
PORTER (as train begins to move): “ Here's your ticket, sir. Three and fourpence it cost.”
FLURRIED GENT: "Thank you, my man. There’s three shillings, Keep the fourptnce
for yourself.”
on premature old age, but to the infrequent
navigator of those waters even an early
old age is forbidden. It passes all reason-
able understanding why dangerous rocks
and shoals are still unmarked, but left hid-
den to tear the bottoms out of unsuspecting
ships. Smith’s rock has stood since Crea-
tion, or even earlier, right in the entrance
to Moreton Bay, and only shows 7ft. of
water at low tide. The other day it brought
about its third disaster by sending to the
bottom with half the .crew the French ship
St. Paul. It has previously accounted for
the Aarhus (in ’941 and the Waipara (in
’O9), though the latter managed to struggle
to the. shore after the whack. Yet its only
mark is a black buoy (invisible at night),
which has a peculiar habit of dragging its
moorings. The authorities state that it
would cost too much to blow up Smith, hut
it really costs too much to let Smith
remain. It is a conical rock, and the cost
of removal would be a mere fraction of the
damage it has caused, or is likely to cause,
Perhaps Bananaland is waiting for a decent-
sized accident before it makes up its mind
to remove the obstruction.
“Atlas”: Thus an indignant Northerner
in the local sheet:—
NOTICE. —I hereby contradict that Mrs. Tanzky’s
Private Boarding House is Closed. It is still Open
for Respectable Boarders; but not for drunkards and
rowdies; they need not apply. If anyone gets drunk
in our house they will be turned out bag and bag-
gage. Mrs. Tanzky is still managing the place as
usual,--and I shall provide the baton to keep down
any disturbance, in order to provide peace and com-
fort for respectable men. I am head manager and
boss of the house. —F. TANZKY.
A Respectable Girl Wanted; good Wages.
“Bulwa”: The St. Paul disaster on
Smith’s Rock, off Cape Moreton (Q.), lets
loose another argument for Federal control
of coastal lighting and beaconing of dangers.
There apparently had been a buoy, but it
had broken away. Even if it hadn’t, an
unlit buoy is of rather less use than a hatful
of Spurgeon’s sermons as a danger signal in
the dead waste, middle or stomach of a dark,
thick night. Eighteen more ghosts are there-
by added to the drowned folk who
should haunt the bed-curtains of Joseph
Cook and his merry men until something
definite is done. Unluckily, ghosts have no
votes (except those political ghosts which
are troubling the Electoral Commission), and
their earthly friends are usually outside the
Federal area. This same rock was respon-
sible for the Waipara smash a few years
ago. It is right in the fairway, and if
Brisbane’s aspirations to become a real port
are ever to materialise, Smith’s Rock will
have to be plainly labelled. The concern is
outside pilotage limits, and mere bearings in
Sailing Directories are useless, particularly
to foreign skippers. The recent grounding
of the Matunga at Woodlark Island afforded
another illustration of the hilarious un-
concern with which the lives of seafarers are
apparently regarded under present condi-
tions. After the vessel had been hard and
fast for a few days, a Government steamer
appeared and proceeded solemnly to put up
a beacon on the reef alongside the stranded
craft. The passengers naturally accepted it
as a, good omen in favor of eventual refloat-
ing. Several 15-foot sharks watched pro-
ceedings on behalf of Davy Jones, but be-
yond narrowly missing a reckless bather
they had no luck. Some day, when the
beacon has been blown down, or washed
away, or stolen for boiling trepang, some
vessel may tear its sides out on the tail of
the reef, and the marine lawyers will collect
the bill.
The Three Witnesses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The body of a man partly eaten by dogs was found
in the bush. News was brought to the police by
William Ah Chew, a Chinese boundary rider, em-
ployed by a Hindu. —Press item.
It lay, what once was Gilbert Gray,
Dead in the dry Paroo;
And none could carry the corpse away
(Well as the dingoes knew).
For Bill Ah Chew —
Who serves Ram Dass
Up at the place at Fiddler’s Pass,
He told the tale
At Samsonvale,
How dingoes three,
With wolfish glee.
Had seen to the body of Gilbert G.
No doubt some reckon on Gilbert Gray
Coming again to see
The folk who watched his earliest play
Under the homestead free, —
But Bill Ah Chew
Who serves Ram Dass
Up at the place at Fiddler’s Pass,
Avows he saw
The bloody jaw
That saved (says he)
The burial fee
Above the body of Gilbert G.
The troopers crossed' the country side;
Out on the dry Paroo,
But little or nothing at all they spied
(Yet —there were three that knew).
For Bill Ah Chew
Who serves Ram Dass
Up at the place at Fiddler’s Pass,
He saw them slink
Along the brink
Beside the tree
That shaded free
The whitening ruins of Gilbert G.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 4. 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
His Ex. has commenced the week with
duties after his own heart! The little Kan-
garoo Pointers (this is not a new breed of
dog, but the kiddies) had, for the first time
in their lives, a visit from vice-royalty, on
Tuesday. He and Lady Mac and the useful
Foxton attended to give away swimming
prizes to the girls. They (the girls) were
decked out in white frocks, and all the heads,
were elaborated with scarlet ribbons. The-
Gov. gave the children lots of more or less
useful information, among which was the-
allegation that after indulging in a sport like-
tennis or cricket it whs necessary to have-
a bath,' whereas after swimming it was not
an essential. And nobody even smiled!
On Thursday afternoon Lady Macgregor-
shed the light of her presence upon the-
Y.W.C.A., and had tea in the new rooms..
There was much goody-goody talk, and lasli-
in’s of tea, but I didn’t see any Christian)
young women. They were just Christian.
There was a tremendous flutter in the-
Methodist dove-cot on Tuesday. Early im
the morning (10 o’clock to be exact) the-
third fair daughter of the Rev. (and Mrs.)i
G. E. Rowe was married in papa’s church-,
to another reverend person—Brumwell by
name. (A better name for a parson would!
be Tlirumwell, especially if it were en-
graved on the collection plate.) There was;
a reception afterwards at Esphenliagen’s. the-
guests being limited to official and clerical!
friends. No fewer than four Wesleyan min-
isters assisted at. the hitching. The moon is;
shining at the Blue Mountains.
On the same day, but late in the evening,,
there was another wedding in the same-
church, when Mr. Roy Matthews declaredl
to Dr. Youngman that he was quite willing:
to have Miss Yera Voller for keeps, and In-
feed and clothe her to the bitter end. This;
was a “pink” wedding. Pink ninon roses;
were dotted about the dainty, bridal gown,,
and the bridesmaids blushed in pink satin-..
Pink flowers decked the church and pink
food and decorations adorned the supper-
tables.
Miss Marion Love’s wedding has had to
be postponed because the cruel floods pre-
vented the bridegroom-to-be from securing
the timber to build his house. . The home
won’t be ready until June. Sister Hilda,
a cherubic-looking girlie, is also to be
carried from the parental roof by Mr. Ewan
Spence, who earns' his salt somewhere out
Goondiwindi way. Dr. and Mrs. Love have
only these two girls, so the roof tree is over-
come with joyous remorse and congratulatory
sympathy.
Mr. and Mrs. 11. C. Mustard are going
off by the Mataram to their home
in the Federated Malay States. On
Wednesday they called about 30 of their
choicest pals together at Eschenhagen’s and
gave them a swagger tea and fixings. Mrs.
Mustard, as Ivo Brenan, was one of our
most attractive girls, and she will be
missed.
Never has Snowy Baker’s Stadium held
a much bigger crowd than that of Monday
night last, when the General Hospital and'
the “Mater” had a benefit there. The
Governor and staff were present, but the-
recognition they received was nothing to.,
what came Jerry Jerome’s way when lie-
rolled out to box a party. Seconds
to Jerry was a pretty girl, in as
very skimpy blue frock and not mach-i
voice, who warbled sentimental songs..
The audience encored until it was hoarse..
It was a mixed or addled show, but there-
was money in it, and where the money is-
tliere shall the criticism be one-eyed, or. event
blind —provided the said show is in the inter-
ests of charity.
The weather cleared up on Monday, and!
the skaters got busy at last. There was;
quite a jolly crowd at the rink, and sur-
prisingly few tumbles. The truth leaked!
out that recently our society beauties have-
been spending a lot of time at Sandgate,-.
where the Town Hall (for they have at
swagger Town Hall there) boasts of a good l
floor, and have put in some fine work
rehearsing.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Norbell” : The bitter cry of protest from
a tired but goaded person in a Queensland
paper:—
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
For the information of the Person or Persons
running about Yangan and Swanfels this last three
years having so great an amount to say about under-
signed, in connection with the people supposed to
be residing at Glenmore, Swanfels: It may be in-
teresting for them to know that I do not happen
to be acquainted with anybody at the place referred
to. Perhaps the above will be sufficient for the
person or persons in question, and could they manage
to shut up.
P. REMO.
Yangan, 17th March, 1914.


The Household
Nestles
*#f!S33sssi
e»
/
;-v
2.
r
1 I
WM %
• ••■=?:• ■:4^ ; •mZJPS'.'d&i
111
<7-/
&
Sfc
*S<
OT*
r-V,
X.
2*
>-
--;
xa
#S
r^pEST‘BRAWe..r|
—zSS? •*. ■*.' V**' *• V*• ’ *• £
•.' r *•* .s ••, ✓
/J
«s5 r ~
ik
r U ,s
5
,c£X3 ulr ‘.v M\ vng« 5 <V
f e« f */ M\ . —•—»
r»
\S.
/i V*
. /■ .a *4’.
<Wl> /»>k O *^ ,r *
■/'/J O
dL.
<«Q
1W ns
• A %
PSr ;
UM
mm<m//z/s °b')
t»
of
U £'-a. T'^v.jt/'
ss
*
Wonder Worker
WINFRED' cigarettes
w
nr
F 3
R
D
c
1
G
A
\
v\
91
A.
&
til*.
, . . \
Iviu'- • ' 'i :■■;>■.
mm
%
awm i
THE MATCH OF THE SEASON
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
IN
I
A
io
FOR
6 D
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., London E no
20
FOR
II-


YOUR
HEALTH
is far too valuable for exper-
iment with unknown reme-
dies, when natural strength
and vigour can be renewed
by taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. More than a medicine,
more than a food, this pure
strength-maker enriches the
TRADE MARK.
blood, creates
healthy tissue,
and distributes
energy and vig-
our through-
out the body.
Weakly babes,
growing chil-
dren, anaemic
mothers and all
exhausted by
illness and dis-
ease gain new
strength, renewed vitality and
good health by taking genuine
Emulsion
as... recommended by doctors
in every part of the civi-
lized world.
LACTOBACILLINE
TABLETS.
Prepared under the authority and scientific control of
PROFESSOR METOHNIKOFF.
Lactobacilline combats and arrests the development
of pathogenic and putrefactive germs in the intestinal
canal. By this action Lactobacilline not alone exerts
a powerful influence in the restoration to and main-
tenance of perfect general health, but is specially indi-
cated in AFFECTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE TRACT.
Gastro-enteritis, muco-membranous entero-cplitis, con-
stipation, intestinal tuberculosis, typhoid fever, influ-
enza, appendicitis and intestinal catarrh. IN CASES OF
AUTOINTOXICATIONS —cirrhosis of the liver, chronic
nephritis, arterio-sclerosis, chlorosis, anaemia, dyspepsia,
etc., IN ALL CASES DUE TO ABNORMAL INTES-
TINAL FERMENTATION: IN ALL CASES DEPEN-
DENT ON DISTURBANCES OF SECRETION of bile
and pancreatic juice (gallstone, pancreatic diabetes.)
In diabetes, Lactobacilline, by virtue of the fermen-
tation which it sets up in the alimentary sugars, di-
minishes the Glycosuria. The tablets are put up in
glass cylinders, and are packed in boxes each con-
taining eight cylinders. Price 5/6 per box. Each
cylinder and box bears the words “Le Ferment Seul
Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,” without which
none are genuine. Lactobacilline can be ordered
through any chemist. Full particulars can be obtained
from the Societe le Ferment, Australasia Chambers,
406-414 Queen Street, Brisbane, or branches: Vic-
kery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw's
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smeeton’s Build-
•ings, Queen Street, Auckland.
PARFUM
JUNE ROSES” &
LO
%
MO
On
, The real fragrance . _
_ of English roses, is for the
time, distilled into this potent Essence,,
which is unapproached for truth and
beauty of odour.
Besides the perfume, a complete range ot
Exquis.te Toilet Pro-
ducts is issued by I
Morny, all fragrant!
with this perfect scent ]
“June Roses” Perfume, 7/-,
10/6, 18/6; Complexion Pow-
der (5 tints), 7/6; Bath Salts,
4/-, 10/6; Bath Dusting
Powder, 7/6; Sachets for Cor-
sage, 1/-
' S\ NEW & TRUE FLOWER ODOUR i
THE MORNY FINE BATH AND PERFUME
PRODUCTS are retailed in Sydney by:—
WASHINGTON H. SOUL, 160 Pitt Street.
PATTINSON" & CO., 427 George Street.
FARMER & CO., 221-9 Pitt Street.
CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE STORES OF
NEW-SOUTH WALES LTD., 152-4 Pitt St.
H. A- ROSE"& CO., Chemists, 149 King Street.
Wholesale Agents only: DRUGGISTS LTD.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE Australian Magazine—T*H E tONii
HAND. The National Monthly. Price, 6d
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. WAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCermick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
fowhtpen
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only) :
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
gdf
A
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
*
f
M
(
II
W 3
OtiUi
AUSTRALIANS
IN LONDON
will be glad to know of i!.c numerous
amenities and pleasant cf hotel
life presented by the Hotel Russell.
The visitor feels more like coming
into the atmosphere of English home-
life at its best than entering an hotel.
g There is that domesticity of service
and general environment that make for supreme comfort and homeli-
ness. The cooking is faultless ; the style and scheme of furnishing
luxurious but restrained ; the tariff modest.
At the centre of London’s throbbing life,
it is yet peaceful and quiet, overlooking the
park-like Russell Square. A penny ’bus fare
from almost any spot of interest in London.
'oieiixussei
London
Hunyadi lanos
For an adjustment of the system, to dispel Kidney Trouble, medical men
from time immemorial have advocated the use of watery purging. One of
the best of all such agents is Hunyadi Janos Natural Aperient Water.
It ensures a prompt, copious, painless and easy evacuation of the intestines.
Hunyadi Janos neither depresses the patient nor sets up a state of after-
constipation, two points of the utmost importance in dealing with patients
suffering from kidney complaints, which sooner or later give rise to much
emaciation, anaemia, and general debility of body and mind.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
only Perfedl Cleanser
for Artificial Teeth
DENSO
There’s nothing like it —people every-
where are praising DENSO.
DENSO quickly renders the plate sweet,
clean, healthful; brightens the teeth, pre-
serves the gold, and is a perfect boon
to heavy smokers. Plates also fit better,
more comfortably after using DENSO.
If in doubt send Id. for postage on FREE
Sample. [1
Commonwealth. J. M. WILKES 8 CO.
1/6,2/6 Box.
BIINYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
- You .must clear youi land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big tree?,
huge boulders, ugly- stumps all give way* to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write:
John Cooper 8 Sons,
2*7-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
So notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
H. W. Kay: The editor of The. Bulletin
solemnly attests that he was never cured of rheuma-
tism by a person named Malcolm, nor by any other
person. Nor was any member of his family ever
cured of rheumatism, nor any of his friends or ac-
quaintances (except, perhaps, the late Louis Beck,
who tried the dead whale cure). He knows
of no colleague, either in the literary, artistic,
commercial or mechanical section of the
paper, who has been cured of rheumatism,
and he can’t recall a contributor (verse, prose
or art) who has met with the alleged bene-
fit. If anybody says he cured the editor of
rheumatism that boaster is hereby disqualified.
. ...T.T. (on board s.s. Orama). Oh, interesting
and hostile English friend, also infuriated British
supporter and embittered brother from Poplar or
Peckham Rye! Salaam! Did it ever strike you
that you come from a convict country, most ex-
cited Shored itcher or affable Liverpudlian?
The last year for which figures were avail-
able there were about 14,000 people con-
victed of serious crime in the British Isles. X lings
are improving of course; they used to be so bail
that there are very few Englishmen who
hanged or flogged progenitors, male or female, i
the family records. Please inspect the back oi
the ghost'of your very-very-exceedingly-great grand-
mother of the Tudor days, and see what it looks like.
. ...Terowie (S.A.) : In one breath or gasp
you sav (that “the followers of racing in N.S.W.
belong to the soft-headed variety, and LJf
Adelaide and the Port there are a number of book-
makers, probably a dozen or more who will ay
the starting-price odds away from the comse. lhe
balance in the matter of soft-headedness would
seem to be with S.A. if your „ T ®*f te^
are correct. F’rinstance, you say: Two horses
went out in the same interest recently at Morphett-
ville, one showing £l4 odd dividend on the lote
and the other less than £3. The former won. His
party openly put money in the machine on the losei
in order to deceive the public and affect the lote
price.” What sort of an ass is the S.A. bookmaker
who habitually lays starting-price odds, away from
the course, with this sort of villainy m frequent
operation on the course?... .Borlay (and a heap ot
others): Your contributions consist merely oi news-
items hewn from English and Yankee journals and
passed on to us in a paraphrased form. And they
aren’t even well paraphrased. Try and weigh m
with a fragment of original comment, or the taint
shadow of a novel idea. You have no conception
of the way such rarities cheer the lot of the
harassed sub-editor. .. .H.W.8.: The yarn about the
weeping kid with the absurd and unusual- headgear,
and the agitated mother who was taking him to the
hospital to have it broken off him, is at least eight
years old. For that matter, it may be 80—but the
writer is prepared to take his affidavit to eight....
Lagani Namo: Don’t remember it; but, in any case,
cannot undertake to return pars even when postage
is inclosed George P.: Your small job list to
hand (1) Have read the pars, and they are no
use to anybody; (2) don’t know anyone “who wants
a person to look after them on a trip to America ,
(3) yes, know half a dozen good photographic out-
fits, but can’t spare a day this week to kindly let
you have particulars (this is our somewhat busy
season) ; (4) sorry to hear you have been ill, but
you seem about as stroHg as we’ve met lately...*
A.A.11.: You tell the story of the bush bathroom
well, Amelia, but not quite so well as the original
writer. She wasn’t so blushfully embarrassed as
you; but, then, The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant
avers that human nature has changed even in his
time Gippsland: Will make inquiries Chelsea
(Q.) : Evidently the manuscript appealed to the sub-
editor who read it, but it was rejected by the office
High Court. Or the High Court might have made
the corrections and then reversed its own decision on
appeal. If it went back to you, it would hardly be
worth while submitting it again. Send it else-
where, and try again with a fresh eontributien.
R.M.V. (W.A.) : Drought too long Bert R.:
Rejected manuscripts which are escorted by stamps
just go home without comment here —unless the
writer specifically asks for an opinion or curse. This
last item has only a semblance of life. .. .W.C.P.:
Humorous verse not sufficiently humorous. . . .Oglam-
ite: All too scrappy. .. .G.D.8.: An old idea loaded
with large words. .. .Pa P.: Too small. Won’t
carry. .. .John R.: Glad to hear the poetry market is
cheerful and that soap sonnets are up to 30s. Ask
your bootmaker about that advt.. . .Pauper: Two
lines: —
From off the platform’s edge he spoke
With eloquenoe untold.
You are judged E: “Music” is a series of discords
on greasy paper. .. .Ruby P. ; Try it elsewhere. It’s
not a bad thing, but we don’t use that brand of
story Clement V-R.: Can’t drink with y0u....
Hibiscus (Tahiti): Sorry, no u5e....G.G.: Well, you
don’t grip your subject—you just fall round it and
roll on it in an untidy fashion.... Douglas M.: Out
of our line.... Residue : Unsuitable... .Robert R.
(M.L.) : Not up Serpens: Original gems from
your story. “The residents were utterly at a loss,”
“A veritable monster.” Can’t discover “a quiet
but pretty wedding.” Hew did you miss it?....
T.B. (Q.) : A sort of elephants’ frolic. .. .Johnno II.:
Better give it up n0w....N.D. (Q.) : Neither.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.F.: Are vou dead sure that’s a joke? If it is,
the black and white plan doesn’t throw any light
on it... . Phil M.: There’s no escaping those two
figures, and they should both be unde-ground. The
snip-snap joke isn’t humorous. Prime Minister Cook
would describe it in a statesmanlike way as “tripe.”
. ...C.R.C.: Disgusting jest-—horrible drawing....
E.Y.M.: The feeble jest and the riot of scratches
have gone tombwards.... J. 8.8.: Topic is dying
rapidly, and your drawing is stiff and speechless....
Vera C.: Why does O’Malley wear a sword in his
bosom ? And why has he got two trainbearer devils
holding up the end of his robe?... .R.N.M.: You
have a good idea of drawing, but the sketches for-
warded are of no value. .. .Norman B.: The jest is
an old one, and the drawing doesn’t strike us as
original... .J.I.H. (Q.) Faint, distorted pencil
sketches about 4in. long by 2in. wide are not what we
are looking for. . . .H.C.: A poor jape and an indigent
drawing... .F.N.H.: An old Bulletin gag very
badly hashed. Select a suitably arid spot and go
there and perish miserably... .C.E. (V.): You are
heroically slapdash, but the result isn’t art. For one
thing, the fat man with the lattice-work stomach
seems to have his eye in a sort of birdcage. Then
his stomach and one leg seem to be made in one
piece. There are other defects, but we haven’t space
to mention them.
“Schmidt” : The Hibernian appears to be
passing in the capacity of policeman—any-
how so far as Bananaland is concerned.
Here are a few names of Q. John Hops,
picked more or less at random
Finkernagel, Schwartz, Schultz, Yesberg, Ffrench,
Chiconi, Angelo, McTaggart, McDougal, Fraser.
A Brisbane pal of mine was arrested in
broken German, fractured Yidish, and some
distortion or other of a Dago tongue to him
unknown, in the course of three successive
drunks last year.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
(or country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It lias a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
jong flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years cf wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. I*. Talty, 3SS Sus-iac Street, Sydney.
/ CT')&
te p..'
<
THE WONDERFUL
STRUCTATOR
The most remarkable and original engineering
and construction outfit. Hundreds of designs
and models possible. No nuts or screws used in
any of the combinations. Nothing more fascinat-
ing or instructive for bright boys, a pastime
that may develop the beginnings of a construc-
tion engineer.
Outfits from 10/6 to 12 guineas.
Accessory outfits of the Structator can always be
had.
To be had of all the leading stores, opticians
and toy-dealers throughout Australasia. If your
own dealer has not the Structator, write us and
vve will see that you are supplied.
STEPHEN PING, 127 York Street, Sydney.
Trade
Mark
M
WHAT IS
J
p
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has ttyis remedy become iu
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & 11-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
A MONTHLY GUIDE for everything Aus-
tralian. That’s Thk Lone Hand. “A
marvellous sixpenn’orth!”
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
fa
/
€
B
M.
I
THE
WORLD own.
IF it were not for light, downy
beards many a razor would have
no market.
The tough beard or the tender skin
is the real shaving test —and the
Gillette is the one razor that meets that test
every day with millions of satisfied users.
Three minutes is all the time you need for a velvet smooth
Gillette shave. No strops to fuss with —no waste of time—no
bother. No pulling or scraping or sore, touchy face.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. ' Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA s
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
gdf
gdf
THE BOY AVIATOR^
Splendid Books of Adventure, in Air
Ships, Motor Cars, Motor Boats, with
Wireless Telegraph, &c., by Captain
Wilbur Lawton. Good, wholesome, profit-
able reading. The wonders of modern
science woven into thrilling stories.
Intensely interesting to wide-awake boys.
Handsomely bound in decorated cloth,
300 pages, well printed, finely illustrated.
. Price 2/9, we pay postage anywhere
The Union Co«« 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
gfd
t h* Wonderful Vista Chromoscope
9/6
Beautiful Colored Views Photographed from
Nature, life-like in form and color. Better
nthan any you have ever seeu before. Just
like viewing the actual scene, light and
shade, perspective, solidity, animation and, above
all, coloring' A triumph of skill aud ingenuity.
The complete Vista Chrontoscope, with 12 beautiful
double pictures, 9/6. we pay carriage; additional views 6/6 per
[dozen. You should order at once, this advertisement may not
appear again. Tho Ultioßl Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
TO-DAY
if your baby is not thriving use the
‘Allenburys’ Foods. They develop
firm flesh and bone and promote robust health and vigour.
No digestive disturbance need be feared from the use of
these pure milk and malted foods.
MILK FOOD NO. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD NO. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
‘Sllenburgs Foods
CUP" Pamphlet on
Infant Feeding and
Management Free.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., Jsondon, Sng.,
and MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
£1000:;£I000
Work of Art. Work of Art.
First Great Prize, Value £5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and
£lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON,
or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
58th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—
58th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers will
be posted to any person on sending an ad-
dressed envelope to the representative, with
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
2nd May, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders-lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach Melbourne
before the date of drawing, 19th May, 1911/.
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
MODEL'!.'
e o
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free..
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and' Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W. Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 27th March, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for a Coal Hulk.
r |LENDERS will be received until twelve
I noon on Monday, 27th April, 1914, for
the supply of a Hulk (or a vessel, steam or
sailing, which could easily be converted into
a Hulk) with a coal capacity of not less
than 2000 tons.
Tender forms, &c., can be obtained on
application to the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, or at the
Naval Staff Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs
Bay (S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Coal Hulk” on top left-hand corner of
envelope, and addressed (if by post pre-
paid) to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; or to the Director
of Navy Contracts, care Naval Staff Office,
Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay (S.A.), Fre-
mantle or Hobart, as the case may be.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
All tenders must be on the specified form,
which can be obtained as above.
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
Amusements.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATKE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH l>. McINTOSH.
THE ELLIOTT SAVONA S, Musical Act.
W. C. FIELDS, The Silent Humorist.
SAM STERN, “An Entertainer.” That’s all.
THE FIVE MERRY YOUNGSTERS.
VALECITA’S LEOPARDS. THE CREOS.
ROSA ROMA. MARSHAL CROSBY
VIVANTE & VIVANTI.
PLAYLET, “THE SACRIFICE.”
And a Great Company of Established Favorites.
PRICES, 5/-, 4/-, 31- and 1/-
TIVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
SAM STERN, Character Comedian.
THE TWO BOBS.
TOM DAVIS TRIO, Motoring in Midair.
WATERBURY BROS, and TENNEY,
The Big Three in Vaudeville.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 11,
Reappearance, after long absence, of ADA REEVE.
I’lan nt Allan’s. HWF"PR ICES —45., 3s„ 2s„ Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
Tivoli theatre, Adelaide
THIS WEEK.
ROSA ROMA, “The Gipsy Violinist.” W. TALLEUR
ANDREWS, “The Ma'tin6e Idol.” Miss VIVIEN
TALLEUR and FREDK. READE, AIMEE SMITH.
FIVE PETLEYS, HUXIIAM COMEDY CO., VAL
VOUSDEN, THE ROYAL QUARTETTE, (a Breezy
Musical and Dancing Act), JACK SHIELDS (Eng-
lish Vocal Comedian and Inimitable Imitator).
Miss JOSEPHINE DAVIS, “The Dainty American.”
Tivoli theatre, perth.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Constant Changes of
WORLD’S STAR ARTISTS,
Supplemented by an Exclusive Film Service.
BOX PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 3/-, 21- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
ER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
presenting their STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME
EXTRAVAGANA, which this year is based upon the
attractive story of
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Written by Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
The great white city
RUSHCUTTER’S BAY, SYDNEY.
Australia’s Premier Pleasure Resort.
A Fairyland of Palaces of Pleasure.
Made for Merriment. Fashioned for Fun.
The Mecca of the Merrymaker.
FREE ATTRACTIONS.
The Thrilling Trapeze Act of
THE AERIAL BENOS.
TANGO. TANGO.
OPEN-AIR THEATRE.
PROMENADE CONCERTS.
MILITARY BAND.
NIGHTLY, FROM 6.45 to 11. SATS., 2 to 11 p.m.
INCLUSIVE ADMISSION, SIXPENCE.
Carnival Night, Wed., April 8. Admission, 6d.
General Manager: T. H. ESLICK, C.E.
DELI I l I TIIE A T R~e! SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
SATURDAY, APRIL 11.
GRAND EASTER PRODUCTION.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S AMERICAN MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
THE TENDERFOOT.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/- and 1/-
PA I. AC E TIIIiAT It E. SVIIN EY.
Direction ALLEN DOONE.
Return of the Popular Irish Actor,
ALLEN DOONE,
In the Patriotic Irish Drama,
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN.
Bov Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FUtLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
New Feature-Act Programme.
SPECIALLY IMPORTED AMERICAN ARTISTS.
FREDERICK C. HAGAN & CO.
CARL BENTZEN & PHYLLIS LAWTON.
THE JAKELOW TRIO. IL TROVATORE TRIO.
GORDON & DAY.
PRICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
The little theatre, Sydney.
Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
EASTER MONDAY, at the MATINEE,
HUGH BUCKLER and VIOLET PAGET
Will present Sir Arthur W. Pinero’s Society Comedy,
THE GAY LORD QUEX.
Plan at Paling's. Day Sale White Rose.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baruington Miller, General Manager.
AND OEYIIPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE CROHN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee),
g p K NCI! R’S EYCE U M, SYDN E Y.
THE WORLD'S - BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
The imperial salon de luxe.
Late Foot of William St. Rink.
Direction BENDItODT & IRVING
J. C. Bendrodt, Man. Director.
G. C. IRVING, Gen. Manager.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT.
TUESDAY, APRIL 21.
With a Season of
FASHTONABLE DANCING
In the most exclusive, palatial and luxu-
riously appointed ballroom in Australasia.
CATERING ONLY TO FIRST-CLASS
PATRONAGE,
and offering nothing to offend the most
fastidious.
’Phone: 682 Wm. St.
D W A R I) lIRANSCOMUE’S
SIX COMPANIES OF
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
' OLYMPIA, PERTH.
CORONATION HALL, BONDI JUNCTION.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 11.
First Appearance of the BERT BAILEY Combination
in the American Comedy-Drama,
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Her majesty’s theatre, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd,
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OVER HERE,
Plnn at Allan’s. Prices: 65.. 45.. 2s. and Is.
heat RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Australian Production of the Sensational Drama,
MADAME X.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls. 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Under Vice-Regal Patronage and Presence.
■M ELBOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE
IVI CLUB.
COSTUME BALL.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 6.
Ticket, Ball, 10/6 (with ! Supper).
Balcony Ticket (reserved), 10/6 (with Supper).
South Gallery, 5/- (reserved).
All information at Committee Room, Town Hall,
dai ly. 3—5. E. NAPOLEON BOFFARD. Org. Sec.
J . & N. TAIT announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
II AERY LADDER.
Melbourne, Princess’s Theatre, commencing APRIL 11.
Adelaide, commencing MAY 0.
Sydney, commencing MAY 30.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JULY 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
For particulars write to J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne,
Sole Directors of Harry Lauder’s Tour.
OLYMPIA, OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLipAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
Amusements.
UfEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICT [JEES THE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
BIKCH & CARROLL,
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hf.ad o'efice: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
NEXT-OF-KIN WANTED.
In the Estate of John Brown Williams,
deceased.
A SUM of money is held for Mrs.
FRANCES SILVERLOCK, a
daughter of the above deceased, last heard
of in New South Wales.
Anyone knowing of her whereabouts is
requested to kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington,
New Zealand.
HE PUBLIC TRUSTEE for the
Northern Territory, Darwin, desires
information in regard to the relatives of the
late GARRETT EDMUND BARRY, who
died at Coomarie Springs, near Tanami, in
June, 1910.
Wanted.
Newspaper Manager
Wanted.
A PPLICATIONS are invited for the
r\. position of BUSINESS MANAGER
of the new morning daily newspaper to be
published in Sydney by Labor Papers
Limited in November, 1914. Experience of
morning newspapers desirable. State salary
required and when available (June Ist pre-
ferred ). .
Applications close on April 21, and con-
fidentially treated.
O. E. FOSTER,
129 Bathurst Street,
. . . Sydney, N.S.W.
For Sale.
TO SAWMILLERS, INVESTORS 8 Others
FOR Sale, in an important town on the Dubbo-
Coonamble Railway Line, two (2) acres land
(Torrens’ title), on which are erected Dwelling, Mill
Shed, Engine and Boiler Houses, Timber Racks,
etc., and a complete and up-to-date Sawmill Plant
in thorough working order. For price and further
particulars apply to;,.
GOLDSBROUGII, MORT & Co., Limited,
Circular Quay, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
gfd
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
Freedom, Ease 8 Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
\\\
WWW
U\l
h
Hi
a
:!:
Legal Notices.
] N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
NORTHERN DISTRICT.
No. 742.
IN DIVORCE.
GEORGE THE FIFTH, by the grace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
King, Defender of the Faith.
TO DANIEL DWYER, formerly of Waihi, but now of
parts unknown.
Whereas MELVENA DWYER, of Waihi, in the
Provincial District of Auckland, Dressmaker, claim-
ing to have been married to you, the said Daniel
Dwyer, on the 27th day of March, 1898, at Booberoi
Station, Euabolong, in New South Wales, has filed
her petition against you, praying for a decree that
her said marriage with you may be dissolved, wherein
she alleges that, on or about the 12th day of April,
1906, you wilfully deserted her without just cause
and for five years and upwards, namely, from that
date down to the present time, have continued to
desert her and also that during four years and
upwards prior to such desertion, namely, since 1898
down to the year of such desertion, you were an
habitual drunkard and were during such period
habitually guilty of cruelty towards her, by using-
abusive, offensive and threatening language to her and
beating and assaulting her, and whereas by order
of this Honorable Court, on the 20th day of March,
1914, it was ordered that this abstract should be
advertised once in the Poverty Bay Herald, the
Gisborne Times, the Sydney Morning Herald and
the Sydney Bulletin respectively, and that the said
suit should be tried at the first sittings of the Court
at Auckland, after twenty-eight days after the last
appearance of the advertisement.
NOW TAKE NOTICE that unless within 28
days after the last publication hereof, you do file
in this Honorable Court at Auckland an answer to
the said petition, the said Court will at the first
Court sittings held at the City of Auckland aforesaid,
after the expiration of the 3aid twenty-eight days
proceed to hear the said charge proved and to pro-
nounce sentence thereon, your absence notwithstand-
ing. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that, before
filing the said answer, you must enter an appear-
ance in person or by your Solicitor at the Registry
of the said Court at the City of Auckland afore-
said, and that if you do not enter such an appear-
ance you will not be allowed to address the Court
either in person or by Counsel at any' stage of the
proceedings.
Sealed at Auckland this 23rd day of March, 1914.
(Seal of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand.)
R. G. THOMAS,
Registrar.
This abstract was extracted by W. M. Jackson,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for ser-
vice is at the office of Messieurs Bamford and Brown,
Bank of New Zealand Buildings, Queen Street, in
the City of Auckland aforesaid. A copy of the
said Petition may be inspected at the Supreme Court
Offices at Auckland, or at the office of Messieurs
Bamford and Brown, abovenamed. Any friends of
the above Respondent are requested to forward this
newspaper on to him.
RE HERBERT JOHN DAVEY BUT-
TON CHRISTIAN, deceased, gener-
ally known as Bertie Christian, formerly of
Retreat Station, Queensland, and also of
Rockhampton, and lately of Waverley, near
Sydney.
Information is required by the under-
signed as to whether the above made any
Will, and as to its custody or whereabouts.
PARISH & STEPHEN, Solicitors,
Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
I I I
For Electric
Launches and Vehicles
Owners of Electric Pleasure
Launches, Cars or Electric Trucks
are invited to write us for the
fullest information concerning the
Edison Storage Battery.
These Batteries are the most
economical yet offered, and have
been proved by severe service tests
in every class of work they are
likely to be used for.
Write to-day.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
Dept. B, 364-372 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
I I i~“
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, lor testing every liquid.
gdf
Do you use Glass Instalments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy. ,
If you wish special Instruments maae
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design. . _ . ...
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q LAND.


TOR ECZEMAS
AND RASHES
n
Use
'fhe itchingj burning, suffering and
loss of sleep caused by eczemas,
bashes and irritations of the skin
and scalp are at once relieved and
jpermaiieftt skin health restored in
inost Cases by warn! baths with
Cuticura Soap followed by gentle
applications of Cuticura Ointment.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
ihe world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address it. Towns <fc Co..
Sydney, N. S. W.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
the liver is right the whole system id
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will gently awaken your
dluggish, clogged-up liver
dnd cure constipation,
dtomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
&iclc head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
Vegetable.
You need them.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Carters
WITTLE
I IVEI
IVER
PILLS
h
=or
V !
5^
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (CJ.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S ,u. s .a.,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
gf
For First-Class
Results use
Best
a*~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
1914.
“Mushet” & “Double Mushet”
HIGH SPEED STEELS
And
“MUSHET”
HIGH SPEED
Twist DRILLS
MAKERS
SAMUEL OSBORN & Co.
Limited,
CLYDE STEEL WORKS,
SHEFFIELD.
(Samuel Osborn & Co. Ltd. have again secuted
the contract iot the supvdy of High Speed Steels to
the British Admiralty.)
SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
535 Kent St., Sydney* arid 486 Collins St., Melbourne*
Telephone NOS., 1356 and 2663.
Steel Bepartiheiib—iei. City 2iB.
dgf
gdf
I
v;
Texemd
■braces
For Men who know
Quality , Comfortt Style
At first class shopS t
THE
k
S I
•SSi
-
. ■*
Of*a J=-mS
<=s
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1888.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £465,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: JOHN GBICE, Esq., EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE. SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 PITT STREET.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
gfd
THE BEST
ASMOKE
' is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original anti Only Genuinm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
80LB BY ALL
CHEMISTS,
BriOM in
Englnml—
lUhltrtdtf*
1/I*, 2/8 & 4/e. Had* in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
BOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
fits cough of BROHCHITIS and
CONSUMPTIOM.
Aota like a .charm In
OIARRHfEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The Inky Way.
“ii.E.”: It is fcuribus how the belief ifi the
fitfeBtifte of Loiidoii TImes Still Survives in but-hf-the-
Way corners df the globe, such as the directorate of
Sydiifej'’ Telegraph. Tub Times has beeii Steadily
losing its importance ever since the arrival of Lion-
d'oh Daily Mail arid the Comilig of the cataract of
the halfpenny press. It \fras fence the national news-
phlper: now it is one of the Loiidon newspapers. It
was forced to reduce its. priefe quite recently freim
threepence to twopence; and iiovV it is indistinguish-
able froih tile Other penny papers by reason df its
issue at thfe sattie figure. Once it appealed tb the
English public-—subh public as there was, for thfe
great mass of the nation did not read newspapers,
and in the lnaih could not read at all. Ndw it
appeals to the descendants Of that handful of bygdhe
supporters; but the mass has learned tb read and
has wandered after strange yellow gods. If three
people in 1 bo can redd and ydu reach two Of them
you drfe it. If 90 peopie out df 100 cafi tedd and
you rfeach two of them you drfe SluSh. The Pew
public waPts hews. It Seeks thfe hot, fresh burglary,
find the hfew-laid religion; arid, wheh the Ariarcliist
plows a palace at the clouds it expects tb , find the
first half ( of .the ruin's in its early edition, Awhile tfie
Second half js Still falling. The Times never awoke
to the new shouts and disarrangements., Despite .its
Book Clpb and its , Encyclopaedia and its other dis-
advantages, ,it failed. Its leaders, says, R. A. Scott-
ifames, in ,a recent pool:, “retain theip full weight
only abioad.”.,. ..The real difficulty, Of this great
paper is that it appeals, tb a sectioti which is hot
increasing. Thfe birth-rate among its disciples is
low, add the infant disciple is mostly brought up bn
the bottle.. The Times as it is tb-day is a creature
of habit—rycry good habit, of .coursb —appealing tb a
small, well-defined, but iiiflueritial group of readers,
among whom are the most important writers in alj
the other English papers, and many abroad. Add
it is from the staff of this specialised newspaper
that the directorate of d popular party journal like
thfe Sydney TfiiifiGitAfeH Selects its new editor. All
that Braham knows of European politics will be of
little value, to a continent that is chiefly and vitally
interested in Pacific pblitics; find his acquaintance
with Constantinople will hardly be of use when he
finds that all the Telegraph readers require in the
editorial way is the assertion for six days in the
week that Charles Gregory Wade is the ideal leader
of the N.S.W. Liberal party, and that there is some
water at Canberra.
Tale of woe from a M.L. paper
“We make an apology to our subscribers on thfe
Masterton-road for the non-delivery of The
last Monday. Pact was we could not get a bby t’b db
the job. However, arrangements have fibw been
made for the prompt delivery of the paper ddwn
the road as far as the cheese factory.”
After that, anybody who lives farther down the
road than the cheese foundry does So at his Own risk.
* * * *
No wonder Maoriland loses so many bf the
journalists it trains. The Times, Dunedin’s big
morning paper, advertises for a general reporter,
offering in return for his work and undivided atten-
tion £4 15s. a week. At the end of nine months,
according to the advt., if the inky bloodhound has
followed the scent of tiew’S with despatch and reli-
ability, “it is possible that a permanency may
result.”
* * * *
“O’Cork”: I chei'ish fond memories of evfery Melb.
pub on “H.O’s.” list (B. 5/3/’14) —and of others.
He includes in his bunch The Duke of Wellington,
corner of Russell and Flinders streets, which has
been Melb. Herald’s pet oasis ever since the evening
paper moved into the old bonded store on the oppo-
site corner. For several years it was run by the late
Fielder Ware, best of good fellows, and genuinely
esteemed by a host of journalists and civil servants,
also country cousins. “Fielder” was shortened to
“Phil” (or “Fill”), and as “Phil’s” the haunt was
always known. Therein foregathered survivors from
the palmy days of the Herald —Jim Middleton, Bob
O’Toole and others, with a few who, though no
longer on the paper, looked in to see old friends.
Two lovable souls passed up when Phil and his good
missus died a few years ago within a brief space of
one another. And Bob and Jim are gone, too. Melb.
pubs unlisted by “H.O.,” but with notable names,
are the Reform, in Little Collins-street (the Herald -
haunt when tfie evening paper hung out a few doors
away), the Royal Oak and the Queen’s Arms. The
Dukes should include the Duke of Rothsay, in Eliza-
beth-street. The Sydney-road runs from the northern
end of Elizabeth-street to the Sarah Sands pub at
the southern end of Brunswick. Flinders-street has
the Sir Charles Hotham at its Spencer-street corner
—a great stand for local and travelling biz. The
White Hart faces Reps, and Senate, at the top of
Bourke-street, and I’ve heard a certain “weary” poli-
tician quoting Robbie Burns in one of its bar parlors
at uncertain hours. A little way down big Bourke
is the Elephant and Castle, run for a time by a
popular and burly character actor of bellowdrama.
When the late Nat Levi, M.L.C., started his Evening
News in a small barn up a lane behind the Herald’s
present office it became necessary for the News staff
to have a pub of its own. Much as it loved Fielder
Ware’s Duke of Wellington, there was the danger
of the fellows on the three-editions-daily journal over-
hearing projected “scoops” talked about among the
staff of the laboriously-produced-one-edition sheet! So
instead of going down the lane and around to
“Phil’s,” the News chaps went up the lane and at
its junction with Little Flinders fastened upon the
Hen and Chickens, a modest and homely hostelry
wherein was never rowdiness nor shadow of larrikin-
ism. In the parlor a tiptop piano was beautifully
played by a genuinely musical daughter of the house,
whose favorite song was “Whisper and I Shall Hear!”
Each News man soon became an adept at whispering,
“These are mine, please, till Friday.” And, according
to promise, the lady “heard.”
* * * *
“Bookware”: We are looking for the Common-
wealth Atlas, a national undertaking long in hand
and much overdue. The atlas will contain 120 quarto
maps. These include 10 maps of geography; 10 of
history, discovery, exploration and politics; 15 of
physiography, geology, contours, etc.; 20 of meteor-
ology, rainfall, temperature, including some town
maps in those regards; 20 economic maps, with
natural products, such as wool, wheat, minerals, tim-
ber, etc.; 20 of regions of special interest to scientist
and tourist; 10 statistical maps. And some others.
The separate sections will be purchasable, and all as
cheap as possible.
* * * *
“Atlas”: The rush to get out the evening paper
is responsible for some queer sub-editing. But a
northern sheet, relating the evidence of one Rudd,
charged with the manslaughter of one Cusack, has
fractured all records. It snapped out: “He just
stepped back and struck deceased once. Cusack
fell, and the remainder of his evidence was corroba-
tive of that of the Crown.”
BEAUTY ON THE BEACH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her ahns wet'e bate; her toes were, tdb,
And is she seaward sped, unhosed,
the lady graciously exposed
A pair of noble knees to vieW.
&ke fle'd into the foam, , barelegged,
d-iid, fleeing, turned to flash a red;
iVarm smile at one who, as she fled,
FbllbWed a-dbwn the beach, and begged.
kis heart ibas in his pleading voice,
And as he struggled in her wake
His ardent manner sure did make
The maiden inwardly rejoice.
And when at last she paused awhile,
And kindly gave him audienfce;
The lad’s delight tVas jbst immense;
kis bbllntenftnbb onfe lai-ge, sweet smile.
He gazed dt her, enwtapt in bliss;
And eageiTy indeed he Spake;
“Tell mb;” he begged, “if I may take
Abut phbtb. fbr me paper, miss?”
VICTORIA.
F. H.


THE CERT D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, nistoi
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt ...
Postage on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W.; 5/2 Inter-State. '
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g a u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Gilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. A. u t o _£j eC to r , 25/- 1 Noll-EjectOr, 22/6
gfd
Postasre—2/6 N.S.W. ;
4/8 Inter-State.
fgd
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest feiemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case-
hardened locks, 24m. barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage— Is. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State. 00/-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARHET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney ; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles.
Ammunition.
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
©
mi
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about 631 b. to 71b., _ _ , _
of 16-gauge 6|lb. to 6£lb. DELIVERED, 70 /g
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at /4/- extra. ®
We are the Sole Agents in N.S. W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
©
9,
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot,32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about b.
OAEEIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for PLAYS.
F
AMOUS
lI-
ARCES
REE-ACTING
Contents—
Area Belle
Betsy Baker
Box and Cox
Ici on Parle Francais
My Turn Next
Rough Diamond
That Rascal Pat
Turn Him Out
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-
(posted 1/1).
Mention Tub Bulletin.
New American Joke
Books illustrated: Hot
Stuff Jokelets, 1/1;
Polite Vaudeville, 1/1;
After - Dinner Stories,
1/1; Hebrew Jokes,
1/1 ; Stage Jokes, 1/1;
Irish Jokes, 1/1 ; Talk-
alogues, 1/1 ; Jokes
Without Whiskers, 1/1;
On a Fast Train, 1/1;
On a Slow Train, 1/1;
With a Bum Show,
1/7; Mustard Plasters,
1/7 ; The 125 Best Card
Tricks, 1/8; Brough’s
Secret of Stage Make-
Up, 1/4; Comic Recita-
tions, 1/1 ; Hypnotism,
Mesmerism and Clair-
voyance, 1/1 ; Amateur
Conjuring Book, 7d.
EASY CONJURING TRICKS.
♦ »
mm.
n
r. j"
:u
Diminishing
Cards.
Ordinary
Playing
Cards, which
are apparent-
ly ‘squeezed’
smaller and
smaller till
they dissolve
altogether.
Complete,
with full in-
struct i on s;
anyone can
work them.
29,
posted 3/-
Other Easy Card Tricks are:—(l) Wizard of the
North, and (2) The Two-from-Five, 6d. each;
posted Btl. Above 3Tricks, post free anywhere, 4/-
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.TKB
Above prices include postage to an3> address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Catalogues
FREE.
201 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. r ,
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
ADTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
Farquhar’s Agricultural Machines
gfd
have been recognised as leaders of
quality for more than fifty years because
they excel in strength and efficiency.
Therefore they are noted all over the
world for their reliability.
We manufacture Steam Engines and
Boilers, Gasoline Engines, Steam and Gasoline
Traction Engines, Threshers, Saw Mills, Horse
Powers, Plows, Harrows, Cultivators, Corn
Shellers, Corn Mills, Grain Drills, Corn
Planters, Cotton Planters, Potato Diggers,
Store Trucks, etc.
gdf
Also, Hydraulic Presses for Cider, Wine, Veneer, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all Modern Languages. Cable Address: “FENANKLE,” New York.
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All' Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s fid posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aus r. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiif. Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Kot Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
H
m
m
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
W" BOOKSELLER to the commonwealth. -a®
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions’
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting etc Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, ’ls 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette Is. Hoyle s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Xiik \Y hitk Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor cures
for 3.11 diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up*
to-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easj-, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations ani portraits, Is: post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SWEstablished 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONKY a smakh idea of my stock can
BE GOT FROM THIS ADYT.
Write for my.....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’S Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of tub
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, -Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


All Ladies Need
Laxo-Tonic
Pills.
Tue more delicate consti-
tution and finer organism
of woman makes it im-
perative that all the func-
tions of her system be
kept as far as possible in
a condition of normal and
healthy action, and any
diversion from the natural
order of things is quickly
followed by unplesant re-
sults. It is safe to say
that with nine women out
of every ten, chronic con-
stipation is the bane of
their existence, and can
frequently be traced as
the direct cause of many
of the more serious com-
plaints peculiar to the
sex. In all such cases
the use of powerful and
irritating drugs is especi-
ally to be avoided, and for
this reason Laxo-Tonic
Pills are a marked im-
provement over the for-
mula usually prescribed,
and are particularly
adapted to the use of
women in general; for
their action while
thorough, is always mild
and gentle. They stir
the liver to healthy action,
clear the blood, and give
tone and life to the entire
system.
Laxo-Tonic Pills can be
taken at all times, and
under all conditions, by
both young and old alike,
without the least risk and
without any danger of
unpleasant after-effects.
Laxo-Tonic Pills assist the
process of Nature, give
relish to the food, and pre-
vent exhaustion, nausea,
sick headaches, and other
ailments to which women
are so accustomed. With
the girl, the young woman,
the mother, the middle-
aged woman, and the
woman of advanced years,
Laxo-Tonic Pills will
prove to be a most reli-
able friend.
ALL WOMEN GAN
BE BEAUTIFUL.
How to Obtain a Clear, Spotless Skin, a
Glow of Health and Bright Sparkling Eyes
Ask a woman what she most desires, and nine
out of ten will answer “Beauty.” Why she
wishes to be beautiful is in part for the sake
of charming others, but primarily for the
satisfaction in herself which she feels would
come with the possession of beauty. All
women can he beautiful if they but give to
their own bodies half the attention they donate
to their clothes. A clean, spotless skin, a
glow of health, clear and sparkling eyes, are
the attributes which will make any woman
beautiful. First, to become healthy, Laxo-
Tonic Pills are the greatest and most import-
ant assistance. By their regular use consti-
pation (that greatest foe of womanly beauty)
is banished. Better even than their cleansing
properties is the great tonic effect which they
exercise upon women whose delicate organs
need strengthening and toning to enable them
to cope with the strain of modern life. Old-
fashioned pills have a depressing and weak-
ening effect on the female organs, causing
troubles which rapidly deplete the strength.
The tonic effect of Laxo-Tonic Pills is to
create and build up, to send the fresh red
blood through the capillary system, renewing
all the waste tissues. Laxo-Tonic Pills first
cleanse the system, and then enrich the blood
and strengthen every organ. Become healthy
and you’ll be happy, being happy you look
beautiful to yourself and to others. Laxo-
Tonic Pills can be taken at all times and
under all conditions by both young and old
alike, without the slighest risk and without
any damage or unpleasant after-effects.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS
JUST WHAT YOU NEED.
Laxo-Tonic Pills assist the processes of
Nature, give relish to the food, removing
exhaustion, sick headache, and many other
ailments.
Anyone who takes Laxo-Tonic Pills the
moment she suspects her liver or bowels will
never have headache
There is no necessity when you take Laxo-
Tonic Pills to follow them up with nasty,
sickening, griping salts or castor oil, as you
should after taking calomel. Laxo-Tonic Pills
do not contain calomel or any other metallic
drugs. They are a purely vegetable com-
pound in a gelatine coating, easy to take, and
never gripe or cause weakness.
Thousands of people take one every night at
bedtime to prevent disorders of the liver,
constipation, bad breath, pimples and head-
ache. Trv them for a week—take one on
retiring nightly.
LAXO-TONIG PILLSi Regular Size, 10|d.; Double Size, 1/6
dfg
Free
Play
ft
%
BR
X
ICES
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
Sold Everywhere
2/ - i
Guaranteed '
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mas t be Stampei
k mm BmcUm*
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitute*.
Sold by aU First-CUM Draper, and Storekeepers
IT AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
HIO
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size- Price, 21s.
The Olympians at Watson’s
Bay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I MET lier simply in the street;
She bowed to me, I raised my hat.
Her eyes were very dark and sweet,
Her shape a thing to wonder at.
And that was why we went away
To spend some time at Watson’s Bay.
The girl and I resolved to seek
A sheltered spot remote and green
Where any blush that dyed her cheek
Could not so readily be seen ;
A rocky wall above us rose,
And small, green creepers hid our toes.
Her waist was fitted to my arm,
Her head upon my shoulder lay.
The high, blue sky had power to charm,
The sea had scarce a word to say.
And neither of us cared a rap
For those green waves that kissed the Gap.
Green kisses are insipid things
When scarlet ones are on the bill,
And poor the song that ocean sings
When loving pulses start to thrill.
The music of this perfect maid
Was of the kind that Sappho played.
For quite a number of nice hours
We sat upon the simple ground,
We did not sigh for wine or flowers,
For both our souls were sweetly bound
By flowery bonds of such delight
As kept Endymion drunk all night.
The evening fell on hill and bay,
A red light burned behind the trees;
A little breeze came up to say
That it was chill upon the seas;
But little did we heed or care.
My heart was warm; so was her hair.
I think we might have stayed all night,
Or all our lives in that dear place;
The dusk brought hints of new delight
When shadows held her perfect face;
But all at once she left her seat
And sprang erect upon her feet,
Her hands were busy with the pins
That kept her heavy hair in coil,
Such hair as night from gladness spins
The ravished hearts of men to spoil—
I thought that on my senses fell
A sound of some far dinner bell.
I said: “Sweet maid, we will away ;
The needs of nature must be met;
Down yonder by the darkening bay
The happy tables all are set,
And ancient poets hold it good
That love should be sustained with food.”
“Not so,” she said, “the night is near,
The darkening waves begin to sob.
If I should linger longer here
Some other girl may steal my job,
And I should have myself to blame
If this sweet summer night went lame.”
She saw that I was puzzled sore
With wonder at her last remark,
The lights .were lit along the shore,
But my intelligence was dark,
So dark that till she should explain
I thought the damsel was insane.
“The darkness has come down too soon,”
u She simply said, with laughter low,
‘ I am the goddess of the moon
And now I’ll really have to go;
Perhaps I should have told you this
Before I let you steal a kiss.”
I laughed a laugh of merry glee.
“Why, then,” I said, “it all comes right.
Aurora brings my morning tea
Before the sun is well alight;
Although I did not mention it
I also sometimes god a bit.
“I have a little berth in town
That keeps me in cigars and wine,
And sometimes for my old renown
I take a trip aloft and shine ;
But I have found it better far
To pay a chap to drive my star.”
The goddess maiden heaved a sigh :
“I wish I could engage a maid
To take my billet in the sky
While we sit spooning in the shade” —
But here the moon-girl’s scarlet lips
Suffered a sudden, hot eclipse.
We wandered to the haunts of men,
I found a useful telephone,
I rang up number eight-oh-ten
To find a girl I once had known ;
I straightway offered her the job
To drive the moon for thirty bob.
Amelia was the lady’s name.
I knew her in a private bar,
And long ago she sometimes came
For summer drives upon my star;
She understood the steering gear
Almost as well as drawing beer.
She jumped at what I offered straight;
She promised to be down at seven
And meet me at the second gate
That onens in the wall of Heaven;
Engaged for work so sweet and wrong
She could not keep us waiting long.
It was a pleasant sight to see
The large moon shine on Watson’s Bay
while that young goddess sat by me
With half her dark hair blown astray;
We were aware—ah, none so well —
The smiling night would never tell.
Tim hours went by on flying feet,
With throbbing hearts we saw them trip,
every moment made more sweet
The wonder-scarlet of her lip ;
But.when I saw the moon droop low
I cried, “Amelia, take her slow !”
Aurora brought our morning tea
And buttered toast with rosy hand;
Day wakened on the eastern sea
And splashed large gold along the land.
JLhe hour had struck ; re wandered down
And took the ferry back to town.
N - s - w -
CURSE O' MOSES.
The Double-bed Dialogues.
SINGLE BEDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WOMAN is the cuddling sex.
Babette is a woman. When she
was a girl, she told me, she hated
to sleep by herself. The one need of her
soul, as far back as she could remember,
was something to cuddle. For a while a
doll sufficed, hut there came a time when
she unconsciously sought something larger
and warmer. She found it in an elder
sister. Every night she went to sleep hap-
pily and comfortably entwined in her sis-
ter’s arms. There is a softness in a woman’s
curves that seems specially adapted for the
art of comfortably cuddling.
In Bahette’s innocent young dreams
marriage was merely a state where there
was something much more interesting, if a
little more bony and nubbly, than even a
plump and cosy sister.
But the male is not built that way. I
shall never forget the relief, the pride, the
happiness of my boyhood on the night when
I was promoted to a separate bed. And, as
I grew up, on the few occasions when cir-
cumstances have compelled me to share a
bed with another man, I passed an uncom-
fortable night. Bed, to me, was a place
where I could enjoy the luxury of escaping
contact with humanity. Then I wake
easily, and I have got into the bad habit of
reading myself to sleep. In my few sane
intervals during my engagement I
reluctantly pondered this aspect of
marriage. Marriage meant a double bed.
It meant that I could not stretch without
the possibility of waking Babette, that I
would have to turn over cautiously, that I
would have to put out the light when she,
and not when I, was sleepy. But those sane
intervals were few and brief, and the en-
gagement conviction returned to me that
when I was married to Babette I never
would be sleepy. Nor would Babette.
Of course, during the first few months the
novelty of dropping off to sleep with a slim,
warm, soft arm under my neck and a plait
of beautiful hair in my mouth sufficed me.
And though I occasionally got a crick in
my neck and a mouthful of nice hair, and
woke in the middle of the night to find that
Babette had stolen all the blankets and had
pushed me to the extreme edge of the big
double bed, these were nothing compared
with the delight of —(see above).
But Babette snores. And in the summer
even the contact with her softness —there
was so much of her softness —was a little
uncomfortable. Babette, being of the
cuddling sex, never noticed it, or liked it;
and if I had mentioned it, she would have
scornfully reminded me that she took two
baths a day, and that I took only one. And
in the winter, though in a way her physical
abundance acts as a pleasant radiator,
Babette has cold, cold feet. There is a
delightful unconsciousness in the way she
uses me as a hot-water bottle.
After those first few months of honey-
moon I began to brood. When furnishing
the house she had come bravely to help me
choose the double bed; and from her prac-
tical remarks during the selection no one
would have suspected that this was the
first double bed that she had chosen. She
had the delightful air of lumping the double
bed with the rest of the furniture of the
whole house. The salesman was, I am
sure, impressed. But after I had left her
to choose the two next items on our list,
the wedding ring and the garbage-tin—both
equally indispensable for a happy married
life —and sending her off to inspect gas-
stoves, I slunk back to the furniture house
and surreptitiously ordered a little single
bed for my dressing-room.
“What on earth is that thing for?”
Babette cried when the men were unpacking
it.
I explained. “You know, we may have a
visitor, a girl friend of yours may have to
be put up for a night some time, and we
must have another bed.”
“I see,” she exclaimed radiantly. “Now
there needn’t be any trouble in asking
mother down to stay.”
I left it at that, but suggested that, until
we got the spare room properly fitted up
(we never did: it was always the one room
in the house that was kept locked, for
Babette did her sewing in it, and occasion-
ally was known to tidy it) we might as well
leave the single bed in my dressing-room.
So there it was, with no sheets, but a nice
coverlet that Babette bought out of her
own household linen money.
And now I often looked longingly at it.
I had insisted on it being of a man’s, and
not of a woman’s, length, with six inches to
spare at the bottom. It is astonishing how
short the average bed is made. It is pro-
bably due to a generous impulse on the part
of the manufacturers to compensate women
for the height of tramcar steps and the
height of the average park seat and tram
seat. Even the ordinary chair leaves 48
per cent, of female legs desolately dangling.
And in shops some malignant devil has pro-
vided chairs so high that the tired female
shopper can only lean against them. But
then woman is fortunately so built that she
can quite easily lean against a high chair
without any possibility that she will slip
off. Still, it isn’t fair on woman to take
advantage of her hips.
One night, on coming to bed, I found
Babette asleep. This did not often happen,
because when she had gone up to undress,
and I had settled down for a quiet read in
my big comfortable chair —my only chance
of occupying it during the evening—she
would hover on the top of the stairs and
gently call: —
“Aren't you coming up to bed, dear?”
And if I replied, “In a minute, love,” she
would sigh and _ sit down on the stairs to
wait for the expiration of that minute. Con-
sequently it was always rather a short
minute.
But this night she had been tired. She
had bought a new hat, and had gone up to
do her hair nine ways in order to see which
particular pad was necessary. I had been
called up nine times to deliver judgment.
I rather disappointed her, I fear, for I had
gone into nine ecstasies, which pleased but
naturally confused her. And then I had
taken up my book and forgotten all about
(Continued on next page.)


ARM RIPPED BY BARBED WIRE'
Wound Festered and Inflamed, and Throbbing
Made Sleep Impossible Many Treatments Failed.
V.
u
A«
ss
Mr. HILL, whose arm was
healed by Zam-Buk.
MAN’S GRATITUDE TO ZAM-BUK
A BADLY poisoned arm, which crip-
pled him for seven months, was
the after results of Mr. H. Hill,
of 16 Windmill Street, New Farm, Bris-
bane, trying to get through a barbed-
wire fence. Read Mr. Hill’s story of
how, when the doctor’s treatment failed,
Zam-Buk performed a splendid healing-
feat. “I was getting through a barbed-
wire fence when I badly ripped open my
forearm,” he said. “The wound fes-
tered and gradually became worse. In
the opening, the edges of which yawned
apart, matter filled in and my arm in-
flamed in a terrible manner. ' The pain
was awful, for the wound would throb
and throb, making it nigh unbearable.
At night I could not sleep, and although
I used many remedies, as well as an
ointment which a doctor prescribed, I
did not get any relief.
“After I had suffered for over seven
months a friend persuaded me to com-
mence using Zam-Buk, as she herself
had great faith in it. I purchased a
supply, and shortly after the first appli-
cation, I obtained much ease. The inflam-
mation and throbbing pains were not so
bad, and a corresponding benefit was
noticed after each application. Inflam-
mation was drawn out and the wound
cleansed of all impurities. I persevered
with Zam-Buk until the injury had
completely knitted together and healed
up in a splendid manner.
“We always keep Zam-Buk by us.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
1/6
and
3/6
per
pot.
■
ft
<**
to
90
SOOTHES
and
HEALS,
Zam-Buk ends Eczema, Inflamed
Pimples, Hash and Scalp Sores; also Bad Pegs,
Ulcers, Diseased Ankles, Piles, Pestered Sores. Cuts,
Burns, Scalds, Swellings, Stiff Joints and Rheumatism.
In fact, Zam-Buk is so invaluable as an all-round healer
that no family should be without it. Of all chemists and
stores, 1/6 and 3/6 per pot (3/6 size contains nearly four times the 1/6).
Chamberlain's
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly., Wliat
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief-
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
When you have a bad taste in your mouth
and your breath is foul you may know you
need a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets.
They will cleanse your stomach, improve
your appetite and make you feel like a
new man. They are just the thing for
the stomach and liver.
ter. You see, the honeymoon was about
over.
&t her asleep. She had been
reading, and her bare white arm still held
the novel open at the place where the
chauffeur first met the Montenegrin princess.
I gently took the book from her hand, with-
out awakening her, slipped downstairs and
brought up my own book, crept with it into
bed, and cautiously began to read.
“Oh,” said Babette, sleepily and peevishly,
“you’re not going to read at this time of
night, surely V”
That had been my intention. “You turn
over, dear, and go to sleep again.”
Babette gave me a slow, reproachful
look; and when that happens a husband
knows he has no chance. I shut my book,
rolled out of bed and turned off the gas.
She wriggled across the little ridge of
mountain that had already begun to be
formed by the mattress, and, like a nice
octopus, fell on me in sleepy warmth.
“Ah,” she luxuriously sighed, composing
herself to sleep.
“Babette,” 1 said, “have I ever suggested
our sleeping in separate beds?”
She straightened, disentangled herself, and
opened her eyes.
“Separate beds? Whatever for?”
“Oh,” I said weakly. “It’s more comfort-
able, for one thing.”
“More comfy?” she asked, with frank in-
credulity.
“It’s all right for a woman —she’s built
that way ; but with a man it’s different. He
wants a bed to himself.”
“Well?” Babette asked frigidly.
“Sometimes,” I hurriedly qualified.
Babette was thinking. Whenever a
woman troubles herself to think you know
that she is merely trying to discover a way
to put you in the wrong. At all costs I had
to stop her clever little brain working.
“Then it’s more healthy,” I quickly said.
“The doctors tell you that. More air. It’s
a mathematical fact that two persons sleep-
ing in the same room produce twice as much
carbonic acid gas as one does.”
“Aren’t our windows always open?” she
retorted. “Isn’t there enough fresh air for
both of us? My lungs are smaller than
yours, anyway.”
“I’m not accusing you of deliberately pro-
ducing carbonic acid gas. I’m merely stat-
ing the general medical opinion.”
“You just read that somewhere in some
dull scientific book,” she said, with a woman’s
intense contempt for anything but romantic
fiction. v
“Dearest,” I said. “I’m merely raising the
question. I wouldn’t do anything that you
object to. I thought we might just discuss
it rationally and impersonally.”
“You mean,” she sharply cried, “that
you’re tired of me?”
‘‘Nonsense ! You know very well that”
“You must be tired of me to even mention
the subject, to even think of such an awful
thing. I knew you couldn’t love me as much
as I love you.” Her voice broke —and her
voice is the one beautiful thing in the world
that is more beautiful when it breaks. “All
right,” she said pitiably, “if you hate my
bed, if you hate me, you can go and sleep by
yourself. It is a wife’s duty to obey even
when her husband is a brute. I’m sure I
don’t want to interfere with your selfish com-
fort. I’d rather sleep by myself, anyhow.”
“Babette!”
She had turned her back. Her back had
won. After half-an-hour’s pleading she did
not shrink at my touch, and five minutes later
she sank contentedly asleep on my arm. It
had gone to sleep, too.
Nothing was said about separate beds for
a week. Then one night the torrent burst.
“I told mother what you had suggested,”
she began. “That you wanted to sleep bv
yourself in a separate bed—in this cold
weather, too. She was shocked. She said
it was a sign of what she had always sus-
pected—that you didn’t love me as much as
I loved you. She said most men were like
that.”
.1 protested that Babette had altogether
misunderstood me, and that, anyway, I had
quite given up the idea.
“And I told Marion and Grace,” she tri-
umphantly concluded.
Marion is her greatest girl friend, and
though she does not seem the type likely to get
married, she appears, from Babette’s account
of their conversation, remarkably interested
in the details of married life. I sometimes
feel, when I meet Marion, that she knows
exactly how many suits of pyjamas I possess
and the color of their stripes. Grace is
the useful young married woman who gave
Babette those astonishingly full details on
the management of a husband. She began
imparting her special knowledge long before
the engagement was announced.
“And they both said it was dreadful.
Marion even thought it cowardly, but I
stood up for you. Grace couldn’t understand
how you could get tired of me so soon after
our honeymoon. She said a separate bed was a
taxi to the Divorce Court. And Marion
said that she would never, never marry now.
Not that she’s ever likely to, with that flat
back,” Babette added with scrupulous fair-
ness. “And only to-day Mrs. Bleak asked
me in the tram if it was true that you always
locked the door of your bedroom every night?
And she will speak so loud in a tram. I
had to say it was absolutely untrue; but
she’s gone away to spread the rumor, and
everybody will know by to-night that our
marriage is a failure. Mother is coming
down to-morrow.”
“You surely have more sense than to pay
attention to woman’s gossip. You’re a
woman yourself, aren’t you? You know
well enough that I’m in love with you, and
will always be in love with you.”
“And yet you hate to sleep in the same
bed with me,” she replied. “I’m sure I’m
nice enough to sleep with; and what is the
use of all my pretty nighties if there is no-
body to see me in them? The next thing
will be that I’ll get ill, and have to get the
doctor down. He’s never seen me in a nightie
yet.”
The doctor is young and unmarried —a
thing no doctor should ever be.
I would not give in. “But don’t you see,
Babette, dear, there’s more involved in it
than appears. It’s for our own happiness.
Separate beds are the only way for us to pre-
serve our married happiness. We should
make it a rule not to see too much of each
other —before it is too late. Why, I’ve never
seen you undress yourself yet, Babette?"
“I should think not,” she said, indignantly
flushing. “But I’ve often wondered why you
never wanted to.”
tt . '-i'be defect in marriage,” I said earnestly,
the honeymoon comes to an end.”
‘You mean to say our honeymoon’s over
already?” Babette wailed.
“W ell, in spots. But it’s just because
it isn t over that I want to preserve
the honeymoon feeling. And the only way
to do that is to take great care of our honey-
moon. The happiest marriage I ever read
about was one in which the husband lived in
the northern hemisphere and the wife in the
southern hemisphere, and once every year
the husband crossed the Equator, and even
then he had to climb up a rope ladder to his
wife’s room in the moonlight. It gave a
kind of romance to what after a few years
becomes only a kind of pleasant dullness.”
Babette almost wept. “And you only want
to see me once per annum! Though I think
I would rather like the rope-ladder idea.”
And after a silence she grew quite delighted
with the romance of it. “You know,” she
said, “we could easily fix up a sort of rope-
ladder from your dressing-room.”
I gave up. No woman has yet been
created who can discuss general principles.
But the affair was not ended. Next day
I was asked by a friend, whose wife is a
friend of my wife’s, why I had separated
from Babette, and when she was going to
bring her case into the courts, and whether
the co- was that neat little typewriter in
my office with the very short ’ skirt. And
that night, just as I was putting on my
pyjamas, I heard an ominous sound —the key
turning squeakily in my wife’s bedroom-door.
I knocked. The only answer was Babette’s
best snore.
“Babette!” I called, hoping that the maid
would not hear. “You’re uot asleep.”
“I am asleep,” Babette indignantly re-
plied. “At least, I was, till you rudely woke
me up. Is it morning yet?”
“Your door’s locked.”
"Of course, it’s locked. Good-night, dar-
ling. I hope you sleep well.”
“I shan’t sleep at all.”
“Why, Henry; isn’t your bed warm
enough? I put an extra blanket on it to-
day.”
“But I’m not sleeping in my bed.”
“Where are you going to sleep, then?”
Babette permitted herself an undignified
curiosity.
“On your doorstep.”
“How romantic! Fancy my Henry think-
ing of such a nice thing as that!”
There was nothing further to be said. I
miserably waited.
At last I heard her slip from the bed-
clothes and try to steal to the door to find
out if I was really still there. But, of
course, Babette couldn’t steal. She tramped.
A woman is so accustomed to high heels that
when she is without them she just thumps
along. She waited at the door. Then, evi-
dently satisfied that I had gone back to my
dressing-room, she quickly unlocked the door.
Quick as I was, when I entered her room
she was in bed, with her dear eyes obsti-
nately closed.
I slunk into the double bed. Babette
shrank from me. I kissed her. She tri-
umphantly smiled.
“Was its doorstep awful cold?” she bur-
bled.
“Cold and hard —like my wife.”
“Ah!” Babette edged nearer.
The gas was still on. I noticed by the
low-tide appearance of Babette’s bosom that
she was wearing her wedding-night nightie.
I hadn’t seen it again since our marriage.
Once when I asked about it, Babette blush-
ingly said she had put it away in lavender
and moth-ball. To Babette’s soul, I judged,
there was something sacred in a wedding-
nightie. There was a good deal of moth-ball
about it still.
But I didn’t mind.
“Oh,” Babette cried, “I knew you loved
me. I knew that mother and Marion and
Grace were all wrong. The horrible things
they said about you! I shall never forgive
mother. ”-
“I’m delighted to hear that,” I said. “But.
you know, this —this incident hasn’t settled
the question of single beds.”
“Doesn’t this settle it?” she radiantly
smiled.
“I admit it’s a compromise,” I said, kiss-
ing her right shoulder; “but it hasn’t been
settled by logic.”
“Oh, logic!” she happily sneered.
I recognised then that the only logic a
woman knows is the logic of herself. Babette
was the logic. She and her marriage nightie
were the two indisputable premises from
which I could draw only one conclusion. An
irrefutable logic.
I told her so; then I remembered my
principles. “Well,” I said, after I had
sufficiently kissed her, “I’ve only come in
just to kiss you good-niglit, Babette. I’m
so glad you put that extra blanket on my
bed.”
She sat up, at the infinite peril of slipping
clean out of her nightie. Luckily, however,
Babette is so built that, provided the deli-
cate lace holds, this could never happen.
“You actually mean to say that you’re
going to leave me, after all?” she gasped.
“Haven’t we thrashed the whole thing
out, Babette?” I sternly replied. “Haven’t
we both agreed that for hygienic reasons,,
and for the preservation of our love for
each other, we must sleep apart?”
She considered a moment before answer-
ing. “Yes, I see,” she seriously said-
“ Logically, you’re right, Henry. Well,,
good-night.”
Babette leant over me—and when
Babette leans over you there seems a lot of
her —and kissed me good-night. At least
her kiss began as a good-niglit kiss, and
then changed into a kiss of the honeymoon
species, though they are quite distinct. I
cannot describe exactly the difference.
I submitted to the first portion of Bab-
ette’s kiss; but the concluding end, or ter-
mination, or tail, needed some response. I
kissed in response. Then I seemed to fall’
asleep.
Next morning I looked at my single bed.
Babette had not even taken the trouble to
put sheets in it. Woman ha» a logic off
her own before which Euclid is an imbecile.
Still, I think I can say that not all women
are so delightfully logical as Babette.
Those sheets are not on my single bed'
yet. In fact, since Babette’s mother hopes
soon to be coming to stay with us, I intend
sending the affair unostentatiously to a»
public auction room.
HENRY JAMES JAMES.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE)
CHAIN DRIVES.
wm m
rtmm
mm
. • W • -
*1 % 5
r
‘V-r
■fe 111
IS ; Ml
| 1
"ml 1
HE
■ IttSilflg W*' * ’ ]
' , 1
■ -~" r ' “ I
The resistance due to the sliding
friction at the joint, inseparable
from chains of the solid joint pin
type, is eliminated, and the fullest
advantage is taken of the power
developed by the Motor by
utilising the patent
ROCKER JOINT.
08 per cent. Efficiency.
Made in units from \ to 1000 h.p.
Full Particulars from
Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Have You Considered
BOUNDER
RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Peed up to 150 ft. per minute.
ĝdf
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
Metz-“22,” £l9O
The Simple Oar for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.s.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderitely-priced Car it will
pa”y ypu to investigate the METZ, Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-built
Waver ley,
From £350 to £375
Nett.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works Sturt St.. South Melbourne.
SvftH&TWOWG
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong l Traction Wen-Soring Machine
MOVEIS WITHOUT HORSES
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Kay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
in its new shape and style has proved extremely popular.
Australia’s National Magazine contains special and original features
in every issue. You cannot afford to miss a single number. Why pot
subscribe? Post free throughout Australia, 6/-; Foreign, 9/-
I
THE LITTLE THINGS
THAT
« „ • !
COUNT
S -
/~'i
* \t\
K
VI
HEM
m
V
prs?**'
jaw®
ana you
can always
count on
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
'PHONE—City 7091.
S&wmillers, Joiners and
Cabinet Maliers
If You rcc:u : ro
SAWMILL AND \V OO D WORKING
MACHINES, comr ;::.ioatc direct with
the MANUFACTURERS.
W« can give you expert adviee. The Manufac-
turers’ prices will suit you. Cash or easy terms.
Catalogue and all information free. We carry
the largest stock of Woodworking Machines in
Australasia. Call at our stand at the forthcom-
ing Eoyal Easter Show.
KIRCHNER CD. CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
VARIETY WOOD WORKER.
!i
r
'i'SwSiZ-
gdfgfd
Arms and Ammunition
Appeal to Fathers and Mothers
Because they are realizing more
every day that safety lies in knowl-
edge and not ignorance of fire arms
and so the youngsters are being
encouraged to shoot and taught to
do it well. Those who want to take
the first step right should examine
a Remington-UMC Repeater.
Don’t let your boy shoot a rifle
that has not a solid-breech —a verit-
able wall of steel between the car-
tridge and the shooter’s eyes. The
Reminglon-UMC has this and many
other valuable features.
Ask your dealer to show you one.
If he can’t do so, write to us or
our nearest representative.
We will tell you all about it
and where to it to the best
advantage.
Get our free book “Straight Shooting Tips” also the Remington-UMC
catalogue of arms and ammunition. The above and a beautiful
art hanger suitable for framing sent free on request.
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299*301 Broadway - New York, U. S. A.
Australian Representative: D. D. Bryant, P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS’ USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per minute.
Scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES.
u
QF AUSTRALIA Lie*.
SYDNEY t Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: 61 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul & Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
fgd
%
Sure
and
Specify
DICK'S
BELTING
Sole Agents—
Jas. ttardie S Co.
Circular Quay.
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE
r
*
DALC ETY.flf Cv.LTVj
TS *~ . ;j;
ill
\S*VOH
YVV-
Union ” Harvester
Clayton & shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
i
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine
DALGETY 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
A nr/uniFc —>,
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLE WORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaff cutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
Yale ff Towm Manufacturing Co.’s Hoists
We have large stocks of Chain Hoists made by the above Co. We have four
kinds and 20 sizes to handle every Hoisting need.
The Triplex for speed;
The Duplex for handiness;
The Differential is the cheapest reliable chain block; and
The Electric for rapid hoisting.
Steel Gears, Steel Sheave, Steel Chain, Steel Hooks, Steel Cover.
The safety of every Triplex Block is guaranteed.
We would like to show you them in operation, or we would post you Catalogue
and Prices on application.
H. P. GREGORY CO..
Engineers and Machinery Merchants*
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY*
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT, THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
ARBURTON,
■*
SOLE # AGENTS,
'-j' •V; l y 1*?
LTD.
;■ •
Kent Street, Sydney;
and
DANGAR GEDYE & CO.
9-13 Young' Street, Sydney.
The highest standard of Sheep°Shearing
Machine Science. Its fame is universal.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable
with the “ Wolseley.”
Lister spare parts lead in durability and
superiority.
is
Ss6e BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
6»e CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
&he AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
i In Other Words —
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
99
A
1
J§.
m
1
The Fastest of ail Rock
Drills and Simplest in
Construction.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
.V
.
iWS
The LOWEST Air Con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
STOCKS HELD AT SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, PERTH.
A
'/
I 'A 1 11 I'
■
>5
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
525 Collins St., Melbourne
puts qjaaa “QX! 03
