

the Whisky of Sterling Value
Machinery Merchants,
107 Kent street:, Sydney,
Minin? and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’“and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
° .irTinMcbDc cno MArHiNFiiv f>tr Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secondhand Plants always available.
WE ADVANC E
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST,
M-5-W- MONT
>£ A3NCIAS ‘133«1S
DV3iI33XSVD f£
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne
Te
'
hone: No. 225 Central.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
fds
HOBART,
(idles’ t Orient f rill.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
AS.
laiAK
Bottle, Case or Gallotv at Wholesale Price.
\
. Take it back. "
I must have
HUTTON* S
Finc-Applcßrand
HAMS ®
BACON.
fs
STEEL AND
CONCRETE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Hansens
fd
sf
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
sd
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
!
9
Koval
Dutch
COCOA.
SUPERIOR
everyway;
m
m
1
AMIWUD will give you panelled effect at
reasonable cost.
How ofte i have you admired the dignified and stately appearance of Old English panelled rooms, wondering if you cou d
afford such in your home? Amiwud will give you the exact effect at a fraction of the cost of the oak in the ng is
homes. Amiwud is a perfect reproduction of the best Hardwoods, Every tone and gram is faithfully reproduced
It can be nailed to the studs in a new house or to the wails of an old one. May we send you samples and booklets ?
Paint Co.
uoSbuuw üß!Sß|«^sn V
*SMVA3 ‘S •a
Challis House, Sydney.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
p
§
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. O.
'WEEK OF STATES:
CHOICE .
Telegraphic Address—BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
SPA
The Helidon Spa Water Co,, in its extensive distribution, has
placed “the rational water cure” within reach of all'.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Yol. 35.—N0. 1797.]
[Thursday, July 23, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HANDY BOOKS
(Postages shown
in parentheses.')
Audel’s Household Helps, Hints & Receipts. 2/6 (3d.).
Conover, Making a Poultry House, lllus. 2/- (Id.).
Artistic Australian Homes (100 plans). 3/6 (Id.)
Miss Fowler’s Cook Book. 1/- (Id.).
Lee’s Priceless Recipes. 1/- (2d.).
De Lissa’s Cooking by Gas. 9d. (Id.).
Purton’s Up-To-Date Poultry Culture. 1/- (Id.).
Pears’ Cyclopaedia. Entirely new edition. 1/3 (4d.).
WE WELCOME INQUIRIES.:
At GEORGE
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth, as a focal or starting; point.
The mouth being; . the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic known, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth- in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Larynx or
organ of voice.
The Trachea or
windpipe.
fd
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I). A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
HTTP SON’S THTME\TTTOT, .TTT.TTTRES
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OP CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers* Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods.” [4
The Printed Drama
The Red Page
Shaw s Misalliance, The Dark Lady of the
A and First Play (Constable,
per Sydney Book Club), make a belated
appearance. Misalliance and The Dark
Lady are dated 1910, and Fanny 1911.
Since then Sha.w has had several plays pro-
a.uced. Misalliance is similar .in construe-'
tion to Letting Married, in that the play is
written in one act, without break, and also
in that it consists chiefly of conversation.
Ut course it is brilliant conversation, though
occasionally one wonders what it is all
about. In the house of John Tarleton, the
inventor of Tarleton’s underwear, there are
Mis. larleton, their son, their daughter,
Hypatia, and various acquaintances. Hy-
patia is a typical English girl of a sort
never called typical: that is, she has an
opaque white skin, black hair, large dark
eyes with black brows and lashes, curved
lips, swift glances” and movements that flash
out ot a waitjng stillness, boundless energy
and audacity held in leash.” In brief, she
]f T * graceful vessel brimming with Shaw’s
Lire I orce. . She is going to marry Bent-
l t r, e undersized son of Lord Summerhays.
Not that she loves him. She likes him to
kiss her just as she likes a baby to kiss her,
and he never bores her. She knows too
much to risk marrying a man for love. That
would make a perfect slave of you. “There’s
a sort of instinct against it, I think, that’s
just as strong as the other instinct.” But
she feels she must marry someone; and of
the men she’s met Bentley’s the best of the
bunch. But the Life Force takes a hand.
I’m . fed up with nice things: with re-
spectability, with propriety ! When a woman
has nothing to do, money and respectability
mean that nothing is ever allowed to happen
to her. I don’t want to be good; and I
don t want to be bad: I just don’t want to
be bothered about either good or bad: I want
to be an active verb 1 want to be; I
want to do; and I’m game to suffer if it
costs that.. . .Stay down here with us for a
week; and I’ll show you what it means
Girls withering into ladies. Ladies wither-
ing into old maids. Nursing old women.
Running errands for old men. Oh, you can’t
imagine the fiendish selfishness of the old
people and the maudlin sacrifice of the
young... .Oh, home ! parents ! family ! duty !
how I loathe them ! The poor escape. The
wicked escape. Well, I can’t be poor. But
I can be wicked.”
Certainly, as her father remarks, super-
abundant vitality is a physical fact that
can’t be talked away.
Into the interminable discussion an aero-
plane drops. The aviator is Percival, a
friend of Bentley’s ; the aviator’s passenger,
once out of the aviator’s costume, turns out
to be a lady, a Polish acrobat. Tarleton
promptly offers to make a fool of himself
over her —she has a supply of Life Force,
too —but when she learns that he still loves
his wife she refuses his offer. Next Per-
cival appears, pursued by Hypatia, whose
Life Force is evidently on the boil. She is
obviously a cousin of Ann, for almost her
first remark is: “You may kiss me if you
catch me.” Percival is shy, and refuses to
chase her. Hypatia replies, “Yes, you will:
you can’t help yourself. Fool, fool: come
along. Don’t you want to?” And when
he protests, “Really, Miss Tarleton!” she
smacks his face. He bolts. She flies in
pursuit.
Meantime the son of a woman whom
Tarleton had “ruined” years ago, and com-
pletely forgotten, appears with a revolver
to kill her seducer. He doesn’t. Tarleton
talks at him, and Lina, the Polish acrobat,
disarms him. Then Hypatia reappears, this
time the pursued, with Percival the pursuer.
As he can’t afford to marry, having only
£lOOO a year, Hypatia says, “Papa: buy
the brute for me.” And the play ends, be-
cause there is nothing more to talk about.
The Dark Lady of the Sonnets shows us
Shakespeare meeting Mary Fitton at night
on the terrace of the palace at Whitehall.
He mistakes a cloaked lady for his mis-
tress, and finds too late that it is Elizabeth.
The queen enters, walking in her sleep, mur-
tnuring, “Out, damned spot. You will mar
all with these cosmetics. God made you one
face; and you make yourself another. Think
of your grave, woman, not ever of being
beautified. All the perfumes of Arabia will
not whiten this Tudor hand.” Will Shake-
speare has his tablets out instantly, and
jots down these priceless honeyed phrases
for subsequent use, just as he had picked
up from, the Beefeater on guard such phrases
as “Angels and ministers of grace defend
us” and “Frailty: thy name is woman.”
Pleasant fooling.
Fanny's First Play h&s been produced in
Melbourne and Sydney: a criticism of its
plot would be superfluous. But it is the only
play in the book.
The complete edition of The Plays of Leo
Tolstoy, translated by L. and A. Maude
(Constable, per Sydney Book Club), in-
cludes Tolstoy’s posthumous plays. Tolstoy
wrote only six plays, and of these two are
slight things dealing with vodka, and another
is unfinished. His first play, The Power
of Darkness (1886), is, dramatically, his
best; his last, The Light Shines in Darkness,
with the last act left only in a brief scen-
ario, is, dramatically, his worst. The reason
is that Tolstoy did not start playwriting
till he was 58. He confesses that he would
have more often turned to the stage, recog-
nising the advantages a play possesses over
a novel as a means of propaganda, had it
not been for the existence of the Russian
censor.
The Power of Darkness is a piece of the
grimmest realism. Tolstoy exposes the sor-
didness and the horror of peasant life in
this si-ory of a decent young peasant who,
through the machinations of women, is drawn
into, first, a passive acquiescence in the mur-
der of his master, and then into the actual
commission of a more horrible murder. It
is the epic of the descent into Hell of a
character that is merely weak. There is
one scene that is extremely interesting to
the playwright. Nikita, after marrying the
woman who, for him, had poisoned her hus-
band, seduces a girl of 16, the daughter of
the dead man. The child is actually being
born when the matchmakers arrive to com-
plete the formalities for the marriage of
this girl with another peasant. It is neces-
sary to keep secret the girl’s condition. This
is successfully done; but the child is born.
Nikita’s mother, who had provided the poison
necessary for the murder of the man, com-
pels Nikita to do away with the baby. She
is to kill it, and Nikita is to bury it in the
cellar. But on the point of strangling the
infant she remembers that it has not yet
been baptised. She finds a cross and bap-
tises it, then brings it to Nikita. He is
horror-stricken when he finds that it is still
alive. But the women make him kill it. He
does so, horribly. Originally this scene was
set just outside the cellar, and everything
except the actual killing of the infant in
the cellar was shown to the audience. But
Tolstoy wrote another version, the one that
is usually acted. In this version the horrors
of the incident are even increased, for they
have the. powerful imagination of the unseen
to magnify them. The burying of the child
is not shown. Instead the playwright takes
us to the interior of the hut and lets us
learn through a little child’s shrewd sus-
picions the dreadful thing that is happening
outside. This version is less crude, more
artistic. . The method is one frequently em-
ployed by Maeterlinck to heighten the illu-
sion of horror.
**
The Live Corpse is well fitted for the
stage. A husband who prefers the society
of gipsies to that of his wife and child is
willing to give his wife her freedom to marry
again, but shrinks from the' perjury that is
necessary before she, in Russia, can get a
divorce. He chooses to pretend to commit
suicide ; and ;• his presumed widow marries
again. But a blackmailer discovers the iden-
tity of the husband; and the woman and her
second husband are prosecuted for bigamy.
Circumstahtial evidence is against them;
and, according to Russian law, the worst
that will happen to them is the exile of the
alleged dead ®nan and his wife to Siberia,
the best, church penance and annulment of
the second marriage. Once before the
“corpse” had tried to commit suicide;
now, while the case is still undecided, he
summons up his courage and shoots himself.
The characterisation of the “live corpse” is
typically Russian. The literature of that
empire is full of these gentle, drifting, in-
decisive, decent and almost innocent wasters.
The Light Shines in Darkness, the cele-
brated drama that Tolstoy left unfinished at
his death, is dramatically a failure, but has
a much more interesting personal appeal. Into
this, play Tolstoy deliberately put himself. It
is his apology for his own life, and especially
for his attempt to lead a life on the lines
of Christ while remaining in his own aristo-
cratic home. Tolstoy forgot that Christ had
no wife and no family. Herein he had put
his wife and his children; though they mav
rightly protest that their portraits are pre-
judiced. In the delineation of himself he
spares himself, nothing: he shows the conflict
between his ideals and his realisation of
them; he admits the failure of this heroic
attempt to introduce the Christian virtues
into our complex and sophisticated civilisa-
tion. In the brief draft of the unwritten fifth
act occurs this speech : “I am always in doubt
whether I have done right. I have accom-
plished nothing. Boris has perished, Yasily
has recanted. I set an example of weakness.
Evidently God does not wish me to be his
servant. He has many other servants —and
can accomplish his will without me, and he
who realises this is at peace.” Accordingly
he shoots himself.
JS
In D. H. Lawrence, the author of The
White Peacock, The Trespasser, Sons and
Lovers, the drama has found another Synge.
Three years ago Lawrence was unknown,
with not _one book published; and now he
is only 27. He was born in a coal-miner’s
cottage at Eastwood, and he drew largely
upon his home-life for the material of Sons
and Lovers. When 12 years old he won a
County Council Scholarship, and but for
his mother’s self-sacrifice he could not have
availed himself of this chance, for the £l5
a year would barely have paid his fees at
the Nottingham High School and the rail-
way fares to that city. He became next a
teacher of a class of rough colliers’ boys,
and studied at home. At 19 ho came first
on the list of the King’s Scholarship exami-
nation, but lacked the £2O necessary to en-
able him to pay the entrance fee at
the training college for teachers. Two years
later, however, he matriculated at the Not-
tingham Day Training College; but already
he had begun to write. At 23 he went to
London to teach school and study French
and German. At 25 The White Peacock
was printed. In 1912, after the publication
of his second novel, he was able to give up
teaching. The death of his mother was pro-
bably the inspiration for his beautiful Sons
and Lovers and his horrible drama. The
Widowing of Mrs. Holroyd (Duckworth).
. The action of this play takes place in the
kitchen of a miner’s small cottage. Hoi-
royd is a drunken miner. Blackmore, an
educated young miner, is in love with Mrs.
Holroyd. There are two children. They
are frightened when their father comes home
drunk. Holroyd ' has been drinking at a
pub, and, in drunken bravado, brings two
drabs home. Outraged by this insult, Mrs.
Holroyd tells him that she ? s “had enough.”
Two hours later Blackmore brings the
husband back, drunk and suspicious. A fight
follows, and Blackmore trips the drunken
antagonist. With the limp body of the husband
between them, as Blackmore says, “like a
drawn sword”—the only literary touch in the
play, and therefore untrue —the man and
the woman learn of their love for each other,
and both wish Holroyd dead. Mrs. Holroyd
confesses that she loves her husband no
more, and when Blackmore appeals to her
to come away with him—to Spain, where
he can get a job—and take the children, she
counters: “But you don’t love me?” She
feels it, but cannot explain; and when Black-
more asks her if she loves him all this in-
articulate woman can say is: “I don’t know.
Everything is so —so” But in the end
Blackmore kisses her, and she reluctantly
consents to go with him in a day or so.
The following evening Holroyd is late for
his tea. The time goes on, and Holroyd is
still missing. Mrs. Holroyd learns that
there has been an accident at the mine, and
soon the men bring in Holroyd, dead. The
play ends with the stricken woman, awed
by the swiftness with which the death she
had wished for her husband has come, dis-
missing Blackmore ; and, in a scene of dread-
ful pathos, she and the dead man’s mother
proceed to wash the body and lay it out for
burial.
Thus baldly stated, the plot is the plot of
a melodrama; but the artistry of its dia-
logue places it aipong the few modern great
tragedies. The material of the drama is
the grimmest realism, but Lawrence’s method
of presentation makes of it an indubitable
work of art. There is not a superfluous
word in these curt interchanges of speech ;
there is no literary or theatric artifice in
these tense scenes of tragedy. The char-
acter of the woman, inarticulate, hesitatingly
groping for the expression of her confused
emotions, is expressed in short and often
uncompleted sentences, and yet from these
broken exclamations the real woman emerges
with the grandeur of the figure in Greek
tragedy. Indeed, the whole play, with its
sense of grirp, unhurried fate driving the
characters oh to the final inevitable im-
passe, is purely Greek. Out of the most
commonplace materials Lawrence, like
Synge, has created a work of art. Take any
passage—this one almost at random*: Over
the body of the husband lying drunk the
lover and the wife speak.
Blackmore : I suppose you’re fond of him,
really ?
Mrs. Holroyd : No more.
Blackmore: You were fond of him?
Mrs. Holroyd: I was— yes.
Blackmore: What did you like in him?
Mrs. Holroyd (uneasily) : I don’t know.
Blackmore: I suppose you really care
for him, even now.
Mrs. Holroyd : Why are you so sure of it?
Blackmore : Because I think it is so.
Mrs. Holroyd : I did care for., him— now
he has destroyed it —-—
Blackmore : I don't believe he can destroy
it.
Mrs. Holroyd (with a short laugh):
Don’t you? When you are married you try.
You’ll find it isn’t so hard.
There is nothing clever in that dialogue;
but no other speech could so effectively em-
phasise the woman’s love wavering between
her memories and this new attraction. And
then, the end, when the two stand before the
dead body of the man they wished dead:—
Blackmore: Well!
Mrs. Holroyd : This is a judgment on us.
Blackmore: Why?
Mrs. Holroyd : On me, it is •
Blackmore: How?
Mrs. Holroyd: It is. (Blackmore shakes
his head.) Yesterday you talked of murder-
ing him.
Blackmore: Well!
Mrs. Holroyd : Now we’ve done it.
Blackmore: How?
Mrs. Holroyd : He’d have come up with
the others (out of the mine), if he hadn’t
felt—felt me murdering him.
Blackmore : But we can’t help it.
Mrs. Holroyd: It’s my fault.
Blackmore : Don’t be like that!
And the grandmother, washing the grimy
body of her child, mutters: “Eh —and he’s
fair as a lily. Did you ever se s e a man with
a whiter skin—and flesh as fine” as the driven
snow. He’s beautiful, he is. the lamb.
Many’s a time I’ve looked at him, and I’ve
felt proud of him, I have. And now he lies
here. And such arms on ’im ! Look at the
vaccination marks, Lizzie. When I took
him to be vaccinated he had a little pink
bonnet with a feather. (Weeps.) Don’t
cry, rny girl, don’t. Sit up an’ wash him a’
that side, or we s’ll never have him done.
Oh, Lizzie!
Mrs. Holroyd (sitting up, startled) :
What—what?
Grandmother : Look at his poor hand!
(She holds up the right hand. The nails are
bloody.)
Mrs. Holroyd: 1 can’t touch his
hands.
Grandmother: But I’m his mother—
there’s nothing I couldn’t do for him.
Mrs. Holroyd (moaning) : Oh, what shall
I do!
Grandmother : Why, go thee an’ get his
feet washed. He’s setting stiff, and how shall
we get him laid out There’s hardly a
mark on him. Eh, what a man he is ! I’ve
had some fine sons, Lizzie, I’ve had some
big men of sons. •
Mrs. Holroyd : He was always a lot
whiter than me. And he used to chaff me...
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co. publishes a
shilling edition of Louis Becke’s posthumous
novel, The Adventures of Louis Blake, the
material of which is largely autobiographical.
Bernard Shaw’s Children
Our kiddies are slaves, says Bernard
Shaw, in his interesting preface to Misalli-
ance (Constable; Os. copies from Sydney
Book Club and Angus and Robertson). The
average father imposes himself upon his child
as a god. Kiddies have their rights: they
should have their own Magna Charta. Yet
it is impossible for children to live with
grown-ups without imposing rules of con-
duct upon them. “There is a point at which
every person with human nerves has to say
to a child, ‘Stop that noise!’ But suppose
the child asks why? ‘Because it irritates’
may fail; for it may strike the' child as
being rather amusing to irritate you; also
the child, having comparatively no nerves,
may be unable to conceive your meaning
vividly enough. In any case it may want
to make a noise more than to spare your
feelings.” Yet the child is sufficiently pro-
tected against physical cruelty. “The people
against whom children are wholly unpro-v.
tected are those who devote themselves to
the very mischievous and cruel sort of abor-
tion which is called bringing up a child in
the way it should go. Now nobody knows
the way a child should go. All the ways
discovered so far lead to the horrors' of our
existing civilisations.”
The disturbing fact is that a child is a
nuisance to a grown-up person. “The child
at play is noisy, and ought to be noisy: Sir
Isaac Newton at work is quiet, and ought
to be quiet. And the child should spend
most of its time at play, whilst the adult
should spend most of his time' at work.” The
family, which keeps these two classes
together, js a humbug. Parents recognise it
as a humbug by sending their children to
boarding-schools. “And there is, on , the
whole, nothing on earth intended for inno-
cent people so horrible as a school. To
begin with, it is a prison. But it is in
some respects more cruel than a prison....
in a prison they may torture your body; but
they do not torture your brains; and they
protect ypu against violence and outrage
from your fellow prisoners.” And the school-
masters, having to hang on to their jobs, are
as much prisoners as their pupils.
At his own school Shaw “was taught lying,
dishonorable submission to tyranny, dirty
stories, a blasphemous habit of treating love
and maternity as obscene jokes, hopelessness,
evasion, derision, cowardice, and all the
blackguard’s shifts by which the coward in-
timidates other cowards. And if I had been a
boarder at an English public school instead
of a <3ay boy at an Irish one, I might have
had to add to these deeper shames still.”
Shaw suggests that the remedy is to pro-
ceed on human assumptions, and not on
academic ones. Adults should frankly give
up their claim to know better than children
what the purposes of the Life Force are, and
treat the child as an experiment like them-
selves, and possibly a more successful one,
and, at the same time, relinquish their mon-
strous parental claims to personal private
property in children. Children have over
them too many amateur Popes—-gover-
nesses, schoolmasters, parents, nurserymaids
and uncles. The result, according to Shaw
the parent, is that the Englishman is merely
a badly brought-up child, a slave. “Until
the active hours of child life are organised
separately from the active hours of adult
life, so that adults "can- etiJoy-stfa&rSftqiety 0 f
children in reason without being tormented,
disturbed, harried, burdened and hindered
in their work by them as they would be
now if there were no compulsory schools and
no children hypnotised into the belief that
they must tamely go to them and be im-
prisoned, and be beaten and over-tasked in
them, we shall have schools under one pre-
text or another ; and we shall have all the evil
consequences, and all the social helplessness
that result from turning a nation of potential
freemen and freewomen into a nation of two-
legged spoilt spaniels, with everything crushed
out of their nature except dread of the whip.”
A criticism that may apply to England,
the English public school and the English
private family, but surely a little out-of-
date in this continent. A breath of fresh
Australian air would do Shaw good, too. By
the way, Shaw hasn’t any children. If he
had, would he very much mind being hin-
dered in his work by them?


A>
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SILVERWARE SATISFACTION
No. Cx34. —Dinner Cruet,
Kleetro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, with 4 Cut Glass Bottles, 2C/-
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS,
for a copy, post free on request; it places selections from the immense variety we offer
command of everyone in Australia.
Write
at the
No. 1049. —Entree Dishes,
oblong shape, Electro Silver-plate
on Nickel Silver, 10in., choice de-
sign
77/0 pair
No. Cx29.—Cut Glass But-
ter Dish and Knife, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver 8/6
No. 1047.—Entree Dishes,
Oval, Electro-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, 10 in 57/6 pair
Cdk...
No. Cx7.—Cut Glass Jam
or Honey Jar, mourned
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel
Silver, with 5p00n.... 19/-
FA»Q
s
Ei9
No. Cx9. Teapot, Electro Silver-plate on
Britannia Metal, embossed design.... 20/-
mm
£%W
So*
No. Cx23. — Biscuit Box, Electro Sil-
ver-plate on Britannia Metal, fern de-
sign 45/-
No. Cx27. — Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, 4
Crystal Glass Bottles ... .... 22/-
No. Cx3o.—Sugar & Cream Stand,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver —
No. Cxl2. —Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased design, 22/6
. CxlB. Inkstand, Electro Silver-plate
Metal, engraved design
Britannia
30/-
No. Cx32.—L unch
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with i Cut Glass
Bottles 21 /"
No. Cx2l. — lnkstand, Electro Silver-plate on Britannia
Metal, engraved Glass Flower Vase 52/6
No. ox2s.—Lunch
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Bottles 14/-
V^J
No. Cx22. — Cake Basket, Electro
plate on Nickel Silver, embossed design
Silver-
-30/-
No. Cxls. — Waiter, Electro
Nickel Silver, engraved design.
Silver Plate on
, length, 14in. —
32/0
No. 1029. — Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, Electro
Silver-plate, in Silk and Plush-lined Case 15/-
Various Other Designs from 8/- to 19/-
Postage must
be added to
the prices
quoted.
No. Cxll. — Flower Stand, Electro
plate on Nickel Silver, pretty design..
Silver-
-40/-
Price List of
Electroplate
post free on
request.
No. 1034. —Afternoon Tea or Cake Forks,
Eleetro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, half-dozen, in
Silk and Plush lined Case, with Ivory Handles 17/6
Without Case, half-dozen 12/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m&A
n
il
«8 rag
*
' x ~v-
- ■ V
Wl
20 GAUGE, MODEL 1912
Hammerless
Repeating Shotgun
If you have ever used a light gun in
hunting, you will at once appreciate the
advantages of the Model 1912 Hammer-
less Repeating Shotgun. This new
Winchester weighs only 5 2 /i pounds —
about the weight of a .22 caliber rifle —
yet it is the strongest repeating shotgun
on the market, because, unlike others, its
metal parts throughout are made of
Nickel Steel. This lightness and strength
are combined with great beauty of out-
line and perfection of balance and finish.
Its action is positive and works with an
ease and smoothness not found in
other guns. It can be taken apart
and put together quickly and easily,
and in strong and accurate shoot-
ing qualities is fully up to the
•» \
high Winchester standard.
Go to a dealer and ask him
to show you one of them.
Always use Winchester
ammunition in Win-
chester guns as they are
made for each other.
SIEMENS
Electric Fans.
We are
now
Booking
Indents
Write for
Special Prices
ym**-
for
Next
Season’s
Supply.
Write for
Special Prices
Siemens Table, Bracket and Ceiling Fans, for direct
or alternating current, are tlie most satisfactory on the
Australian Market.
They are silent running, of high efficiency, and low in
price. NOW is the time to make provision for the
approaching Summer Season. You can lose nothing bv
ordering now, and you might lose business later on if
you have not the stock when the demand sets in.
Write TO-DAY for our Illustrated Fan Catalogue 544.
It will Interest you—so "will'our Special Prices.
Don’t put it off. Write now.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
42 Bridge Street, Sydney.
LOOK AT
ME!
I am a living witness to the marvellous curative
properties of
VITADATIO
Eighteen years ago I was declared absolutely
incurable by three of the finest physicians in New
Zealand. I had suffered for fourteen years from
HYDATIDS
and had tried all the ordinary advertised
medicines, doctors, and herbalists, but without
any permanent benefit, and at last underwent.an
operation, but was then pronounced incurable.
I was advised to try VITADATIO, and as a
result of giving this now famous medicine a
consistent trial, was thoroughly cured. My cure
took place- seventeen years ago, and 1 am still in
PERFECT HEALTH
and have introduced this great medicine through-
out the world, and' marvellous cures have been
effected by Australia’s Great Remedy in all
countries.
f
In these enlightened times everyone knows tfciat disease attacks the system owing
to a poor quality of the Blood, and as VITADAYIO is a natural herbal blood maker
it has successfully cured :
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CrtEST TROUBLES
BLADDER TROUBLES
SKIN DISEASES
Write for full particulars and testimonials ; state how you suffer, and I will
you FREE ADVICE. ' VITADATIO is sold by Chemists and Stores.
S. A. PALMER. 439 FLINDERS LANE. MELBOURNE. VIC.
give
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at ’ extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar auid rebounding locks,' choke and modified steel - barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Oar Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Getting Out of Bed
on the Wrong Side !
Did your husband get out from the wrong side
of the bed this morning ? Was he irritable,
inclined to grumble at everything and act like a
bear ? Don’t always blame his temper. More often
than not a man’s irritable disposition is due to
trouble with his liver or digestion and better
than all the soothing and coaxing, is just one or two
01
lii
m
P
ANTIBILIOUS
L
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Get him to take two Cockle’s Pills to-night and no matter
how depressed, irritable or out-of-sorts he felt this morning,
he will be as “ fit as a fiddle ” to-morrow. Cockle’s Pills are an
invaluable corrective for all disorders of the liver or digestion ;
they are made according to the
prescription of a famous doctor
and are taken by doctors them-
selves.
df
d
The “Rocket”
was the first locomotive in the world to run for
public service. This was in the year 1830, ex-
actly 30 years after Dr. Cockle began prescribing
his valuable antibilious pill, which brought him
an enormous practice and world-wide fame.
COCKLE’S PILLS
Of Chemists throughout
the World . Puces in
England , x/i§ & 2/9 a box


All is Food in
ď
Food
When you prepare Bender’s
Food with fresh new milk, it
torms a dainty and delicious
cream. In this form, all the
nutritive elements in both the
niilk and the Food itself are
made soluble, ready for bodily
nutrition.
Consequently Benger’s is
assimilated with ease, even
m illness, when other food
causes pain
and distress.
Benger’s Booklet-A little
work of authority on the
special feeding of Children,
Invalids, and tne Aged, will
be sent post free on appl-
ication to
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.
MANCHESTER, Eng.
i.*, u.non ujfices —
New York (u.s.a.)
92. William Street.
Sydney (n.s.w.),
117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents —
National Drug and
Chemical Co. Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Street,
Montreal, and branches
throughout Canada.
Sender’s Food is sold
by Druggists, etc.,
s — everywhere.
\Vy \
§
178 A
Query: “How did you
first come to use Pebeco
Tooth Paste?”
Answer: “My whole
family, you mean. It’s this
way! Upon leaving the
dentist after a recent call,
he was insistent that I use
Pebeco Tooth Paste—said
it was the scientific prepara-
tion of a celebrated German
Chemist—that there really
was no dentifrice quite like
it because it hygienically
revitalized the entire oral
cavity and prevented ‘Acid-
Mouth —the cause of 95
per cent, of all tooth decay.
PCBCCO
TOOTH PASTE
“ I followed his instructions and found
the Dentist was right. Pebeco Tooth
Paste does purify and refresh the
mouth. Pebeco Tooth Paste does
stop ‘Acid-Mouth.'
Nrturally, wife and children triedit.
Life : it ? They too have * got * the
Pebeco habit.”
Send 3d Stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid- Mouth.’ ’ Of
all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD. 6 O'Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
I®
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
!?sSi
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence SX.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. CollinsSfc
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Ans. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Admits.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harrv J
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” " Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street, Sydney.
f
Unequalled as a Specific for COUGHS & COLDS,
INFLUENZA, BRONCHITIS, SORENESS and
TIGHTNESS of the CHEST, WHOOPING
COUGH, SORE or RELAXED THROAT.
*
*
I
I
301 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Messrs. Bonnington & Co.
Dear Sirs, —For over 20 years “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss” has been an unfailing
remedy in my household. For Coughs and
Colds and Chest Affections generally I con-
sider there is no better remedy than “Bonnington'
Irish Moss.” Yours truly, W. J. C. YATES.
DO/H/S I/Vf.TCWsI
df
Drunkenness cured
™mS n u Cln cur / the most violent drunkard— SECßETLY— at home. GOLDEN
hi ECIFIC has no odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person of either
sex. It totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting'antipathy to alcohol
in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days with this treatment Send 2d.
stamp for FREE SAMPLE and full particulars.
COLDEN SPECTFTC CO.. Dept. B. 2019, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
sfd
ď
THIN WOMEN !
Would You
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
vour deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomcd, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
anaemia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few- weeks under our wonderful
„ ...... . .... dr. fallieres flesh-food.
Flesh-Pood is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is a nerve and-tissue'food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF LETTERS DIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co., Cympie; Queehsland, May 5, 1013. "
Dear Sir,—As a nurse, I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I ifirst wrote to you I was only skin'and
bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feet certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as l am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrovti.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuatiun and development.
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp -to pay parit postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FAIiLIERIS FLESH-FOOD CO.. 1103 ASII STREET. SVT>XjEY.
knowledge: is power
Thirty years of assiduous study of The) Hair arid its Treatment, arid '4ll
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the mea|is
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new after all other preparations
have failed. j
Mr. Fred Pcakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another, wonderful case. His hairdresser tells inc
he had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, lie ! has
got a splendid growth of hair. > ' \
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writ&u “My head, which tvas nearly bald; has now
come back to its usual growth.” * 1 ( . ;
Mr. Sutherland states: “I had only a little down on--nwi head When I commenced to use ydhr
SPECIAL PARASKNB and COSMO LOTION; now I have a beautiful head of Aair.” t
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cctellio Lotion, one at,
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Slmmpuiia.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria,. 12/-; four months,- 22/6 Other
States, 12/6 and 23/6.
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion in the'
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shampuna.
Naturaline 's a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. It acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all cblors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Mejtfiuin Brown Hair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Bl:tck Hair. i|,
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other ‘ States' 6/8.
E. HOLLAND
Scalp and Hair Specialist, 6
195 Collins Street, , MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO KILLS!
0c
CP
i
a
(SS
7
Face to Face with Death 1
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely, harmless, leaves ,no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. 11. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “1 icas a hard smoker for 30
years, but since takino your sample of Tobacco
Specific 1 have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
<and oumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an AppJiance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
ISAL^ ,LL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent ;
Ain CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something' ENTIRELY NEW;
best RUWTJRE appliance
YETINVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps.' The pad is made of
soft .rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
°f Ce.n you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, CONTORT, and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAT'S USE. *
is suitable .for men. women & children.
lESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australian's are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High llol-
te ; W,C,,. where, they can see the
home papers, meet thteir friends, use the
char^e° ne ’ obtain information without
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Auckland.
A very queen, but statuesquely, cold,
She decks her chilling beauty with a smile,
And raimented in vivid greens and gold
Holds regal state, the better to beguile
Those lovers who, the prey to their own
dreams,
Mis-read the what she is by what she seems.
Child of the snows, an alien child is she
On this her Rangitoto-guarded throne;
IJnlike her wanton rival oversea
The diadem she wears is not her own,
Rut, safe in love-pretending Chastity,
'That yields not to temptations never known,
-die wields her sceptre over every heart
By passing off as Passion what is Art.
MAORI LAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
Fort Franklin.
I hear the bugle singing,
In Fort Franklin by the bay,
Where the tea-tree scrub is swinging,
In a sky of twilight grey.
T hear the bugle singing
A song of yesterday....
The men that knew that song
Years ago went far away;
Rut the winds that roll along
In the skies of shifting grey,
Hear an echo, faint and long,
Half a weary world away. ...
And wherever hearts are yearning
r , * lor the things of yesterday,
there the sunset winds, returning
To the sea, at dusk of day
(Though ’tis half the world away).
Broken melodies are bringing,
Sweet, and shrill, and faintly ringing,
h rom the sunset bugle, singing
In Fort Franklin by the bay.
VICTORIA.
PATRLCIA MURCHISON.
The King Addresses Some Electors!
Mr. King O’Malley interspersed through his ad-
dress a series of humorous stories, and persuaded a
section of the crowd to sing “Onward, Christian
soldiers. lie was frequently interrupted, but, if
he failed to make any political impression, he suc-
ceeded in making the crowd enjoy itself.
—Election item.
The news that O’Malley would speak at the
rally went all through the Valley and
over the range;
It caused perturbation in farmhouse and
station, and great jubilation to all fond
ot change;
And this was the reason—the mid-winter
season is dull and unpleasin’ to most
country-folk
Who’ve mighty few chances of concerts and
dances ; a meeting enhances their chance
tor a joke!
’Twas announced in the Banner, by Editor
Tanner, in competent manner O’Malley
would speak ;
Tanner called him “a lion,” “the Labor
Orion, ’Democracy’s scion,” and “hope
of the meek” ;
And he made an allusion to Cook and the
husion, as deep in collusion to stifte
tree speech,
But the voice of O’Malley “would storm up
the valley” in “bright quip and sally”
and ‘stand in the breach !”
A brotherly greeting preceded the meeting—
the audience beating all records bv
scores—
-Ihe faimers arriving, some riding, some driv-
ing, while storekeepers thriving for once
left their stores ;
The Town Band was playing, the people
aQ d all the girls saying
O Malley looked “sweet” ;
And the chairman was Logan, supported by
Grogan, and Mrs. Pat Hogan and all
the elite.
A ells, catcalls and laughter shook rooftree
and rafter,, with cheers coming after,
when O’Malley arose.
He gained an ovation, before his oration, by
mock agitation and blowing his nose!
A ludicrous story about an old Tory, who’d
“long gone to Glory—or some Other
Place!”
Caused general cackles; while mention of
“shackles” for “roosters with hackles”
brought grins to each face.
The way he cried “Brothers!” set children
and mothers and dozens of others in
blurts, spurts and spits!
And the happy word “Rooster” sent old
Jimmy Fewster and Alderman Wooster
well-nigh into fits!
His unctuous “Sisters!” made half the girls
twisters on seats that spelt blisters if
sat on too long;
But the gem of our rally at Chinaman’s
Valley was when The O’Malley burst
into a song!
T'p got the whole meeting, with vigor repeat-
ing, in time to the beating of O’Malley’s
arm,
Ihe song that he sung us—’twas well-known
among us—to frenzy it stung us; it
worked like a charm !
It came as a slogan to Mrs. Pat Hogan, and
Logan, and Grogan; it caused them to
spring
From their chairs at the rally at Chinaman’s
\ alley, for the song of O’Malley was
“God Save the King!”
You mightn’t believe it. but Time cannot
reive it, nor Fancy unweave it —the
thought of that night;
The quaint Figure speaking—thp laughter
and shrieking—the country-girls squeak-
ing their childish delight!
The Liberals there, too—for some I could
swear to—were cracking the air, too,
with rounds of applause ;
Ah, Time’s never dragging when O’Malley’s
bragging, and gagging, and wagging ids
jaws in the Cause!
n.s.w.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.


f
If you are a judge of
Cigarette Quality, you
should try
aron
CIGARETTES.
You'll agree they are exceptionally good smokes*
In Turkish or Virginia* All leading Tobacconists*
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
Are You Blocking Profits from Coming
Your Way, Mr. Country Storekeeper,
By having your shop dimly and badly lighted? You
can flood your shop with Electricity—the best-known
"display light—for a moderate sum. You can generate
your own Electricity with
A “ Lister-Bruston ” Automatic
Electric Lighting Plant
This plant (as illustrated complete)
generates Electricity automatically.
The Engine and Dynamo start them-
selves as soon as the lights are
switched on. No costly Storage Bat-
tery is needed—the lights are lit direct
from the Dynamo.
Low in cost and delivered practically
ready for connecting up to Shop Wir-
ing. May we talk it over with you in person or by post?
AGENTS : N.S.W.—W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
sd
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMEINT.
In use since 1596.
CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLIHG EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN* 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Insist on ** Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
f
■» X
' \
■**l
id
m
v
ml
r
The Best-
its
manufacture
makes it so.
Because it is made under the most'exacting- hygienic methods, because it
is made from the finest Cheddar cheeses selected from the best factory in
Darling Downs, and because it is a pure, full flavored, full cream cheese
are a few reasons why you should, use
“Rex”
Luncheon Cheese
Other reasons and exclusive features that will appeal to you are its
delicious and appetising flavor, its mild taste, its digestive properties and
its economic principles. Being of the right consistency you can use it for
sandwiches without butter. Try it as a finish after a meal, it’s splendid.
(Sold lay all Grocers in Decorated Tins
and Porcelain Screw-top Jars.
(These jars are handy and useful.)
OTHER “REX” PRODUCTS
Procurable at all Grocers.
“Rex” Canned Delicacies.
Ham Pate, 31b. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, 31b. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, l|lb. tins,
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, lib. tins,
Bunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Bex” Luncheon Cheese, soz. decorated tins
and porcelain jars,
and
“Bex” Brand Bard, for cooking purposes, in
lib. prints,
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacons.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products.
PPO
L^OOt/c
i
2 -s
• 5?
EQUIP
YOUR
CAR
V.
WITH
\\
PERDRIAU
Special Heavy
Three=Ribbed
\
Australian-Made
Tyres.
More Miles and Greater Riding Comfort.
We also Manufacture Plain Round Head Tyres.
Price Lists and all Particulars on Application.
RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
mi;.
S
ss
3?
ii..;
■
HI
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
THE LONE HANP
New Shape and Style. PRICE 6d.
•'?
<1 §
ik.
wm
am
Wfm
- K
m
6-40 Hudson—one of the
Best Cars in Australia
At the Remarkably Low Price of £535.
Its handsome symmetrical streamline body, lux-
urious appointments and superior finish, at once
proclaim it a leader.
Among the special features are : —English stream-
line body, with receding bonnet and dash, domed
mud-wings and wire wheels. Painted in grey
throughout. Eledtric self-starter and lighting.
Two folding seats, and accommodation for 7 persons.
One man hood and cover. Luggage grills.
Particulars and trials by application to us.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.,
Motor Garage:
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—M0. 1797.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 1914.
Prick 9d.
GOD SAVE THE KING —(From his Loyal Subjects).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia tor the Whi.'e Man.”
Printed u.:d published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, M- iman, for The
Bulletin .Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Geo - je Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERL S! TO
(1.- Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bull! tin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper (.re copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
i mn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
id Political. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
'j lies or S' Aches (those dealing With Australian sub-
jt -Is, anw not exceeding two •■ji.umns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. .Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.- —-The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. \V. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.— W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Bates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a Neivs-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
Ilowe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Sioz.
to lOoz., 21 d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 1914.
CONCERNING TWO MEN AND A BOY
AND A TARIFF.
The saddest story told to the Australian
inter-State Commission up to date was that
recently narrated by the boss of an engineer-
ing firm at Balmain (Sydney). He alleged
that his concern had installed a machine
which, so far as a certain branch of industry
was concerned, enabled one youth to do the
work which had formerly employed two men.
Whereupon—this he declared on his solemn
oath and covenant—the union demanded that
two men should be hired to look after the
implement, which really required only the
supervision of one youth, in order that em-
ployment might not be diminished and citi-
zens thrown out of work. It was asseverated
• —this was how the statement ran—that the
union said the new machine should be wholly
“for the benefit of the men”-—not in any
:sense for the benefit of the inventor or the
manufacturer. And —which was the worst
jpoint of all —it wasn’t to be in any sense
for the benefit of the country at large or for
the good and future happiness of the baby.
Australia (and especially the State of New
South Wales) imports most of its iron goods
because the present generation doesn’t work
hard enough or with sufficient intelligence
to supply its own requirements. It imports
from wherever the goods are cheapest, re-
gardless of whether they are nigger goods
or non-union goods or any other old variety
of goods. Being unable, at the present rate
of toil, to provide the money to pay for all
these nigger and non-union and cheap-labor
and miscellaneous goods, the country borrows
great sums abroad, and leaves the infant to
pay the bill. In fact, it sells its child into
financial slavery to the bloated capitalist in
order that the generation that is now alive
and drinking may show its manly inde-
pendence, and stick out its mortgaged chest,
and go to the football match with its three-
penny cigar in the middle of the lower part
of its face, and have its occasional strike,
and wave its Eight-hours banner, and de-
mand incidentally that the eight hours be
reduced to six. *
If somebody produces a tool which will
enable a youth to do the work of two men
the inventor and the manufacturer should
certainly receive some small share of the
profit in order that they may. be encouraged
to keen on devising and employing such things.
And the bnlarce of the profit shouldn’t go to
“the men.” It should go to that poor little
unconsidered item, the offspring—the child
of Gibeon whom his casual, borrowing
father leaves to hump the account for the old
man’s incapacity, and his dilatoriness, and
his shirkings. When anything happens along
which will enable half a man to do the work
of two the community is faced with a couple
of possibilities. One is that it may keep two
men hanging needlessly around the device lest
they should lose their jobs, and at the same
tune that it may continue importing low-
priced goods, and borrowing money from
foreign capitalists to pay for them, and allow
the baby to carry the burden in later years,
ihe other possibility is to push up the tariff,
and shut out so much cheap-labor and nigger
and “scab” goods that there will be work for
all the men. Incidentally, the foreign borrow-
ings, which now go to pay for these imported
cheap-labor and nigger and “scab” goods,
should be reduced in a corresponding degree.
Even if things became so prosperous that the
public debt was paid off that wouldn’t hurt
anybody. Then the son and heir, when he
grew up, might feel less inclined to cut off
his father’s old-age pension on the ground
that the parent was a hulking disgrace to
the family.
Every time that an invention enables one
man to do the work which used to occupy
several, wages can be pushed upward—pro-
vided . the invention is used to its fullest
capacity. Unfortunately the first principle
of Australian Laborites is to sink the fiscal
issue. In other words, the first preference
has to be given to the rich Tory importer,
and to his. stock of sweated goods. So, if the
use of an invention to its fullest capacity will
do him injury, the invention has to suffer.
Rather than interfere in any rash or sudden
fashion with the rich Tory importer and his
amazing stock. of shoddy, and rather than
slacken off in the process of pawn-
ing posterity to the foreign capitalist in
order to pay for the rich importer’s shoddy,
there are Australian Laborites who wouid
gladly see three men hanging round the job
which can only give legitimate employment
to one. This isn’t actually vice or laziness.
It is the obsession of Freetrade. Also it is
the dementia of Cobden. The habit of con-
sidering the affluent Tory importer first and
foremost has eaten into the bones of a large
section of the Labor party. (The fact that
it has eaten into the bones of a large section
of the Tory party is hardly worth mention-
ing, for the crowd which has still an inward
hankering for cheap niggers desires, quite
naturally and logically, cheap nigger pro-
ducts.) According to the unfortunate doc-
trine of Australia’s so-called Democracy, the
foreign loan which enslaves our young sons
and daughters to the Fat Man abroad may
be floated once a month or oftener. The
strike which paralyses Australian industry
may happen once a week or oftener. The
demand for a rise in the wages, which are
already so high, comparatively speaking, as
to put the Australian manufacturer at a
grievous disadvantage as compared with
many of his foreign competitors, may hap-
pen once a day or oftener. But when it
is proposed that the non-productive and
always anti-Labor importer, who brings
hither the cheapest goods he can get, per
medium of the cheapest ships he can find,
and sells them by the agency of about the
worst-paid class in the community—when
it is proposed that this Tory god should
be interfered with in order to prevent him
having too great a start over the Australian
worker and the Australian employer, a
highly-paid inter-State Commission sits and
takes evidence from Chaos until the Twi-
light of the Gods. Even when it tackles
the simple matter of brass tacks it begins
with Abraham and ends about the time of
the fall of the British Empire. And when
all is over Federal politicians of both sides
say that they will consider the “rectification
of tariff anomalies” when they begin to feel
rested.
* * * *
So by long and devious ways the writer
gets back to the fact that somebody built a
machine whereby, in a certain industry, one
youth could do the work of two men.
Thereby 75 per cent, of the labor in
that particular branch ceased to be
required under present conditions. And
nobody demanded that the tariff should
be sky-rocketed on the instant, and
sufficient cheap imports shut out, and suffi-
cient foreign loans dispensed with, to restore
the industrial balance, so that everybody
concerned might still have full employment.
Instead it was pronounded that the in-
efficient tariff should remain, and the im-
ports should continue, and the foreign loans
should go on as usual, but that two whole
men should hang round the bit of
mechanism, doing the work which only re-
quired half a man. For the Tory importer
is like unto the Ark of Jehovah to the
Laborite who sinks the fiscal issue, iust as
he is to the Tory who yearns to fill Aus-
tralia with cheap nigger colonists. And
anybody who throws mud at the importer’s
proud belltopper, except after years of deep
consideration, is regarded as a person who
rushes into the breach when the time is not
yet ripe. The fiscal-sinking Laborite is as
solid as anybody else on the theory that the
time is not yet ripe.
THE DEATH PENALTY.
“10-2-4” — -his sentiments ;
Two things which bear a sort of relation to one
another are happening simultaneously in N. S. Wales
-—the dismantling of Darlinghurst Gaol (Svdney) and
the abolition of capital punishment. The vanish-
ment of Darlinghurst and the erection on its site of
a school is pleasing in its way. It is symbolistic of
the steady decrease in crime which has followed upon
the spread of education. But nothing is ever entirely
satisfactory in this exasperating world. In propor-
tion as crime has decreased, mental and neuropathic
troubles have increased, throughout the Common-
wealth of late years. If it is a fair thing to acclaim
education for lessening crime it appears to be equally
iust to blame it for enhancing insanity. When people
were hanged for the most trivial offences crime
flourished on all sides. Now that , no one is ever
hanged in N. S. Wales murder is a rarity. StIU it is
committed, from time to time, and there has been at
least one clear case where it was done because the
murderer krew that he was in no danger of being
hanged. On the other hand, scores of murders
have undoubtedly been committed because of the
existence of the death penalty. In those cases where
a criminal is guilty of one capital offence—rape, for
example—he often decides that, as the position can’t
possiblv be worse in the event of his being caught,
he will give himself every chance to escape by
silencing his victim for ever. And so there is murder
as well as outrage. The question presents itself:
Should the death penalty go entirely? To the young
and enthusiastic all such problems are easy. We
said in our haste, in the bright, optimistic days when
we owned a full head of hair: Educate the masses,
and you must make them happy and do away with
crime; abolish capital punishment, and you will
wipe out a brutalising anachronism, and lessen the
likelihood of murder almost to vanishing point. The
masses are educated, and more of them go mad than
in the past. The people are given to understand
that capital punishment is suspended, and they con-
tinue to murder each other. What a problem it
affords for the earnest social reformer!
* * * *
The position appears to be that just as a State
can over-educate, so it can under-execute. There
are two sorts of murder that no legal penalty will
ever prevent. They are, of course, the murder done
in the heat of passion, and the one which is perpe-
trated by an egomaniac who believes that he can
safely pit his cunning against the collective intelli-
gence of the community. Consequences are never
regarded by the committers of such crimes for obvi-
ous reasons. Then there are what one may call the
fancy assassinations—where one lover (a non-
criminal in normal circumstances) kills another and
tries to commit suicide in order that the two shall
not be parted in life; or where a mother gets
puerperal fever and kills her child ; or where a
psychopathic subject, such as the boy Quinlan, who
murdered a woman in a Sydney hotel some years
ago, acts according to his or her aberration. How
absurd to argue that a flat rate, in the punishment
line, can be devised for all these offenders ! Capital
punishment, in its present form, is bound to go. It
does more harm, in a modern community, as a
brutalising influence than it djoes good as a crime-
deterrent. But, then, the form of capital punishment
which is inflicted in Australia -is about the most
hideous and revolting on record. It is as horrible
as the guillotine, and not so merciful. The first
essential is to find some means of making the death-
penalty less horrifying and less degrading, just as if
one had to kill a mad or savage dog one would wish
to get rid of it with the least torture possible. Hav-
lng’ decided on the easiest and most humane way to
dispose of undesirables, it would be necessary to
settle the question of who was to be executed. The
line that has been followed in the past is manifestly
idiotic. Under it elderly people have mostly been
done away with, while the young have usually been
spared for no better reason than that they were
young. The boy Quinlan, above-mentioned, affords
an example of misplaced leniency if ever there was
one. He slew an inoffensive woman for the mere
sake of killing. Zola describes, in “La BSte
Humaine,’ what ails Quinlan, with the accuracy born
of careful study. The central figure of Zola’s novel
feels, at intervals, that he has to murder some
woman. The more the woman attracts him the
fiercer is his desire to plunge a knife into her throat
or heart. He resists for years, and finally kills his
wife. The condition is familiar to every specialist
I? " er Y? u ? diseases. It is the logical outcome of
the Sadistic impulses which exist in many who never
become assassins; and was probably responsible for
the Ripper murders, the more recent cattle-maiming
cases, in which Conan Doyle interested himself, and
scores of other mysterious crimes. Quinlan will
leave gaol with the identical tendencies that he had
when he went there. And he will be a man instead
of a boy, and proportionately more dangerous. His
case is only one of many. If Society had any regard
(?. r A® own safety it would either keep unfortunates
like Quinlan and Phillips locked up for ever, or
put them mercifully out of the way
* # * *
It is necessary to stress the word “mercifully,”
since capital punishment, in the past, has been too
much like revenge. Death is enough of a deterrent,
without adding to it degradation and possible tor-
ture. What is needed, in the few cases where it is
decided to carry out the death penalty, is a sort of
euthanasia. Things should be made as pleasant as
possible for the condemned. Perhaps the best scheme
would be to have him chloroformed. A doctor would
doubtless refuse to undertake this somewhat un-
pleasant job, but it would be easy to have a warder,
or someone of that stamp, instructed in the chloro-
forming art. The present system of giving a man
three weeks to anticipate death—which is to say
three weeks of agony—might be abolished. He
should not know, to a month or so, when his long
sleep was coming. There would be none of the
archaically horrible paraphernalia of the gallows,
and the waiting coffin, and the prayers for the dead
being recited over a living body. Death would
arrive quietly, by night, in the guise, perhaps, of a
vague dream. This arrangement would be much less
dreadful for the criminal, and it would be far
healthier for the rest of the community. And of
course it would be carried out only in exceptional
cases. The chief question which the Executive ought
to ask itself, in deciding such a matter, is: Do we
consider the offender to be incorrigible? A mur-
derer of the Deeming stamp is plainly incorrigible.
He is better out of the way. Some criminals, who
have been actually convicted of only one murder are
incorrigible on their police records—-for example,
Digby Granb and Jones, who were executed in Syd-
ney a dozen years ago. Quinlan is incorrigible in
the way that all psychopaths are. Phillips is in-
corrigible in the same sense that a mad dog is. But
it is absurd to put in the same class with them for
perilousness such folks as the unhappy young man
who slew his sweetheart on the banks of the Lane
Cove River the other day, or the sort of mother
who is constantly being arraigned for killing her
newly-born infant. The one type would never harm
anyone again if they were released; the others take
life as naturally as they breathe. After years of
furious hostility to the idea of the death penalty it
seems to me that it ought, after all, to remain in
the offing—however far away. But it should be im-
posed for nothing but murder, and then only for the
sort of murder which is likely to be committed again
if the perpetrator is left alive. Above all, it should
be shorn, as much as possible, of its old-time horror.
An untimely ending, in a place corresponding to the
lethal chamber of a Dogs’ Home, is surely a bad
enough death for the worst of human beings.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
♦
The Trust that Was Out of Luck.
According to a cable of last week some
shareholders in the New York, New Haven
and Hartford Railway Co. are sueing Wil-
liam Rockefeller (son of J. D.), J. P.
Morgan (son of the multi-millionaire finan-
cier who died last year), and others, for
£25,000,000. The action is the outcome of
a report by the U.S. Interstate Commission
which laid it down that Rockefeller, Mor-
gan and the rest had been guilty of criminal
negligence, bribery and corruption on a
stupendous scale, and other things in con-
nection with the affairs of the abovenamed
co. The most characteristic and signifi-
cant and generally interesting feature of the
business is the way in which the only evi-
dence that mattered was obtained by the
Commission. It was made available owing
to the fatal freshness of young Mr. Morgan.
He failed to recognise the necessity, in a
quasi-criminal enterprise, of placating the
man with dangerous inside information.
One of his first actions, after the death of
his father, was to sack from the Presidency
of the N.Y., N.H., and H. Railway, one
Mellen, with whom he had been on bad
terms for years. Early in last year the
authorities decided to criminally indict the
late J. Pierpont Morgan, under the Sher-
man Anti-Trust Law, for his action in pre-
venting the Grand Trunk Railway from
securing a terminus at Boston, thereby en-
suring a monopoly of the New England
traffic for the railway co. with the preposter-
ous name above-mentioned. Mellen was
a faithful servant of Morgan, and Morgan
was old and ill. There is no particular
hardship in being indicted under the U.S.
Anti-Trust law. It has happened to most
of the trust-magnates, from J. D. Rocke-
feller downwards. Still, it is a tiresome
experience. Mellen feared that if Mor-
gan was called upon to face the ordeal, his
health might be injured. He accordingly
conferred with Morgan’s legal advisers and
arranged to assume responsibility for a
crime of which he was innocent. He was
duly indicted in Morgan’s stead. It is
probable that Morgan, jun., knew nothing of
this self-sacrificing act when he discharged
Mellen. His error was the Law’s gain.
Mellen’s sense of justice was outraged. He
turned what we call here King’s Evidence.
By disclosing the whole of the inner history
of an attempt to form one of the biggest
monopolies that the world has known, he
gained immunity from further proceedings
against himself, and rendered his enemy and
the latter’s friends liable to a criminal prose-
cution. They will no doubt be charged.
Also it is absolutely certain, going on past
form, that nothing of an unpleasant nature
will happen to them. It appears to be as
hard to convict a trust magnate of being a
criminal in the U.S. as it is to convict an
injurious trust of being what it is in Aus-
tralia. The lesson which the Commonwealth
is enabled to _ draw from the above case is
one which this paper has tirelessly endea-
vored to hammer home ; namely, that no well-
run trust allows anything of importance to
be discovered about itself, by any Commis-
sion or other institution of the sort, unless
it is overtaken by an almost unthinkable
stroke of bad luck. To quote the Sydney
Telegraph (13/7/T4) :
Mainly by the aid of Mr. Mellen, ex-president of
the line, whom the elder John Pierpont Morgan
appointed and the younger one discharged, the Com-
mission “got the lid off” the directorate and let the
light of publicity in.
A Commission is at work in Australia, at
the present time, trying to find out if the
Deef Trust is in the Commonwealth. The
Commission has also been instructed to dis-
cover whether, assuming the co. which has
established itself in Queensland is a branch
of the Beef Trust, its intentions are nefari-
ous. If it has the exceptional good fortune
to unearth another Mellen and thus “get
the lid off the directorate and let the light
of publicity in.” it will probably find out
many disquieting details which are at pre-
sent hidden from view. In that case the
Cook Government has promised to take steps
to deal with the Beef Trust. In the more
likely event of no Mellen transpiring, the
Commission will not make any discoveries
of value, and the Government will be in a
position to do nothing, as heretofore.
Some European Politics of a Mixed
Order.
Dear Bulletin,— The cable has been dis-
coursing upon an alleged breakdown or
smash-up in the French defence system. It
is simply another version of an old story
which has been repeated at intervals ever
since there have been armies. The Re-
porter—or, as I should call him, the Chair-
man of the Army. Committee of the Senate—
has done a general grumble. He told the
Chamber that the General Staff is “grossly
inefficient,” which may or may not be a fact.
It is so long since the French General Staff
or the German one either, has had a chance
to show its efficiency or lack thereof, that a
great deal is mere speculation. Some of the
wildest astonishments of the last 114 years
were the sudden discovery, at the time of
Jena, that the Prussian army system wasn’t
worth a row of pins; the unlooked-for bril-
liance of the scrap which Russia put up
against Napoleon ; the collapse of France
in 1870; the vigor and capacity which Greece
showed in the recent annoyance with
Turkey; and the publication of a book in
which a German writer solemnly suggested
that the old dry-rot had fallen again upon
the army of the Fatherland —that it had
become an immense affair of pomp and
routine and drill and deadness and gaiters
and pipeclay, just as it was when Fred-
erick the Great died, and small men took
over the big man’s job. An armj seems to
be a more thrilling gamble than two-up.
There are also specific charges made against
the French army. It is alleged that the
ammunition is scarce and bad; that the
artillery is inferior; and that the barracks
Outside Agencies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To preserve the principle of Responsible Govern-
m,ent by eliminating the interference with Parliament
oi outside agencies.
\in. plank from Prime Minister Cook’s policy.
liie purity of Parliament—its independence,
too,
Are matters which appeal to us—as public
matters do;
We do not like to think at all
„ T That Drapery, or Drink, at all
Would ‘ influence” our Parliament—
Demoralise our Parliament—
Upset our noble Parliament, and pots of
trouble brew.
A pocket-full of bank-notes—perchance a
flimsy cheque—
Would seriously disarrange our Parliament,
and wreck
The legislative name of it:
Consider all the shame of it
If someone got our Parliament—
Our Caesar’s wife-like Parliament—
Our model, moral Parliament to aid a
mighty “spec.” !
A Tariff offers chances, now—which nobody
would take,
For nobody in Parliament is ever “on the
make,”
So who accuses nobody
In that safe, sure, if slow body?
We all revere as Parliament—
Our patriotic Parliament?
What lying tongue in Parliament our confi-
dence can shake?
Then, in that other Parliament—the lesser
in degree,
But, oh! so highly .virtuous—no letter
House could be!
What “influence” could capture it?
What gift of gold enrapture it?
Unthinlcalle of Parliament!
Or anyone in Parliament! !
The Lord be thanked that Parliament de-
spises £s. d.! ! !
(Stately Tango-minuet danced ly all the
• Mtfmlers.)
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


are so much overcrowded —the soldier’s term
of service having been expanded from two
years to three without any provision being
-made for the fact that the number of men
in barracks is thereby much increased —that
epidemics are breaking out. In a general
way it was attested that there is a worm at
the root of Jonah’s gourd, and a white ant
in the furniture, and a large octopus look-
ing over the side of the ship, and a tile
loose on the roof, and a busted drain in the
basement, and the dog has got at the meat,
and the house is built upon shifting sand.
Also it was hinted that the ship is no longer
seaworthy, and that the blowfly is abroad, to
say nothing of the fact that the tree is hol-
low'. And, hearing these things, France
looked downward at the enormous bill
for Defence, and it looked eastward
at its much bigger and more numer-
ous neighbor, and it considered its
boundless public debt, and it asked itself
what ought to be done next. One thing
that France might do in the circumstances
is to throw its republic to the four winds,
and ask Albert of Belgium to become king
at Paris. Albert, bursting with vanity,
would probably become king, and as he has
no more authority than a French President
liis- accession w’ould make no real difference.
Then, if the business was efficiently stage-
managed, France and Belgium would become
automatically united by reason of the incon-
siderable Albert. The little country would
add 7,500,000 people to the general and
joint population. There would be one
army to support instead of two, and a lot
more people to pay for it. The little
country would probably feel flattered because
it had annexed the big one, just as Scotland,
which refused, during 300 years of bitter
war, to be annexed by England, felt good
right down to the base of the stomach it put
its porridge into, when it seized England
and sent a Scottish king to reign very badly
in London. In a case like that the big
country need not mind, because it is never
really annexed. It always arrives in the
end. And when the new order of things had
settled down, and Albert of Belgium had
begun to get his sea-legs in Paris, and regard
himself as another Henry IV., the great new
Franco-Belgian kingdom could send a “col-
lect” telegram to Berlin, and ask William
of Germany what he thought of the new
arrangement. Also, it could ask him to send
back the lost provinces of Alsace and Lor-
raine at once by parcel post.—Yours truly,
The Old Soldier.
The Mercenary Who Is Ashamed of It.
This naif political item figured in Sydney
Telegraph (11/7/T4) :
At a N. S. Wales Orange celebration the ltevs.
J. J. Willings and S. Gilby announced that uie
Orange organisation would support Liberalism at the
forthcoming election on account of the attitude of
the Labor party towards Home Rule.
This intimation that those who exploit the
Orange foolishness in N.S.W. propose to
barrack for Cook on the Home Rule ticket,
might carry a fragment of weight (say, about
i-oz.) had the same absurd crowd not in-
variably supported ultra-Toryism in the past,
on some other issue, or on none at all. When
the local Nationalist pa_rty was fighting the
battle of Protection, Orangeism ranged itself
on the side of the big importers—the men
who were taking work from local Protestants,
in a manner of speaking, and giving it to
the sweated toilers of Roman Catholic coun-
tries like Italy, Belgium and Austria. When
George Reid launched his bogus Anti-
Socialistic campaign Orangeism immediately
got behind him, and howled frenzied denun-
ciation of “the Anarchists.” The half-edu-
cated parsons who live by the disreputable
Orange movement knew nothing of the merits
or otherwise of the Anti-Socialist case. All
that penetrated beneath their small, flat hats
was that “Socialism” was the creed of the
indigent and the other thing the cause of
the people with donations to put in their
plates. _ When the defence movement began
Orangeism duly opposed it, in the name of
Protestantism. A popular contention in the
tin tabernacles of the elect was that Car-
dinal Moran desired to have the Australian
navy built in order that the battleships’ cap-
tains might be induced to blow the island
stronghold of the Protestant faith to blazes,
and hand over the fragments to Rome. It
is impossible to believe that this fantastic
rot was credited by the people who exploited
it. They dealt in it because the Dreadnought
movement and the Anti-Defence struggle
generally were supported at the time by the
right financial people. When Cook accepted
the Australian navy and claimed what he
used invidiously to term “Conscription” as
his . own, Orangeism abruptly ceased to be
anti-Defence. This indicated that Defence
had become popular with the affluent classes.
Orangeism is still on the side of the rich,
still opposed to effective anti-Trust legisla-
tion and to the principle of preference to
mostly Protestant unionists—ffor the alleged
reason that certain Labor senators and State
Laborites _ have expressed academic approval
of a political cause which is being sponsored
by a Government that does not contain a
■single Roman Catholic : which is supported
bv millions of British Protestants; which is
opposed by practically every English, Scotch
and Welsh Catholic; and whose venue is
12,000 miles from these shores. What intel-
ligence-insulting nonsense it all is ! The fact
is that Orangeism in N. S. Wales is the sly
prostitute of Toryism. It seeks to earn the
wages of sin and escape all the discredit of
such conduct. Its aim is to be kept by per-
sons of means and yet pose before the rest
of the world as an honest, democratic woman.
The feat cannot be done: —it would be an im-
possibility even if the exact nature of the
shameless old female’s trade hadn’t been a
matter of notoriety in N. S. Wales for
quarter of a century or more.
• ——
The Wild-Cat of Joseph Cook.
The present Australian Government is in a
painful situation. It is after the votes of
the State Rights crowd; in fact if it fails
to get them it is doomed. At the same time
the. public is crying out, more and more
furiously, for legislation which cannot pos-
sibly be achieved without introducing the
white ant into the very keystone of the State
Rights Arch. Liberalism is facing the dil-
emma in a manner which is both nervy and
ingenious. Prime -Minister Cook, in his
polic.vspeech at Parramatta, last .week, soothed
the State Righters with assurances that
jiothing wbuld be done to the Constitution by
Liberalism which would clash with their
ideals; and he enthused the democratic ele-
ment by promising effective anti-Trust legis-
lation, and a Companies Act, and a National
Insurance Act and other necessary measures.
The audience appeared to swallow the un-
convincing story, more or less; anyhow it
cheered loudly, as is the fatuous way of
political gatherings. But those members of
it who possessed the average amount of rea-
soning power must have spotted the contradic-
tion in terms. Cook promised, on this occa-
sion, more than it is in the power of any
human being to supply. He pledged his word,
figuratively speaking, that his constituency
should have perfect summer weather
and skating on the Parramatta River at one
and the same time; that all Australia should
enjoy, simultaneously, the sea air of the
coast and the dry atmosphere of the interior;
that drains and diphtheria should be ban-
ished together, and so on. In brief, he
attempted to pull the Commonwealth’s leg.
The position is sufficiently simple for a child
to comprehend. Under the present Consti-
tution the Australian Parliament has no
control over the internal trade and com-
merce of any one State. That circumstance
has served to invalidate practically the whole
of the industrial legislation attempted by the
Federal Houses in the last 10 years. The
first Fisher Government weighed the needs
of Australia against the “dignity” of the
States, and decided that the constitutional
obstacles to reform must go. Liberalism
ranged itself beside the State Righters,
argued that interference with the Constitu-
tion amounted to folly, and managed to twice
secure the defeat of the Referenda proposals.
The fiercest howl of the anti-Referenda ora-
tors was directed at the idea of interfering
with the States’ rights to control their own
trade and commerce. And now Joseph
Cook happens blandly along and announces
that he is going to interfere with the trade
and commerce of the States without, so to
speak, interfering with anything. He in-
tends to provide effective anti-Trust legisla-
tion, without removing from, say, Queensland
its right to harbor a big U.S. Trust, and
derive financial benefits therefrom at the ex-
pense of the rest of the Commonwealth. He
is going to a system of contribu-
tory insurance, along German or English
lines (a system, namely, whose essence is
that the national Government shall force
employers and employees to pay weekly in-
stalments into an insurance fund), and yet
leave to business men and their ser-
vants in the individual States their
existing right to tell the Australian
Parliament to whistle for its insurance
contributions, and not officiously interfere
in a matter which concerns the State Houses
alone. Also he proposes to pass a Companies
Act to regulate the operations of Aus-
tralian companies, most of which, since their
activities are confined to one State, will be
in a position legally to flout that Act in the
event of the Trade and Commerce clause of
the Constitution remaining unamended—and,
as aforesaid, Cook does not intend to alien-
ate the State Rights’ element by touching
the above-mentioned clause. The constitu-
tional lawyers of the Cook party—the
Irvines and the Glynns— well know that
if the Australians who constitute the Com-
monwealth are to have the benefit of Insur-
ance and Company legislation, effective anti-
Trust laws and the rest, then the same Aus-
tralians, who constitute the States, will have
to be prepared to sacrifice many of
their “rights” as provincialists. These men
would not imperil their professional reputa-
tions by saying anything different, which is
why we find P. McMahon Glynn making
no definite pronouncements on the amend-
ment question, and Irvine contending that
Anti-Trust legislation, etc., is “probably not
needed.” It is left to the ridiculous Cook
to assist the cause of Liberalism by a scheme
which is about as feasible and as seriously
meant as a plan to distil paving-stones from
beer.
Political Saveloys.
The Ma State’s Assembly continues to stir
in unsavory rumors. Since Premier Holman
hinted-—or declared with needless emphasis
that he wouldn’t dream of hinting—that
Richard Meagher, the Speaker, might have
profited over the Tote Commission and
the picture-show business he has been im-
plored to utter all he has learned by alleged
detective inquiries and other ways and
means, provided he has learned anything.
Holman’s reply is that lie didn’t make any
“charges,” but merely gave “illustrations”
of the possible. Meagher appears satisfied
to let it go at that. The other night Levy,
while scoffing at this explanation of Hol-
man’s, himself set up in the mystery busi-
ness. Recalling the passage through the
Assembly, about nine years ago, of the
Liquor Bill and Holman’s determined fight
against it, he said: —
I do not know what was at the bottom of it. I
am willing to admit he did it with the most honor-
able motives.
Mr. Lang : Why does not the hon. member say
straight out that he was corrupt?
Mr. Levy : I am giving an illustration.
He then wanted information as to what
Holman’s attitude would be if, having
quarrelled with another member of the party,
that other member had got this off his chest
to the press:—
It might be possible, for example, for one of the
members of the Labor party—especially a certain
influential and eloquent member of the Labor party
-—to rise in his place in H- e House and oppose every
clause of the Liquor Bill whose object was to control
an admittedly dangerous traffic, and it might tran-
spire afterwards that this eloquent and influential
member had been paid a large sum of money by cer-
tain individuals, and certain brewers, and certain
companies who were pecuniarily interested in oppos-
ing this Bill.
But the illogical Levy didn’t follow the
advice he had prattled to Holman and say
all that was in his mind. He just deposited
the mystery or political saveloy on the pre-
mises. Then he produced another. Scobie,
of the Murray, attracted his attention, and,
turning to him, Levy ejaculated:—
I would not be found to have received packets of
sovereigns in the street, thinking they were packets
of lollies for the kids. The hon. member for the
Murray knows what I mean....Mv clients do not
meet me in George-street, and say: “Here is a packet
for you,” which I put in my pocket; and on reaching
home I do not find that, instead of being a packet of
lollies for the kids it is 50 sovereigns.
And, then, the Darlinghurst delegate de-
parted from this odor, likewise, and left it to
decorate the desert air in a furtive way like
a conductor of the evening vehicle in a dress-
suit at the opera.
The “Old Style” Unionist Butts In.
An “industrial disturbance” that threatens
disaster to a lot of people is at present
hovering over Melbourne. It originated this
way. In February last year ex-M.L.A.
Holden was taken from his then position
as boss of the Geelong (Vic.) Harbor Trust
—where he had not been a specially gaudy
success —and appointed Chairman of Mel-
bourne’s newly-constituted Trust. With him
were ex-M.L.A. and M.P. Boyd and M.L.C.
McPherson, but in the present unpleasant-
ness they don’t appear to count. On June
12 last year the secretary of the Federated
Harbor and River Employees’ Associations
of Australia wrote to Holden asking an in-
terview to discuss certain grievances of the
Trust’s employees. Holden refused—he
would meet the employees, singly or in a
body, but he would have no dealings with
outsiders. In a word, either out of natural
cantankerousness or acquired bumptious-
ness, he refused to recognise the unions.
The unions, remembering that they are recog-
nised by most of the large private employers
of the Commonwealth, took up the challenge,
and after argument declared a boycott of all
Trust work. They carried it out in the cases
of some private firms, and on July 6 this
year, when the Trust sent certain vessels
to the State dockyard to be repaired, the
unionists declined to touch them. The ship-
yard was thereupon closed down with a
slam, and all employees locked out—an ill-
advised move, inasmuch as it left the original
comparatively trivial parties to the dispute
—the Trust and its employees—in the back-
ground and pushed the State Government
and some 17 unions into the position where
David sent Uriah — not Uriah Heep, but
the Hittite of the same front name.
Since the 6th inst. matters have pro-
gressed, and various other parties have
become involved, including the Trades
Hall Industrial Disputes Committee and
several State and Federal politicians.
Also an even larger argument is proceeding
between the combatants on the Labor side.
There being obviously a dispute, the Trades
Hall Committee got busy, saw Premier Pea-
cock and Public Works Minister Hagel-
tiiorn, and agreed that the men would re-
turn to w'wk if those dismissed were re-
instated. But five of the principal unions
concerned, including the Amalgamated En-
gineers and the Boilermakers —none of the
five being affiliated with the P.L.C.—curtly
remarked that the Disputes Committee had
no power to commit them. Also, which is
the important point, they intimated that
they didn’t care one old bashed hat for the
effect of the dispute on the coming elections,
Federal and State. They took little interest
in the political side of the issue. In fact,
they were industrial unionists and no more.
That is where they have gone astray. The
sense and justice of their claim for recogni-
tion is obvious; and the futility of “strik-
ing” against a State Government, which they
decline to try and capture, is equally ob-
vious. The dispute is at present purely a
State one, but it can hardly extend beyond
its present limits without becoming Federal.
The men may not suffer through their action
—work is alleged to be awaiting them in
other cities—but it isn’t likely that they will
gain from the State what they are
striking for—the recognition of the unions.
Yet by united and enthusiastic action in a
political direction they might get all they
want. Instead of arguing with the Govern-
ment they might be the Government. They
appear to have forgotten that there were
many, strikes in Victoria before 1800 with-
out anything being gained with effective legal
endorsement. And then the Labor party
came along and the first Wages Boards
presently happened. The party is still on
deck, fairly strong and solid, and to-day
over 100 Wages Boards are determining
wages, hours and conditions in as many
trades, with legal endorsement, and not
merely by temporary consent of the em-
ployer. Fifty strikes would not accomplish
in as many years what the presence of Labor
in politics has done in a couple of decades.
Yet these unionists decry and scorn the
political aspect of the matter. They are
wasting their time.
About a Cheery Suicide.
“Black Swan” writes concerning Scad-
dan’s frozen smile and other things:—
Premier Scad, dan, of Westralia, doesn’t wear the
popular label of “Happy Jack” for nothing. He
has met every kind of discouragement with a cheery
smile. He is responsible for steamships, ferries,
butchers’ shops, sawmills, brickworks, implement
works, pubs and tramways, and is about to go into
the joinery business. The fact that he is losing
money on all of them except the pubs and the
trams doesn’t worry him a bit. When a rabid
Oppositionist points to the hole in the Treasury dug
by his steamers, “Happy Jack” merely chortles:
“But look at my trams!” Somebody else points the
finger%f scorn at his meat stalls. “But what about
my pubs!” he answers. When he is reminded of
his statement that his sawmills would, when in full
swing, turn out 78,000 sleepers a month, whereas
they can’t produce more than 50,000, he never argues
the point, but chirrups that his pubs and his trams
pay all right. Since Parliament opened the other
day the mutilated cadaver of every one of his
failures has been thrown at him. But he does not
wince. He just smiles, and invites his worst
enemy to come and have one with him —at the State
pub, of course.
The present Parliament dies in October, and every-
body, inside and outside, who is looking for a £3OO
a year job is getting ready for the funeral. For
the three months that remain, “Happy” Scaddan
has set out work which would take any State Legis-
lature from three to 30 years to get through. Even
his own side gasped when he dumped his bundle on
the floor of the House, and Wilson, the Opposition
man, tore his hair and his backers shed tears. The
first Bill, right on top of the heap, is a humorous
affair, which, after being torn to pieces in the Assem-
bly and carried out of the Council on a shovel, was
patched up again, and is to be used in the election
row. It proposes to do for the Legislative Council
what England has done for the House of Lords.
“Happy Jack’s” first idea was to abolish the Upper
House altogether; but the Trades Hall held other
views. The man who wants to wipe out 30 jobs at
£3OO a year and pickings must not look for help
from the Trades Hall in Westralia.
It is in finance, however, that Jack has cut his
name deepest. When he took on his present job he
found a small surplus. It wasn’t much of a surplus,
still it was a surplus. According to the Treasury
returns, there has never been anything else since then
but a growing and very vigorous deficit. In the six
years prior to Scaddan’s advent, some £7,000,000
of loan money was spent. In John’s three years the
debt has increased by nearly £10,000,000. Taking
revenue and loan money together, “Happy Jack”
has been spending some £8,000,000 a year, or nearly
twice as much as his predecessors. Still, in return,
we’ve got steamships which lose heavily, butcher’s-
stalls which eat money, and other trading concerns
which move the unrighteous to mirth. And through
it all “Happy Jack” beams beatifically.
The plain English of the situation is that the
interests of the State, and of the Commonwealth
also, are sacrificed to party. Party and spoils come
first every time. We want population, and Labor
openly opposes its introduction, while the Liberal
rank and file is by no means enthusiastic over it.
Meantime the gentle Jap. is putting a fine edge on
his tomahawk, and looks more pleased every day.
Does.the average inhabitant of this continent realise
the solemn fact that the coast of Australia from the
Nor’-West Cape round by the north to York Penin-
sula is in Yellow hands? It is a cold truth that
99 per cent, of the pearl and trepang industries and
75 per cent, of all the other ways of making money
on that coast-line are controlled by the little men
from the North, the Chinese aiding him, and the
Malay and Manilaman carrying wood and water for
both. They probably don’t know why things are
made so easy for them. If they did know they would
shout “Banzai!” as well as a drink or two for the
party system.
“The Old Soldier” :
There is a disquieting divergence of opinion on the
submarine and battleship question. Scott swears
that the submarine must drive the Dreadnought to
the scrap hean but that the cost of naval defence
will only be increased thereby. And now, according
to a recent cable, there is building in a British yard
on Tyneside for some unspecified foreign Govern-
ment “the most powerful battleship in the world.”
“She will displace 30,500 tons, and her armor will be
13iin. thick.” On the same day the cable men-
tioned that Professor Biles, who was in Australia
two or three years ago, had been talking to a meet-
ing of naval architects at Newcastle-on-Tyne on the
same old subject. “Battleships,” he said, “did not
possess an effective defence against under-water
attack; and it could only be met by the destruction of
submarines by submarines, or by armor-plating the
bottoms of the battleships. The latter idea deserves seri-
ous consideration, but, if adopted, would reduce the
speed two knots.” Someone asked if the armor-plated
bottom would really be effective, but he appears to have
been met by a vast silence. Neither the Professor
nor anyone else can know the answer to this ques-
tion, till battleships and submarines are tried against
each other in the next great sea-fight. Prof. Biles is
supposed to know everything that is to be known
about naval architecture, and when he says that
armor-plating a battleship’s bottom would reduce the
speed by two knots, he means that the weight of the
extra armor would sink her so deeply as to increase
the resistance to that extent. The remedy would- be
to build very much larger battleships, and that
would mean more expense all round, not only a larger
and more costly hull, but more powerful and more
costly engines, and a very much heavier coal-bill, a
larger crew, and bigger outlay for victualling and stores
of all kinds And even then, it might turn out that
the armored bottom was of no avail. The only cer-
taintv that emerges from this controversy is that
whichever side is right, the Defence Bill is bound ta.
go on swelling.
Party Cries.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Continuing, Mr. Briner said that while a line from
Glen Innes to Inverell was justified as a line by
itself, the proper connection for the Tableland rail-
way was from, etc., etc
Mr. McGirr spoke strongly in favor of railway
duplication, and also the early completion of certain
branch lines in his own electorate, particularly the
line from Yass to Canberra.
-—From N.S.W. Assembly debates.
When the Minister for Works got up to
introduce a Bill
Providing for a railway from Cow Flat to
Jumbuck Hill;
Also lines from Borromunni, and Bedamtoyu,
and Sloes;
There was quite a gentle stirring in the
members’ sleepy rows.
Every man at once took notice, and approv-
ing cheers rang forth
As the Minister announced lines running
South, and West, and North,
“With the terminus at Sydney.” ( Loud
applause) ... .“to aid and bless
Struggling settlers in the backblocks.”
(Cries of “Certainly!” and “Yes!’’)
“True” (the Minister continued), “that the
money-market’s tight;
But the Government won’t falter. Every-
thing will be all right.”
And “he took it that the members —and par-
ticularly those
Representing Borromunni, Cow Flat, Jum-
buck Hill and Sloes,
And the other places mentioned —would sup-
port the Government;
He would guarantee that no line could pay
less than six per cent.”
{Loud applause.) And, then, consider how
“these lines would save distress:
In our noble, golden Future!” (Cries of
“Certainly” and “Yes.”)
Here the member for Jumbunna rose and
caught the Speaker’s eye.
He remarked that “in the ointment there
was only one small fly.”
For “the line from Borromunni should go
round by Drovers’ Gap,
Linking up, en route, Jumbunna with the
mines at Sozzletap.”
(Cries of “Yes!” and “No!” and laughter.)
Then another member rose
Who took very strong exception to a line
that ran from Sloes,
While Keedoodle was omitted. “It was noth-
ing much to guess
That some influence was present.” (Cries
of “Certainly!” and “Yes!”)
But the Minister protested, and an “angry
scene” ensued,
Till the Speaker quelled the quarrel with a
happy platitude.
Then a common-minded member —a coarse
grocer-chap, named Jones—
Asked “if all these blooming railways were
to be built out of loans?”
With a hundred millions owing, and a lot
more on the way,
And a five-per-cent, loan-market “would
these railways ever pay?”
The proposals sounded splendid, but his ques-
tion he would press—
“ Would the new lines pay for building?”
(Cries of “Certainly!” and Yes!”)
Then the members for Jumbunna and for
Sloes and Jumbuck Hill
Threw themselves back on the cushions,
racked with laughter fit to kill;
And the Minister roared loudly, while the
clerks and Speaker smiled
At that common-minded member, just as if
he were a child.
And the Minister, quite suavely, rose and
said there was no fear;
All they asked was nineteen millions, and
the money wasn’t dear ;
With “our glorious resources,” and good
seasons, he’d confess
It would be a grand investment”
(Cries of “Certainly!” and “Yes!”)'
(Bill passed amid cheers.)
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
'6B
4
to
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OE THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and ...
"MACKIE'S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
r
c*
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&, OLD TOM
%
DT
.Swift & Company Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
The day-baking phantom has fled like so
many other fair visions. Melbourne had
hardly grasped the long-aspired-for boon
when it escaped—and apparently for ever.
The blame lies at the doorstep of the absurd
fact that there are no compulsory clauses
iu Victoria’s Minimum Wage legislation.
-Lhe Wages Boards’ decisions must be obeyed
—so long as work continues. But if the
employer doesn t like them he is free to resort
to a lock-out, and if the employee is simi-
larly dissatisfied he can safely strike. In
the matter of bread-baking the Board couldn’t
declare that bread should only be baked by
of the sun ; all it could do was what
it did to fix the wages to be paid during
certain fixed hours —8 a.m. to 6 p.m.—and
to stipulate for double time if the employee
asked to work outside those hours, at
night. And hence disaster. Barely a third
of Melbourne’s baking is done by union
employees; the rest is performed by non-
unionists or “independent” workers and by
small” men who do their own baking and
get their shops and delivery carts attended
to by their families. These latter saw a
chance to grab the union-employing baker’s
business, and rushed around with red-hot
bread, or thereabouts, while their rivals were
offering an article 12 hours old. Also, a
number of bread-factors employing non-
unionists baked at night, as they were
legally entitled to do provided they paid the
wages fixed, viz., 3s. 2d. per hour. Between
the two, the union-employing constructor of
the staff of life by day found that he was
getting it in the neck. The portals of the
Insolvency Court loomed. Becoming despe-
rate he put it to the union that it was a
question with him of night-baking or a life of
enforced leisure, varied by navvying, or some-
thing similar. The union capitulated. And
simultaneously one of the best chances that
the public has been offered in years of evad-
ing the menace dvspepsia, vanishes into the
mirk.
The Bellbird Colliery (N.S.W.) has settled
its afternoon shift row —the row which has
been holding up the local coal mining in-
dustry for weeks past—in a sensible man-
ner. The men are to continue working the
hated hours, at an extra rate of pay, till the
Bellbird Colliery’s present contracts are ful-
filled. The co. is meanwhile to develop its
mine in such a way as to allow working
places for the former afternoon-shifters by
day, in addition to the existing body of day-
toilers. _ And when those desirable con-
summations have been achieved the bad old
system which kept men toiling into the
innermost bowels of the night will be slain
and buried ingloriously and for ever, so far
as the Bellbird institution is concerned.
The whole objection of the John Brown
collieries to the abolition of the afternoon
shift is bound up with Brown’s existing
contracts. He undertook them at a time
when, though the afternoon shift tornado
was threatening, it hadn’t actually burst.
Brown’s invidious position now is that he
stands to lose heavily by the strike in the
end, and almost as heavily if, by yielding
to the men, he ends the strike —since, to
fulfil his contracts, he must win a certain
large amount of coal daily, and having made
no _ provision for possible trouble, by pro-
viding additional working-places, he is not
in a position to hew sufficient coal without
the extra shift. If only for the rotten rea-
sons (1) that Brown has enough money to
remain obdurate, and (2) that he has a
way of being obdurate, it behoves the
miners to make concessions. If they let it be
understood that they are willing to go back
to work on the same terms as the Bellbird
men—that is to say. that they will work
the afternoon shift till the present contracts
of the Brown and other collieries are com-
pleted, on condition that arrangements are
made to absorb them as day-miners in the
meantime, and that later the night shift
shall be wholly abolished—then the con-
tentious aud arrogant Brown will be left
without a limb to rest upon, equitably speak-
ing. If, after such proposals, he still re-
mains irreconcilable, the only thing will be
for Parliament, in the interests of order and
good governement, to pass a short Bill de-
claring Brown to be legally and industrially
dead, like the body of his famous namesake
whose soul went marching on.
In the N. S. Wales Assembly a few even-
ings back, while the anti-borrowing plank of
the Labor platform was under discussion,
Peters, of the Holman-Israel party, said it
was only an “abstract” plank. Presumably
what he meant was “abstracted.”
From Webster, M.H.R.:—
Lest a Bulletin par. (16/7/T4) should be taken
to connect me with the disappearance of the
Speaker’s notes during last session, will you let me
say that I never approached the Speaker’s chair
nearer than where the mace was placed, some four
yards away, immediately leaving the Chamber after
that suggested .ioke, by the main entrance. This
was corroborated fey the only persons who saw the
mace incident. So you will see it was a physical
impossibility for me to have touched the book.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Lov6 ’’
Adelphi “The Barrier ”
Little Theatre “Sweet Lavender ”
1 ivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
National Theatre Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures
Olympia West’s Pictures
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Glaciarium Ice-Skating
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing
Town Hall Paul Dufault Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Pirates of Penzance”
{ YING s Leroy, Talma & Bosco
£ oyal •' “Officer 666 ”
J RINCESS 8 “The Colleen Bawn ”
Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
M est’s Palace West’s Pictures
Majestic Spencer’s Pictures
Glaciarium Ice-Skating
Buou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
♦ :
For his latest production at the Sydney
Little Theatre on Saturday Hugh Buckler
went back to the 20-year old “Sweet Lav-
ender” of Pinero. This domestic drama is
meant merely to amuse, and, despite the poor
presentation, it amused the first-night audi-
ence, and will continue to amuse. In con-
struction it is already old-fashioned. Two
of the prominent characters in the cast are
Mr. Aside and Mrs. Soliloquy. The simple
little story tells of the love of Clement Hale,
who is studying in the Temple, London, for
Lavender, the daughter of liis housekeeper.
Hale is an adopted son; and his father,
Wedderburn, disinherits him when he dis-
covers Hale’s love affair. Also Lavender’s
mother recogmises in Wedderburn the man
who had “ruined” her years ago. Lavender
is really Wedderburn’s daughter. It is at
this stage that the audience sighs with relief
when it finds that Hale is not Lavender’s
brother. In the end Wedderburn and Lav-
ender’s mother are reconciled, all the char-
acters are grouped in a semi-circle on the
stage, and each is given an appropriate tag
to speak, quite in the fashion of a musical
play.
* * * *
Such a piece depends solely upon its per-
fume, and on Saturday evening the perfume
of lavender had evaporated. It smells more
like moth balls. Eileen Robinson is, it is
true, a charming picture of early Victorian
clinging and appealing modesty, but with-
out the depth of character that would make
her grief pathetic; and- Lillian Lloyd, as her
mother, is pleasant and placidly forgiving.
Kenneth Brampton, as the lover, makes a
manly and convincing lover in a part that
is simple and straight. Gerald K. Souper
is courtly and sincere in a part that affords
him little chance of being anything else.
Violet Paget flutters through her part of
an English maid gracefully and beautifully
gowned, and the support of Wilson Forbes
and Temple Pigott is good. Hugh Buckler,
however, contents himself with being merely
THE MEXICAN WOBBLE AT THE
SYDNEY TIVOLI TANGO TEA .
The Tango girls as “sailors.”
beauteous in a glossy hat and a slightly shop-
soiled American accent, in the part of Horace
Bream, Pinero’s stage conception of an in-
habitant of the United States. The moth-
ball perfume comes from Arthur Cornell’s
interpretation of Dick Phenyl, the delightful
old. bachelor who shares rooms with Hale.
This character should pervade the atmo-
sphere with a perfume of genial good-heart-
edness, a scent of wholesome sweetness un-
derlying the acridness of his brusque
and testy exterior. Instead, Arthur Cornell
presents a snappy, almost disagreeable old
man. His mannerisms are crude and forced ;
and occasionally he comes perilously near to
clowning. Apparently, in his obvious —and
successful —efforts to get a laugh he has for-
gotten that Dick Phenyl is meant by his
author to be human and lovable.
“MADAME X,"
AT THE SYD-
NEY CRITERAON.
Madame X, murderess (Muriel Starr),
thrills the court on discovering that her long-
lost son is defending her.
“Gipsy Love” is in its last three weeks.
Not that it hasn’t been a complete success,
but for the reason that “The Girl in the
Taxi” is arriving in Sydney, and cannot be
accommodated anywhere but at Her Maj-
esty’s. Meanwhile there will be staged
at this playhouse, on Tuesday, July 28, by
the Actors’ Association, a stupendous
matinge in honor of Ellen Terry. The trial
scene from “the Merchant of Venice” will
be played with the immortal Tith. as Shy-
lock, Walter Bentley as Antonio, and the
greatest living woman-interpreter of Shak-
speare as Portia. Also, plays and portions
of plays will be done or perpetrated by
companies from other theatres. It should
be a great occasion.
Maud Allan not having materialised at
the Palace (Sydney), as threatened last
week,. her stand has been occupied by mov-
ing pictures. Maud is said to have gone
to Queensland, but this paper doesn’t vouch
for it. A. thoroughly trustworthy reporter
of a reptile morning contemporary would
deal with the matter this way:—
Miss Maud Allan was, it is alleged, to have reap-
peared at the Palace on Saturday, July XI, after an
alleged knee-strain. According to a statement made
to a representative of this paper, the alleged under-
taking was not fulfilled. It was alleged, however,
that Miss Allan would appear at the theatre on the
ensuing Saturday, the additional rest being due, so
it was alleged, to the advice of her doctor. On the
date mentioned the popular dancer did not keep the
alleged promise to the public, and it is now alleged
that the Sydney season is abandoned for the present,
and that Miss Allan has gone to Brisbane. Late
last night it was alleged that on her return from
Queensland she will play a season in the Royal,
allegedly following “Bunty Pulls the Strings.”
Meanwhile, Mary Pickford may be seen for
sure on the Palace cino. screen in “Tess of
the Storm Country.”
* * sk *
“Bunty Pulls the Strings” with the same
confidence, ability and financial retaliation on
behalf of the public as when The Bulletin
mentioned the Royal last. As the Sydney
season is drawing to a close, box-office pro-
crastinators are urged to become the an-
tithesis of the Liberal party—intelligently
alert to the necessities of the moment.
An unusual combination of circumstances
have told on “Mr. Wu” at the Adelphi
(Sydney). Not content with merely handi-
capping it with a name that is not calcu-
lated to bring it popularity in Australia, the
authors have branded four of the characters
Holman, Carruthers, Murray and Gregory.
An affliction like that could have only one
effect, and “Mr. Wu” will expire to-morrow
night. “The Barrier,” by the same co.—on
the whole, a very capable co. —is due on
Saturday.
* * ❖ 5k
At the Sydney Cry-terion Muriel Starr
and the audience still mingle their tears.
Australia’s hard-working Maud Fanning
is back at the Sydney National Amphi-
theatre, doing a turn with a couple of big
youngsters that look likely vaudevillains.
Maud shakes her business up as of yore, and
never goes short of a friendly audience.
Others on the bill who have this paper’s
permission to put on frill are Stirling and
Love, the Hartley Wonders, Matilde and
Elvira, and the La Stella trio. A big batch
of freshcomers will be unloaded on Saturday.
5k sj; *
Beth Tate, Sydney Tivoli’s latest, makes
up for what she sadly lacks in voice and
song by dress ; but, as dresses can be seen
in any of the big shops free of
charge Mis# Tate doesn’t threaten to
be a success of large dimensions.
Dusty Rhodes, with a good selection
of parodies on just about everything, and
Josh Dixon, a particularly asinine comedian,
ought to do the Tiv.’s cash-box a heap of
good. Also present: Winifred Ward, who
after Saturday leaves a gap in the pro-
gramme that might easily be filled with a
less cheerful item; Gilday and Fox (ditto),
and Eugene Damond, the violinist.
5k * 5k 5k
Tango toddlers are the latest to invade the
Imperial Palace de Luxe (Sydney), at chil-
dren’s afternoon private parties, and the bulk
of them seem to know all the eccentric (not
to say demented) footwork of their fond,
perspiring mammas. On the night of
August 4 there will burst upon an entranced
community a masked ball.
The first sports night of the Sydney Glaci-
arium season is booked for next Tuesday,
and a hockey match for ladies and a male
half-mile sprint are to be the star items. The
annual carnival, to arrive on August 20, is
for some reason or other to be labelled “The
Palace of Golden Domes.” , Randolph Bed-
ford and a few other of The Bulletin’s
friends whose domes will readily lend them-
selves to gilding are understood to be already
secured at a high premium.
** * *
After all, the camels did not come to Ade-
laide Royal with “Joseph.” They had been
disqualified in an earlier round for biting
the referee, or something. Two asses, how-
ever, also ran —except one evening, when
they declined to run. The Biblical melo-
drama strikes this critic as effective and
enjoyable. So does Miss Ethel Warwick’s
acting, especially where she goes to her
Doom with a careless jest. It is necessary
to record, however, that some of her strong-
est scenes move a section of the audience to
laughter. Malcolm Tearle is good as the
girlish hero, better as the bullied interpreter
of dreams, not quite so good as the Disraeli-
like lawmaker of later years. Julius Knight
is now back for a welcome week of “Beau-
caire.” Ada Reeve has gone from the Tivoli,
much regretted. Baroness d’Astreel does not
adequately fill the gap ; but she looks nice,
sings in a very French style, and has a jolly
good tenor as partner. At the King’s, Dare
and Norwood’s neat but strenuous athletic
turn has been the best thing in sight. Weston
continues to impersonate Cook, Queen Vic-
toria and others, with varying success;
Clement May does the same thing more
effectively with Dickens characters. West’s
have an “Orders under Seal” film, and Won-
dergrapli a gloomy absinthe drama. This
latter co. still has a lease of the Town Hall,
and has been running amateur competitions,
which Marcus, so long in command at the
Tivoli, came out from his retirement to
judge.
* * * *
Orpen’s painting insists on butting-in to
the Adelaide Shows this week, as it is the
most rushed spectacle in that city. The Art
Gallery, after hanging it, quickly lost its
ordinary peaceful air. The day’s record of
visitors leapt from hundreds to 4000, and
then to 5000. On Sundays the Gallery
gives a brilliant imitation of a sausage. It
is a long series of rooms, with only one
opening to it; and The Picture (as Ade-
laide now calls it simply) was in the far-
thest room. So the place became steadily
stuffed. In the three hours allowed to Art
on Sunday, 12,500 people battled in. Most
of these go away and write letters to the
papers. Many are hysterical in abuse; ,a
few are ditto in praise. Others suppose there
must be something in it, because certain
English critics say so. A few guess that
Orpen is having an elaborate joke with his
admirers.
t',: t'f * *
“The Yeoman of the Guard,” the one Gil-
bert and Sullivan opera from which satire
and cynicism were carefully omitted, is put-
ting in its appointed week at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). The revival, as a whole, seems
somewhat undersized, for the chorus of
“beefeaters” at the Tower of London num-
bers only 10, and the citizens, mostly girls,,
who have the run of the establishment and:
who rush to the front whenever an execu-
tion or other diversion is provided, hardly
suffice to fill the stage. In previous produc-
tions of “The Yeoman” the volume of opera
has been larger and richer in colored illus-
trations, but the latest edition is neatly
enough bound. It should have a good sale —
for a week.
* * * *
Compared with previous performances this
is peculiarly patchy—as good as the best in
some places, and weaker than the weakest in
others. The very minor character of Leon-
ard Meryll is presented by a young man
whose face is his ill-fortune, whilst his de-
portment, actions and manner of speaking
lack dramatic instinct, and his legs merit
condign punishment for having carried him
into the profesh. Yet he has a bright tenor
voice, and his singing in a concerted number
is as pleasing as that of the crudely-amateur-
ish niece of Dame Carruthers, who makes a
brief. appearance later on. None of. the
principals are thoroughly satisfactory ex-
cept Arnold as Sergeant Meryll. He acts:
convincingly throughout the proceedings, and',
would be excellent if he were a trifle larger-
and louder. McKeown is a picturesque,,
sweet-voiced Colonel Fairfax, but he tends:
to. affectation in his histrionics. Frank;
Wilson, made up like a scowling villaim
rather than a dignified autocrat, gives no>
importance to the Governor of the Tower.,
Miss _ Ethel Morrison, despite her
comeliness —which makes old Meryll seerni
inhuman in his aversion to her —goes as fan-
as her vocal limitations permit in the Dame'
part. Kavanagh has noveltv to commend!
him as a stout, gouty Wilfred Shadbolt. Re>
ought to be more like the long, lean Wilfred!
that Howard Vernon created for Australia!.
But he speaks forcibly and he scores at least;
one notable success. His lumbering antic*
in the duet with Jack Point, where the-
jester instructs him in the- business- of being
funny, help to get a double- encore- for the-
item. Point, as Wallen plays him,, iis a>
sturdy, genial joker usually, and' a breathi-
less, dismal Jacky sometimes. The charac-
terisation is strikingly ill-balanced, and 1 the
first attempts at pathos are overwrought.
The Gilbertian parody of a Shakspearian
clown is hardly indicated by Wallen. He
is best at the beginning and end of his con-
tract, his “I Have a Song to Sing-O” duet
with Elsie being quaintly acted on new lines.
Miss Pearl Ladd, the Casilda of “The Gon-
doliers,” makes a graceful, highly-sophisti-
cated Elsie. She is not the girl that
Gilbert intended, but she is an interesting
heroine with an effective voice for all pur-
poses. A little more sugar in its singing
tones would make it a capital voice. As
for Miss Dorothy Vane, in the foremost part
of Phoebe, her singing is too nearly akin to
talking,, and her acting, as a rule, is more
suggestive of a musical-comedy soubrette
than a simple 16th century coquette. She
has her happy moments, of course, and her
petulant display of jealousy is artistic. All
the same, Miss Vane fails to get much sym-
pathy for the Phoebe who was so delightful
a little character in the hands of Aggie
Thorne a few years ago.


me OLD ORIGINAL
DANIEL
CRAWFORD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. A . watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
For next Saturday the bill is “Pirates of
Penzance ” plus “Trial By Jury.” Mean-
while Wallen (not to mention others of the
co.) should have his enunciation sand-
papered. His utterance of patter words
leaves most of the syllables to be desired.
“Whither?” the three-act play of Mary E.
Wilkinson that gave the McMahon ama-
teurs something to do at St. Patrick’s Hall,
Melbourne, on Saturday night, is the inter-
esting first effort of an Australian, not speci-
ally striking in theme or sentiment, but
fairly effective in dialogue and character
drawing. The feminine touch is apparent
throughout the piece, and the artless bias is
demonstrated by the superabundance of
women who are suffering some form of
masculine tyranny. Five or six of the dam-
sels described as typists deliver a small
oratorio on the wickedness of the man-made
commercial system. Miss Hillson, a leading
figure, is silently embittered by the know-
ledge that her old man’s inability to earn a
living has forced her to misuse her Univer-
sity education in a city office. The same
lady’s mamma is wronged by the same
accidental possession of a very superiah
Hinglish intellect. Another lady with an
impromptu baby bears a loud grudge with-
out an aspirate in it against the author of
the “wrong.” And still another, Georgiana
Rixon, is philosophically hostile to Man
in general. The one female in the play
who is above masculine exploitation has —
it must be admitted —been amply provided
for by a kind, far-sighted pa. As for the
four males in the show, one is a boy of
limited mentality ; another a cigarette fiend,
somewhat overdressed and theatrically over-
colored ; the third a burlesque of an Eng-
lish gentleman, probably driven to drink by
his wife’s alternating spasms of blubbering
and fussiness; while the only reasonable
male of all is an earnest young prig who
might be the offspring of the Whitefield-
Tanner match, celebrated with much lan-
guage in “Man and Superman.” The youth,
David Walsh, certainly recalls John Tanner
in his amorous infatuation; and Miss Rixon,
who pursues him, while spouting Pank-
hurstian arguments to disguise her inten-
tions, schemes on the lines of Ann White-
field. The mutual attraction of these two
furnish most of the drama in Miss Wilkin-
son’s play, and while the pair are going
through their various emotional phases, the
other characters are tiresomely discussing
Lovely Woman’s sexual and economic ideals
without arriving at any decision in par-
ticular. “Whither?” is euphonious and im-
posing as a title, but the only part of it
that gives a clue to the drama is its stark,
staring note of interrogation. In short,
the entertainment ends, as it begins, with
the Woman Question unanswered. Frank
Keon takes the part of the boozy Hillson
capably enough, though there are occasions
when his excessive insobriety gets near to
farce. Mrs. Arnold, as Ellis Hillson, rather
forces the melodramatic note of the rble,
and emphasises her self-sacrifice until it
seems like a crude form of egotism; while
Miss Hyslop, as Georgiana Rixon, is only
ineffective in the periods when the clap-
trap of feminist logic takes the place of her
natural conversation. Among the others,
who are all passable, Mrs. Fowler (Mrs.
Hillson), Miss Winterson (Robina Rixon),
Miss Richardson (Miss Denham), and .T.
B. Cussen (David Walsh) do very credit-
able work.
Fresh illusions and further live stock were
introduced by Leroy, Talma and Bosco at
the King’s (Melb.) last Saturday, but the
bustle and bonhomie of the conjurers remain
as. usual. Leroy continues to blot human
beings out of visible existence. Talma pro-
duces half-crowns from an aerial mint, and
Bosco makes two rabbits grow where one
grew before. Also the dancers are still eccen-
tric, and the juggler is a lightning-change
artist, and Santucci. of the accordeon, ex-
tracts peals of melody from his* glorified
“squiffer.” The present variety show will
last until Wednesday, a ! nd on Thursday
Harry Lauder is to return for an eight-
nights season.
* * * Jf:
At Melbourne Royal the rapid Niblo will
keep “Officer 666” on the boil until Thurs-
day next week. On Saturday (30th) Napo-
leon Julius will rid himself of his missus
with a decree absolute.
:;s *
Gentle Allen Doone is back at Melbourne
Princess’s, and the co. is dealing with “The
Colleen Bawn” in a variety of accents —
more-or-less Irish and otherwise. Bouci-
cault’s old drama needs a star attraction to
draw even an artless Erinated audience now-
adays ; therefore a crowded house on Satur-
day was a further proof of many people’s
good faith in Doone as a shining light. In
this case he saunters through a part that is
not essential to the story. There is no girl
for him to warble little ditties to, and no
father-in-law elect for him to placate. Never-
theless the joy of the audience is centred in
the sayings and doings of Doone, and his
most casual remarks serve to set the circle in
a roar. For the rest, there is the old plot
of the poor colleen and the rich ditto and
the maimed Danny, who tried to dhrown the
poor colleen for the sake of his young mas-
ther Hardress. Also the praste and the
haughty mother are there; likewise the other
young squire and an interpolated shower of
rain which descends upon a section of the
stage before a front cloth, and is wetter than
the water whence Eily is rescued by the
accidental Doone. Miss Bashford and Miss
Keeley are the colleens; Farnham and Edge-
worth figure as Kyrle and Hardress respec-
tively ; Maurice Lynch is an exceptionally
elderly sort of Danny ; and Ella Carrington,
Buckley and Ethel Grist add local talent to
the cast. “The Colleen Bawn” gives place
to “The Burglar and the Lady” after 12
nights.
* * * *
Among the matters of moment at Mel-
bourne Tivoli last Saturday were the re-
turn of Ada Reeve and the first appearance
of Thornley Dodge and the Omega Trio.
The last-mentioned are strikingly skilful
equilibrists. Miss Reeve in a fresh white
gown is as pleasing as before; the whistling
Taft continues to deliver his stridently un-
musical tribute to Sousa: also Ralph
Errolle is still determined to fall like a
soldier in a quaint, swallow-tail coat and
stovepipe pants.
* * >:= *
In the current attractions at Melbourne
Bijou are the Miles Stavordale banjoists;
Billy Lee, stockwhip expert; Bonita, crack
rifle shot; and Hanlon, Dean and Hanlon,
comedy acrobats. The Weston Models are
also disclosing their shapeliness once more,
and Brinkman and the Steele Sisters are
singing separately or together. The crowd
seems to be especially grateful to Brinkman
when he tucks his silvered cranium into a
fireman’s helmet and warbles of fire-fighting
with impressive arm-play.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
OPERA CO. (HER
MAJESTY'S ,
MELBOURNE).
Charles R. Wallen as
the Lord Chancellor in
“ Lolanthe.”
Edward MeKeown
as Earl Tolloller in
“ lolanthc .”
Mark Antony and the dark canoodler of
old Egypt continue their amorous proceed-
ings at West’s Melbourne Palace. The
ancient love-story takes over two hours to
unfold, and is filmed with a profusion of
detail.
Joseph Cook is mighty busy these days
explaining that there is no need to send the
Referendum around again to ask whether
the Constitution should not be amended in
order to deal with Trusts and Combines.
With a superior smile Cook says there is
plenty of. power to deal with them now, if
there are any, and that if it hadn’t been for
the bungling of the Fisher Government in
the Sugar and other cases the sword of the
Law would have long ago fallen. All right.
The Australian Government has just been
handed a report from the Royal Commission
on the Fruit Industry, and this is a signifi-
cant portion of it: —
A few Aims in the Commonwealth control the
bulk of the overseas export trade. The Tasmanian
fruit exporting firms are outwardly separate entities,
each operating in its own particular sphere, and
apparently a certain amount of competition exists
between the two principal firms, Messrs. H. Jones
and Co., Hobart, and W. D. Peacock and Co., Hobart.
It was, however, found on investigation that these
firms are controlled by a combination which is purely
an investment company operating on lines similar to
those followed by some of the American Trusts
Competition as it is generally understood does not
exist between the firms controlled by Henry Jones
Co-operative, who are thus able to exercise a power-
ful and growing influence on local prices and condi-
tions, and the exportation and methods of sale of
Australian fruit. This in our opinion is inimical
to the best interests of the fruit-growers of the
Commonwealth.
Now, Joseph Cook, member for a fruit-
growing district, is face to face with the
job he said was easy. The Commission de-
clares that the Federal Constitution should
be amended to get over the ramparts of this
crowd; Joseph says he can do the trick with-
out that. The Bulletin and other citizens
cordially invite him to butt in and make
good his words.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Masetto”: To be auctioned on August 0, Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Mclb., as part of the estate of the
late G. E. Porter. Jules Joubert, of Exhibition fame,
opened it as the Alexandra in the ’Bo’s, and Italian
opera flourished there for a time under the Simon-
sons. Other managers tried their luck, but the
house was* in an unwholesome district, and the public
failed to respond. Dan Barry, the only one to make
a stay, did so by serving up melodrama at cheap
prices. After a chequered existence the house was
taken by J. C. Williamson, who transformed it, and,
by purchasing some obnoxious dwellings in the
vicinity, sweetened its neighborhood. He started the
theatre on its new life with “Pinafore” on May 19,
1900.
Adelaide is to have a White City, after all. The
fierce opposition to giving Eslick and Baird four
acres of the. Park lands just behind the Oval came
partly from’ city theatres, paying heavy rates, but
chiefly from those who would not have the people’s
playground pared down any further. A site has
s now been got in Kent Town, a suburb a mile out,
and the public is being asked to subscribe for 20,000
£ 1 shares to provide the fixtures. The experienced
Baird is to be manager at £5OO a year. Eslick
asks for four things: (1) A refund of his unspecified
expenses over the recent ratepayers’ poll that went
against him; (2) a directorship; (3) £lOOO for
planning and superintending the projected build-
ings ; (4) 5 per cent, on the gross receipts of the
co. for five years. And after all that an annual
profit of £lO,OOO, or 50 per cent, on the capital, is
“confidently expected” by the prospectus. The
similar affair in Sydney, it is claimed, made £25,000
profit in 22 weeks.
“Melb”: The notorious Palace Hotel, which mini-
sters to the Bijou and Gaiety theatres, is de-licensed.
The bars of the Koyal, Princess’s and Opera House
are conducted in a very different fashion. Yet all
should go. Her Majesty’s and the King’s are not
allowed bars. Why these others? Theatre bars are
remnants of former times and conditions which
passed before Her Majesty’s and the King’s were
built. Lessees would like to knock them all out ;
but the landlords hug them affectionately.
“Kaniva”: Died at Dunolly (Vic.), aged 80,
Richard Clay, who arrived in Melbourne in 1840.
His father, Frederick Lord Clay, one of the first
solicitors in Port Phillip, was also one of its most
capable musicians. With G. B. Hailes, J. E. Meg-
son and another he formed the string quartette
which played in Melbourne in the ,early ’4o’s. Geo.
Coppin, on his arrival in June, 1845, could play
only three nights a week, so his orchestra, which
included three of the talented Howson family, joined
the quartette and gave concerts on the other evenings.
F. L. Clay was articled with Swain and Co., of Old
Jewry, London, and occupied the office seat which
had just been vacated by Disraeli. Son Richard,
a gold-buyer at one time, had for many years past
. been “in the law” too.
“Harrison O.”: From misrepresentation good Lord
deliver a lowly critic! “Midchannel” (B.
16/7/’l4) brazenly misquotes me as saying that
“the best of Sullivan’s operas are deficient in orches-
tration.” What I wrote was: “Nobody has come
up to Sullivan for simple tunefulness, but his
orchestration is, at times, thin compared with the
heavily-scored work of such moderns as Lehar and
Strauss,” and I quoted “The Gondoliers” as an
example. Both “The Yeoman of the Guard” and
“The Mikado,” I know, are of better quality in this
respect, but I still maintain that there is nothing
in the Savoy series to equal the first act of “The
Chocolate Soldier” in the matter of orchestration.
“Midchannel’s” attempt to glorify Sullivan’s orches-
tration by instancing “his mastery of the art of
counterpoint, almost wholly absent from the work of
modern composers,” sets him down as a musical back-
number. Counterpoint is not indulged in by the
best moderns (especially foreigners, who never did
think much of the alleged art) simply because the
setting of points of melody one against the other —-
amongst the most ancient of musical tricks —is no
longer considered either especially clever or attrac-
tive. But what is to be gained by debating with
a writer whose unique musical knowledge leads him
to describe as “a fatuous Wagnerite” one who praises
Oscar Straus (author of that remarkable Wagnerian
composition “My Hero”!) and Lehar, whose musical
icdnoclasm is so strikingly manifested in the “Merry
Widow” waltz? As well call a critic “a fatuous
Nietzchean” because he expresses a liking for W.
W. Jacobs or Felicia Homans.
The making of non-inflammable picture films has
so far reached the practical stage that Paris muni-
cipality has forbidden all celluloid or other material
that will burn. A reasonable time is given to work
off existing stocks, but from the New Year manage-
ments will not be permitted to risk turning their
“houses” into a burnt offering.
No more—well, call it “gory”—on the stage!
The English censor allowed Bernard Shaw to put the
term in the mouth of Mrs. Pat Campbell during the
performance of “Pygmalion,” but apparently things
were said to him, and he refused to pass a new
drama, “The Supplanter,” until the expression was
struck out. Lady Gregory, manageress of the Irish
Players, agreed to make the change,, but . only
under protest, as she does not see why Barney
Shaw should be allowed to swear more than Barney
McCarthy, who wrote “The Supplanter.” Barney
Mac, by the way, is a rural mailman in Ireland.
With the two Barneys it is a case of pots-and-raillery.
The great Bernhardt seems done for at last.
Although in her 70th year, and “experiencing the
greatest difficulty in standing upright and moving
about,” she set out from Paris on a tour embracing
the principal cities of France, Belgium and Swit-
zerland. But there was a bad breakdown almost
at once, followed by the disbanding of her co. and a
big financial loss.
N’York Puck has fixed up a quick-selection rating
of theatrical shows for its readers. It labels each
current shovv A, B or C for good, fair or bad, 1, 2
or 3 according to the way the public is rushing it,
and x, y or z as drama, comedy or musical. P
denotes that Puck itself recommends it, and * that
the show is having an extraordinary run. So the
hustled New Yorker can just go for the “A P *”
among the two-dozen shows available, and select
x, y or z according to his feelings at the moment.
“Giovanni”: Have you ever been stopped in the
street by an unsophisticated friend who manages to
gasp out between gouts of laughter that you really
must see Gag, the comedian? Gag, it appears, last
night brought down the house with his impromptu
humor; even the chorus ladies were overcome with
mirth, and the show had to be held up for two
minutes while everyone roared hilariously. You pro-
duce a shilling and dash off to see him. He is in
great form. Again the ladies are overcome by his
bubbling wit and cannot proceed, and the audience,
gathering some idea from this how funny Gag is,
bellows the louder. The next day you back a
stiff’un, and, thinking a good laugh will' put you all
right, you pop in to see Gag again. Fatal mistake !
Though not a joke, not a fall over the mat, is
different, the ladies on the stage are reduced to their
usual helpless condition by Gag’s comicalities. This fake
was worked on the public by Seymour Hicks and his
beauty chorus some eight years ago. The revues
here in London (always up to date) are now exploit-
ing it, and even the front-rank men in the business
are getting their laughs by the old false pretence.
But how fatiguing it must be for the ladies to
simulate being surprised into laughter, and, finally,
after gamely trying to suppress it, frankly showing
themselves unable to continue —all twice nightly 1
“Stargazer”: In American fiction and plays, and
more especially in American films, Cupid is a bald
person of about the size, age and complexion of
Bruce Smith. The fashionable form of Uncle Sam’s
film hero is a grey, careworn man of about 48, who
pursues the beautiful, girlish heroine with a sort of
scattered outlook due to his effort to keep one eye
on Wall-street all the time. (Hence the expression
“wall-eyed.”) In this the Yankee film is true to
American life and customs. The ’Murkan of to-day
puts in his first great dash after the dollars, and
only comes back to such matters of minor importance
as courtship and marriage when he has his bin full
of dough, and is partially down and out, in the
physical sense, with bleached hair, a gaunt eye and
a stomach trouble. The film-factors have noted this,
and are hard at it catering for the dyspeptic Romeo
with the middle-age spread.
“Busk”: The appearance of Leroy, Talma and
Bosco in Melbourne leads me to catalogue the wizards
who have performed in Australia. My list: Anderson,
Bertram, Blitz, Bosco, Chapman, Czerny, Dobler,
Fakir of Oolu, Frikell, Haselmayer, Hercat, Her-
mann, Hertz, Houdini, Jacobs, Jensen, Kellar, Kolta,
Leroy, Lynn, Maskelyne, Malini, Philipps, Robin,
Stodare, Chung Ling Soo and Thurston. Hercat was
the assumed name of a Melbourne reporter who wiz-
arded in England and America, but not in Australia.
Chapman was Heller’s assistant. Czerny was Alf
Lumsden, who has tried to enter Parliament. Frikell
introduced action without apparatus. Jacobs and his
man Sprightly opened the Melbourne Olympic, Cop-
pin’s Iron Pot. Kellar first came in association with
Cunard, Ling Look and Yamadeva. Stodare first
introduced the Indian tricks. The Andersons were
father and son, and the husband of a daughter took
the name of Anderson. The great Anderson, “Wizard
of the North,” began as a street conjurer, and the
yarn goes that he was moved on by a London police-
man who afterwards became his manager—E. T.
Smith, father of Melbourne’s L. L. and lessee of
Drury Lane, Her Majesty’s and Cremorne.
(Continued on page 36.)
Delicensing of Victorian pubs by the slow-
going Reduction Board was a matter of
passing interest in Melbourne last week.
The lately rechristened Grand Central Hotel,
in Bourke-street, is to be deprived of its old
farhiliar attractions. For about 25 years
the wide-spread premises in question were
known as Wilson’s Palace Hotel. They
stand over, and otherwise adjacent to, the
Gaiety Theatre, and include the whisky bars
appertaining to the Bijou. Four convic-
tions, either for supplying liquor to a thirsty
“drunk,” or permitting lydies of ill repute
to remain on the premises, have been regis-
tered against the house within three years,
and seeing that this besmirched pub is situ-
ated in a locality where local whisky wants
are amply supplied, the Board has put the
Grand Central, nee Palace, on. its list.
Fasoli’s restaurant in King-street is another
place marked for deprivation of its beer
and spirit supplies, although there is nothing
against its character. The dining rooms at
Fasoli’s have the special patronage of those
harmless bohemians who rejoice in the ambi-
tion to feel “devilish” over their coffee and
cigarettes, and the Board suggests that the
habitual and occasional Fasolians will not
necessarily miss the liquor license when it
goes. But it must go, anyhow. Melbourne
and suburbs have lost 202 . booze emporiums
since the Board was established. In some
streets a seeker after alcohol needs to walk
quite a number of yards before he can shake
hands with the nearest barmaid, so the
pursuit of dissipation is a more arduous
undertaking than it used to be. Veteran
citizens note with sadness the disappearance
or reformation of their haunts of ldng ago.
The present writer lately had a mind to see
whether a certain dear old Flossie stood
where she did, but when he reached the spot
where her endearments formerly flourished
he found a butcher and an undertaker doing
business there. Moreover, he learned on
inquiry that the undertaker had known Floss
during her life, and had buried her when
she was no more.
THE BOOTS THAT GRANDPA WORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A song of sweet and simple things is Daisy’s choice
to-night;
Her eyes deep pools of tenderness, exceeding wide
and bright;
And there is scarce a chest that does not heave
with feeling whi.n
She warms up at the chorus, and obliges once again:
“We see them on the floor,
And love them more and more,
Breathing a sigh
For days gorn by—
‘The Boots that Grandpa Wore.’ ”
When Daisy lifts her lovely voice and bellows, loud
and long,
There’s scarce a heart that doesn’t thrill at her
stentorian song;
The air is thick with sentiment, and strong men,
warm with beer,
Lift up their sleeves and thereupon wipe off a furtive
tear.
The gods prepare to roar,
The baldheads cease to snore
When Daisy does
Her nightly buzz —-
“The Boots that Grandpa Wore.”
The days of yore are with us still, absurd though
it may seem,
When Daisy, singing, drags them back, and brightly
bids us dream
Of hopes that came to naught and ancient plans
that failed to gee,
And waves before us yards of patched and thread-
bare memory.
The dear old days of yore
Still flop round, as before,
When Daisy brings
Her offerings
Of “Boots that Grandpa Wore.”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


sd
RUGS
The Season for Good Rugs. If you want
a really reliable rug that will give you splendid
service, do not fail to see our extensive selection.
In all grades and most approved designs. Two
examples:—
Handsome Long Staple, pure Woollen ltug,
of selected Crossbred Wool. A most excellent
article. Size 80in. x 60in. Weight 51b. 22/6
D.J. Special Merino Woollen Rug, com-
bines high-grade a.uality, smart appearance and extra
warmth with lightness. Size 80in. x 60in. Weight
Glb 55/-
Carriage Paid Throughout Australasia.
David Jones Ltd.
Opp. G.PO. -SYDNEY.
Missinsr Friends.
jj.> EQTJIREI) information as to present
address of COLIN CLARKE (or
ANDERSON). Driver and General Laborer,
Formerly of Richmond, Fitzrov, Victoria,
and Sydney. Reward. J. WOOLF, Solici-
tor. 34 Queen Street. Melbourne.
ERALD, ROBERT HENRY (son of
the late ALFRED JOSEPH
HERALD), last heard of in Sydney about
seven years ago, is requested to communi-
cate with the undersigned, when he will hear
of something to his advantage.
T. W. GARRETT,
Public Trustee, Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereaeh Street, Sydney.
CHARLES WRIGHT, late of Hay and
Picton, N.S.W., communicate with
W. 11. Seddon, Castlemaine, Victoria.
Important,
Government Notices.
Department; of Defence,
Melbourne, 4th July, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Vacancies for Surgeons.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as Sur-
geon in the Royal iUmtralian Navy. There
are three (3) vacancies. Rates of pay
under present Regulations range from £387
16s. 3d. to £547 10s., including deferred pay,
but exclusive of allowances for uniform and
rations amounting to £39 10s. lOd. per
annum.
Candidates, whose ages must not exceed
28 years, or in special circumstances 30
years, must be duly registered practitioners
under States’ Medical Acts.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne, with whom applications
close on Ist AUGUST, 1914, and from the
District Naval Officer, Brisbane, Sydney,
Largs Bay (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
T. TRUMBLE,
Acting Secretary.
Society
“J.P.”: A new type of wronged maiden
with an entirely new kind of story burst
forth in Christchurch (M.L.) the other day.
A young married woman in the Flat City
received a typed, anonymous letter accusing
her of having made an indecent communica-
tion to a young girl. The police got to work,
and attached the blame firmly to a young
typiste in the city. Several experts reckoned
her machine had done the trick, and then
she partly confessed. She contended, how-
ever, that she had received an indecent com-
munication from the woman she had ad-
dressed, and what was more, she produced
the actual letter, which was neatly typed.
It was indelicate enough to satisfy the most
exacting, but the experts gazed hard at it
and discovered that it also had been written
on the little vixen’s machine ! Then there
was the usual breakdown and crumple up,
followed by a very tearful confession. It
appears that she had fallen in love with
the other woman’s husband, and, being un-
able to make any impression upon him, had
soothed her feelings as described. The
police didn’t know what to do with a sub-
ject like her. It couldn’t think of any Act
that would accommodate her special case, so
it shut its book and said it was jiggered.
Costs is having a good time over the muddle-
ment arising out of the N. S. Wales local
option vote. Costs always does have a good
time. Bung and Cold Tea have been fighting
one another over every little point either of
them could think of; and just when Cold
Tea’s whiskers were uppermost, Bung, with
his shoulders all but on the carpet, got in
a useful twist which reversed the positions.
Wynyard electorate carried induction the
election before last; but when the time came
to put up the shutters, electoral redistribu-
tion had placed one of the doomed pubs in
another electorate. Bung saw in this the
hand of Providence stretched out to save
his license. However, it was decided that
as the pub had been ordered to close it had
to close—and Cold Tea scored another fall.
But here Bung got in some scoring. The
Licensing Bench decided that there was a
vacancy for a pub in that part of the Wagga
electorate which did not carry reduction,
and that the license should go to the pub
which had been ordered to close when the
place it was in was part of the Wynyard
electorate that carried reduction. Bung’s
rejoicings over this victory were disturbed
by an appeal; and in due course the appeal
was allowed, because the Wagga electorate
had carried reduction in 1006, and the re-
duction then oi'dered did not allow of an in-
crease of pubs, although continuance was
carried at a subsequent election. What point
the next fight will be over Heaven only
knows. All that is known to people who are
not Heaven is that there will be a next fight
for certain.
INCOMPLETE .
lady (engaging cook): “Of course, you understand , there are only ladies in this
establishment.”
COOK: “Wot, no gentleman? Well, it won't suit me; a house never seems wholesome
without a gentleman.”
A PIECE .
THE COMPOSER: “have you seen my new piece?"
THE FOOL: “No. Where does she work?”
The most notable feature of the recent
tragedy at Wee Jasper, near Yass (N.S.W.),
was the slayer’s utter lack of a sense of the
relative sizes of things. In the first place
Norman Mcßean seduced his father’s pretty
servant girl, Gertrude McAlister. He pro-
posed to make things square by a private
marriage, but the girl apparently wanted
publicity and confetti and a whiff of glory.
Then, of course, it would be just possible
that when an infant was born the old local
cat might have a chance to shake her head
and comment. On the other hand, she might
not. And it wouldn’t have been any such
dreadful harm if she had shaken the whole
cat and not merely the head. A wildly, in-
genious husband might even have devised the
idea of sending the young wife away for a
few months out of the local cat orbit. But
Norman Mcßean saw the whole fabric of
the family respectability falling about his
ears, and in a wild and clumsy moment he
slew the girl with his own gun. It was
plain from the first that no stranger had
come to the house to do the crime, for the
dogs didn’t mention any unexpected arrivals,
and in a little household the young man
who was rushing around with a lighted
candle immediately after the shooting was
almost obviously the criminal. The law
went after Norman Mcßean at the rate of
two miles an hour, and a few days later he
shot himself. In the letter of explanation
which he left behind he said he was driven
to the murder- —by reason, presumably, of
the proposed public marriage and the pos-
sible infant, and the possible local cats, and
the fact that there were no such places as
Sydney or Melbourne or even Wagga in
which a young wife could hide herself away
from cats —lest his father should learn that
the moral code had been damaged in his
house, whereupon he —the said father —
“would have to leave Wee Jasper.” The
newspaper picture of the house shows noth-
ing extraordinary about it. Nor is it ex-
plained why the old man would have to leave
Wee Jasper, and in any case it is a place
that most people would gladly leave. In
fact, most people have left —or else haven’t
arrived. Incidentally a vigorous man needn’t
leave Wee Jasper; he would carry the place
away under his arm. A good healthy scorn
for Wee Jasper—the same scorn which the
mother in “The Amazons” expressed for the
public opinion of Great Overcote, Little
Overcote and Scumley—would have saved
two lives.
* * * *
Sunday Island has at last put a “To Let”
notice in the front parlor window. The little
sample of earth sticks up through the ocean
GOO miles north of Auckland, and was dis-
covered about 1837. In 1878 one Bell
moved in with his wife, and began the Adam
and Eve business as a primary producer,
with plants and seeds from Tahiti. Sunday
is one of the loneliest spots on the map.
Now and then a boat calls to look for cast-
aways, but no one else ever leaves a visiting
card. Matters did liven up a couple of
years back, when some Norwegian whalers
were around; but, as Jonah’s overcoat was
too scarce to be profitable, Olaf Tryggvasen
cleared out and left the place quieter than
ever. Lately the great hunks of solitude
got too vast and speechless even for the 15
islanders : —the original squatters and their
children. So they broke up the happy deso-
lation and made a wet track for Maoriland.
* * * *
(irT . „
liT , ama Singemome : the wild rot of
. 10 G 1 ~ of the Orange persua-
®lon ( • feu Wales vaiiety) makes me tired,
Consider tllls '
„,3 e , "' hol< b [ , Ho “ e Rul ®] t movement has been
Zft&l chinch’ * g eneray ’ the Itallan
. T . , ’ .
1110 Church of Rome has nothing to gain,
?> s ? oß urch, from the establishment of Home
4tule, and it has a good deal to lose, inas-
mucb as - Re success of the Nationalist policy
mast: sweep away that sense ot grievance
) V J ba ? j 3Ollllll tb(3 poorer Irish Catholics
Sui ? any centuries. Ihe feeling
k , 1S U P against i I'otestant m-
Justice locally has done more for the cause
.1j?° p e n A an v ,h ” ' aot ?, r -
V’dibrnm Practically
are . Home Rulers on
F eligious grounds) are, or ever have been,
est^of
land a long wavateei Lonnosed to most
cIeTS, Irom’ hedge'-pS to Car-
dinal, whose passionate patriotism over-rides
every other consideration. Here is the point of
v i ew 0 f a typj ca i Homan Catholic an'ti-
nome Ruler—of which there are thousands
j n i re i and an d millions outside Ireland—as
expressed in an issue of London Daily Mail
-.-..0f tr, ■
‘ .
vJ 5!, r i o iLm i Catb '° llcs wh ° are also CO F.
vincecl unionists, 1 object to the too common suer-
gestion that Catholic and Home Ruler are synonymous
terms. It is not “Irish Catholics,” but Nationalists
and Nonconformists with whom the Government
a^ e occupied ill scheming to spin out their term
o± , , , ~
We Unionist Catholics, headed as we are bv the
premier duke 0 f England, are quite unable to identify
the interests of our world-wide non-national Church
with the purely political aims of Nationalists—even
though many of these latter are Catholic in name,
not Rltogcthcr in their ideals,
A perusal of Cardinal Newman’s renowned “Letter
the Duke of Norfolk” might be an eye-opener to
many as to what a great cardinal of the Roman
Church thought of Home Rule in this connection,
The Cardinal, of course, was, as the Duke
i s , an anti-Horne Ruler as fervent as either
Lord Londonderry or Sir Edward Carson.
Untravelled illiterates, of the “Brother”
Robinson stamp, are unable to grasp, appar-
ently, that there is a distinction between
the political enthusiasms of certain Irishmen
and those of the rest of the members of n
ORypcß -which claims very many millions of
adhere nts. As a Church, Rome probably
cares as little for Home Rule as it does for
Orangeism
8
LIBERTY AND THE WHOLE HOG THEREOF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Equal rights!”— Woman’s grievance.
“I could kick a ‘cop.’ ’’—Yelp at a Suffragette
gathering last week.
'1 he times are muchly changing, we have tx'avelled
from the day
When the maids we knew and cherished would have
trembled in dismay
At the thought of, well, say batching, or week-
ending with a pal—
They’d have just as soon go dining with a starving
cannibal—
While a “fag” and cocktail, offered at the Flappers’
Social Club,
Would have earned the frozen visage and the grand
eternal snub.
Now, of course, it doesn’t matter, and we don’t
make any fuss
If the girls are set on being just as free as birds
like us.
Let ’em be it, let ’em be it, let ’em shake a leg and
go
On the tracks that lead to Glory or to somewhere
else we know.
Let them rough it on the razzle. Let them put the
leather in
When the John Hop’s whistle’s shrilling and it’s time
to stay his din.
Let them roll home with a load on to a somersaulting
bed;
Let them rise to face to-morrow, and to wish that
they were dead.
Let them fight and curse and quarrel, let them smoke
and likewise chew—•
For it surely is a moral that such chaps as me and
you
Do these things without compunction, as it is, of
course, our right
(Though they’re not the things exactly over which
we want to skite) ;
Dut as equal rights are wanted, and as nothing
less will suit,
Why, then, pass the programme over; let them share
it with the Brute.
And then while the band is playing we who’re sick
of it, you see,
Will sit down and take a spell-oh and just watch
the circus gee!
N.S.XV.
THE SNAKE.


DISORDERS OF THE MIDDLE-AGED MAN.
After the age of fifty even the most healthy
of men find it necessary to make some changes
in their methods of life. They can no longer
eat and drink whatever fancy dictates, and
they require regular hours of rest and sleep.
Some little weakness begins to develop. It
may be dyspepsia in one of its multifarious
forms ; gout, or some uric acid disorder ; or,
worst of all, a nervous breakdown. What-
ever form the disorder assumes, it comes so
gradually that it is oftentimes well advanced
before the busy man realises its significance.
In all modern works on medicine, one fact
is made abundantly clear —that nearly all
disorders of this kind have their origin in the
digestive area. It is too wide a subject to
discuss here, but broadly speaking, we poison
ourselves by absorption froih the intestinal
tract. It follows that if the digestive organs
could be kept in a healthy condition to
perform their functions naturally, many of
the worst disorders of middle age might be
avoided. The seat of the most serious of
these disorders lies in the intestines, and
therefore ordinary digestive remedies are of
no avail because they do not reach the
intestines at all. The most useful, all-round
remedy in these intestinal cases is petroleum,
because, unlike animal oil, it passes through
the stomach unchanged, and exercises its
soothing, lubricating disinfectant action
directly upon the intestines.
. The original and standard preparation of
petroleum for internal use is Angier’s Emul-
sion. In this preparation the petroleum is
purified by a special process, and combined
with hypophosphites in the form of a perfect
emulsion that is pleasant to the palate and
acceptable to the most delicate stomach.
Apart from its soothing, healing properties,
Angier’s Emulsion exerts a marked tonic,
invigorating influence, which makes it of value
in a wide variety of disorders. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Special vSHIRT Clearance
Usually 5/9 —7/6; Now 4/6 each.
Oddments in smart Fashion Shirts selected during stock-
taking are being cleared at 4/6 each. This special clearance
of smart-patterned designs is to make room for incoming
Spring-Summer stock.
Very distinctive patterns offering in TROPO-CORD, CREPE,
OXFORD, ZEPHYR and CAMBRIC styles, with linen neck-
bands and soft or stiff cuffs. It is advisable to order at
once—the demand is brisk. Please mention preference and
the size of your linen collar.
Catalogue of Men’s Wear on request.
r
A
PEAPES (D. CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters, 309-311 Georg'e Street, Sydney
Melbourne’s old cold-water landmark,
lankard’s Temperance Hotel, in Lonsdalc-
street, is to go at last. In 1553 John F.
Tankard took his short, bow legs and bis
aige, handsome wife to a “temperance board-
-o Use \ n Lonsdale-street east, and pre-
en«Lm°!ed west alon S the same street to
hiiabn wbere > for close on 60 years, the
aw? 1 sh^ S Sco nce . been carried on. In
ov ember, 1837, this property was first sold,
e coiner for £4l to Charles Howard, and
the next lot by H. Elmes for £3B. Twelve
months ago Ham and Co. offered the hotel
p operty for sale, but the reserve was not
VQr.AA ow a hig leather firm has given
ffcOUU tor it, with the intention of demolish-
ing the old cold-water house and erecting
warehouse and show rooms. The price pans
out about £129 per foot.
* * »
In the Warden’s Court at Ballarat (Vic.)
recently, a male citizen aged one year and
mi i mon ths was charged with being in
illegal occupation of certain State lands,
f. nd to get out. This despite the fact
that defendant held a proper miner’s right,
fr P e S s > and was proceeding to fence
olt a block which included right of easement
for certain parties. That is to say, lie hold
1 right, and his father was doing the rest
) volb- The Law declined to recognise
the father in the matter, on the ground that
the fact of his being the father didn’t qua-
him to mine on the alleged behalf
of the infant. The summons had to be served
on the fragmentary defendant personally.
And there are still some optimists who deny
that the Law is a humorless ass !
* * * *
It moves. Wellington (M.L.) Hospital
and Charitable Aid Board, having blown
aside the veil that criminal prudery has
thrown over syphilis and its kindred horrors,
has hurriedly started to clean things up.
Amongst other means to a desirable end are
(1) lectures by doctors to schools, universi-
ties, young men’s and women’s associations,
the defence trainees, passengers and crews of
ships when a ship’s doctor is carried and
the co. will give permission; (2) an appeal
to the Education Department to make the
subject of sex physiology compulsory on the
syllabus for teachers’ examinations; (3)
facilities at the hospital and its dispensaries
for the treatment of patients suffering from
venereal diseases; (4) the Government and
hospital boards in M.L. to be asked to
give all the co-operation they have concealed
about them in the crusade. This commend-
able programme, unfortunately, lacks the
AT THE TANGO.
“When do you men arrive at the years of
discretion? ”
“ When we're too young to die and too old to
have any more fun."
most important weapon for the attack on
society’s most dreadful curse—that is, com-
pulsory notification of its whereabouts. But,
considering Maoriland is what it is, the won-
der is that the proposals are so extensive and
so sensibly unashamed.
“10-2-4” sets it down to plain wowserism:
The Wee Jasper murder and suicide, which
occurred in N. S. Wales last week, gave an
insight into the queer workings of the Puritan mind.
Young Mcßean and a servant-girl at the homestead
had “sinned.” Also, according to her story, “some-
thing had happened.” She naturally wanted him to
marry her. He was afraid that, if he did, his father
would suspect the epoch-marking offence of which
they had been guilty. He accordingly first shot her,
and then himself. An ordinary youth, much less a
man of 35 as Norman Mcßean was, would have gone
to his parent, without any particular qualms, men-
tioned the error into which he and the girl had
fallen, and inquired cheerfully what had better be
done about it. The father, recognising that such
mishaps are by no means rare in the case of impul-
sive youth, would have maintained a judicious calm.
In Scotland, which is, presumably, the Mcßean
family’s land of origin, it is a recognised custom, in
many country parts, for the lady to be “ruined” as
a preliminary to wedlock. There are several good
points about this convention —for example, it obvi-
ates the anomaly of a childless marriage. Had the
Mcßeans been so constituted as to be able to take
a comparatively innocuous moral lapse in a philoso-
phic spirit, the only outcomes of the “sin” of Nor-
man Mcßean and Gertrude McAlister would have been
a wedding and an addition to the population.
* * » *
Tommy Walker, Attorney-General of
Westralia, is a humane man, but he has a
tendency to be humane at other people’s
expense. Some three years ago a Westra-
lia n criminal of the sexual-maniac type got
a life sentence for an outrage on a girl aged
10. lie wasn’t executed, for he seemed to
be hardly responsible ; he was simply ordered
to be bottled up on the ground that he was
wholly unfit to be at large. But after he
had done three years’ confinement a Salva-
tion Army man assured Attorney-General
Tommy Walker that he had reformed. It
is hard to see how a man with his particular
craze could do other than reform in prison,
just as a forger reforms on a desert island
or a false coiner retires from business when
he is a castaway on a raft. Anyhow Tommy
Walker released the sexual maniac, but,
apparently not regarding him as fit to be at
large in Perth, helped him along to Mel-
bourne. Thereby T. Walker did a great
deed by inadvertence, for he roused John
Murray to fury, and John Murray took more
healthy exercise in two minutes of denuncia-
tion than lie usually takes in a year. It was
a silly and low-down deed on the part of
Walker, and the Victorian small girl had
better take her gun with her to school until
that person’s exported prot<sg6 is back in
gaol, or in the mental hospital.
* * * *
“N. or M.” forwards a pub and sundries:
Hobart’s Commercial Bank of Tasmania, which has
long threatened to overflow its boundaries, will
shortly engulf not
only the “old guard
house’’ next door, now
occupied by the Tour-
ist Bureau, but also
the All Nations pub
at the corner of Col-
lins and Elizabeth
streets, which was
“H o b a r t Town’s”
G.P.O. from 1836 to
1865, superseding the
little old building in
Murray-street, a por-
tion of which is still
standing—near the
Hotel Arcadia. As an
hotel the All Nations
became very popular,
its palmiest days
being those under
John Davern, when
the cosmopolitan con-
gregation made inter-
esting unwritten his-
tory. About two years
ago the whole corner
property (which is
one of the most valu-
able sites in the city)
was put up for sale,
but withdrawn at
£24,700. The price
of the hotel and shop
adjoining to the Com-
mercial Bank was
£14,000. The frans-
fer of the property has called
up reminiscences of postal
conditions in the ’40’s, when
one mail to Port Phillip, of
which record has been kept,
consisted of three letters.
Some of the postal messengers
were unable to read or write,
and letters percolated through
devious channels to their des-
tinations. For instance, in ’43
a resident of Geelong for-
warded two letters to the postmaster in Hobart,
enclosing 10s. for postage, and accompanied the
luggage and donation by a note stating that he was
sending them via Hobart, as there was no boat
leaving Port Phillip to England for some time.
The Tribute of “ Jeames” : The Maoriland
Free Lance published one of those items
(4/6/T4) which makes me proud that I
have spent half a lifetime in the service of
the British nobility. That admirable journal
told how “Lady Liverpool went unaccom-
panied” ( unaccompanied , mark, ye levelling
Socialistic hounds !) “to see her housekeeper,
who was an inmate of the Wellington Public
Hospital.”
It was a Sunday afternoon, and as only a limited
number of visitors are admitted at once, probably
her Excellency had to await her turn along with the
hundreds of others. She chatted quietly to her house-
keeper, and no one suspected her presence. How
TOO TERRIBLE FOR WORDS.
HE (describing drowning sensation): “And
when I came up for the third time all my
past life came before me.”
SHE: “ Oh! HOE HORRIBLE.”
many Wellington ladies would go to the trouble and
inconvenience of joining the plebeian throng on visi-
tors’ day at the hospital to call on a sick servant?
What a picture it presents! It may be that
Lady Liverpool waited her turn. The possi-
bilities are that she did not barge in like a
heavyweight footballer, and hurl the waiting
hundreds aside, in an unscrupulous attempt
to get at her housekeeper first. Arrived at
the bedside, all the evidence goes to show
that she refrained from shrieking,
yelling or emitting cat calls. She did not
bellow in the afflicted woman’s ear. She
chatted quietly. How many commoners
would behave in this reasonable, self-effacing
fashion? Very few, I make bold to say.
I have bitter memories of a few months spent
in service with such people as I conceive the
aristocracy of Wellington to be. Though I
was second footman at the time, the
family refused to let me go hunting. Hugh
McCrae has immortalised this experience in
“A Hunting Morn.” Bulletin readers will
remember the lines :
Solitary by the table,
Drinking ale for all he’s able,
Sitteth Jeames in reverie
While the bugles ring with glee.
Horns blowing , October flowing,
They are all a-hunting going;
All. . . .except poor Mr. jeames !
Irritated by the scurvy conduct of these up-
starts, both Martin Luther and I vindi-
cated the honor of South Hackney (London)
by getting hopelessly stunned, and we were
forthwith discharged. How different had
we been in the employ of the Liverpool
family! I can imagine his Lordship saying
genially: “Martin, Jeames, you are a rotten
pair of riders, but take my best hunters and
break their necks if you like. Never let it
be said that a British nobleman was igno-
rant of the proper way to treat his servants.”
It has been left for a humble little M.L.
weekly to discover that the true democratic
spirit is the exclusive attribute of the Vere
de Vere caste. The worker’s best friend is
not, as has been assumed in the past, his
mother, but the House of Lords. Dustmen,
spurned by haughty trades unionists, have
begun to turn for sympathetic social inter-
course to dukes—and not in vain. Verily
a salutary lesson for the intolerant nollesse
of places like Wellington (M.L.), Bourke
(N.S.W.), Coogee, Manly Beach and so on.
“Six-and-Eight” :
The story of “Billy
T.” (B. 4/6/T4)
about the Scotch-
man who wouldn’t
buy a safety razor
because it w'ould be
useless if some time
he wanted to cut his
throat, reminds me
of another person
with an eye to
contingencies. A
brother-shark tells
the yarn. The client
was a well-to-do
sharebroker, about
to marry a charm-
ing girl, and my
friend was drawing
the marriage settle-
ment. They had
arranged details of
the handsome sum
the bridegroom vrz.3
settling on her.
“There’s just one
thing,” he said,
thoughtfully. “Is it
hers under all cir-
cumstances? Sup-
pose she ran away
with another fel-
low? Should I lose
the money too?”
My friend couldn’t
afford to lose a
good client by tell-
ing him just what
he thought of his
client’s ideas about
his bride. So my
friend merely said
that it was a.v a
matter of arrange-
ment, and that, in
the document about
to be sent to her to
read over, a clause
could easily be in-
serted showing
plainly how much
she would be lined
if she proved un-
faithful to her mar-
riage vows. Some-
how he was not
game to have his
speculations on the
subject set down in
black and white like that, and the matter
dropped. But it shows what an imagina-
tion some people have.
“T. 0.1.”: The Australian Historical So-
ciety is developing snobbery. It now ad-
vertises itself as being under the patronage
of “His Excellency the Governor-General
and the Right Honorables Lord Denman and
the Earl of Dudley.” A society which aims
at examining Australian history should need
no patronage from such birds of passage as
the G.-G.’s of the Commonwealth. If it
must have “patrons,” let them be Austra-
lians, who have done something either to
make Australian history or to promote the
study of it.
MONARCHY ON THE DEFENSIVE.
A Suffragette threw a rubber ball containing a
message into the lap of the Queen, who laughingly
brushed it aside. Tennis has become fashionable at
the Palace, and Princess is taking lessc[?]
daily.— Recent cables.
Continuous practice in repelling attacks by
ball and bomb , and deposed Earopean royallies
of the future will be assured a well-buttered
crust by music-’all appearances.


THE DISQUALIFIED ANIMAL.
TORY AND FREETRADER PRESS: “No! Don’t you dare wake that horrid brute. Me an’ me ’usband don’t like the looks of ’im awake.”


THE PICTURES ON THE WALL—WILLIE’S
Mr. Watt, in returning thanks for the presentation of a portrait of himself (in oils), said that because of th e esteem and appresiation which the presentation portrait repre
sented, and because of the men behind the gift, he would take it into his home, and value it for all time.-Melbourne paper.


ZANETIC PENDUPLICATE BOOKS with pat.
writing board ensure perfection in copying and dis-
tinctiveness in what is dispatched to the addressee.
Is. book sent post free for 12 stamps to Zanetic
'VVforks, Leicester, England.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTI/E.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINgCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
Vor
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 2
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
l ■ SJ
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Two Sydney artists dropped out of the
picture last week. The shy, industrious
Piguenit was the better known of them.
Most visitors to the Sydney Gallery will best
remember him by his ambitious picture of
Kosciusko. In early life he was in the
Tasmanian Lands Department, and mixed
art and datum pegs until he pulled up the
pegs and gave himself wholly to art, which
he followed thereafter in great contentment
for 42 years. The other was Albert Hanson,
who promised to do great things, especially
in water-colors, but acquired a disconcerting
brand of religion and thereby spoiled his
career as a painter.
SPEAKED O'LOUGHLIN, OF S.A.
ASSEMBLY.
The estate of “snake expert” Fred Fox,
who got into a fatal argument with a cobra
in India recently, panned out at £152, and
goes by will to his widow and two children.
According to an affidavit filed by Mrs. Fox
in N.S.W. Probate Court her husband had a
one-third interest with Kenneth David
Chambers and Sidney Stephen Hudson in a
snake-bite antidote, and Hudson had sup-
plied much cash to enable Fox to demon-
strate the cure in India. She set no value
on the testator’s interest in the syndicate;
and the Probate officer let it go at that.
From the ledger desk :
Apropos the late John Frazer, M.L.C., of Svdnev
whose widow died the other day. Frazer’s first nart-
ner was William Manson, who joined him in 1859
and died in 1869. Manson was the organising and
fi i^n C nnn ? e i llus , of , th . e Frazer had made
430,000 before he took Manson in. Manson put in
brains but no money. When he died, in 1869, the
fl ,™ “ ma ' ]e nett profits in less than 10 years of
430,000, of which one-third went to Manson’s
estate. Manson s widow forfeited this fortune all
but an income of 4 500 a year—to marry a worthless
doctor, whom she divorced 20 years ago. William
Manson built, or left the money to build, St. George’s
Scotchbyterian Church in Castlereagh-street, one of
the finest pieces of church architecture in Svdnev
His name was given to one of John Frazer’s clipper
schooners, the William Manson, which carried til
chllia to Sydney 30 and 40 years ago. Frazer
left tons of freehold property in Sydney, which has
quadrupled in value since his death.
The decision of the British Secretary of
State in the case of Governor Ellison Mac-
artney of Tasmania, is more intelligible
than that come to in the case of Eardley
Wilmot, another Tasmanian Governor, who
ruled when Gladstone was at the Colonial
Office. Gladstone shifted Wilmot; but in
characteristic fashion obscured the notifica-
tion in a cloud of verbiage. He was “in-
toxicated with the exuberance of his own
verbosity,” as Disraeli put it. What he
wanted was that Wilmot should clear out
of the Government service without asking
any questions, but the document was so cir-
cumlocutory that Wilmot thought he could
secure a transfer to some other dependency.
He had been Governor for three years, and
offered to explain the charges that the Speck
made against him. Many people took Wil-
mot’s part, and the accused baronet was
induced to put up a fight. He would not
leave Tasmania, holding that his witnesses
resided there, and that if Gladstone got him
in England without witnesses he would have
no chance of fair play. However, the trouble
was ended by Wilmot’s death in Hobart in
1847.
THE SELECTED CANDIDATE.
It may be that each of the selected six is not just
that sort of Ideal representative that an elector would
have chosen had he been the final arbiter. No
group of men is ever ideal. But it is just in this
capacity of the individual on occasions to sink his
individuality for the common good that the strength
of any political organisation lies.—S. M. HERALD.
MRS. PARTY DELECTION: “'Ere you are;
’ Ere's a ’ usban ’ I ’ave picked hout for
yer. ’E ain’t wal YES might call pritty ,
but has I've gorn ter the trubble t' pick
'im for yer, hits yer dooty ter luv 'im."
A Hebrew philanthropist went over in
Melbourne last week, aged 88 years. He
was one of the Kronheimers, and had lived
in Melbourne for 60 years. In 1854 Julius
Kronlieirner established himself as a tobacco-
nist in Flinders-street, near Queen-street.
In 1860 he was in Bourke-street, near the
Bull and Mouth. By the mid-’7o’s the firm
had grown till it included Joseph (the re-
cently deceased), Julius and Max, with
Charles Franken. They were then in Queen-
street. Some 14 years ago, when many
tobacco interests were amalgamated, W. D.
and H. O. Wills took over the business, and
Joseph remained in it only as an influential
shareholder. His benevolence was wide-
spread. To Jerusalem he sent large sums
towards the upkeep of an orphanage, while
the Ivronheimer wing at the Austin Hospital
is one of the many things to which his money
was devoted in the country where it was
made.
“Keridon”: The magnificent Springthorpe
mausoleum at Kew cemetery, Melbourne,
•which cost some £lO,OOO to erect, has its
splendid statuary enclosed in a huge glass
case for protection. But the dust has
•covered the glass with grime, and the top
of the case is black with dirt and fouled by
birds. In short, the finest monument in
Australia is rendered tawdry for want of a
little attention. A curious coincidence re-
corded is that Mrs. Springthorpe was born
January 26, 1867, married same date 1887,
and buried ditto 1597.
There is trouble ahead for G. W. It.
McDonald, the young man who surprised
everybody but himself by running for Bin-
gera at the N.S.W. Assembly election four
years ago and beating one of Wade’s Min-
isters. McDonald, who had been in the Jus-
tice Department, had pulled out from there
and set himself ,up as a land agent in Tam-
worth; and” when lie took his seat as a
Labor member he wasn’t disposed to let his
knowledge of land laws run to waste. On
the reshuffle of portfolios he had hopes that
the Lands would go liis way: but Trefle
bagged it easily, and then McDonald pushed
his land-agency business harder than ever.
Through sheer bad luck it was the squatter
who hired him in a recent Land Board case;
and then the row started. According to the
Labor platform a Labor member may not
be a land agent, and this prohibition has
been solemnly shaken in McDonald’s face.
To which McDonald’s reply to the P.L.L.
Conference will no doubt be that so much
of the Labor platform has been thrown over-
board that another 10 or 12 planks can’t
possibly matter. Also he may add that two
notable Labor members are being inquired
into, not for plain land agency, but on the
allegation that they took money for breathing
into the Labor Government’s ear, and that
the Labor Government is said to have allowed
its ear to be breathed into.
A link with the roaring days of
the Otago (M.L.) goldfields
snapped the other day when
Julius Wenkheim died. He
reached M.L. in 1859, and when
gold was discovered in the pro-
vince (1861) he rushed with his
temporary store from one diggings
to another. Later on he opened
the first store at Kingston, on
Lake Wakatipu, but eventually
moved up the lake to Queenstown,
the present tourist township,
where he carried on a general
business for many years. He
was unmarried, and all his rela-
tives are in Germany. Thither
goes a pile of cash big enough to
keep them in polonies for the rest
of their lives.
“Iron Pot”: The genuine old Vandemo-
nian spirit must surely be. losing its punch
in the Flyspeck. The appointment of Chief
Justice Nicholls will come as a real shock
to the diehards of the Tas. Leg. Council and
the smoking-room of the Tasmanian Club.
The new C.J. is young, keen, brilliantly
learned, disrespectful by nature and train-
ing to all established Vandemonian ideals,
and a Victorian by birth. lie is a son of
the late editor of the Mercury, and has
inherited a strong strain of the fighting pro-
clivities which led his father to become an
active Chartist in his hot youth, and, later,
to draAv up the miners’ petition which pre-
faced the Eureka riots at Ballarat. Nicholls,
jun., arrived in Tasmania as a boy, and first
wrested a living from a hard world as a clerk
in the Hobart Post Office. There was a con-
siderable string of young Nichollses, so when
the future C.J. decided for the law, he had
to do his own battling. The struggle ended
with a brilliant LL.B. degree at the • Tas-
manian University, and partnership with
another promising graduate. A legal prac-
tice grew up rapidly, but politics attracted
him, and after a fighting election he was re-
turned for a Hobart district. The trouble-
ridden Propsting Government took him in
as Attorney-General. Later he beat Elliot
Lewis in a bitterly contested election, during
which the Mercury, under the paternal
guidance, dealt it out to him so hot and
heavy that quite a decent majority was built
up from amongst the people who didn’t alto-
gether believe in his politics, but wanted to
see him get fair play. His appointment to
the Bench in 1909 was regarded as a reck-
less and ill-advised proceeding bv all (rood
Vandemonians, but the Jacky Evans-Dor-
mouse Lewis Government of the day knew
what it was about. Nicholls in opposition
was an ugly proposition at all times, whilst
his brilliancy as a barrister brought the
hearty support of the lawyers to his eleva-
tion. Physically, the new C.J. is a -credit to
Australia, and he owns an athletic record
which should make the Court respected even
when it is out of its wig. Some 13st. of
hard bone and wire-rope muscle, distributed
over six feet-odd of length, make him about
as tough a proposition as exists in the law.
He is a crack rifle shot, captained the Metro-
politan Rifle Club for several successful
years, and was one of the Tas. representa-
tives at the last big meetings in Sydney and
Brisbane.
G. T. Poole goes to London as chairman
of the international Board which is to select
the prize designs for the £1,500,000 Parlia-
ment Plouse at Dryberra. His knowledge
of foreign languages and the fact that he
wears a single eyeglass probably helped
him to the job, although he has other quali-
fications. He came from the Cold Country
about a quarter of a century ago as director
of Public Works in Westralia, and held the
position until it was decided to hand the
control of the Department over to a Min-
ister. Poole, with his eyeglass on the port-
folio, stood for Claremont, but was badly
walloped, the free and independent electors
not liking his habit of remarking “Haw.”
Then he was made chief Government archi-
tect; but later he started in private prac-
tice and became president of the Westralian
Institute of Architects. He has a sound
knowledge of the artistic side of his profes-
sion, and has been a frequent exhibitor of
cathedral and palace interiors at the W.A.
Art Society’s shows.
“Jeames’ ” item :
Earl Russell, who lias just been divorced for the
second time, is everything that is unusual in one in
his position. Rich, a grandson of the famous Lord
John Russell, and a kinsman of the Duke of Bedford,
he is nevertheless an extreme Radical. Also, he is
an atheist, and proud of it. He is both a barrister
and an electrical engineer, and has worked tire-
lessly all his life at the giant job of bettering the
condition of the British masses. He was for years a
member of the London County Council. I was in
service down Maidenhead way when his first divorce
suit was raging. The pretty young countess who had
been Miss Mable Scott was much in evidence on the
river in those days. She was the last who should
have married a stout and serious social reformer.
Unusual bitterness was introduced into the contest,
as they say at the Sydney Stadium, more especially
on tne lady’s side, and the most hideous charges were
hurled at the unhappy Russell. However, similar
charges were aimed at everv other male who got
into any sort of trouble in England in those black
days, and they did Russell no particular harm. What
the suit did establish was that he was an eccentric
and a bore and an impossible companion for a con-
ventional-minded woman. Similarly, doubtless', a
conventional-minded woman would weary him to
death, which is, in all likelihood, the explanation of
whv he has now deserted the lady who was Miss
Cooke. Some men ought not to marry unless they
can manage to fall in love with a statue which
won’t come to life, as Pygmalion’s best marble girl
did.
CHARLIE RUSSON, M.L.C.,
OF TASMANIA.
Captain Atwood, of the wrecked Elinga-
mite, who fought doggedly for so many years
for a full inquiry into that disaster, and
was triumphantly acquitted at last when
the Admiralty discovered thajt the Three
Kings islets (on which the vessel struck)
were wrongly chartered, is holding up his
head in the profession again. He has just
hung out his signboard as a marine sur-
veyor, etc., in Wellington (M.L.).
THE INVIDIOUS DRESS-REPORTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Attired in the full-dress uniform of his office, heavy
silver epaulettes, decorations and braid on a dress of
navy blue, and gaily plumed hat, the Governor-
General of the Commonwealth stepped smartly out of
the Melbourne express. Captain J. Anstruther,
A.D.C., easily recognisable by his smart blue dress
and brightly-polished helmet of the Carabiniers, one
of the smartest regiments in the British Army, was
there, and also Captain Curwen, A.D.C., attired in
full-dress staff uniform. —From Sydney Telegraph
report of a recent function.
Right beauteous were the vice-regalities.
None questions that. Yet equally as fair
The loyal burghers of the Mother State,
Who, though they donned their best to greet his Ex.,
Were, as regards their costumes, simply spurned.
Why were the millinery experts blind
In presence of the splendors of oiy Mayor,
Who, swathed in furs and bright with jangling chains,
Bestrode the platform like some savage king?
AVhy were they dumb anent the gorgeous Wright,
Whose shapely legs, enwrapt in sable cloth,
And gleaming waist-band, and astounding hat
Struck Admiration speechless in Her tracks?
There, to the owner of the Seeing Eye,
Were visible such sights as Speaker Meagher,
The arbiter of fashion for Bondi,
And Sandy, termed by City Councillors
“The Brummel of the Rocks,” Sandy whose boots
Of sempiternally resplendent kid,
And nobby neckties —faultless “ready-mades”—
Are known from Darling Harbor to the Quay.
Wade, Holman, Cann, all exquisitely garbed;
And Henley, dropping aspirates like bricks,
All these were there —yet all ignored were,
So far as their confections were concerned.
’Twere possible to go on in this strain
For weeks. The blank verse habit being one
That almost any idiot can get,
But I must cease—remarking merely this:
Such conduct is as mad as it is harsh.
To use the Bard’s imperishable phrase:
Slighters of public idols may depend
On coming to a nasty, sticky end.
N.S.W.
D’ORSAY.
ARCHDALE PARKHILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liberal Association of N.S.W. —Archdale Parkhill,
sec., 109 Pitt-street.
—The Good 800k —otherwise Sydney Directory.
There is a name that reeks of sylvan peace,
And tranquil English landscapes in it drowse.
Come! leave the. stewpots filled with Lib’ral grease,
And walk with me in meadows gemmed with
cows.
Here on the stile, down by the chatt’ring brook,
Come sit awhile with me and gaze your fill.
From where we are, in one long, sweeping look,
We see an Arch, a Dale, a Park, a Hill!
Seen on the clamorous page in black and white,
It straight transports me, and I am alone —
Lost in deep peace and dim midsummer light,
Amid the stuff beloved by Marcus Stone.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


nmrm
ft
0o
*r;
'• '
SPRING.
THE last touch of Winter heralds the advent of Spring and the new styles which we have
embodied in our Spring Austral Suits. Our Spring Suitings are being opened up-
both from the leading mills of England, Scotland and Ireland, as well as our old friends,
Vicars of Marrickville. We quote :
Austral Suits to Measure from £3/3/=
SEND FOR OUR GENERAL CATALOGUE and “OUR HUNDRED BEST PATTERNS.”
GOW 1 N G BR 0 S.,
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS” *
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7, 9,11,13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


High-Class
Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let ns have your enquiries.
“ INGECO ”
FARM ENGINES
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c Send for Catalogue.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank: —
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
June, 1906.. £23,421 £11,421 £9,000 £51,000
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 12,000 "55,000
June, 1907.. 34,783 18,783 12,000 59,000
Dec., 1907.. 43,606 23,606 15,000 64,000
43,482 23,432 15,000 69,000
Dec., 19087. 43,737 18,737 20,000 74,000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 20,000 79,000
Dee., 1909.. 44,432 19,432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
Dec., 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275 30,000 100.000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36,159 118.00 U
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 36.179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 36,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154,000
June, 1914.. 50,090 38,090 166,000
“Towards repaying private depositors”—that is the
pivot on which the early future turns. When the
Q-N. got into trouble in the early ’9o’s it was
arranged that one-fourth of the debt to private
depositors should be payable out of profits before
the shareholders got a bean. Following shows the
progress in the removal of that dead horse:—
Current Repaid Balance
Profits to in
Appropriated. Depositors. Hand.
10 years to
Dec., 1907. . £153,000 2/6 in £=£129,849 £23,151
June, 1908.. 15,000 6d. in £= 25,969 12,182
Dec., 1908.. 20,000 32,182
June, 1909.. 20,000 9d. in £= 38,057 13,525
Dec., 1909.. 20,000 33,525
June, 1910.. 20,000 53,525
Dec., 1910.. 20,000 9d. in £ = 38,642 34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64,883
Dec., 1911.. 30.000 Is. in £= 51,527 43,356
June, 1912.. 36,159 6d. in £= 25,763 53,752
Dec., 1912.. 36,179 6d. in £= 25,762 64,169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £= 38,643 61.740
Dec., 1913.. 37,915 9d. in £= 38,162 61,493
June, 1914.. 38,090 9d. in £= 38,652 60,931
£512,557 8/9 in £=£451,626 £60,931
The next table shows, among other things, how much
of the old corpse remains to be got rid of: —
Dec.,’97. Dec..T3. June,T4.
Old debt to Government £1,833,327 £198,293 £86,098
Stock (fixed debt to
old depositors) . . 3,116,621 3,091,669 3,091,669
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,038,974 591,121 552,470
So it has taken nearly 17 years to provide for as
much trouble as still remains on hand; £512,557
has been provided and £552,470 remains owing.
But things have changed in those 17 years. For a
long while large sums were written off old over-valued
securities, whereas for the past 2J years it has not
been judged necessary to use up any -of the disclosed
profits in that way. Formerly, also, the debt to the
Government absorbed some more of the profits; but
a rearrangement was made, and that debt was pro-
vided for by p.n.’s running to 1921, only one of
which now remains unpaid. Thus far Bs. 9d. in the
£ has been wiped off the slate where the account
with the private depositors is kept, but there is
enough in hand to pay another Is. 3d. or thereabouts,
leaving 10s. to provide. Assuming that the bank
will go on paying off 9d. per half-year, the last of
the barrier between shareholders and dividends will
disappear in something under seven years. It is
much more likely that the time will be less rather
than greater. On present appearances it looks as
though at least two years might be whittled off it.
Nobody knows for certain what will happen when
the barrier is down. The chairman —without com-
mitting the directors to anything, of course—said the
dividends would be not less than 10 p.c. The share
capital not written off is £480,000, so 10 per cent,
per annum would call for only £24,000 a half-year;
and that would blot up less than half the present
disclosed profits. And it may be taken for granted
that general-manager Ralston isn’t stretching the
disclosed profits. To visible reserves he is putting
away £12,000 a half-year; but there are very good
grounds for believing that, like a wise man, he is
seizing the opportunity to snip off enough profits to
provide for all sorts of contingencies. Certainly,
Queensland being a place where contingencies have
sometimes a prodigious appetite, the management
may go on strengthening its internal reserves even
after the dividend period begins; and the disclosed
profits may therefore not swell visibly. Still, even
if they don’t swell at all, the present disclosed
profits would amply justify a 10 p.c. dividend.
Say the last of the old debt is paid off in five
years. By that time, if things go as they are going
now, there will be reserves of £286,000. Add capital,
and shareholders’ funds will then be £766,000 alto-
gether. Now, apart from the £3,091,669 of inter-
minable stock (representing part of the old deposits),
the new deposits on June 30 were £6,560,810, and
other liabilities (bills, etc.) £162,150. Suppose they
only stay where they are, the shareholders’ funds five
years hence will be £1 for every £9 owing to the
public (exclusive of interminable stock) ; and that
is not enough. Possibly the bank may be able to
produce from its hidden contingency fund a consider-
able sum to add to visible reserves. If it can’t do
that, then prudence will demand a prompt issue of
additional capital. And since the bank which goes
beyond 10 p.c. dividends is nowadays courting trouble,
and some at least of the Q.N. people know it, the
chances are that for any plums beyond 10 p.c. the
shareholders will have to look to new issues of
capital at par or thereabouts.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria:
Loss on
Profit on Property Total Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. Dividend, serves.
June, 1909.. £1897 £698 £1199 £37,214
Profit.
Dec., 1909.. 1700 1044 2744 39,958
June, 1910.. 1934 1328 3262 43,220
• - - Loss. >. •. _
Dec., 1910.. 3523 574 2949 46,169
Profit.
June, 1911.. 2404 747 3151 49,320
Capital returned, 12s. per share, reducing
it to £58,308.
(20 p.c.)
Dec., 1911.. 1165 2056 3221 £14,577 37,964
(6 p.c.)
June, 1912.. 859 2126 2985 1,749 39,200
Dec., 1912.. 1868 30 1898 1,749 39,349
Loss. (8 p c.)
June, 1913.. 2347 10 2337 2,332 39,354
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1913.. 2704 187 2891 2,679 39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39,584
Old foreclosed properties left in hand are now valued
at only £55. When these are disposed of, and
this probably will be by the end of the current half-
year, the co. will confine itself to collecting the
balance owing on sales and the interest on advances.
This job will fall on the Freeholds Assets Co. (Mel-
bourne), which a, few years • back bought practically
all the shares in this concern, paying 12s. apiece
I? r **? ern - further 2s. fid. was called up, making
• e s “ ares now 6d. paid. The present capital
is £76,452; and an idea of the bargain or other-
wise which the Freeholds Assets struck can be formed
from this table:—
June, ’l3. June, ’l4.
Advances on mortgage . . . . £9,212 £27,443
Balances owing on property sold 50,773 44,999
Freeholds 893 55
Gash, debentures, etc 39,493 46,541
Total assets £100;374' 4119,033
Liabilities . . .. . . 30 30
Net assets £100,344 £119,008
There are 145,770 shares, so the net assets were on
June 30 worth 16s. 3d. per share, provided assets
are worth. 20s. in the £. And they ought to be
pretty right. The bulk of the mortgages are quite
fresh; and presumably the balances on properties
sold are- to be reduced by instalments, so that the
longer the present good conditions.of trade, etc., last,
the more assured will be the co.’s position with
regard to that item. Like most pf the concerns
which have gone into this branch of the undertakery
business, the Freehold Assets Co. looks as though it
was going to do very well out of this deal. As for
the old shareholders—but let’s not scarify a sore
until some good can come of it.
* * » *
Maoriland Public Trust Office. —It’s
a dreadful piece of Socialism, .of course; still, as it
arrived before there was such a thing as a Labor
party in Parliament, Maoriland views this office, not
as a ravenous tiger, but as a very desirable institu-
tion —something like the post-office and Savings.
Bank. The Office discharges all the duties that may
by will or deed be imposed upon a private executor,
trustee, attorney or Where there is no will,
the Public Trustee may be appointed by the next-
of-kin to administer the estate. In cases where a
private executor , ha? been appointed, he may pass
the duties on to the Public Trustee. Mental patients’
estates are also managed, and the bid practice of
appointing a “committee” to do the .job has almost
died out in Maoriland. Being a public officer, of
. known capacity and with expert knowledge, whose
accounts are subject to rigorous audit, he is privi-
leged to do many things which a private trustee can
do only by order of a Court; and in this and a
score of other ways expense is saved to the benefi-
ciaries. Moreover, he has his public duties. He is
the trustee for the State as well as for the individual
iwho requisitions his services. To him Government
and municipal sinking funds are paid, and such things
as the coal and gold miners’ relief funds and the
teachers’ superannuation fund. At the end of the
last fiscal year (March, 1914) the Office had control
of the following:— /' '/.
Sinking funds (public) .. £2,408,338
Wills and'trust estates .. .. 1,789.260
Civil Service superannuations .. 1,177,430
Intestate, (estates 242,042
Mental patients’ estates .. .. 162,199
Other funps .. ~ .. .. 716,929
Total £6,446,198
At the end of the previous year the total was
£5,871,545. So far as what may be called private
business is concerned, the growth is shown here-
under :
1903. 1913. 1914.
Wills and trusts .. £867,049 £1,619,601 £1,739,260
Intestacies .. .. 75,392 211,495 242,042
Mental patients’ estates 41,470 180,857 162,199
In the ordinary sense the Office has no capital.
But while there is no proprietors’ money for which
it is expected to earn dividends, it has the whole
taxable value of the property of the State behind it.
Supposing in some mysterious way the Office became
a den of- thieves, and the Auditor-General and, his
staff joined in, and the trust funds were burgled to 1
the extent of £liooo,ooo, the State, in the last
resort, must make the loss gdod ; and, of course, with;
out turning a hair it could make good a loss whieli'
no private co. could look at. As for the private
trustee —well, he usually puts up no guarantee what-
ever. But the State Trust Office does more, or is
willing to do more, than guarantee that the principal
shall not be ■ pecked at by the embezzler or lost in
unauthorised speculation. Under certain conditions
it will do what no trustee co. or private trustee
known to The Bulletin will do; if the investment
of the trust funds is left to the Public Trustee’s dis-
cretion, the State guarantees not only the principal
but the interest return as well. The interest which
may be guaranteed on such funds is fixed by' the
Governor-in-CouncH from time to time. If the in-
terest on the investment doesn’t reach the amount
guaranteed, the Office has\to make it up. If there, is
a surplus, it 'is so much extra profit for the Office.
Last year £46,337 came in from this source.
The ordinary profits are derived from commissions
in the usual way. The charges are very moderate,
and as the business has increased they have been
reduced. The aim is merely to pay exes, and estab-
lish a reserve fund sufficient to protect clients.
Of late the department’s profits have been excep-
tionally good; and, -though it is desirable that the
reserves should be stronger than they are at present,
it is obvious that the time is near when further-
concessions may be made to clients and beneficiaries.
In the past three years the profits put by have
totalled £57,001, in addition to £28,229 spent on
office premises-' and a considerable further sum on
furniture, etc. As at March 31 the assurance, fluctu-
ation and other reserves totalled £120,125, while
another £92,775 of profits had been invested,
mostly in premises. The investment of both the
reserves and the trust funds is largely in mortgages.
Of the total capital of £6,446,198 mortgages repre-
sent £4,983,666. The balance is mainly in public
securities, deposits and cash.
* * * »
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1907 ..£4432 6 p.c. = £2700 £1732 £28,558
Dec., 1907 .. 4271 6 „„ 2700 1571 30,129
June, 1908 .. 4892 8 „ „ 3600 1292 31,421
Dec., 1908 .. 4657 6 „ 2700 1957 33,378
June, 1909 .. 5965 6 „ 2700 3265 36,643
Dec., 1909 .. 4523 8 „ „ 3600 923 37,566
June, 1910 .. 4994 7 „ „ 3150 1844 39,410
Dec., 1910 .. 5659 7 „ „ 3150 2509 41,919
June, 1911 .. 5416 9 „ „ 4050 1366' 43,285
Dec., 1911 .. 5742 7 „„ 3150 2592 45,877
June, 1912 .. 5015 7 „ „ 3150 1865 47,742
Dec., 1912 .. 6366 9 „ „ 4050 2316 50,058
.Tune, 1913 .. 5485 7 ~ ~ 3150 2335 52,393
Dec., 1913 . . 5959 8 „ „ 3600 2359 54,752
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,252
June, 1914 . . 9738 10 p.c. == 4500 5238 57,490
Written off premises, £5OOO .. 52,490
For the past half-year a 10 p.c. bongs to staff has
clipped £1267 off the profits; yet the latter are
still far ahead of the average. Possibly the co. has
had a cleaning-up, in view of the early issue of
another 40,000 shares at 355., including ss. pre-
mium. From past post-mortems it has been made
clear 'that the co. habitually puts by to an inner
reserve fund a large proportion of the corpus commis-
sion receivable on an • estate which comes into its
hands. A trustee co.’s income (apart from interest
on investments) is derived from (1) an annual com-
mission on the trust estate’s earnings; and (2) one
commission on the capital value of the estate. The
latter commission, according to the best practice—
which this co. adopts—is spread over the co.’s
income by small instalments throughout the period
which it is expected that the estate will be in
hand. Obviously in very many cases the co. doesn’t
know whether an estate will be 10 years in hand or
20; and if it runs out in 10, it follows that the
time will come when reserved corpus commissions
will fall into profit in a lump. Probably this is
what has happened; and in that case the big in-
crease in profits will not last. Still, an increase in
the normal rate of profits may be reasonably ex-
pected from the growth of the business. These
figures showing the value of estates in hand are
significant:—
June, 1904 £7,876,231
June, 1913 10,120,497
Dec., 1913 10,199,585
June, 1914 11,105,829
Further, the co.’s earnings from its own accumu-
lated profits must be advancing:—
1904. 1913. 1914.
Liquid assets .. '.. £57,083 £85,043 £95,257
Liabilities .. .. .. 15,211 Nil Nil
Surplus of liquid assets .. £41,872 £85,043 £95,257
And the co. owns the same Collins-street office freehold
now as it did in 1904; and, though that
is being written down, its capital and rental value
has no doubt increased. Altogether the co.’s accounts
leave a very pleasant taste in the mouth. The assets
are exceptionally solid, the security offered t 6 bene-
ficiaries under wills, etc., is very fine (and with
the increase of capital will be finer), and the splen-
,did growth of the business shows pretty (conclusively
that the co.’s services to clients are appreciated.
With the great experience and the specialised train-
ing and equipment and the security such companies
offer, the marvel is that the priyate trustee, who
offers no security and mostly has had no experience
or training whatever for the- job, gets a look-in at all.
**„ * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary .<oo. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-';,
ten (To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Oft', serves, serves.
Dec., ’06.. £972 Nil £972 £3972
June, ’07.. 874 Nil 874 4840
Dec., ’07.. 1200 24 p.c. = £6OO 600 5440
June, ’OB.. 1330 24 „ „ COO 730 0170
Dec., ’OB.. 1019 24 „ „ 600 1019 7195
June, ’09.. 1494 24 „ „ 600 894 8089
Dec., ’09.. 1444 24 „ „ 600 £5OO 344 8433-
June, ’lO.. 1429 24 „ „ 600 9000 262
Dec., ,’lO.. 1010 24 „ „ 000 1016 1278
June,’ll.. 777 24 „ „ COO 177 1455
Dec.-, ’ll.. 17.09 24 „ „ 600 706 403 1858
June, ’l2;. 1100 21 „ „ 600 350 150 2008
_ , Deficit.
Dec., ’12.. 1096 2} „ „ 600 2650 146
Reserves.
June, ’13.. 1580 24 „ „ 600 486 494 348
Dec.,"’l3.. 1775 24 „ „ 600 891 284 632
June, ’l4. . 1539 24 „ „ 600 450 489 1121
Till recently the co., which has a long lease of the
Melbourne Theatre Royal, made no assault on the
“leasehold” asset iii jts balance-sheet. That item
still stands at £33,900. Twelve mopths ago it was
£34,500. Provided the same amount is put by every
year and the interest is likewise invested, the capital
will be available in something solid when the lease
runs out somewhere near the middle of this cen-
tury. Under the terms of a sub-lease to J/ C.
Williamson, Ltd., which runs till 1928 and carries
increased rent from 1918 on, the sub-lessee pays for
all renewals and repairs, which will lighten this co.’s,
burden considerably. This table shows how its cash'
position has moved of lath:— .
•Dec., June, June,
1904. 1909.. 1914.
Liquid assets .. 7 £372 £3196
Liabilities " 13,038 2312 263
Excess liabilities ..£10,320 £1940
Surplus assets .. £2933
In 1904 the co. was officially required to reconstruct
the theatre, and the result was an overdraft of
£9775. This has now been paid back, and there
are surplus assets of £2933 ; but, meantime, the lease
has been running grift, and the value; of. (he leasehold
iasset therefore'4disiinishing, and a fcop'dj hajf of the
improvement is swAfiped by..this: ,Npw that the 'bill
for- repairs, is going to be it looks pretty
clear that, for. the' next 14. ye&fd ! at least!, besidps
paying a moderate dividend—perhaps a shade better
than it has bam doing so far—the co. will be able
to bank up a proper amount to the sinking fund,
and have a bit left over for the contingencies which
may arise at the expiration of the Williamson lease
in 1928.
* * * »
Swallow and Artell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of foodstuffs :
Re-
i Added serves
to Re- (Nomi-
April, Loss. Dividends. serves, nal).
1903 ... £4,097 Nil £41,024
1904 ... 15,420 , Nil 25,604
profits.
1905 .. 10,658 Nil • £10,658 36,262
1906 .. 12,140 14 p.c. = £1,824 10,316 46,578
1907 .. 12,209 24 „ „ 3,648 8,501 55,139
1908 .. 2,234 24 „ „ 3,648 53,725
1909 . . 9,696 24- „ „ 3,648 ' 6,048 59,773
1910 .. 12,167 3f „ „ 5,473 6,694 66,467
1911 .. 17,169 5-4 „ „ 8,209 8,960 75.427
1912 .. 24,454 6§ „ „ 10,034 14,4?0 89,847
1913 .. 15,769 74 „ ~ 11,214 4,555 94,402
1914 .. 27,727 9 „ „ 14,749 12,978 107,380
The reserves are described as nominal because of this
deplorable item among the assets in the balance-
sheet: “Original purchase at cost from the firm of
Swallow and Ariell of freehold lands, buildings,
machinery, plant, etc., including goodwill, £148,500.”
For 26 years this item has' been a fixture, so that,
apparently, the baking-tin and the wheelbarrow
which were worn out 20 years ago still figure as
assets representing part of the capital. It is bad
enough to keep goodwill in the balance-sheet for
26 years; if the connection is worth any-
thing now it is not because of anything the old firm
of Swallow and Ariell did, but because of the virtues
of the present co. during the past quarter-century.
The .goodwill may be worth quite as much now as it
was 26 years ago; but that is not the point. It
isn’t the same goodwill; the value of the old goodwill
has been gradually lost, and a new one has been
created. And as the value of the old goodwill was
lost it should have been written off. How much of
the £148,500 is represented by intangible goodwill
and how much more by plant which has been long
since scrapped it is impossible to say. Therefore it
is not possible to say how much of the reserves are
true reserves, and how much are intangible and unreal.
It passes understanding Why the item is retained in
its old form in the balance-sheet. One could under-
stand why if some cos. did it—cos. that have to
dress their shop-windows to make any show at all.
But Swallow and Ariell isn’t that kind of co. The
remarkable thing is that depreciation is written off
additions: —•
Additions to properties, buildings, machinery,
plant, etc., as per last balance-sheet . . £61,486
Allowance for total depreciation, less addi-
tional [additions] at cost .. .... 54
Balance-sheet entry .. ~.. £61,432
Of course, that gives you absolutely no Idea-of what,
profit was written off against depreciation last year.
If the year’s additions cost £lO,OOO, then the amount
struck off was £10,054. .But if the additions were
only £5OO, then only £554 was written off. Fur-
ther, depreciation may possibly be allowed for on
all assets, original and otherwise; but in that case
the form of the accounts is worse than ever
. • . . # - - " V - t ->
During the year 29,480 pref. shares were issued;
these carry, like 20,400 issued in the previous year,
6 p.c. pref., and are entitled to come in along with
the 145,953 ordinaries for any div. paid in excess of
6 p.c. The past year having been exceptionally pro-
Stable, 9 p.c. is paid—the most for 20 years at least.
The co.’s dividend record has been very erratic. The
table shows some of the unevenness; and back
beyond that it was the same. Thus in 1896-7-8, when
in one year a dividend was passed altogether, the
average was only l£ p.c. Still the co., having un-
questionably some reserves, and having even more
unquestionably added very much to its unappropri-
ated profits during the past seven years, is in a much
better position to earn dividends than it used to be.
On the other hand, it has to be remembered that,
good times or bad, the co. is now committed to
pay 6 p.c. on nearly £50,000 of new capital, for
the 6 p.c. preference is cumulative.
Judging by some of the figures in the next table,
the turnover has been growing rapidly:—
Liabilities.
1905. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Capital . . £145,953 £145,953 £157,578 £174,688
Overdraft . . 46,575 70,343 67,061 36,151
Mortgages, etc. 16,512 12,080 12,080 11,000
Other debts.. 11,844 39,694 41,815 47,949
Assets.
Original purchase 148,500 148,500 148,500 148,500
Other properties 28,756 57,214 71,657 71,603
Book debts . . 25,470 44,421 48,567 50,759
Stock .. .. 54,542 113,181 109,940 116,177
Cash .... 178 71 176 355
In particular the increase of book debts and stock
suggests a bigger business. Good times have no doubt
a very large influence on this co.’s figures. Much of
the output consists of what may be called domestic
extras ; also, the scarcity of Mary Anns, due likewise
largely to good times, produces an extra call on this
co.’s ready-to-eat goods. Under normal conditions
there would probably be a considerable shrink-
age. Apart from that, there is the fact that with
droughty conditions (which in Australia mean poor
times and diminished buying.) the cost of this co.’s
raw materials runs up very seriously—a circumstance
to which the erratic yields of the past are mainly
due. So the co. is in bad times hit both ways, just as in
the past good year it has benefited both ways: as
the directors say, there has been “a large demand
for the co.’s products,” while “raw materials have,
generally speaking, ruled on a moderate scale.”
* * * #
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Gross
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1907 .. £934,432 £571,619 £362,813
May, 1908 . . 911,723 648,360 263,303
May, 1909 .. 901,838 673,622 228,216
May, 1910 .. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
Nov., 1910 .. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911 .. 408,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911 .. 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912 .. 537,378 349,985 187,393
Nov., 1912 .. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913 . . 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913 . . 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914 .. 459,606 328,217 131,389
But “profits” in a mining co. are as elusive as rain-
bow gold. In the past four years, as the foregoing
table shows, the aggregate profit has been nominally
£1,1£9,457; yet the dividends have been only
£650,000, and the surplus of liquid assets is rather
less now than it was on June 1, 1910. This means
that, though the profit has been nominally
£1,129,457, more than £479,000 of it has been
absorbed in the purchase of new plant and in develop-
ment work, etc. For the greater part this plant
merely supersedes old machinery, the replacement
being demanded by changes in the mine. “But,” it
is a fair thing to ask, “if new plant, etc., have been
provided at a cost of £479,000 in four years, won’t
all the profit be available for distribution as soon as
the equipment is complete ?” Unfortunately the
equipment of a mine of this sort never is complete.
Mount Morgan was a gold mine, handling little but
oxidised ores originally. Then sulphides had to be
attacked, and by 1902 the output of sulphides was
greater than that of oxidised ores. Then came the
< opper ores, the first of which wore handled in 1904.
Now, while copper ores alone are depended on, they
have undergone a change which has demanded not
only a new furnace equipment, but also a concen-
trating plant to get out the excess of silica. And
so the thing goes on.
Large sums may also be required to open up
the mine so as to permit of the output of ore which
the new plants call for. This is the weakest point
in the present Mount Morgan position. Mine-manager
Boyd and his capable lieutenant are doing first-rate
work; nevertheless they had to scratch hard to get
out an average of 917 tons of clean ore per working
day last half-year. The new furnaces and the flota-
tion mill will have a joint capacity of 1200 tons a
day. Whether the mine can supply it continuously
without considerable capital expenditure is doubtful.
If the concentrating plant is duplicated, as it will
very likely have to be to get down the silica contents
of ore which otherwise will cost too much to smelt,
the position will be more awkward still.
The table shows a gross profit for the half-year of
£131,389 ; but £27,883 was written off against
maintenance, exploration, etc., reducing the total
to £103,506; and from that again £24,707 is charge-
able for depreciation. Apart, then, from deprecia-
tion, the true profit for the half-year is alleged to
be £103,506, or £3506 more than the dividends paid.
It looks as if this puts the brightest face possible on
the actual results. The big stock of unsold copper
was valued at £6O per ton, and it is very doubtful
whether the difference between that and present
price will pay charges. If so, the profit is less
than that taken credit for. Further, if, as reported
by the manager, only 67,173 tons of high-grade ore
were delivered during the year, along with 40,357
tons of medium and 23,721 tons of low-grade ore, it
seems incredible that the copper ore smelted should
have given 7.4740 z. gold per ton ; for the high-grade
ore reserves were valued a while ago at Bdwt., the
medium-grade at about 3dwt., and the poor at under
2dwt. Either the 120,012 tons sent to the smelter
included concentrates from the experimental flotation
plant, and the average extraction shown is not the
average yield of the crude ore; or some method of
selecting the ore was adopted, having the effect of
feeding the furnaces with a quality much superior
in gold content to the average available. On the
other hand, there have no doubt been some adverse
circumstances at work. The plant-reconstruction
must have interfered with operations; also there was
a fire, though profits were covered by insurance.
As to probable profits, let another man, who has
dug deep into this subject, have his say: “Mount
Morgan’s probable profits in the future are very
difficult to estimate. A great deal of the new plant,
including the compressors for supplying a greater
pressure of air to -the mine and blast for the fur-
naces, has been in commission for some months, so
that probably the only reduction in costs"'likely to
occur will be in actual smelting with the new fur-
naces. It is fairly safe to assume that the class
of ore to be treated during the next six months will
not. materially differ from that of the period under
review. Even presuming that the costs of smelting
are reduced by ss. per ton of Mount Morgan ore
treated, which is assuming a good • deal, the profits
next half-year are not likely to do more than meet
the usual quarterly dividend and depreciation. The
concentrator must, of course, be considered; but
owing to the demands of the smelters it is not likely
to get any but low-grade ore, which will carry very
little profit. For the periods ended November, 1913,
and May, 1914, there were treated 18,960 and 40,357
tons of medium-grade ore. Of these tonnages the
general manager says 12,000 and. 29,000 tons—that
is, two-thirds of the tonnage treated —should have
gone to the concentrator. It is, therefore, evi-
dently the intention to concentrate two-thirds of
the medium-grade ore and smelt the remaining one-
third, which is probably fairly low in silica contents.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY
Directors:
WALTER C. WATT, Chairman.
Hon. REGINALD J. BLACK, M.L.C. Hon. HENRY
MOSES, M.L.C. T. H. KELLY, J. O. FAIRFAX.
Makes a Specialty of Acting as Trustee
of Marriage and Other Settlements.
If you wish to make a Settlement for the benefit
■of your family why not appoint the Company? It
is perpetual; the Security is undoubted; .it renders
Accounts regularly; the Directors are all well-known
men; its charges are moderate.
Write for pamphlet giving full particulars.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
EFFICIENT SERVICE
under all conditions is ensured
by installing
f
SEP
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
Write lor Catalogue to
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Jindarra: Can’t give advice on probable-
market movements. _
* ... * * *
The one thing that you can’t buy more of is time-
—then why not make better use of every minute of
your manufacturing day? Why not get full time'
every working minute from your plant? “Pioneer’-’'
leather belting will give you the full working time •
of your machines because it has a grip that never
slips, and, that uses every ounce of your power in i
driving pulleys and machines at top speed. Let:
“Pioneer” leather belting work for you—it is giving,
an “every minute service” in thousands of
biggest mine and power plants. Write and ask our
nearest office for particulars. “Pioneer” leather belt-
ing is made only by J. 0. Ludowici and Son Ltd.‘,
Pioneer Works, 117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V.
Markets), and sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell P’t’y
Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in South Australia
by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; in
Queensland by Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Bris-
bane ; in W. Australia by Horace Summers,, Howard
Street, Perth ; in Broken Hill by Geo. C. Dempster,
Argent Street.*
* * * »
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar," which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re 1
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-;
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Win. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hrcla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth thjfe
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1 .
* * * »
Extract from The Review, London, December 6,
1913“ Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited.—The progress of the Society is clearly
demonstrated in figures. Though it cannot be con-
sidered aii old company, in comparison with many of
its competitors—it was instituted in 1873—the
amount 6f business secured, and the resources built
up, proves that those who have served the company
have done their duty most faithfully and well.”* [5
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE. All the materials for
the largest Wood Stave Pipe can be carried by pack-
horses to places inaccessible to heavier kinds of
piping, and can be satisfactorily laid by, at most, two
men. Full instructions are given in the catalogue,
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (head office).*
* * * *
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128-b.h.p
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), tliqs
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power-
should apply to R. Hornsby & Sons, Ltd., Sydney,.
Melbourne and Brisbane.* [3'-
. Harringtons Ltd., the Photographic Merchants, of'
386 George Street, Sydney, will give the highest
returns for all kinds of residues, large quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process worker’s residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Harrington’s assay department can execute assays*
for jewellers within two or three hours, and pro-
spectors and others are assured of immediate attention..
All kinds of analytical and metallurgical work caVn
be exeeuted 1 promptly, and advice given on all’
branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy. The-
whole of the work is' directed by a qualified analyst
and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, London,
Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England, lI.M-
Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Harringtons
can also arrange to send large parcels of sweeps,
residues, ores, etc., direct to Messrs. Johnson & Sons,
London.* ' *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.* ' '
* » * »
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? ff so, write
to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * . . *
Mining and assay requi res can be-, procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and .Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. He'ad
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
*** * -
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison !t Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* . * * , • * -
Assayehs, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites l and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 800 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ains\vo,rth’s assay balances - sensitive- to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
V ’* - ' - • ' : • ' ’ i . ' ' .
The Standard of Quality throughout, the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
Has the Greatest Uniformity of Quality of any Steel on the Market.
’Phone
CITY-8332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
On -this assumption the following table reclassifies
the ore reserves on a ‘smelting’ and ‘concentration’
basis (copper taken at £6O) :
Smelting Ore.
Value
Copper. Gold. per ton.
1,211,000 tons. 34 p.c. Bdwt. 75/9
362,000 tons. - 3 p.c. 24dwt. 46/6
1,573,000 tons. 3.39 p.c. 6.7Bdwt. 69/3
Concentrating Ore.
Value
Copper. Gold. per ton.
1,276,000 tons. 3 p.c. 2Jdwt. 46/6
3,000,000 tons. / 2 to 3 p.c. 1 to 2dwt. 1 „ 6 / 4
\ say 24 p.c. say 14dwt. J '
This latter 3,000,000 tons, although lately referred
to by the co. as ore outside the reserves, was, in the
report for May, 1906, included with the reserves as
Targe, unestimated quantities containing from 2 p.c.
to 3 p.c. of copper and ldwt. to 2dwt. of gold.’ The
reserves of smelting ore should, therefore, be sufficient
to supply the furnaces, on the basis of 700 tons per
day, for about six years. This smelting ore is
worth .. ... .. .. .. .. 69/3
Present cost of treatment . . . . 60/3
Less extra development . . . . 1/3
59/-
Less possible reduction of costs . . 5/- 547-
Profit per ton of ore .. —• 15/3
To this must be added contents of Many Peaks ore,
which it is intended shall be used in one furnace only,
and of which (according to figures in previous re-
ports) there will probably be used about 70,000 to
80,000 tons per annum, yielding in proportion to
each ton of Mount Morgan ore (say) 625., making
the total approximate profit per ton of Mount
Morgan ore £1 os. 3d. The furnaces should, there-
fore, produce, from smelting ore only, about 8000
tons of blister copper per annum at an approximate
profit of £250,000.
“Very few reputations have been made and a
great many marred by concentration problems in Aus-
tralia, and it is impossible to estimate the profits
this co. may earn; but it has yet to prove that
3,000,000 tons of ore worth 365. 4d. per ton is of
any use to this co. The 1,276,000 tons of medium-
grade ore worth 465. 6d. may be a different proposi-
tion. The concentration plant in full swing will
probably be responsible for the output of over 4000
tons of blister copper per annum, though at what
margin of profit it is impossible to even guess. It
may be noted that the reserve of medium-grade ore
will provide about seven years’ supply for the 500-
tons-per-day concentrator. A further unit proposed
to be erected later, on will probably be able to
account for all payable ore picked from the low-
grade reserves. If and when the new plant is worked
to its full capacity the output of blister copper
should be over 12,000 tons per annum. But Mount
Morgan has a big problem in front of it in the
mining and delivery of the necessary quantity of
ore; and even after that is accomplished another
problem in reducing costs sufficiently to justify the
expenditure of £266,624. Beyond six or seven years
it is impossible to see anything. By the end of that
time, unless discoveries of high-grade ore are made,
it is extremely doubtful whether much, if anything,
will be left of tangible value to the company.”
Justice Murray, of Adelaide, has just
decided that the Stock Exchange committee had no
right to sell an insolvent member’s seat for £332
and forfeit the proceeds to itself. The Judge held
that the articles of the Exchange were bad in law
and constituted, technically, a fraud on the insol-
vency statute, because they deprived the member of
the chance to pay his creditors. The rules of every
Australian Stock Exchange constitute a code framed
to protect members amongst themselves and against
the public. It is questionable whether custom and
usage give them the force sharebrokers fancy they
do, and ■ this is an instance where a rule is held to
be repugnant to ,the law of the land. The Stock
Exchange will have to pay the man who bought the.
seat from the official assignee the proceeds of the
sale. Stock Exchanges have for so long understood
they have a right to frame laws to suit themselves
•that this decision will give them a shock. In this
case, if the Exchange had merely forfeited the seat
for misfeasance, without selling it and pocketing the
proceeds, it would not, it seems, have come under
Judge Murray’s condemnation.
The underwriters of the Broken Hill Prop.
6 p.c. debenture loan of £600,000 have no baby to
carry. Applicants for £4OO or less get what they
asked for; those who wanted more get anything
down to 35 p.c. The easy money made by the
underwriters explains why it was such a scandalous
thing for Denison Miller to put the Commonwealth
Bank on the list. What right has he to butt in
■when profits are sure! Isn’t there plenty of rotten
business that nobodv else wants?
* * * *
B. H. Block 10, being near the end of
its old mine, has taken an option over the Kula-
madau (Woodlark Island, Papua). An official is on
his way to do the sampling. If this moneyed and
•experienced concern gets hold of Kulamadau, the
latter will have -a real chance for the first time in
its life.
* * * *
Block 14 Torrington (N.S.W.) will call
'up Is. per share and place prefs. and ordinaries on
an equal footing. During 12 months to March 31
the mill treated 14,123 tons of crudes-for 63-J tons
•of concentrates assaying 67.33 p.c. tungstic acid and
3.13 p.c. bismuth. An average of 222 tons of ore
to one ton of wolfram concentrates can only be
remunerative when the tonnage handled is very large,
the costs low, and the price of wolfram-bismuth
concentrates high. Costs averaged 9s. sd. per ton
•of crudes, which was prohibitive.
The Chandler’s Creek Copper Syndicate,
with one of the Longworths, and Bellinger and Baker
(both late of Great Cobar), and Hugh Denison and
others in it. has a working option over eight
blocks on the Firefly field, 25 miles from Hill-
grove (N.S.W.). The first option, taken last
December, expired on June 30, but an extension has
been arranged until March 1 next. The district
is so extraordinarily rough and the difficulty of get-
ting stores, etc., there so great that the syndicate
was unable to do the. necessary prospecting in the
time originally fixed upon. ‘ So far the chief work,
'apart from the usual surface trenching, has been'in
two tunnels. In one ' of them 300 ft. has been
•driven. At that point a crosscourse was met,
whereupon Laird (who was brought out to manage
'Chesney Cobar, and is supervising operations) came
back along the fault. A second tunnel, higher up,
is on a block not now held by the syndicate, and
work there has been discontinued. On the tunnel
side of the principal workings there is a big body
of copper-lead-silver ore, going perhaps 5 p.c. cop-
per in most places, but with veins much richer in
copper and sometimes very rich in silver. On the
surface, beyond the crosscourse, there is carbonate
ore; so it seems-likely that the tunnel, if continued
at the right place, will hit something. Between
Ilillgrove and the new field, or what threatens to
be a new field, there is some very precipitous coun-
try. So far no road has been opened, and for five
miles of the 25 all supplies have to be packed.- In
ail applications have been put in for about 100
claims; but apart from the syndicate nobody is
doing much serious work.
Webb’s old silver lead show at Emma-
ville (N.S W.) is being offered in Melbourne as
Webb’s Consols in 60,000 shares, of which 25,000
paids go to vendors. Two of the vendors report large
bodies of ore, and advise erection of concentiatmg
plant to treat stuff said to average £l2 6s. per ton
of ore, taking zinc at £2l, lead at £l9, and silver
at 2s. The history of the mine warrants it being
unwatei od, but the promoters should see the contents
of the cellar before thinking of spending £5OOO on
a mill.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) reports a
net profit of £35,541 for the year ended February
last. This has been applied in payment of three
four-monthly dividends, aggregating 16 p.c., West-
ralian dividend duty, directors’ percentages and Eng-
lish income tax. With £8682 brought forward a
balance of £9025 is left. An interim dividend of
5 p.c. has since been paid on account of the current
financial year. Mill returns show that 216,043 tons
—an average of 18,003 per month —were treated at
a cost of £102,409 for a return of £249.762. The
quantity handled is 3437 tons more than in the pre-
vious year, and -exceeds the 18,000 tons a month
which the management said the plant would do.
Working costs at 17s. 3d. are down about 54d. In-
cluding outlay on development ( £19,580), which
runs out at Is. lOd. per ton milled, total costs are
19s. Id., or Bd. less than in the previous year. The
general managers estimate the ore in sight at 448,038
tons of an average value of 26.8185. per ton; and
the consulting engineers, who apparently have no fault
to find with these figures, state that the year was
one of progress, as shown by bigger tonnage treated,
reduced working costs and greater ore reserves. The
Board adds that the position of developments in both
the co.’s mines indicates that the time has arrived
when expenditure under this heading can be in-
creased with advantage. Two years ago a Bulletin
man, after seeing what the co. had up its sleeve,
said that as an investment it was as good as any-
thing else, and a good-deal better than most things
at Kalgoorlie. Since then the price of shares has
almost doubled.
* * * •
Hannan’s Reward North (W.A.) is doing
well under its private owners. Towards the end of
last year a shoot, which has since proved to be about
150 ft. in length, was struck, and a few hundred tons
yielded £3500 over the plates. Since then an addi-
tional £3OOO odd has been obtained, and a lot more
money is said to be contained in the 5000 tons of
ore awaiting treatment. The show once broke the
back of a weakly-financed Adelaide co., but as it
was only toyed with in those days its failure cannot
be wondered at. Many better mines went down and
out for the same reason.
* * * *
Beria Consols, late Lancefield (W.A..),
has been drained and got in readiness to furnish
6000 to 7000 tons a month for the remodelled mill.
The last estimate of reserves was 250,000 tons of
345. ore, and this, it is asserted, will be confirmed
by actual returns. There is, no doubt, a lot of ore
in sight, and the mine can provide much more when
further opened up; but whether there will be any
'real profit in the work is doubtful. The Lancefield
Co. took nearly a million out of the property, but
spent it all, with hundreds of thousands besides.
* * * * .
Owing to reduced circumstances Princess
Royal (W.A.) cut expenses to the bone, during the
past half-year, but kept square out' of tributors’
returns. A party of miners is now working some
small runs of ore which' would not pay the co. to
mine, and the Board thinks it probable that further
prospecting will reveal large bodies of ore. While
there’s life there’s hope; but on appearances there
isn’t more than enough of if in the Princess to swear
by.
* * * *
“Circumstances have been against us,” re-
marked the knighted Purcell from the chair at the
Golden Horseshoe meeting when explaining why 1913
results had fallen far short of the Board’s expecta-
tions. “We had proved by driving, crosscutting and
diamond-drilling that large deposits, not only of
payable but of very rich ore, lay in the neighborhood
of the lowest levels; but, due mainly to shortness
of labor, we have hitherto been unsuccessful in com-
pletely reaching and developing this treasure and
bringing it to the surface. All indications, how-
ever, go to show that when fully developed at depth
we will have practically two new mines to draw upon
- —one in the neighborhood of the No. 2 shaft and the
other at . depth around the main shaft. Results
from these sources of supply will be reflected in the
output very shortly.” Turning to ore reserves Purcell
said that nothing has been taken into account on the
No. 2 lode below 2000 ft., on the No. 3 lode below
2240 ft., and on the No. 4 lode below 900 ft.
Moreover, above these levels all ore had been
eliminated where there was the slightest doubt of its
being unworkable. None of the extensive bodies on
the Nos. 2 and 3 lodes below 2000 ft. and 2240 ft.
respectively and on the No. 4 below the 2480 ft. had
been taken into account, and the manager had
omitted large tonnages on the upper levels not suffi-
ciently developed to be classed as ore in sight.
* * * *
From Westons (W.A.) :—Duff’s leases,
into which the Edna May Co. recently put a bore,
are about to be offered to the Eastern public for
£6OOO cash and an interest in any co. formed to
acquire it. At first it was generally believed that
the Edna May drill emphasised the worthlessness of
Duff’s, but it has since been proved that the bore
was put down too far west to strike the underlie
of the Edna May reef, and that the drill deflected
north in a most pronounced manner. The drill-hole,
therefore, disproved nothing. But there is this fact
of importance to be borne in mind: any co. formed
to work Duff’s is faced with 500 ft. of sinking before
it can hope to get anv reef—that is, assuming any
reef is there. This work will cost at the very least
£l5 a foot, and the cost of driving levels and open-
ing up the reef —if there —has to be added. Only a
strongly-financed co. should take the risk of proving
the show.
* * * *
An independent report on the Edna May
is seriously urged. The plant is primitive, the method
of estimating the tonnage treated doubtful, and the
system of sampling open to objection. The mine
seems to be all right, and -he striking of the good
values at the No. 3 (225 ft.) level is looked upon as
a certainty.
* * * *
Victoria’s gold yield for the first six
months of the current year was 217,6880 z., against
225,9850 z. for the same term in 1913. Theije isn’t
any certainty that even the lower figure will be
reached during the current half-year, especially if
Drysdale Brown, the Mines Minister, cuts up rough
over the dredging industry. The latest wail is
emitted by the Briseis crowd, who took up the Wal-
lace blocks, near Yackandandah. On top of higher
wages have now been lumped onerous conditions
and re-soiling obligations.
* * * *
Sydney people seem to banker after the
fleshpots of Victorian alluvial mining, though when
they dipped into Rutherglen under the- Great South-
ern Consols ensign they fared indifferently. Clunes
is said to be the next objective. This field has
stretches of alluvial, but its chief old-time wonders
were the Port Phillip and Clunes claims. These paid
a mint of money, but fluttered out once calls for
development work outside the main shoots had to be
collected. Ha-ha Peacock always has had the call
of the best of the ground at Clunes, and maybe he
is the inspiring genius of the proposed Sydney flutter.
There isn’t much to cavil at in the floaters’ terms.
They get £2500 cash, but have to subscribe for
20,000 shares out of 60,000 to be issued at Is.
About £200,000 has come out of some of the allu-
vial mines at Clunes, and Loddon Deep Leads has
more than a passing chance.
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), by the
grace of Heaven and the aid of little secretary
Fenton, is to be haled back into active life. That
is, provided the St. Arnaud townsfolk put up the
necessary—and they have ever been rather chary
about backing their own district. To help, a whip-up
of the miners was made, and they took 3000 shares
out of 25,000 that have to be placed. The pro-
gramme is to rip the shaft down another 200 ft. in
the fond hope that depth will add to the gold con-
tents of a dwindling shoot. Very few of the old set
are likely to accompany St. Arnaud in this excur-
sion.
« * * *
Diamond Creek (Vic.) seems to have been
shut down in a hurry, judging by a Government
geologist’s report. The co. got 30,0000 z. from 23,163
tons out of a reef from three to 18in. wide worked
to a depth of 886 ft. But of £120,000 worth of gold
only £12,250 was, paid to shareholders who had pre-
viously put up £11,750. The main gold-bearing
reefs occur in a big porphyritic dyke. Two feet
away from the walls of the dyke these gold reefs
have been consistently ric(i. Sometimes 30 p.e. of
the ore crushed was dyke rock. Three shoots have
been mined, and the payable quartz has been over
250 ft. long in certain levels. At the bottom (885 ft.)
level good stone went underfoot, and could not be
stoped underhand because the water was too heavy.
The reef where left was, according to this geologist,
“richer than anything seen below the No. 8 level.
Payable quartz remains at the No. 8 level south in
the second stope south, and there are highly encour-
aging prospects near the face.” The geologist re-
commends extending the No. 9 level north, and
driving on it 200 ft. south. He concludes: “To open
the mine at a further depth a more economic scheme
of working than by the two shafts would have to be
provided.” Why in the face of such a report was
the mine abandoned? Was it too near Melbourne?
Or was it bad management, extravagant expenditure,
or lack of mining knowledge? Gold is there still,
and the right, way to get it is by sinking an incline
shaft in modern style under skilled supervision.
* * * ' *
The cheapest part of the Briseis show
(Tas.) is the mine staff; certainly not the London
office, which eats up £2768 annually. Last year
the co. met a dry season and a fading tin market,
so the Fatman shareholder moans over the falling-
off in receipts. The decrease was, roughly, £3O
per ton of tin, which on the 374 tons won cut down
profits by oyer £ll,OOO. After all, the co. aver-
aged £lB9 12s. 9d. per ton for its tin, whereas this
year it looks as if £4O per ton will have to come off
that. As the net profit for 1913 was £37,728, and
as the co. won’t be increasing its output, it seems
sure that this year’s sluicing isn’t going to net
much more than £20,000, unless the Wallace leases
in Victoria bring in more than the £4301 earned
last year. Costs of tin-winning at the Briseis, exclu-
sive of the outlay on the removal of overburden,
run info £4B 13s. and smelting £8.85., so that
even with tin’ where it now stands there is a fairly
wide, margin. To get £22,260 of gold from the
co.’s Wallace dredging claims at Yackandandah
£17,959 had to be spent, and what with the higher
cost of labor, and the stiff regulations imposed by the
Mines Department, it looks as if the co. may seriously
consider stopping work there. The co.’s luck was
out when it struck both a crack-up of the tin-
market and Drysdale Brown as Minister of Mines.
* * * *
The announcement that Mount Bischoff
(Tas.) would pass the dividend this month caused
another fall in shares. In June the mill handled
16,066 tons of dirt, and the shipments were 75 tons
of oxide, say 215 tons to make one ton of concen-
trates. With the metal selling at £l4O, concentrates
are worth from £75 to £B5, after deducting cost
of smelting. Now, Bischoff requires to make a net
profit of £4O a ton on its present output of con-
centrates to clear £3OOO, or ss. per share per
month. That means that costs must not go beyond
(say) £4O per ton of concentrates or 3s. 9d. per
ton of ore—and the thing can’t be done. The old
rate of ss. was excellent, and a reduced output
certainly won’t help it.
* * * *
“Crosscut”: Re Mount Oxide, “Main-
shaft” (B. 16/7/’l4) refers to the “gall” of the
London people in asking for an option on terms
which required the vendor co. to develop the mine at
its own expense during the currency of the option.
What about the complaisant Australian people in
control of Mount Oxide Mines, Ltd., who granted an
option on such terms after the mine had been in-
spected and approved by W. A. Mercer and Captain
Richard for the buyers? Writer has been associated
with mining and mining deals for some years, and
never before heard of an option being given on such
terms, vendors paying for everything, being bound
to a certain minimum of expenditure per month
under the supervision and direction of the buyers,
etc. A speech at the recent meeting, which, start-
ing by beslavering the directors, went on to denuncia-
tion of the purchasers for their perfidy over loans,
share transactions, etc., suggested a possible ex-
planation. Did the directors leave the transactions
to someone to whom his own interests, and possibly
immediate financial assistance, were of more import-
ance than the interests of the vendor company?
* * * *
At the Mount Morgan meeting, at Rock-
hampton, the directors were authorised to borrow
on debentures an amount not exceeding £1,000,000.
The power to borrow money has always been with
the co. ; it is now limited in this way to conform
with the rules of the London Stock Exchange. Other
changes made in the articles were at the prompting
of the same body—though, presumably, this doesn’t
apply to the “amendment” allowing directors to
trade for their own benefit with the co.
* * * *
At Gympie No. 3 Columbia pays a four-
penny, after cleaning up 4350 z. from 677 tons of
stone. No. 2 S. Great. Ea.-ttr a cleaned up 3470 z., of
which 141 oz. came from the periodical scraping of
plates; 1600 tons of tailings'put through the vats-
returned £594. Another leader has been met with;,
but the ransacking of the famous old mine for.
leaders isn’t a healthy sign. Yet what can the-
co. do, seeing that so far the big stopes on the-
Inglewood reef above 2000 ft. have been so poor?


Under
Royal
Warrant
ds
ToH.M.
Kin 6
George V
<
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNt
OiartcsHeidsiedc
Reims
**«F
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
MADAME JEANNE BROLA IN ARDUOUS
OPERATIC ROLES.
THE BEAUTIFUL-VOICED SOPRANO WRITES AN
EXPERT MEDICAL OPINION.
It has been the surprise and delight of music-lovers
and theatre-goers to witness the lavish display of
vocal ability and operatic talent so unquestionably
possessed by Madame Jeanne Brola, the distinguished
soprano of the recent Quinlan Opera Company.
Many of her singing r6les were prominently opposed
to each other, yet she was as much at home in
“Madame Butterfly” as in “La Boheme,” and as
much so in “The Girl of the Golden West” as in
“Aida.” It appeared natural to her in that what-
ever she did she did well.
Madame Brola during the 1913 season deservedly
became intensely popular with Australin music-
lovers, but she freely admitted that so great and
exhausting had been her duties that she would un-
doubtedly have suffered FROM A GREAT MENTAL
AND PHYSICAL BREAKDOWN were it not for the
fact that she took Clements Tonic, the ideal medi-
cine for the artiste and professional. Her tribute to
this splendid strength-giving and health-preserving
medicine has been often published for the public
good, and should be read by all professional and
commercial persons who at times suffer from brain-
fag, anaemia, physical fatigue or nerve weakness.
Ladies of society who suffer from nervousness,
caused by exacting social duties, and who suffer
from brain-fag or insomnia in consequence, should
use this medicine because it induces restful, sooth-
ing and invigorating sleep.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL CLEMENTS
TONIC EVERYWHERE.
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
2
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
ou est ne le roi FRANCOIS FI de France.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 20, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
The Munro Ferguson has been stampeding
round a mountain of social fluff. The other
morn the N.S.W. Scotchbyterian Kirk crept
up behind him and pinned an address of
welcome on to his garments. This done, his
Ex fled in all his finery to hold the threat-
ened lev6e in the Town Hall. After
bobbing to every size and shape of citizen —
11 u —the G.-G. had an hour
oft the official wicket for lunch. After this
midday interval he rushed to his Macquarie-
street consulting room, or whatever this
emergency shelter is labelled, to be per-
sistently called on in torrents of rain by
more or less web-footed members of the
bydney Harbor Trust, and many other
goloshed city potentates. Apparently-drowned
aldermen were restored by the latest scien-
tific processes.
French bird-man Guillaux arrived here
safely with the first express sky mail, in
floods of weepful weather. Guillaux drifted
out of the grey, wet blanket of clouds about
three in the afternoon, and hovered over the
Sports Ground, where G.-G. Ferguson and
Governor Strickland were craning their necks
to see the descent.
The Australian friends and admirers of
the late Matthew Flinders—navigator in the
days of marine tubs—have been making a
fuss about the centenary (July 18) of his
last voyage. This was across Charon’s
Ferry in 1814.
Excellency Murray’s tall shadow falls
across the Iloutman’s decks at Brisbane
llis_ return voyage to the mosquito-bitten
territory, where the “shy but friendly” native
has been doing a tango-bango on the shore
whde the Rupert Clark craft slipped up the
River, is luckily for the benign Murray
—too late for him to get the blame of the
present epidemic of ’flu’ in Moresby. Other-
wise, inspired cables in the press would cer-
tainly have informed us that “in spite of all
Mr. Something or other had done to avoid it,
the unfortunate natives were liable to con-
tract the germs introduced by Governor Mur-
ray from Sydney.” Papua, in the pin-
sticking that its Australian Administrator
suffers from just now, suggests Kipling’s
yarn, ‘The Germ Destroyer.” You remem-
ber the Indian viceroy who had no name, but
a turbulent understudy, who was called
Wonder. And, behold. Wonder wanted to
reign in place of the viceroy, who pretended
to see nothin g tiH the Right time came.
When we are all cherubims together,” said
his Excellency, “my dear, good friend Won-
der will head a conspiracy for plucking out
Gabriel’s tail feathers, or stealing Peter’s
keys. Then I shall report him.”
Queensland’s ex-Governor Macgregor had
17 guns fired off to speed him on his way
from Sydney along the bumpy wet track to
London.
Governor Strickland is going to open a
Wild Flower Show in our Town Barn on
September 3. The N.S.W. Forestry Depart-
ment is rendering first aid, with samples of
tubbed or potted trees. These exhibits are
indirectly connected with the fierce argu-
ment that rages round the craze for hacking
down Australian shade timber in Australian
parks. Victoria and Tasmania are sending
private contributions to the show. The
Bananaland Government is offering an obla-
tion of choice cut blooms to the floral
rally, which has the Girls’ Realm and organ-
ising-secretary Grace Burrows behind it.
Prof. Turner, of the British Science Asso-
ciation, is going to tell us all about Comets
in August, when the Blue Socks assemble
in this hamlet. He’s a big man with a
voice like minor thunder. So he’ll track the
secretive comet to its last hole in ether, in
impressive tones that will ring round the
rafters. The British Astronomer Royal (his
name has slipped my ken) doesn’t loom in
front of any stupendous star talk when the
science gossips bang their umbrellas down in
Sydney. He is a nervous man, with a small,
shy voice, and won’t be heard very well if
he does unburden his soul on the domestic
quarrels of the asteroid family, and the
sprints and hurdle-races of the big stars,
and the _ struggles of the planets to run to
time, quite unlike the Boggabri express.
Hockey was played by the victorious
Englishwomen at Rushcutter’s Bay, be-
tween the raindrops in last wet " week.
Our girls have a good deal to learn about
the importance of combination. One or two
Australian damsels played the game on the
lines, “Here I go, and let the Bullesses
catch the hindmost!”
The Misses John Bull are nearly
all as tall as young lamp-posts, or
pyramids or giraffes. They run like
hares, and they smack the ball with a
strong sense of combination. On Wednes-
day it was like watching a chamois clad
m a red skirt, to note the flying leaps of a
large, spectacled Englishwoman. Armed
with a hockey club, which she used with
the dexterity of the Cave Woman chasing
her breakfast as it fled on all fours, this
player led the other Red Skirts on to blood-
less victory at the goals. Our girls don’t
wear the wide, short, flared sporting skirts
• English visitors. They are cased
m foolish, navy-blue bolster cases, much too
narrow, and can’t get over the ground,
owing to insufficiency of knee space. The
Cornstalk lady doesn’t look after her feet
and shins half as carefully as Miss Bull,
who is top-booted to her knees. Hockey
hasn’t been much of a craze here. If Miss
Australia does make up her mind to play
it, she’d better get an extra yard or two
of stuff, and let it into her hobble surround-
ings.
A Double Bay ambulance class, headed off
by Mrs. H. E. Ivater, Mrs. James Ashton,
Miss Suttor and Dr. 11. C. Adams, is re-
questing the pleasure of our company on
July 27. Excellency Helen M. Ferguson is
impounded for the event, and means to
talk seriously to the company on Red Cross
work a pet hobby in England. St. Mark’s
schoolroom, on the brink of Darling Point
Road, will roof this discourse on splints.
Tenor Paul Dufault is warbling here to
loud_ applause in our huge municipal hall.
He is on a sure wicket when he hurls “In-
victus” off his elegant chest. The story of
Jeannette and Pierre vocalised in “Au Pays,”
sung here before, was repeated by the sil-
very topped tenor at Saturday night’s con-
cert. Pauline Bindley, the Victorian
soprano who is touring with the Dufault co.,
and Ernest Toy, at the violin, do their little
bit while the French Canadian swallows a
lozenge or two in the artist’s den.
Tiie Bulletin’s own “Hop” writes from
London on June 15. “Arrived in Liverpool
by steamer Celtic in dismal weather (this is
mid-summer), damp and cold. Left for
London a day or so later, and have been put
up at the Savage Club. Lunched with
Brient, Frank Fox and Herbert Harris, of
Sydney—the last has recently come to Eng-
land. Met the editor of the Morning Post,
who said some very flattering things about
Australian journalism, including, of course,
The Bulletin, whose red cover would have
blushed up to its ears could it have heard
.... The suffragettes are going it strong
over here, and are giving John Bull cold
feet—up to the knees. I didn’t happen to
be. sitting in; the Coronation Chair in West-
minster Abbey when they applied a bomb
....Motored down into Surrey and lunched
at a wayside inn built in sixteen hundred
and something, and noticed on the journey
some of the finest rural landscapes I ever
saw—And the roads— ! Travelled that
day from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 125 miles —so
the driver said. Dine with Fullwood at the
Chelsea Club to-morrow evening.... Leave
for America July 1 in Olympic. Probably
catch the Niagara from the Pacific coast for
Sydney in August.”
The venerable town of Penrith, which
basks in the sun at the stony foot, or feet,
of our Blue Mountains, has just celebrated
with much bunting the 100th birthday of
the great Western Road. The oldest inhabi-
tant has cackled cheerfully of the Past, and
has told all he knows and all he doesn’t
know, besides other things.
The veteran artist Piguenit died at Hun-
ter’s Hill the other day. Though Tasmanian
born, the well-known painter of Australian
landscape was of French distraction, as they
say in Berlin. Possibly the finest sample
of Piguenit’s work is a huge canvas
splashed with the indigo blue of Australian
mountains in clear weather. This picture
of Kosciusko is a magnificent advertisement
of that Alpine hill in N.S.W. It is the
property of our National Gallery, and might
be loaned to the projected 1915 Exhibition in
London with advantage to the State.
At a gathering in the Kindergarten Col-
lege last week, the Citizens’ Association of
N.S.W. was born into a city that needs Us
behind the broomhandle. Mrs. Francis
Anderson, a public-spirited ’Varsity dame, is
president of the new baby—l mean league.
Mrs. Tom Hughes, who was one of the first
to rise up and firmly demand a place for
women in the local municipal housemaids’ de-
partment, is next in command. Mrs. Hughes
was Mayoress of this lovely but untidy town
on several occasions, so she ought to know
where to prod civics in their slack spots.
The Sydney Centre Council of the Associa-
tion, which welcomes Man to its delibera-
tions, is fenced in behind a president, a vice-
president, two secretaries (organising and
corresponding), a treasurer, an assistant
treasurer and 20 members. Now then—who
says We are not going to tackle the mop and
bucket in earnest? Positively no politics
will be allowed to wrinkle the foreheads of
the lady councillors, who are’ pledged to
round up the city and the shires’ authorities
till they feel like innumerable Caudles after
a swarm of Mrs. Caudles have buzzed in
their sleepy brains. Mrs. Ashburton
Thompson has joined the Broomhandle Bri-
gade as vice-president the second.
Auckland’s noted surgeon Savage (he is
mentioned for his skill with human break-
ages all over the North Island, and after a
big railway accident he can make two new
human beings out of the debris of three old
ones) is resting from his labors hereabouts.
Mrs. Savage and family have also bumped
their travelling baggage down in this sea-
port.
A voice from the Fog tells me that Greek
dancing is taking the place of physical cul-
ture for the Young Person. The mixture
of modern French dancing master and early
Athenic antics, which has evolved so-called
Greek dances, is a Maud Allan species of
exercise. No doubt it has. its use as a
muscle trainer, and is more interesting than
hurling an Indian club round a small area
of chair and bedpost at getting-up time.
Una Maclardy, a Burwood enthusiast in
the Hellenic cult of arm and leg movement,
is studying the Spartan or Athenian or
Corinthian style of hop in London. Later,
she will impart her knowledge to lively
young eucalypt belles in Australia.
Mrs. Edgeworth David’s bustling energy
is effervescing round the Woman’s Club
these wintry days. She is not long home
after about a year away, mostly in Britain.
One daughter, Mrs. Mclntyre, who used to
be the tall and pretty Madge David, is still
living in Edinburgh—the chief city of the
Scottish Sabbath. She married, as you
know, a young Tasmanian engineer who has
changed over to medicine. I think lie’s
somewhere in his fifth medical year, and
Grandma David had two little Mclntyres
to dandle on her knee —if the learned vege-
tarian lady ever descends to such goo-goo
nonsense—during her recent stay in the
Forth township. Mrs. David, by the way,
looks so well that saucy friends are hinting
she might have deserted nuts for a plump
beefsteak now and again in the past year
of absence from the domestic menu.
Maoriland’s Inspector of Prisons, Charles
Matthews, left for the Dominion on July
18. He has had a long trek through N.S.W.,
Queensland, Victorian and S. Australian
places of detention. The results will be
crammed into extensive reports for the M.L.
Government, which has been exercised
in its massive understanding as to the best
methods of showing Bill Sikes the error of
his crowbar.
Traffic-Manager Bowles, Auckland (Maori-
land), is looking for Health here-
abouts. He is weary of trying to make a
cheap train loaded with mortgages race like
the wind on a 3ft. 6in. line, and is fain to
lean his aching brow up against the 4ft.
Bsin. of N.S.W. or the sft. 3in. of Victoria,
and ask why his lot wasn’t cast in wider
places.
Julian Ashton’s lair, the Society of
Artists’ premises, in Queen Victoria Mar-
kets (a municipal sarcophagus in which the
taxpayer buries his coppers), now houses
the Fine Arts’ exhibits. These are for sale.
By rising with the morning milk or the
last night’s homing cat you will catch two
or three Blamire Young gems. They are
liable to be returned any day to the man
who painted them. He has suddenly caught
the British fancy, and is selling his stuff in
England at prices that would paralyse some
of our local art patrons. He keeps his
money salted down in barrels in the cellar,
because the Bank of England refused to
handle such a large account any longer. It
was upsetting the ordinary course of ex-
change and disarranging the National Debt.
I am informed that Young can’t send any
more nocturnes on canvas, because he is too
busy collecting his dividends in a motor-
dray. He may require the samples he left
here for sale on the other side.
Sydney’s artist, Elliot Griiner—who is
one of our best sellers —has a small slice
of sand and moonlight on view at the Fine
Arts. Fullwood, Streeton, Ashton and the
only Norman Lindsay have exhibits in the
same eyrie. Ring the bell, downstairs, and
don’t fall over your feet on the corkscrewed
staircase that is bandaged with cocoanut
matting. You will then arrive intact in the
Society of Artists’ cave. A business-like,
brisk, young damsel will do the rest.
Little star-gazer Mary Proctor, when
last heard of, was rounding up some stellar
observations to lecture on in England. She
was shivering audibly in June, and remarks
“The English summer seems to be more con-
spicuous than ever by its absence....l met
a lady here the other day who effusively
gripped my hand when we were introduced
and said: So glad to meet you, Miss Proc-
tor —I’ve heard all about your wonderful
Australian discovery of sun spots !’ When
I meekly disclaimed the honor, she continued,
‘Oh, no, of course —how foolish of me! It
was the Australian missing link you dis-
covered, in the sun’!”
A correspondent at Kosciusko removes the
snow from his whiskers and writes: “There
were three grass widows here from Mel-
bourne, and till they left they kept things
humming. To do them justice, they were
even popular with their own sex. As for
the male population on this mount, it is
going about (since the G. widows departed)
as if it had drawn a blank in a Tatt.’s sweep.
Two feet of snow lie softly on the ground.
The Pitt family, of the big stock firm, is
here. _ Barrister Arthur Pitt is getting the
little sister in training for the ladies’ cham-
pionship. The plump little Barbara Gordon
is getting up her muscle for the same event.
Mrs. Jack Lea, of Adelaide, is here, and the
S. Australian contingent you mentioned a
week or so ago is at the Government hostel.
Two Adelaide students have been rusticating
on the summit of Kossy for over a week.
There was some excitement as to whether
they were in trouble owing to the recent
rough weather, but the search party met
them coming back to the hotel. Photo-
grapher Correll was with Mawson at the
Antarctic. He and his companion, Wil-
liams, have cycled 1600 miles round the coast
from Adelaide. They made the top of
Kossy for ‘views.’ They’re going to cycle
across to the Northern Territory, via Oodna-
datta, and return through Queensland.”
Artist Arthur Streeton is one of the latest
homing pigeons to flutter back to Sydney,
lie has been turning out strong work on the
other side for the last six or seven years.
Streeton is going to show his wares here
before packing up his palette for a return
to the Australian camels’ hair colony in Chel-
sea.
The Catholic Club Ball swirls round our
bleak Town Hall before this greets you.
July 22 is the date. The fine, upstanding
Trefl# dame is president of a live-wire com-
mittee that includes Mrs. Vincent McAuley,
Mrs. Leahy, Mrs. Brewer, Mrs. Cassidy and
more besides. Governor Strickland’s patron-
age is booked, and Mayor Richards and Mrs.
Mayoress will keep some of the draughts off
the sub-regal dais.
Little musician Mirrie Solomon is now
named in the long tail that’s preceded by a
flourishing “Prior to her departure for
Europe.” The youthful Mirrie, who has a
poetic streak of fantasy in her compositions,
is to be farewelled at a concert in the
Repertory Theatre, Grosvenor-street. Mrs.
Slapoffski, Henri Staell (at the fiddle), Law-
rence Godfrey Smith (on the piano stool),
are assisting at the girl’s good-bye to Sydney
on July 29.
The Chatriotic Club (Bligh-street) offered
the fatted jam roll and a purse of sovereigns
the other afternoon to the Sun’s Mrs.
Yetta Rosenbloom, prior to her departure
for Java in the Houtman, with Europe at
the far end of the journey. She tripped off
with the brown-eyed Polish journalist,
Jeanne de Czaykowska, after another tea
and bun orgy. This affair was given by Miss
Poland at the Australia hostel, as her adieu
to various friends hereabouts. Both travel-
lers were so excited at having their best
hats still unpacked, that they were unable
to swallow a morsel of food. Manager J. H.
C. Stuart, of the Dutch packet line, was
tearfully implored to hang on to the Hout-
man’s hawser till noon on the 18th. But
that bustling craft stuck to its early rising
habits, and was heaving outside the Heads
long before midday.
Mrs. James Ewan, who passed out at 65
years of age, near the old town of Penrith,
was a daughter of the late Scotch parson
Reid —a one-time pulpit-thumper in the
ancient Mariners’ Church, Circular Quay.
Mrs. Ewan’s brother, High Commissioner
Reid, is the best-known member of this
family. Said family was transplanted in its
tender youth, from Renfrew or Auchter-
arder or Kirkintilloch or Pollokshaws, or
some other place in Scotia. The late Pen-
rith lady’s husband was a city merchant,
and partner in the old firm of John Frazer
and Co., another partner being the late
James Watson, M.L.C.
The New Hebrides earthquake is shaking
up a lot of dust while Julian Ashton is on
a holiday visit to those tropic isles. He is
staying with son Percy, who is settled under
the shadow of his own cannibal and palm
tree over there.
Sydney’s clever young fiddler, Donald
Mcßeath, who went to America with John
McCormack, writes from London of a
“glorious tour” in the U. States. Kreisler,
who heard the young Australian in ’Frisco,
offered to give him lessons for nothing. This
is the lowest fee on record, except when you
are paid or free-lunched for having the les-
sons ; and the bargain was closed later in
N’York. So the great violinist put our
promising Donald through his bowing. He
goes off again, with his fiddle under his
arm, in October, to hustle through Canada
and the George Washington country with
the Irish tenor.
Our city parents have been preening their
rabbits’ tail furs over municipal flats. They
run in the congested Chippendale area of
this city. A week or so ago a ’Varsity dame
trotted some ’Murkan friends out to inspect
these model apartments. The star-spangled
ladies, having fallen heavily on the notion
of “modern” flats that include no play-
ground for the kiddies, except the same old
garbage-lined back streets, coldly remarked
that the Sydney system of housing workers
appeared to perpetuate most of the errors
American civic authorities had discarded
quite 10 years ago. After this, we’re not
hungering for any criticism for a week or
two.
Tours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Portrait Being Slashed by Militant Suffragette.
‘CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
•
■m
S' .* J*
535
M
mp'-m
®K.
3'tJfS l
i. rf I." - -^r- r - M 'g
" '
/A
'■. \Vi
rW^SPO
./>
PPM
■AS
‘N >4.
'■:- ■
wmMMSm
;«Kitertiste%
'Mil 1
i fcsC
Si
ilir
y .' • Jfe -X- v?-,.-'. v< <£ «*
K £4
JJiJ
■
i IS
II
-i?
»a-&
? i
-> s
*•'s /
fr
/
>■„ /,-'
'. ' - - ; r
smmkm Jk
[*VQ I/
• > . v - .>•*' i f
illlii
- *'.fv< ,/>
H& |
M k\
; s
- 1
n
isrs
f> '• !
L>J=
f r-v
&7.t
5^
v ml \
V? s*
'■*
>-3' .^-
OT 5
m
U W»
SlSil il
try
aae
was
safe
w -mi ft
/m
v /
«2p**
«f*afcn
.
XM
rr
• V?/
' :
jB m
£<x
i i
\\
:5x
JsMI,
/£•»
i!\M
f / —sft A’i y ...#
:XS
,n
, &r - /
C :
mm • i
|M\ /
w
m
irs
■W.’A
V
M
.
m
H
«S
r
M
HHI
H
mm
is
»'
%
i
K 9?
n
wjp
o
f
n>
i
mm
Si’S
<*
fc
s
IP
Sf
■ ■
;4
G
&
>m
MfegS
'wfvWl •
f
m- :■'
85
r
r ,r
’mmymi
I
«#*?
P?f
W(Ji7
7^
> V v/
XS
I///
LO'./_
W!
mSmim l
1
<msos
■ -*s s.sy ,<•
£■ . j, J
//yryy'y'i'yif
/ :/ $m
Wm<f .SM
&
iii
WSSB
#
.45
1
m>W.
■'s:Wmw
/~ isj
Ji!S' '-T <
; vt^T
m
%¥
s\
w
T-S?
s..
|.4vggtfkp.
f&jM&yC: .-- ■
m/
■**“ s<f •■’ ■ „-y*
&-;y
m
.1
U'V-
ttMi
iP; |
m
m
m
S®!
-■ • - ; -'
■v\-:
«
li
«BS
p&gf" rffl*
'r-2'if. :'.rWi t !'S^rf^ i '.
vCo: v u'V,i-.v---'r^: J -
m
W'A- V ,£i
1 io4 r
#
;< . p. -k ' y.
:f yy
m
,f « £ w
mm >mr^, Ka ,^
s
m
obra,” Tshe Boot PolisK.
( CHunder Loo,
•'Of Akim Foo,
.'Suffers for the
i Suffrage too.
Rre the shocked
Attendant can
Baulk the vandal’
Wretched plan,
Slash ! The deed is
D one ! But he
Beams on all
Delightedly.
All the women’s
Suffrage packs
Can’t dim “ COBRA’
With an axe !


FARMER’S SPECIAL OFFER
IN PICCADILLY STRIPE PYJAMAS.
•trot
Farmer’s Pyjamas are faultlessly-cut, perfect-fitting
Garments, with a smartness which pleases most particular
men.
In the Marlboro’ Pyjamas featured, we offer exceptional
value. They are made of Cashmere, with neat Bradford
Collars, in Cream with Mauve, Pink, Grey, Green and Sky
block stripes, similar to the illustration.
The- Value cannot be overpraised. It is rare indeed that
such distinctive garments are offered at the price.
Price, 6/9 Suit, or 3 Suits for 20/-
Farmer’s Pay Carriage to Any Part of Australia.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS,
FREE!
<5
V'- ::
m
ih
m
TO
CYCLISTS
An Interesting and
Instructive 52-Page Booklet
ENTITLED
'All About Cycling”
All Cyclists will appreciate a copy
of our latest issue of this fine pro-
duction ; it deals with all phases
of Cycling, including selection of
Machine, Gears, etc, Touring,
Road and Track Racing, Train-
ing, and the proper fitting and
care of Tyres.
YOU CAN HAVE A COPY
FOR THE ASKING.
ENCLOSE PENNY STAMP WITH
POSTAL APPLICATION TO
COVER COST OF
MAILING
CALL OR
WRITE
AT ONCE
* *
•DUNLOP
RUBBER GO.
108 Flinders St.,
Melbourne; 255
Clarence St., Sydney.
67 King Sl, Perth,
103-105 Flinders St.,
Adelaide; 268-2/4
Adelaide St., Brisbane. 95
Courtenay PI., Wellington,
and, 116 Worcester Street _
Christchurch,
d
/
•«*V>
1.
DUNLOP
-KELLY
*TYRES
are Solid Rubber Tyres,
that do not come off,
feeing made of best Para
Rubber, they run for
years, ensuring you
comfortable driving
and freedom from
Coachbuilder’s Repairs.
Fitted from per pair.
Let us forward you our
Illustrated Price List
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sjdaee,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Chriatehareh.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 20, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Review of Reviews Steads gave their
second winter At Home in the Repertory
Theatre Club rooms last week. Just as it
appears to be Mr. “Snowy” Baker’s mission
in life to promote fights, so it is the Titian-
haired Steadlet s game to promote smoking
and conversation. Her late father-in-law
used to refer to her as “Jenny Wren”—
why, 1 know not; but as is so often the
case with these family jokes, it was in-
vanably regarded as very good humor. In
the midst of the prevailing flow of reason
and nicotine, it is her custom to flutter
about and feed the collective Brain with
soup and sandwiches. (The provender gives
a subtle idea of the quality of the assembled
intellect. A coarser crowd , would be sup-
plied with beer and Bolognas.) A cute
notion of her very own is to get the cloak-
room maid to label all-comers, and thus do
away with the need for introductions. The
political figureheads, who loomed up amidst
fast month’s smoke, were conspicuously
absent—out on the cold, chilly path of
electioneering.
Not satisfied with this burst of hospita-
lity the same indefatigable lady proceeded
next to give a party for Little Foulet, the
h rencli artist, who has been painting Mel-
bourne in mist which, as I always say, is
so much more respectable than painting it
red. Tlie festivity occurred among his pic-
tures in the highest room of the lofty Centre-
way. Tea was drawn up from the bowels
°* building by a dumb waiter, and one
of h oulet s fellow students (down, fluttering
heart, or I shall take a broom-liandle to you)
passed round cakes. His face was distract-
mgly rouged and powdered. I haven’t seen
anything lovelier since the plank-walking
show-girls of the Revue left us. He handled
the provisions like a perfect lady. In fact,
everything about him was so adorable that
the men-folk waxed jealous and threatened
to forcibly wash him, which would have
spoiled him completely, not to mention the
fact that in the struggle he might have got
broken or scratched.
Mrs. Stead perched an old-gold plush hat,
like a saucerful of gold-bricks, on her above-
mentioned copper locks. The effect was
highly affluent. Mrs. Boyd talked politics.
Mrs. Marsh (one of the Reidys, of Marcus
Clarke fame) countered with a picturesque
dress of black velvet. Mrs. Marcus Mclner-
ney, fair and wrapped in grey squirrel, inti-
mated that she and her husband are going to
England in November to see her people.
They come from the same part of Northum-
berland as the Steads. Mrs. Mather was
there ; also Mrs. Gordon Smith, whose hus-
band has a military job in Sydney. She
wore brown velvet —and brown eyes. Dr.
Moloney’s red bow tie was much admired.
It is the smallest he has worn to date. The
smaller a red bow tie is the less it is disliked
—I mean the more it is admired. His
daughter displayed a good complexion, black
hair and brown furs.
An interesting show will pervade the
Athenaeum Upper Room from the 3rd to the
15th of August. Percy Lindsay’s paintings,
G. Courtney Benson’s work. Stockfield’s fur-
niture, and a spread of caricatures, etchings
and color work from Hal Gye will all be on
together.
Miss Ivy, youngest daughter of the late
üßaronet Clarke, is said to be engaged to
;Mr. Bob Knox.
_ Tlje Flying Peer, Lord Carbery, who fell
jinto ; the English Channel last week, is
siqarnqd to Josie Metcalfe, of Bananaland.
I into the sea and so on for fun, his
;-income - : as well as hers placing him far
qbeyond the need of aviation-for-profit. Her
'brother drifted round social Melbourne for
a space last year without doing any particu-
lar damage. He was in a Footguards Regi-
ment for about 10 days, but finding the
strain on his intellect too excessive, resigned.
He was understood to be here on a rest-cure
trip—but again it might only have been
with the object of dodging the absentee land-
tax.
The Plaza ran a series of dancing compe-
titions last week. On Monday ordinary
waltzing (which has had a slump lately
through ragtime) was judged. Tuesday
evening was given up to the Veletto (a new
and rare bird which only a few daring ones
pursue) ; Wednesday saw the good old
Two Step galloped ; on Thursday the Hesi-
tation Waltz (which is the latest with
Sassiety, mv dear) was celebrated —the only
adequate word, I do assure you, for this
most gradual measure; and on Saturday
there was a children’s carnival of ragtime.
More Leagues—this time one in the in-
terests of Music, as though an art which
is pursued with relentless vigor on billions
of dreadful instruments all over this vast
continent, daily and nightly—as though, I
repeat scornfully, it needed any aid. As
well offer a peanut to an adult mammoth.
To resume, Miss Allen and Miss Rowe are
the secretaries of the superfluous movement,
and the Lyceum Club is pushing earnestly
at it from behind. The Club (which
perches in bow windows and an eyrie several
storeys high at cross roads in the busiest
part of Collins-street) met recently to hear
Fritz Hart on the subject. Fritz ife an
eager little man whose raven locks stand up
from his brow like a wall that has had ink
spilt on it. You will remember that he took
violent exercise, for years, in the conduct-
or’s chair of a J.C.W. orchestra. What he
doesn’t know about the way to boom. music
might profitably be thrown to the house-dog.
Two other men turned up—Bauer, who sup-
plied some solid criticism, and Martin, who
stands for the business side of the ethereal
Goll. Mrs. Ivy Deakin Brookes, an ardent
musician, was also present, likewise Mrs.
Lawyer Wischer, Mrs. Phillips and Mrs.
Derbyshire.
Melbourne’s proudest rag-shop is giving a
nine days’ tea party, and the Very Best and
the Next Bests are crowding forward to
take nourishment and listen to Di Gilio’s
band and inspect' the newly-added flat. All
the furnishings are made in the firm’s own
factories. Tasmanian oak is used, and
the walls are completely panelled in this
wood in a copy of the Adams period.
Adams was an English contemporary of
the ornate. Louis Fifteenth, and he pranced
in cherubic wreaths for decoration, but
seriously ignored the.gilding.
There are massage, manicure and hair-
dressing rooms fitted with every electrical
contrivance for the temporary fixing-up, or
general repair, of lovely women. She may
have hair dressed either by a man or
by a woman, and if there is any serious
public demand for it, the firm will consider
the proposition of supplying a monkey or
even a Barbary ape. No reasonable modern
requirement will be overlooked by this con-
cern, whose motto is and always has been,
“March with the times and the imbecilities
thereof.” There is a resort where moneyed,
if not lovely, woman may get into her new
frock, just as though she were at home, and
another place where the Most Expensive
can try on and buy exclusive models with-
out the Cat of moderate means getting a
glimpse of them.
Waite, R.8.A., who painted pictures be-
fore impressionism was born, is showing his
work at the Athenaeum for another week
from the day this issue of The Bulletin
sees the light. Last Thursday’s opening
show was like a Rip Van Winkle resurrec-
tion. Waite himself, bent and grey-bearded,
hobbled, round with Gyles Turner. Nice old
ladies, in bonnety-hats, got their spectacles
trained on to the catalogues and peered into
the canvases with reminiscent emotions.
The heroine in the pictures wears the clothes
that they wore in girlhood. A girl in a
garden, “waiting for the postman,” has
frills on her skirt, such as one sees on hams,
and which are just returning to the most
upjto-date confections. She also wears a
painfully tight-fitting bodice with a flat,
stiff posy on her breast, and a plethoric ter-
rier lies in a stupor at her feet.
There is a fine picture of a sunset on big
spaces and huge flocks of sheep. The early
Victorian sheep-runs don’t seem to have
differed much, as regards their general ap-
pearance, from ours. Old Saltwater River
is peaceful and unruffled in a part which is
now edged with factories, and the old-time
Ferry is swamped and swarming with sub ;
urbanites whenever a Flemington face is
run.
A clever bit of portrait work is most in-
teresting because the beautiful model was
the model for the famous ‘‘Chloe.” This is
Chloe in her clothes, and she is fascinating
both ways. The rakish Waite of yore just
showed up the fine texture of the skin at
her throat, and put a cunning little red bow
to tie her low collar.
Geoff. Kiddle, the tall, aquiline-featured
young squatter whom Gossip engaged to
Auntie Phipps, of the Fuller household, is
returning to Australia after a military so-
journ in India. Melbourne girls are anxious,
for busines? reasons, to know if he is still
eligible. His station has every modern com-
fort, including a perfect cook, a fleet
of motor-cars and a whole stable full of
polo ponies, and there is many a gentle
maiden hereabouts who would consider the
world well lost for such assets. His sister,
Rita, who was termed by a discriminating
G.G. “the smartest girl in Australia,” is
returning with him for a brief stay. Her
stays are always brief. As regards cease-
less motion she more resembles a meteor
than a girl.
The Leslie Stuarts have bought a garden
at Macedon and are going to put a bungalow
in it. This is the rational procedure. Any-
one can build a bungalow in a few weeks,
but it takes time and genius to create a
garden.
Anabel, Brenda and Maisie Syme, of Rock-
ingham, together with Marjorie, Hilaria and
Joan Syme, of Banool, have invited their
friends to a Fancy Dress Party in the Re-
creation Hall, Kew, on August 8. The
revels begin at 5.30 p.m. and end at 11.
What will occur if the guests decline to edge
off at 11 o'clock I don’t quite know. _ Pre-
sumably thev will-be ejected from the pre-
mises or find that the refreshments .have
been cut off at the meter.
Commander Corneille, -.of the Belgian
cadet-ship, sends a friendly coo-eer from the
Mediterranean. You, my dear, with your
Macaulay-like memory for events of sbcial
moment, will recall that one of the‘fascinat-
ing navigator’s cadets remained in Melbourne
to become a naturalised citizen and work at
a local electrical job. Of course there was
a Woman in the case. She was a sweet
little Tooraketty flapper.
Miss Jessie Binnie, one of the Chevy
Chase Binnies, of Brighton, who migrated
to Sydney, is engaged to a Maorilander—•
Mr. Sydney Letts, of Ilokianga. This sounds
like hokey-pokey, a vulgar drink sold, I be-
lieve, for by men with wheelbarrows, but
there is no relationship.
Molly Carew, the Richmond girl who used
to give songs at the piano, on Margaret
Cooper lines, has returned from the Cold
Country wearing an engagement ring. The
slave of it is Dr. Walter Heaton-
hyphen-Smith, of Stoke-on-liyphen-Trent,
who first met Molly in these parts. The
ceremony is to happen early next year in
England. While away Molly did sketch
work at some of the Stoll music-halls, and
at Manchester was conductor of the revue,
“A Year in an Hour,” having under her a
chorus of 45 and an orchestra of 25. All the
time her inseparable pal, who has returned
with her, was pretty Daisy Gove, remem-
bered locally as a respectable amateur, and
a particularly taking Mina in “Miss Hook
of Holland.” The girls came out on the
boat with Melba, who said the customary
nice things of Daisy’s voice.
A nice-looking Conservatorium pupil
named Phillips, with much music in her
warble, recently showed what she could do
in a recital on her own in the Auditorium.
She had a fine house, and the customary
vegetable tributes were handed up. Many
good judges acclaim her as a Coming Cham-
pion in the musical line.
The two shrieks of fashion in the tram
were denouncing the folly of a sister who
had exceeded the operation limit and was tot-
tering on her social tea-rounds a mere spectre
of her former self. “My dear!” moaned the
louder shriek, “it is simply dreadful the way
she has been treated by the doctors. Why,
the woman has been positively whittled
away!”
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
On Saturday the Appendreena Amateur Dramatic
Club played “Eliza Comes to Stay,” and in spite of
drenching rain, flooded streets and other drawbacks,
the Walkerville Hall was filled. And there are still
those who claim that the self-sacrificing Spirit of
Friendship is dead. It’s a good play—with smart
dialogue and a general air of briskness. Miss Zoe
Reid. (unbelievably weird of appearance in the first
act, as, of course, she was meant to be), and suitably
charming afterwards, acted well. So did Leonard
Chamberlain, Talbot Smith and a number of others.
Miss Reid wore some delectable frocks, especially
a mauve garment in the last act. What the audience
wore d couldn’t see,' as they were swathed in coats,
furs and other draught-protectors.
The old scholars’ dinner of both Saint Peter’s and
Prince Alfred’s occurred this week, also an old
scholars’ football match, and the inter-collegiate foot-
ball match. And then there were inter-collegiate
boat races on the Torrens, for which Lady Galway
handed out the prizes. It has been a period of great
pride and joy for the pedagogues.
The Orpen picture still draws huge crowds to the
Art Gallery, about 50 per cent, of whom give vent
to their harrowed feelings in the open columns of
the dailies later on. A go-ahead firm has turned an
amended edition of the canvas into an advertisement,
and there threatens to be a permanent block in the
traffic of the street where it hangs. Meanwhile
Orpen has been written to by the Gallery authorities
for his own version of the meaning of the picture,
with a view to restoring peace.
Two ■ mayoral balls rolled at Unley last week.
The Galways were at the first, and the second was a
“military night” in honor of Colonel Irving and
other of our defenders. Tea houses, rustic bridges,
wisteria, chrysanthemums and Japanese lanterns had
turned the Town Hall into a temporary Japanese
village, and the supper rooms were bedecked with
roses and sweet-pea. The crowds were large and
brilliant on both occasions—also hungry and thirsty.
On Tuesday the Governor gave a lecture at the
Royal Geographical Society’s Rooms on his experiences
in Nigeria. The audience included, besides Lady Gal-
way and her daughter and Miss Macaulay, the
Charles Goodes, Mr. and Mrs. W. Pope, and the
Bishop' of Papua, the Leonard Bakewells, Canon and'
Mrs. Girdlestone, the Mayor Simpsons, Mr. W. J.
Sowden and Mr. Piper.
We are to have a series of chamber music concerts
at the Lister Hall in Hindmarsh-square, commencing
on August 25. Mr. Eugene Alderman, Mr. William
Silver and Mr. Harold Parsons are responsible for
the scheme, and modern music will figure largely in
the programmes.
The marriage of Estelle, daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Johnson, of Mount Gambier, will take place shortly
at that south-eastern town. The bridegroom, Dr.
Herron, arrived from India on Tuesday last.
From England comes news of the marriage of the
Rev. G. V. Blois, one-time Anglican clergyman at
Renmark, to the Hon. Hester Pakington, daughter of
the late Lord and Lady Hampton. She is 21 years
young.
Bauer, complacent and grand, has already
thundered on the Auditorium piano for two
concerts, and is billed to thunder some more
this week. On Saturday afternoon the Soul-
ful got in out of the sunshine and basked
in his rendering of Beethoven’s music. The
Unsoulful went to the'football or tennis, or
got intoxicated in public-houses, or other-
wise lowered themselves. Need I mention
where I was? Amongst the audience I
noticed the Von Pinschofs—a perfect phal-
anx of them; also Theodore Fink, who was
almost hidden behind round, shining spec-
tacles. Theodore a "nears to bring every-
female relative he owns to these entertain-
ments, and they all sit through the proceed-
ings absolutely simmering with joy. Another
patron was Mrs. Carslake, a Sydney girl
who is also a confirmed simmerer when in
the presence of classical noise. Bauer has
been fussed over and fed, and in general
cruelly over-entertained, but he still keeps
his stolid German calm. When the break-
ing point is reached, and as a result of too
much free food, attention, etc., he runs
amok and has his hair cut or something, I
will let you know by wire.
The Fireflies shone for the first time on
Saturday night. They are Vaudevillains of
sorts, and have bugs embroidered on their
clothes. Also, a large silver-and-gold bug
climbs up their scenery. Artist Hugh Pat-
terson is responsible for the backgrounding,
which runs to monster stripes of black and
scarlet, stencilled out in black velvet. The
packed audience was reminiscent of St.
Kilda and South Yarra in summer-time,
being chiefly youths of the high-collared type
and girls with crApe-de-ehine Mouses, fur
coats and accurately groomed hair,
Conway, the accompanist of the show, was
_a, _ Melbourne Gonservatorium pupil who
at the London Jtoyal Academy. The
ftther Fireflies showed their appreciation of
this fact by pushing the big piano forward
for him, lifting its lid, and -announcing
proudly that he would inflict a Brahms
recital on the helpless gathering. MiSs
Soprano Franceska Durre has sung at
Covent Garden in grand opera. Miss Essie
McNeil has a rich contralto..with a Wag-
nerian touch in her deep notes. There is
also a plump and sentimental tenor with a
roving, blue eye, who gives encores until his
fellows threaten him from the wings. In
addition to the usual comic characters there
is Maisie Posner, a small soubrette with
lovely legs. Her work is of the Daisy
Jerome pattern mixed with a strain of
Pantomime Boy. There is a terrible lot in
this programme for the money.
Ever abreast of the times, I hasten to in-
timate that Mr. King, of some British regi-
ment whose name I momentarily disremem-
ber, has arrived in our midst from Sydney
to instruct the local forces in the soldiering
art. He transpired this week, and will re-
main for a year. He conducted a social
campaign in Sydney and environs that was
almost Napoleonically successful, his one-
stepping alone putting him well into the
Moltke class, so far as the hairpin-strewn
fields of Terpsichore were concerned.
Tours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—Still going strong
m
\Lt A i
X
9%
A
w
/y
y,
1
J
2L
i
i^i
2S
tUU>-
&
\m
&
%
m
/h
~1
SA
w
y.
/
A
Y
&
U-
(T>
I —-s iJ——7 " l —
nt
a
Said
For the man who “knows, ” nothing else but “Johnnie Walker is
quite good enough. You never hear “the man who knows ”ordering
“whisky. ” He always says “Johnnie Walker" because it is just as
easy and much soft r and it makes no difference where
for it is obtainable everywhere and everywhere guaranteed the same
superior quality.
0
inh l* 1 | Every Drop over
IXE-D jLf&JP©! IO Years Old
In Non-refillaMe Bottles.
To safeguard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of the past. First & foremost to see
that the margin of stocks over sales is alzvuys large enough to maintain our unique quality.
Untiled only gy JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
And at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.


3<*k
' //
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the e&sy
task with
Bon Ami.
Boh Ami
&
, M*rC Scratched Mw
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
TOT
= For
Painted
Wood
Work
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint-
removes the
dirt only.
Bon Ami
*m*SnU**si
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
[I
“dilsculapius”: In ancient Greece they used to
elect temples over natural springs and give to each
a titular diety. t\e moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water —only our
methods coffer somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm- of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
. “Figaro”: Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N Q
but close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as' an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa.
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head
ache if you take a bottle of “Helidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who.have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HELIDON.
ABORICIN
ALITIES
Marloo : A farmer named Baillie of
Copmanhurst (N.S.W.), claims to possess a novel
recorder of seismic disturbances in the form of a
lagoon, the basin of which, it is believed, was once
a crater. The water, at times, for no conceivable
reason, becomes very muddy, while that in an
adjoining hole remains as clean and clear as cry-
stal. The muddiness, it has been observed, occurs
simultaneously with earthquake shocks, and was very
noticeable at the times of the San Francisco, Maori-
land, Messina and later upheavals.
ROUGH WEATHER.
OFFICRR: “ You've got your sea legs all
right.”
PASSENGER: “ I'm used to it.”
OFFICER : “What! Follow the sea?”
P ASSENGER : “ No, ticket-collector on a merry
go-round.”
“Mimosa”: “Vigilans” (B. 28/5/’l4) says
that the black cockatoo of the Grampians is tipped
with yellow, and that of the North and Kimberley
with red. “Forest Devil’’ (B. 25/6/’l4) asserts that
both kinds abound in the mountain ranges around
Woolgoolga and Glenreagh. All I know about the
matter is that the yellow variety came on to the
Barcoe (Q.) to settle for a brief period about three
years ago. Judging by what I saw they were old
friends of the red species and were *on the most
familiar terms with one another, and were always
in the same flock. Out there the black screeches
always come and go before heavy rain sets in.
When they’re not coming or going they’re generally
at the old address.
“P°nui”: “P.X.” (B. 21/5/14) says the
Uuu gum lands of M.L. should be re-planted with
kauri because nothing else will grow after that
vegetable. Wrong. Fruit trees will, for one thing,
and quite a lot of gum land is being perforated
with them. Land values are far too high for afforesta-
tion. I'ruit is not the only thing that can be
grown on the gum land. Here is a chunk of evi-
dence given before the Royal Commission, which is
now investigating various matters in that locality:—
, ' Robert Rowan, Fields Inspector (Department
of Agriculture), stated that he had established n
f P? u ™ ental i P lot u P°o a small portion of gum
land near Albany. He commenced in 1919 cleirinf
‘ a e J:Vnd n f ru ?’ P lou ghing it. and dressing it with
l llme a ?°st of about 355. an acre He
sowed it in oats and obtained a splendid cron lip
was satisfied that if the land was well worked it
would glow anything*. Lucerne had been a remark
pioperly worked, was good enough for anything. I "’’
“ , , eve " if “ p - x -’s” statement was correct, it
ould not pay to plant kauri extensively. A kauri
.ree takes at least CO years to attain anything like
milling size. I know one, planted over 70 years
ago, which is only about a foot in diameter. The
big kauris which are being cut down to-day are
alleged to be anything over 2000 years old.
“Harrison O.”: Roache lmd bought a new
reaper and binder, so his old one was being raffled
(tickets two-and-six each), the draw to take place in
le piesence °f the shire secretary and the editor
of the Jan Juo Cultivator. When four days were
e „ r t 0 buy tickets > Da nny Moody hastened
o Roache s farm and asked for No. 24. The ticket
did nT r l<L ‘T'° t 0 ?” demanded Danny. Roache
did not know. Moody spent the best part of the
day , hunting down ticket-purchasers, until he found
that No. 24 was held by Charles Living. The elab-
oiately casual manner in which Danny offered to
D y tlcket ma(l e Living suspicious, but after
a rambling debate lie parted witli it for four shil-
, The J raw took P lacc - 24 was the winning
number. The fact that two of Jan Juc’s noblest
sons were present at the ceremony did not prevent
dark suspicions entering the minds of other ticket-
holders. They desired to know why Danny had
numher ‘ u^u 1I “ ious to » et h °M of that particular
number. Mr. Moody was present to explain. “Well
y see, it wuz loike this, y> see. M’ ould sow she
give bm-th to a litter o’ sivin, an’ th’ day o’ th’
r‘ H WUZ ®, ivin> and wheil th ’ mail comes there
wuz a cheque f r me from th’ butter-r factory, and
got thini/’ 2 f ’’ n Vi " P ° Und exact Aftfl er that Oi
got thinkin,, an Oi ses t’ mesel’, Oi says: ‘Danny, y>
ould fod o an Oirishman, Oi ses, ’tis shure tl/ tip
m’ ’!■ , r ' l , ( f per an ’ binder-r. So Oi did th’ sum in
i uJ u !~ th } ee sivins arre twinty-fourr—an’ Oi
bought th ticket from ould Charlie Living, as him-
self can tell y\”
‘Quidam”: The person who coined the
phrase ‘Windy Wellington” was a good judge of
weather. There is more wind in the
capital of Maoriland to the square inch
than m most places to the square mile.
But you have to go to the hills to meet it
in its heavyweight form. Out Makara
way there is a concrete breakwind on
the top of one valley, because carts on
the road used to be blown over. A
stranger smiles when he hears that
it is dangerous to attempt to reach
(say Terawhiti) on a windy day, but
he doesn’t smile when he reaches
the place where a horse and a man
were toppled over. The wind doesn’t
Rive him reason to smile. To an Aus-
tralian there is something altogether un-
usual about that wind, concentrated as it
is up funnel-like valleys. It comes at
you as if it were alive, slaps you, swings
you, bellows at you, wrestles with you,
and evinces generally the character of a
supremely evil-tempered demon, one that
is worth defying and taking a fall out of.
, ' er f “ much that is genuine and virile
about him. Beat him and you glow with
a pride of a doughty battle won; lose
and he chucks you over a hill, and what
with the rolling shingle and his playful
assistance you will probably land in the
cieek 400 ft. below. But he is a fighter
and a battler and a stayer, and I take off
my hat to him. If I didn’t he would
U f i oT ™‘ None of the effeminate little
main and b ß] Ut hlm ‘ „, He exercises on the bounding
main and sleeps on the South Pole.
’: In Papua a young man’s
fancy lightly turns to thoughts of Paradise birds.
No wonder; for, during a morning stroll, anywhere
out of coo-ee of the capital, one can see numbers of
anyThi'rfrom *2? 7** Mch in the
anytmng from £1 per skin up to £lO. Though
hv 6 m 13 “ Pe " alty ° f £2O0 ’ besides gaol, provided
y the authorities for anyone found with the plumes
in his possession, the risk is taken, recently wUh
gloomy results to several poachers. The correspond-
ence of two of these showed that they were getting
together an extra big parcel of birds, with the S
ssssnsz pr . oposed having a w ° rid ’ s tour-
lart of the drafted scheme was set down thusly—
-15' V ‘* , * V *' J * pan ’ Vans-Siberia,
«*■»•. etc., *«
s» T %SffiJ ,d! <F “ tC,K ladies).
To contingencies, 500 “King Birds.’’
This schedule continued till the festive young men
were bade at Sydney, where they reckoned on Lving
sufficient on hand to propel them on to Papua
THE STRENUOUS LIFE.
CADGER : “Can you spare a pore bloke a trifle, Mister?”
MISTER: “What! A big- able-bodied man like you begging?”
CADGER : “Well, yer got to be big an' strong ter beg these days wiv'out gettin' hurt."
“Shay”: I refuse to thrill over the doings
of the record-breaking overland-cyclist. In fact, I
chill when a new one crops up. No doubt they ’in-
terest and amuse city dwellers as the stage and
picture-show bushmen and diggers do; but to the
outbacker their doings are about as interesting as
the record of a walking tourist would be to a
Murrumbidgee whaler. Every year thousands of
bush-workers ride as far, and farther, in pursuit of
crusts, and not fame. Often the bushworker cyclist
runs out of rations, gets bogged, runs into flooded
creeks and rivers and all the other things the advertis-
ing overlander gets such “dope” for doing. For
instance, ex-Speaker McDonald, when he tours his
electorate, which extends from Ravenswood and
Charters Towers out to the S.A. border and up to
the Gulf, does most of his electioneering on a bike
and wheels himself from Hughenden out to suburbs
like Croydon, Burketown, etc. Hundreds of pen-
chasing shearers, delayed at one shed and sprinting
to another, reel off straightaway records and think
nothing of it. But for genuine overland-eyelin°- the
organisers who go out per bike from Bourke, Charle-
ville, Broken Hill and Longreach take the cake.
Senator Rae, Senator Barnes, Dave Bowman, Jack
Andrews, Ted Bowman and hosts of others could if
they were given to bragging, tell stirring tales’ of
weeks and months of biking, not at picked seasons,
but in flood and drought, that would make the over-
land record-breakers look like suburban kids on toy
tricycles.
Ding Bat” : To play a game of billiards
on the country billiard table in the King Country
(M.L.) requires no ordinary amount of skill. Not
six miles from where the writer of this par. lives
a most exciting game had to be postponed sine die
because the spot ball fell through a hole in the
middle of the table, and from there through a
hole in the floor, and was irrecoverable. And there’s
LEARAH T HIS LESSON.
INSTRUCTOR (after the demonstration): “Now,
you know what to do when I use that left
’ook on you again, don't yer?"
REGGIE: “Yes; give you in charge, you
cowardly brute."
no two sets of balls on Weni Wieihana’s table! Again,
at l’io Pio the white, spot and red cannot be distin-
guished by the ordinary bloke. However, the marker
can conduct the game correctly, as he knows each
ball by its shape. One is elliptical and the other
is a dashed sight more elliptical.
(Continued on page 24.)
TE MAORI SEE TE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
daJ.-Sfd re W etl <e^ e ViSiti ' ,g Maori chiefs
Py cripe, I see te proomin’ King,
I see King Tchorge te Fit’
(I peen te tree tay practising,
My pack he werry stiff),
CoS ’lvTng n fe ' ra hC k ° in he pend his P el] y to te
AnC * P l' °omin ’ 1 P6nd my pelly
I tell te manatcher te King:
T’at not te Maori way.”
He ket te spike rike anything,
An’ prurry quick he say:
“You ferra creep arong te groun’ an’ t’en pack out
to turn arounV’
I packing werry slow, you know, I prurry near’y
tummel town.
I see te proomin’ King or-right;
I see his missis, too,
An’ t’en I ket te prurry fright,
Py cripe, I terr-a you.
Ke cos’ me prenty proomin’ ut’ to puy te stockin’
an’ te suit,
A ”' poot* 0 Set Pr ° pCr pair of ruver y rangatira
I say, tena koo,” an’, of course,
Tchorge say “tena koe,” too ;
An’ t’en I pack out rike te horse
T’e way I terra you.
Te King he knoo te t’ing or too; he tell te ploke
put town te pline,
Cos’ when I pend my pelly town I pust my ploomin’
pant pehine.
maomland.
JOHN R. COLE.
Billy Bowang”: A word concerning
dugongs. One, Ebenezer Thorne was, I believe, the
pioneer of the sea-pig fisheries on the Queensland
coast, but owing to the want of enterprise on the
part of the governing powers of the Northern State,
the industry failed. I remember a man in Cardwell
who took the matter up with vigor. He was a little
chap with one small boat, and one pot for boiling
down the dugong’s fat, which he clarified and bottled
(mostly in Lome whisky bottles) and sent to Clay-
ton, chemist, of Townsville. Being much in want of
proper plant the enterprise was none too profitable.
In 1872, owing to the high price of beef, it was
suggested to the fisherman that there was money to
be made by slaughtering the dugongs and turning
them into pork. He started right away, and sold
the salted sea-pig at 3d. per lb. to sugar-planters
and others who required it. Some time later the
numerous community of faddists caused the price to
go up higher than either beef or mutton. The
dugongs are the most law-abiding creatures in our
waters, and there is not an ounce of fight in them.
They are very plentiful as far south as Moreton Bay
at certain times of the year. They come in each
evening from the deep water to the feeding grounds
like cattle following a familiar track. This is their
fatal error, for nets placed across the tracks will
always catch them. At the present time a dugong
hide fetches 4d. per lb., or from 16s. to 205., and
the oil from one is worth about £4 if properly
rendered.


We have received from the Board of Directors of the
REGENT PALACE HOTEL,
PICCADILLY CIRCUS, LONDON,
The following order, dated 6th February, 1914.
“ Messrs. BEALE & COMPANY LTD., Sydney, Australia.
11 The object of this letter to-day is that we wish you to make, on account of the Strand .Hotel Co. Ltd., to
be used in the Regent Palace Hotel, now in course of erection at Piccadilly Circus :
“ One full-sized Concert Grand Piano, in burr walnut, in the latest model , with just sufficient exterior
ornamentation to be dignified. We think it unnecessary to give you any instructions as to quality ,
etcetera, as you will know how to supply an article of the best, and you can put on the inside of the lid of
the piano (if you care to) 1 Made expressly for the Regent Palace Hotel, London, by Beale & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S. W., Australia .’ ”
“If the contractors keep to their time, the Regent Palace Hotel will be open by October next. It will be
the largest hotel , we think we may say, in Europe, having between one thousand and eleven hundred bedrooms.
If you can possibly do it, will you let us have the piano here for the opening of the House; if not, please let us
know in due course, so that an arrangement can be made for the temporary hire of one.”
The order came to us entirely unsolicited and unexpected. There can be no doubt
that it is meant as a compliment to Australia, for the STRAND PALACE
HOTEL, filled from the day of its opening, has had a great many guests from
this Hemisphere. It is to be expected that its immense popularity will be even exceeded
by that of the colossal caravanserai, the REGENT PALACE LIOTEL, built upon
an “island" site at Piccadilly Circus, therefore light, safe and airy. Anything under the
able management of the Directors of J. LYONS & CO. is sure to win the confidence
and approval of the public, for their enterprises are the most conspicuous success of modern
times in the World’s metropolis. Their one inflexible rule has always been: “Everything of
the very best and absolutely genuine.” No tips are allowed, no secret commissions, all
above-board and in favor of the public. And so in return they get public favor.
Beale & Co. Ltd. have repeatedly supplied Grand and Upright Pianos to these splendid
institutions. The amusing part is that we have been virulently attacked by the German
trade Press for thus invading Europe with high-priced pianos, because they reckon to
hold a mortgage over the piano-supply of Great Britain and of Australia in particular.
Beale Pianos are made by us only, sold under our own name only, and when they are offered without onr name be
sure it is a fraud.
20,000 BEALE PIANOS have been made by us in Australia.
Where easy terms are required we issue a free life policy, so that in case of death the instrument becomes the property
of the customer without any further payment, thus removing anxiety in time of trouble.
The Beale Factories are the largest of their kind in the British Empire, and are under the direction of one of the
world’s greatest experts, Major George D. Rose.
From Factory to Family.
Please let us send you a catalogue and circulars, no matter where you live. Easiest terms and best conditions
in the trade.
Kalophones, Gramophones, Records, Violins, Musical Instruments of all kinds and Sheet Music.
CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange .
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


PHILLIPS ORMONDE & CO., Consult-
ing Engineers, Patent and Trade Mark
Attorneys, 17 Queen Street (Lombard
Buildings), Melbourne. Established ISSS.
810-SHOWMEN!
'THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney,
CASTOR-OIL SALTS & DRUGS REPLACED
BY “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Delicious “fruit laxative” cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of old
and young folks.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
“California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a toripd liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all consti-
pation poison, waste matter, fermenting food
and bile gently moved out of your system by
morning without griping. Please don’t think
of “California Syrup of Figs” as a physic.
Don’t think you are drugging yourself or
your children. This delicious fruit laxative
cannot cause injury. Even a delicate child
can take it as safely as a robust man. It
is the most harmless, effective stomach, liver
and bowel regulator and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs,” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. Get the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
Company.” Refuse any other kind with
contempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is
sold by all leading chemists, 1/lid and 1/9.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you' get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
BRAND
ď
STUHR,
STUHR’S
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg.
Indents through European Exporters only.
“The Snake” : The chewing-gum hobby of
the U.S.A. people seems to have been getting on
“Hop’s” nerves-. (B. 18/6/’l4). Same with me.
So help me But, no ! Let there be peace ! I
was talking to a Yankee the other night when two
other meat-trusters from the same theatre passed—
a young man and a girl. Their relationship was
confidentially explained to me thus: “Say, that
boy’ll be marrying Luce [Lucy] if he doesn’t watch
out. Yessir; believe me. They swap gum.”
NO CHEAP IMITATION.
CUSTOMER: “ That's a copy of a Michael
Angelo. I saw the original in Florence.
ART DEALER: “ I'm not so sure if this one
isn' t the original. That's why I can't
lake less than Jos. for it."
Petramos” : Lately I have been observing
the goat at close quarters, and have discovered many
varieties. I found Caper particularis at Nyngan-on-
the-line. This species of goat carefully removes all
the buttons from clothes before devouring them. At
Tumut and Adelong are found the man-like goats
(C. liominaculus). Those animals take their meals
beneath clothes-lines, sitting in a long single file.
Father Qoat reaches up and pulls an article off the
lire, and eats the best part of it, passes the bones
over his shoulder to his wife, who eats, and, in turn,
hands the remnant along to the children. In this
manner the smallest kid gets the least to eat, which
is as it should be, and the clothes-winner of the
family gets most, which is equally as it should be.
The Canbelego goat is most to be admired for daring
and dexterity at meals. These goats (C. acrobaticus
Riclcardsii) are more considerate of the clothes on
the line. The male stands alongside the clothes-prop ;
T HE SABBATH SHOWS.
One of a parsonical deputation,
pleading with the Premier to shut up
Sunday picture shows in Melbourne,
insisted that there were occasions
when the people would go to church
if the picture theatres were closed.
THE PICTURE SHOWMAN: “Bit
they won't go into your show
even if you shut mine."
THE PARSON: “Sometimes they
will. On wet nights they
must turn in somewhere .”
Nan gets on his back, and Willie vaults from Mrs.
Coat’s back on to the line, and, running along the
wire, removes the pegs, allowing the dinner to fall
to the ground. If the rope-walking- goat is quick
enough in sliding down the prop he will find some-
thing to eat besides the pegs. It is generally con-
ceded that by this method goats may cat in compara-
tive safety. Goats eating clothes pulled down fre-
quently swallow the pegs, which is annoying to the
housekeeper and injurious to the goat. Whenever you
see a goat standing on its horns in a dead silence
(as is often the case at Cobar) you can rest assured
it has eaten a clothes-peg. Societies are now moving
in the matter of compelling householders to use
edible clothes pins.
* * * *
“Aloysius”: In his remarks (B. 11/6/’l4)
on the administration of the law in Victoria (and
I suppose this applies elsewhere) “Cowslip” made no
reference to the wide powers of country police-
men under the J.P. system. Not only does the
arrest of an offender lie entirely at their discretion,
but the degree of punishment rests also with the
John Hops. It is not suggested that they em-
bellish or extenuate facts in giving evidence. The
evidence before most country benches is generally
of the most formal character, consisting of a state-
ment by the policeman as to the time and occasion
of the arrest, an admission or denial of guilt by the
prisoner, and a remark by the J.P. that 10s or
three days will meet the case. As a rule, it takes
more time to count out the fine money than it does
to try the case. It is in the choice of justices to
officiate that the John Hop’s power lies. Take the
average country town, in which there are half a
dozen J’s.P. The local policemen are familiar with
their peculiarities on and off the bench, and know
pretty well what their attitude is on all charges
brought before them. They know, for instance,
that Worritt, a local preacher, looks on Drink with
abhorrence, and is notorious for fining drunks
heavily to bring them round to his point of view;
that Nibs, the editor, is gouty and has a temper
like the Devil’s sister; that Oats, a good-humored
cocky, looks on all but obscenity with a lenient eye,
and so on. Most of the cases on the charge sheet
can be attended to by a single justice, and the
John, weighing up the merits of the particular
case, calls on “the right man” to fix things up.
Then, again,, under the Vic. Police Offences Act, a
man cannot get reasonably drunk without standing
a good chance of having five or six charges brought
against him. Thus it is an offence to be drunk in an
hotel, another to be drunk in the street, a third to
be drunk at. all, while every normal inebriate wants
to fight someone and forgets occasionally to bowdler-
ise his language. So with one or all of five charges
to bring against his man, and half a dozen J’s.P. of
vaiying temperaments and tempers to select from,
the John can adjust things to a nicety. Under this
system the man in the lock-up never knows how
he will fare. Warrigal William, on one of his
quarterly sprees, breaks out and fractures every
commandment and police regulation, within search
at the time, and next morning is fined half a crown
for being drunk and given a shilling to go and buy
a hair with. On the other hand, Scotty O’Brien
may get a little over the odds, and, on his way to
the “boob” call the John an apostrophe and find
that he has to answer three or four charges which
bring him in a couple of months. This only goes
to show that getting drunk, like everything else in
life, is mostly a gamble.
“McNorth”: Amongst other things, the
suspension bridges of inland Papua are evidence of
the engineering ability of the natives of those moun-
tainous. regions. Inland Papua is mostly hills, and
the day’s march usually consists of scrambling down
a declivity of one in two for half a day, crossing a
creek at the bottom, and climbing the next precipice
to camp. Distance, as the arrow flies, about one
mile. But in places where the ravines are suffi-
ciently narrow the niggers have swung suspension
bridges, constructed entirely of lawyer-cane. Two
foundation canes are passed across and secured to
trees on the banks. These are then decked with
split cane, a hand-rail is stretched across, and the
bridge is complete. The whole affair is about 2ft.
wide and anything up to 30vds. long. The nigs, run
across these structures with 501 b. loads on their
backs unite unconcernedly; but the nervous white
man generally experiences several kinds of thrills
as the unstable-looking fabric sw’ays with the motion
of his body, and he looks at the straight drop of
several hundreds of feet through the climate to the
rocky river beneath him. However, the bridges are
stronger than they look, and are seldom allowed to
decay, as the annual floods carry them away, and
they have to be replaced by new ones. They save
many a hard day’s tramping; nevertheless, many
a hardened old prospector and magistrate has halted
midway on a cane bridge and alternated a pra3’er
for .deliverance with brimstone curses on the short
cut as he clung to the swaying hand-rail for his life.
THE CALL OF THE SIIEDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Come, roll her up, and strap her tight, and hoist
Matilda high,
Then strain your sweethearts to your breasts, and!
kiss them all “Good-bye.”
From out the rolling Western Plains, agleam with
glistening dew,
From river bends where campfires blaze, the Sheds,
are calling you.
The Sheds are calling you,
The Sheds are you,
Ye fifty thousand men! The Sheds are call-
ing you.
I own "C loVe the little town of Sydney by the Sea,
But when the month of June comes round the place
grows stale—to-me. _ _
I’ve simply got to jerk my job. A fever fills my
breast,
I seem to hear upon the air the Mandate of the
West—-
The Mandate of the West,
The Mandate of the West,
Is, “Come and shear your country's sheep that’s
mustering in the West.”
By rail and coach, by bike and boot, to Opal Town
I’ll go,
And in the hut at Momba Shed Matilda down I’ll
throw ;
There’ll be no stint of welcome, and there'll be no
dearth of beers,
For all the Mulga townships love the Soldiers of the
Shears—
The Soldiers of the Shears,
The Soldiers of the Shears,
Nor is their kindness wasted on the Soldiers of the
Shears.
Pale pulses life in Sydney Town, where velvet sheaths
the claw,
But blood runs red in Mulgaland beneath the primal
law,
A chapter of Australian life in sheds we weave by
day,
Then, when our forty-eight is in, we make the night-
time gay.
We make the night-time gay,
We make the night-time gay,
There’s life, real life, when we come in to Wagga,
Bourke or Hay.
Because whene’er my hat is on my roof is thatched,
I strain
Impatient, hot, the Bush Brigade to march with
once again.
They lead the simple Arab life, beyond the Street
Folk’s ken,
And, like the casual Arab Chief, they love their
fellow men—
They love their fellow men,
They love their fellow men,
The Sheds are calling me to them who love their
fellow men.
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.
Peter’s Pears.
[FORT HEE BULLETIN.]
DELLAHUNTY was in Peter Kelly’s
bi? pear tree in Peter Kelly’s
orchard at Ilaylane, and Peter
Kelly’s immense, great devil of a dog Par-
nell was sitting up most regardful on the
butt of his tail, cocking an inquisitive eye at
Tim Dellahunty. By the dog was a small
bit of a flour bag half filled with William
pears that great and yellow Eve would fall
for them again, I’m thinking.
Came Peter Kelly himself, strolling leis-
urely, taking the sun, and approving of
nature in a general way, a trifle of envy to
his lip, a tender regard to his eye, and a
gleaming new rifle to his arm. He stood
under the tree and he cocked a look at Tim
Dellahunty astride a high limb precarious,
and in sore distress of mind, and said he
most friendly: “Is it yersilf, Dellahunty?
’N’ how are yeh, man?”
Dellahunty, looking at him from the tail of
his eye, gave him his answer with due polite-
ness. “I’m well, Kelly. I am that, ’n’
you’re doin’ well ’n’ liear-rty yoursilf?”
“I was never better, Tim, thankin’ yeh
kindly."’
“’N’ the missus,” said Dellahunty—“she’s
fine, is she?”
“Herself’s enjyin’ the bist iv good health,
her digistion bein’ mended completely, yill be
glad to hear.”
“Glad I am, Peter Kelly. Hersilf’s the
dacent tall woman would begrudge a poor
man nothin’ in the way iv a thrifle iv fruit
maybe.”
Kelly put up his gun, uncovered, and slid
his eye along the barrel at a distant crow.
"Yer comfortable in yer mind, Dellahunty?”
said he. “Divil doubt it wid your bay pony
The Dawn winnin’ the race Saturday, ’n’
yer boy Tirrince doin’ yeh a power iv credit
be the school.”
‘‘Moderate comfortable, Peter Kelly,”
answered Tim, “moderate aisy ’n’ contint,
but not more than would be- judicious in a
man with the sick wife pinin’ fer the taste
’n‘ refrishmint iv a new pear or two or
three.”
“ Twas Hannah Dellahunty I seen this
min-ute carryin’ a hundred ’n’ twinty pound
iv a black pig past the dam t’ Scobie’s.”
“I in not denyin’ it, Peter, man. Ilersilf’s
quick in her changes, bein’ well ’n’ ill be
turns expeditious ’n’ variable.”
“Do yeh mind a finer sweet April mornin’,
Dellahunty?”
“Never a finer since February lahst.”
“I’ll be takin’ me walk, then. Good luck
to yeh.” Kelly moved off a pace or two,
and Dellahunty called after him with neigh-
borly concern. “Yill not be forgettin’ yer
shmall dog, Peter. Great riglar exercise is
necessary t’ thim mastiff hounds, ’n’ never
a shtep this way or that have he took it’s
two hours.”
“Lave him be, lave him be. I’m noticin’
he's greatly given t’ meditation. I’ll not
inthrupt him at ail. Be sure somethin’ ’ll
come iv it, wid the intilligence he have. Good
day to yeh, Tim Dellahunty.”
“’N’ a fine mornin’ t’ you, Peter Kelly, ’n’
God’s blessin’ on yer long walk.”
Kelly went his way, and Tim looked down
at Kelly’s tremendous dog, and heaved a
sigh, and Kelly’s dog looked up at Tim, and
said nothing at all, but in the two eyes of
him Dellahunty detected a lively expecta-
tion.
Three hours later Kelly returned, and fed
his dog. “Yer lucky, Tim Dellahunty,” said
he, “t’ be the man iv leisure a fine day the
like of this.”
“Don't nriution it,” said Dellahunty.
Kelly was moving off again, but paused.
“’Twill intrist yeh for sure,” said he, “t’
hear hersilf’s bin searchin’ the place over
afther yeh. She’s tuck it to liear-r-t most
feelin’ the way yiv diserted ’n’ left her a
lone woman. ’Tis in the crick you are,’ sez
she, V ’tis this min-ute she’s callin’ the
Ballarat po-lice t’ dthrag the dams ’n’ holes
about fer yer dead corpse. Good afternoon,
Dellahunty.”
“And to you. Peter Kelly. Peter Kelly!
Peter Kelly ! I’m wonderin’ would yeh sell
me a triflin’ few pears this day.”
Kelly paused. “I’ll give the suggestion
jew consideration,” said lie.
“What would yeh be askin’ now for a poor
han’ful the like iv the bag below?”
Kelly seemed to calculate. “I’d maybe
ask five pounds,” said he.
Dellahunty groaned. “I wish yeh good
day, Misther Kelly,” he said.
“Obliged I am fer yer politeness ’n’ gen-
tlemanly manners, Misther Dellahunty, ’n’
good day to you.”
“Peter Kelly! Peter Kelly ! Did yeh say
that fool woman Hannah Dellahunty was
axin’ in the po-lice, bad cess to her?”
“I did that.”
“Five pounds is a power iv money, Peter
Kelly—a mighty power iv money the har-r-d
times we’re havin’ wid the fearful accumu-
lation iv rabbits ’n’ thistles, ’n’ me red cow
dead on me.”
“You’re right, man. you are. ’Tis a power
iv good money. Well, I’ll be lavin’ yeh to
yer absthractions, fer a great thinkin’ man
ye are, Tim Dellahunty.”
“Peter Kelly, I do believe you’re the man
would do me a favor this day.”
“’Tis a matter fer consideration, Tim Del-
lahunty.”
“No great matter is if. but t’ see me wife
Hannah, ’n’ axe her take five pound from
the caddy be the clock, ’n’ fitch it t’ me here,
assumin’. Misther Kelly, you’ll not be dis-
posed to have yer dbg walk wid yeh.”
“I lave the dog, I think, Dellahunty. He’s
well enough where he is. ’n’ not naded at
the house beyant or elsewhere the time
bein’.”
Kelly went away, and returned in the
course of twenty minutes with Mrs. Della-
hunty.
“Foive pounds it is, is it?” asked Mrs. D.
incredulously. “Himself sez it.”
“Five nonnds it is. ma’am. Would yeh
hand it F Misther Peter Kelly fer the bit iv
fruit I’m buyin’.”
Mr*. Dellahunty gave Kelly the money,
and Kelly took hold of his dog. and pulled
him away. Dellahunty came down gingerlv,
took un the bag of pears, and moved to the
orchard fence. Safe on the other side, “I’ll
be wisliin’ yeh a fine evenin’, Peter Kelly,”
lie said.
“Same to you, Tim Dellahunty, ’n’ to you,
ma’am. I’ll see you at early mass the morn
ma.vhe.”
“You will maybe Peter Kelly, God bless
you!” And Tim Dellahuntv went home-
wards slowlv and thoughtfully, bearing his
£5 bag of William pears in his right hand.
EDDYSON.


THE “RITZ,” CREMORNE, IN WHICH HANKS’ HOT-WATER SYSTEM IS INSTALLED.
THE HOME
COMFORTABLE
h ear much these
days of the Home
Beautiful, but unless the
H ome Beautiful be also
Comfortable it’s not the
Home most of us desire.
Great and rapid have been the strides in home construction for Economy and Exterior Beauty, also in Interior Fittings and Decoration, for
Comfort, Labor-saving and Pleasing Effects. The treatment of Interior Fittings in Modern Style is most important, and in this connection it is
well to know
“DANKS” is the Home of Modern Interior Fittings
The beautiful white palatial apartment house, known as the “Ritz,” which graces Cremorne Point, is one of the most up-to-dately fitted houses
in Sydney, and contains some of “Danks’ ” practical modern ideas. For instance, the "Banks” Hot Water System is installed throughout, and
has given the utmost satisfaction. "Danks’ ” systems of heating rooms, landings, halls, etc., by the hot-water Radiator System have been
installed at the Military College, Duntroon, Coogee Bay Hotel, Immigrants’ Home, Sydney Hospital, Tumut and Goulburn Hospitals, Orange
Lands Office, and Wentworth Hotel, Sydney, and many other buildings. This system is equally adaptable to small or large houses, old or new.
DECORATED RADIATOR.
PASSING OF THE TRADITIONAL HOB.
The supplanting of the ordinary fireplace with
our liot-water Radiators, which give out an even
heat, easily regulated to any requirement, at a
fraction of the fuel cost of the open fire, is a dis-
tinct advance in the Home Comfortable, which
means health and happiness. The Radiators can
he placed in all cold parts of the house, such as
stair landings, halls, bedrooms, drawing-rooms, etc.
The supply of Hot Water for the Radiators is kept
up at an infinitesimal cost by specially-constructed
boilers, which are heated with coke, and need no
special attention. The Radiators themselves are
handsome in design, which amply compensates for
the customary glow of the coal or wood fire. Any
house, old or new, can be fitted at moderate cost.
We also supply all the most up-to-date artistic
ideas in Mantelpieces, Fireplaces, Gas Fires, Gas
Stoves, Bath Heaters, Gas and Electric Fittings,
and Sanitary Fittings. We have very pleasing
antique styles in Metal Work Canopies and Grates,
and unique colorings in tile surrounds.
Our Gas Fittings, Hall Lights and Electroliers
provide most artistic and efficient ideas for embel-
lishing the Modern Home or Flats, and giving the
most light for the least gas consumption.
We welcome inspection at our warehouse, and
will be pleased to forward Art Catalogues to all
interested. Our representative will call wherever
desired in Sydney and Suburbs. Our advice is,
select your own fittings, or instruct your Architect
to make the selection from “Hanks’ ” Modern De-
signs, as he will here find the conceptions that
harmonise with the advanced architecture of the
Home Beautiful and Comfortable.
THE HOME OF
MODERN
INTERIOR
FITTINGS.
DANKS
Otherwise John Danks Son
Proprietary Limited
HEATING and
SANITARY
ENGINEERS and
SPECIALISTS.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Near Liverpool Street.
Melbourne Address : 391 BourKe Street
m
&
HOT-WATER BOILER,


Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation,
hand suited exactly.
“Swan safety
Every
The <
9
Blot,
Mias,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE 1
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
A
A
Most
Famous Sliding
Cord
*Ol l
<©
Brace
the
World
Everywhere
in
Sold
m
21
Guarantee
Free
Play
Get (he Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast be Stamped
on Buckle.
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINER electric EQUIPMENT
S 3
o
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoraiist, it will be found the
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few: —
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
(5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(S) Any hand piace may be
used.
(7) Silent running and pracii>
cally no vibration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary—the Falklner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest.
cheapest and cleanest
power!
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequalled in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALRINER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
đf
d
ď
TRAD El
MARKS
B.S.A
THE WORLD’S BEST
If there is one rifle that has stood out above all others m miniature match shooting during recent
years MARTINI RIFLE
Specially made with heavy barrels and fitted with B.S.A. aperture sights (or the most
advanced form of rifle shooting. One of these rifles used by the Remington Arms Co., for
testing purposes has fired over one hundred thousand rounds and it is still capable of making
a perfect group at 100 yards.
B.S.A. Martini Rifles hold most ot the Australian and World’s Records, including A J Dalton’s
recent match record of 67 consecutive bull s eyes. They are made in 11 models .22 310 and 31 i;l,„
and are fully described in the B.S.A. Martini Rifle Booklet. Post Free from ’ J 32 bf '
P. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), Australian Bldgs., Melb.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s,
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Tiaki”: This side of the globe is about to have
an experience of “Amurica at Work.” The America
Ueep bea Exploration Co. has been organised under
the laws of Arizona for the purpose of recoverin o ' 1
valuable cargoes and the vessels which contain them.
According to their prospectus they are goin°- to
dredge out a few billions from the deep, which “is
literally teeming with sunken vessels of immense
value waiting to be recovered. One of these is the
General Grant, a clipper ship of 1095 tons, that was
sunk on the coast of the Auckland Islands, close
into shore, with a very rich cargo of gold bullion
and other valuables, which, according to the verified
manifest, exceed five million dollars in worth.” The
company has an exclusive right, granted by the
Maoriland Government, to lease a part of the
i es ’ , s ] ° as t° get right down to business.
Ibis lease enables the company to erect the neces-
sary salvaging and diving apparatus over the exact
spot where the General Grant lies, and recover the
immense fortune quickly.” Other Australasian
wrecks, with immense quantities of boodle on board,
are also to be recovered and the profits divided.
The co. does not reckon to make all its billions from
the wrecks alone. Offers from moving-picture
people for the cinema rights will • (according to the
co.) provide a great deal more than the capital re-
quired for the actual salvaging expenses. This shows
the superiority of Amurican brains over the Maori-
land product. Here we have a Government, loaded
up to the taffrail with debt, selling the rights of a
$0,000,000 wreck for a few bob. As one groaning
taxpayer to another, I ask you what sort of busi-
ness is that?
* ' * * *
“Hamer”: A well-known Sydney rag firm has at
last been driven to prosecute two women of some
affluence for shoplifting. One of them, who had
between three and four pounds in her purse at the
time of the theft, promptly paid a fine of a fiver
for the pleasure of stealing goods valued at 6s. 6d., and
the enjoyment of the other woman was over some-
thing almost as trifling. Female shoplifters are
divided into three classes—(l) the woman who steals
casually because she is poor and badly wants what
she grabs; (2) the woman who steals because shop-
lifting is her business; and (3) the woman who has
no necessity to steal, but grabs something because she
sees an opportunity to get away with the best of
bargains—the bargain that costs nothing at all. In
the eye of the fluff merchant the last, besides being
the most numerous, is the worst nuisance of alh
Very often she is a good customer, and the fluff
merchant would rather let her have the pleasure of
stealing a few trifles than lose her trade by making
a fuss about it. Many years ago the subject of klep-
tomania was much discussed in England, where
wealthy women prosecuted for stealing pleaded the
mental infirmity and were discharged with the
Court’s sympathy, while poor women up for com-
mon or garden stealing went to gaol. The Law
in Australia is not so one-sided; but it rarely has the
opportunity of dealing with the woman" who is
well enough off to plead kleptomania. In fact, it
is a pretty strong indication that the nuisance has
been growing beyond the limit when prosecutions of
wealthy or moderately wealthy women take place at
all.
* * * *
Minister for Agriculture Pascoe, of S. Aus., has
been going to headquarters—the Dept, of Agricul-
ture in the U.S.A.—for the real strength of the
paper and magazine talk about a miraculous kind
of seed-wheat. It is alleged to have been searched
for and found in a “semi-arid” district of Russia,
and tried in Dakota, where £2OOO worth of seed
produced £60,000,000 worth of crop in nine years.
It “actually thrives under drought conditions, re-
quiring fierce, hot sunshine to mature it”—and so
on. The official in, the U.S.A. informs his colleague
in Adelaide, with a kind of weary politeness, that
“the paragraphs exaggerate, not only the quantity
of seed secured, but the conditions then and now
obtaining in Dakota....lt may be of some interest
to you to know that we are constantly afflicted
with newspaper reports of a similar character, and
besieged with requests for samples of seed of crops
which have had marvellous powers ascribed to them.
From a man who ought to know: When Fisher
returns to his own, he would, as The Bulletin
suggests, do well" to look into the matter of the
languishing note issue. Also, to put more life
into the Commonwealth Bank, better inducements
should be held out to agents to procure business.
Apart from the State Savings Bank paying h per
cent, more interest (I’m speaking of N.S.wT), it
also pays its unattached agents commission on all
new business. In a small to medium-sized country
town it is surprising the amount of business that
may thus be introduced. Also much depends on the
head serang at the local post office. I know several
places where depositors have been directed from
the post-office steps to the State agency, after the
advantages of banking with the latter have been
more or less discreetly pointed out to them. I
don’t mind one Tory crank doing these things, but
when I find quite a number adopting the same
tactics, then I strongly suspect there’s one of those
“honorable understandings’’ handy. I would hate
to think that the'two whack the commission which
the State Bank offers and the other doesn’t; but
that would be the most natural explanation of why
the business is shooed to the State concern. Cer-
tainly someone should examine this matter criticallv.
* * * •
“Co-op.”: “Jobber” (B. 2/7/’l4) hits the nail
fair when he says cabbage cockies must cut out
that amiable parasite, the middleman. Not only
cabbage cockies, but every other kind of cocky,
more especially those concerned in growing perish-
able stuff. One instance. Cherries were fetching
in Adelaide markets 4s. per case, best packing
quality. A man in Broken Hill inquired the price
from a retailer there. He was told 22 s. Result,
no business. Now, freight to Broken Hill from
Adelaide is Is. Bd. per single case. Cost of case is
Bd. This leaves a fairly substantial profit of 15s.
4d. to be whacked up somewhere between the pro-
ducer and consumer. And the remedy? Co-opera-
tion ! And until the blind-eyed idiots who are in
the cocky game realise the fact, they are going
to be fleeced right and left by these shrewd busi-
ness pests.
* * * *
“10-2-4”: someone posted the following to me at
my house yesterday
“Dear Sir. —We have a client who is anxious to
purchase a genuine business, similar to that carried
on by you, and one of our representatives, whilst out
in your district yesterday, casually heard you might
entertain a buyer. If you would please send us full
particulars of same and your lowest price, we can
then add our commission thereto, and endeavor to
effect an immediate sale. We lend our own money
to buyers at a low rate of interest to effect a sale.
—Yours truly, Solomon Issiks & Co.”
As a matter of fact, I have no business of any sort,
never have had, and in all human likelihood never
shall have. In my street there are some barristers,
a doctor, many elderly ladies who do nothing, a
girls’ school, a few aged gentlemen who do nothing,
an M.L.A., an ex-actress, and an immense herd or
covey of clerks. I don’t think there is a solitary
proprietor of a business among the lot. What an
insane game business is when it takes the form of
sowing mendacious appeals such as the above, at a
penny a time, on ground which is foredoomed to be
utterly barren and profitless! It bears out what I
have always contended, viz., that the hard, common-
sense, practical man of affairs is largely an impostor.
* * * *
“A.C.K.”: I welcomed the Savings Bank depart-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank, as I and a lot of
others, who roam about Australia, saw we would
have a chance of depositing in any State at any post
office. With this in view I opened a small account
at the Melbourne office, and was informed that I
could bank in all the States. Nothing was said
about the charge. Well, getting up to Albury, I had
a couple of pounds that were not working, so thought
I would put them away. On going to the post office
I was informed that I would have to pay Is. to
have this remitted to Melbourne. I, of course, kicked
at the charge, and a book was brought forth setting
out the law on the subject—“ Any amount for £5
or under remitted from one State to another will
be charged Is.” I “did in” my little lot, as many
another shearer has done, rather than stand the im-
position. I have since found out that private banks
charge 6d. for remitting £25 or under. But Is. for
£5 or under —well, it’s a fair hold-up.
* * * *
“Second Class”: Passengers on inter-State boats
are becoming dead-tired of the perpetual tipping of
stewards and others which is almost essential if
decent service is to be secured, and on at least two
recent occasions the second-saloon travellers rebelled
and refused to part with their hard-won money in
payment for something for which they had already
paid the shipping cos. Such a degrading system
should never have been allowed to secure a footing
in an allegedly democratic country like Australia.
The unfortunate thing is that it has been officially
recognised by Justice Higgins, who, in making his
award for stewards and pantrymen, fixed the wages
at 7s. a day, but allowed the cos. to deduct £2 ss.
a month for board, and £2 a month for tips!
Thus the deluded passengers, instead of rewarding
the stewards for some extra service, are really tip-
ping people like the Howard Smiths and other ship-
ping magnates. In future, if I have to tip these
gentlemen, I shall do it in person, and not by
deputy. The men themselves are opposed to the
system. “We don’t want the damned tips,” one of
them told me on a recent trip. “We’ve got to be
servile to all kinds of people, so as to earn enough
to keep body and soul together. What we do want
is to be paid for the work we do.” The barman on
another boat made the same remark, with a sul-
phurous addendum which lighted up the sea for
miles. Some years ago the pay for stewards in
English boats was £3 a month for whites and 30s.
for niggers. Then flocks came across from the Con-
tinent and signed on for 2s. 6d. a month, in the
hope of making wages out of the tips. We don’t want
such a state of affairs to grow up here, and we are
drifting towards it. The Stewards and Pantrymen’s
Union has been trying to get a conference with the
steamship owners, so as to have the award varied, but
has been referred to the Arbitration Court. As the
agreement does not terminate for about two years,
the men will either have to wait that long before
securing improved conditions, or create a dispute in
two States. This is one method by which sweating
employers force men to break industrial laws. If
every passenger refused to tip, the men would be in
for a rough time for a while, but there would be
then no excuse for perpetuating the iniquitous system
when the next award is made.
* * * #
“Z.Z.”: There was the usual “art union” at a
large charity bazaar in a southern city the other
day. At the draw, in the presence of the commit-
tee and the promoter (all women), the winning num-
ber proved to belong to a ticket held by a person
who was thought of no account; so the ticket was;
put back and a second draw made. This gave the ;
number held by a man unknown, so his ticket shared
the fate of its predecessor. At the third attempt
a prominent assistant at the bazaar owned the lucky
number, and, there being no objection to this
worthy person, stm was duly presented with the pi°
ture. It might in justice be added that she is still
unaware that her number was not altogether the
choice of the gods. Why don’t they run Tatt.’s on
this principle—wicked Tatt.’s, with which of course
these good people wouldn’t think of having any
truck ?
The S. M. Herald, concerning the Ger-
man Government’s recently-increased sub-
sidy to the North German Lloyd and German-
Australian lines of steamers :
It is estimated that 100,000 tons of German goods,
which at present find their way to Maoriland through
England, after transhipment, will henceforth be car-
ried direct on German bottoms, and in such circum-
stances Germany requires neither justification nor
excuse for deciding that her corny antes shall profit,
by this traffic, rather than those of other nations, or,
rather, those of one other nation. Hitherto the
European trade of Maoriland, inward and outward,
has been carried almost exclusively by British ships.
Having thus cordially approved of Protec-
tion for Germany, couldn’t the Herald raise
a little enthusiasm for the same tonic for
Australia ?
THE WILL.
[FOR TEH BULLETIN.]
When Enoch Sanders died, and left
His earthly assets (not prodigious),
His family, although bereft,
Grew quite litigious.
His widow—she a second wife —
Claimed all estate (I think she should have),
He gave her little in his life,
And always would have.
His sons, by his first-wedded mate,
Considered they should share the leavings,
And get two-thirds, at any rate,
To ease their grievings.
His daughters—step and otherwise—
Were sore because they’d been omitted,
Averring, after his demise,
He’d been half-witted.
The trouble was he’d left a will
Completed as to form and witness,
Which certified, with legal skill,
His mental fitness.
And this a sole bequest declared,
Provided for his shiftless brother;
The residue, should she be spared,
Went to his mother.
The latter, who was ninety-nine,
And shrivelled up beyond all mention,
Was independent—drew, in fine,
An old-age pension.
Her law advisers, Crimp and Glide,
Took up her case and said they’d win it;
Moss-Jones was on the other side;
Both firms were in it I
The court proceedings lasted long,
For Mr. Justice Mould presided ;
Each lawyer proved the other wrong
In form decided.
They quoted Act and precedent;
They bandied points in legal diction;
Hammer-and-tongs, away they went
Without restriction.
One showed the will should be upset
As contrary to legislation;
His clients rightly asked to get
Administration.
The other proved the case in fact
Was clearly as testator meant it,
And held no parliamentary Act
Could circumvent it.
For weeks, with fine forensic art,
They drove each witness to distraction ;
And then agreed that each must start
A further action.
His Honor snapped: “Sub judice.
I must reserve my own decision.
On this estate the costs must be
Before division.”
I never heard the final splash;
If published, then 1 didn't spot it;
But this I know of Enoch’s cash —
Those lawyers got it.
VICTORIA.
G. G. A. COLLES.


ƒdf
m
l
. ///;
-
n
|«CNJtOCW«i
re::
W.G .HlM***
§
■r
k
$
Keep Hear tie's
in tHe House
COUGHS & COLDS
“We have used Hearne’s Bron-
chitis Cure many times, and found
it to be a quicK and sure remedy for
Coughs and Colds. We recommend it
to all our friends, and we would never
be without a bottle in the house.”
L. WILLIAMS,
Darlinghurst. N.S.W.
“We cannot speaK too highly
of Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure. We are never without
a bottle in the house, because
we have found it the surest
and quicKest remedy for
Coughs and Colds. We al-
ways recommend it to all our
friends.”
D. COOPER,
Summer Hill, Sydney.
“We always use your Bron-
chitis Cure in our home, and
have never had anything to equal
it for Coughs and Colds in both
children and adults. Relief is im-
mediate after taKing first dose.”
E. ADAMS,
Mullaley, via Gunnedah, N.S.W.
Price. 2/6 & 4/6
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK'S
MALTED MILK
1
j^AITEDMIiK
S^AMOTrA^
SsaH
ss
I m
d
\
Price 12/- and upwards ofall Station-
ers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet
about the Onoto Pen free on appli-
cation to Thos. de la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., 322Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York
Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens,
Get the N
Pen that never leaks the pen
which becomes a sealed tube the
instant you turn its “head”—
the “Onoto.” The Onoto is
designed to last a lifetime and is
\ guaranteed by its makers.
Onoto
Pen
The Self filliot
Safely Fountain Pea.
There is no need for Australians to
USE
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUDENTA
invite Tiie Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
ipi?
BUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles, Price 6d.


Jam Spoon and Butter Knife,
richly hand-engraved, in Silk-lined
Case, 10/6.
Butter Dish and Knife,
“Shell” Shape, finest Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 quality, Satin Glass,
16/6.
Salad Bowl and Servers,
Silver-plated Cut Crystal
12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-
pure
Glass,
Fern Pot, pure Sil-
ver-plated, A 1 Qual-
ity, richly em-
bossed, 3Jin. high,
12/6.
6Jin. high, 30/-.
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, richly hand-
engraved, “Empire” Design,* 4 gill,
30/-; 5 gill, 35/-
Honey Jar, pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame, “Thistle”
Design, 8/6.
KMoil
Spirit Frame Of Solid Oak, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Cut-glass Bottles, 35/-
Frorrv.
SycJnexs Feadinj? Jeweller
you can always rely on getting the very newest, most varied
and modern ideas in Silverware from the House of A. Saunders.
Beautiful selections-ideal for Wedding or Birthday Gifts;
quite moderately priced, too. Try us with a trial order and see.
WE PAY POSTAGE
TO ANY ADDRESS.
3
at
Hot Water Jug, pure
Silver-plated, richly Hand-
engraved “Fern” Design,
25/-.
Hot Water Kettle and Stand,
pure Silver-plated, richly engraved
Butterfly Design, £2/10/-.
CATALOG FREE—
ALSO NEW SUPPLEMENT.
Sugar Scuttle
Scoop, pure
plated handsomely
engraved, 30 /-.
anti
Silver-
Hand-
Dinner Cruet, pure Silver-
plated Frame, richly bur-
nished, Crystal Glass
Bottles, 12/6, 15/-,
17/6, 20/-
Bread Board, pure Silver-plated
Nickel -Silver Floral Design, com-
plete with Knife, £2.
807-817 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
£
<
$
V
Did you miss
SlfP we showed in the previous
lllV AliIUvS issues of this paper? If
If so, you will find them
all in our Free Catalog. The Five Models shown below .give a further
selection, each having their own particular claims to a Sportsman’s
attention.
»nl
"Savage” Single Shot
Sille No. 3005-Model 1904.
18 in. round barrel, bolt action, Walnut stocl
rear sight and special fore sight. Shoots .22 si
long, and long-rifle cartridges ... r
V
& 20/-
dff
Remington UMC
Cadet Rifle— No. 3014 -The features
that specially commend this are simplicity and
durability of action, superior quality, workmanship, material and
perfect accuracy. Adjustable sights to 200 yards, Walnut stock, lifle butt plate. AIZ i
28 in. barrel. Shoots .22 short, long and long rifle cartridges. ... Price “*-v “
-—l- 1
ssa
Winchester 1905 Model Self-Loading
Rifle— No 3040—A self-loading, hammerless
take-down rifle, using smokeless cartridges The
recoil of the exploded cartridge ejects the empty shell,
re-cocks rifle, and brings a fre h cartridge into position. Magazine carries
5 cartridges. 22 in. round barrel, spotting rear, and G. S. front sight.
Length 40 in., weight about 7 'A lbs. Calibres .32 and .35 ... ... ... Price
MI
The New .22 "Savage High
Power" Rifle No. 3026—A proved wonderfully
effective arm for even the largest game. It is the lightest
high-power rifle made. A hammerless, 6-shot repeater, weighing only
2O in barrel, made from the famous Savage “ Hi-Pressure” A/
steel. It uses the .22 "Savage High Power” cartridges. Price * / -*-"/■
dfdƒ
F.N. Browning Automatic High Power
.. ... Rifle— No. 3045—The "Browning” automatic
rifle is, like the Browning Pistol, far ahead of any other type,
fhe solid breech and locking are perfect, and the shots succeed
each other rapidly by a simple pressure of the finger on the trigger, and the precision of
each shot is assured, as the rifle remains at the shoulder all the time. It shoots .35 cal.
high power cartridges, with nickel jacketed soft nosed bullets; universally acknowledged
by the best spoilsmen. as most suitable for all purposes. Bead foresight and hinged turn-
over open and fine V rear sight. This can easily be turned while the rifle is at ihe
shoulder. Length, 41 ins.; weight, lbs.; capacity, 5 cartridges; penetration _£Q IA/
at 75 ft., VA in. of wood p r i cs <350 ±U/“
Gunmakers and Cartridge Manufacturers
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
The “A.P.” Rifle Catalog contains 100
types of Sporting Rifles, suitable for all
kinds of game. Each of these can be had
with 12 different combinations of sights, so
the shooter has practically 1,000 Rifles to
choose from,prices: 10/-to£2o. Amongst
them are: 6 Rifles bv F.N. (Browning
Pistol Co); 3by Savage Arms Co.; 7by
Stevens Arms Co : 49 by The Winchester
Co ; 5 by Remington U M.C ; 20 by
Marlin Arms Co.: 8 by the B.S A. Co.
Calibres .22 to ,45/90. Ask for one -Free
df d
31ttS MO MOM
A|i)f jo i
spjoiiy ooS;p3 m^h
The outstanding feature of the new list of Records for July is
the great variety. There are two Grand Opera, two Concert
and 34 Regular Records. These include “Happy Days,” sung
by Elizabeth Spencer; “Sweetest Story Ever Told” (Instru-
mental) ; “Ragtime in the Air,” Baritone and Tenor Duet, by Archibald and
r ish ; ‘On the Banks of Allan Water,” Duet by Macklin and Brazell; “Just like
being at Hanie,” by Harry Lauder, etc.
Go and hear them at the nearest Edison dealer.
BLUE AMBEROL
Grand Opera Records.
28120 Ich Schnitt’es gern in Alle Rinden ein
( Shubert ). Tenor Solo in German,
orch. ace. Heinrich Knote.
28136 Ah! leve toi soleil (Arise, radiant Sun)
Romeo et Juliette (Gounod). Tenor Solo
in French, orch. ace.
Gaston Du Bois
BLUE AMBEROL
Concert Records.
28182 Spirto Gentil (Angel of Light)—La
Favorita ( Donizetti ). Tenor Solo in
English, orch. ace. Orville Harrold
28183 Voi lo Sapete (Mother, you know the
Story)—Cavalleria Rusticana ( Mas-
cagni ). Soprano Solo in English, orch.
ace. Marguerita Sylva
BLUE AMBEROL REGULAR RECORDS.
1739 All Night Long. Novelty Song, orch.
acc. Anna Chandler
1779 Happy Days. Soprano, piano acc. with
violin and cello obligato.
Elizabeth Spencer
1858 Silver Star. Indian Love Song, orch.
acc. Jones and Murray
1930 Lead Us, Heavenly Father, Lead Us.
Sacred, orch. acc. ;
Edison Mixed Quartet
1940 Sweetest Story Ever Told. Violin, Flute
and Harp. Venetian Instrumental Trio
1955 So So Polka. Zylophone, orch. acc.
Daab and Dorn
1993 Long Long ago-—With Variations. Flute,
orch. acc. ...Julius Spindler
2003 I Hope I Don’t Intrude. Bells, orch. acc.
Charles Daab
2008 Madame Butterfly—Fantasie. Violoncello
orch. acc. Victor Sorlin
2010 Souvenir. Mandolin, Piano acc.
D. C. Dounis
2030 There’s a Mother Always Waiting You,
at Ifome, Sweet Home. Counter Tenor,
orch. acc. Will Oakland and Chorus
2034 Gold and Silver Waltz —Waltz Boston.
For Dancing.
National Promenade Band
,-2044 S. R. Henry’s Barn Dance. For Dancing.
X: N.Y. Military Band
2043 Shipmates. Vaudeville Sketch.
Golden and Hughes
2047 Every Little Movement —Madame Sherry.
American Standard Orchestra
2051 Favorite Airs from The-'Arcadians, orch.
acg. Edison Light Opera Co.
: 2053 I Long to see the Girl I Left Behind.
Tenor, orch. acc. Manuel Romain
2055 Astliore. Baritone, orch. ace.
lieinald Werrenrath
2056 Garry Owen Medley (Original). Violin,
orch. acc. Eugene A. Jaudas
2059 Mrs. Olancv's Boarding House. Vaude-
ville Sketch. Empire Vaudeville Co.
2063 Virginia Reel. For Dancing.
National Promenade Band
2065 Thv Sentinel Am I. Bass, orch. acc.
T. Foster Why
2066 Come On Over Here —The Doll Girl.
Soprano and Tenor, orch. acc.
Eliz. Spencer and Murray
2068 When Dreams Come True. Baritone,
orch. acc. Thomas Chalmers
2071 Ragtime in the Air —America. Comic
Song, orch. acc.
Billy Murray and Chorus
2073 In the Shadow of the Pines. Baritone
and Tenor, orch. acc.
Archibald and Fish
22538 One, Two, Three, Four.
Toots Paka’s Hawaiians
23039 Tell Her I Love Her So. Tenor, orch.
acc. Compton
23153 Jean Loves All the Jockeys. Comic
Song, orch. acc. Williams
23156 On the Banks of Allan Water. Tenor
and Baritone, orch. acc.
Macklin and Brazell
23158 The Matrimonial Handicap. Comic
Song, orch. acc. Charman
23159 Roses. Tenor, orch. acc.
’Williamson
23160 The Ould Plaid Shawl. Baritone, orch.
acc. T. F. Ivinniburgh
23163 Just Like Being At Hame. Comic Song,
orch. acc. Harry Lauder
These goods carry the usual Edison endorsement —that is, we guarantee them to
be perfect in manufacture, and not to have any mechanical defects. The above
means that if any of our products should be found not perfect they should be
returned either to your dealer or direct to us.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364=372 Kent St., Sydney.


“TOUCH WUD,”
The Magic Mascot
That Brings Good Fortune.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA SETS THE
FASHION.
It has been noted that recent arrivals from
England are all wearing some form or other
of the real Eastern Mascot, “Touchwud,”
which is all the rage in fashionable circles
in the Homeland.
The fashion for “Touchwud” has been set
by Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen
Alexandra, who is so delighted with this
dainty, luck-bringing charm that she has
ordered quite a number of them.
d fdfd
You can wear this mas-
cot on your bangle, brace-
let, brooch, hatpin, watch-
guard, or on a chain round
your neck.
And wherever you wear
it—so runs the old saying
•—it brings you good luck
and averts the evil eye.
Everyone has heard that
if they have a stroke of
gocd forvune, and speak about it —their luck
will fly unless they touch wood.
But ordinary ivood will not do. The wood
you must touch is the wood of a certain
sacred tree of the East. It is this wood
which forms the head and heart of this mys-
terious talisman.
You have a great opportunity to-day of
obtaining this mysterious, luck-bringer either
for yourself, or as a present for a friend to
whom you wish to bring Good Luck.
Each “Touchwud” has a head, and heart
made from this sacred Eastern tree, with
arms and legs of silver or gold. The gold
ones are the most fashionable. You can
obtain these mascots from all the leading
stores and jewellers, both in gold and silver,
set with eyes of the “Lucky” birthday stones
of the wearer. Your Jeweller or Store will
supply you with a “Touchwud” in gold, with
eyes of the right precious stones for your
birthday month. When ordering, give your
dealer the date of your birthday.
READ WHAT THE PRESS SAYS.
MASCOT AND ITS EYES.
“Many persons wear ‘lucky’ stones, and
many wear the wrong one, because they
choose it according to the calendar month,
and not the Zodiacal month. ‘Touchwud,’
the mysterious and popular Eastern mascot,
can be purchased with eyes of twelve different
gems— one for each Zodiacal month.” — The
Globe, Jan. 31, 1914.
THE NEWEST MASCOT.
“The latest Eastern mascot to reach this
country is the quaint little man ‘Touchwud,’
who is said to be the bringer of good fortune.
The Eastern people call it the Holy Charm,
because its little head is made of sacred oak,
the arms and legs either in gold or silver.
In America they are in great demand, especi-
ally the gold ones, and are worn by thousands
of men and women on bangles, watch-chains,
etc.” —Graphic.
** TOUCHWUD,”
THE LUCKY MASCOT.
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 17-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER 17-
JUNIOR ...... 1/6 CADET -/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
mm
m
Silver-Toned
MELBA
Accordeons
A"re unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, Qlitaijied by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
THE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price, 6d. monthly.
&
/
f
w:;
■
J
6 bn
WORLD OVER
KNOWN THE
\I7HO are the Gillette users ? Men
* * of independent means—men
who welcome the Gillette because
of the money it saves them—nearly
all the young men —and the old ones
who know that the clean Gillette
shave every morning keeps the face
youthful and fresh.
To you and every other 'mail the Gillette means a cool, velvet-
smooth shave every day , in three minutes or less. It is the only razor
you can adjust to suit yourself.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. . Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet.. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
NO STROPPING NO HONING
f ď
The EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation. ,
SIZES:
Ihp
2 hp
354 hp
r
Nine Governments use the'
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
■—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Motors can be fitted with the Famous Maxim
Silencer.
Write for Booklet illustrating
and explaining the many uses of this wonderful _ little motor, to the
Controlling: Representative for Australasia and .New
land, H. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 88 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; Dept. D-12, 194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane. Bocal Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D - 12 ’
AV.A.; C. J. Ellershaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A.
Agents required in unallotted territory. Apply h. A.
GODDARD, Brisbane.
p~~~T
IKTERM4VJ
IDEAL
*fw yoß*
Waterman’^
(Ideal)
Fountain Pen
i . -
A great Help, a great
Convenience and a great
Economy. Lasts a life-
time; iridium-tipped gold
nibs to suit all hands;
every Pen Guaranteed.
Four types—Regular, Safety, Self-Filling and Pump-Filling,
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., London, England.
(Australia: 350. George Street, Sydney.)
Write for booklet.
#KTERM4Vj
, IDEAL
ww yoß*
ACCORDEONS
The DUDLEY
No other accordeon can compare with the
“Dudley” for excellence of finish and full,
sonorous tone. Every instrument thoroughly
tested.
m
m lil m m mm ML
DUDLEY ACCORDEON MODEL “A”
Ebonised Mouldings; Nickel Corner Protec-
tors ; 10-Button Keys of Mother of Pearl; 2
rows of Steel Reeds; 10-fold Double Bellows;
2 Basses; 2 Stops; Leather Handles.
POST FREE 85/-
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” instru-
ments or write direct to—
A.P.SYKES,
WHITTLE COLLINS S'! MELBOURNE.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
WELMAR
SHIRT
Pat. 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers |
Outfitters
ƒd
1 Manufactured by ~—
WELCH, MARGETSON & Co.
PTY. LTD.
Queensland Park Caddie
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, -with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port;
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some • after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
' * N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.’
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free. Under
plain cover.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.


THREE CHEERS!!
y ■ *
Haig 8 Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)*
Franz Josef Lager Beer
MYSTERIOUS STOMACH
TROUBLES.' '
PHIXeiPAL. CAUSE REVEALED,
A grept deal qf mystery is made about
stonnach troubles, arid many people go in
constant dread of life-long incapacity or the
horrors of the operating table just because
they experience pain in the region of the
stomach for which they cannot account.
Instead of looking for the cause of the
trouble, they seem only too ready to de-
scribe themselves as “martyrs to indigestion”
or “chronic dyspeptics.”
Excessive acidity is said to be the direct
cause of more than 90 per cent, of all stomach
troubles, and, according to many eminent
physicians, the occasional use of a reliable
antacid, such as half-a-teaspoonful of pure
bisurated magnesia in a little water after
meals, will do more towards righting stomach
derangements than all the patent foods and
medicines ever invented, because this gets
at the root of the trouble —stops fermenta-
tion of the food contents, and neutralises the
acids which otherwise would irritate and
inflame the stomach.*
HOWARD Watch.
In more than one hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
factor.
Call and see the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
Maurice Blackburn, who is after Watt’s
Essendon (Vic.) scat, promises well. In
fact, promising with him amounts to a gift,
lie advocates the initiative and referendum,
the abolition of the House of Fat and the
obliteration of the habit of importing
State Governors. He wants secondary
and University education to be free
to all. Also, he has delved into
the “cost of living” problem, with such vigor
that he has almost burst out on the other
side. And finally he clamors for the estab-
lishment of fair rent courts. The elector
who asks for more than that is a Hog.
Sometimes a suspicion arises that litiga-
tion can be overdone. Thus in Sydney about
a dozen expensive lawyers have had to be
paid for a scrap that lasted several days
because one union wanted to forcibly annex
certain men from another union, and, of
course, annex their contributions. Hitherto
the man who sets type by machinery
has roosted after a friendly fashion
in the same union as his brother
who sets type by hand. But the
former artisan also repairs his own machine,
and by reason of this an effort was made to
drag him forcibly from his old associates
and class him with the people who fit up
locomotives and ships and some such work.
It seems a pity that it shouldn’t suffice for a
man to be a good unionist, and that huge
legal bills should be run up to decide whether
he is to be a blue unionist with stripes or a
green one with a feather in his ear.
HIS POLICY.
Another, very important matter that has been
decided is that the principle of Protection having
met with the support of the majority of the Aus-
tralian people, it is to be one of the main features
of the Ministerial programme.
—S. M. HERALD (11/6/’l4).
Regarding the fiscal question, the Opposition
leader said that the policy of the party was along
the lines of the New Protection, and, if returned.
they would pledge themselves to amend the tariff
during the session of the new Parliament to give
effective protection to Australian industries.
—S. M. HERALD (7/7/’l4.
AUSTRALIA : “It's on their cards all right;
but could a bloke trust either of ’em to
deliver the good's?”
It ill becomes Liberalism to gibe, as it did
last week, at the dissensions of Federal
Labor. The molecules of the Cook party are
themselves a weirdly disunited lot. F’rinstance
, W att denounces the initiative and refer-
endum as an invention of Satan; Crouch
supports it; Menzies, an organiser, derides
it; Mauger advocates it. Again, Crouch,
coßtesting the Henty seat against Boyd, the
A. \\ .N.L. nominee, declares himself a strong
Protectionist; on the other hand Bruce
Smith is still a Herculean Freetrader. Willie
Kelly, who used to be a Dreadnoughter, has
become converted to the local navy fetich;
but Conroy stands, as regards Defence, where
the whole. Cook crowd stood in 1909. Lib-
eralism includes several like Conroy—
strange fellows w r hose only apparent claim
to be members of the party lies in their
heated objection to every blessed plank of
its platform. And, finally, there is the Rev.
xarrington, of Sydney, who is contesting
Cook on the Home Rule issue.
HIS ECONOMY.
Meanwhile enterprises are afoot involving large out-
lays of public money, and either heavy addditional
taxation must be imposed —which in the circum-
stances would be criminally unwise—or other means
must be provided. —Joe Cook’s policy speech.
COOK: “You leave it to ME- I won't tax you,
but I know ’ow to raise the wind."
One of the most vicious attacks State
Premier Holman had to stand in the N.S.W.
Assembly last week was that of Levy.
There is a sort of poetic justice in this,
but what Levy gave the Borrowing Premier
was nothing to what he will get when Rull-
Colien starts on him about the unpaid bills.
That’ll be the time!
Prime Minister Cook says he “knows of
no name which has so much behind it as
‘Liberal.’ ’’ Well, undue development is
mostly a misfortune, but if the thing can’t
be avoided it is better to have it in front.
Then you can keep an eye on it in the
Turkish bath ; ..d see how it is getting on.
“H.H.” : I was reading through the enor-
mous legislative programme of the N.S.W.
Government, and I stopped at the promise
of a Town-Planning Act. Where are the
towns to be planned? At Jervis Bay, or
Twofold Bay, or Port Stephens, or any other
places where a new city is possible? Or
are they to be planned among the private-
landlord-owned areas of Balmain, or in the
back yard of Sydney G.P.0., or where?
From the N. S. Wales Assembly of poli-
tical cheap-jacks:—
Mr. Brinkr: I will show the hon. member that 1
have been quite as honest as he or his colleagues
have been.
Mr. Fitzpatrick: Honest in what way?
Mr. Brinkr: Jn every way, politically.
Mr. Fitzpatrick: It is well the hon. member savs
politically!
Mr. Brinkr: What floes the hon. member suggest?
Mr. Fitzpatrick: I say what I mean!
Mr. Brinkr: As I am in an ordinary state of good
health, if the hon. member repeated that outside, he
would never utter it again.
Mr. Fitzpatrick: Come outside and I will repeat
it!
But ho didn’t go, and what might have been
a commendable and reciprocal accident was
averted.
It was quite like old times when N.S.W.
Judge Docker rose in his bit of majesty the
other day and told a Criminal Court' jury
exactly what he thought of it. Old men felt
30 years younger when they read the story
and fancied they were back in the 70’s or
SO’s of last century. If only the jury was
allowed to say exactly what it thought of the
Judge, and the discharged prisoner was per-
mitted to express himself for, say, half an
hour about the Judge and the State wit-
nesses and the Public Prosecutor, and the
police were authorised to Billingsgate the
Public Prosecutor for his handling of the
case, and then everybody Billingsgated at
once, and the court was cleared amid wild
applause by the fire hose being turned on all
hands present, the proceedings would be
fairly/complete. -
The Watchman has burst into the Fed-
eral campaign with a loud yell to the effect
that any .Liberal Protestant should know
•what to do in regard to a Liberal candidate
who hasn’t the right brand of religion.
“Better a hundred times,” it screams, “a
man wdio is mistaken in other political mat-
ters than a disloyal higot who is the slave
of a party which cares for nothing but the
schemes of an aggressive and persecuting
Italian Church.” Undoubtedly the Watch-
man is right. Better the chains of Social-
ism and the confiscation of private property,
than the Inquisition at Canberra, the mar-
tyrdom of the yellow pup, and the Watch-
man burnt at the stake. Of two bogies
always choose the lesser.
Among the unaccountable circumstances of
Victoria’s Liberal organisation are the
People’s Party and F. O. Snowball. The
People’s Liberal Party counts for something ;
its president is 11. E. Brookes, of the Cham-
ber "of Manufactures. Also, the A.W.N.L.
—president Eva Hughes—is a circumstance.
But as to what or how few or who the
People’s Party is nobody knows. Sambell
is understood to be a city estate agent in a
small way. It has been said, on the other
hand, that he is an importer of toys. Again,
he has been accused of being a chemist. No
one seems to be quite clear as to what he is.
There is no record of his having done any
organising or electioneering work. He may
be a tremendous power to be used for prop-
ping up the ruined old Liberal throne. It
is possible, contrariwise, that he is merely
the visionary or ghostly president of a myth.
C. Churchill Tucker, of Sydney, bloomed
again lately on the usual old topic in the
S. M. Herald. He discovered, this time,
that N. S. Wales is being grossly wronged
by Victoria in London.
At the laying of the foundation-stone of the Com-
monwealth building in London I could not help feel-
ing I was in a Victorian atmosphere... .The site
adjoins the Victorian London offices, which have a
frontage to the Strand, and also a street called Mcl-
bourne-street... . The Bishop of Melbourne officiated.
. . . .The London Graphic, a few days afterwards,
devoted a double page to the mountain scenery of
Australia. I looked for views on the Blue Moun-
tains—but all 1 could see were pictures of the
Buffalo Ranges in Victoria.
Tucker ended his communication with the
dreary view that “Victoria is walking all
over N. S. Wales, not only in Australia but
also in Great Britain.” New York State
was compared in Hamilton’s Federalist
upwards of a century ago, to a beldame
cleaving to the village pump and howling for
Justice—or words to that effect. It would
be interesting to know what village pump
C. Churchill Tucker uses as a desk when he
is writing to the Sydney papers.
STRENUOUS WOOING.
The Liberal Government had determined' that any
acts of unscrupulousnss be sheeted home. and
those responsible punished. “Believe me.“ said Mr.
Cook, “this is a much more difficult business than sit-
ting up in a gallery and' talking about it. It means
hard work, it means vigilance, it means alertness; it
means skill in combating their machinations, it means
statesmanship; but we will do it, not talk about It.”
(Applause.)— Joseph. talking about the Trust.
POPGUN-AND-WOODEN-SWORD: “ My! If this
don't impress her and 'mill her heart! ”
Cook opened his countenance at Mary-
borough (Vic.) to tell the Farmers’ Confer-
ence that “the man was mad who proposed'
to pay for defence -out of revenue in time‘ of
peace.” And yet if Fisher accused" thd
entire British nation of 1 being demented, :Copk
would doubtless he the first to leap his"
own belltopper in a frenzy of Imperialistic
rage. < - ■>' ! r *"' x
The great King O’Malley, Federal ex-
Minister, proposes that the Australian war-
ships should be temporarily disarmed and
sent, naked and defenceless, as “white-winged!
messengers of peace" to the l’auama exhibi-
tion. It is a great idea, but what is the use
of sending disarmed messengers of peace to
a country which shows no sign! o£ a desire'
to attack us? Why not remove aili police
and other legal protection from O’Malley,,
and confiscate his weapons, and let him l lie a>
white-winged messenger of peace in his night-
shirt at his bedroom window, with & Tug"
notice displayed to the effect that the house
is wholly undefended?
THE SAME OLD CIRCUMFERENCE.
It is proposed to change the name “Liberal Party"
to “Democratic Party.”
AUST. : “ Gaen! Yer can't work that gas on
me. Yer still the same old Fat!"
During the attack on the Holman gov-
ernment in N. S. Wales Assembly the.-qther
night, by James, of Goulburn, the
produced the big financial plank in thp/L<lbor
party’s programme
Cessation of borrowing except for (a) rydflmption,
(b) completing works already authorised)by,Parlia-
ment, (c) undertakings which will pay,, iip forest from
the beginning, and provide 1 per cent. „ spjfeing fund.
Said Holman, the pawnshop runner, “Is that
the Labor platform or the Liberal platform?”
So apparently Holman doesn’t even
remember the programme that his crowd
swore to for the sake of office.
Summary of a two and a-lialf columns ,
report In the Southern Cross Times on the
recent visit of Premier Scaddan and Minister
for Lands Bath to Westonia (W.A.) : ■
The Mechanics’ Hall was filled to its utmost capu-:
city, and though it could not be said that anyone
was drunk it would be risky to take an oath thrall
present were sober.... As the Premier got gojng on
his speech a Scotchman insisted upon trying tp sing
a song. (At this stage a drunk fell 0ver.)))..... ..The
Premier closed his remarks by thanking tjie people
for their hospitality. (A man started shqpting- and
waving his arms wildly.) The chairman, banged’the
table with a beer bottle and called on the Minister
for Lands. Mr. Bath said he was a temperance
fanatic. (At this stage another drur.k fell over.)
The chairman then asked any gent, to favor the
company with a song, but a' speech had to do in-
stead. (One more drunk immediately bit the saw-
dust.) The speaker of the moment being unable to
get a hearing the chairman proposed the toast of
“The Day We Celebrate.”
And then another drunk fell down !
One F. Campbell, of Duntroon, lately
brought cheers from N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’;
Association :
The Government stroke was in evidence on k ope-
ra ilways. In the United States and the
railways were run by private companies.
They are. And by way of shoving how
private companies can run railways, a •
majority of (he shareholders" iji "the New
York, New Ilaven Co. arc
now chasing William Replsejeller, j. P.
Morgan, Lewis LedyaM ' and some other
directors with a writ for,.£c£kooo,ooo, on tlm
ground that they ihismauaged the railway’s
business. Awhile back the inter-State Com-
mission spoke h„little piece about the same •
lovely Private Enterprise :
The directors ha,d, been criminally negligent, and 1
had Wiblatdd 'Hi e law. They had frequently pur-
chased rolling stcjjjk .at 'a price times exceeding -
itsrwalue, ■ and (thete had been fictitious sales of stock;
anil'the. expenditure of. large sums .for: the; purpose j
influencing public opinion through'newspaper bribery
and i 1 ;politica 1 activity, including the bribery of '
legislators', and the profligate ..use of,, free passes.
There wa?-evidence of ,-corrpption on, a, wholesale •
scale./'' ’ ! '
If would Jake a whole lot of'‘‘Government t
sttoke” :to* knock that record : out.
Melbourne Argus, without, the least idea i
of casting reflections on. its own conseiva- -
tism, started 'a recent leading article with a i
quote from its ancient friend Macaulay, asi;
follows,: “ .‘They ,haj /dwindled into a /sroali'l
and - select company of incorrigible, foblsj’
wrote. Macaulay of the remnant? -who • still il
supported a discredited currency . system,’'.”
Changi “currency’-’-to “fiscal, v and the small !
and select company of Argus adherents isp
aptly; but impolitely described.
THE OUTSIDE AUTHORITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne Argus, talking of the initiative and
rQfeiendum, condemns the proposed reform as being
“out of harmony with the spirit of our race.” The
most serious consequences would ensue “if an outside
authority were by means of the initiative to compel
the Executive to act in disregard of Parliament.”
Were few, but, oh, we’re very wise!
The Lord contrived us to advise
The simple, poor providers.
We are the inner ring, the core.
The only things worth living for
Are ours. The masses, they who seek
With referendum’s power to speak,
Are impudent outsiders.
Put down this most destructive thing!
Preserve the prestige of our ring!
Defy the social shoddy !
Why should the common herd have votes
That are denied to sheep and goats?
They do not count. It holds good yet
That if a man’s not in our set,
He Isn’t anybody !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


D
m
Q
Q
a
D
O
)
0
o
()
o
PCfIFEC
ilk
■JI
£
v
K °io;< >i(" «&©#■
Write
for
Catedop'
t)
Vacuum Oil
Company
Pty. Lta
Throughout tho
Commonwealth and
New Zealand
fd
INVINCIBLE
MARINE,
STATIONARY &
PORTABLE
OIL ENGINES
“INVINCIBLE” ENGINES win Golden Opinions wherever they go. Here are a few
Testimonials from our 24=page book of similar testimony. Write for it.
Mr. THIEMANN, of PAYNESVILLE, GIPPS-
LAND (Vie.), writes:—
Re 5-h.p. “Invincible” Engine. I have the
most reliable engine here; it is as good as when
I got it (five years ago).
I’m a fisherman on the Lakes here, so am
always out in the motor in all kinds of weather;
never has your engine stuck me up yet.
Mr. A. E. BARTLEY, TIMARU (N.Z.), writes:
I have great pleasure in informing you of the
great success which has attended the installing
of your 15-h.p. “Invincible” Motor. With 65
passengers on board we made the very satisfactory
speed of 10 knots per hour, which I’m sure could
not be accomplished with any other engine that
I have seen. ' *
Mr. R. HENDERSON, of BALMAIN, writes: —
We have had 83 trips on Sydney Harbor, etc.,
and run approximately 1150 miles; the “Invinci-
ble” engine neither gives nor has given us the
slightest trouble You may judge of my opinion
of its merits by the fact that I have recom-
mended my brother to purchase one exactly the
same for his launch.
Mr. ARTHUR COOK of MACKAY (Q.), writes:
The 5-h.p. “Invincible” Engine performs quite
satisfactorily, and I am delighted with it. It is
the most silent motor on the river here. All
hands admire the “Made in Australia” Engine.
Messrs. A. & G. HOFFMANN, of ADELAIDE,
writes:—•
The 10-h.p. “Invincible” Engine is giving us
every satisfaction. It has been run continuously,
and is in first-class order, and we are pleased
with the high efficiency and thorough reliability.
Mr. WILLIAM BEACH, of DAPTO, writes:—
I’m pleased to state that the engine is going
beautifully; the passengers remark how smoothly
it runs, and without vibration.
Messrs. CROUDACE BROS., of BOOLAROO,
writes:—
The 5-h.p. “Invincible” Engine you installed
in our boat has to date run 14,400 miles in 2160
hours at a cost of 1056 shillings for oils and
375. 6d. repairs; during the two years we have
never had a stop, and we had an expert to look
over her last week, and he reported that she was
in as good a condition to-day as the day she was
installed.
If you want to read several hundreds of similar testimonials about
“INVINCIBLE” Engines, ask us to post you our publication No. 147.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. L™:
Works: WOOLWICH, N.S.W. (Australia). Skow Room: 55 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUNCALOW BOOKS
Brimful of Clever Suggestions and Ideas for
the guidance of Australian Home Builders.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
Post
Free.
“THE DRAUGHTSMAN” BUNGALOWS. Latest and most advanced
designs .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• 1/5
YE PLANRY BUNGALOWS. Views and Floor Plans of about 90
Low-priced Homes .. .. .. .. .. •• •• 2/3
CHEAP DWELLINGS, actually built .. . . . . . . 1/5
A BOOK OF CALIFORNIAN BUNGALOWS, 97 pages. A hand-
some book, showing the finest examples of medium-priced
Bungalows .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2/10
CRAFTSMAN HOMES, by Gustav Stickley. A delightful book of
Interiors, Exteriors, Furniture and Cabinet Work .. 0/8
MORE CRAFTSMAN HOMES, by Gustav Stickley. Cement and
Shingle Cottages, Log Bungalows, Summer Camps, etc. 200
pages 9/6
ROBERTS’ HOME BUILDER, Bungalows, Flats, Apartments. 90
pages 2/3
CEMENT HOUSES, and How to Build Them, by W. A. Radford.. 5/6
ARTISTIC BUNGALOWS, unique collection of 208 Designs, by
Radford . . . . . . .. .. . . . . ~ 5/O
COUNTRY COTTAGES AND WEEK-END HOMES, by F.lder-
Duncan. 213 pages and colored plates .. .. .. .. 6/6
PRACTICAL BUNGALOWS. Large variety of Plans to suit nearly
every taste .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2/9
ARTISTIC BUNGALOWS. 60 pages 1/8
CRAFTSMAN HOUSES, a book for Home Makers. 04 pages beauti-
fully illustrated .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2/9
COMMON-SENSE HOMES, a practical book for everybody, by
Spencer Sills .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6/9
COTTAGE BUILDING, by Allen 2/2
ART OF BUILDING, Dobson & Allen / 2/2
Australian Bungalow 8 Cottage Home Designs.
Contains an excellent variety of S 6 Plans and Elevations of Houses
from £250 to £1250.
New and Enlarged Edition, size 84in. x ll^in.
PRICE 3/10, post free.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
fd
Talking Machines
s \i
I
m
HI
I
have for several years enjoyed a larger
share of public favor than any other talking
machine, this favor being won by Sterling
Value —a popular award of merit.
Every detail in the 1914 Rexophone is of
new and improved manufacture. Better
Quality of material, better workmanship,
better design, better finish, and better re-
production.
To give a better instrument for less
money is the ambition which has placed
the Kexophone above all other instruments
in public estimation—and for Quality and
value the Kexophone is now supreme. Ab-
solutely first-class and reliable in every
detail—Cabinet—aiotor—T onearm and
Soundbox—the Kexophone is the one instru-
ment that can be purchased with perfect
confidence, and without doubt no one thing
can give so much pleasure to so many
people for so long a time at so small a
cost as a Kexophone.
All Kexophones, excepting the “Bute,”
are fitted with improved swan-neck tone-
arms, and the “Bute” can be fitted with
swan-neck for 5/- additional cost.
Swan-neck tonearms lengthen the life of
your records —the excessive weight and
obvious disadvantages of other tonearms
cause injury to records. No manufacturer
free to use the swan-neck tonearm will use
any other tonearm except upon low-priced
instruments. Swan-neck tonearms, although more expensive, are the most convenient
in use, and undoubtedly play better than any other.
Apart from the wonderful quality and value of the 1914 instruments, the one
outstanding feature is the magnificent tone—full, rich and brilliant, without any
harshness —loud and clear, without being noisy—no other instrument may compare
with the new Rexophone for sweetness and beauty of tone; and with every confidence
we may state that “to hear is to believe.”
Any kind of disc record can be played perfectly upon any Kexophone—its owner
has all the music of the world at his command.
Beware of imitations —nothing else is “just as good”—nothing else is “Just the
same.” Xiook for the name “Kexophone” on the cabinet.
The New Rexophone Catalogue is just issued. It contains full particulars of
all Kexophones, from the “Bute,” at 37/6 (New Zealand 50/-), the only quality talking
machine sold at a low price, also complete list of all the popular Kexophone Records.
10-inch and 13-inch. Write for a copy and address of local agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


The Carpentier-Smith affray was unsatisfactory,
the winner, seemingly, losing through a “bloomer.”
The best way to avoid mistakes in all scraps, busi-
ness and otherwise, is well regulated inspiration from
the wisdom brand, King George IV. topnotch Scotch.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCHS, LlillTED, Redfern, Sydney.
XatrS
are for the man who wants
“his” hat to be RIGHT.
They have the style, the
quality and the finish that
aopeal to the man who KNOWS —fit
lightly, comfortably AND SECURELY,
and retain their smart, distinctive shape
throughout.
Be sure your next hat IS a “Thorough-
bred” by looking for Regd. Trade Mark
(with horse’s head) on inside leather.
Newest shapes and designs—Hard or
Soft Felts —ALL
Leading Stores, Hat-
ters and Mercers, at
POPULAR PRICES.
If unobtainable,
write direct.
The Austral Hat
Mills Ltd.,
Abbotsford, I
Melbourne. f
ARM
SICK HEADACHE.
WOMEN SUBJECT TO FREQUENT
_ throbbing, bursting heads.
There’s many a cause. Men are not often
troubled by headaches ; when they are it is
generally due to biliousness or indigestion.
But women have headaches which seem pecu-
liar to their sex, frequent throbbing head-
aches. Does it not seem that such headaches
peculiar to women must be at once related to
womanly disease? Women who suffer with
diseases peculiar to the sex do not realise the
drain of vital strength and nerve force they
undergo as a consequence of disease. It is
this that causes the headaches of sick women.
In other cases these pains and disagreeable
feelings are generally symptoms of some
other complaint such as indigestion, bilious-
ness and constipation, all of which are
caused by corrupt, noxious matter clogging
the circulations; hence a stream or rush of
blood to the head, and by the excitement a
great pressure on the brain. “I had suffered
from bilious headaches for a long time.”
writes Mrs. Rose Palmer, of Foucart-street,
Rozelle, N.5.W.,. and having tried tonics
an .. otller medicines from doctors, without
rehef, I decided to give Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills a trial. After taking a dose of
two pills before a hot cup of tea I would
generally find instant relief from a throbbing
headache, which .had previously incapaci-
tated me. I can faithfully recomend your
remedy as a good cure for biliousness. These
puls are our family medicine. lam a
S- < ?, ther «- of ? ix , children and find Indian Root
fills effective with the older children when
necessary. You can use this testimony what-
ever way you deem fit.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Aviator Guillaux is evidently a man .of
Iris word. When he was competing- in the Pommery
Cup flight (France) he smashed some of the regula-
tions or broke through the red tape, or something,
and an infuriated governing body suspended him
for 10 years. Which was a savage and vindictive
thing to do. He immediately announced his inten-
tion of proceeding to Australia and astonishing the
natives by flying from Sydney to Melbourne. He
arrived in Australia, he astonished us all very
considerably, and last week he flew from Melbourne
to Sydney. It was not a continuous fight, but
consisted of eight stages, and the actual flying time
\vas eight hours two minutes, for a distance of 588
miles, equal to about 73* miles per hour. Which is
p. very wonderful performance. Still,' it is not
the most wonderful the same remarkable man has to
his credit. On September 13 last year, with a pas-
senger, he rode on the wings of the wind from
Savigny.sur-Bruges to Paris (France), a distance of
118 miles, in 50 minutes. Think of it —equal to a
speed of 1-12 miles per hour ! His highest speed between
Melbourne and Sydney was, 120 miles an hour, at-
tained between Ajbury and Wagga. At first he had
perfect weather conditions, but in N.S.W. he ran into
rain clouds, and felt the breath of the lightning
frisking round him. He lost himself in fog banks
sq thick that he could not tell' whether he was
ascending or falling, flying up-side-right or down-
side-up. The mountains he had to cross compelled him
to keep at least 10,000 feet high, and the' atmosphere
up there was icy cold. Again and again he was
drenched to the skin, and had to climb out of the
rain clouds to where the sunshine would dry him.
Sailing over rain clouds, with thunder muttering
and lightning flashing fitfully, while overhead out of
the cloudless blue poured the sunshine, the
trip must have been full of experiences. But the
cold destroyed the celestial impression, and made
the Frenchman sigh for an easy chair and a good
fire.
* * * *
Saturday’s round of Sydney lacrosse pro-
duced a crop of unholy wallopings, in which Bal
main topped the slaughter by obliterating Univer-
sity with 21 goals to six. Petersham was also in a
murderous mood, and smote Manly with .14 goals to
nil. Mosman overthrew St. George by 12 to two,
and Sydney fell on the loins arid neck of Eastern
Suburbs by six to two. The day’s spoliation left
Sydney on the top of the competition ladder with 20
points, followed by Petersham and Mosman, each
with 18. Balmain and Eastern Suburbs are to-
gether with 14. A bedraggled army brings up the
rear with single numbers.
Sydney baseball on Saturday was a joyous
time for mudlarks, and all the teams fa.ced the
plate in the district division. Paddington and
Petersham ‘supplied the fireworks, at Petersham, and
the latter went to shreds before their best girls
by 12 runs to six. Paddington’s consistent rising'is
a pleasant feature of the competition. ’Varsity and
Lane Cove supplied the closest tussle, however. ’Var-
sity won with a squeeze by nine runs to five. The
blood Of Mosman-N. Sydney fell on the grass at
the feet of Waverle.v by 16 to five —an awful hap-
pening ; while Leichhardt showed neither mercy nor
pity to Burwood and knocked it clean-out by 18 to
nil. The only teams with a chance for the semi-
finals are Waverley (11 wins). Leichhardt (10 wins),
Petersham (eight) and Paddington (seven).
11. Hayden put up a splendid performance
in the Newtown (Sydney) eight-mile road race, on
Saturday-, by getting over the stretch from scratch in
42min. 19sec. —nearly a minute inside the previous
best for th'e distance. Although a record was put
up, Hayden finished only in seventh position. It
was not the usual track of suburban roadway or it
would have taken Hayden a full day to get over the
broken metal and mud. The winner of the event,
A. B. Stephens (allowed 3min. 30sec.) recently gath-
ered the novice cross-country championship, and is
an athlete of promise.
Maoriland racing conference was out to
tread on somebody’s corns last week. It decided
to instruct licensing bodies to require from all
licensed trainers .and jockeys an undertaking to make
no wager with bookmakers while licensed. Also, a
new edict was issued under which an owner who
enters a horse in any race must undertake not to
bet with a bookmaker on that event. The M.L.
racing conference appears to regard Moss Shortodds
as a snare from which even seasoned habitues must
be separated.
Not for many teeafcons has the struggle for
the Victorian hoofball premiership been so keen
and close. With but a few games yet to play to
finish the first round no man can surely name more
than two of the select four in either League or Asso-
ciation. On Saturday the redoubtable “Old Blues;’’
of Carlton, who seem to have got into their stride
once more, and have successively polished off St.
Hilda, ’Wood and South, proceeded to ’Rov, and
after a,hard massacre of St, Bartholemew, sent the
Maroons the way of the rest by 46 points to 37.
The discussion was strenuous and exciting, but by no
means ornamental. Undue eagerness made for close,
congested play, only relieved by Carlton’s bright
marking and accurate kicking, the ’Roy ,18 being
swifter and handier, but woefully untidy. Out at St.
Hilda the locals got into holts with South, and
bogged in so strenuously that at lemon-time they
boasted 67 points to 31. —six goals to the good. The'
last quarter proved a •tremendous circumstance. The
Saints attacked when they got a chance, and added
two more goals, and South strove valiantly but
vainly through the fearsome incompetence of its for-
wards —only- three out of 11 shots going through the
goal. , So the Red and AVhites lost by 57 points to
Saints’ 79. ’Wood encountered ’Varsity in one of
the latter’s usual lax moods, and improved its aver-
age by piling up dO3 points to 23, and Essendon
polished, off Melbourne bv 99 to 41. Richmond, after
pulverising St. Kilda, ’Wood and ’Don, went to
Geelong, with three train-loads and several boat-loads
of excursionists, 'and returned in a properly chast-
ened spirit with a score of 30 points to Geelong’s
90 to cogitate over. This writer has before referred
to Geelong s mighty feats on its -own ground and
its painful calamities when playing elsewhere and
he privately opines the club sends an emissary to
accompany its opponents on the trip down, and that
he hypnotises or “hrozzes” them, or something. The
results of their games are Unaccountable any other
* * * *
The Victorian Association football games
were decisive in that they practically fixed' the four
teams to fight out the semi-finals—North ’Scray
Town and Essendon. P’ran has still the dim ghost
Of a chanee, but no more. The rest pass out. The
same P ran stayed in its accidental position,' and
pushed \\ick down among the “also ran" by collaring
4o points to 37. ’Wick deserved to lose, anyhow.
It got 22 scoring shot's, which should have meant
a j e .j a ( ozen goals. It realised just three, and that
ended the matter. Essendon outed Port, with 85
points to 66. Brighton stamped ’Cote further in
the mud, with 65 points to 45 ; and ’Town main-
tained its solid position by annexing 79 points to
Hawthorn’s 64. The chiefest scuffle happened at
lootscray, where the locals, by downing North,
raised themselves to a level with their opponents at
the top of the tree. It was a fearsome proceeding,
and gave the barrackers a full sixpenn’orth of joy,
®cray ultimately gaining 34 points to North’s 32.
North has at present a better point-average than
ocray, but the latter has vet to meet ’Cote, and if
it grabs the full possibilities of the occasion the
ii lC N? es W 1 , 1 ,1 themselves let in for the father of
ail the that ever were.
. During the week Melbourne Law conversed
with a “muscular Christian” playing with the Graham-
street Methodists, in the Churches’ competition.
Grahams were playing Howe Crescent Sabbath
School, and the umpire, having occasion to rebuke
the muscular youth for elbowing, was straightly
outed with a woodener on the point. After that the
M.C. handed him a few uppercuts with the boot and
other insults that necessitated a rest in hospital.
The Law was in favor of hard labor without the
option, but was ultimately persuaded to make the
penalty £6 and costs. There appears to be some-
thing amiss with the brand of Christianity dispensed
at Graham-street Methodist Church. Possibly a
course of boxing lessons in the Sunday-school might
teach the religionists to fight fairly.
Middle Brighton (Vic.) lias been kicking
some tall scores of late. Against Heatherton the
team scored 42' goals 40 behinds (292 points) to nil ;
but in the next match, against Moorabbin Park,
couldn’t do better than 47 goals 5 behinds (287
points) to two goals. One Bob Edmunds was so well
fed that he booted 42 out of these 47 goals, which
is a record, or thereabouts. In its last three
matches Middle Brighton has put up 769 points to
the ot-.er follows’ 28.
WELL MEANT BUT INEFFICIENT.
Darcy with a death-dealing right discovers
that Holland is an elusive animal.
In spite of the dreary day, the dead and
buried corpse of the weather, and the sodden nature
of the ground the N.S.W. Rugby Union attracted
10,000 people and two Governors to the Sydney
Sports Ground on Saturday afternoon, and treated
them to a fine display of football and battle. Even
in the international struggle between Australia and
Maoriland the fist was used somewhat too freely, but
in the seven-aside preliminary, or curtain-raiser, or
whatever they call it, one gentleman suddenly
“outed” an opponent, knocking several of his teeth
over into South Australia. This brilliant piece of
individualism led to argument, which resulted in a
really magnificent stand-up, roll-in-the-mud rough
and tumble right in front of the vice-regal box. It
was a beautiful sight, and the Union should recog-
nise the behavior in the proper way, and not be
mean when passing out the recompense. It is not
every day vice-royalty has the chance of seeing such
a primitive raw-meat mill.
It was the first international match of the
tour, and Australia made a much better stand than
N. S. Wales had done a week earlier. The home
pack was distinctly superior, and by its aggressive-
ness prevented the Maoriland forwards feeding their
back machine. Both sides were out to win fairly, if
possible, and to hang their opponents on a sour
apple tree if necessary. The Maoriland team is a
fine body of men, but unfortunately it contains more
than one blighter or apostle who is more anxious
to pldy the man than the ball. Referee Pauling
had a busy time with them. The \yhole of . the un-
pleasantness which raged right through the match,
and. especially in the first half, was due to the
tactics of the blighters afore-mentioned. The Maori-
land backs were magnificent, and their use of the
touchline was a masterpiece. In offence they never
employed it, but as a means of defence it was a
great weapon—as it was intended to be. Had the
visiting team been as effective on the charge as it
was when struggling for its life on the goal line
history had told a different tale. Half-time was
reached without any figures appearing on the scoring-
board. It was a sudden dribbling charge near the
end of the game which gave the Maorilanders victory
—a pretty rush over 30yds. or so, and then a
sudden rally, and someone had crossed and 'touched
down. The extra points were quickly added, and
aathough play went on for some time afterwards the
flame was decided. That rush had declared the
fate of the day, and completed Maoriland’s century of
victories over Australia in test football. During the
Thirty Years’ War Maoriland has lost only twice—
ih Australia in 1910 and in Maoriland in 1913. But
on Saturday it was mighty lucky. A fortunate chance
gave it the victory, and it was only by stmnu-
ously playing the line in defence that the strdnler
team was kept at bay. For the home team was
undoubtedly the stronger. Still, like life and
marriage and mining speculation and death and
the habit of falling down precipices on a Friday
football is largely a matter of luck.
* * * . *
While these stirring deeds were happening
at the Sports Ground the League was pursuing the
te "? r ° f its ninth round. South Sydney collided
with Glebe, and looked like going under. At half-
time Glebe was right on top with five points to
nil, but the Southern men stuck to their guns, and
eventually won through with six points to five. Bal-
main and North Sydney had a mud-larking competi-
tion in the North Sydney oval, "in which the for-
wards of both sides showed great grit and consider-
able speed. In fact some of them travelled faster
than ever before in their lives once they got going
on that greasy ground. It was like sliding down a
buttered slope to perdition. The ball was as elusive
as an oiled cloud, so after much travail the argu-
ment ended in a draw with two points each. East-
ern Suburbs met Western at the Agricultural Ground,
and got into trouble even as the young chicken get-
teth into the soup. But the Western supremacy did
not last, and at half-time it had faded down to 10
points to nine. During the first part of the second
half the Western crowd held its own, and then the
premier club’s back machine awoke to the fact it
was playing football and not attending a Dorcas
meeting. It began to work. It worked harder
and faster, and faster and harder still, till the
Western defence crumbled away and the premier club
stalked home with 25 points to 10. Annahdale had
a bad time at the boots and bunions of Newtown, and
was overthrown, the figures being 21 points to five.
There are only five more rounds to go, and the
three leading clubs are practically bunched together.
South Sydney with 15 maintains its precarious lead
of one only from Eastern Suburbs and Newtown,
North Sydney has nine, Glebe eight, Balmain seven,
Western Suburbs four and Annandale one.
* * * »
The chief feature of the Sydney Soccer
upheaval on Saturday last was the uprising of Gran-'
yille, which raged akin to the wowser when it crashed
into Canterbury at Clyde. Canterbury melted like
snow, and the bounding iron-workers stamped it flat
by eight goals to nil. This is a tremendous score
for Soccer. Balmain downed Newtown by one to
nothing, Glebe belted Northern Suburbs by three to
nil, Annandale slew Sydney dead with two goals to
one, and would have slain it several times deader
had it been able to kick more accurately. But
accurate kicking was hard to do on Saturday. Gran-
ville is the unbeaten team in the competition, and
is leading with 18 points. Balmain .follows with 14.
Annandale and Sydney have 12 and 11 respectively,
and below them are four buried institutions with
tombstones at their heads and feet.*
The Australian code matches in Sydney on
Saturday were not wildly exciting, the ground being
altogether too wet for the finer points of this the
most skilful form of football. South Sydney is far
ahead in this competition, having 48 points to the
4° of Sydney and, the 32 of Central Western and
1 aldington. Newtown has 28, North Sydney 16,
and East Sydney eight. So, to all appearances,
•South Sydney will win the minor championship,
which will give it the right to challenge for a' play
oft any club which may lay it low in the course of
the semi-finals.
* * * *
On Saturday the English XIII was at the
beautiful seaside town of Napier (M.L.), the charming
place that spreads itself over seven geranium-covered
hills. Life is so pleasant in Napiei' that the local
youths are never much good at football. It is the
city of the lotus-eaters, and when the Englishmen
dragged the local, youths from under the willows of
1 etane they fell upon them and crushed them with
, .Points to seven. The surprising part of the
score*at all Hawkes Bay team managed to
* , * * r
The amateur boxing and wrestling cliam-
irPn WhlC i h occur annually at Melbourne Athen-
sum Hall, made sport for the Gee-Gee and the State
Governoi and the usual crowd of enthusiasts during
a hve nights season. Amateur stousli has been run-
for 10 years past in Melbourne, and
though it has panned out very payably for the
A.A.A., the boxers and wrestlers haven’t improved
“5 , thc average quality of the champs,
showed a decided falling off this time. R. Mae-
garvey, last year’s feather winner, outclassed It. T
Carroll at every point of the game. Bert Pric-
who is also an amateur horseman, lobbed so many
blows on the top-piece of J. s. Toohey that re™
\al Quirk declared the business cancelled inside a
round, and Price annexed the bantam honors. A.
t’ t> , n b °s ?ecl Y' t 0 ,IIS lightweight opponent, W.
J. Bodsworth, and gained a sound decision after
H? e i. u, l four rounds. The Welter champ, went to
I. Murton, who defeated T. A. Nelson without any
damage being done, .or any skill displaj'ed. P.
Pallshaw beat J. Gellatly in the “middle,” after a
most uninteresting show. In the heavy division
K Caldwellmet J. Schmidt. The pair .waltzed
and smote the air with terrific force. Caldwell
held his right as if he cither meant to put the shot
?L play Schmidt, however, managed to do
less than Caldwell, so the shot-putter got the ver-
clict. The wrestling, in alleged catch-as-catch-ean
style, has not developed since it was added to the
boxing bill in 1906. In • every division the same
fault occurs—the boys will make the contest Graco-
Koman. They all wrestle catch-where-you-can in
the same Graco-ewm-catch style as Hackensehmidt,
and there was an entire absence of leg work and clean,
falls from the standing position. C. Angelo beat R. G.
Rniley, who has downed all-eoi&ers in the feather
division for several years. C. F. Johnson got a
points decision over A. F. Bridges (another ex-
champion) ; W. Meesko, whose admirers have fed him
up on his own importance, placed another win to his
credit in the middleweights, .after upsetting W. T
Tonkin effectively. P. Fatooras, a fine sample of
Greek athleticism (12st. 111 b.), fully extended R.
Jenkin, who has won very comfortably since 1911.
JenAin secured a fall in 4min. 45sec, and this suf-
ficed, as no other came to pass. “Fat” stuck to
his man in the accepted American style, of which
Gotch is the greatest exponent. Jenkin, who is
very lengthy, does not make the best use of his le^s.
If j schooled by a clever “Cousin Jack” exponent "of
upping 1 , his next annual job would come dead easy
to him. Writer, who has seen champions come and
go m th l si-oin p ejj tion since.l9o6, canjvithout.hesi-
tation hand over the bun to the present wrestling
referee, Billy Gibson, as the most finished 'catch-
canner ever seen amateur mat hereabouts.
When Sapper O’Neill and Joe Welling
fought m Sydney, -and Joseph received the blessing
of Pharaoh Baker, there was a very hostile demon-
stration. The Sapper was not quite in condition at
the: time, so the second meeting in Melbourne last
Saturday me-ht, with O’Neill as well as could be
\vas fraught with some interest over and above the
attraction that alwavs hedges a decent scrap. Both
fought: vimfullv, and each had an intense respect for
the other, with the result that the battle was a
elever-combat that lasted 20 rounds. At the end
of that .time refere.e Newhouse unhesitatingly placed
a ba "d on the head of each, and sent them round to
whack the purse equally. A result that seems to
justify the previous decision of Pharaoh Baker
TThe Sydney Stadium filled itself to the
lid on Saturday night to watch Les Darcy, the Mait-
land blacksmith boxer, fight Fritz Holland. Whv
so vast a crowd should have been present to watch
this scuffle it is impossible to say. Truly i here was
a n } o h> mostly lunatics and hoodlums, from the
Maitland and Newcastle districts, but there must
have bean 16,000 people in that place on Saturday
night, and there are only about 6000 recorded luna-
fle* ,\ n * . State, many of them women. The most
notable points about Darcy were that he had a fist
so laige that a special pair of gloves had to be
made for him and that he had been a good boy to
his mother. Judging by the specimens of Maitland
population seen in the Stadium on Saturday night
young Darcy’s second claim to fame is good—in
Maitland. He must be a real curiosity in his own
district. It is quite possible that had the press
agents advertised with stress the details of Darcy’s
wonderful green satin trunks the crowd would have
been bigger. The trunks had been obviously made
by some fond relative of the gentler sex, who in
wild enthusiasm, had put frills on them—and a
boxer in frilled trunks is worth going to see Darcv
is at the pimply stage of life, and if pimples were
worth a sovereign each he would have no need to
risk his beauty in the square ring. He wore a
cheerful expression in addition to his pimples and
his frilled pants, and Holland smiled back amiably.
Immediately the gong went Darcy hurled himself
' wv. t J? e " ray ’„ and 1 llkc lightning, lie hit with
both hands alternately, and then he hit with both
hands simultaneously. And he can hit. The furv
V IS sniggered Holland for a few seconds, but
that experienced ring craftsman soon pulled himself
together, and gave Darcy his arms, gloves and
elbows to batter at. Darcy’s speed was out of the
ordinary, and Holland had taken quite a lot about
the body before he properly seized the inwardness
of things. After that he set to work ti side-step
his rushing opponent's tremendous wallo s to the
body—and did it. His head was kept qu te out of
Daicys reach In a manner of speaking he took
it off and put it on a high shelf for sa -ty. At
regular intervals Holland would lean foi rard and
deliver a straight left, and Darcy’s head would be
seen to shoot backwards. When they got into
clinches Holland uppercut his enemy. Against a
straight left the enemy had absolutely no defence ex-
cept the eiTdiirapce of crude and scorbutic youth. After
a time Holland began to send his right home to the
body, and the amount of punishment Darcy assimi-
lated, apparently without effect, was amazing When
he went to return it Holland skurri'ed wildly round
° ut , of ri; ach only to ’Atop suddenly and
®“ e operations. Of Darcy’s courage, hitting
but L an u i tin T la , , one , can sa T nothing but praise,
had , l‘ 0t ~ tle knowledge to turn them to
account, and he was eas'ily putpointed by his older
and wiser opponent. It was a fight beween Genesll
®° lo . mon - Darcy was crudity personified. If he-
intends to continue in the boxing- business the best
Hollander H to , r i >Ut hhnSelf U " derSOme g°od teacher!.
, , „ ■ u™ Very well > and without a doubt
mu 1 !, ave !llt hlm more numerously than he. did
M hen the gong of peace sounded Harald Baker gave.
the only possible decision, and placed his h,w on,
he somewhat hairless brow of Holland. Any other
n ~u en a dl-a w—would have been barefaced'
l Darcy was utterly outclassed.
favornhlo b tn* n°°° back-benchers who wqre furiously
w 1 Da T cy a , r ß se and commenced to hoot
wth IhlYr T U Y hS Z h,le thcy kicked a n d : stamped!
JJj®} 1 , fe ,f- , Tke noise became indescribable,,
ynnn S hnot 0 ,.= Ulk °- tke , audience filed out,, but the.
2°°o hooteis remained to make a disturbance, -Feel-
ing that hoot was inadequate they gathered the.
newspapers the audience had left behimlthem and!
made heaps of them to which they set fire They
dropped burning sheets througli the cracks betweem
the planking of the floor. The first attendant who>
severed l ° ll t, one ,° f tll€Se QQPflSgratiijns was;
" h l ed -. rken Fred Baker, tunned’ the hose
on to one burning heap, but he and' his assistants
Reeiu.Hd ni^l < ed ,7 ith , { mixed with curses,
i _S B . aker hnpself had a narrow escape, one
bottle missing his face by the fraction of an inch
Fred e ß b i y h<3 ° f - bottles from tk e fire station
tied Baker and his assistants turned off the lights
and manning another fire station poured water pro-
miscuously. The would-be incendiaries broke and
vor’ “ * one of the ßf apparently fired a revol-
as, he /an .Outside the Stadium they pulled
! m m fh S and announced their resolve to ,
stoim the building. They stormed, but were met
by about 20 police. So they retreated to the outer,-
st a ones eS thrn he h e th ®T nat *i rall y belonged, and hurMq
h 0 Jgh windows into a building where . girT
mSoritv e oriT Untlng . tick £ ts ' ]t is said thaVttfe
S ofi y i f !, he f e noters hailed fr °m Maitland (and;
t 0 f Uggest that th ® opeping;
P ,°n Stephens as a deep-sea outlet is urgent '
Apparently there is something wrong about Newcastle,.
ff might interest the hoodlums who. riotedn
tiver the decision that the Stadium management, was
.rust as anxious as they were to see Darcy wfnT 11
W s Ifoband s last battle and he was already bookedi
to r Jt S tb P r aSS T’m S 0 th ?> Stadium had
tq get through him. But, on the , other hand,^ could j
the Australian novice knock out the ring general'
ein nnn , Wo ” ]d ba 'T. been worth anything ‘up to
±.10,000 to the Stadium company. Consider what
a draw-card Darcy would have been could he have-
won by the k.o, path ; and even a decision on points-
would have meant a lot of good hard cash.
greater the glory with which Darcy burst on the-
Australian boxing firmament the more monev he-
would for the Stadium from the public pocket.
And that is what the Stadium principally exists
True to his intention to get back his
sculling punch,” Dick Arnst is swinging the axe
and taking violent exercise in the wooded dells of
Mount . Victoria. XILS.W..),. Already superfluous flesh
has mingled with the chips, and the next step will
be into the boat on the Parramatta River. Arnst
has an eye on the world’s sculling bauble again, and
the winner of the Paddon-Barry struggle is to be
challenged by this impetuous son of Maoriland.
(Continued on page 3Jf.)


Increase Your Strength
by My Postal Course.
In the privacy of your own room you may
quickly improve your health and increase
your strength.
My Health and Strength Exercises have
won unstinted praise throughout Australasia
for their thoroughness, and the wonderful
results they have secured.
Read these letters: —
“I feel splendid, never felt better in
all my life. Thanking you for the good
your Course has done me. —‘C.W.E.,’
Maryland, N.S.W.”
“I have put on over a stone in weight
since I began your course.—‘J.R.B.,’
North Unleyj S.A.”
'j'hat will give you an idea of how much
you' can benefit. I’ve just added a number
of new exercises to my Course —exercises
which were discussed and demonstrated dur-
ing my conferences early this year with MAX
MULLER, the celebrated Danish Physical
Culturist; with the GREAT EUGENE
SANDOW ; and with BERNARR McFADDEN.
the leading American exponent of Physical
Cultui’e.
These new exercises are the latest and best
work of modern progressive specialists in
development of body, and ridding it of the
ills brought about by neglect. They’ve been
thoroughly tested in Europe and America, and
are getting wonderful results. Why not share
in these benefits, also?
••a
ir
You ought to write for further information awl fees, for mv POSTAL COURSE OF
HEALTH EXERCISES. A 48-page interesting booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
I ROM SELF-CULTURE,’’ will be sent you. Write now, sending three penny stamps for
postage.
REG. L.
(“Snowy”)
BARER
343 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
DO
YOU
like a mild cigar?
Then you should try
my
HELENA
Dutch
Planters
They are excellent
smokes, mild in flavor,
and delightful in
aroma. Each cigar is
enclosed in a fibre
wrapper. I import
them direct from Idol-
land, hence their low
price.
In Boxes of 25, 7/6;
100, 30/-
Postage, 25, N.S.W.,
Gd.; Inter-state, Bd.
100, N.S.W., • 1/3 ;
Inter-State, 2/2.
My Catalog of Cigars,
Cigarettes, Tobacco,
etc., should interest
you.
Write for a free copy.
A. M. Solomon
“ Cigar Expert,’'
ďfd
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Si
SHELL
99
A
M. GUILLAUX,
„ \
the
First Aerial flail,
IYielbourne=Sydney,
J M used
“Shell Benzine
fd
fd
OXO
eles
HENDEE^KNUI^
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres > £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
THE RIGNEY SHOE
fd
There’s a pleasure in being, and feeling, well-
dressed. Begin right—at the feet. You are
certain to have stylish and correctly-fitting
shoes, if you choose Rigney footwear. Rig-
ney Shoes'give you an added pride in your
appearance.
The illustration is a Tan Willow Calf, Three-
Button Shoe,-Smart American Shape, Brown
Cloth Tops, “Non T Tread-Over” Brand, test
English Manufacture,
Also in Pateht Leather,- -
32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
32|6.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Building's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND **
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
• '* .
iisjis _
r ■
r.’ • ‘
I Itfll iiiiMi ■»£'* <
1 ■■—"
m
:
:
- ■
'O-v *•*■*.«» i*. Ilpf ,ip > *
■ ' - • ■ ;
Hii
■
■.
:k
m
.g
"t
m
■
:
*v
", ':
saw
■ ■
Mm
s
tv-,:
m
V
HI
'"V .-V'.V,;
■fcs . ..
Bosisto’s ” Parrot Brand •* Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises,Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
*203
r
SUIT
r
FOR
a
The “Sovereign ” Offer
of the Australian
Tailoring Year
the Biggest Thing possible in the
way of Suit-Values—the “Golden”
opportunity of the careful man—the
proposition a certainty of
clothing-satisfaction at an equally
certain saving of 20/- in hard Cash—
that’s our Special Offer of “a 70/-
Suit for 50/-”
The simple fact that the Suits are
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Tailored to Order
is in itself sufficient certificate that the
Tailoring anti the Workmanship will be
right up to what you desire in this direc-
tion in your Clothes, while the Suitings are
all of a standard manufacture—not an
inch of “shoddy” in the whole lot. But
you need not depend altogether on our
voucher as to the quality of the Stuffs; you
can exercise the test of your own judg-
ment by personally examining the samples.
Write for Patterns—To-day
—a full range, showing the latest in
Fashionable Designs, and featuring the
prevailing Grej s and Browns, will be sent
you, with a copy of our Catalog, Self-
measurement Forms,' Tape's, etc., post free,
by return. Remember
We Guarantee Satisfaction.
We. Pay Freight and the Offer ends with
August.
PTY-LTD.
■Bailors
244-254 Flinders St
(Opp.Cent.Rly.Stn)
MELBOURNE
il
#5
39
I


Is Baby
strong ?
strong enough to resist
the coldness, dampness and
changing temperatures of
winter. If not, there are sure
to come coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, whooping cough,
measles or one of the many
childhood ailments. Don’t
run the risk; start giving
SCOTT’S Emulsion now.
Then, day by day, you will
see baby grow sturdy and
strong, with firm limbs, the
colour of health and all the
vigour of natural strength.
The restless nights of the
teething period are unknown
to the child that grows
strong and keeps strong on
scorns
Emulsion
1874
TRADE
xS
fh
1914
MARK
But, if you value baby’s
health, be sure to see the fish-
man on the package you buy.
WHAT FAMOUS DOCTORS SAY OF
ANTINEURASTHIN,
THE NEW BRAIN AND NERVE FOOD.
DR. GUISEPPE LAPPONI, Physician-in-Ordinary
to His Holiness Pope Pius X., wiote: “ ‘Antineuras-
thin’.... is an admirable agent for toning and
strengthening the nervous system. I shall not fail
to recommend it to my colleagues.”
DR. ZAMARA, Physician to the Bad Hofgastein Health
Resort, wrote, after making a careful analysis and sub-
jecting “Antineurasthin” to exhaustive personal tests:
“In proportion as mankind is weaned from the use of
nerve-destroying drugs and devote their attention to
your healthy Nerve Food, they will be cured of
Nervousness.”
DR; P. KRESST, Nerve Specialist in Berlin,
treated a patient of 75 years of age with remarkable
results, and wrote: “I made use of ‘Antineurasthin’
tablets in a condition of senile exhaustion of the
Nervous System with a success which appears unques-
tionable.”
DR. HON, the Director of the Russian State Hospital
for Epileptics at St. Petersburg, reports magical results
obtained from trials made exclusively with “Anti-
neurasthin” on Nerve Sufferers. An immediate and
marked increase in mental vigor and bodily strength;
increased appetite and sleep, removal of constipa-
tion and tendency to tire rapidly of work ; calmness
and marked increase in self-confidence, etc.
ANTINEURASTHIN Cures by Feeding the Brain
and Nerve Centres.
A FREE TRIAL will be sent on receipt of 2d. in
stamps to cover postage by the Wholesale Agent,
H. A. Goddard, No. 3 Australasian Chambers, 406-14
Queen Street, Brisbane; or branches: 194 Vickery’s
Chambers,. 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; 9-16 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s
Buildings,' Queeh Street, Auckland. SERIAL No. 810.
Guaranteed under the Pure Foods Act of New South
Wales by H. A, GODDARD, Sydney, to contain not
less than 10 per cent, pure Lecithin, No. 810. [1
Cigar and Cig'arette
Smokers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped—Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
False Teeth MUST
be kept clean !
DENSO
does it
per box, posted
free to any part
of the Common-
wealth.
Thoroughly!
FREE SAMPLE on receipt of
Id. for postage, from
J. M. WILKES 8 CO.,
Alphington, Victoria, Aust.
(2
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
" National Monthly. Price 6d.
Home-made Beauty Helps
and Money-saving Recipes.
By RITA MOYA.
It is quite impossible for me to give advice in these columns regarding the merits of
various preparations on the market. In general, my advice to women who wish to retain,
or regain, their youthful appearance is to avoid the many unreliable, cheap, made-up pre-
parations. Nature provides many simple “beautiflers,” and the best results are obtained
from their use. You must not be disappointed if you experience a little trouble in obtain-
ing some of the ingredients mentioned below. They can all be obtained, however, from any
reliable chemist, and even if he does not happen to have them in stock he will gladly
obtain them for you at a few hours’ notice, if you insist—and you should insist. The
smart, dainty woman of to-day likes to know what she is using.
Sure Way of Permanently Removing;
Superfluous Hairs. —The usual hair removers
on the market I have found not at all satis-
factory. I recommend the following prepara-
tion. It is really wonderful in its action,
destroying hairs completely in a few moments.
Many women have merely a down on the arms
and face, and imagine they do not need a
hair remover. They hardly realise what a
wonderful difference there would be in their
appearance if this down, even light as it
may be, were removed. Get at any good
chemist an ounce of pure powdered pheminol.
Mix a little of it into a paste with water and
apply it to the hair growths. Wasli off after
two minutes and the hairs will have entirely
disappeared. A little non-greasy face cream
can then be applied with advantage.
Powder Not Necessary.— Few women know
that it is possible to give the complexion a
delightfully smooth, velvety appearance in a
few moments by the application of ordinary
cleminite. If you have no cleminite in the
house, get about an ounce from your chemist
and dissolve it in four tablespoonsful of cold
water. This lotion applied to the face, neck
or arms, with the finger tips, immediately
gives that peach-like bloom so much admired;
powder is not necessary, and the result lasts
all day long. For an evening in a hot ball-
room this recipe is unrivalled. You will not
get that greasy, shiny look so often seen after
a little exertion.
Natural Wavy Hair. —You hair will regain
its rich lustre and fluffy appearance if cleansed
occasionally with a mild shampoo. The very
best thing I know of for this purpose is plain
stallax, a teaspoonful of which dissolved in
a cup of hot water is sufficient for the thickest
growth of hair. Pure stallax, however, seems
rather expensive, as it is only sold in the
original packages which cost half a crown
This quantity, however, is sufficient for 25 or
30 shampoos, so it really is most economical
in the long run. Dry, irritating or profusely
oily scalps are soon put in a healthy condi-
tion. and dull, brittle hair grows bright and
even in color, and will be ever so soft and
fluffy.
Hair Culture. —There is no excuse for falling
hair; no excuse for thin, sick hair, or bald
spots. No beauty of features can make up for
a distressing lack of hair growth, and the
formula which I purpose giving you will posi-
tively force the hair to grow. Mix about an
ounce of boranium in i-pint of bay rum,
shake the bottle well and allow it to stand for
half an hour, then add J-pint of fresh cold
water and strain. Rub well into the scalp,
and in two weeks’ time look for the new
growth; you will not require a microscope to
see it.
To Renew Complexions without Cosmetics.
—lf the excessive user of cosmetics only
knew the impression her artificiality really
makes upon others, she would quickly seek
the means of gaining a natural complexion.
Let her acquire the mercolised wax habit, dis-
carding make-up entirely, and she will soon
have the kind of complexion that women envy
and men admire. It is SO easy to get a
little mercolised wax from the chemist and
use it nightly like cold cream, washing it off
in the morning. Gradually the lifeless, soiled
outer cuticle peels off in tiny invisible flakes,
and in a week or so you have a brand new
complexion, clear, soft, velvety and of girlish
color and texture. The treatment is so simple,
harmless and marvellously effective the won-
der is that every" woman whose skin is with-
ered and discolored has not already adopted it.
[7
Established 1847.
Allcock’s
Plasters
The Worlds Greatest
External Remedy.
■«r
A
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Plasters ad as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Prevent colds becoming deep seated
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous plaster.
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain .
When you need a Pill
take a Brand reth's Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation ( Biliousness, Headache, Dizzinoss, Indigestion, Etc*
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
ƒd
v*
lYoarAf&maz
<Q>
The
) New Wav
Cash's Woven Names
AVOID the inconvenient pen and ink method and mark you?
linen and clothing (handkerchiefs, shirts especially) by using
CASH’S Names. These names or initials are woven in Turkey Red
Lettering (several styles) on Fine Cambric tape. They
NEVER come off—NEVER wash out —NEVER fade.
Obtainable ALL DRAPERS AND CLOTHIERS.
A*k for CASJTS-the name '■s on the box. Write for
Your Name
Samples to J. & J. Cash Ltd.
46-250 Flinders Lane. Melbourne.]
r\
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seven
Prize Medals.
a®
c*
Works i Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Mercedes cars had a regular day-out
in the Grand Prix de France, when the first three
places were filled by the machine with the romantic
monniker, and all shod with Continental tyres. The
struggle took place at Lyons, where the silks come
from, over a course of 23J miles, till 486 miles had
been covered. Thousands of pounds had been spent
on the road to make it as -perfect as possible, and
when the day came there were 41 contestants
(France, 12; Italy, 11; Germany, eight; England,
six; Belgium and Switzerland, two each). Launten-
sehlager (hereinafter known as Lager), who drove
the winning car, ran over the distance in 7hr. lmin.
18sec., or an average of 694 miles per hour.
*** • * '
Timaru (M.L.) has a boy billiard player
who threatens to rival George Gray. His name is
Clark McConachy, his age is 17 years, and his dad
keeps a billiard saloon, or, rather, the saloon keeps
dad. The son’s chief stroke is the losing hazard off
the red, and breaks of 200 and 300 come from; his
cue with monotonous regularity, while his best effort
to date is said to be 1083, nearly all off the three
ball. As this break was made in dad’s saloon it is
being regarded with the cold eye of suspicion, but
several fairly truthful people say it was made all
right.
Flying is such a matter-of-course thing now
in England that all the good men have to do trick
feats to justify their being in the air at all. Here
are one afternoon’s extra turns, in addition to a six-
mile race: (1) Parachute descent; a man, pushed off
a biplane at 2000 ft., fell 300 ft. head downward, then
meandered down on the parachute in 2min. Bsec.
(2) Three loops, nose dive, two tail slides, and
upside-down flight. (3) Circuit of the course, stand-
ing, with hands off the controls. (4) Descent from
2000 ft. with engine shut off. The same day B. C.
llucks broke all records by somersaulting 16 times,
starting at 3000 ft. and stopping only because he
was too close to the ground. Then he flew upside-
down for two miles.
“Billy T.”: Re female spectators at fights.
When I first took up with stoush as a form of mental
relaxation I frequented a dolorous hall out on the
eastern edge of Melbourne, where the advertised
'fight came off sometimes, though more often the
paying partron was expected to be content with a
scratch scrap, one of the parties to the original
contract being sliick, sick, “pinched” or otherwise
detained. One night a woman was found in hiding in
a small room attached to the hall. The manager
went in to eject her. He said he thought witnessing
fights was demoralising to the tender sex, and would
tend to rob woman of her angelic attributes. The
manager was thrown out of the room on his head.
He sent his MIC. in to persuade the lady to abandon
her avowed intention of witnessing the fight. The
M.C. came out in time to save his eyebrows. Most
other features and things were scratched off. Then
the manager bribed a colored heavyweight with five
shillings to elbow the lady out. The discolored
brother was absent lOsec. ; then he came forth
hurriedly. “’Tain’t no use, boss,” he said. “Better
let her stay. I know you can’t shift her —she’s jna
wife.” “Well, you’ll give me back my dollar!”
snorted the Gifted Management. “Can’t be did,
boss,” retorted the coon sadly. “Ma wife’s got de
dollar!” The lady stayed.
* * * *
“Moana”: A few words about Carbine’s
youth in Maoriland, the land of his birth. Fdaled
in 1886, he was bought by Dan O’Brien at Auckland
as a- yearling for 625 guineas* and taken to Christ-
church. •In 1888 he started,- as a two-year-old, five
times, and got first past the judge on each occasion.
Four of thqse events were fun-at-Christchurch (Tat-
tersall’s Hopeful Stake's, Middle Park Stakes, Cham-
pagne Stakes and Challenge Stakes) and one at
Dunedin (Champagne Stakes). Tattersall’s Hopeful
Stakes, the great galloper’s first, race, was a five-
furlong event, which he won in lmin. s£sec. ; but the
other four were six-furlong sprints, the times vary-
ing from lmin. 15sec. to lmin. 19sec. So Carbine
was never beaten in his native land. As a two-year-
old he was inclined to be lazy and was very slug-
gish at the post, being badly left two or three times
at Christchurch. He improved in this respect as he
grew older, but he was never really nippy at the
start. He made up for this, however, when he once
got going.
According to recent statistics the electric
motor vehicle is making enormous progress in the
United States, and there are now approximately
37,000 of them in. use in Uncle Sam’s land. Of this
number 25,000 are passenger cars and the remainder
are used for the distribution of goods in various
cities. Chicago heads the list with 2850 electrically-
driven cars. New York is second with 2000, and
Cleveland third with 1800. The electric car is a
splendid machine for an electric city, where re-
charging can be done anywhere and everywhere. In
spite of the threats of Edison that famous storage
battery has not yet been put on the- market. Two
years ago the “Wizard” announced that he had solved
the problem of electric storage so that a car could
carry large reserves of “juice” under the seats and in
other nooks and crannies. He has launched a storage
battery, but it is not the feather-light affair of in-
finite storage capacity he promised. And till that
batterv does eventuate electric cars will be confined
entirely to cities where electricity is in such common
use that fresh supplies'of “juice” can always be ob-
tained at moderate prices. Curiously enough the
electric car is not a silent one. It makes more row
than a petrol-driven jigger, but it runs much more
smoothly, and there is said to be an almost entire
lack of vibration. The really noiseless and smoothest
running car is the one driven by steam. It is the
ideal of luxurious, easy travelling, but somehow it
has not caught on outside England and the U.S.A.
Many of the Yankee millionaires use only steam cars
for their personal use.
* * * *
Hitherto Yankee sportsmen have raided
the rest of the world, but this year is seeing a whole-
sale invasion of the United States. It started with
some runners from Oxford (Eng.) calling on Penn-
sylvania and running the Yankees off their legs.
Thomas Lipton is returning to the charge with a new
challenger for the America Cup, after a lapse of
several years. Another English polo team will at-
tempt to wipe out the defeat of the Hurlingham club
some months ago; an Australian tennis team will
harry the champions of California; and the name
of the goffers about to descend on Uncle Sam is
legion. On the other hand, an attempt will be made
by the U.S.A. to recapture the Harmsworth Trophy
for international motor-boat supremacy. For about
10 years the gaud remained in Britain; then, in
1897. Commodore E. .T. Sehroeder beat the best Eng-
lish boats with the wonderful flier Dixie. Two years
ago Mackay Edgar crossed the Atlantic and with
the Maple Leaf took the trophy back to England,
where it still is. A whole fleet of fast boats has
been specially built to do the trick, and after severe
elimination tests the best three will be sent to
Cowes, Isle of Wight, for the great race in August.
“Vulgarian” : I look for some guiding prin-
ciple to enable me to Behave Decently in
Good Society. I haven’t had much of it,
and am constantly guilty of what my brother-
in-law calls a bayteeze. I’m staying at his
house in Double Bay: The other day a
man calling there had to hand me a cup of
weak tea, and I took it sitting. I can’t
drink tea standing up. My sister said it
Looked 111-bred, and afterwards I heard my
brother-in-law calling me a Hog. So when
we were nibbling cakes in a caffay (I’ve got
that) yesterday afternoon, I sprang up in a
hurry to take the tray from the fellow who
was fetching it. My sister was nurple with
rage; she told me later on that mortification
was setting in ; and once again my brother-in-
law, called me by that unlovely name. Now,
jf I’was a hog when I sat down, how was I
' a hog when T: stood un? It seems to me
that this business of Good Breeding must
consist in being a Hog at the right time.


„ Usher’s
“Green Strjpe
•t(i'
lb
253
NS;
Sx
if
%
CTO-
f
1
I
I
4
A
V->
J"
V
1
Ir
I
'2^. —
Yv
il
A GOOD SEND-OFF


Many Choice
Presents
at
Flavelle’s
It is quite an easy matter to choose at
Flavelle’s —our stocks are so complete
and well assorted, and the prices are re-
markably low for such high-grade goods.
Everything that is new is here, and
many are epdqsive to us alone. We have
been acknowledged the leading jewellers
in the Commonwealth.
These are a few examples :
fd
Handsome Solid
Silver Vase, quite
plain, made especially
with weighted base.
Price £l/7/-
Smaller Size, quite
plain Solid Silver
Vase. Price £l.
Very Strong, Large,
Sterling Silver, plain
Specimen Vase,
fluted edge. Price
£l/1/6.
Handsome Solid -Silver
Table Centre
Piece, having large
Centre Vase and 3
vases branching from
sides. Price £4.
Dainty Sterling Silver Vase, shape of
Tulip. Price 12/-
Small Size Sterling Silver Vase, 10/-
Vfry Tall, Tapering Solid Silver Vase,
quite plain, extra weighted base. Price 24/-
Dainty Solid Silver Inkwell, plain, as
illustrated. Price 10/9.
The Latest Novelty. A Clock and Ink-
stand combined. In Solid Silver —the clock
having reliable jewelled movement.- This
makes quite an unique gift. Price £3/5/6.
Another . Novel Inkwell — which also may
be used as a Paper Weight^ —large size
Crystal Cube with plain
solid silver lid.
Price 26/-
Barge Size Solid Sil-
ver Hair Brush, ex
tra good bristles (as illus-
tration). Price £2/2/-
Ileavily Embossed, uncom-
mon Shape Sterling
Silver Hair Brush,
extra strong bristles.
Price £l/4/9.
Very Dainty Sterling
Silver Hair Brush,
with neat floral border.
Price £l/17/6.
Useful Size Sterling
Silver Hair Brush,
fdf
raised scroll design, plain centre for mono-
gram. Price 14/-
We pay prompt and careful attention
to all Mail Orders, and guarantee thor-
ough satisfaction.
MAIL YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Flavelle, Roberts 8
Sankey, Ltd.,
QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE?"
And at ROCKHAMPTON & LISMORE
SETTLERS desirous of ridding tliem-
IO selves of Labor Troubles should
certainly write
E. A. FARRINGTON,
19 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
for particulars of the “STANDARD
EARTH AUGER” and other Labor-
saving Appliances he is handling. A
postcard may save you many an ache.
Kriischen
/ Salts N
Now sold by Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, clarence Street, SYDNEY.
dfd
Texend
i BRACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort , Style
At first class shops,
wm
Prizes Value £4OOO in the
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 31, 1914.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £3OO. And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. C. Morrison,
Balmain,- Sydney, N.S.W., for the mffctest"' outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1914.
llesults of Drawing willbe advertised in this paper on November 5.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
111
m®.
&
gg
mm
ins
jas
i
S&
ass
aM
Si
go
m
m
- -T^
m
1
&
fl
•;\'.. v *
H
Hi
P
M.
.
B
iiSI
n
i
V;-i ;S',f
:?M
zM
%'«i'a
V\V
Is
i
i
*SS^
,R
fLOOK PRETTY?
Yes! But can you—
without a Pretty Skin.
Hunting, motoring, golf,
wjjads will all do
thei? part in reddening
and roughening your face.
Do your part with - - -
" Kaloderma ” Soap ....
" Kaloderma " Jelly, and
“ Kaloderma " Face Potder;
you may then snap your
fingers at wind & weather.
ii The Mysteries of Beauty’s Toilet—spell
Kaloderma
Obtainable at all the Leading Shops
F. Wolff s Sohn,
Perfume Distillers II
Fancy Soau Makers.
Karlsruhe. Germany
ft
: :
A
RAPI D
Mechanical Calculation
with insured accuracy and maximum speed
is obtainable only in the “Comptometer.”
Whether addition, subtraction, division or
multiplication you have your answer In
plain view with just the pressing of keys.
So light and compact that it may be
readily carried about as your work may
require. Saves time. Prevents errors
and gives entire freedom
from nervous and mental
strain. No toy, but is built
for real work.
ď
ADDS—SUBTRACTS —
MULTIPLIES —DIVIDES
in Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings.
We have prepared an interesting book entitled
“Rapid Mechanical Calculations,” which we will
gladly send to anyone free on request. '
FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.,
London, New York, Chicago, Toronto, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS.—Peacock Bros., 214-216 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dave Clinton, an actor of some repute,; in days
gone by, died at Adelaide on July 4, aged 84 years.
In the ’7o’s he was joint lessee with J. B. Steele and
T. F. Keogh of the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin. He
had himself played with such good people as Brooke,
Holt, Haskins, Creswick, Dampier, George Rignold,
Mrs. George Darrell and Mrs. Scott Siddons. After
going out of the theatrical business he set up as a
bookseller and stationer in S. Australia.
“A.R.”: Fritz Hart, new Director of the Marshall
Hall Conservatorium, gave the other day, at Miss Violet
Teague’s studio in Collins-street (Melb.), a short
rfisumO of his operetta “Pierrette,” followed by some
excerpts. It is to be presented in Sydney by the
Australian Opera League during the first week in
August, and is likely to be very well received. Both
music and plot are charming, vigorous and original.
The orchestration is cleverly worked out, and the
whole operetta runs smoothly. Between the two
acts is a longer interlude than'usual, consisting of a
finely-written nocturne, which serves to separate the
somewhat prosaic life of Pierrette’s aged uncle and
aunt from the wholly sentimental and poetic episode
of the loves of Pierrot and Pierrette.
“Queryble”: How comes it that Leon Caron’s young
daughter, Irma, got overlooked by the Firm when the
present Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co. was organ-
ised? The bright little lady, who is a musician with
a voice and a personality, must be familiar with all
the sprightly girl characters in the operas which her
dad used to conduct for J.C.W. Judged by her recent
one-night performance' of a Carmen item, at Melb.
Athemeum Hall (whereof The Bulletin spoke), Irma ,
Caron would have been an acquisition for one of the
two Gondolier girls. She is fitted by nature for any
of the parts in which little Flora Graupner cut a
dash in the long ago. But up to now Miss Caron’s
oifly chance has been a vaudeville engagement. She
does a turn on the Rickards circuit.
Edward McKeown, the immense tenor of the new
Gilbert and Sullivan Opera Co. now performing in
Melbourne, is the son of a Sydney parson. The Rev.
R. McKeown’s Birrellrstreet (Waverley) Church cele-
brated its jubilee on\ last Sunday. Another of his
sons has a tenor voice, but he uses it to talk busi-
ness to the clients of the Perpetual Trustee Co.
(Sydney) in preference' to pouring it forth in song
on the operatic stage.
From London: Mrs. Brough gets a boost from
T.P.’s as “the Mrs. Patrick Campbell of the Anti-
podes ; it is expected that the English public will
shortly have an opportunity of showing their appreci-
ation of her distinguished gifts.” A revival of “Mrs.
Tanqueray,” played as a present-day tragedy, has
brought out the pertinent objection that it betrays
its age in the absence of motors. Paula was horribly
bored in the country, whereas with a motor at com-
mand you can’t be bored.
“Ilaresfoot” : Allen. Doone opens in Melbourne with
“The Colleen Bawn.” 'First cast in that city (1861):
Hardress CrOgan, G. Fawcett; Kyrle Daly, T. Faw-
cett ; Myles-na-Coppaleeir, Stewart; Danny Mann,
Wheatleigh ; Father Tom, Milne ; Corrigan, Dunn ;
Eily O’Connor, Rosa Dunn; Annje Chute, Julia
Mathews. Wheatleigh brought the play from
America. Boucicault founded/it on a clumsy old
thing, called “Eily O’Connor,’* drawn from Gerald
Griffin’s “Collegians.”
From London: The first experiment with the serial
play—one act per week —has come to a close at the
Coliseum, and Oswald Stoll pronobnees it a success.
“Find the Woman,” the New Y6rk “third-degree”
melodrama in four acts, was the' piece tried, with
Violet Vanbrugh and Arthur BouChier in the leading
roles. Stoll says any strong play of this sort, “with
every act tightening the grip of the story,” is bound
to succeted quite as, well in serial form as whenMt
is performed right off the reel, lie is ndw going
to give musical' comedies and comic operas a chance
of achieving glory in, weekly spasms.
“Harrison O.”: Just-dead dramatist Sydney
Grundy was associated'as librettist with Teddy Solo-
mon, the clever Yid composer who once threatened
to rival Sullivan. Teddy’s chronic lack of monish
was responsible for some brilliant exploits. When a
new opera was wanted in a hurry for the Alhambra,
Solomon :Wired Grundy to lunch with him, as “we
play our new opera to Alhambra directors at three.”
A mystified Grundy arrived to remark that he did
not know they had an opera. ' “Never mind that,”
replied the composer. “You tell them sUity-V
Indians; stolen white-face; battle; arrival of Ameri-
can rescuers; burning at stake; spectacular ballet.'
It’ll be all right, and the couple-o’-hundred deposit
will be ours.” Solomon at the piano rattle'd off'a
“Grand March of the Sioux Indians,” a “Love Song
of the Pale White-Face,” and so on, and the direc-
tors were delighted; but as the only musically
educated member of the Board was absent they asked
the composer to run through the tunes again next
day. He did so, and everybody was disappointed,
the truth being that Solomon had forgotten what he
had improvised, and his second improvisations were
not up to the mark. However, true to his race, he
had taken the precaution at the first meeting to
“touch” the theatre people for £2OO on account of
fees.
“Dagopolis” : After .the limelight the bush ! That’s
ho'w it is with comic-opera star Andrew Higginson,
who runs a pub at Wangaratjta (Vic.), and vaudeville
comedian Chris Young, who has one at Trundle
(N.S.W.). Expert banjoist Will James, formerly' of
Rickards’s theatres, and his wife "(Malvena Moore,' the
top-boot dancer) . are in business at Parkes
*.(N;S.W.). Carl Prinz, who faced the .foot-
lights. with a troupe of German monkeys, is on a
Queensland farm ; and Fred Davies, who came to Aus-
tralia with Harry Rickards on his third visit, and
brought the first marionettes here, is a picture-show
proprietor at West Wyalong (N.S.W.).
“Bilroclc”: The record for the bloodiest film ever
exhibited was aimed at, if not achieved by, a Strand
(London) picture-show recently. The horror was
entitled “A Court Intrigue in the Reign of Henry
VIII.” It depicted various episodes leading up to
the downfall of Anne Boleyn. One saw her sentenced
to death. She was shown walking forth to be be-
headed. Followed a picture of the scaffold, with the
block, and the executioner testing the edge of his
axe with' his thumb. Anne, clad in a tight-fitting
black dress thoughtfully cut low at the neck, slowly
mounted the scaffold. She tucked her hair carefully
under her cap. Gently she knelt, and laid her fair
head upon the block. The executioner swung his
'axe. It severed the neck neatly three inches above
the shoulder-blades, and the head rolled down stage,
leaving the dismembered trunk —a false one, of
—in full view of the audience for some seconds.
And then, crowning horror, a thick dark liquid some-
thing like paint oozed from the gaping neck, and
trickled across the canvas. This masterpiece of san-
guinary art has been shown in Australia, but in a
bowdlerised form. Here the film ended, amidst the
curses of all true Realists, with Anne’s arrival on
the scaffold.
“0.K.” : No wonder that “The Gondoliers” is the
most popular of all Gilbert and Sullivan operas with
the ladies, blesstheirhearts! It contains more talk
of love and matrimony than any stage story I know,
not excepting “Romeo and Juliet.” Think of the
ditties, “When a merry maiden marries,” and “Ah,
me! you men will never understand that woman’s
heart goes with a woman’s hand.” Even the elderly
Duchess tells rib song of how she won her husband’s
affection and obedience. And .the tenor’s popular
ballad, “Take a Pair bf -Sparkling Eyes”! Its
lesson is flattering unction to the Sex’s soul. All
that a man wants in this world is a bright-eyed
girlie in a pretty little cottage. He lives to love
an<jl loves to live; life has nothing more to give.
grpws old at his ease, a,nd is a d.ainty bloke to
please"if he is not satisfied. Not a word about the
sparkling-eyed and dainty-fingeretted girl growing
old at the same time. Her attractions are perennial,
seemingly. She never drives her husband to work —-
or drink. He just stays in the cottage with no
ambition beyond living to love. Gilbert must have
been in a love-sick mood when he wrote “The Gon-
doliers,” though he was nearly 54 when it was pro-
duced. Perhaps he wrote it a year or two earlier, for
52, according to Balzac, is a man’s “most danger-
ous” age— i.e., the age when he reaches the limit
of his capacity for telling sentimental lies as
though he believed them-


G-
E
U
N
I-
S
E
T
vv\v'/ x\ '\\\\\A V M oi 1 1
im
- N.
rf/ib.Wfd^A
jn*
0C
< '
\^m
m
Ml'”
ST/i
et
fhe first 'Real Electric Cooking Set |
—and at a moderate price. ■
\
It is a compact, practical table cooking outfit.
For the moderate purse, the Uni=Set Stove with
Chafing Dish or any other single device is the start—
the other Uni=Set parts shown here may be purchased
separately from time to time, to complete the set.
In this new Uni=Set the conveniences of electric
cooking and the advantage of building up the set, is being
introduced into Australian States by us to help make
electric cooking in the homes easier, cleaner and quicker.
The Uni=Set will be one of the most popular set of
cookers yet in use. Send your order to the
Australian General Electric Company
217 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY; Cr. QUEEN S LITTLE COLLINS STREETS, MELBOURNE.
Agents
PERTH, W.A Chas. Atkins & Co. Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
BRISBANE, Q.— Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd., Edward Street.
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland,
Wellington and Christchurch.
G-
E
U
N
I-
S
E
T
THE- ONLY STEAM ENGINE
REALLY WORTH CONSIDERATION IS UNDOUBTEDLY
MARSHALL
(ALL BRITISH
BUILT).
WE are assuming you are an Engine Buyer and require THE BEST !
MARSHALL’S have been manufacturing the WORLD’S BEST STEAM ENGINES for over 60 years !
§
MARSHALL’S have always stood EASILY FIRST in PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTORS, OIL TRACTORS and VERTICAL BOILERS.
MARSHALL’S ENGINES have been awarded over 500 Gold and Silver
Medals.
MARSHALL’S are the recognised standard by which all other makers are
gauged—ALL OVER THE UNIVERSE.
Give us an idea of your requirements, and we quote per return post,
liberal.—
Our terms are exceptionally
Illustrated Catalogs FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
WHERE THE BEST ENGINES ARE SOLD (NOT KEPT IN STOCK).


Shipping.
Pm and Om BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON,
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. AH Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. k £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
ous ' Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO,, Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.acr, SvnNEV.
Hanking-. Public Companies, Sc.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: II MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALE.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3i% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Ajrencics.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Iion. RORERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; lion. A J
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 251 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE -WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING RUS I NESS.
THE,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SITRSCRIRED
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .
RESERVE FUND
Companies Act.)
. . £2,000,000
.. £1,198,534
. . £1,195,446
£35,000
HEAD OFFICE —George r.t: d King Streets, Svdnev.
LONDON OFFICE —2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the'
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Rankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0’ 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit. Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189 3 specially protected.
Directors—Jas. >* Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; F
Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. ; Hon G W
Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches— London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The (olonial mutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liabilitv; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South' Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. BOSS MILLER, Resident Secretan
Shipping;.
IVT ORDDEUTSCHER ,
-i-l IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS.
To COLOMBO, SUEZ. NAPLES, .GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON (for London), ANTWERP & BREMEN.
Twin-Screw Steame'
e\*s. t
\ :
SEYDLITZ .
BOON
CNEISENAU
SCHARNHORST
ZIETEN .. .
FRIEDRICH CROSSE
Bremen
♦GROSSER KURFURST
♦ZEPPELIN ..
FRIEDRICH PER CROSSE
Fori?.
'Sydney,
11 a.m.
♦Accelerated Service.
*o £
<D jf;
C <
u _ .
3:5-
o c
£55
largest steamers visiting Australia via Suez Canal.
All steamers with Wireless Telegraphy and Laundry,
first- and Second-Class Cabins installed with Electric
fans. For full particulars and illustrated pamphlets
a Pl>ly to LOHMANN & CO., 5 Bridge Street.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
♦Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers 6top 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fd
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
RUM IC, 12,500 tons, about AUG. 15.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about SEPT. 5.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, about SEPT. 26.
‘Largest vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 .3 0
London . . 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . ..25 5 0
Melbourne .. .. .. . . 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting:) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)..
' NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sy.dney July 25.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 29.
Leaves Sydney August 1.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne August 5.
Leaves Sydney August 8.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 25.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney August 1.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
WINTER TOURS
fd
fd
fď
TO THE, NEW HEBRIDES
via Lord Howe &. NorfolK Islands.
NEW STEAMER—“MARSINA,” Sept. 1.
(Personally conducted.)
A Voyage Replete with Novel Sights,
Beautiful Scenery and Curious People.
One of the longest, most enjoyable and
inexpensive Island Holiday Trips ever
devised.
53 DAYS* TOUR FOR £.25.
Send for our special Leaflet describing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney. William Street,
Melbourne. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450,000
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Itichard Binnie, Esq.
The H6n. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
The Lion. James T. Walker
The lion. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Tlio Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS': Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq
Head Office-Georjge St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedie St , E C
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents an>l Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THIiOTTOHniTT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
Georoe J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
lion. IT. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: G-eorg-e Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Birclxin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
|ank of |)mu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .... .. . . .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital .. ■.. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiii. Great Hri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Brice 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots
Classed 100 Al at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
SONOMA ..
VENTURA
Aug. 1 j Sept. 26 I Nov. 21 I Jan. 16
Aug-. 29 Oct. 24 Dec. 19 i Feb. 13
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel- 228 a Apply—44 pitt STREET, SYDNEY.
“Y HE North
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: — s
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER
NAMBUCOA MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination tickets are issued in conjunction with
the. N. S WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE’
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers’'
there connecting with one of the Company’s im-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa. P
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d.; second-class railand steeraire
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
.
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
I Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established, 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Aug. 1 and Aug. 29.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WARILDA (8000 tons),
July 25 and August 22.
Wireless Telegraphy.
VVOLLOWRA, Aug. 1.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with eabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (Avonmouth).
T.S.S. ARGYLLSHIRE .
12,500 Tons. CAPTAIN CHICKEN.
BRISBANE . . about AUGUST 12, 1914.
SYDNEY .. „ AUGUST 18, 1914.
MELBOURNE . . „ AUGUST 22, 1914.
ADELAIDE .. „ AUGUST 25, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON—
Saloon, £4O to £45. Third-class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-class, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of large two-
berth and family cabins on the upper deck amidships,
including Lounge and Smoke Rooms. Well-lighted
and ventilated Cabins and spacious Decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage. Electric Light
throughout. Return- and round-trip tickets issued
via Cape and (or) Suez route. Prepaid passages
arranged. Fitted with Wireless.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to—
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Sydney.
TURNBULL, MARTIN & CO., Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
• H. JONES & CO., LTD.,' Hobart.
Hvddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
"Ulimaroa,”
"Riverina,”
‘Westralia,
‘Wimmera,
‘Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH it ALL NEW ZEALAND TOUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITEi,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of call, First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Cov.’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotels. <Sp.
Ly
8* »
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoiia-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance ot air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
f
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Haven
131 ac k, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brow n,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11
Directions with every
Dottle
MADAME LEIGH
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
FOR A FAIR DINKUM GO
y ... TRY THE ... 4
ME-ZOH
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent;
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
ď
JM-Sustralta
Open
for all
HEAD OFFICE j SYDNEfr
General Banking Business
CITIES and TdWNS/of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn oA foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any partoij the woild. Bills negotiated or forward ed for Collection. Banking and
Exchange Business of every description within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad;
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made!against approved securities-.
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres aiid AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO (2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at .>O/
per annum «4,
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. \ DENISON MILLER, Governoi
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy ami Delightful Climate, 'Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, stfil in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, tho
prospective settler and to the honest worlier.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
■ T. C. TItOKDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 11G Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
Watch Bracelets
are the Rage.
We have sold thousands of watche
and the demands grow daily.
WHY?
Every Watch we sell is guaranteed fo
15 years.
Every Watch is tested before deliven
mltahmic
t£122«,06
Absolutely Reliable Gold Lever, Fully Jewelled Watch,
with Special Expanding’ Gold Bracelet, as illustrated,
Choicely Cased, £6/6/-
Every Watch is KNOWN as reliable and accurate, or thrown out of our Stock.
Prices, too, are low-winded, the lowest in Australia for High-grade Goods.
We carry an immense range of designs in Gold and Platinum, both plain and set with jewels.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS. Ltd.,
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
THE SATISFACTION WHICH A “PLUM” GIVES.
V 6
You have really no idea what it is unless you have shaved with a
“PLUM” RAZOR.
There is such a difference in the “Plum”—-the blade has always a
keen edge that cuts so easily. The good temper of the “Plum” Razor
blade keeps your good temper uppermost. Every morning you will find
the “Plum” ready for a comfortable shave. ;
Prove it Yourself—Send for a “Plum” Razor To-Day -
10/6 Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITH.EN
654- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
f
Let Us Send
you a copy of our Catalog. It
illustrates the very latest styles in
Abbey Shoes —the footwear worn
extensively by well-dressed men.
Send to-day for a copy.
The illustration shows a Special
Golf Shoe, in Choice Tan Willow
Calf, 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
2*22 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
2
/
Ya
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS*
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y-m. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardle.v on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
CRANES and PULLEY BLOCKS
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris (EL Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment.
■ W*-'-
1&2
w:3
J 4
.
iejltl
’—
m
>..
*1 h© Quality and Prices are Right. Send us your Inquiries*
Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and Blocks sent on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES We will send a Pulley Block on approval at our own expense to any user.
HAES &
RS LTD.,
163 Clarence Street,


.':
m
SOLID LEATHER
HUNTING KIT BAGS.
The best finish, exceptionally roomy, and strongly made;
side handles, leather corners, wide straps, exactly as illustrated.
20
60/-
22
66/-
24
72/-
26 inches.
78/- each.
FINNEY’S,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is Richer than Meats and contains the
same amount of Fat.—lt is even better
than fresb fish because it is cooKed in tbe
can, therefore none of the goodness can
escape. Always insist on “Horseshoe.”
It’s DELICIOUSLY FRESH
IN
BANANA LAND
The biggest thing on local record in the
way of land resumptions is being prepared
in the ’Department. At some unspecified
time in the future—it should be within this
year—over 1,000,000 acres of country south
of Charters Towers will be made available
for grazing farms. It is cattle country, and
it is reckoned that a 60,000-acre block will
suffice for 3000 head and their young
progeny.
“Alamon”: In the Northern Territory,
where the deadly climate crouches for its
prey, the birth-rate last year was 32, and
though the deaths numbered 48, it must be
remembered that females, of all ages, num-
bered less than GOO, and as the deaths among
females numbered four, they put up a very
creditable show for a place suitable only
for colored labor, and unfit for white in-
habitants. Give us the railway, the straight
line, not a road that might have been made
by a drunk; let'the Dutchman find a ready
market for his farm produce, give the Dane
and the German and the Swede a chance to
prove their mettle, and you will soon find
out whether the N.T. is fit for white folks
or not. I could tell you now, but as I am
merely a woman living in the Territory I
naturally couldn’t be expected to impress
anybody, especially when maps are so cheap
and the climate is painted in yellow so that
any fool can see it.
Mount Morgan people spend all their
spare time seeing one another off. In the
days when the late Walter Russell Hall was
the great man, nobody ever left Morgan
except in front of a mourning coach. Now-
adays there are big changes every 24 hours.
Holyoake Wood, who had been secretary
of the. co. from the beginning of things, was
given a passage lately. Now R. W. Belfield,
who succeeded him, is to take three months’
leave prior to retirement. The Halls and
the others wanted to make things comfort-
able for everybody (themselves, of course,
included), and they never worried about
such things as the price of shares. To-day
the price of shares is nearly everything:
and the co.’s rules are chopped about to suit
the London and other Stock Exchanges.
Lest there should be any kicking over the
traces, the co.’s meetings are still held' at
Rockhampton, and proceedings begin with
an announcement by the chairman: “I beg
to state that I hold proxies for (say) 500,000
shares.” After that all is expected to be
peace—-and generally is.
I
“H. 5.0.” : It happened quite a long time
ago in the Maranoa country (Q.), and
since .most of the people in the joke are
dead, or in gaol for bigamy, there is no
harm in mentioning it. On Saturday night
the annual race week had wound up fast
and furiously, and about 4 a.m. on Sunday
a bright idea struck Sandy Ross. He and
a couple of friends went round the empty
bedrooms (no one went to bed in race
week), and collected all available utensils.
These were carried in relays to the foot
of the tall flagstaff which was the pride of
the Squatters’ Arms, and the halyards having
been passed through the handles, the lot
were hoisted to tfie truck. Then Ross
climbed half-way up‘ and made the lines
fast, cutting away the loose ends. When
early Mass was about due, devout Catholics,
hurrying to church past the Squatters’
Arms, were shocked at the clanking mon-
strosity which swayed gently in the breeze.
The staff had to be passed unless the con-
gregation felt like, climbing a barb-wire
fence. The lady Catholics, who were in
great force, were embarrassed. When
Father O’Smith arrived on the scene all
the population of the township, divided be-
tween blushes and ribaldry, were ringed
about the flagstaff. The Father stood at
the foot of the staff, irresolute. Just then
a jug detached itself from the handle and
fell to earth, barely missing the cleric, who,
speechless no longer, rushed into the hotel
in search of the proprietor. A minute later
that individual appeared as if shot from a
gun, dragging by the collar the yardman,
a wretched immigrant. Urged by his em-
ployer, the miserable alien shinned up the
pole. Arrived at the cross-trees, where the
halyards were tied, he drew a tomahawk
from his vest pocket and cut the lines. With
one great swish the accumulated crockery
fell on the unhappy importation and bore
him to the ground, where he lay hidden in
a heap ;or shard. Then the elect went
on to Mass, while the unregenerate repaired
to the Squatters’ Arms. The immigrant
went to the hospital.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 18, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
Now that William Macgregor is out of
blush-reach I can say that he took a wider
and more human interest in Queensland af-
fairs than any other representative of
royalty hereabouts, save (possibly) one. The
exception was Henry Wylie Norman, the
tall, spare man who used to take his lonely
walk along Queen-street, nodding to the shop-
keepers and others of his subjects, from 20
to 25 years ago.
There were two weddings of interest this
we ; ek. One bride was fair-haired Daisy
Clifton, only daughter of that popular
hostess, Mrs. Ralph _ Clifton. Her partner
to the contract, or vis-a-vis to the problem,
was Herbert Montefiore, of Jondaryan. The
other knot-tying bound xlmy Papi and Edwin
THE QUESTION PERTINENT.
HR: “If you refuse me I shall never love another woman.”
SHE: “And if I accept does it still hold good?”
Minnett to cherish each other and pay the
rent regularly. The lady is a daughter of
Mi*. Papi, a school-teacher and a clever
wielder of the paint brush. The brand
new son-in-law is a bank manager at Moree.
A bank manager is a handy article to have
for a son-in-law. Sometimes lie has an over-
draft concealed about him. One old-time
Australian bank manager is said to have
tried to build a city, and was finally eaten
by cannibals. But that was in the strenuous
and thrilling days.
The Art Society’s Exhibition has been
open for business all the week. On Tuesday
Mrs. David Lahey gave an afternoon tea
there, and the Brisbane Women’s Club fed
the lions and other visitors on Friday after-
noon. On Thursday night Mrs. H. S. F.
Moran and Miss Moffatt arranged a musical
evening, fand on Friday night the students’
annual jjllo occurred. The most noteworthy
event at this last was Daisy Jerome’s rag-
dancing.
The matrons of Yeronga gave a ball on
Friday night, and, at time of writing, there
isn’t an entry in the complaint book. The
hall was dressed with peach blossoms and
Chinese lanterns, while the supper tables
had sweet peas and other indigestibles for
decoration.
James Chapman, head of Messrs. Chap-
man and Co., entertained a big party of men
folk at the Australian Hotel on Friday morn-
ing, in honor of the 50th anniversary of his
landing in Queensland. There were a lot
of speeches—so many, in fact, that each
orator was limited to a three-minutes’ sprint.
Nobody expressed regret at the landing of
Mr. Chapman. On the contrary, the general
expression of opinion was that it would be
to his credit if he landed twice a week and
celebrated the occasions on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Saturdays. Sunday could
still remain the day of rest, and the odd day
might be filled in at work or at the races.
Hairy Lauder was at the Scotch dinner
last Saturday, and whether the tobacco-in-
fested air gave him a headache, or whether
the haggis was burnt, I know not. How-
ever, he was scalded by something, for when,
later on at the theatre, a little mild chaff
came his way, he stopped his patter, reversed
his leg whiskers, and dwelt at length on the
injustice. He said he had never before been
treated that way in Australia. Considering
all things, including Henry and Henry’s
prices, Australia has never been treated that
way, either.
The Ross Munros, who have been in
Britain for nearly a year, are to return to
Brisbane at the end of this month. Mrs.
Munro, who is one of our best-liked matrons,
recently exchanged confidences with George
V. and Mary, his uncompromising spouse.
Peter Dawson gave two concerts here this
week, and bellowdrama has been with us for
the space of seven days. On Monday “The
Beggar Girl” was married; on Thursday “A
Girl’s Temptation” met with unanimous
encouragement from an enlightened and
debonair audience; and to-night enthusiasm
is expected to prevail when another young
thing takes the Wrong Turning.
Trusting this finds you well, as it leaves
me. the same, which is an old British salu-
tation employed by the less educated classes.
J. Mackenzie Lees, one of Brisbane’s most
eligible bachelors (if he doesn’t dawdle any
longer), left last week by the Marathon for
London. At home he is general manager of
the Bank of North Queensland ; and he and
Robert Love, of the London office, swap
places for 12 months.
I am,
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Lagani-Namo”: On a little atoll near
New Guinea, the cannibals of our schooner
went prospecting around for shell fish. Pre-
sently the air was ripped with yells, and!
we raced to the far end to see what was the-
matter. With sticks and stones and wild!
excitement that crowd was making sausage-
meat of big green snakes. Every hole om
that side of the atoll was occupied by the'
vipers. There must have been thousands of:
them. And they were the only living thing,
that I’ve seen those Purari niggers refuse
to eat. Amongst the delicacies I’ve seen
them trying to turn into tucker are, brown
paper, an old felt hat, soap, white lead,,
putty and pieces of cowhide.
“Q.R.S.”: The natives of Papua, though
split up into many different tribes, possess-
ing languages and customs quite distinct
from one another, have one or two marked 1
characteristics in common. One of the
most noticeable of these is their total lack
of anything approaching a sense of gratitude.
Some weeks ago, during a recruiting trip
west of Port Moresby, circumstances forced
me to camp for a few days in a native
village. Before I had been there an hour
the chief approached me with a request for
medicine, as one of his favorite wives was
dying of dysentery, and the charms of the
local sorcerer had proved ineffectual. Caus-
ing the lady to be isolated in a hut some dis-
tance from the village, I tended her care-
fully for the best part of three days and
nights. At the end of that time she was
well on the way to recovery, and I took my
departure. Half a mile along the track I
was overtaken by my late patient’s august
husband. Anxious to thank me for my
trouble? Not he. The old brute stood in
the middle of the track and vociferously de-
manded 10 sticks of tobacco as payment
for the loan of his wife! I paid him with
one stick —but it was not made of tobacco.
The Flying Mail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crackle of the engine,
The moan of wire and plane,
Comes to them through the welter
Of driving clouds and rain ;
The Flying Mail men dreamed of
Is rushing past o’erhead.
It heeds not lofty mountain
Nor roaring river-bed.
A moment since men saw it,
A speck, ten miles away—
And now they watch it fading,
Black, in the wintry grey.
The.. Flying Mail! Long years since,
Five horses spun its wheels—
The fastest things that travelled
Were those five horses’ heels.
Then Mulga Bill was driver —
He sometimes nodded —so !
To humble folk, who gladly
Made room to let him go
On his swift way, careering,
From glow of dawn to dark—
At midnight, when they heard him,
The station dogs would bark.
Oh! Mulga Bill, the driver!
He scattered miles like chaff —
There were no locomotives,
There was no telegraph.
From township unto township
To cities far he sped
O’er mountain pass and plainland,
And flooded river-bed.
Here he would pause for horses,
Or there, with friendly hail,
Through hamlets where he paused not
He drove the Flying Mail.
The coach roads were deserted;
On ways of shining steel
The fast train split the distance
With fire and flying wheel.
Hoarse whistles in the darkness!
Great engines throbbing past!
The people spoke so proudly,
\ “The Flying. Mail at last!”
And Mulga Bill, grown rheumy,
Would wave a hand to him.
The god within the engine
Who drove with visage grim.
For him no cheery halting
At inns to change his teams —
The flogging steam, so eager,
Allowed no time for dreams.
And as he topped the ranges
At night, on throbbing rail,
The station children whispered,
“There goes the Flying Mail.”
And sometimes from her furnace,
They’d see a smoky glare
Flame skyward, while her whistle
Awoke the midnight air.
The fast express is distanced ;
The god that drives can see,
In dizzy flight above him.
A greater god than he.
And this new god who thunders
Across the skies, looks down
On miles of hills and valleys,
On river-bed and town.
If Mulga Bill could see him
He’d wave his hand and hail;
For Mulga Bill and Guillaux
Both drove the Flying Mail.
n.s.w.
WILL LAWSON.


“ These camels,” they told Sandy,
“ Can go for days and days
Without a drop of water.”
He heard without amaze.
“That’s nothin’; so can I, mon,”
He said, “or any chump,
But not without me whisky
Or 1 would get th’ hump
The same as that pore beastie.
But as we’ve made a stop
An’ I’ve me wee flask wi’ me,
Suppose ye try a drop ? ”
fit
"i
J
m
tei*
/j«ru
•3>t
i
pro
3ILVCR BCLT


Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
oan Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts- of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
ioirned attendants meet all steamers and
trains. travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the mosL satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rojms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
ƒd
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT '
fd
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
For ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole IVJiol sale Agents,
_j27. York Street, Sydney.
3
Dj You Like to Draw ?
That’s all we want to know.
If you are anxious to develop
your talent for rketching so
you can make money, send
us a copy of this sketch, and
let us explain.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF SKETCHING,
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
It is as Beautiful as it is
Comfortable! The World-
famous
MOSGIEL
RUG
The Choice of Royalty and the
Favorite of the Experienced
Traveller.
Sold at all th 3
Best Shops. [4
Friend— PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Stiikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents; Talbots, 206 George Street;
a 7 jJ as “ ln Ston Soul. Sold by all Chemists
* nd ?£ : °r es ’ or P° sted fl 'om J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. [6d, extra.
\\
IPO
"'itmiii
CT The most expensive
item in conned inn with
paint-work is the labour.
•j It pays better to paint
once with the best paint,
than several times with
inferior paint.
AT Please note the only
paint like Ripolin i>
Ripolin ; do not be put
off with a substitute.
Rote the name, Ripolin,
that is the paint that
does not require vatnish
and goes farther, lasts
longer, and gives better
results than any other
paint.
RIPOLIN, ltd.,
35, Minories,
London, England,
AGENTS FOR
PA I NT
Agents: B. A. CORMACK,
Moorfoot Buildings,
6 Parker Street. Sydney.
METAL
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens !
LfHOIHSV *1 *'M> limU
rmrrm
s.nL’htf»
•srr:
3E
•fiiHillU
c
. to
rrlS'/Ji.iTsCS
? 51 5 I
= m
s *r
t!
e! 5 n»tV‘
t ti'ili
» Sx;
Phosferine
Tliis is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—ja proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Ansepiia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a huff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
fd
IN Bostock shoes, the feet always .feel beautifully
1 light and comfortable; and the wearer is ready
for a garden party or any-smart function. So
perfect are their fitting properties, that the shoes-
positively feel as though they have been made
specially. Every time they are worn the wearer
experiences a sense of satisfaction, wonderfully like
that enjoyed in a smart Parisian gown; and this
feeling 13 intensified by knowing .that the shoes are
exclusive in style and exquisitely finished.
Bostocks are the cream of imported shoes. Special
shipments have recently arrived at the leading stores,
and ladies should call before the choicest styles
sold.
are
805
A
Style 580
lousiness Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
fd
Send to-day
26
AMIGO
'"PILES
WHY SUFFER?
GET RELIEF.
“SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
An unfailing remedy
for Itehiii'j, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES.
IT r-TTRES GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
tjS
Ih
urn
Carnation
TALCUM
POWDER
Don’t Throw
Away Your
> Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
fdfd
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
lousiness Announcements.
y
In the'
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be setn,
when you use
Calvert’s)
iToofh fowder
and of course, the same
thorough antisept:c cleansing
is just as necessary
v again at night.
Sol i by local Chemists and S/ot e<.
Made by
, F C. CALVERT & CO.,
MANCHES ER,
Eng.
fd
THE WORLD’S BEST
Calculating Machine,
Thg“Triumphator”
Novel and easier way of setting the figures
which remain visible in special show-holes’
above the setting levers.
Carrying over tens device in MULTIPLIER
and QUOTIENT, as well as in PRODUCT
show-holes.
Registers Multiplier and Quotient correctly
in large white figures.
Illustrated descriptive Catalogue on
tion to the Agents;—
a. p. greenfield: g eo. ltd.,
189 George Street, Brisbane.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
frame end address must appear on MSS. fr'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volute-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
“Pick” : One reason why the rivers which
you speak of have dried up so badly since 1886 is
that you have grown 28 years older, and the thing
that looked like a whale to a child aged eight is
only a prawn to a man aged 36. This writer went
back, four years ago, to look at the town which he
left at the age of eight. And the Bull King,
which had been bigger than Centennial Park, Syd-
ney, was a scraggy triangle only half a jump across,
and would be dear at twopence Jarrah Jerker:
Story may be all right. If it isn’t, and we pub-
lished it, we should probably go to gaol, and we
don’t like gaol in winter T.F.G.: “Grandfather’s
Homestead” came within an ace or so of taking a
tiick....Ben Sun: “Magee” too unequal. .. .Nym:
Sorry “Spots” is so dislocated... .Joseph L.: Thin
stuff, poured out clumsily R.N.W.: Ask John
Sandes, D.T. office, Sydney... .Mrs. F. O.: “Emi-
grant” makes a capital start, and then falls
dead... .Bellerive: Of the last batch we wept most
over this one—it must be dreadful to be drowned
in such Arctic weather:—
THE GAOLBIRD.
Down by the Yarra he sat,
Thinking of day’s gone By,
Of his far off home across the foam,
Under old england’s sky.
He once held a position in life,
Till charged with a defaulter’s crime;
He was released from gaol, wasted and pale,
Sadly wrecked in his manhood prime.
He crouched upon the treacherous brink,
A splash in the Yarra did sound,
His troubles were o’er for evermore.
The unfortunate sinner was drowned!
....Gratis: 1 hanks for cutting, but we have had
so much about that eccentric bart. that readers are
wearying of him. Even a bart. can be overdone. .. .
1.1.: When and where did Judge Real (Q.) describe
a Socialist as “a fellow who would cut your throat
as soon as look at you” ? W.C.P.: Don’t remem-
Pf, r Nothing but stale matter in last
lot. . . .K.H.J.: Try it on Good Words, or lay it
reverently on that publication's tombstone. .. .Two
Seas: Bell, this piper would sooper take the de-
scription of the surveyor than that of the write-up
man N.S.W.: Letter sent on to cheer him up
Noumea: What’s the matter with the postmark on
the envelope, anyhow? Pickhandle: Millen threat-
ens to improve things for the rifle clubs. Why
not write to him direct? Tulkeroo: A rattling
start and a futile finish Calulu: Uoth as con-
ventional as corned beef and cabbage Sarto:
►Swagman * is fined five bob for breaking fevery rule
of the Versesmiths’ Union. .. .Leneitz: Some fine
phrases in it; but. what’s it all about The
Undertaker: Ashes to ashes, dust to dust....B. Lal-
loway: A poor lot. You reach high-water mark in
this:—
We’re not allowed to wear slit skirts,
Silk hose or low-necks to blouses;
Yet men can go about in shirts,
Clothe their.pether limbs in trousers.
Yes, they caiji.dd just anything,
The brutes, the hypocrites, the wowsers !
... . A.H.G.N.: Don’t remember “Linger-’n’-Die” com-
ing along before. If the man who turned it down
then said he did it because it was “too local,” it was
his day for being polite. .. .A.L.: It may be genius
or it may be madness or it may be plain drivel.
Anyhow there is something unusual about it, and for
being unusual we offer you our best wishes. The
• poem now starts, and there will be silence in Heaven
for the space of half an hour:—
A PARSON IN PARLIAMENT.
By a Distracted M.P. (common garden variety).
111 go to him and say to him, with compliments iron-
ical
(Sing “Hey to you—good day to you”—and that’s
what I shall say) ;
“Your style is much too sanctified, your cut is too
canonical”
(Sing “Bah to you—ha ! ha! to you”—and that’s
<( what I shall say).
‘I was the beau ideal of The Member wn poetical,
A man whose' knowledge of The Game is praised as
Alphabetical;
And now you’ve come to cut me out with your pulpit
guff emetical”—
Sing “Booh to you—pooh, pooh to you”—and
that s what I shall say.
Sing “Hey to you, good day to you”-
Sing “Bah to you, ha ! ha! to you”—
Sing “Booh to you, pooh, pooh”—
And that’s what I shall say.
I 11 tell him that unless he will consent to be more
locular, ,
(Sing “Hey to you—good day to you”—and that’s
what I shall say) ;
lo cut his lanky hair and stick an eyeglass in his
ocular
(Sing “Bah to you—ha! ha! to you”—and that’s
what I shall say) ;
To stuff his learned speeches full of quibble and of
quiddity,
To come down off his perch and shed his feathers
with avidity,
He d better scoot back to The Church with lightning-
like rapidity.
Sing “Hey to you, good day to you”—
Sing “Bah to you, ha! ha! to you”—
Sing “Booh to you, pooh, pooh”'—
And that’s what I shall say.
’’ ’ • H ,y y, our brief par. about union matters the
word crafts appears 18 times and “industrial” 14
times. Why should a sub-editor, who i* easily worth
a week, spend his time patching youi* half-
crown item simply because you don’t take the trouble
to have more than two words in your vocabulary?
....Indy: She’s not sufficiently unlike other wiid-
iady vote collectors who have been in The Buli.e-
-fBvHna«riad/''' ’ JR ’ Copics of the Worker
(Sydney) from now till shearing is over, and you
will find the information you desire Press Agent
London Entertainments Syndicate: Information
that Miss Ellen ferry and her manager gnawed a
bone or two at the expense of “Lord Liverpool,
Governor of Maonland, and Lady Liverpool,” humbly
appreciated. Have you a framed photograph of the
feed or an autographed ham knuckle? Florence
■V : i j ; , J es „ on , Yel!ow p np Carson, entitled “Facing
the Odds, refused with pleasure. Now, if vou had
made it “Facing the Camera,” its natural truth
would have made it irresistible Plugelius: Neither
twT 6 JY'H 0111 Can,t fl “d out anything
ol that tree. J H. Maiden, in his “Forest Flora of
New South Wales. drawing attention to the giant
trees of Australia, gives the following recorded
measurements of giant messmates, the height men-
tioned being to the top of the trees, not the bole-
Mt. Monda, height 307 ft„ girth 6ft. from the
ground. 22ft. Bin. Mt. Baw Baw, height 326 ft., girth
303 ft HrD, 6 irf’ 25f A', 7in - Narbethong, height
rfOJtt., girth 6ft. from the ground, 25ft. 7in It
would be difficult to definitely state the eon-
tents of the particular tree referred to, because
the girth at its upper extremity as well as at Ps
base is required. “Hopper’s” timber rule is one-
quarter the mean girth in inches squared, multiplied
by the length of the log in feet and divided by 12
equals the superficial contents. If the tree at Mt’
Monda contained a bole of 200 ft. and a girth of 16ft"
at its top extremity, the superficial contents of tim-
ber by Hoppers rule would be 56,066 ft Ron-er:
Toil are so very indefinite that we suspect you of
being a member of the Hypothetical Union or the
bon-Comnnttal League of Side-Steppers. If you have
any information or lie or libel or curse or slander to
impart, please dash the thing down in plain lan-
guage. Use bullock-driverese language if you like
but say something. J


In Dull Weather Use
Austral Standard Sun Plates
YOUR camera may be perfectly fitted as regards
the shutter and lens, but these are of little
avail —especially in dull weather —unless fast
plates are used.
For work requiring short exposure the Austral Standard
“ Sun” Plate excels in combining quality and speed.
Leading photographers everywhere say “Sun” Plates
are the quickest made.
Made in Australia, therefore perfectly fresh. Try them.
Obtainable at all Kodak dealers, or direct from us.
f m ■ r
■*£
—' • '.'
V»* v
*? . * ■-■'ii;
i.
t jt
, il •'*«
. *7
t. ■
«? Wjf
;... J’i iyy
»■ *
I
m
: : * >
tow
r~’rW,f
UPf
§£ asH*
fd
(Australasia)
LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY : 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 340 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. : 76 Stuart Street.
fd
A SURE MOUSTACHE-GROWER!
-If you want to develop your moustache and .improve your appearance
use: capillarine.
This splendid preparation always gives good results. No matter how poor
or tfjin the hair growth may be, Capillarine will develop the growth in a
most wonderful way.
30 vears on the market has proved its merit.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY —10/6 Jar, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &
AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
¥« t • , ■ *;
'£r * : ■- '
& ■-
- -Vv .
• ■?,
S-. 'fi-
fe - !
'V . . -*?*&■
CARUSO
and his double!
It’s just the same voice, you wouldn’t
know the instrument from the tenor him-
self if you didn’t see it. This lovely
“His Master’s Voice”
Gramophone
is an orchestra, band, piano, violin, a
whole opera house and a concert hall.
Other models from £5
12s. Gd. to £6O.
Ask the nearest accred-
ited dealer, or Avrite to
us for Instrument Cata-
logue, Record Lists and
name of nearest supplier.
zxg
It is the elegant Gramola
No. 2, in figured Mahog-
any, or Oak. A wonder-
ful instrument, that re-
produces the human voice
with absolute fidelity.
PRICE
£5O.
SOLE CONCESSIONAIRES FOR
The GRAMOPHONE CO. Ltd.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
aster* voice
Li_l
X
in
3
i|
oi
n'V
1
10343
Substantial
SAVINGS
thereby effected
on
Jewelry, Silverplate, Watches, etc
New Illustrated Catalog now ready; a copy mailed to you on request.
We pay the full postage to any address in Australia,
fdfd


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING. AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.36.
JI VOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BETH TATE, the Californian Girl. DUSTY RHODES.
THE GILLS. GERTRUDE GEBEST. EUGENE
DAMOND. JOSH DIXON. THE REXOS. WARREN
& ST. LEON. Coming Monday next f TOM KELLY,
“That Irishman.” JEROME; & CARSON, Eccentric
Novelty Duo. Box Plan at Theatre dud' Nicholson’s.
T I VO LI THEATRE, MELISOURNE.
ADA REEVE
ADA REEYE
ADA REEVE
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
Box Plan at Glen’s. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 17-.
"J* IV O 1.1 TIIEA T K E, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FOUR VAGABONDS.
WELCH k CARBASSE.
W. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
BARONESS D’ASTRELL.
VIVIEN TALLEUR k FRED READE.
ECLAIR BROS.—DEXTER—AL ROVER.
MONAHAN k SHEEHAN.
JIVOU THEA T RE, 1* E R T H.
THE ELLIOTT SAVONAS,
MORLEY & BATES. LEE &,LIONEL.
ED. E. FORDE, the Australian Sundowner.
DOREEN DALE. THE CREIGHTONS.
SIX CAMERONS. GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. LAZERN.
HENNESSY & MARTELL.
SALINGER & HAMILTON.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. No Extra Fees.
P ACL DUPAUXT CONCERTS.
PAUL DUFAULT CONCERTS.
ONLY TWO MORE CONCERTS.
ONLY TWO MORE CONCERTS.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
THURSDAY . . . . JULY 23.
SATURDAY . . . . JULY 25.
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
The Greatest Tenor That Has Ever Visited the
Southern Hemisphere.
Assisting Artists:
PAULTNE BINDLEY Soprano.
ERNEST TOY Violinist.
HAROLD SMITH Pianist.
Prices: 5/- (res.), 3/-, 2/- and 1/- at Paling’s.
Direction FREDERIC SHIPMAN.
UEB MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 ■ Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
A GRAND MATINEE
IN HONOR OF
MISS EljLiEjN JERRY
by the Members of
THE ACTORS’ ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA,
by kind permission of Joseph Blascheck, Esq.,
in which
the Whole of the Theatrical Profession at present in
Sydney (by kind permission of the respective manage-
ments) are to take part.
To be held on
TUESDAY, JULY 28.
when the MOST MAGNIFICENT PROGRAMME
EVER SUBMITTED TO AN AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
WILL BE PRESENTED,
including
“THE TRIAL SCENE” from “THE MERCHANT OF
VENICE.”
MISS ELLEN TERRY AS PORTIA.
Reserved D.C. and Stalls, 10/6. Unreserved Seats, 5/-
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
Hon. Stage Director, Mr. Walter Bentley.
Hon. Stage Manager, Mr. Dick Shortland.
Hon. Musical Director, Mr. Lewis De Groen.
Joint Hon. Treasurers, Messrs. R. Beeston and M
Gandy.
Hon. Business Manager, Mr. Geo. Matheson.
i*on. General Manager, Mr. M. J. Bloomfield.
H
ER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
* EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing musical treat of 1914
PLANS AT I’AI.ING’S.
A ,)E h H 1 T HEAT It E, SYDNEY
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF MR. WU.
n. Commencing Saturday Next,
Beaumont -Smith and Louis Meyer have the honor to
present REX BEACH’S FAMOUS STORY,
TH Ji BARRIE R.
Prices; 1/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
N
A T I O N A L THEATRE, SYDNEI
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER
2.30 VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at'B.
'■}!- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/- &6c
STIRLING & LOVE. LA STELLA TRIO
SEBASTIAN MERRILL. THE HARTLEY WONDERS
PERCIVAL. ARTHUR ELLIOTT.
MATILDE & ELVIRA. BRIGHT SISTERS
THE CHIPOLA TWINS. EDITH BOULTON
MAUDE FANNING & CO.
WESTON & HILL. MOLLIE AMBROSE.
Evening Prices as Usual.
; ph o n e Central 906 for Reservations.
| \ PE «lAI SALON DE LUXE
Direction BENDRODT & IRVING.
GRAND MASQUERADE BALL
TUESDAY, AUGUST 4.
DANCING.
SESSIONS TWICE DAILY.
’Phone: 682 William Street.
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure i The Union Manufacturing Com
pany guarantee to return paid if
Wright’s Rheijmat
cure, does .hot
lu
nedy.
pur rhei
/roubles/
■anadian
_ sciatica,
tdp'ey //roubles j'JOV this
\u these ufere many failures,
matter oj have been only
three instances in Jyte'years in which the refund
was claimed Ifyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
[they issue with the remedy The price is only
‘5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case^_
Amusements.
HE LITTLE THEATRE
CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
- • • EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER & MISS VIOLET PAGET
i in
SWEET LAVENDER.
: PINERO’S SWEETEST PLAY.
I BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
You, Haven’t seen Sydney until .you’ve visited
T HE PICTURE BLOCK THEATKES
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baruikgton Miller, General Manager.
OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BURT OF ABB.”
(FAMILY M A TIN E E —SAT URD A Y.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s, Plans at Nicholson’s fNo Extra Fee).
G E c 1 A K I_U M, SYDNEY.
JTIE ICE-SKATI KG SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OP FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.mi
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone, Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
3*’ KK C 15 J{ ’S LYCIC U M, SVI)N E Y.
THE WORLD’S BEST PICTURES.
every EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAjT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s A- White Rose.
To 1 ? 5 t king ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST NIGHTS OP
LEROY, TALMA & BOSCO.
MIRTH. MYSTERY. MAGIC.
POPULAR PRICES. PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Direction....
U HR MAJESTY’S
1 • Direction J.
E. J. CARROLL.
Til EAT RE, M EI,BO U RNE.
C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 25.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GILBERT AND SULLIVAN
OPERA CO. in
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
and TRIAL BY JURY.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Yr» J\? BtraUan Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
II E A T R E ROY AX, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
in
OPPICEII 666.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4,/-; Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
It IN (' ICSS’S Til HAT HE. MELIiOIItNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLAN DOONE
and his talented Company of Comedians, in
THE COLLEEN LAWN.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
I J O U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FULLER-BRENNAN vaudeville.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
STAVORDALE QUINTET.
JOLLY MARIE. lIAYES & RTVES.
BRINKMAN & STEELE SISTERS.
BONITA. BILLY LEE.
HANLON, DEAN & HANLON. ROSE MILLWARD.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
tWIAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
|y| ULIIOUItNE GLACIARIUM.
ICE-SKATING.
Afternoons at 3.
Evenings at 7.45.
THE EVENT OF THE SEASON.
FANCY -DRESS CARNIVAL.
THURSDAY, 6th AUGUST.
\At E S T’S I’ALACE, MELIIOURN E.
hie best WEST’S PICTURESthe best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinfies Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatf.pt Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
D I R C H & CARROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres ot
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
Pre*eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L’O'U'l’S
JERDAN’S LTD.
have pleasure In introducing the latest novelty
in Mechanical Toys,
vi;’ :
WORKING MODELS OF THE WORLD'S
MECHANICAL WONDERS CAN BE BUILT BY
ANY BOY.
x:
AMERICAN
MODEL
DUILDER
|££P
fNo. 3
Boys, Learn to Build with Steel
'You can make your own Railroad Signals, Bridges,.
(Towers, etc., with The American Model Buildeu
THE MOST FASCINATING AND INSTRUCTIVE NOVELTY EVER INVENTED.
In Progressive Sets. To Build from 30 to 99 Models.
Each set self-contained, with all fittings and tools and complete instructions.
This is the toy that makes engineers of smart lads.
Call and see our Special Display, or write for full particulars.
We are Sole Agents for this wonder, and supply the Trade at Special Prices.
Sets from 3/6.
JERDAN’S, 393 Georg'e Street, Sydney
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession
: Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
ďf
We make and repair them, and will
Bend you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants.
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS&CO. Ltd., Wharf St., Brisbane, Q.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all parts of the world.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
df
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS .
fMrtaq
es
UjunqTor
onie
u
FOR
COLDS
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSIRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. O W 3 RIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
Health follows the
regular use of
Montserrat
Lime Juice
Sauce
8$
c
It makes
,you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers.
[THE WONDER KNIFEI
The best and handiest Knife ever
CUT ROUND HOLES of any size with
leather, wood, &c., like a punch. '
made.
ƒd
fd
lt will
one turn in
A good, strong,
serviceable knife, Syi inches Jpng v cutting blade $$ inch
wide, finest tempered tool steel. Real bnckborn handle.
Punch blade also useful as - a reamer Qt marlin spike.
Pn«3/9. we pay carriage. . Vonr money back in fall il
Makes
Leather
Hole*
Ac.
it is not in your opinion the
most useful knife you have
ever seen. The Union Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb


ITCHING BURNING
HASH OH ARMS
Kept Awake at Night. Little Cuti-
cura Ointment Cured. Not Slight-
est Return of Eczema Since.
"Bayview,” Bibbes St., Rockdale, N.S.W.
—“My arms were covered with an itching,
burning rash, which kept me awake at night
(being always worse at night). I went to
a chemist and he told me it was dry eczema.
Ho gave me ointments which I used for sis
weeks without any good result. Just as I
was getting disheartened I saw advertised
the Cuticura Ointment, so I sent for some,
and I am pleasod to say a little of it cured
mo and I have never had the slightest return
of the eczema. I would advise anyone suf-
fering from any form of skin disease to give
Cuticura Ointment a trial. lam bathing
my baby with Cuticura Soap, and am
pleased to say she has a lovely skin.”
(Signed) Mrs. A. Whitford, November, 1912.
DISFIGURING ECZEMA ON CHEEK
Palmerston, South Otago, N. Z.—“ Tho
eruption of eczema commenced as a small
spot or pimple on the left cheek, spreading
downwards and over to near the left ear.
It caused both disfigurement and suffering,
itching, burning and loss of sleep. Having
received a sample of Cuticura Ointment I
used it along with the Cuticura Soap with
good effect. I then purchased both Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment and continued
using them twice a day until a complete
cure was effected in about six months.”
(Signed) Andrew Wright, Jr., October, 1912.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment do much for
poor complexions, red, rough hands, and
dry, thin and falling hair. Sold throughout
tho world. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure con-
stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
put a healthy
glow on the '
cheek and
fdfd
Carters
Uttle•
IVER
PILLS.
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations. Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
ms
r&v
«> i >7
■C 1 t L
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Ilair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S iu.s.ao
Mexican WALNDT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
’CARBIDE”
Ask for “
fd
PERNIX,
i and see that
you get it, with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Drum
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural or on the Security of Government
Dphpnturpti inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
ZealSnd Inscribed htOCK "jtTt LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST;
Ou'r new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrower the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any flue.
Dirfctors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; The
uiRi.CTORS ine i . The Hon R j Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knni J KC ‘Sir'Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary; Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
pp°A FSS ' ’’HEAD OFFICE: S 7 PITT STREET. SYDNEY H. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
%
(iUUVuvwW
By •* Kat‘ar*ah” Treatment
the Nose and Throat are
treated effectively with
Medicated Oxy&en inhaled
direct to the afflicted mem>
branes *
“Kat'ar’ah” Treatment has
a direct influence upon
the catarrhal poisons of the
body and conquers the
disease by removing the
cause.
Are You a Victim of
CATARRH ?
You know what Catarrh is, with its humiliating and discomfort-
ing symptoms.
A slight cold develops into a stubborn and protracted one, while
the discharges from the nose are most offensive and annoying.
As the inflammation extends further up into the head and the
delicate mechanism of the ear is attacked, there is a continual
buzzing and ringing in the ears, and frequently the hearing is
partially or totally lost. Headaches are almost constant, with
sometimes acute pains in the eyes, and the nose becomes so
plugged up that the patient must breathe through the mouth,
while the slimy secretions are forced back into the throat, re-
quiring almost continual hawking and spitting to dislodge them.
At certain stages of .the disease the odor of the breath becomes
very bad, to the mortification and embarrassment of the suffer-
ers* and the disgust of all who come near them". Gradually the
mucous discharge finds its way into the internal organs, and a
most miserable form of Dyspepsia, or Catarrh of the Stomach, is
the inevitable consequence. The blood becomes contaminated by
the catarrhal poisons and unhealthy matter, and these are
distributed through the body.
Catarrh is then a deep-seated, dangerous, constitutional or sys-
temic disease, and its effect upon the general health and system
is soon apparent - appetite and strength are gone, weight is lost,
despondency takes the place of confidence, and the disease
frequently settles in some vital organ or terminates in Bronchitis,
Asthma, Neuritis, or dread Consumption.
Trial Bottle of
“Kat-ar-ah” Inhalant
FREE.
I want all who are afflicted with Catarrh to try a sample bottle of “Ivat-ar-
ah” Inhalant at my expense. It is a synthetic compound of certain valu-
able medicaments, and is supremely beneficial in its influence on the mucous
membrane. It has a distinctly soothing, healing and sero-sanative effect,
sufficient to disintegrate and dislodge the slimy mucous accumulations.
‘Kat-ar-ah” is first aid to Catarrh sufferers. Its healing effects are simply
marvellous. You can notice an improvement immediately after beginning
its use. It quickly takes up its work of killing the disease germs, of mini-
mising and eventually stopping the discomforting mucous discharges in
the nose and throat—mucous that is finding its way into your stomach
and poisoning your system.
I will supply you with a Trial Bottle of “Kat-ar-ah” Inhalant, FREE OF
CHARGE, if you will send me your full name and address, together with
3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage. Write address plainly, state whether
Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and be sure to mention this paper. Send for your bottle
NOW.
HERBERT HERDER, 2 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Hunyadi
■■■W CONSTIPATION
Nature has provided a safe and trustworthy remedy for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Headaches and Hemorrhoids in Hunyadi
Janos Natural Aperient Water, supplied direct from the springs
just as nature creates it. Try a wineglassful every morning, on
arising, before breakfast. Your chemist sells it..
The Inky Way.
The Adelaide dailies have had another draw made
upon them through the establishment of a State Re-
porting Dept., which will take over Hansard,, hitherto
contracted for. Sincoek (formerly of the Adver-
tiser., but lately Government shorthand writer) is
to be director, and Johns (Register, and authoi-
editor of “Notable Australians” —the “Who’s Who
of this side of the world) chief of staff. Johnson
and Wilson go from the ’Tiser; Cockburn and Caldei
from the Register. Promotion on the latter paper s
staff has been of uncanny quickness during the last
few years, C. J. Stevens having retired for health
reasons, D. J. Gordon to enter politics, and Clarence
Moody to start the Mail —to name only the leading
men. #
Over £14,000 has been banked towards the fund
for launching a Labor daily in Perth. With another
£lOOO up, the co. will be registered and the time
become ripe. In fact, if various unions would part
up what they owe, the time would be mellow now.
* * * *
A novel use is being found for the flickergraph
at a well-known school of journalism in the United
States. Pictures of stirring topical events are
shown to the students, who are then required to write
a report of what they have seen. The presiding
professor is thus able to check the students woik
thoroughly, and see whether the points are seized
upon. To add to the realism the howls of the
wounded are imitated from the back by a hired
maniac. This system is likely to remove one ot
the school’s chief difficulties in providing practice in
reporting;. Previously it was the rule to chase the
students out into the city in pursuit of a story, hut
when they turned in the “copy” it was impossible to
tell whether they had omitted important facts or i.ot.
Prom an Adelaide evening paper: “The machine
suddenly fell to the platform and pinned Mr. Tonkin
against the goods-shed. A part of the harvester
struck him in the abdomen, but fortunately the gal-
vanised iron gave way under the strain. The suf-
ferer was conveyed to his home.” Hut why not to
the foundry ?
* * * *
A. J. Stephenson, 'of the Queensland Times (Ips-
wich), has been made an M.L.O. —presumably by way
of reward for his paper's unswerving allegiance to
anti-Labor principles. Ry sticking to this simple
creed, the Times escaped much embarrassment in
the days when Ividston, Denham, Hlair and others
were scrambling for the position of top-dog, and the
Courier and many reptile contemporaries had to
change- their coats so often that they were in their
shirt-sleeves most of the time. Stephenson has been
a minor figure in politics himself, but, like his
ancient and estimable rag, has never done anything
rash.
* * * *
“Wanderer” (from London): Australian press cor-
respondents in London aft.er a time get lazy, and
their fresh outlook on things becomes blunted. It
is no exaggeration to say that often their material
might be a literal transcript from a leading article
or a Parliamentary special's report in one or other
of the chief London papers. It is stuff that could
be just as well written from the files in Australia.
What is needed -is that Australian papers should change
their London correspondents every few years. This
course is absolutely necessary if Australian readers
are to have live stuff and not a re-hash of London
papers. The fact that several London letters are
written by Government servants apparently does not
meet with the disapproval of Australian newspaper
proprietors, though the Australian Journalists’ Asso-
ciation might be interested to know how things
stand. The proprietors, if they inquired sufficiently
closely, would undoubtedly find that their representa-
tives have a finger in many profitable pies.
“Matrix”: Rockhampton’s Bulletin has just
brought out its weekly, the Capricornian, as an illus-
trated publication. Formerly it used to have pic-
tures only at Christmas, when its bucolic supporters
saw to it that the paper was not. borrowed until the
prints were scissored out and plastered on the slab
walls. Now that the Capricornian has them as a
regular thing, all three divisions of Bananaland have
photographs of the prize pig, the winning ram, the
supreme Strawberry and the horse that was 42 years
old last Christmas Day.
* * * *
“Tiaki”: After reading a U.S.A. magazine advt-, to
the effect that some syndicate or other was desirous
of receiving a number of short stories, poems, etc.,
and that high prices would be realised by amateur or
new writers whose stuff might be accepted, a friend
of mine who can’t write determined (in spite of my
advice) to give an alleged story a passage to Wooden-
hamland. Some months later he received a con-
gratulatory note from the shiridykft, stating that his
yarn had been selected- from among hundreds
as being one of the few worthy of printers' ink, and
informing him that, for the sum of $7O, they would
secure for him the right of publication in the WlLn
Cat Magazine, the Phantazy and other (unknown)
publications. Had it not been for me this country
would have been $7O to the bad, as my foolish
friend was just on the eve of sending the money
after the manuscript. I was unusually hard up that
week, too.
* * * *
“Albion”: This came home as part of one of the
newest novels: —
“Lilian, love me!” he pleaded. “I have loved
you always. I love you, love you, love you—with
my whole heart —-with all that I have or am. Love
is never killed. Love can never wholly die. Love
is of God, for God is love. Let me love you, Lilian.
Let me prove to you that love is not dead. It will
live again. It will enlighten your heart, and
sweeten your life, if you will only let it, Lilian ! I
love you. Will you not try—ah! give me leave to
teach you how to love.”
At this stage the literature tore itself from my
embrace and leaped into the fire. But —not a word
to the wife!
* * * *
“Harrison O.”: Attracted one night by a knot of
people outside the —er— Globe Theatre (Melb.) I found
that Maxwell (of the Daily Flute) and an angry
commissionaire were in the centre of the group. Max-
well had in his hand the commissionaire’s musical
comedy cap and was endeavoring to reason with its
ruffled owner. “Don’ be’ave li’ damn foo’,” he was
saying. “I’m willin’ pay yo’—hie—fair price fo’
it. Now, wot’ll yo’ take?” “I tell you I don’t want
yer ruddy money ; I want me cap.” He made a grab
at the absurd thing, but Maxwell was too quick for
him. “Now, look here, ol’ man,” he gurgled, “I’ll
tossyer fo’ it.” “No, vou won’t. You’ll well
give it to me or it’ll be th’ worse for yer.” Maxwell
fumbled in his vest pocket, and produced half a
sovereign. “We’ll settle dishpute in bishness-li’ way,”
he announced. “ ’Eads th’ capsh yo’s, tailish mine.”
But the indignant owner of the property had enough
of the debate, and without further delay a snatch-as-
snatch-can contest was commenced. My friend Cherry,
the manager of the theatre,, appeared, and with my
bashful assistance, separated the combatants. With
the help of a friendly John Hop I conveyed Maxwell
to his rooms, and he showed me his museum, con-
sisting of articles he had either stolen, bought out-
right, or otherwise acquired while in alcohol. There
were a fireman’s helmet, a Nellie Stewart bangle,
several umbrellas, a couple of back-haircombs, the
greater part of a huge block of cheese in an advanced
state of decomposition, a plain elastic garter and an
edition de luxe of a similar article, some wineglasses,
several cigars, a tram-conductor’s punch and sun-
dries. I learned that he generally opened with a
straight-out offer to buy the article he fancied, and
on being refused he always suggested tossing for it.
When sent to interview a suburban Mavor he wanted
to toss him for “yo’ rotten ole town ’all,” and in the
Government departments he became known for his
anxiety to possess articles, ranging from a pen-
wiper to a roll-top desk. I last saw Maxwell in a
corridor of the Law Courts. He was hurrying along
uncertainly, wearing an arrangement of horsehair at
an absurd angle over the left side of his head and
face. Later, his Honor’s associate was sent to inter-
view the editor of the Daily Flute, and Maxwell
disappeared from Melbourne.


The Rec °B:nisecl Leading: House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
m
G
n
A
D
E
S - N |-!n, r ‘^ es ’.' nade from finost q«a«ty old
ot ’ ™ l<; h superior hand-cut Para vul-
a, ? moi, thpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
AU Sha[,CS 3/- each (post .free)
fd
“Gouclron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
PIPES EVER
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED
Pa *a Vulcamie Mo uth p iec es, in case,
8/({, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6 °i/.
each (post free). ’ '
N ' - 'l'' l ' ess< ‘ < ' Amber Mouthpieces,
10/8 ’ 18/6 ' 25 /'
CIGARS.
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
s
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—-
25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
Ireej.
JHREEVVITCHK
l VJJ»G
frjMKr-ES
D/M ORRiS
B. Sons L
tobaccos.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. I„ pl ug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
J j°nus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
y m enC J ed ‘ Put U P in 2 °*- tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
m
'
m
mmm
a*
c
0
M
P
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
» »> Real Morocco .. 3/6 „
« » Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 „
>* n Gazelle 5/- »
*> .. Velvet Calf .... 6/6 «
fd
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
Q
fd
B
E
r
E
R
Shaving »eis, comprising 1 renowned C.R.IS.
Razor, 1 G. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
R
A
R
E
RAZORS
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle .... 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches .* CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE. *
##
ďƒd
ÜBsaafls® 5 *
Underwear.
ti . Once you have worn Jason
Underwear you will never go back to the old kind.
THE beautiful all Australasian-wool fabric of
Jason, with its silky softness, makes it ideal
wear for all seasons. It is the most comfortable and
the most healthy—keeping the body at an even tern-
peratu. ein extremes of weather. And Jason is guar-
anteed absolutely unshrinkable-any garment that
shrinks will be replaced free of all cost. Jason costs
no more than you usually pay : in fact the higher-
grade garments are much more economical than
any other make.
Underwear is mads in all styles and
Purtlv?'. ’”,? ?*• ,ac,,e *- «nd children. Infants'
f“' n e „ H 7* ,<e Wear Ml light and medium weights.
Jason Jerseys for children wear splendidly
Uyonr dealer does not stock Jason insist
ufion his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write —
Jason Underwear Co , Leicester, England. Aa43
I'
ir
i \
1* m
Dinneford’s
Magnesia !
fd
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD'B”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
T he Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, .indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
fd
F
AIRBANKS-MORSE
MARINE engines
For Pleasure and Work Boats
nowpr ea Un smoothly ’ develop full rated
chana-pnhP^ ’ cor PP act * -All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed
to 15 If Slow-speed Engines, 7V 2
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
2t S o 200 H.P Statlonary and Portable sizes,
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engine;
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple
compact Two sizes. Will operate anv
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 Vft.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Type “K"
7i h.p.
F.M.
~r&
AGENTS—
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd
SELL WOOL
Personal attention to all consignments.
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE
&
SKINS.
Why not give them a trial ?
STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
M ARRIAGE^V I ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
ExoiTfn rH W H 1913 l difci ?, n > 28 6d Posted. Merrie
Lngland, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted Dr Lamar
tine.s Sir, ent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
Pi* Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 enoravino-s Is
P °l t - , H( ? W ™ Wrestle, Moll
1 landers, a. iare book by De Foe 3 s nosier!
I. Hurston’s Card Tricks, 'is 2d. ’ All Sola’s
ls6deach - Posted. Educating the
Horse, 3s. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
toe Memory RC iT R ’i Y P °,f ed l How T 0 Strengthen
i J : j. B ld - Bell’s Standard Elocu-
iiONisr, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
(Send KR for l?irt ND r M ‘ THR Rational p »ess Rkprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth 3/fi
Joys of Tree, is 6d. Nigger Stomp Speeches Is
\v IND .°, W Tic “ RITING Explainrd, Is 3d. Mrchanics*
Workshop llandybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book 2/-
fs Fort'iVnl o^ , Pmrt * V 3 ’ Parlor Tricks & Games j
YfiP nl o T Br ? AEDS > V 2. Miller’s Sport-
ing J ami HLEr, 1/2. The Voice, by Hubert Wales 3/3
1 ricks and Diversions with Cards, illus. 3 s Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is el How to
Make Love, Is-post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
3s fid’ U1I)K ( siln P le te s ts for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamers Sure Guide), price Is: post Is 3d
How to Become Quick at Figures, 'is id"
nS T '’« 91 ' Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow s Book of Strength 3s posted
OF Paris S ls P fid BKM H« i ' RT ’ 38 9d posted - Mysteries
0F , l ARI8 ’ ls 6d - History of the Rod (Flagellations
o',’, Rvi' la r r e]lants) ’ soarce > Us. Practical Gas and
, r ’ iA# ; Handbook, as. Not Guilty (Blatch-
Gnn \vn‘ a, T "nt ART ° K J,U - J,TSU , 9d and is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
Rritish, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
8 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1/3
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, 3s posted. House Painting and
Pal>k ' r j ing > 1s Pkof. Fowler’s Human Science
10s fad. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d*
I®
m
■
1
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248
e2ta M HNICAL TE[ i AIS > shows up Human
in aun e as it exists. . Here are answered, in plain lano-uao-P a r hon
Sana questions that occur to the minds of youn«- and old "but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting theirphys"cian Ohanre™
anticipates a bright wilhls'toenloy maiiMUfe"^ks
.“r, ?,° t A hf. a s“„ k °»7S tfsss*
Ah\ address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND d
BOOKSELLER TO THE
commonwealth, -ms
_(»IPS\ FORTUNE TELLING CARDS— T dvf
BUSINESS, FUTUKITI', fcc, with full t ?ons’
U posted. Gamblers’ Skorkts and How to’
'Vis at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Am a
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting etc* fs 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated ’is 3d
That Kascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d p.™., - '
IT P,AN °ii 1S - PU; -° TUN.NG AND
repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette Is Hoyifs
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is * How to
Mesmerise Is 3d. Man From Snowt Rivfp 4™
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlop Mac c u
posted The White Slave Traffic Is Etfp*
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. Ready Reckoner
AND LIGHTNING CALCULATOR, Is. THE " “
for an. diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up
Spiking Madf P Easv ® pbkc » bs .and Toasts. Public
speaking made Easy, Is. postea. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits is - ™°r
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd!
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Hookkeeping, 2s. Life op Deeming
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
self Taught, ls_2d. W annan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted, Lee's Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. mTEstablished 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEBR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REM £L IN STAMPS. MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sta-e Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine
Is. Old Basil Songs, Is 3d nose. Dr. Milford’s Mid.’
!L F , B A HAN oT OK I 92 P racfcical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete
} is. Champions or the
King, Is _d. Guide to .Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Pourt op England, is 3d post. Love s’
I.eiter Writer, is. all About Incubators Is 9H
Morgans Freemasonry Exposed, Kev to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Diction-art, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid Z
Ixgersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Head Heads
(Jas. Coates) Is 3d posted. Ouevassk’s Advice to a
\Vife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, is 3d post free
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s uosieH
Sappho, is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers andS jgar
BmLKRS Assistant, is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
posted. Fruits op Philosophy, is post. 100 \rw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness avu
Its Cure Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Ux
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, lOOOillus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is “>d r> vv ,
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore’s Universe
assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa°-es einih
pound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvo’yanc,
Is post. -00 Old-Time Songs (words and music mm’
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age op Reason bv Pafnl'
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY)


Leslie Burrell, a Christchurch Boy,
who was Cured by
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
fd
fd
fd
fd
fd
LESLIE
HURRELL ,
(from a photo.).
“My little boy, four years of age,
was suffering from a very bad cold on
the chest, accompanied by a severe
croupy and chronic cough which would
always leave him exhausted,” writes
Mr. T. Burrell, Victoria Street,
Christchurch, N.Z. “During the at-
tack he would go black in the face,
causing us great worry and alarm.
We tried everything that was adver-
tised and recommended, but it was of
no use.. . Hearing about how Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery had cured a
similar case, I made inquiries and
purchased a bottle for a trial, with
the result that the coughing and
pains in his chest were immediately
relieved, and his health and appetite
were completely restored, and he is
to-day perfectly cured and in the
very best of health, for which I have
,Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery alone to
thank. I hope these few words of
gratitude may cause others in the
same state as my child to give it the
trial it honestly deserves.”
SAFEGUARDS THE HOME
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY FOR COUGHS AND COLDS is an
unequalled preparation for the immediate relief of all diseases of the
Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including Influenza, Bronchitis,
Coughs, Colds, Croup, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult
Respiration and Pains in the Chest. When used according to directions
it is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle
guaranteed.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is sold everywhere at 1/6, or in
larger bottles containing two and a half times the quantity at 3/
D? Sheldons
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
The only Safe, Best, Quickest-
acting Remedy for Sciatica is
DR. STOHR’S
□
n
Recommended by hundreds of English Doctors, and
used in all leading Continental and English Hospitals
IT DOES NOT AFFECT THE HEART.
YOU may feel Sciatica in the hip or thigh only, in the
knee, down the calf, or in the heel, or you may be
unfortunate enough to be at tacked the entire length
of the leg.
A continual dull pain frequently breaking out in the
form of a paroxysm brought on by walking or the heat
of the bed, and in various other ways. However it comes,
when you get it you know it is there, such are the symp-
toms it displays.
All these sufferings, so painful because of the acute
nature of the disease, are easily subdued and vanished,
usually in a few hours, by taking Keplialdol, Dr. Stohr’s
great and wonderful painkiller.
Even the most acute and violent forms of Sciatica
succumb to Kephaldol within a few days. Moreover
Keplialdol can be taken without any risk of unpleasant or
dangerous effects. Iu this respect it is unlike all other
remedies for the same purposes.
IT IS GUARANTEED TO BE ABSOLUTELY
HARMLESS even in very large doses, and is warmly
praised, prescribed and recommended by hundreds of
medical men who have made extensive'tests of its efficacy.
Get a tube and keep it handy, for it is absolutely
reliable for curing Headache, Neuritis, Rheumatism,
Painful Menstruation and Nerve Pains of all sorts.
f.
r
Sold in tubes by all
Chemists at 1/6 & 3/6.
SEE WHAT THE DOCTORS SAY OF IT
“Kephaldol proved of much ser-
vice in a case of Sciatica, giving
temporary relief within twenty-
four hours, and after that what
will be, I believe, a permanent
cure.”
-—Dr. la. D. H. Russell, Bristol.
“From the results experienced
by Kephaldol in a case of Sciatica
and one of Lumbago (probably
rheumatic), I think it has all the
properties you claim for it.”
—Dr. R. Fegan, Maida Vale, W.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining a supply locally send a postal note or
stamps to the \alue of tube desired, and it will be sent you by return post.
KEPHALDOL, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
KL 4803
A Romantic Circular Tragedy of
Love and Careless Navigation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fM HE world uncapsuled half its joy
And set a draught of vintage running
That greybeard Time, while yet a boy,
Had pressed from warm grapes ripely sun-
ning
Their happy bunches in the light
Of days with youngest laughter bright.
c went beneath green trees, whose shade
r , The happy breezes set aquiver,
To where a dimpled gladness strayed
To frolic with a shining river,
And there upon a grassy slope
We let some blissful hours elope.
I do not hold with those who find
Their joy in action large and dashing;
Cheques on the bank of quiet mind
That day the golden airs were cashing,
As, shirking every kind of toil,
We made the Spring’s best wealth our Spoil.
The sky was blue as sweetest sin,
The warm sun bathed us in caresses,
J.he small pink flush on Clara’s chin
Was like the rose that morning presses,
All fresh and dewy from the sod,
Against the shirt front of some god.
The lingering fragrance of her lips
Was like clear fruits that ripen only
In tropic dreams, when, wonder drips
Her balm upon a heart so lonely
That even housemaids at their prayers
Teel sometimes that it throbs upstairs.
Her waist was simple, but her mind
Seemed like a pleasing, teasing riddle
Some thread of logic tried to bind
With silken thought about the middle,
The ends were loose and floated free
Tangling the universe with me.
The time passed cheerfully away
Until the broad, bright sun was drooping,
And down the fiery track of day
A lot of little clouds came trooping.
Then Clara mentioned that the fine,
Ilicli hour approached when we must dine.
We found a place wherein to feed,
Some unfrisked lamb our wants supplying,
'A ith verdant peas to match our need
By shapely young potatoes lying.
These with a little useful beer
Brought us a passing hour of cheer.
Thereafter, when the moon arose,
We wandered where, her clear light shin-
r ing,
The tip of Clara’s tender nose
To softest silver was refining,
And there we found a little boat
Upon the dancing waves afloat.
A small wind filled our spreading sail,
AVe recked not whence the thing was blow-
ing.
Upon the liquid large and pale
The tiny craft kept softly going;
The tide was strong, the wind was free ;
It bore our joy and us to sea.
Beyond the Heads an opal light
( Upon the crested wave was dancing.
‘I fear we shall be out all night,”
The damsel murmured, coyly glancing
At that tall beacon on the steep
That blinked and nodded in its sleep.
The fresh breeeze stirred as with a spoon
The shaking water all around us.
Some magic ’neatli the perfect moon
t\ ith chains of elfin music bound us.
Delightful folly void of fear
AVas pink on our quadruple ear.
The moon went down, the sun arose,
But still our boat was eastward sailing.
AA ith leagues of water ’neatli our toes
Our spirits sometimes needed baling;
So waterlogged our fancies grew
AVe mentioned some short prayers we knew.
But still that music of delight
The elfin pipes of spring were sounding
\V as with us all the day and night,
AVhile wave on wave its shape was round-
ing,
And all the night and all the day
It led us and our wits astray.
The wind kept steady at its job,
Our simple cordage tightly straining.
AA e saw our vessel lightly bob
Across the wet without complaining;
But after fifteen days or so
AA e felt that things were getting slow.
But everything went fairly well,
For, when the sun that eve was setting,
A\ e rose upon a little swell,
And saw a shore the waves were wetting;
Just after dark the light wind fanned
Our peaceful sail right up to land.
AVe saw a wall of rugged rock,
.V lighthouse at the top was flashing,
And at the foot with roar and shock
The seas of all the world were splashing;
But as before the wind we flew
The rocks drew back and let us through.
Bight through the Heads the vessel bore
Our twin souls, in wonder’s mazes,
To find ourselves at home once more
AVho dreamt of isles in purple hazes ;
AA T e were as those who e’er the dawn
Seek crayfish and espy a prawn.
Yet everything was glad and gay,
The lamps of town were brightly burning,
The gentle waves that barred our way
Our sea-worn craft was lightly spurning;
And then with neither noise nor fuss
The Manly boat climbed over us.
Y>s. just as we had settled down
To dream some solid dreams of dining,
AVe had to tumble out and drown
Beneath the cold pale waters shining;
Not sixty feet from one red lamp
AA r e perished in the sad, salt damp.
The tide comes in. the tide goes out.
And we lie silent in the trickle :
The little fishes round about
Attempt our pale wet toes to tickle,
And all the sleep Ave can command
Is mixed with oyster-shells and sand.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
Sentiments and Analyses.
NOTHING DOING:
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A RAGGED-WINGED hawk floated
lazily above the stunted bush, and
this is what he saw in the bottom
of that saucer whose cup was sunshot blue:
The twisted eucalypts of North Australia,
their wood grown like gimlets as much
from the winds and the glaring sunlights
and the low rainfall as by reason of the
massive rocks of lime and iron they rooted
in; a railway whose half rusted though
mostly new metals told of infrequent trains
and therefore of little freight; a rust red
smelter warmed only by the sun, and a black
slag heap in which a little tree tried to grow
and recapture the bush from man; a dozen
cracked slag pots, their handles pointed sky-
wards as if they prayed for work and fluent
metal. The remaining ten sheets of iron
on the roof of the smelter-shed rang and
crackled against one another, for the sun
had drawn their nails out of the rafters.
The hawk wheeled again, and, finding no
food in the earth, turned westward looking
for a camp of men and the jetsam thereof,
and so the blue swallowed him. A crow
perched on the smelter house cawed de-
spairingly, and recognised that though this
might be his lodging he must dine out. Then
he saw at the door of the thirty-roomed
wooden hotel a hundred yards away a large
and bearded man loading a rifle; and the
crow followed the hawk.
The large man grounded the rifle with a
snarl of despairing rage, and felt as if he
too had been a hawk starved out of the
land. Then he re-entered the hotel which
was so new from the hands of the carpenters
that it creaked shamelessly like a church-
warden wearing new boots and taking
around the plate. Stumps dotted the alleged
street and gum suckers grew in it. But
they were not in the way of the flies, and
these constituted the traffic of the blighted
township of Featherbed, so called because
it was surrounded by ten-ton boulders, and
one of them had broken a waggon axle- —•
the property of a carrier of cynical imagi-
nation. The Featherbed Hotel, with the
bare ridge poles of a score of tents, occu-
pied the northern side of the street. The
southern side showed half a dozen frame
houses, their galvanized-iron roofs intact,
their hessian sides and gables blown into
coarse ribbons and a real shop of galva-
nized iron with a real window. It had a
real hand-painted sign, too —“Tobacco,
cigars, cool drinks,” the cool drinks being
represented by a lemonade bottle nearly
ready to act as a burning glass and tire the
establishment.
Y\ ithin the Featherbed Hotel neglect of
maintenance had come to second the de-
structive haste of the jerry-builder. As the
large man trod along those deserted ban-
quet halls a defective foundation block
sagged the centre of the floor to his weight
and that relieved him because he could
curse-the builder. Cursing everything under
his breath, he went to the empty bar. lie
took a cloudy glass from the bone dry
rinser and stretched his hand to a bottle
labelled “Ginger Wine,” for though by pro-
fession a publican he was on principle a
teetotaller and a sinner, and he had looked
forward to large numbers of miners and
smelter hands on pay-day rushing the bar
tor fermented and spirituous liquor. A fat
spider, bloated by indignation over his
natural swollenness, resented the hand’s
appioaeh to the bottle which he had already
Pegged out as a site for his webby home,
and fled to a crevice of the unlined wall.
The big man swore. “Spiders too!” he
said. ‘ I think I had ’em on my brains
when I believed that lying railroad, and
the smelters that were blown in to blow
out again in three weeks, and the mines
with only hot air and water in ’em.”
lie drank the muddy ginger wine and
grinned. “Why! the climate’s got to that
even.” He looked at the glass sign over
the closed door and slowly read aloud the
reversed lettering.
JOHN HENRY QUOGPIGGE,
Licensed to Retail Fermented and Spirituous
Liquors.
‘So you are, John Henry, you dashed
ass J r you can find anybody to pay for
’em.”
He went into the parlor, empty of life
but flies and spiders, though it was car-
peted with moving sand, which the ever-
breathing winds seemed to have made alive.
He seated himself at the round table of
white wood and looked at the almost new
ledger upon it and at the two beer rings
showing. The third beer . ring stain he
knew was covered by the book. lie lifted
the ledger and satisfied himself that the
third beer ring had not left the township
of Featherbed in the general exodus. Then
he opened the ledger sadly—almost rever
ently—as if again he was to touch the relics
of dear and departed friends. As a fact,
the ledger contained memoranda of many
departed who had been dear to him, though
not one had been a friend. As he turned
the leaves he spoke his disgusted comment-
aries aloud, for he had been three weeks
alone and the sound of his own voice was
better than none. He thought it better
than none only because he was a modest
man and had never been an actor or a mem-
ber of Parliament.
“Three weeks,” said the large man.
“Three weeks - without anybody to talk to
barring the scoundrel who wanted tw-
shiJlings’ worth of whisky for fourpence
and the thief who ordered a drink and told
me.- he’d pay it next time he was passing
As Mf anybody passed this way twice.
(Continued on next page.)


DROPSY
Watery Swellings under the Eyes and in the Ankles, Limbs and Body.
The fluid you take with your food,
in a single month , weighs as much as
your entire body.*
Most of this fluid has to pass out
through the kidneys, bladder and
urinary system.
Imagine what would happen if the
outlets for this water were stopped up !
In a few hours the limbs and body
would swell to a great size with the
collected water.
That is what actually takes place in
dropsy.
Dropsy is the name given to the
soft, watery swellings which appear in
the ankles, limbs and body, under the
eyes or in the eyelids, or on the backs
of the hands. If you press your* finger
into the swollen flesh the pitting slowly
fills up with the water again.
* (i.e. —If you are of average weight.)
*1
w
DROPSICAL EYES.
DROPSY is not a disease in itself,
but it is serious because it indicates
serious disease.
It may show that the kidneys are
failing to separate the waste water from
the blood, or that there is something
obstructing the urinary canals and
preventing the waste water passing out;
or it may be caused by defective action
of the heart.
Tapping takes away the water from
under the skin, but more water soon
collects, because tapping cannot reach
the cause of the dropsy, and as long
as the cause remains the dropsy will
continue.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
a quick and direct action on the kidneys
and bladder. They promote a free flow
from the system, washing out clogging
impurities from the passages, and
draining out the collected water through
the natural channels. They gently
lead the kidneys back to health and
activity, and thus reach the cause of
most cases of dropsy.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
no action on the heart, nor on the liver,
stomach or bowels ; they are solely for
the kidneys and urinary system, and
are, therefore, of the highest value in
dropsy, gravel, stone and all diseases
arising from kidney and bladder trouble.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Fitt Street,
Syd' iy.
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
There’s that cow Aitken: Three weeks’
board £3 155., drinks 35., drinks 45., drinks
3s. Gd., washing Is. 3d., drinks 25., bottle
rum 10s. —£4 17s. l)d., and he paid me by
the mile. There’s Barwidge: Two weeks’
board £2 10s., drinks 75., drinks 25., drinks
3s. Gd., drinks 75., drinks 45., one fowl Bs.,
drinks 2s. And lie stole my portmanteau
and got away. And I was only open three
weeks when the rail was stopped, and the
new smelter never started, and I can’t cart
the pub away on my back. Sarah Evans,
two weeks’ wages in advance, and she never
came near the place. Last week’s takings,
one and thruppence. This week ninepence.
And it’s Friday.”
He wandered through the record of bad
debts, slammed the book covers and began
liis hourly inspection of the house —that
being his only amusement.
“Nobody here to talk to but that Tom
Quilty up the street, and I’d rather live in
an asylum than open my mouth to the low
brute. It was just up to him to have fellers
go sclilenter on his rag boarding-house. But
I’m a hard-working, saving man. I’ve been
a total abstainer for fourteen years, and
as soon as I start a pub I lose my savings.”
He went up the creaking stairs, and the
moment he put his foot on the upper floor
two bedroom doors opened and the front
door slammed to. The marooned publican
cursed the builders again as he went from
room to room —looking at dust-covered beds
ready for the customers that came not, and
as the large Mariana recognised new
spiders and closed doors behind him in his
moated grange other rooms opened and were
ready before he reached them.
“There’s only one proverb untrue in this
jerry-made shanty,” said John Henry, “and
it is that when one door closes another
opens. Here half a dozen of them open.”
He made his tour of the upper rooms
and came back to the landing, but at the
first squeak of the floor he leaned far over
the newel post, caught the balustrade, and
by it jumped to the third stair. Not a door
opened or closed.
“Beat you that time,” said John Henry,
grinning because he had beaten something
at last.
He went through the lower rooms and
lastly into the kitchen, and stood at the door
looking at the cooking range he had been
so proud of when he had ordered it in
Brisbane.
“Cost me twelve pound fifteen without
freight, you did.” said John Henry, “and
now you’re too far away from anywhere to
be worth two penn’orth o’ gin.”
He walked over to the plate racks and
cupboards, all of new cypress pine, and
patted with a melancholy pride these proud
possessions which were not worth the carry-
ing away.
“Cypress pine,” said John Henry. “I
got _ the best for everything but myself.
White ants can’t get into cypress pine, but
they must have got into my head before I
came here.”
Then a scrap of paper at the back of
the plate rack caught his eye, and he
cursed the departed cook.
“Pasting his dirty accounts on my new
cypress pine,” growled John Henry. “I’ll
show him —that is, if I ever get away from
here alive and meet him.”
And then he read this—read it twice be-
fore he understood it, and on the under-
standing he blessed the cook. Head it the
third time before he knew the date was a
month old: —
charge Quiltys
2 karasean tins dripen
4 shangs muten
3 shyns beat.
“Quilty, the waster! Quilty, the only man
left but me! Two tins of fat —that’s a
pound. Four mutton shanks —that’s eight
bob, and cheap enough in a boom town even
if the boom’s busted. And three shins o’
beef —that’s six bob. One pound fourteen.
Oh, my beautiful schlenterer, Tom Quilty,
I’ll see you with my bill. Damn that cook,
he’s pasted it on so tight I can’t get it off
without tearing it to scraps. But I’ll get
it—where’s the axe.”
With the bright new American axe, un-
blunted by short usage and undimmed by
the bone-dry climate, he hacked the “bill”
from the plate rack and went joyfully into
the street, and eastwai’d to the big .lime-
stone bluff which formed the back wall of
Tom Quilty’s boarding-house.
It was a weird structure, and its money-
cost had been less than three shillings for
nails—frame material being provided by
rough timber from the bush and Quilty’s
axe, and covering by fired and spread kero-
sene tins picked up about the camps, and
cliaffbags opened out and sewn together by
Tom Quilty after Tom had borrowed them
from carriers’ waggons in the absence of the
owners. The three weeks elapsed since the
exodus of the miners had taken their toll
of this flimsy roof and walls. The sun-dried
jute was collapsing to the wind that blows
from sunset to sunrise, and a fragment of
chaffbag was fluttering in the lighter breeze
of daylight, as if the sinking boai’ding-house
were flying a signal of distress.
The publican, with his cypress-pine board
account under his arm, refrained from lifting
the “dooi-” of cliaffbags, and called, “Come
out, Tom Quilty ! Come out.”
The voice of a sleepy man with a queer
tremolo in evei’y word so that it sounded like
the bleating of an educated goat, replied from
the interior: “What d’ye want? This borden-
house do be closed. Me chief cook do be
gone to Melbin, to be shef at Champeen’s
Queen’s Arrums Ilotil.”
“Do you think I’d eat your boiled
golianna in your rag-bag fowl-house? Come
out, Tom Quilty, an’ be a man.”
“D’ye tink Oi’m a woman bekase I shtay
insoide? If it’s a drink y’ui’e wantin’, tis
no shly-grogshop this do be. Go you down
the road, an’ you’ll find a taytotaller makin’
tin-year-old brandy out o’ schrap iron an’
shilpuric acid.”
John Henry bore no more. He tore the
bag “door” aside and entered the log “board-
ing-house,” with its grease-stained table of
meat boxes running down the centre. On the
floor reposed Tom Quilty—the smallness of
his very little head disguised by a tremendous
growth of dark red, l’agged and most refrac-
tory whiskers growing up to his eyes and
over his ears, and leaving nothing in sight
tut whiskers and a small, rodent nose. An
uncorked bottle used by the unregenerate for
the carriage of square-face gin sprawled near
his hand.
•‘Boozing, have you?” said John Henry,
disgustedly.
“Boozin’! Not a wan —me tindher little
ma-ha-ha-n,” said Quilty, bleating his attempt
at “man” with an exaggeration that mad-
dened the publican. “The sout’ wind do be in
the misforchinit little bottle these half-hour,
me ma-ha-ha-n.”
“You’ve been boozing instead of paying me
account, you wombat-nosed waster.”
“Be quoite, me ma-ha-ha-n. Be quoite,”
answered Quilty. “It is a low ting to talk
of the faice of a ma-ha-ha-n when it be cov-
ered up wit’ whiskers bekase he have bad
look an’ can’t find a barrber. If I were a
felly wit’ money ’tis bether-lookin’ I’d be than
you—me noice little rich tinder little gintle-
ma-ha-ha-n.”
“Itich with a dirty lot like you about!
Here’s my account —pay it.”
“An’ do you kape your accounts in a tim-
ber-yard, me”
“You say ‘ma-lia-ha-n’ again, like a billy-
goat bleating under a wet verandah, and
I’ll kick your ribs until you look like an
empty cement cask.”
“Oh, will you do that, then, will you ? Will,
then, I won’t say ma-ha-ha-n. Put you’re
boot down, then, an’ I won’t say ma-ha
Well, what is yure damn bill on the flurin’
board ?”
“I had to cut it out of the kitchen. The
cook pasted it there. You owe for two kero-
sene tins o’ fat.”
“Do I, me ma-ha Right! Thin I won’t.
But do Oi?”
“You do. That’s a pound. Four shanks
mutton are eight shillings.”
“Ate shillin’s! Is it chargin’ me for a
sheep station, y’are?”
“And three shins of beef, six bob —one
pound fourteen, altogether.”
“Is. it, thin? ’Tis little good I’m at
countin’, but I’ll take your word for it, me
ma-ha Oh, thin, be quoite! T’irty-four
shilluns.”
“Yes ! Cough it up.”
“If I had a cough I could cough five pound
for meself, but ’tis a poor hand I am at bein’
a consliumptive.”
“Will you pay?”
“How could Oi? I can’t, thin, an’ that’s
the end of it.”
“Then give me my two tins of fat and my
four shanks and my three shins.”
“Yer have enough of yure own.”
“Will you pay or give them back?”
“How can Oi? The dhirty schlenterers
that, gimme the goby for theyar boarrd,
they’ve got the dhrippin’an’ the sheep shanks
an’ the shins av the bullocks insoide them,
an’ gone they are down to the coasht, an’
lef’ mb here to do the ulicawn over the
dead ould times.”
“Then,” said the publican with joy in his
eyes and in his voice. “Then I’ll have it out
of your hide.”
Quilty rose at that, and stood, a big, bony
man with freckled arms and variegated
elbows reminiscent in their mad coloration
of a zoo, before his creditor.
“None o’ your damn rules o’ the ring,”
said he. “Kickin’ an’ gougin’ do be allowed,
an’ I’ll bet you the first eye out for tin shil-
lin’s, me ma-ha-ha-n.”
John Henry accepted the long-drawn-out
bleat as its intended insult, and struck.
It was a very wild battle. They fought"
over the table and under it, and at last fell
on it, and struggled among its ruins, and
picked themselves up again, still fighting —-
John Henry silently raging, Quilty breath-
ing subtle insults.
Quilty’s nose had taken such punishment
that it threatened to swell itself over the
limits of his tremendous whiskers, and his
right eye was closed, yet he struck cheer-
fully, saying whether the blow landed or
not: “There’s two karasene tins o’ dhrippin’,
me ma-ha-ha-n. (Bhlast you—you bruk me
eye, t’ t’ief o’ the wurruld), an’ there do be
the bullick shins, me ma-lia-lia-n. (Would
y’ make me deaf an’ dum, y’ loafer, hittin’
me on the ear, thin?) An’ there’s the sheep
shanks on yure sliolus plexus, me ma-ha-ha-n.”
But the blow had landed on John Henry’s
ribs, and the last bleat had made him bare-
sark. lie put his arms around Quilty and
threw him, and Quilty lifted his iron-:',hod
boots and kicked John Henry’s shins. They
rolled up to the chaffbag wall and tore it as
if it were paper, rolled out of the wrecked
boarding-house, and fought lying down in
the blazing sunlight among the rocks.
Then John Henry was uppermost again.
Mad with nain, he forgot all rules. Among
the dense thicket of Quilty’s hair and beard
lie found Quilty’s large ears—each a hand-
ful—and lifting Quilty’s head by these con-
venient handles he banged Quilty’s skull on
the limestone until Quilty gasped that he
had had enough.
“Ye’ve got the two tins o’ fat an’ the
shanks an’ the beef shins, me ma-ha-ha-n, an’
I don’t want thim. Take thim away an’ leave
me a resate.”
John Henry, standing over him, winded
and sore, but victorious, had to laugh at that.
He found a pencil in his pocket and wrote
upon the board : “Received payment in full.—
John Henry Quogpigge.”
He went back to the creaking hotel nurs-
ing a sore ear and tenderly caressing a fast-
closing eye, but the terrible ennui of the de-
serted township had been broken, and he
was glad.
“It: would have been a pity for him to be
able to pay the money or the fat,” said John
Henry as he returned from the kitchen to the
spider-haunted bar. As lie took down the
bottle labelled “Ginger Wine” the parlor
flooring creaked as the front door opened.
He waited to hear the rare customer coming
along the passage, and then Tom Quilty
entered the bar-room.
“You’re a great foighter,” said Quilty;
“an’ fightin’ do make me dhry. Will y’
shout?”
John Henry hesitated but for a moment.
Then he put the square-faced bottle on the
counter with a glass.
“Luck, Tom,” he said.
“An’ luck to you, me ma-ha-ha-n,” said
Tom Quilty. “May y’ never be short o’ fat
an’ sheep shanks.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


THE
; '
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
fd
fdfd
fd
fd
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention —
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
.being no electric ignition or other
’complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are. such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct-
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
G£ORG£ STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane^
New Zealand Agents; Philips & Pike, Wellington. .
BOILER TROUBLES
and THEIR REMEDY
fIPEXIOK
fd
BOILER
FLUID
Let Your Boilerman Make a Test
Give him a Two-gallon Drum of Apexior—see that he applies it
in the right way—and after a few months ask him if it has
not stopped corrosion and pitting—if there is more scale on the
parts not covered with Apexior—if the small amount of scale
adhering to the part that is covered with Apexior falls off with
the slightest tap —if he thinks the efficiency of the Boiler would
be increased by its exclusive use. We are willing to let Apexior
be judged by his answer. But send for a trial drum while you
think of it. «
Tried and Tested and Now Used Regularly by many of the
Largest Steam Users in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
Pty. Ltd.
QIjPOLL
O'IZZ
m
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
REMINGTON
l UMC
dgf
44 Calibre
1
m
l
fdfd
fd
Remington-UMC
.44 Remington
Remington-UMC
.44 W.C.F.
Allows eleven shots— as slowly or as
fast as you like. Your hand on the sliding
forearm controls the action, ejecting at the
side and reloading with each backward and
forward motion. Handy and fast in the field.
The solid-breech, hammerless Remington-UMC con-
struction protects all moving parts —protects the
shooter, too.
Like the well-known Remington-UMC. 22 Repeater,
it has a simple take-down: and cleans from the breech.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686 Melbourne
For sale by leading! dealers everywhere
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian,
fd
CONCERNING A COMMON COMPLAINT.
Of all common ailments perhaps Constipation is the one most fruitful of
ill-health and a potent cause of disease in a variety of forms. Too fre-
quently neglected (especially by women) it may result in grave conse-
quences, and all who suffer from it in any degree should set about
establishing a permanent cure without delay. Failure of the bowels to
act properly results in poisonous accumulations, impure blood, sluggish
liver, and i great number of disorders such as headaches, nervous debility,
anaemia, loss of energy, and even diseases of a chronic and dangerous
nature. If you are troubled with this really serious complaint do not
regard it as a light matter, and remember that the cure may be surely
and speedily effected by means of
BEECHAMS
pats
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1£(56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
1/I}, 2/9 & 4/6. Made in England.
fd
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
The cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts llko a charm In
Ado lINU a viiai •*» mi
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
m
crs
Ml
m
Kirchner’s Patent band Saw
BUILDERS, CABINET MAKERS & JOINERS
If you wish to INCREASE YOUR PROFITS instal
KIRCHNER’S High-Speed
Woodworking Machines.
They are reliable, they give satisfaction. Send for
Catalogue, or ask their Representative to call on you.
Our many years’ experience is free at your disposal. .
Save the Middleman’s Commission by dealing direct
with the Manufacturers,
KIRCHNER 8 CO., 32 Market Street, Sydney.
paqtt OR ’Phone City 7091.
fd
Every condition of deafness or defec-
tive hearing is being helped and cured
by Wilson's Common-Sehse Ear
Drums. If you suffer from Catarrhal
Deafness, Relaxed or Sunken
Drums, Thickened Drums,
Roaring and Hissing Sounds,
Perforated or Partially De-
stroyed Drums, Drums wholly
Destroyed, Discharge from
Ears, use the order form
below and get relief at
once. No matter how long-
standing the case may be,
there is hope of good hearing
for all the afflicted deaf.
ď
THE DRUM
<N POSITION
The Common-Sense Ear Drums are made of
soft, sensitised material, comfortable and safe
to wear. They are out of sight when worn,
and easily adjusted by wearer.
The total cost is £l. Order to-day.
ORDER FORM.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit, containing a paij
of Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
Name
Address *
NOTE. —Send Money Order or Postal Note. If
a Banknote or Sovereign is sent, you must regis-
ter it. t 2
W BITING to the agent
entrusted with the
purchasing of the
stores for the forthcoming
Imperial Trans-Antarctic
Expedition, Sir Ernest
Shackleton uses these
words: —
“The question
of the concen-
trated beef sup-
ply is most im-
portant—
it must be
Bovril.”
Men who trust
their lives to
their food take
no risks, and Sir
Ernest Shackle-
ton, planning
this expedition
with as intimate
a knowledge of
stores as of ice
and snow, has
recognised the
scientifically
proved value of
Bovril.
All folk who know
what is good when they
taste, should at once taste
Birds
the Perfect CUSTARD. f
Its delicious flavor and creamy
richness are simply a revelation!
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.—A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address, by
W. C. Douglass, S 3, Liverpool Street, Sydney.


PERTUSSIN
#
s
SaiHM!
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING COUGH
COUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Can be obtained at all Chemists.
THE FAMILY BEVERAGE
V:
I
/
r
&
C;
SSs,
•*vc
'-9
.
5^
£
t«5«
I
3
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
□
u
ismi
i'/
□
D
IT HAS
Medicinal
Virtues
The
Importance
of
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
ca r e^i s ®h° wn ? n the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in manv cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of' your
engine, why not make certain that it is hot wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficienev of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by 'the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout With
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W, and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples. 1
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
*
mm
82 Pitt Strict, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
f
DODGE
HANGERS and BEARINGS
will help you to eliminate those expensive power losses in your plant.
Their pleasing design, ample strength, wide adjustability, general mechanical quality, and the ease with
which they can be erected and the shafting placed in the Bearings and lined up, appeal to and have
received the endorsement of all our principal Engineers and Mill=owners.
We are Sole Agents for th.e DODGE Line,
and carry large stocKs of
'
m
Hangers, Self-oiling' Bearing's, Plummer BlocKs, Collars, Coupling's, and Dodge Independence
Wood Split Pulleys.
Our Catalogue. “Power Transmission Appliances,” is available.
K
O
(n
• 9
Engineers (EL Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
fd
“THE KEYSTONE”
Traction and Non-Traction.
NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS. STOCKS KEPT.
4
SEND FOR PARTICULARS TO THE SOLE AGENTS-
mm
m
"A/
»«
m
sltiS
yr,
fa
>«
0
J 5
Friction or Cog Hoist.
Fastest and Most Economical
Driller Made.
■
B
,-'V
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
fd
