

-the Whisky of Sterling Value
JtC* Car* S
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
• MONT BE P1ETE D &l Cg
Lip
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9320.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
159 George Street West, Sydney,
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
PiHßinn
3
m
gar
COMWFftOftl CHAMBiRS M J/4 *i*r HOWt DE P»ETC OCPOSIT mwiSTMEMT CtT
SOBAnX.
—*BRs—
fiadley’3 OrientJjotel.
Richardson's
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
br
Bottle, Case or
Price.
rrmiii
“PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
CHUBB'S
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
L
ñ
for INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded. 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
PaCmttfjoSxL Jy/tfS
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWH RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
ń
ņ
ň
ŉ
ŋ
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
IN
EVERY WAY,
n
MALTHOID
“Not the same as other*.”
White Malthoid Roofs
are dotting the countryside now—getting more numerous every day.
Can’t help but do so. They’re so satisfactory. They have all the
requisite points of a perfect roofing. They are waterproof, weatherproof,
fumeproof, and long wearing. They are easy to lay, and freight on the
Malthoid is little. May w x e send you Samples and Booklets?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO CHALUS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
Manufactur
of AMIWUD.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
AGENCIES EVERYWHERE.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL
S . V. Q
QUEEN OF STATES”
CHOICE |B f y
Bacon and
Telegraphic Address—BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption, phunp st., Sydney, and ««<«—
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1803.]
[Thursday, September 3, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CHEAP READING
3/6 Novels for 1/6 per
'vol< t postage 3d. extra.
Beerbohm’s Zuleika Dobson, Bennett’s The Regent, Childs’ Jim Hands, Danby’s Concert Pitch, Dehan s
Between Two Thieves, Dudeney’s Runaway Ring, Parnol’s Amateur Gentleman, Foxs Heart oi the Hills,
Glasgow’s Virginia, Harrison’s V.V.’s Eyes, Hine’s April Panhasard, Holmes’s Twinkle, Lockes Hella Maris,
McAulay’s Beggars and Scorners, Maxwell’s Devil’s Garden, Mordaunt’s Lu of the Ranges, Phayre's Love o
the Skies, Pryce’s Christopher, Reeves’ Reward of Virtue, Ryce’s Mrs. Drummond’s Vocation Sedgwick s
Tante, Sinclair’s Combined Maze, Stevens’ Sarah Eden, Tarkington’s The Flirt, Thurston s Antagonists,
Vachell’s Blinds Down, Young’s Miles Calthorpe, 1.D.8.
THIS IS ONLY A SELECTION. WRITE FOR FULL LIST.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY LTD., 23* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth, as a focal or starting point.
The mouth being the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic known, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Larynx or
organ of voice.
The Trachea or
windpipe.
• 1
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I). A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOU JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere. Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices ’frequently for prolonged periods.” [4
The Red Page
Dunsany Drama
In Lord Dunsany’s Five Plays (Grant
llichards) the Australian reader is intro-
duced to a strange new force in the Irish
drama. Dunsany has an extraordinarily
procreative imagination; his humor is of
the grimmest; his plots are wildly, almost
insanely, original; and in his climaxes he
attains either a captivating irony or a tre-
mendous horror. In brief, Dunsany has a
mind as original as that of Shaw, a dramatic
sense as sure, a humor as coruscating. But
his range is more limited, the plangent
modernity of Shaw is missing. His plays
are, in bulk, slight things, three of the pre-
sent collection being one-act plays.
“The GoUs of the Mountain,” a drama in
three little acts, tells of seven beggars who
come to the city of Kongros and pretend
that they are the seven green jade gods on
the mountains. The citizens’ doubts of their
divinity are cunningly removed by the mas-
terly strategy of Agmar, a super-beggar.
Seven thrones are provided for the city’s
new gods, and the hungry beggars feast.
But there are still unbelievers in the city,
and these send men to see if the jade gods
are still in the mountains. The expedition
returns, but with an astonishing repprt: the
gods are not on their shrines in the moun-
tains ! The citizens’ last doubts vanish, and
the beggars congratulate themselves on their
unexpected luck. But then come rumors of
strange appearances in the desert. And the
beggars, though frightened by this portent,
prepare to welcome the dancing girls. They
hear their approaching footsteps, but they
sound strangely heavy. The beggars are
aware of something horrible coming. And
it comes:—
(The stony boots come on. Enter in
single file a procession of seven green men,
even hands and faces are green; they wear
green-stone sandals; they walk with knees
extremely wide apart, as having sat cross-
legged for centuries; their right arms and
right forefingers point upwards, right elbows
resting on left hands; they stoop grotesquely.
They pass in front of the seven beggars, note
in terrified attitudes... .The leading green
thing points his forefinger at the lantern —
the flame turns green. Then he points one
by one at each of the seven beggars. As he
does this each beggar in his turn gathers
himself back on to his throne and crosses
his legs, his right arm goes stiffly upwards
with forefinger erect, and a staring look of
horror comes into his eyes. In this attitude
the beggars sit motionless while a green light
falls upon their faces. The gods go out.
Presently enter the citizens. One touches a
beggar's arm and then another's.)
Citizen : They are cold; thev have turned
to stone.
(All abase themselves, foreheads to the floor.)
One : We have doubted them. They have
turned to stone because we have doubted
them.
Another: They were the true gods.
All : They were the true gods.
Jt
“The Golden Doom” is an ingenious
satire. Outside the king’s great door in
Zericon the sentries keep guard, for it is
death to touch the king’s great door. Two
children enter. The boy wants to see the
king to pray for a hoop; but the king not
being visible, he prays instead to the king’s
door. The sentries move off and “eat bash
—that wholly forgotten drug, bash”; and
the children play undisturbed. The girl has
made up a little childish verse. The boy
proudly writes the poem on the iron door
with a lump of gold. The sentries return
and shoo them off. Then the king’s spy
notices the writing on the door and sum-
mons the king. The king and his officers
are perturbed. What doom does this mys-
teriously written verse portend? The
prophets are summoned to interpret the
writing. The chief explains it as a warning
to the king to humble himself before the
gods. The king offers to sacrifice a boy and
a girl to the stars ; and orders a spy to fetch
the necessary victims. The chief prophet,
however, advises a greater sacrifice, the pride
of the king. So the king humbly leaves his
crown and his sceptre by the iron door, with
the hope that the god who wrote the warn-
ing will accept them and spare the city.
Then the Court departs. To the deserted
door the little boy comes for the answer to
his prayer for a hoop. When he sees the
king’s crown there he utters a satisfied
“Oh !” He takes it up and puts it .on the
ground, and, beating it before him with the
sceptre, goes out by the way that he entered.
On his return the king, finding the crown
and sceptre gone, complacently remarks:
“The stars are satisfied.”
The scene in “King Argimenes and the
Unknown Warrior” is set on the slave-fields
of King Darniak, “a long time ago.” King
Argimenes, captured and enslaved by Dar-
niak, is sitting on the ground, ragged and
dirty, gnawing a bone. Other slaves are eat-
ing raw cabbage leaves.
Argimenes : This is a good bone ; there is
juice in this bone.
Zarb : I wish I were you, Argimenes.
Argimenes : I am not to be envied any
longer. I have eaten up my bone.
Zarb : I wish I were you because you have
been a king
Argimenes : It is very terrible to have been
a king
Zarb : Hush, and I will tell you a secret.
The king’s great dog is ill and like to die.
They will throw him to us. We shall have
beautiful bones then.
Argimf.nes : Ah! 80ne5.... But will they
throw him to us'? Will so honorable a brute
as the king’s dog be thrown to u5?....Te1l
me more of the king’s dog. Are there big
bones on him?
From these wild hopes of bones Argimenes
is wakened by the discovery in the earth of
the sword of an unknown warrior. In-
stantly he remembers his wrongs.
“Three years ago to-morrow King Dar-
niak spat, at me, having taken my kingdom
from me. Three times in that year I was
flogged with 12 stripes, with 17 stripes, and
with 20 stripes. A year and 11 months ago,
come Moon’s Day, the king's overseer struck
mo in the face, and nine times in that year
he called me dog.” Every stripe is imprinted
on his memory. He recites his list of in-
juries until lie comes to : “This year the roof
of the slave sty has fallen in and King Dar-
niak will not repair it. Five weeks ago one
of his queens laughed at me as she came
across the slgve-fields.” And. seizing his
opportunity when the slave guards are play-
ing dice, Argimenes steals forth to slay them
and seize their swords. The other slaves
wait and watch.
(Then from their lips and■ from others
farther off goes up a long , deep "Oh!” It
is like the sound that goes up from the grand-
stand when a horse falls at a fence, or in
England like the first exclamation of the
croivd at a great cricket match when a man
is caught in the slips. Curtain.)
The slaves capture the armory and the
palace, as, indeed, they could not fail to do,
led by Argimenes wielding the sword of the
unknown warrior. After the defeat of the
courtiers Argimenes mounts the vacant
throne, and to him there enters running the
servant of King Darniak’s dog. Though
startled by the sight of the new king, he
announces his news: the dog is dead.
Argimenes and His Men (savagely and
hungrily) : Bones!
Argimenes (remembering suddenly what
has happened and where he is): Let him be
buried with the late king.
Zarb (in a voice of protest): Majesty!
That is the end of this delicate tragedy of
bones.
“The Lost v Silk Hat” is, after this, dis-
concertingly modern. A “faultlessly
dressed” young man stands on a fashionable
doorstep, hatless. He has quarrelled with a
lady inside, and daren’t return for his hat.
His efforts to commandeer various passers-
by to get his tile back, and their justifiable
suspicions of his motives, make an excellent
comedy.
But for sheer brilliance of imagination
“The Glittering Gate” stands out even in
this collection of fantasies. The characters
are: “Jim, lately a burglar, and Bill, lately
a burglar, both dead” ; and the scene is :
A lonely place stretvn with large black
rocks and uncorked beer-bottles, the latter in
great profusion. At back is a wall of granite
built of great slabs, and in it the gate of
Heaven, The door is of gold. Below the
lonely place is an abyss hung with stars.
The rising curtain reveals Jim wearily un-
corking a beer-bottle. Then he tilts it slowly
and with infinite care. It proves to be empty.
Faint and unpleasant laughter is heard off.
This action and the accompanying far laugh-
ter are repeated continually throughout the
play. Corked bottles are discovered lying
behind rocks, and more descend constantly,
through the air, within.reach of Jim. All
prove to be empty.
Bill, recently shot while burglaring,
enters and notices the gate. “Why, that's
the gate of Heaven. Well, well, so that’s
all right.” He looks up and up for some
time. “No. I can’t climb that wall. Why,
it’s got no top to it. Up and up it goes.”
He knocks at the door. “That isn’t for the
likes of us,” Jim interposes. Bill says,
“Why, hullo, there’s another bloke. Why,
somebody’s been hanging him.” And he
recognises him, the burglary expert who had
taught young Bill to pick locks. However,
Jim’s memory is not good. He has for-
gotten the earth, and protests that there
isn’t “anywhere else.” He even asks, “What
is Putney?” and “What are years?” He
explains that there isn’t any hope here, and
when there isn’t any hope there isn’t any
future, and when there isn’t any future
there isn’t any past. And when Bill points
out that Jim is hoping to find beer in every
bottle that he is opening—and he is opening
them all the time —Jim replies, “Yes, I hope
to see a drop of beer in one some day, but I
know I won’t. Their trick might not work
just once.” And he goes on opening bottles.
Bill, however, has brought with him his
“old nut-cracker” that used to open safes
like walnuts. He points out that the gates
are merely gold, soft as lead, and his nut-
cracker can cut through steel. He sets
busily to work, with the hope that once he
has got the gold gates open he will find his
old mother awaiting him inside.
If there’s a glass of beer to be got in
Heaven, or a dish of tripe and onions, or a
pipe of ’bacca, she’ll have them for me when
I come to her. She used to know my ways
wonderful, and what I liked It will be all
a blaze of light, and I’ll hardly know it’s her
till I get used to it. But I’ll know her
among a million angels. There weren’t none
like her on earth, and there won’t be none
like her in Heaven.”
At length the gates move.
Bill : Jim ! Jim ! I’ve opened it, Jim !
I’ve opened the gate of Heaven. Come and
help me.
Jim (looks up for a moment with open
mouth. Then he mournfully shakes his head
and goes on drawing a cork): Another one
empty.
Bill (looks down once into the abyss that
lies below the Lonely Place): Stars. Bloom-
ing great stars.
(The gates move slowly. Jim leaps up
and runs to help—they each take ® gate and
move backwards with their faces against it.)
Bill: Hullo, mother! You there? Hullo!
You there? It’s Bill, mother.
(The gates swing heavily open, revealing
empty night and stars.)
Bill (staggering and gazing into the re-
vealed empty Nothing in which far stars go
wandering): Stars. Blooming great stars.
There ain't no Heaven, Jim.
(Ever since the revelation a cruel and
violent laugh has arisen off. It increases in
volume and grows louder and louder.)
Jim: That’s like them. That’s very like
them. Yes, they’d do that.
With these excerpts before the reader,
there is no need for further criticism.
Yet the superb technique of all the plays
has not, perhaps, been sufficiently insisted
upon. Even in this brief quotation, look
how the preliminary gaze of Bill into the
Nothing beneath him, “Stars. Blooming
great stars,” accentuates the Shock of his
discovery of more stars where he had ex-
pected Heaven, his mother and celestial tripe
and onions.
Australian Novels
David Hennessey’s “prize’* novel, The
Outlaw , was poor stuff; his latest novel, A
Tail of Gold (.11 odder and Stoughton, per
George Robertson), is worse. It is the story
of a mining promoter, his wild-cats and his
villainies; and it contains the usual dead
victim of his crimes, the unearthing of a
long concealed murder, the swindling of his
shareholders, a cryptogram, the discovery of
a gold mine, and sundries. The whole is
written without any pretence of style; the
narrative leaves the reader uninterested; the
characters are shadowy; and the background,
while Australian, betrays no touch of original
observation.
Less pretentious, but more genuine, is
Marion Downes’ Flower o' the Bush (Ward,
Lock), a pretty tale of Australian sentiment,
set chiefly in the country. The heroine, as
is usual iq this sort of feminine romance, is
very beautiful; her true lover is “a splendid
specimen of Australian manhood” ; the other
man had “a rich, musical voice, and had
already broken the hearts of more girls than
he could count.” And at the end: “The man
who had so nobly endured and so heroically
struggled throughout the years, took the
woman lie loved into his long-empty arms
and held her close to his hungry, lonely heart,
pouring into her willing ears the story of his
hope.” Which is just what Marion Downes’
gently sentimental girl-readers had confi-
dently expected. A love for the bush and
some rapturous descriptions of the Aus-
tralian country differentiate this novel from
a host of similar novels turned out every
vear in England.
After The Little Blue Devil, by Dorothea
Mackellar and Ruth Bedford, one expected
something better than Two's Company
(Rivers). This is the story of a derelict
youth, called “Rags,” and his friendsliio for
the man who rescued him from a mad China-
man. The boy’s adoration for his benefactor
and the man’s slowly-awakened love for the
lad are admirably indicated. “Rags” is a
real boy, but he isn’t a little blue devil.
There is the usual pleasant girl to make the
third of the proverb; and in the end, with
the usual illness of the man as excuse for
her presence in his house, a very placid love
affair comes to its foregone conclusion. The
brilliant promise of the first novel of these
authors i* not fulfilled by their latest work—
the devil has gone out of their pens. Yet.
compared wfith the other novels mentioned
above, Two’s Company is almost clever.
c-—
Sonneteers are invited to accept the
suggestion that no reference to the war
should obtrude upon their August sonnets;
the series, now nearly completed, should deal
with permanent, not temporary, Australian
conditions. Entries should reach this page
'jy September 4.
There were 558 entries for the £lOO prize
offered by the N.S.W. Musical Association
(donated by Farmer and Co.) for the best
setting of the prize national song by Arthur
H. Adams. The winner was Theodore Tour-
rier, of Glenferrie, Vie. The six adjudicators
selected, one from each State, failed to arrive
at a majority decision ; and accordingly the
final decision devolved upon the N.S.W.
Musical Association. The song is now on
sale to the public.
Bachelor Betty . Winifred James’s best
novel, and Bernard Shaw’s early novel, An
Unsocial Socialist, are now included in
Constable’s shilling editions.
The latest batch of the “Home University
Library” includes: The Renaissance
(Edith Sichel), Religious Development
between the Old and the New Testaments
(R. H. Charles), The Alps (Arnold Lunn),
Elizabethan Literature (J. M. Robertson),
and Central and South America (W. R.
Shepherd). An extremely valuable feature
of this series is the inclusion in each volume
of a list of other volumes, already published
in this library, that deal with kindred sub-
jects.
A second edition of Ethel Castilla’s The
Australian Girl and Other Verses (Elkin
Mathews), containing simple, undistinguished
verse, the rime of “oleanders” with “jacar-
andas,” and other unobtrusive feats of verse,
lias been published. It is about as Aus-
tralian in tone as a German piano.
More Translated Poems from
the Irish
THE CRADLE OF GOLD.
I’d rock my own sweet childie to rest
In a cradle of gold on the bough of ®
willow,
To the shoheen ho! of the Wind of the West
And the lulla lo! of the blue sea billow.
Sleep, baby dear!
Sleep without fear!
Mother is here beside your pillow.
I’d put my own sweet childie to float
In a silver boat on the beautiful river,
Where a shoheen! whisper the white cascades
And a lulla lo! the green flags shiver.
Sleep, baby dear!
Sleep without fear!
Mother is here with you for ever!
Shoheen ho! to the rise and fall
Of mother's bosom, 'tis sleep has bound you!
And on, my child, what cosier nest
For rosier rest could love have found you?
Sleep, baby dear!
Sleep without fear!
Mother's tioo arms are close around you!
—Alfred Perceval Graves.
CHILL WINTER.
Nipping this winter's night, the snow drifts
by >
Below the hill the boisterous billows roar;
'Tis bitter cold to-night the mountain o’er,
Yet still the ungovernable stag bells forth
his cry ....
I, Caoilte, wakeful lie, and Dermot Bonn,
We, with keen Oscar of the footsteps fleet,
Watch the slow hours of moving night retreat,
Whilst the dread pack of hungry wolves
comes 0n....
I sit to-night amongst the ancient race,
And of the younger men but few 1 know,
Though, in the ice-bound mornings long ago,
From my firm grasp the javelin flew apace.
I thank Heaven’s King, I thank sweet
Mary’s Son,
My hand it was that silenced countless men;
They lie stretched out beneath us in the glen,
Colder than we, death-cold, lies many and
many an one.
THE RED MAN’S WIFE.
’Tis what they say,
Thy little heel fits in a shoe.
’Tis wliat they say,
Thy little mouth kisses well, too.
’Tis what they say,
Thousand loves that you leave me to rue;
That the tailor went the way
That the wife of the Red man knew.
Nine months did I spend
In a prison closed tightly and bound;
Bolts on my smalls
And a thousand locks frowning around;
But o’er the tide
I would leap with the leap of a sv:an,
Could I once set my side
By the bride of the Red-haired man.
I thought, 0 my life,
That one house between us, love, would be;
And I thought I would find
You once coaxing my child on your knee;
But now the curse of the High One
On him let it be.
And on all the band of the liars
Who put silence between you and me.
There grows a tree in the garden
With blossoms that tremble and shake,
I lay my hand on its bark
And I feel that my heart must break.
On one wish alone
My soul through the long months ran,
One little kiss
From the wife of the Red-haired man.
But the Day of Doom shall come,
And hills and harbors be rent;
A .mist shall fall on the sun
From the dark clouds heavily sent;
The sea shall be dry,
And earth under mourning and ban;
Then loud shall be the cry
For the wife of the Red-haired man.
Douglas Hyde.
From “The Poem-Book of the Gael”
(Translations from Irish Gaelic Poetry,
edited by Eleanor Hull. Chatto and
Windus).


(UGC
FOR GUNS, RIFLES & all SPORTING REQUISITES
Try Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Hollis & Sons’ D.8.8.L Gun, Top Lever, 30-
inch Twist Barrels, right modified, left full
choke bore, Greener Cross Bolt, Engine-turned
Itib, Hammers below line of sight, Bar Locks,
Pistol Grip, Walnut Stock £5/5/-
Hollis & Sons’ Special Pigeon Gun, 12-gaugo, Damas-
cus Barrels, both Choke Bore, Greener Cross Bolt,
Engine-turned Rib, Hammers below line of sight,
Chambered for 2f cases, and proved for all Nitro-
Powders, Walnut Heart Stock, Pistol Grip, neatly
engraved £lO/2/0
Scholefield’s Double-barrel Breech-loading
(,'im, 12-gauge, Twist Darrels, Left Choke,
liar Rebounding Locks, Plain Hand Stock
£3/7/«
*)• G Mayne’s Double-barrel Breechloading Gun, 12-gauge,
Twist Barrels, Back Action Locks, Hammers below line of
sight, neatly finished 77/-
No. 044 A.—-Winchester 32 Calibre Self-loading; Rifle, Model
nitOi), “Take Down,” 22-inch Round Barrel, Straight Crip,
AValnut Stock, with ladder rear sight, weight about 741 b
„ £4/18/6
IVo. 541 A . —Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1904 Model, to take 22
Calibre Short, Long or Extra Long Cartridges, Round Barrel
21 inches long, weight about 41b 24/6
As above, with Elevating Sight 25/6
l\o. 540 A.—Winchester 22 Calibre Automatic Rifle, “Take
Down,” to take Special Cartridge (22 Calibre Automatic, 20-
inch Round Barrel, Plain Trigger, Straight Grip, AValnut
Stock, weight about s|lb. —Ride?.. £4/7/6 each
Cartridges 2/9 100 ; 25/- 1000
Hollis & Sons’ Single-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Twist Barrel,
Back Action, Rebounding Lock £4/4/-
With Steel Barrel £5/12/6
II
Blocked Leather
Leg o’ Mutton Gun
Cover, 20/-, 27/-,
30/-
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Top
Lever. 12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Bar Lock, Rebounding
Locks' Snap Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Pistol Hand, Wal-
nut Stock, Hammers below line of sight £4/4/-
d. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Steel
Barrels, Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Half Pistol, Hand
Stock £4/17/0
Hollis & Sons’ Hammerless Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
Top Lever, Steel Barrels, Left Barrel Choke, Engine-turned Bib,
Greener Cross Bolt, Automatic Safe, Neatly Finished Walnut
Stock £9/10/-
£ll/10/-
W T ith Side Clips
THE illustrations of Guns on this
page are in every instance
drawn from photographs of the
actual weapon, while the prices are
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
Write for Illustrated Price
List of Guns and Rifles,
posted free on application.
W. W. Greener’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, Anson and Deeby Action, Independent
side safe, Greener’s Treble Wedge Fast Cross Bolt, 30-inch Steel Barrels, Chambered
for cases. Full Choke both barrels. Plainly iinished, without engraving, all the
value being in the barrels and action. Weight, 71b. to 7flb £l3/10/-
Small Bore Breech-
Loading Guns.
Useful to Orjchardists and others for
Destroying Vermin.
SUITABLE FOR LADIES’ USE.
The Tho'et Arms Co.’s Collector Cun,
Single-barrel, 4 10-gauge, 33/6;
Double-barrel,. 34/- and 54/-
HOLLES’ GUNS.
Single-barrel Bfieech-loading Oun,
410-gauge CoJlector, 55/-
Double-barrel Breech-loading Oun,
410-gauge Collector, Side Lever, 87/6 ;
Top Lever, £6/10/-
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breed) i-loading
Gun, The Panmure, Greener Cross Bolt, Sie-
man s Martin Steel Barrels, extended Rib, ham-
mers below line of sight, Left Barrel Choke Bore,
good Steel Rebounding Locks, Half Pistol Hand
Stock, flat Ale-cut Rib, Snap Fore-end, Walnut
Heart Stock, rutro-proof, and chambered for
2f cases £6
Hollis & Sons’ 12-gauge Double-barrel Breech-
loading Gun, The Sterling, Top Lever, Percussion
Fence, three Pin Bridle Locks, Left Barrel Choke
Bore, Half Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Deeley-edge,
Fore-end, Scroll engraved, Engine-turned Rib,
Greener Cross Bolt £7/15/-
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
The Palace, 12-gauge, Steel Barrels, Left Choke,
Bar Action Locks, Extended Rib, Greener Cross
Bolt, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Walnut Stock, highly
finished £B/8/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S
ey * o


n
ñ
TRADE MARK REG IN U. S. PAT. OFF.
AND THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Why The Halo Of Quality Surrounds
WINCHESTER
Rifle and Pistol Cartridges
Except the powder, everything that goes into Winches-
ter Cartridges is made in the Winchester plant. The
metal for the shells is kept exactly right by chemical
analysis and physical tests. The powder used must
show stability and proper pressure and velocity. The
primers must be sure fire, and each lot of finished cart-
ridges must pass a shooting test for accuracy. This
system of manufacture, coupled with the most complete
facilities and years of experience, has made Winchester
Cartridges unequalled for quality and in popularity.
The W brand cost only a few cents more a box than in-
ferior cartridges while they are dollars better. They are
MADE BY THE MAKERS OF WINCHESTER GUNS
At night
and again
in the morning
your teeth ought to have that
thorough antiseptic cleansing
which is so readily provided
by the use of
Will'll
IT \ 1
VA
If
1 kViuiiiimil
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
- -v-:_ 0-
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
■/ f■- & ji ' \ •• ; v ■<& - .
Getting Out of Bed
on the Wrong Side 1
Did your husband get out from the wrong side
of the bed this morning ? Was he irritable,
inclined to grumble at everything and act like a
bear ? Don’t always blame his temper. More often
than not a man’s irritable disposition is due to
trouble with his liver or digestion and better
than all the soothing and coaxing, is just one or two
CdcnE&oJhiu
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
Get him to take two Cockle’s Pills to-night and no matter
how depressed, irritable or out-of-sorts he felt this morning,
he will be as “ fit as a fiddle” to-morrow. Cockle’s Pills are an
invaluable corrective for all disorders of the liver or digestion ;
they are made according to the
prescription of a famous doctor
and are taken by doctors them-
selves.
ń
The “Rocket”
was the first locomotive in the world to run for
public service. This was in the year 1830, ex-
actly 30 years after Dr. Cockle began prescribing
his valuable antibilious pill, which brought him
an enormous practice and world-wide fame.
COCKLE’S PILLS
Of Chemists throughout
the World. Prices in
England, i /iJ & 2/9 a box
ņ
I Can Give
You Health
IF YOU WILL TAKE
VITAD ATI O
The MEDICINE that cured me of HYDATIDS when all else had failed ;
I then purchased the SECRET of the REMEDY.
You need suffer no longer, VITADATIO Is a Tonic, Blood Builder, and
Nerve Restorer. It Cures :
NERVOUS DEBILITY, by bracing the
nerves.
NEURASTHENIA, by clearing out
nerve poison.
CONSTIPATION, by cleansing the
system.
LIVERISHNESS, by rousing the
liver.
TUMORS and GROWTHS, by destroy-
ing the germs.
DYSPEPSIA, by toning the stomach.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM. SCIATICA,
by dissolving and expelling ex-
cessive uric acid. _ , .
GRAVEL and STONE, by flushing
the kidneys.
SKIN AILMENTS, by purifying the
blood. . .
DEPRESSION, by invigorating the
system.
S. A. PALMER
Sold by Chemists and Stores. Write
for Free Advice and Tes.irhonials.
439 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GU,
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modi ec . FNT
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED AN EXCELLLJNI
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN choke and rnodifiedpStee
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMERS FRIEND. P ‘ . nl
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE,
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH S FAVOR . -j
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent e -l - ‘holiday
fefs/T’ ° r Shot CartrklSeS for WrdS ‘
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunitioni in _ the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


Benger*s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever.
V
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
♦
2
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder,
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining how Benger’s Food ‘assists Nature'
for Invalids and Convalescents, post f.ee from
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER,Eng;
Branch Offics :
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 92, William St. SYDNEY (N.S.W.) U 7, Pitt St.
Canadian si gents —Nat ; o al Drug & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34, St.
*75 A Gabriel St., MONTREAL, andbranchesthroughout CANADA.
Are you among those who
reason in this fashion:
“ All this talk about * Acid-
Mouth’ may be all right—
but it dosen’t apply to me.
I haven’t got ‘Acid-Mouth,’
I take scrupulous care of
my teeth.”
Let us put this question to
you : “ How do you know
you aren’t among the 19
out of every 20 who do
have ‘ Acid-Mouth?’ Have
you tried the ‘ Acid-Mouth
test ?’
P€B€CO
TOOTH PASTE
“ If you want to have the best chance
in the world to keep your teeth for
life —use Pebeco Tooth Paste.”
Pebeco Tooth Paste does all that
ordinary dentifrices do —cleans, whitens
and polishes teeth beautifully. In
addition it stops 95 per cent, of all
tooth-decay by neutralizing “Acid-
Mouth.”
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of Acid-mouth. Of
all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd.,Lit. CollinsSt
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston —“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
A London
ň
te?
NureJPß
Kerr
I
m
VsaSSu/i
olonew!s and Oay^HospitaJs.LONDON.writ
July 9th, 1913.
Dear Sirs, —I am please 1 to bear testimony to the merits of your “Bonning-
ton’s Irish Moss,” which, personally, I have proved to be a valuable and safe
remedy for all bronchial an 1 throat affections.
I have never failed to r commend it to my patients and friends, in coughs
and colds, as I deem it a most valuable preparation. (Ssrd.) NURSE KERR.
&JI
&
SECRET CURE
DRUNKENNESS
Just add a little GOLDEN SPECIFIC to the drunkard’s tea or food at meal times
and he will soon be freed from the drink curse without knowing the cause. This
treatment can easily be given without the patient’s knowledge, and is guaranteed
harmless. Cures some cases in a few days. It makes the erstwhile drunkard
absolutely hate alcoholic drink. To prove its value a FREE SAM P LE, book
and testimonials will be sent on receipt of 2d. stamp. Address in full to . .
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B 2015, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
A CHARMING FIGURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
The lack of a well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
of four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers..-. Are your
cheeks sunken and hollow? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thin and scrawny? And is your chest flat
and your bosom undeveloped? Do your shoulder-blades and the “salt-
cellars” that form at your throat make evening dress almost a tragedy?
Are you so thin that your clothes merely hang on you ?
MRS. V. GRAHAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:—
“Your treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank
Dr. FALXIERE’S FLESH-FOOD for not only restoring
my health, but for building up my figure and develop-
ing my bust to my entire satisfaction. lam better in
every way from its use, and it did exactly what you
w/,
V
iaS
claimed it would from its use, and even more quickly than you statert.”
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches, and the gain in
actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases—has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here, but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
let us send you a free trial sample.
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“LOVELY WOMAN.” FLESH-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered and free from observation. AVrite at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buy because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FAIXIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [1822£
ŉ
l roar/, tme-
©
The
) New Way
Cash’s Woven Names
AVOjD the inconvenient pen and ink method and mark your'
linen and clothing (handkerchiefs, shirts especially) by using
CASH’S Names. These names or initials are woven in Turkey Red
Lettering (several styles) on Fine Cambric.tape. They
NEVER come off—NEVER wash out—NEVER fade.
Obtainable ALL DRAPERS AND CLOTHIERS.
Ask for CASH'S—the name* on the box. Write for
Your Name
iSamples to J. & J. Cash Ltd.
b 46-250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne!
M
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Mr. It. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.SAV.,
writes:—
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the coih-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and fee] fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE'TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
INSCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly —an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at,home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet _ their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fall In!
Twenty thousand of you thronging
With the first crusaders’ zeal
To assuage a splendid longing
Where the flashing squadrons wheel;
With your virgin colors streaming
And your records white and true,
Know, in wakeful hour or dreaming,
That we march, in thought, with you.
Now the long strife lies before you;
And the long wait is with us;
May the gods of Fate restore you
From the dark and perilous.
Though our tears be near upspringing
(Those hot tears that sear the heart),
Hear Australia’s cheers far-ringing
As the fall-in bugles start.
So. good-bye, may luck stand by you ;
Fare-you-well, you chaps of ours;
Wheresoever they may hie you—
In the grim or lonely hours—
Think of us, the mates behind you,
’Way out-hack, or in the throng,
And of us, whose tresses bind you—•
Be straight wire and —well, so-loug.
But, when all is fought and finished,
When you’ve done the best you can,
With your honor undiminished
In the sight of fellow man,
We will greet you bravely, brothers!
Aye, the thunder of our cheers
As a Nation’s sign to others,
Will go rolling down the years !
N.S.W.
COMBINED ACTION.
The Answered Prayers.
Prayers for success in the war have been offered
up in the principal European capitals.— Press item.
The Frenchman prayed: “Lord, smite Berlin,
And make her people wiser;
Let Gallia score a noble win
And castigate the Kaiser!”
The Russian bowed: “Almighty Lord,
Let Austria’s proud pavilions
In dust be laid, break thou her sword
And bruise her battling millions.”
The German bent: “Before Thy shrine
We beg Thee aid Thy henchman;
Lend him thy glorious arm divine
To slay the brawling Frenchman.”
Cried Austria’s host: “To left and right
Rise Frank and Slav intriguer;
Lord, mow them with thine arm of might,
And lop them in their leaguer.”
The Briton prayed: “O, Thou of old
That drav’st the hosts of Midiau,
Make Thou Thy Chosen stark and hold,
And nerve the arm of Gideon!” •
Pled Belgium: “We be brave but few,
And so we do implore Thee
Wipe out the Teuton —as the dew
Of morning melts before Thee!”
From Balkan hillsides rose the prayer:
“Oh, sanctify our sabre;
Make Thou the land a bloody lair
And erush our nearest neighbor!”
The Voice Supernal:—
“Long have ye crijd reproachfully :
‘Thou heedest not petitions,’
But now when all at last agree
I right My past omissions.
“Go, Michael, loose the dogs of war;
Let all the waters redden ;
Let carnage rule on every shore,
And give them Armageddon !”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
The Overlanders.
With youth and gladness in the boat
By happy summer set afloat,
We drifted past the river’s lip
Where roses trailed their blooms to dip:
The soft stream bore us far away,
We plucked a flower, but could not stay.
With pride and manhood riding strong
We broke a lance with shame and wrong,
The stricken field with wreck was piled,
But fortune on our valor smiled :
Then at the limits of the day
New trumpets blared —-we could not stay.
Amid the happy leaves of spring
We heard the birds awake to sing,
We longed to rest in that green shade
The bending boughs above us made,
But richer woodlands sunward lay.
They lured us on. We could not stay.
We tasted of the feast and wine
’Mid flashing wit and lamps asliine,
We sang our song, we made our jest,
Then parted on a newer quest;
The lights and music all were gay,
We pledged our friends but could not stay.
* * * *
We reached a desert hoar with sand,
The sun-worn limit of the land ;
Before our eyes we saw outspread
Wide waters in the sunset red,
But as we neared their wave the grey,
Hot desert folded them away.
We saw a light that like a star
Burned on a mountain high and far,
Beyond the crags the eagles sweep.
We followed it from steep to steep,
Till in the yellow dawn of day
It faded like our dreams away.
Forlorn we wander through the land.
A palmer’s staff in every hand ;
The deeds we wrought, the lips we kist
Are shadowed in a falling mist.
We cannot pause, we cannot stay,
'Twere death to rest with yesterday.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


Electric Light can be had in EVERY Country Home
-
,
Independent of Town Supplies or Power Stations. The “Lister-
Bruston” Automatic Electric Lighting Plant, as illus-
trated complete, will generate the Electricity. There is no heed to be
an Engineer to have one. Once installed you simply snap the Light
Switch and the
Engine and
Dynamo start
themselves.
The Plant is
delivered? ready
for connecting
to your lights.
May we talk it
over with YOU
in p°vson or l>y
Post?
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. G. Watson & Co., Ltd., 279 Clarence Strrot, f ydney
VlC.—Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders Street, Melbcurn i
QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALlA—Clutterbuck Bros., Adelaide.
ŋ
Adds—Multiplies—Subtracts—Divides
in Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings,
or in Decimal Currency.
This is the only practical combination of
an Adding Machine and a Calculating
Machine made, and is to-da) to the
bookkeeper what the typewriter is
to the correspondent.
You know that time costs you
money. Why waste it by allow-
ing two to eight hours to be
spent on work which can be
better done in one hour ?
f~; v-
FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.,
London, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
Australian Agents: Peacock Bros., 2H~216 Queen St., Melbourne
Write
for our
Free Book,
“Rapid Mechanical
Calculation,” and
further information.
HEALS ANY MOUND OK SOKE.
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSON'S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on 11 Singleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
pf§s
S i
V
v>
;.-5
%
ifeVt
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese is a
Public Benefit.
“ PRO BONO PUBLICO ” has not
been written on every tin of
“REX”
LUNCHEON CHEESE
but it might well have been.
It benefits digestion—a little after each meal is the maxim to observe. It benefits
the housewife by making supper and sandwiches easy to prepare.
It benefits the man, for if is nutritious and wholesome, and possesses all the good
properties of perfectly-matured, Full Cream Cheese.
Get a Tin or Jar from your Grocer to-day.
OTHER "REX” CANNED DELICACIES
(procurable at all Grocers) :
Ham Pate, ,11b. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, lib. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, l}lb. (ins,
Pigs Feet in Jelly, lib. tins,
Flinch Tongues in Jelly, tlb. tins,
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese in decorated
tins and porcelain jars,
and
“Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking pur-
poses, in lib. prints.
REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS. (Pro-
curable at all Grocers and Small
Goods Shops and Carts in Brisbane
and District and Bendigo and District
only.)
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacons ; Packers of “ Rex ”
Pure Food Products ; Makers of “ Rex ” Small Goods.
mm
.. *>,'o
rcas t
r»\V,'AV. I t&ntf*
r* i li
gms »
Sill
J
■
jSMHS!
f
(riS
m
Now is the Time for the Hose, and
’Tis the Hose that
makes the Difference
if you use a length of
WATERSHED
Red Rubber Garden Hose.
“Watershed” Hose is a faithful
production of all that experience
and highest-grade materials can do.
“WATERSHED” Hose
AUSTRALIAN MAD
and guaranteed free from any fault
in manufacture that would cause it
to burst, split, peel or kink.
Made in 60ft. coils, but cut to any
length.
(A U|
iin.x 3-ply -/9 per ft., or 30ft., fitted ready for use
or 60ft., fitted ready for use
fin. x 3-ply 1/- per ft., or 30ft., fitted ready for use
or 60ft., fitted ready for use
“Watershed” Hose is sold by all leading Storekeepers throughout Australia.
New Hose Catalogue is now ready. Sent post free on request.
24/6
45/9
32-
60/9
Our
Manufactured by
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS , . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SU LPHOLINE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Years.
SULPHOLINE
•Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—
J. PEPPER & CO , LTD , Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
n
The Willys Utility Truck
Reduces Haulage Costs
The old-time method of hauling merchandise with horses is
completely surpassed by the use of the Willys Utility Truck.
Travelling is very much faster and easier, and is absolutely free
from worry. There is no troublesome feeding, no need to be
constantly watching and whipping, never a. hitch, no matter how
rough the country—just straight, easy running. Even a careless
driver will hardly go wrong.
Manufacturers, business-men, mail contractors, carriers and men on
the land can make no better investment. It repays its cost many
times over.
The Willys has an engine of 30h.p.; speed 18 miles per hour;
transmission of selective gear type; three speeds and reverse. Simple
control spark and throttle levers on steering column; powerful hand
and foot brakes. Tyres are solid on rear and pneumatic on front
wheels. It is faultlessly constructed, by one of the world’s leading
motor-truck builders.
Price of Chassis, £4OO.
Bodies built to suit purchaser’s needs.
Full details gladly supplied free on request. Write to-day for
further particulars.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.,
Motor Garage:
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post; as a Newspaper.
Vol. 25.—N0. 1803.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1914.
I'iticK (3d.
THE ALLY THAT DIDN’T MATERIALISE.
WILHELM (chief skull gatherer): "Now, this is most unkind of Heaven, after I chose it for my ally. I shall send It an ultimatum.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for tin- White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUESCR.IHERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 11. C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific Nexvs Co., Market Street,
San. Francisco; C. IP. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal. ; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IK. E. Lenehan, 380
Z'.lth Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to I— -, 2-Id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz.,
Id., and id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1914.
THE BACKWARD VIEW.
In olden days Janus was a god in Rome,
lie had two faces, which is the sort of thing
that might happen to almost anybody, and
the month of January was named after him,
because the hindquarters of January look
back on the old year while the chest and
stomach of the month have an outlook on the
future. (Janus was no relation to the god
Terminus, who only looked one way.) The
great trouble about Janus was that, if any-
body destroyed his front countenance with
an axe or a hammer, he lost his consideration
of the future, and merely gazed in a purpose-
less fashion on the past. These vague reflec-
tions about an o.ld, valueless Latin deity who
fell into great disrepute, are inspired
by the Australian elections, which are
due this week. They are probably the
deadest set of elections on the local record.
The vote will, almost certainly, be small.
The daily papers, being filled with pages of
imaginings about the armed scrambles of
many nations, give half a column of space to
some of the biggest men and 10 lines to
secondary men. As to the multitude of
small men— Briggs and Brown and Jorkins
of the interior —it is mentioned once in a
long time, that they “also ran.” Even the
biggest men seem to have become dispirited
because they are marooned on the back page
of the morning publication. There has been
a good deal of recrimination among them as
to the events of the past—as to who really
invented the inefficient Commonwealth note
system, and the miserable and shameful
capital city of Dryberra; and the utter
incompetence of the tariff; and the
absence of a railway to Port Darwin ; and
the want of a uniform railway gauge, and a
Federal railway control, and a vigorous
immigration policy, and an intelligent decen-
tralisation policy. It is all aspersion and
discussion about'the past. The front coun-
tenance of Janus, the two-faced god, has
apparently been blown off with dynamite,
and he spends all his time looking towards
the rear.
* * * *
Of the Federal politicians whom this coun-
try distinctly remembers, Kingston (now
dead), Lyne (also dead), Deakin and
Isaacs (both retired) had the biggest out-
look on Australian affairs. The fact that
the bob-tailed end of the party which Lyne
and Isaacs and Kingston led so strenu-
ously is now in the Cook camp has no bear-
ing on the case, save that its presence there
enables Cook to demand honor for some
things with which he had no more to do
than he had with the building of the Ark.
The original Cook gang was hopeless, from
first to last. The Flsiieb party always
meant well, but it never had quite the cour-
age of its opinions. However, it is time to
proclaim a political moratorium and wipe off
the had debts and the old quarrels. A thick
black line should be drawn under the past,
and the whole business started afresh. The
god Janus should have his back countenance
knocked off—not his front one.
* * * *
Just now the biggest war on record is in
full working order. It includes Australia,
Tasmania, Maoriland, British and German
Papua, New Ireland and many other South
Sea Islands, Singapore, Hongkong, India.
New Caledonia, South Africa, Egypt and
other places adjacent to us, right down to
the penguins and the icebergs. It also in-
cludes parts of North and South America,
also Japan and Spitzbergen and the great
African Desert and the Congo Free State. It
may presently include China. If Denmark
comes in, Iceland and Greenland will be
added to the list of combatants. There is
no reason whatever to become hysterical
about the business. Hysteria never helped
anybody. Nor did beer. Still, Britain’s
prize military man has offered the suggestion
that the discussion may last for three years,
and a discussion of that length, which begins
beside the Meuse or the Rhine, may end up
beside the Brisbane River, or the Victoria,
or the Parramatta, or the Yarra. Australia
has to elect a Parliament which is expected
to last for three years, and in the ordinary
course of events that Parliament will have to
endure the beat and burden of the disturb-
ance. Tlie future has to be looked to. It
it interesting to read Bigtohn Forrest’s
declaration that he, and not Fisher, invented
the Federal note issue. But if Sydney is on
fire in 1915, who will care which of them
invented the Federal note issue?
Australia, looking to the three years which
lie ahead, is aware of a lot of things—-most
of them unpleasant. For instance, by reason
of its absurd semi-Freetrade ideas, it depends
on Germany to buy an immense proportion
of its ores and concentrates, whereas it
might, under a more sane policy, refine them
itself. As Germany can’t buy these products
now a good many of them are, for
the time being, mere profitless dirt.'
Production in many cases has ceased,
and many of the producers are out
of work. A great deal of Australia’s wool
is, for the time being, also profitless dirt,
because, under the country’s inefficient tariff,
it doesn’t manufacture much for itself, but
prefers to sell raw products to foreign fac-
tories. The German factories are inaccess-
ible, and the Belgian ones are blown out by
war, and the French ones are crippled because
the able-bodied artisans have taken up the
guns of their fathers and hurried to the front.
This means more lack of employment. The
railway-building industry is stopping for
want of foreign loans, which signifies further
diminution in the country’s aggregate job.
If Australia used up all its wool and its
ores in local factories it wouldn’t necessarily
go to pieces when the Belgian woollen fac-
tories and the German metal works are
closed. And it would have so large a popula-
tion that it could pay its way out of local
taxation or local loans, and wouldn’t see its
public works policy hung up because a dis-
turbance at the farthest end of the globe has
unset some remote money market. A tariff
scheme, or any kind of a scheme, which will
make this country independent in an indus-
trial sense, and which will so fix things that
our credit won’t break in London because our
mineral goods can’t be sold in Kaiser Wil-
liam's country, is urgently wanted. The
fact that this peaceful land is already
“up against it” because of a row one month
old and half a planet away, is a disgrace.
The reform may be called High Protection
or anything else. \Vhatever it is called it is
of far more importance than columns of back-
talk about the man who first discovered a
semblance of water in the Cotter River.
Even the shouts of Cook and Hughes
as to which first aoproved or disapproved of
the Baby Bon'is belong to the past.
* * * *
It is advisable, in war time, to hope for
the best and' to prepare for the worst. It is
important to economise the gold reserve, and
that can’t be done if gold is pouring out to
pay for imports. The alternative is to
import more good, white citizens and start
more manufactures. But manufacturers
can’t be expected to build up new
industries if these industries are to
be mere stopgaps, and to be dis-
mantled as soon as the Germans and Aus-
trians are ready to supply us again. Fur-
thermore, the gold reserve may be conserved
by a larger use of Federal notes. The Aus-
tralian Government is so completely unin-
terested in its paper issue that even the
Commonwealth Bank only holds about
£40,000 worth of them, and they are almost
as hard to get as hens’ teeth. And
there is great need for the Common-
wealth to devise some method of sup-
pressing the foreign loan habits of the
States. The war may be a short affair or
a long affair. On the principle of hoping
for the best and preparing for the worst
this is hardly a time to pawn the remains
of our credit for culverts and small sun-
dries of that sort, which should always
have been paid for out of revenue. Nor is
it a time to spend expensive loan money on
railways which vary in gauge from 2ft. to
sft. 3in. For the carriage of people and
vegetables and sundries, the difference
between a uniform railway gauge and a
variegated one is quite as great as the
difference between a Mauser rifle and an
old Brown Bess.^
The past is always dead, but just now it
is a little deader than usual. It is hereby
suggested that during the remaining day or
two of the electoral campaign a brick shall
be thrown at the candidate. Liberal or
Labor, who devotes himself wholly to
explaining what ought to have been done
late in 1905, and that all possible support
shall be given to the man who has some
sensible and strenuous idea as to what ought
to be done early in 1915. The trouble is
that so many politicians have to take refuge
in the past because they have no idea what
to do about the future.
[James Edmond, 214 George-strect, Sydney.]
HOW SOCIALISM IS BEFRIENDED
BY ITS ENEMIES.
Tiie most effective proselytising work on
behalf of Socialistic legislation is not done
by the Socialists. The responsible parties
are more often those who dread Socialism
most. Wages Boards, Arbitration Courts,
National Insurance and Old Age Tension
schemes have been largely the outcome of the
average master’s short-sighted reluctance 10
do the fair thing by his men. If Sydney
presently achieves a Socialistic gas supply
the extortionate charges of the A. G. Co.,
and the rotten quality of the illuminant
which it purveys, will be more to blame than
the blitlierings of a thousand Domain orators.
When Melbourne follows Sydney’s example,
and goes in for Socialistic trams, it will bo
due, not to leading articles in the Labor
papers, but to the fact that the public con-
cerned has grown tired of paying through the
nose for an ancient cable and a disreputable
‘“dummy.” The latest to step into the politi-
cal arena and put up a convincing plea for
a fresh Socialistic departure is the local In-
surance Trust. The insurance cos. of Aus-
tralia have done better service during the
past month for the political cause which
most of them, presumably, hate than all the
orators of the Fjktier party put together,
* * * *
Consider, first, the commercial and indus-
trial position of the Commonwealth. Being
a low-tariff country, it depends on overseas
nations for many of its necessaries, and it
sends away the greater part of its wool,
hides and the like for manufacture abroad.
It is a depressing fact that the business life
of the community depends on foreign trade —
on the power to import, finished goods and to
export raw materials. Any prolonged check
on these two great trade rivers inwards and
outwards, under existing circumstances, must
mean an unemployment problem which all
the efforts of all this country’s multitudinous
Governments would be powerless to handle.
That that check was not imposed the other
day is in no sense the fault of the local
insurance cos., on whom the vast majority of
exporters and importers have been accustomed
to rely for supnort in the carrying on of their
businesses. The rate fixed by the Insurance
Trust as one which is bound to give a profit-
able return, in normal times, has worked out,
hitherto, at about 7s. Od. for every £lOO
worth of goods. In most of the policies
there is an alleged war-risk proviso of an
extra shilling in the £lO0 —but that is
neither here nor there, being, apparently, a.
meaningless superfluity. When the war
began the banks and the big financial insti-
tutions generally, waded loyally in, and did
all that they could to keep the flag of busi-
ness flying and the workers of the country
in their jobs. Mine-owners were given ad-
vances by firms like Dalgety’s against their
temporarily unsaleable concentrates, on the
implied understanding that they would turn
off as few men as possible. The banks
financed holders of wool which had no imme-
diate prospect of leaving the sheds where it
was stored; and so on. The Insurance
Trust’s modest contribution to the general
welfare was to jump the rate on goods
carried in British ships, between British',
ports, from 7s. 6d. to £ 2O in the £lOO.
This at a time when about 90 per cent, of
the directors of the cos. were absorbed in
the stimulating pastime of singing “Rule
Britannia,” “Sons of the Sea,” and other
ditties expressive of confidence in the Em-
pire’s sea supremacy; when the navies of
Britain and its allies were, as a fact,
supreme on all the oceans of the world;
and when not a single British vessel had'SO
much as had its smoke-room bar injured by
the attack of an inebriated German
passenger.
* * * *
Providentially for Australia Socialism
took a hand at this stage. The British
Government hurried into the breach with a
flat rate of three guineas per £lOO, and the
trade position reverted as nearly as possible
to normal. The result to the community,
if the preposterous £2O rate had con-
tinued, may be understood when it is realised
that most of Australia’s importers and
exporters do their business on over-
drafts. Take the position of a N.S.W. im-
porter with £lOOO worth of goods paid for
in London. Assume that the goods r.re on
their way to Sydney, but that it is neces-
sary for their owner, in order to meet his
commitments, to raise money against them
locally. He goes to his bank, produces his
bill of lading and asks for (say) £7OO. The
bank is willing to do business, but it re-
quires his insurance policy. The trader’s
reply is that to get a policy at the newly-
imposed war rates on £lOOO worth of goods
(on which his own profit might not be more
than £100) would run to £200; wherefore
he has taken out no policy. Which cuts
further discussion off at the meter. And
similarly with exporters. The men who are
in a position to act as their own insurance
cos. —who owe the banks nothing, and have
sufficient capital behind them to send away
goods without financial help of any sort, are
not much more frequent in this country
than dogs with feathers. But for the
prompt action of a Government on the
other side of the earth the goods of all but
this rare class of exporting capitalists would
now be rotting on wharves and sidings, and
many thousands of the laboring classes
would be puzzling as to why they were out
of work.
* * * *
It will be said, doubtless, on behalf of the
insurance co. directors, that their first duty
was to their shareholders, and that patriotism
has nothing to do with business. The points
which The Bulletin takes in this con-
nection are (1) that in acting as they did
the directors put across their shareholders
the worst financial stroke imaginable; and
(2) that if the local insurance combine
adopts the standpoint that it is only here
to make money, then the sooner the State
steps in, as it has in the United Kingdom,
and indicates the other activities which the
public has a right to expect from such an
institution, the better for all concerned. As
regards the business aspect, the only excuse
which the cos. had for refusing to do busi-
ness except on exorbitant terms lay in the
assumption that the German fleet was going
to dominate the world’s trade routes out
of hand. To make £2O per cent, a
fair risk one ship in every five that left
Australia for England, or vice versa, would
have needed to be sunk. This paper has
never had any use for tap-room Imperial-
ism. The sort of blatant ass who habitually
bellows the National Anthem after about
three beers gets on its nerves. But it has
a very genuine respect for the British navy.
It can conceive, no greater absurdity, nor
any more flagrant insult to the greatest,
and, as most of us believe, the most efficient,
fleet that the world has known than the
assumption that it is not good enough, even
with the assistance of the French, Russian
and Japanese fleets —to make no mention
of the Australian navy —to save more
than one in five of the Empire’s
merchant ships from destruction or
capture at the hands of the Germans. For
the insurance cos. to inflict a rate like
£2O per cent, on the commercial com-
munity, because of the war, was in every
respect as though the banks had, on the
same grounds, called in their customers’ over-
drafts and demanded 20 per cent, on all fur-
ther advances. In brief, it was not only
rotten patriotism but bad business. Many
of those traders who can afford it are dis-
pensing with insurance altogether at the
present time, being satisfied with the capa-
city of the British fleet to look after thiir
property. It is safe to say that any insur-
ance firm which had had the enterprise to
charge a rate of £1 per cent, from the begin-
ning of the war —or, roughly, three times the
old rate —would have reaped a small fortune
both in cash and kudos, and with the mini-
mum of risk.
* * * *
But there is a. larger question than
the mere business one, and that con-
cerns the rights of the community in
this matter. The insurance cos. occupy a
position of trust every bit as responsible as
that of the banks. In return for the right to
earn big dividends safely in time of peace,
business men are justified in expecting that
these concerns will stand by them to a
reasonable extent when trouble comes. The
action of the Insurance Co. directors over
the war suggests that, in their opinion, they
owe no more to the State than so many petty
suburban traders. It is this spirit which
does most to foster Socialism, in so far v.s
it drives the State, in self-defence, to enter
into business ventures on its own account. If
a Socialistic insurance concern, or a number
of them, result from last month’s scandal
the shareholders of those companies whose
dividends are prejudiced will have no one
but their own directors to blame; and the
people who will applaud the new move loud-
est will not be the workers, but the folks
who ordinarily vote the anti-Socialistic
ticket.
rJohn Bede Dallet, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Armament Trusts.
A frequent gag of the moment, and an
honest article of faith with the unthinking,
is that nations are incited to war by some-
thing that is called an Armament Trust —
meaning thereby the handful of firms, some
of them really stupendous firms, which make
cannon and the like. To The Bulletin
this appears very like dry-rot —at least so
far as concerns big wars like the present
one. Steel ships and rifles, and big guns
wear out or become obsolete fast enougli
in peace time to keep the armament firms
busy and to pile up their profits. It was in
peace-time that the wonderful —not to say
deafening— Krupp firm made one of the
biggest fortunes on earth. Orders were
Exasperation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S. M. Herald, on the alleged atrocities by Germans
on non-combatant Belgians: “The "Sight of children
of his own race slaughtered in this way would
naturally drive any Frenchman or Briton to the
utmost exasperation.”
By the capped Corinthian columns of old
Greece,
Where they slew the breeding woman and
her child;
Where the sorely-tortured prisoner sought
release,
And all the laws of mercy were defiled;
They were cruel, as the winter wolf starved
lean,
As the sea-rock’s fangs ere tempest is
abated,
And the man whose babes were slaughtered
I have seen
Exasperated.
If a baby’s not your own it’s not so bad
To see it disembowelled, hacked and torn;
But if you’re British, don’t it make you
mad
To see it slain as soon as it is born,
At Brussels or at Givet or at Ghent?
An infant’s pain prevents joy unalloyed,
Your dead ottspring would excuse you if you
went
Annoyed.
If your mother’s put before a wall and shot,
If your father loses all his ears and nose,
If your sisters and your brothers —all the
lot
Are slain —in public, or beneath the rose;
If your granny dies while shrieking on the
rack,
If you see the brutal murder of your
child,
You’re extremely justified to answer back
Get wild!
If invaders burn your home about your ears,
And break the flower pots in the ferneree,
If a German makes you pay for two long
beers
Bear it; in the name of Christianitee;
But if he eoes too far, and shoots your
Or your aunt, or causes such-like mortal
loss,
Don’t be lenient with the low son of a gun
Get cross!
If a German calls before your honeymoon
Has waned, and wants to help your wife
elope;
If he hits you on the nose until you swoon,
And then proceeds to hang you by a rope ;
If you’re only French or British, you 11 be
driven
To exasperation, utter, wild and bad
Though you may for such offence be never
shriven —
Get Mad !
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


abundant, for the armies kept growing
larger, and the demand for the newest im-
plements was incessant. Yet while peace
lasted the newest implements could only be
tried at sham-fights and such-like events, and
if a Krupp gun couldn’t stand the strain
of hard warfare, or if a battleship built
by contract was shoddy at the base, there
was always a chance of the defect escaping
notice. Labor was plentiful in these piping
times, and not too expensive. Taxes
weren’t absolutely ruinous. Governments
were fairly solvent, and the cheques they
handed out for their warlike gear were
generally paid. Very often, by reason of
judicious tipping, the prices paid were
exorbitant. Then the great war came.
Labor became scarce and dear because so
many men were called away to the front.
Taxes were heaped up enormously. One
rumor says that the Krupp firm paid
£400.000 in special war contributions. The
shoddy gun burst or the shoddy ironclad
failed badly, and a fat, peaceful contractor
—men who' make guns are often as fat and
peaceful as men who make boots —had a
black mark put against his name. The
Governments began to pay in lOU’s, and a
horrible suspicion lies at the back of things
to the effect that there may be a composi-
tion of Is. in the £ on these lOU’s when
the ruins are cleaned up. The great gun-
maker knows, in times like the present, that
patriotic foreign agents are almost certainly
trying to blow up his premises. He knows
that the enemy is simply yearning to come
and take them, and chase him over the
horizon. He knows that, if his own Gov-
ernment gets sufficiently desperate, it is
capable of commandeering his whole enter-
prise and apparatus. Possibly the Grand
Duke whom he used to tip has been hurried
to the front, and a new King has arisen
who knows not Joseph, and who is being
tipped by somebody else. Finally, there is
the outstanding fact that if one set of Allies
gains a decisive victory its terms of peace
will almost certainly include a huge reduc-
tion of armaments. Then one Krupp or
another will find his occupation gone, like
Othello. No. the Armament Trusts don’t
make war. When the great smash is over
people will still want food and clothes and
houses. But one notable purpose of a gigan-
tic campaign like that of 1914 is
to knock the bottom for 100 years out of
the enormously costly system on which the
srun-making and ship-building gangs live.
Supposing Britain wipes up the sea with
Germany, and limits Germany in the future
to a dozen ships, and then Britain and
France and Italy draw a long breath and
cut down their marine resources one-half
or three-quarters ! In such a case marine con-
tractors who are now making millions may
have to bob down to the degradation of the
fruit-barrow business.
The Hohenzollerns.
“Max Adams” is severe, not to say pitiless:
Consider the family of Kaiser Bill, the degraded
being who is filling our newsDaper offices with
censors, ruining trade, littering Europe with dead,
and, in other respects, making a world’s curse of
himself. History has little to say about the Hohen-
zollerns until the beginning of the 15th cen-
tury, when Sigismun.d, head of the Holy Roman
Empire, found himself hard up. There was then a
rich landlord in Germany named Hohenzollern, to
whom S: jlsmund already owed 250,000 marks. He
borrowed another 150,000 marks, bringing the total
to 400,000, and in return he granted his creditor
the fief of Brandenburg, which is the province sur-
rounding Berlin. Thus the money-lending barons
became lords over the city which was afterwards
to be the capital of Prussia and of Germany. They
remained good bargainers and shrewd intriguers, and
were soon established as Electors or Princes of
Brandenburg. Up to the end of the 17th century
they were of not much greater account than any
other of the numerous families of German prince-
lets.
The Brandenburgers, like all German freebooters
of the time, were a half-civilised community, know-
ing nothing, of manufacture and little of agriculture.
In point of culture and refinement a navvies’ camp
of to-day could possibly give them points. Thus
they continued through most of the 17th century, in
a period when France was in a cycle of high civilisa-
tion- literary, military, political and industrial ;
when Italy had a classical gallery of great artists
and a philosophic literature; and when England had
already passed through her “spacious” Elizabethan
period, and arrived at the easy refinement of Stuart
times.
Beside these countries of established civilisation
the Brandenburger was a mere hog-raising barbarian.
In the 17th century appeared the “Great Elector”
t rederick William, a capable soldier who attacked
the waning power of Sweden, and drove the Swedes
out of the Baltic districts of Prussia. The shrewd
barbarian did more than that. He tried to civilise
his rude country as much as he could. He opened
his little realm to Dutch farmers and to persecuted
Huguenots from France. The Dutch taught the wild
natives how to till the soil with good results, and the
Frenchmen showed them the rudiments of manufac-
turing arts. The Elector himself grew the first
cauliflowers ever seen in Berlin. On the whole, the
civilising of Brandenburg had its resemblance to the
more recent Westernising of Japan. It was through
Frederick William that Brandenburg became strong
enough to make its Electors the Kings of Prussia.
The second man of mark whom the Hohenzollerns
produced was Frederick the Great. His country
was bigger than Frederick William’s, for he came
to the throne of a kingdom which had 2J million
people, whereas Brandenburg, in 1688, had been but
a petty principality with an army of 27,000 men.
Frederick was a great soldier, and though he bled his
country white in his wars, he came out victorious. In
all matters of civilisation, except war, he was only
an absorber of French ideas, and his country still
remained among the unrefined nations of Europe.
When next the Hohenzollerns were to be boosted
they did not do it for themselves. Bismarck’s was the
brain that made them dominant in the Germanic
Empire.
The Hohenzollerns and the Prussians simply
didn t count in centuries when the more westerly
peoples of Europe had an organised polity and a
high standard of culture. They are most emphatically
newly-civilised parvenus, and this is the historical
and psychological explanation of their immeasurable
arrogance to-day. The Prussian is a swaggerer with
a demeanor very similar to that of Jack Johnson
after he licked a white man in the boxing ring It
will take centuries to give the Prussian, so newly
rescued from mediaeval barbarism, the manners of
other civilised peoples. That is not to say that the
Prussian won’t be able to fight as well as the other
nations. He may even fight better. But he will be
a very unpleasant creature in the civilised world
because he is very few removes from the uncouth
barons from whom the Hoiienzollerns took their
lucky start; and if he wins this fight the swelled
head he has had as a newcomer will be more in-
flated than ever.
Price Collier, when he wrote his observant hook
on Germany and the Germans, noted that the nation
had the crudity of youth. He found the reason of
this in the newness of the present German Empire.
Berlin has a more vulgar and coarse variety of vice
and less cosmopolitan polish than any other great
white city in the world; and the gutter literature,
with the sort of obscene humor which might appeal
to an Australian black, sells better in Prussia than
anywhere else. This is all because the Brandenburger
has had comparatively few centuries in which to he
civilised, though he has had a swift accession of
power. That Europe should be subjugated by any
one nation would be a lamentable error of fate. But
that it should be subjugated by the Brandenburgers
would be a disaster to civilisation.
A Party which is in Luck.
Written by John Bede Dalley, 214
George-street, Sydney :
What with a shortage of paper—due to the fact
that this commodity is mostly imported, whereas it
should be manufactured locally—and a surplusage of
war-news, the orations of the rival political candi-
dates are not being given much notice in the press.
But so far as can be gathered the Cook party is
relying for success in the coming fray on the point that
the Fisher party ought not to oppose it. Defence
Minister Millen is understood to be working tiger-
ishly for the protection of Australia, and the idea in
Liberal circles is that anyone who tries to jump his
claim is a traitor to the Empire. References to
the urgent necessity of anti-Trust legislation, and to
the desirability of amending the Constitution are
brushed aside nowadays as indecencies, like whistling
at a funeral or smoking in church. For the past
Government to cast reflections on the Defence record
of the present one is represented as “wicked” and
“brutal,” presumably because it distracts Mr.
Millen, and tends to remove some of the spot-light
from his brow. Briefly, anything which smacks of
party warfare is condemned as unpatriotic. '
Yet the Cook party refused to even consider the
Sydney Telegraph’s scheme of a non-party election.
The position is that Fisher and his followers may
either sit down and do nothing as regards party
warfare, and thus be out of office for three years, or
they may play the conventional game of abuse and
recrimination and be condemned by every plati-
tudinarian in the country for a gang of traitors.
Neither alternative is attractive, and it says a lot
for the subtlety of the Cook party that it should
have manosuvred the enemy into such a rotten
strategical position. Had the war not come Liber-
alism might have been in a bad way. Its policy
is about the thinnest on record. The reason is
plain. The party’s metier is to oppose things. In
1903 it opposed Protection; in 1906 “Socialism”; in
1909 local Defence; in 1912 the Referenda. Experi-
ence goes to show that this party’s chances of suc-
cess are bright only in proportion as the inevitable
reforms which it is obstructing for the time being
are far away.
Liberalism would have been handicapped badly in
the present elections—-had the War not intervened —
by the fact ■that the changes to which it chiefly
objects are growing more palpably inevitable day
by day. Liberalism’s hostility to the Referenda pro-
posals of the Laborites was as effective for election-
eering purposes three years ago, as its hostility to
“conscription” and to a local fleet was in 1906. To-
day most intelligent people have come to realise
that the Constitution will soon have to be drastically
altered —so drastically as to give the Australian
Parliament power to deal with foreign Trusts, or, in
other words, to control the internal trade and com-
merce of the States. The Labor policy of elective
Ministries is coming. The S. M. Herald remarked
last week: —
It has been suggested that if the principle of the
initiative and referendum were carried it would
probably lead to Elective Ministries. There are,
indeed, many people who believe in Elective Minis-
tries. The fiscal policy is fixed, the defence policy
(in broad outline) is fixed, on most of the big
things that matter most the two parties think as
one. If there were no class legislation, and all
the members were there to do the best they could for
all the people, the way might be clear for such a
Ministry.
Preference to Unionists is an imminent certainty.
Just as Liberalism adopted Old Age Pensions and the
Arbitration principle, after a bitter fight with the
Radicals in and out of the Labor party, so it must
presently accept Preference to Unionists, opposition
to which was its chief battle-howl until a few weeks
ago. As a matter of fact, preference belongs by
rights—like Old Age Pensions and Arbitration and
every other panacea against Anarchy and Revolution
—to Liberalism or Conservatism or whatever the party
of the property-owning classes happens to be named
for the moirient. Without preference the Unions
can never - be punished, and till the Unions are made
financially liable for strikes these upheavals must
continue co paralyse industry.
Not to labor an obvious point, Liberalism was
battling for a unique assortment of dead causes
when the great War came to its rescue. All that
the party needs to do now'is to persuade the electors
that it originated local defence in the teeth of
Laborite efforts to perpetuate a volunteer army and a
subsidised navy system; that it imposed the land
and other taxation necessary to pay for the new
Defence system; that it founded the Commonwealth
Bank, despite the fractious objections of Fisher and
his myrmidons; and that it was responsible for the
Baby Bonus and the rest of the Socialistic measures
which appear to be with us for life. That done, the
partv can safely leave the rest of the campaign to
the War. A world-wide war affords a gracious relief
to a party which is staggering beneath the vast orb
of a dead policy.
The War, so Far as It Has Gone.
The historian who starts to write the tale
of the present war will have his hands full.
Picturesque scraps like Bannockburn or
Crecy or Friedland could be described. They
were big affairs of their day and generation,
still the historian could get up a tree and
command a view of things. If the responsi-
bility was too vast he could send his appren-
tice up an adjacent tree to help—to take
down the charge in shorthand and make a
brief note about the battery. Now a first-
class battle lasts for weeks, and a country
the size of Scotland would hardly hold it.
The western section of the present trouble
isn’t so stupendous as the eastern one, yet it
spreads along a line something like 200 miles
long, and the soldiers of the four nations
engaged run to some millions. There may
be 10 battles —what used.to be called battles
—on at once, and they may merge into
each other, so that it is hard to say which
is this end of the battle of Brussels and
which is that end of the battle of Nancy.
The line keeps changing its shape. The row
at one end is partly lost and the line falls
back. The disturbance at the other end is
partly won and the line shoves forward. The
disagreement in the middle is indecisive, but
the commander who has doubts (or hopes)
about the morrow may shift his position a
little, so that the line bulges in a new direc-
tion. The historian who is up a tree along
with his apprentice may see 200,000 or
000,000 men holding bitter argument, yet it
may be impossible to say whether it is a
battle or a skirmish. It may even be a
simple case of some soldiers having become
drunk and got out of hand, for when war is
conducted on so large a scale a mere casual
Saturday night pub-looting is liable to look
like a revolution or the fall of the Roman
Empire. Away at the back of things sits
a weary man with a whole world of care
on his shoulders and a small salary in his
pocket. Atlas wasn’t a patch on him. lie
may be a military genius, or he may be
simply a plodder in a uniform who has risen
by seniority. If there has been no great war
in his time he probably doesn’t know himself
whether he is a genius or a ploughman—one
whom accident has placed in charge of an
army instead of a team. He has simply got
to find out. In any case he has the joy. of
being the responsible spider in the middle of
the web, and directing by maps and tele-
graphs a campaign such as Hannibal
never dreamt of. The situation at time of
writing is peculiar for all parties—especially
the responsible spider. It is hard to see
how anybody save Kaiser William could
have blundered into it. In the west, where
Germany has made its biggest effort, the
Anglo-Franco-Belgian host has fallen back
slowly because of sheer weight of numbers.
But there has been no panic and no rout.
The German losses have always apparently
been the heavier, so the attack must grow
weaker; and the strong places of Belgium
are still untaken. On its best average the
Germans are said to have made three miles
per day on the road to Paris, and if they
ever get there the fact remains that Paris
is a fortified city which has, before now,
proved capable of standing a six months’
siege. And at the other end of Germany
the Russians, in the early stages of the war,
were stepping out at the rate of 10 miles a
day on the road to Berlin. Russia has
made the effort of its life, and put some
six million men into the field. When the
Innumerables have met with a German
fortress they have just left an army to
beseige it and hurried on. When they have
met a German force the result, up to now,
has been that the Innumerables made a
heaving motion and a gulping sound, and
the Germans were not. No doubt the Rus-
sian advance could be arrested if Germany
put a good deal more of its soul into the
business. But then the whole scheme of
the advance on Paris would have to be
abandoned —in fact, it would probably be a
case of the Anglo-Franco-Belgian army
marching for Berlin while the Russians took
the defensive. The 10 to three discrepancy
looks like being fatal. It suggests that
William backed the wrong horse at poor
odds. He has bumped up against this simnle
arithmetical problem: Supposing an in-
furiated monarch with a spiked helmet can,
by using his greatest efforts, gain three
miles a day (with luck) on the road to the
enemy’s well-defended capital: and suppos-
ing another enemy is doing 10 miles a day
on the road to his own capital—isn’t the
infuriated monarch with the spiked helmet
losing seven miles of country per day? And
what will it avail him to be conducting a
weary siege of Paris if the Cossack is drink-
ing beer in his own palace at Berlin and
scoffing in his own cathedral of Cologne?
The End of the Row.
These letters have reached The Bulletin
office. No more letters dealing with Tees-
dale Smith’s contract to build (or muddle)
the railway from Port Augusta to Kalgoor-
lie will appear. The subject is now dead.
It is a corpse. Its bones can go away and
bury themselves anyhere, or everywhere, or
all over the place. The Bulletin washes
its hands, like Pilate, the Dago, in Jeru-
salem, and disclaims all responsibility.
Letter by Randolph Bedford.
Mr. Teesdale Smith side-steps with difficulty.
He asks me to make up a syndicate of myself Bam-
ford Gardiner and Rae (who are now in their con-
stituencies preparing for the majority that will enable
them to legislate against such contracts as that
enjoyed by T. Smith aforesaid) to take a contract
for track forming the East-west line from the 122 to
the 260 miles. The mere facts that I won’t do any-
thing of the sort and that Mr. T. Smith never in-
tended that I should does not in any way dispose of
the other facts that T. Smith secured a contract
without tender or competition from a great chiffon
engineer named W. Kf.llv to move, at 4/6 and
2/6 a yard, muck which day labor and a machine
had moved for 3d. a yard. The records of W. Kelly’s
very own—or borrowed—dept of Home Affairs prove
that and cannot be made to prove anything else.
T. Smiths withdrawal of his bluff of £lOOO is very
unsatisfactory also; and is made no better because
he puts up a new bluff of holding the alleged money
“for dissatisfied senators.” T. Smith needn’t use
pick and shovel men to make banks and cuttings ; he
can generate enough of hot air to move the Pyramids
if only he is given time.
Letter by Teesdale Smith, who doesn’t
spell Bedford’s front name correctly:—
Adelaide
August 22nd 1914.
The Editor,
Sydney Bulletin.
Sir,
If you do not think it wasting too much space I
would like to reply shortly to Mr. Randolf Bed-
ford in yours of the 6th inst.
I was not aware that any Royal Commission had
been appointed, I understood the Senators had
appointed a Committee.
There was nothing wild about the offer as far as
I know but it seems to have made Mr. Randolf
Bedford somewhat if he does not know to whom
the suggestion was made I would advise him to look
up the paper as I suggested before.
The trouble with writers such as Mr. Randolf
Bedford is that they will never stick to the point or
make definite replies. I said the “Castles Machine”
could not, under any circumstances, do more than
10% of my work, if any at all, to which Mr. “R. 8.”
does not reply, and if the machine could do the work
at anything like the price stated by your Corres-
pondent, it is too silly to imagine for a moment
that the Government Officials would not have kept her
at full work. When he starts dealing with what I
was paid for my work without knowing anything
about its value, it shows that such a man will say
anything.
I might just as well say that when Mr. Bedford
gets a cheque for one of his very able stories that
whatever the payment might be it is three times its
value.
Mr. Bedford exhorts me to stick to the highly
lucrative game of muck shifting of which he evi-
dently knows nothing, and I should say he is a
much better hand at ink slinging innuendoes. He
also states that when I pick up the pen I cut myself.
May I retort that when he handles the pick he prods
himself in a vital spot.
As to my offer of £I.OOO it is open to Mr.
Randolf Bedford or any other of the labor
advocators who think they know so much about
muck shifting, personally I think they know more
about mud slinging.
Anyway the fact remains that about 2 millions of
money have been spent on the line in connection
with the day labor system, whereas a contractor would
be glad to do what has been done for about 70%.
Yours etc.
H. Teesdale Smith.
As already' mentioned, this controversy is
now cut off with an axe at the meter.
+
The Sydney Master Builders’ Association
has added itself unto the crowd of wrathful
people who are cursing the increase in prices
that followed file beginning of the mix-up in*
Europe. President Williamson figured it
thus: —
Builders’ merchants are raising prices in some
cases 20 per cent. Glass lias gone up 20 per cent.
Lead has advanced £6 per ton. Galvanised iron has
increased £2 a ton. And so on with many other
lines. Slates are up from 10 to 20 per cent., and
fencing wire has been raised £6 per ton. Merchants
have no right to make such advances on existing stock.
It is good honest logic in its humble way,
but the fact remains that we have to deal
with the Things That Are. Prices have a
habit of goipg up when the commodity is
scarce—the price of a house; the price of a
bit of land on which to build a house; the
price of the services of a master builder or
a bricklayer to create the house. The
question is: Why should glass, lead, galvan-
ised iron, slates and fencing wire become
scarce and consequently dear hereabouts be-
cause of the war, seeing that this country
hasn’t yet heard even a pea-rifle fired in
anger? Apparently it is because the old
importing gang of master builders has always
preferred to buy its goods in Germany and
pay for them with money borrowed in Eng-
land, rather than encourage local industries.
A good Protectionist tariff and a good immi-
gration policy would count for more just now
than many pages of clamor about the wicked-
ness of the importer. So far as concerns the
articles mentioned there should be no im-
porter. All the materials that the trouble is
about should be made here, thousands of
miles away from the roar of Kaiser Wil-
liam and the combustion of Belgian cities.
[P. T. Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street, Sydney.]
Dear Bulletin : One thing is sure, if all
the rest be lies: Willy Kelly prophesied
the war and the magnitude thereof in July,
1909, on the floor of Australia’s Parlia-
ment. Said he: —
I believe that before many years are passed this
land, along with other sections of the Empire, will be
engaged in the greatest struggle our race has ever
been subjected to.
But then he ran wild over what he described
as “this ultramontane idea of a separate
Australian navy.” and referred to what W.
M. Hughes had said of the Labor naval
policy, that it was “of the earth, earthy,”
(meaning, possibly, that it was not up in
the clouds, like the Dreadnought-presenta-
tion scheme). Kelly declared that he was
sorry to hear this from Hughes, because: —
We all know the type of animal that lives under
the earth. Rats live under the earth, and the rat
that deserts a ship'that is not sinking, and will not
sink if it is stood by, is not only a rat, but “ratty.”
But that yarn about the rat which was
under the earth on board ship was in the
days when Willy Kelly’s crowd cried in
the market-place, so that all men and an
outraged Heaven might hear, that Australia’s
“tin-pot fleet” was a scheme of the Labor
party to turn revolutionary guns on the
British navy. The Liberal mind knows
better now. In fact, the last time I heard
from it out of the crash of combat and the
sound of the Devil rushing over the world
with an empty boiler tied to his tail, it was
congratulating itself that it had invented
the Australian navy.—Yours, etc., John
Barr, 214 George-street, Sydney.
“Vic. S.S. Teacher” holds forth:—
“0.K.” is the blindest woman-hater on record.
He is so violently prejudiced in this respect that
his natural gifts as a special pleader are set at
naught. Of course, we find him in hilarious agree-
ment with the Vic. Public Service Commissioner’s
adverse report on the question of women teachers’
salaries. Yet that report does not touch the actual
case, and “0.K.” probably knows as much. Briefly,
the position of the women teachers is this: They are
doing equal work (class for class) with the men,
both, in rural and town schools, and are achieving
equally good resujts for most unequal pay. The
quality of the work is testified to by ex-Minister of
Education Peacock, who last session admitted in the
House that “women teachers acquit themselves as
well as the men.” The inequality of the pay is
admitted, inferentially, by the Vic. Director of
Education, who, when addressing the School Com-
mittees’ Association last September, stated that, “If
every teacher in the wayback districts was a man the
cost of education in the small schools would be
enormously increased.”
How systematically the women teachers have been
exploited during the past 20 years is shown by the
fact that until 1911 quite 75 per cent, had never
received more than £9O per annum. Incidentally,
“O.K.’s” witticism re “spinstering on a pension”
loses point, for 95 per cent, of the women teachers
have no pension rights.
It may surprise “0.K.” to learn that, before
retrenchment, women received four-fifths of the
salaries paid to men in corresponding classes, whereas
the present-day proportion is little more than half.
Also, this Department of ours pays its unclassified
teachers (its apprentices) equal pay male and female.
Which seems to suggest that it is not the principle
so much as the expense of equal pay all round, that
is objected to.
“0.K.” directs attention to the P.S.T. having pre-
pared his report not alone from local information.
What did the local information amount to? He
held a consultation with the Director of Education,
whose “Higher Education” ideals leave him neither
time nor money for the sweated primary teachers, and
a brief consultation with four representative women.
Had he been sincere in his search for Truth, he’d have
found it by visiting the schools and seeing the work
that is done by women.
However he might disparage the women teachers
in his report, the P.S.C. informed the representative
women teachers, that, in his opinion, Victorian women
teachers are more efficient than those of N. S. Wales.
Yet his consultation with the educational authorities
of N. S. Wales elicited the fact that our sisters in
Ma State (as in W.A. and M.L.) are much better
paid!
As evidence that “0.K.” is not the last word on
this subject, I may refer him to the new determina-
tion of the Vic. Commercial Clerks’ Wages Board, in


THE POLICY Or THE GOVERNMENT
1768
Estab.
Estab 1742
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OE THE PEOPLE.
A WHITE AUSTRALIA
A,, and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
ņ
rOORD & SON
V* LOHDOII.EIHCI.AND
FINEST DRY GIN
Sl old tom
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney”
which the principle of equal pay for the sexes has
been recognised. Also, to an extract from the report
of a Royal Commission on female employment in
Great Britain (which the Vic. P.S.C. is said to have
considered) : “In so far as the character, and condi-
tions of the work performed by women. approximate
to identity with the character and conditions of the
work performed by men, the pay of wqmen should
approximate to equality with that of men.”
“10-2-4”: The other day, when Germany
was making the first of its supreme efforts
to smash the rest of Europe; when the dis-
tant thunder of the guns of Armageddon
and the screams of the multitudinous dying
were searing the ears of the least imagin-
ative in this hemisphere; when Australia was
bustling round, self-respectingly eager to
lend a hand in the uproar; and when the
N. S. Wales Government was figuring out,
desolately, what it was going to do about
future loans and past commitments, also how
it could best deal with its imminent un-
employment problem, and what measures
were most advisable to prevent people from
cornering necessaries—at this stupendous
moment one Brineii upheaved himself
blandly in the N. S. Wales Assembly, and
propounded to the Secretary of Public Works
the following questions :
(1) What was the cost of dredging the new channel
from Cahill's wharf, below Belli ngen, to the new
wharf, at the town of Bellingen?
(2) How long was this work in process, and what
dredge was employed?
(3) Was the work ever completed ; and, if not, why
not?
(4) How much longer would it have taken to com-
plete the work, and at what cost?
(5) Where is the dredge which did the work, when
did it cease work, and what work has it done since
then ?
(6) When the dredging of the new channel had
been commenced, did the Bellingen Shire Council
spend nearly £IOOO in building a new wharf at
Bellingen ?
(7) Is it a fact that this wharf is quite useless, and
will remain so until the new channel is completed ?
(81 When is the dredging of the channel to be
completed, and can the matter be expedited?
He also asked searching questions about the
condition of Cowan Creek ; the progress of
work at Woolgoolga ietty; dredging opera-
tions in the South Arm of the Bellingen
River; and the state of the Nambucca River
entrance. A type like Brxner would be
seen to advantage, it seems to me, at the
ond of the world. The presence of a
Briner, calling for information about the
shoaling up of the Styx at the final
burst-up and dead finish of every-
thing should do a lot to lift the prevailing
gloom. Its effect would be to lend a rare,
and not altogether undesirable, touch of
comedy to the proceedings.
The Massey Government of Maoriland has
also become excited over the high price of
food. Premier Massey’s complaint is that
foreign firms have been buying meat in
Maoriland at almost any imaginable figure,
and thus skying the cost of the local chop.
Therefore he pronoses to do something to
prevent the export of meat at high prices,
and the consequent skying of the value of
the local chop. It is really difficult to see
what the wretched man has to complain
about. He ought to go in for dance and
song, and sound the glad timbrel. He and
his gang have pawned Maoriland in ?such a
wonderful fashion to foreign loan-mongers
that it has to export its meat and butter
and wheat wholesale to pay the interest,
whether Maoriland 4s starving or not.
Otherwise the Dominion will go bankrupt.
If any foreign Trust will put up the price
of meat so high that one leg of mutton will
pay a year’s interest on £IOO instead of a
whole.. bullock being required, the local
people may have to pay more for their food,
but they will have to pay less for their
interest. Beggars cannot be choosers. Nor
can borrowers. This is the worst time in
history for any of these pawned countries to
begin complaining about the high price of
the food they export.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
“F.L. J.”: There is hardly a foot of
ground in Australia and Tasmania that
does not know the foot of the R.C. priest
from All Hallows Foreign Missionary Col-
lege, Dublin. The All Hallows priest is a
distinct character in Australia. He has
been generally a boy from some of the rural
parts of Ireland, and his accent shows un-
mistakably his nationality. The All Hal-
lows man has not, as a rule, been distin-
guished by learning or brilliancy, but he
has always been a genial, good sort, who
made himself generally popular. Now, things
are being changed. The country boy who
used to do his three years in the old college
is to become a man with a degree from the
National University of Ireland. A few
weeks ago there was an ordination at All
Hallows, when Bishop Dwyer, of Maitland
(N.S.W.), and Bishop Carroll, of Lismore
(N.S.W.). were present and made speeches,
from which it appeared that it was at the
instance of Australian bishops that the
change is being made.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Gill in the Taxi”
Royal “Du Carry”
Adelphi “A Soldier’s Wedding.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Palace “Mr. Wu”
National Theatre Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Lyceum Spencer's Pictures
Olympia West's Pictures
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love”
King's “Bunty Pulls the Strings”
Royal “The Scarlet Pimpernel”
Princess’s “The Glad Eye”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West's Pictures
Majestic Spencer’s Pictures
Glaciarium Ice-Skating
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
♦ — :
Nellie Stewart got a deafening welcome
from the assembled worshippers at Sydney
Itoyal on Saturday night. Applause came
down’in an avalanche from the gods, and
the stalls blew up in a roar, of hand-claps,
and all was riot and gladness. If the
friendly public will only go along in masses
and do it regularly every evening, the sea-
son should break all records. “Du Barry,”
the Belasco drama of the theatrically in-
valuable French Revolution, contains the
essentials of the very successful “Sweet
Nell” —a jealous and gracefully immoral
monarch, the attractive, good-hearted lady
he retains, and the unfortunate young lover
whom he suspects and desires to squelch.
The Revolution is used to provide a howling
scaffold finish, as in “The Only Way,” and
the audience goes out sadly, treading on
its own heels and murmuring that it was a
shame for the playwright to kill her. The
name-part is full of opportunities for the
winsome Nellie, and she takes them all
sweetly in the Old Drury manner. She
acts with nearly all her old charm and viva-
city, and appears to least advantage in the
gloomy last act, which is a tactical mis-
take. But, of course, all death is a mistake.
Clarence Blakiston, who is at the top of
the long bill (47 names), makes a good-
looking Louis XV., and. comports himself
as Lewis Waller might do in similar cir-
cumstances. Lewis Willoughby, who _is as
handsome as a young actor should be, is the
unlucky soldier-lover who is thrown, hurled
or dashed into a dungeon by his jealous king
and shot at by a sentry without much vis-
ible depreciation. At times a trifle stiff
and occasionally indistinct, he is at all
times courageous and ready to face the
critics. He continued to face them on the
first night, even when his most essential
garments were falling to pieces. For the
rest of the act he was safety-pinned. John
Ford (Due de Brissac, Captain of the King’s
Guard) is one of the familiar names that
“ THE CLASH OF ARMS," AT THE
PALACE, SYDNEY.
The English hero, a prisoner of war (Cyril
Mackay), defies the Kaiser-like villain (W.
F. Grant) and his “ army ” of supers.
catch the eye in the long procession. One
Sydney daily gives him credit for playing a
stupid old soldier well. It seems to be the
sort of compliment that should have an
apology wrapped up with it. The rest of
the enormous cast may be- taken as read.
The interesting production is fairly even,
and the mounting is adequate. The inci-
dental music appears to be very involved
and tremendous —the sort of stuff that
should be explained in two vols.
Many and various are the ways of saving
the Hempire. The Millions Club motors
round town with a brass band collecting
cash and giving itself a fat advt. The
Bulletin landlady knits socks at breakfast
and makes everyone catch an early boat.
The German band plays “Rule Britannia”
outside this office three times a week. The
Sydney Adelphi is having a run of military
bellowdrama. This week it is “Under Two
Flags,” which, seeing that the Allies are
now fighting under at least seven flags,
looks like an absurd effort at economy. On
Saturday “A Soldier’s Wedding” is due.
And the Hempire that refuses to be saved
after all that is an Inconsiderate Cow.
Cinquevalli is still top dog or big gun or
boss cockie at Sydney Tivoli, and it will
require a pretty huge hound to displace
him. This week he has the support of
Hammond and Wyatt, “the original Aus-
tralian Sandow Girls” Ted Mercell, a
cheerful cuss who has brought falling down
to a fine art; the Powers, a muscular pair;
and Marco and Fanchon Woolf, freak ex-
perts in the art of bounding in the air, and
remaining up a long time, and only coming
down for meals.
The best show in Sydney at time of writ-
ing is Arthur Streeton’s collection of oil
and color pictures at the Royal Art Society’s
rooms, Pitt-street. Its only handicap is the
disturbed public mind. All shows are suffer-
ing (The Bulletin walked into the dress
circle of one of the big theatres on Monday
night and discovered one lone and solitary
citizen holding the fort), but art shows are
likely to be hard up against it. Neverthe-
less, art lovers and students who miss
Streeton’s high-class entertainment will for-
feit an uncommon pleasure.
“The Girl in the Taxi” continues to move
swiftly and profitably ahead at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. Already she has ex-
ceeded the speed limit; in fact, many a
comet has been arrested and fined for hurry-
ing at half her pace. And the comet’s tak-
ings weren’t a patch on hers.
On Saturday night at the Palace (Syd-
ney) the Beaumont Smith-Louis Meyer
management produced a tame melodrama
entitled “The Clash of Arms.” It aroused
no patrio’tic spirit. It lagged at the post
as a characterisation of nationalities until
a hurried meeting of the stewards was de-
manded, and the plot was bathetic. There
is no need to go into harrowing details. A
great frost fell upon the theatre, and the
piece was thrown into the coal-box. It
was bad luck for Beaumont Smith and his
partner. Meyer, who are good triers. To-
night “Mr. Wu,” which created so much
discussion while at the Adelphi recently,
will be revived. The Palace should suit
“Wu” excellently.
Wars break out, peoples are decimated,
armies rend each other upon a swaying
world, even the S. M. Heralp and Tele-
graph arise and throw a fiscal somersault
from Beersheba to Dan, yea, from Freetrade
to High Protection ; but the Imperial Salon
Luxe altereth not; It pursueth the even
tenor of its tango at the old address,
William-street, Sydney.
[The fiscal policy being an alleged issue of the
elections, the Electoral Act, with its mouth full of
thistles and its elongated ears brushing the flies off
itself, demands the signature of John Barr, 214
George-street, Sydney. ]
* * *
The Maniacs’ bulldogs or the Bulldog
Maniacs have returned to their padded
cell and the vacancy in the animal (four-
legged) section of the National Amphi-
theatre (Sydney) programme has been filled
by Madame Schell’s lions. Madame is stated
on the programme to be “the smallest wild-
jjeast tamer in the world,” but the way she
fias those lions fixed is a caution to man.
The public is cordially recommended to see
the turn. It is available twice a day.
except Sundays, when members of the Lions’
Union refuse to work.
It is a matter for discussion whether Aus-
tralia hasn’t had enough of the United
States language. Every . succeeding drama
that comes from N’ Yark seems to have got
the infection worse. The latest, James
Forbes’ “The Chorus Lady,” produced at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday, introduces
a slang that is composed of a mixture of
Dago and mongrel, decorated with large
blotches of awful accent. If we want any
accent we’ve got a, good virile one of our
own. And the only reason for the existence
of “The Chorus Lady” is her accent. Take
away her alarming mispronunciation of
alleged English and the personality of
Muriel Starr, and there isn’t any drama
left. Muriel Starr appears as a chorus
lady, slangy, overdressed, able to take care
of herself. Her sister wants, too, to go on
the stage; and Muriel, to save her from a
cheap, would-be seducer, takes the young-
ster from her home to the stage. But the
villain still pursues her, and has even got
her to sign “the paper.” It is therefore
necessary for Muriel to go to the villain’s
“chambers” at night. to save her sister’s
“honor.” Of course the "■sister has gone
there before her; and once again we have
the old scene, in which two women are con-
cealed about the man’s premises, and the
innocent woman comes forth to shield the
guilty. This scene is stolen straight from
Oscar Wilde, who probably stole it from
someone else, who probably stole it from
Noah. This false and theatrical situation
is cleared up in the fourth act. and that’s
all, with . the exception that Muriel dis-
covers. for the 29th time in modern drama,
that when a man and a woman play up “the
woman pays.”
* * * *
The opening scene is dull and confused,
till the arrival of the chorus lady in a cos-
tume that is the last sartorial shriek
in primary colors. The second act shows
the chorus making up and dressing in a
thick atmosphere of United States accent.
Miss Maggie Knight, as the chorus lady’s
mother, has mislaid her Irish accent, but
in the later serious passages she acts with
feeling. Mary Worth, as the weak sister,
is satisfactorily pathetic and sweet, though
she has no opportunity to display her un-
doubted comedy talent, Lincoln Plumer
-gets what he can out of the sketchy part
of Muriel’s father. Eric Maxon wears the
white silk socks of a villainous life with
distinction, though the effect of male ankles
in white silk socks is hardly aesthetic. Boyd
Irwin makes a manly hero. The ladies of
the chorus are sufficiently vivacious and
decollete, and the broad comedy of Katie
Towers helps to complete the picture. Gwen
Burroughs makes a personable show girl.
But the magnetism of Muriel Starr affords
the chief justification for the production.
This actress probably stands alone in the
theatrical world by her absolute disregard
foi her personal appearance. If it is neces-
sary, in the interests of the play, for her to
look like a dilapidated dust-bin, she does it
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Paul Cinquevalli indulges in a little after-
dinner exercise.
cheerfully, even hilariously- Here she is the
cheeky, unpleasant United States stage girl,
hard as nails, foolishly vain, eager for fight,
able to do battle, yet at heart fond of her
weak sister and rejoicing in the fight for
her “honor.” There is small scope for emo-
tional acting—the sort of thrilling, tear-
producing emotional acting that Muriel S.
has shown she can do; but in the only
chance given her —in the obviously intro-
duced “the woman pays” climax —she makes
the cheap stale statement a triumph of
theatricalism. Her successful venture into
comedy shows another facet of Muriel
Starr’s versatility. .
Adelaide hardly realised that it had so
many musical societies till they all got to-
gether on Saturday evening in the Exhibi-
tion for a “massed choir .patriotic” concert.
Mrs. Delmar Hall got it up. everybody pos-
sible crowded in to help, and the conducting
was shared by Professor Ennis, Bevan,
Winsloe Hall, Harold Davies and Christo-
pher Smith (once of the “Besses,” but now
of the local Tramways Band). Tickets
were at war-prices, but the public rolled up
well. The Royal, after being empty a few
evenings, has got busy again with Gilbert
and Sullivan, old enough to be new to this
generation; and Dorothy Vane and “The
Gondoliers” bring back a lot of pleasant
memories to the no-longer youthful. At the
Tivoli, De Dio puts up a brilliantly-staged
flying-and-floating dance turn. The sub-
terranean-fire effect, one of her best, is not
new, but other items are, and she gives a
welcome novelty to the programme. The
brothers Attila are powerful athletes, and
Stelling and Revell funny ones ; also Eugenie
Damond fiddles, and the Rich-Galvin pair
dance. Miss Gassmann produces her “picca-
ninnies” at the King’s. Most of them are
quite too old for that name, but they have
developed some good voices and dance-talent
as they grow. Bailey’s dogs still pose in un-
likely attitudes, and Le Witte has an un-
usual kind of “protean” turn. Wondergraph
and West’s are making a feature of army-
and-navy pictures, and at the latter Arthur
Adams’s new patriotic song is being Sung.
Melba has fixed up a concert in aid of the
Red Cross Society, to happen at Melbourne
Auditorium on Thursday (10thj. Iu addi-
tion to Melba’s personal contributions of
song the concert will be supported by
Maggie Stirling, Lemmone, Fred Collier,
two choirs, a full orchestra and Ellen Terry.
The box plan for guinea seats opens to-day,
purchasers of tickets at fancy prices having
been previously accommodated or ruined or
something.
A six nights’ revival of “The Forty
Thieves,” at Melbourne Her Majesty’s, is
more or less successfully filling in the blank
between the departure of the- Gilbert and
Sullivan co. and the appearance of the
“Gipsy Love” crowd next Saturday, night.
Practically little has been changed since this
great and influential publication last felt the
panto.’s pulse, the only noticeable alteration
being the accession of Miss Winnie Volt to
the tights and other garments of the principal
boy. The new boy has all the physical
requirements for the job, and displays some-
thing of the electrical energy that her name
implies, but her singing voice is yatlier
weak, and seemed in need of reinforcements
last Saturday night. As regards the other
members of the show, they are the same
as before, Brett, Lupino and Miss Harmer
attending efficiently to the comic department
what time Atholwood insists on the
tragedy of the uncle whose dreams of affiu-


G>6e OLD ORIGINAL
DANIEL
CRAWFORD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. , SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
enee come to naught. Uncles are a disaster
at all times.
' ?Jc i):
Melbourne Tivoli ha's suffered a large
inrush of fresh talent. Most conspicuous in
the flood is A 1 Rover, a saxophonist, acrobat
and eccentric dancer, with a lot to say for
himself in all departments. Dexter, a new
lightning sketcher, draws a series of cartoons
that are technically unarresting and rather
feeble in humor; and Roberts and Lester stir
the atmosphere greatly by whistling furiously
through their fingers. The act of Jerome
and Carson, however, is both finished and
clever, the somersaulting of the gentleman
on his cranium exhibiting his remarkable
indifference to that seat of learning. As for
Tom Kelly, who was held over from last
week, he is an alleged Hibernian comedian
whose style of humor is hardly in keeping
with liis high-grade Amurkan evening
clothes.
At Melbourne Bijou this week are Hartley,
the high-jumping specialist, and his vocifer-
ous lady assistant, who, without being
immoderately rough or boisterous, doesn’t
carry quiet behavior to excess. The Hughes
Musical Trio are not so gifted as Rellami,
the accordeonist, while Matilde and Elvira
are moderately fascinating Spanish dancers.
Westin, who .portrays sundry celebrities with
a variety of grease paints and a whole library
of wigs, generally puts more dignity than
likeness into Iris impersonations. His Queen
Victoria is the most convincing, and his idea
of the late President McKinley is fairly close
to accepted portraits of the man.
The dear old story of “Ben Bolt” is now
running an effusively emotional course at
West’s Palace, Melbourne. Members of the
unfair sex regard the yarn of Benjamin B.
as most weepy and affecting, and elderly
gents cannot see it through without mopping
their eyes with large bandanas. “Whither
Hatred Leads,” another item at West’s this
week, appeals-more to the unregenerate liter-
ary student who likes slirieky bellowdrama
with a dash of poison ; while “The Bingville
Fire Depot” attracts the ordinary cheerful
citizen who prefers comedy with heaps of
uproar in it.
At Melbourne Royal the last week of “A
Royal Divorce” has come rather sooner than
was expected, considering how brisk was
the demand for that sombre bellodrama when
the war began. Probably the local public
is thinking that the Battle of Waterloo was
a very small, old-fashioned affair compared
with the latest happenings in Belgium, and
is hoping that the retreat of Napoleon’s army
from Moscow will lose a lot of its historical
weight when the Kaiser’s mobs of khaki are
retreating from France on the one hand and
backing out of Berlin on the other. Any-
how, the Emperor Julius Knight is playing
to diminished audiences, and a series of one-
week revivals is about to begin. On Satur-
day comes “The Scarlet Pimpernel,” after
which “Bcaucaire” and “The Sign of the
Cross.” The drama last named should be
particularly appreciated just now when early 1
Christianity is the order of the day, we
don’t think.
The two French husbands who went astray
under pretence of flying round in a dirigible
balloon, also their wives who stayed at home,
and the aged spiritualist with his rorty
medium, and the inane Floquet, who attacks
a matron’s virtue with all the deep-laid
strategy of a blowfly buzzing about a
ham sandwich, are persisting in their
endeavor to make “The Clad Eye” go at
Melbourne Princess’s. Thanks to the violent
exertions of the two faithless husbands in
the second act, and the opportune arrival of
Kiki, who causes much of the disturbance,
“The Glad Eye” does go fairly well. Kiki
is the soft-spoken daughter of joy from Paris,
the little spirit of mischief, who looks upon
the married man when he is rich and calls
him “Bunny.” Seriously considered, she is.
not the sort of little devil to pair off with a
rugged bloke in the “medium” line of busi-
ness, but one supposes that the bloke afore-
said has arranged to let her remain the same
free and easy Kiki after they are married.
In the ill-fated National Theatre, where
the acoustics are erratic and the flat roof has
a permanent hole in the middle, the Aus-
tralian Opera League gave its first Mel-
bourne performances last week. For three
consecutive nights “Pierrette,”’ described as
a “fantasy” by Fritz Hart, and “Giovanni,”
a fragile opera in three brief acts by Alfred
Hill, got a patient hearing from people who
will welcome Australian talent in opera com-
position when they get it, and are prepared
to endure much suffering from early pioneers
of the movement. The outside public, that
wants impressive entertainment for its
money, was not represented at the A.O.L’s.
inaugural gathering, nor is the first pro-
gramme likely to be l’epeated with jany
chance of making good, in a business sense
of the phrase. Alfred Hill’s opera has pretty
music in it—individual numbers that have a
general air of determination and a distinctly
sympathetic relation to the story, which is
a conventional sentimental story with only
a little flesli on its bones. Although the
construction is crude and .the meagre libretto
is as jerky in its interest as a horserace on
a moving-picture film, the effect of the
work is harmonious. It suggests the advisa-
bility of either filling it out to ordinary
tliree-act proportions or making the sickly
yarn a matter of two acts, with inoye stuff
in it than at present. As for “Pierrette,” it
is a foolish staging of an old grotesque con-
ception. Fritz Hart lacks sense of absurdity.
The effect is discordant all the time, .except,
perhaps; when ; the characters are quartetting
under impossible conditions at the supper
table. As to whether the orchestration was
alone to blame for the discord of perverted
reminiscences of Puccini, Charpentier and
■co., the orchestra knows best. The orchestra
got pleasin': musical results from Mr. Hill’s
score, anyhow. And as to whether the com-
poser intended Pierrot to behave like a circus
clown, even when his girl was the only other
person on the stage, Reginald Roberts knows
best.
** * *
Douglas ' Mawson’s. lecture on his per-
sonally-conducted expedition to the South
Polar district drew a large but uncrowded
audience to Melbourne Town Hall last Satur-
day. The Poles that people think about
just now are in Russia, and Mawson’s adven-
tures down South have lost topical interest;
nevertheless the dauntless hero of the day
before yesterday, an Australian in educa-
tion and enterprise, should have been more
generally looked for by Melbourne when he
came.along with a lecture and a lantern to
show what manner of man lie is. To speak
quite frankly, Douglas Mawson and the pic-
tures'lie puts on the screen are more inter-
esting than the matter of his discourse. The
tall, lean, clean-cut Polar researcher has an
attractive frigidity, but his manner of mar-
shalling his facts is casual and scholastic, and
he evidently takes it for granted that his
audience knows all about the things he never
attempts to explain. For instance, he leaves
the non-enthusiasts in doubt concerning the
benefits conferred on mankind by the expedi-
tion he conducted. Mawson’s ’ loose-jointed
lecture has no dramatic color or descriptive
“THE GLAD EYE”
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S]
Bocard, the wife deceiver
(Tom Shelford).
The real genuine
Comte De La Beuve
(Walter Dean).
force. He is so studiously cold and un-
dramatic that when he tells of his long,
lonely tramp across the ice, and of his
thoughts when he himself was nearly as dead
as the two colleagues who had gone before,
his narrative sends no thrill through his
listeners. It merely holds them with the
bare strength of its few details. Mawson is
no painter of word pictures, but his collec-
tion of photographs, moving and otherwise,
plain and colored, is splendidly descriptive.
The films are an education in frozen scenery.
L. _N. Parker’s new stage-version of
“David Gopperfield,” in seven scenes, was
long ago announced to start at His Majesty’s,
London, this Saturday (Sept. 5). Beer-
bohm Tree, who loves character-parts, has
booked himself for the remarkable double,
Peggotty and Micawber. . Agnes Thomas,
formerly well known in Australia (in “Jim
the Penman,” amongst other things), is the
spinster Betsy Trotwood. Sydney Fair-
brother (formerly one of the “Two Little
Vagabonds”) is Mrs. Micawber, and Fred-
erick Ross, who came to Australia as the
hero in the first production here of “A Mes-
senger from Mars,” is Ham Peggotty.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“John P.”: Alice Pollard, only daughter
of Tom Pollard, who once supplied Maori-
land with opera and musical comedy, was
married recently in London to one Douglas
Stuart, concerning whom, beyond the fact
that his name seems to come from Lothian
or Lennox, the writer doesn’t pretend to any
shred of information. Alice did .fairly well
'at different times in musical comedy in
Maoriland, Australia, Chowth Africa, and
latterly in England. She first saw the light
in Auckland, and scored' her first real success
on the boards at Dunedin many years ago
in “The Belle of New York,” when she tem-
porarily replaced May Beattie as the Belle.
It is now announced that she has definitely
"retired from the stage.
“Makerup”: If the curtain is not rung
down on the war in six months—and it looks
like having a longer run than that —there
will be a big chance for a new and profitable
Australian industry, i.e., the making of
grease paints for those who mum. The popu-
lar face paint in the profesh is manufactured
in Germany (Leicliner, Berlin, is the brand),
but when stocks in Australia run out there
will be no more available from Yarmany.
The stuff costs little, I should imagine, to
make, and there is a very large sale for it.
The local chemist who starts at once as a
grease-paint manufacturer should find him-
self literally a fat man in no time, and his
business once established is never likely to
go under, for it is not likely that patriotic
mummers will daub their faces with the
hated foe’s grease when they can get good
Australian stuff.
“Stargazer”: At length Gilbert-and-Sulli-
van palls. The G. and S. operas never had
a more enthusiastic admirer than I. “Pina-
fore” was the first dramatic entertainment
I ever saw. It set me after Gilbert’s others
with even greater avidity than “Barnaby
Budge” started me in pursuit of Dickens.
I thought “The Mikado” an absolute ideal
considered as a piece of satirical art. After
being parted from the opera for years, I
went to see “lolanthe” the other night.
Alack and well-a-day! there was no longer
anything in it for me. Was it all my fault,
or had the performers neither spirit, _ viva-
city nor understanding? Is the capacity to
act G. and S. a lost art? Anyhow the opera
seemed artificial and drab from post to finish.
There was everywhere the suggestion of
a dead cod masquerading as an ape. No
doubt in the years that are gone I got out
of these operas all that was in them, and one
can’t suck an orange twice. “lolanthe”
reminded me of my meeting, a year ago, a
love of my teens who had since become a
grandmother. I ran away from the grand-
mother, and in the middle of Act 11. I ran
away from “lolanthe.”
“Harrison O.” : It will be all to the good
if the present war censors the traditional
stage libel on Britain’s Gallic allies. There
is one of them in “The Glad Eye.” Nothing
like him ever came out of France, or would
be allowed to remain in it alive. At ordinary,
times his demeanor is that of a young mang
in the rag-trade inquiring: “What’s the next
article, Madam?” but in his passionate
moments he resembles a Dago ;wlio has dis-
covered a bad threepenny-bit in the fly-
specked cash-register. On entering the pre-
sence of his inamorata he makes a point . of
rising on his toes like a coryphee, and hold-
ing out his hands, palms fprward, after the
manner of a damsel at a suburban party
when a sportive youth threatens her with a
raisin. . Offered as a cultivated
a race which places manners before morals,
and recards making love as of more import-
ance than making a living, the-; Princess’s
marionette is a danger to the eiitente cor-
diate. Of course, he may justly .urge that
he is only carrying out, a bit more thoroughly ■
he is only carrying out the British stage '
tradition which insists that a Gaul shall be
.represented as a brief idiot in a tall hat, or
a hatted brevity in a tall idiocy.
“Harrison O.” : A year or two ago bellow-
drama flourished habitually in two of Mel-'
bourne’s four leading theatres, and spas-
modically in the others. Nowadays not one
house is dedicated to bellow, and at present
“A Royal Divorce” is the most satisfying
fare offered .to those who like red gravy
with their tripe. There is money waiting
for someone, who will fill the aching void
with a decently-staged revival of “In the
Banks,” “The Mariners of England” or
“Tommy Atkins.” It is sophistry to say
that screened sensations have spoiled the
public appetite for stage sensations. Melo-
drama, presented as in the palmy days of
Blandolt, would go as well as ever. What
the picture shows have done is to make
stage sensationalism a matter for well-
deserved scorn when carried out on the
scale of lavish inexpensiveness to which we
have of late been accustomed.
Two new English one-acters are strongly
recommended to amateurs. TJiey seem too
frivolous for our Repertory players. In “A
Collection Will Be Made,” a stage curate
at Mont Carlo is mistaken for a detective
splendidly disguised, and all kinds of crooks
load him with cash and valuables as bribes.
He supposes the goods to be meant for his
missions, and gets away with the lot. “The
Tip” is simply an anecdote in dramatic
form. A kind lady presses a sovereign on a
shabby passer-by, remarking briskly “Never
Say Die.” But he is a bookmaker, not a
beggar; and there is a horse of- that name
starting at 100 to 1 in the big race just
due; and the astonished philanthropist has
£lOl pressed upon her at curtain-fall.
“Exit”: The programme of “Du Barry,”
the Nellie Stewart show at Sydney Royal, is
a crowded document. No less than 47
players are listed, and in addition there
arc “Guests of the Fete, Dancers from the
Opera, 'King’s Guardsmen, Clowns, Pages,
Milliners, • Sentries, Lackeys, Footmen,
King’s Secret Police, Sans-Culottes, Fede-
rals, National Guards, Tricoteuses.”
Sojne of these people may be the same
people * twice or three times under differ-
ent, names-; I have not the time to audit
the show or ‘ take the fingerprints of the
(C 0.,; so earn St 'say for certain. Almost -any-
one can pmy one of Louis’ Secret police-
: meniundertakers. Their duties are to wear
black, conspirators’ costumes that make
as secret as burning warehouses,
and'to run about like rats.
“S.T.S.” : Have just come across a mana-
gerial statement, quoted from “an eminent
critic,” unnamed, comparing with each other
Knight’s Marcus, Napoleon and Beaucairc.
“Marcus may be so fine that the original
saw fit to acknowledge that he could never
equal Julius Knight’s impersonation. .. .but
give us jßeaucaire.” The original Marcus
was, of course, Wilson Barrett, and I should
like to have a big wager that he never sdid
anything even remotely approaching that.
An engaging and quite harmless vanity was
a marked feature of his character. I saw
a good deal of him on both his Australian
visits and was genuinely fond of him, but
believe him simply incapable of thinking
that-r—Jet alone saying it. After all, would
any actor, having made a big success in a
particular part, be likely to say it about a
less famous rival? Here is something Bar-
ret did say. During his final Australian
tour I asked him about his quiet way of
entering as Marcus (just at a crisis, in vari-
ous parts of the play), and remarked that
Mr. Knight “took the stage” much more
boldly at those points. “Yes,” he said ; “I
have not seen him, but they tell me he treats
it as melodrama.” W.B. being also the
reputed author, I could hardly reply that it is
melodrama, and is rightly treated as such.
However, there is something definite to start
with. Can any critic, “eminent” or other-
wise, say anything definite in support of the
alleged confession of incompetence?
“The Markee” (about a current play) : I
have had enough of the costume play, in
which a good-hearted lady of loose morals
urges a gay king to remember that he is a
gentleman, while concealing the fact that
her heart belongs to the noble fugitive whom
he (the king) desires to break on the rack
or boil. I have nothing but admiration for
the gallant and stately bearing of the prin-
cipals, and I admit that it refreshes me to
look on at the leisurely manners and splendid
garments of the past. What I cannot stand
'is the humble supernumerary who bobs
clumsily to his Eminence and mumbles “Mon-
seenyer!” and announces “Th’ Dook Shatter
Rabbit’utch.” I suppose it is unreasonable
to 'expect such parts to be played by actors
-of the first rank; but, so far as I am con-
cerned, two “Monseenyers” and one “Dook”
or “Markee” can destroy a splendid produc-
|f on - •
“Circle” The first performance of Nellie
‘Stewart’s production of Belasco’s “Du
Barry,” at Sydney Royal, was brightened by
the effort of a female dancer in one of the
scenes where all was supposed to be hectic
gaiety. Attended by a bevy or mob of
laughing sisters .(I think that is the way to
phrase it), she fluttered down stage like a
.butterfly, hurled one festive hoof into the
■air, and fell with a crash. It sounded like an
accident in the local meatworks; but, for-
tunately, the lady did not sustain visible
damage. She was assisted off, smiling as if
*tlie leap and the crash and the thud were
strictly in accordance with plans and specifi-
cations. A dancer of such velocity might
be Safer -if fitted with a brake or safety-
clutch.
“Theorbo”: In certain respects Sydney
and Melbourne are the Toriest cities on this
planet. I am reminded of it by the fact that
on June 19 last a magnificent performance
of the oratorio, “The Apostles,” by Elgar,
was given in Canterbury Cathedral. The
conductor was Coward, who came here with
the Sheffield Choir. The vocalists included
Mrs. Nicholls • and Coates, both of whom
came with the Quinlan Opera Co. Orchestra
of 108, choir of 264. Imagine the attitudes
of Archbishop Wright or Clarke if one sug-
gested an oratorio in St. Andrew’s or in the
Melbourne St. Paul’s. Yet such a perform-
ance would be one of the grandest acts of
worship imaginable. Town halls are too
barren and hideous to supply the right atmo-
sphere. Elgar, being a Catholic, there, might
be some hope with Archbishops Kelly or
Carr, but I misdoubt me.
“10-2-4” : Patriotism grows steadily in Syd-
ney, though its ways of expressing itself differ
with conflicting temperaments. I heard a
terrific uproar going on outside my
window yesterday afternoon, and on inves-
tigating found old Mr. Smith, a leading
member of our district Empire League,
furiously routing the local German band.
As he overthrew their music-stands and dis-
persed them utterly he cried loudly, “I’ll
teach you to come playing your infernal
National Anthem outside the houses of
Imperialists.” As a matter of fact, the
astonished musicians had been playing, not
“The Watch on the Rhine,” but the overture
from “Norma.” Still the old gentleman’s
intentions were sound, though his ear for
music was not of the best.
(Continued on page 36.)


ŉ
PYJAMAS .. .
Our New Season’s Stock of Pyjamas is composed of
exact Summer-weight Materials, in the Smartest
Shades and Designs.
TAFFETA PYJAMAS.
Exceptionally Smart, in the Latest Pale Blue, Helio and
Pink wide stripes; with frogs or buttons (as illus-
tration) 22/6 per suit
PONGEE SILK PYJAMAS.
The Coolest and Most Comfortable of Summer Pyjamas;
wear well. With frogs or buttons.. 25/-P ersu it
Carriage Paid throughout Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O.- SYDNEY.
The
Double-Life
r>S HIRT
•Just where a shirt needs extra strength—at the
neck —our Double Life Shirt fills the bill. The Double
Neck is unnoticeable.
Made of fine printed Twill in hair stripes of
Black, Helio, Brown, Light Blue, this perfectly
fitting and comfortable shirt will be a boon to men
who want a high-grade and durable shirt at a
moderate price.
We offer Exceptional Value at - - TB
Post Free to any part of Australia. **
Write for our Fine Illustrated Catalogue.
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD.
- M
WIQLE.
DOUBLE
at Neck
ENSURES
DOUBLE
LIFE..
Flinders Lane & Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne.
SOCIETY
Lo, the roystering sanitary inspector!
The annual conference of these truculent
pursuers of the gregarious germ in N. S.
Wales is to be held in September, and the
A REDEEMING FEATURE.
MAGISTRATE (to dissipated cabman): “You are charged with being drunk while driving
your cab. What have you to say for yourself?”
CABBY: “ Please, yer Worship, the ’orse was sober, any’ow.”
menu for the wild outburst announces: “The
last two days of the conference will be given
up to visits of inspection to dairies, noxious
trades premises, niglitsoil desiccators and
garbage destructors.” What a time the
wild gay dogs are going to have! No, the
morgue is not to be visited. It is about the
only place of amusement which has been
censored off the list.
“Able Seaman”: N.S.W. Marine Court,
sitting in somewhat belated judgment on the
loss of the two coastal sailing craft, Aleda
and Alfred Fenning, with all hands on June
17, found that both were eaten by a gale
which sprang up ' that night, and, with a
magnanimity which did Judge and assessors
credit, the court “exonerated” the masters
from all blame. Seeing that these midget sail-
ing vessels were wrecked or foundered owing
to circumstances over which the two skippers
hadn’t any control, and, further, that the
drowned men weren’t there to defend them-
selves, this exonerating business seems to be
overdoing it. If the Court wanted to try any-
one, it had its choice among (1) the Naviga-
tion Department, which certified that these
small craft were fit to trade ad lit), on the
treacherous coast, (2) the owners, who sent
the ships to sea, (3) the responsible party for
the gale. Instead, it gave a sort of grudging
discharge to the sailormen who had gone
down with their ships, overwhelmed by the
Act of God, which is on the side of the
shipowner even if it’s only a tin trunk that
is lost.
Passengers to and from Australia who
booked by German steamers prior to the war
are having a peregrinating time. The Room
from Colombo to Fremantle, turned up at a
Java port. The Zieten, from Colombo to
Tort Said, arrived safely at Lorenzo
Marquez, in Portuguese Fast Africa, t’other
side of Madagascar. The Coblenz, from
Queensland ports to Singapore, ran to Ger-
man Papua, leaving its passengers behind.
Some of them when last heard of (including
Mark Foy, of Sydney) were in Yap, a Ger-
man mid-Pacific possession. The Seydlitz
fled to Valparaiso, so it had better luck than
some of its contemporaries, Valparaiso being
a decent sort of place. All these vessels had
wireless fitted, and this enabled them to
make neutral ports. On the other hand,
the German cargo boats, having no wireless
attachments, unsuspectingly sailed into Aus-
tralian ports, where their flags were hauled
down and placed under the iron heel of the
conqueror.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A story with all the strong
points of an Adelphi bellowdrama comes
from Newcastle. The driver of the Speer’s
Point tram, as his caravan was approaching
Brush Creek, noticed something on the
line which aroused his curiosity. The some-
thing was a woman, who subsequently un-
burdened herself of a startling narrative
about three men who had stupefied her. and
placed her on the rails. Three men, alleged
to be the villains, have been arrested and
charged with attempted murder; but their
alleged crime certainly seems to be, over
Equate' reason l to'seize the
j ia pj ess heroine and place her on the rails:
ie only way in which the Great Rail-
way Scene can be dragged in. But why
three men, with heaps of places less pub ic
to deposit their victim, should choose a tram-
line is a mystery. It might be even less
reliable than a mysteiy.
A LASTING MEMORY.
REMITTANCE M AN: “We’ve met before, I believe, five years ago.”
ORDINARY MAN: “Certainly we have. I remember your breath quite well.”
“Silas Snell” : I was privileged to witness
a preliminary trial of volunteers in the
vicinity of Melbourne the other day. There
was a quaint and motley collection of young
Australians in one corner of the yard; _ a
pink and somewhat portly officer-man with
a slim cane and the lip frills of a Norse-
man ; and one shaggy and peevish bay mare
unfavorably impressed by the company, and
filled with the conviction that the intention
was to play some despicable trick upon her.
Four recruits were shaken off, one after the
other. The fifth youth made a bound at the
horse, swarmed aboard, dug in his tentacles
and let her go. She went. Round and
round the big yard whizzed the distracted
quadruped, hard and fast sat the raw recruit.
“Halt!” cried the pink officer. The mare
took another bad turn, and did one more
record lap. “Halt!” squealed the red war-
rior. The quadruped did not deign to notice
him further than to kick a pint of turf in
his right eye as she galloped past. “Halt!”
thundered the scarlet Hannibal. The mare
would see him blanked first, and for five
minutes she whirled round the brief circum-
ference of the yard, while a lobster-colored
military gent, stood and cried “Halt!” with
ever-increasing fury. Finally the yob on
top succeeded in pulling the mare up. He
was confronted by a parboiled officer-man.
“Didn’t you hear me order ‘halt’ ?” spluttered
the infuriated man of blood and iron.
“’Struth, yes,” said the re,cruit. “Then why
the devil didn’t you halt, sir?” The yob
grinned. “Why the devil don’t you put it
to the bloomin’ ’orse?” he said. That
recruit was set down for insubordination,
insolence to his superior officer, and refusing
to obey orders. I don’t know what happened
to the mare.
* * * *
“Coot” : It may not be generally known,
even to officers of the military forces, let
alone the rank and file, that any soldier over
14 years of age, being in actual military
service, or on his way to join his regiment
on active service, or after an order to mobi-
lise has been received by his regiment, can
make what is technically known as “a
privileged will,” which will be held to be
valid. This “privileged will,” however, can
hold good only as regards personal estate.
Realty is exempt. The will may be of the
most informal character. For instance, it
may consist merely of a letter written by
testator, or at his dictation, and need not
necessarily be even signecj., In fact, if there
are sufficient witnesses tdOthe expression of
the soldier’s intentions regarding the dis-
posal of his possessions, the will - need not
even be in writing. Of course, in- this case
the Court requires clear proofs of the expres-
sion of deceased’s intentions. There is no
need, therefore, for any warrior who has
anything to leave to die intestate.
The Bulletin refuses to make any com-
ment on the following advt. taken from
the Sydney daily papers. Its opinion will
be forwarded to anybody on receipt of a
fireproof stamp: —
CAMDEN COTTAGE HOSPITAL.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the POSITION of
JUNIOR PROBATIONER at a commeheing salary of
£l5 per annum. Applicants to state age and send,
testimonials (copies only) to the undersigned by
Saturday, August 29, 1914. —B. HODGE, Hon. Sec.
“Pegasus”: A N.S.W. Judge spent most
of the morning of August 2T, with the
assistance of a strong Bar, solicitors, his
young and brilliant associate and his honor-
able tipstaff, wrestling with the ease of a
youthful person who had been fGund guilty
of “exercising a horse in a public place.”
The miscreant had been discovered riding
one horse and leading another with a fancy
cloth on it, a practice strongly. resented
by the municipal council of Randwick. The
enraged Road Board proceeded against the
equestrian for frightening the stone-crusher
and causing it to bolt, or something like
that, and he was fined a quid. He had the
audacity to appeal, mainly on the ground
that while the led gee-gee was being exer-
cised the leading animal was not. What-
ever he was doing —admiring the view, walk-
ing in his sleep, or what not, he most cer-
tainly wasn’t taking exercise. According
to the law a bloke might be leading a string
of mokes along the road, ami as long as the
one he was riding wasn’t taking any interest
in the proceedings, then the jockey wasn t
at fault. The learned Judge quite agreed
and quashed the conviction.. He also
squashed the equestrian by making Mm pay
his costs, much more than £l, possibly as a
warning not to skate round the law as if. it
were a mere stable full of asses.
,* * * *
“Junior Bar”: A Scriptural reference is
generally a safe card to play in Adelaide,
but Cleland, Iv.C., overdid it; slightly last
week. On the question of having VI men
or six on a jury, Judges Gordon and Murray
agreed that 12 was originally chosen because
it was the number of the apostles. (Is
Judas represented by_ the obstinate jury-
man who disagrees with the rest.) Iheu
Cleland came in with a suggestion that the.
£490, to which Local Codi't jurisdiction in
South Australia is limited,' represents the
70 times seven, which was given to an
apostle as the limit of forgiveness. It has
generally been supposed to be justra prac-
tical way of saying “under £5OO ; and,
anyway, to sue your brother for £490 dam
ages and a lot of Costs is am odd way o
“forgiving him his trespasses.
WAR VERSUS WEDLOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A medical examiner alleges that no small number
of the Australians who have volunteered for the front
are seizing an opportunity to get aytey from their
wives for a while, or from girls who mive made up
their minds to be their wives.
Oh, battle is a fearful thing,
And when the cannon roar,
And leaden bullets zip and sing,
And trenches run with gore,
The sight might make the stoutest faint,
And long for rest from strife;
But there are men who think it ain’t
As bad as that prolonged complaint
We know as married life.
The smoke-stained hero, gaunt and grim,
Who lurks behind a rock,
And shoots at foes who shoot at him,
Until he gets the knock,
Is carried off with half a leg,
No more to gaily roam,
And in his bed you’ll hear him beg;
“I’ll fight upon a wooden peg,
But please don’t take me home!”
The soldier goes without his grub.
He has no cheerful jags,
He doesn't get a chance to tub,
His clothes are often rags ;
His feet go crook, he’s stabbed and shot,
Disease with him is rife ;
But he’s contented with his lot,
Because, you see, he hasn’t got
Ilis darling little wife !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents of
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind—the results of fermenting food in
the stomach. To secure perfect digestion,
fermentation must be stopped or prevented,
: and the acid neutralised. For this purpose
physicians usually recommend getting a
little bisurated magnesia from the chemist
■ and taking hadf a teaspoonful in a little
) hot or cold water immediately after eating.
1 They recommend bisurated magnesia because
■ it is pleasant to take, has no disagreeable
«after effects, and instantly stops fermenta-
t tion, neutralises the acid and makes the
c-sour acid food bland, sweet and easily
tdigested.
The regular use of bisurated magnesia—
'be sure you get the bisurated . as other kinds
.of magnesia are of little value —is an abso-
lute guarantee of healthy, normal digestion,
for it overcomes and prevents that acid
condition which alone is the cause of
.trouble,*
ŋ
COOL “NO-VESTE” SUITS
—New Styles for Summer, 1914.
“No-veste” (Reg’d) Suits are in a class apart from all other
i eady-to-wear productions. Their distinctive style and the
character of materials denote something better, something
more refined, than one would naturally expect at the price.
The suit illustrated is a typical style. Smartly cut from
plain Light, Mid or Dark Grey Flannel. 2- or 3-button
Goat, with seam and vent back, 3 outside patch nockets.
Trousers: Side pockets, buttons inside OKI
band, cuff bottoms ' *5O "
An ideal suit for holiday or lounge wear. Very lightly
made —easily laundered.
Please state chest, waist, and inside leg measurements.
Full range of “No-veste” patterns and catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Utn” : Some of the daily papers are show-
ing their tremendous erudition just now by
writing with ponderous copiousness about
the “Laws of War,” with particular refer-
ence to the application of these laws to
prize courts. To talk about the laws of war
is about as sensible as to discuss the rules of
Hell, There are no “laws”—merely a few
usages such as evolution from savagery have
demanded, and every one of these lias been
enthusiastically broken by one side or the
other in all wars. As for prize courts, it is
sheer absurdity to pretend that the principles
Ihese institutions act upon are dictated by
any other consideration than national in-
terests; i.e., the pocket of the man with the
prize in hand. No department of so-called
jurisprudence is more chaotic than that hav-
ing connection with the rights of belligerents.
Preliminary steps were taken some four or
live years ago to secure ratification of a
rational code of prize law. But in such
matters a r s this Governments move with lhe
deliberation of an elephant suffering from
bunions. So far as the “laws of war” are
-concerned, the best treatise on the subject
•could be written after an interview with the
Belgians who have lately been arguing the
point around Liege and Brussels.
w * * *
“0-l\'” •' A good result of the war is the
restriction by Act of Parliafnent of the con-
•sumption and sale of alcoholic liquor in
-Britain, which will have practically the
•effect of a tax on the British Beerage and
licensed Bungs. The supply of liquor to
itied houses being restricted, the liquor lords'
will have to reduce their rents. The waste-
ful trade in intoxicants being impoverished,
a host of able-bodied employees will turn
to soldiering, which, under the circumstances,
is a less wasteful occupation. An all-round
reduction in the household expenses of the
idle rich, will mean the throwing of a large
body of lusty flunkeys on the military
market, and uniformed soldiers of the King
are more useful to the nation than liveried
servants of the aristocracy and plutocracy.
War has its social victories, as well
as peace. It puts a number of old
accepted fallacies to the proof and blows
them out. One of the old accepted fallacies
was that “you can’t make people sober,”
which is the very thing Lloyd George’s
measure will tend to do. The workers, who
can still earn. good wages, are denied their
former facilities for getting drunk. Cure
of the liquor habit is forced upon them by
Act of Parliament, and the virtuousness of
socialistic legislation becomes glaringly
apparent to Tories in general and Women’s
ISational Leagues in particular. Plow
LINGERING.
THE WOMAN (after an
hour of it): “I wonder
why Rapoffski objects to my execution?”
THE BRUTE: " Well, my dear, the rope is
quicker."
humorous is tlie fact that War does more
towards advancing and spreading what is
called the temperance movement than all
the Rechabite missionaries under the sun !
BY PROXY.
“And you're sure you won't he lonely till
come back?”
“Oh, no. Eli have the parrot and the cat."
Melbourne City Council got an uncon-
sciously hilarious note from the Yarraside
Property Owners’ Defence Ass. last week,
asking that notices served for the improve-
ment or demolition of condemned properties
should remain in abeyance while the war
lasted. The council didn’t write back, ask-
ing if it was intended to collect rents while
the war lasted. It merely passed the jest on
to the Health committee.
The N.S.W. Government
lias printed its new Sunday
Trading Bill, which will
allow any shop within 20
miles of a proclaimed town
to sell, within certain hours
on Sunday, at any picnic
reserve, beach, pleasure re-
sort or wharf, fruit, con-
fectionery, fish, milk, tea,
iced drinks and cooked
meats. This common-sense
Bill is hedged with a stupid
provision that all victuals
and drinks purchased must
be consumed on the premises
of the vendor. So the small
boy purchasing three penn’-
orth of sweets will have to
sit sadly in the shop and
methodically consume them.
Should. he take his unholy
goods into a park or on to
a beach he will be lawful prey for a watch-
ful police service, whose motto is “Women
and Children first.”
“0.K.” writes :
llolv Church has advanced about half-way between
the Middle Ages and the 20th century. Its latest
attempt to influence political forces in Europe \vas
pathetically foolish. Cabled last week that “the
College of Cardinals had decided to exert pressure on
the Austrian Emperor with a view to inducing him
to suspend war during the Conclave for the election
of a Pope." What war did the Cardinals expect the
sick and sorry octogenarian to suspend ? Th° Rus-
sian war upon Austria, pr the Servian and Monte-
negrin ditto, or the war of the Austrian regiments
serving with the German army? The clerical idea,
seemingly, was to scare the dying Emperor into cry-
ing, “Let there be peace until a new. Pop" has be" t
picked!’’ on the assumption that all the armies
would at once cease firing. Or else the obedient
Franz Joseph was to put the Austrian guns out of
action whilst the other fellows blazed away as usual.
St- Peter only knows why the war which the late
Pope couldn’t prevent should be suspended during the
time there was no Pope at all. Last time there was
an election of the spiritual Roman Governmenr.
even the Cardinals themselves didn’t unanimously
keep it holy. Two of them shocked the
others by smoking cigarettes all over the Vatican.
Finally one of the cigarette fiends was laid low by
an attack of nicotencitis, or “inhaler’s heart,” or
something.
Tlio characteristic of
the German attitude is
its arrogance. Ger-
mans seem to be, in
many cases, looking for
■ trouble; and often they
find it. :One of the
steamers that was de-
void of wireless recently
arrived off an Austra-
lian port. The pilot
boat ducked out and
put the guide on board.
He ran the ship into
Quarantine Bay, and
shouted to let go the
anchor. As he did so
a launch came along-
side, and a party of
boys, about 17 years of
age, scrambled on the
deck. They were in
uniform and armed, and
under the command of
a youth aged about 11).
The bewildered German
captain gaped and then
asked the pilot what it
meant. “War’s broken
out and you’re a pris-
oner !” said the harbor
guide. The German
captain immediately
smote him, knocked
him down, fell on him,
and commenced to
whale into him. But
his triumph was cut
short. A sad-eyed youth
tenderly but firmly
placed the point of his
bayonet against the
German’s hindquarters
and gave a gentle push.
With a howl the cap-
tain sprang to his feet.
stepped back and sainted. lie knew real
war when it pricked him on what he rises
up from when lie has eaten his sausage and
drunk his lager beer.
* * * *
“Y.Z.,” his griefs :
Have been reading an article in the English
Review in which much is made of woman’s capacity
to suffer and be still. Men, it is pointed out, are
notoriously much more complaining and susceptible
than women, and it is man, not woman, who faints
on the operating table and in the dentist’s chair. I
wonder. As for woman’s silence under suffering 1
can only say that I have never met a woman who
suffered and was silent, because not one female of my
acquaintance stands out as an agreeably silent indivi-
dual. Most of my female acquaintances talk
more about their sufferings than about any-
thing else. Woman has even created an institution,
the four o’clock tea, for the sole purpose of talking
about her aches. Whenever two or more women are,
collected together they will be found to be discussing;
their complaints, past, present or to come, and when
a woman has no better audience she talks to herself
on the same old subject. Lots of women bring the
charge against man that he is a howler, a sniveller,
and a nag when his tooth hurts or his rheumatics
get going, but I swear it isn’t true that men spend
much of their spare time sitting in bunches talking
of their miseries, or that the housefather employs
whole afternoons passing the doleful details of his last
disease over the back fence to the bloke next door.
Maoriland didn’t ;nd the task of deal-
ing with the German reservists, for Herr
Von is rather infrequent; but when war
was declared against. Austria the authorities
found themselves up against a tough pro-
position. There are a lot of alleged Aus-
trians (really Croats) on the gum-fields of
the Far North, and, although the majority
of them have neglected to become natural-
ised, their sympathies are known to be with
the country of their adoption. In fact,
parties of alleged Austrians (really Croats)
around Auckland have been regularly burn-
ing the Austrian rag and learning to sing
“Gor’ Save.” What Maoriland is trying to
decide is whether it should run in these
inoffensive citizens and stick them on the
quarantine island in Wellington harbor with
the Germans already there (they would pro-
bably fight the Germans to a finish), or
whether it will merely wink the other eye
and encourage them to go on prodding round
for gum with which to support themselves.
When the mail left Maoriland was still
trying to make up its mind.
* * * *
“0.K.”: “Rule Britannia,” when critic-
ally considered, is not nearly as skiteful a
patriotic jingle as it sounds. The lady with
the trident is figuratively termed the ruler
of the sea, the wish is expressed that she
will continue to be so, and it is asserted
that “Britons never will be slaves”— i.e.,
never will be governed as autocratically and
irksomely as a lot of other people. The
fact that the poorer classes of Britons would
be all the better for a fuller measure of
paternal social government than they get
has nothing to do with the case. The'boast
that they never will be slaves is at least
reasonable, and thus far it has never looked
absurdly pretentious. All the same, the
average Briton smiles, under normal cir-
cumstances, at the high-flown sentiment of
“Rule Britannia.” He is not blind to the
humorous side of national vanity, otherwise
the contemptuous term “jingoism” would
never have come into household use. In
short,* the Briton is capable of laughing at
his own ingrained belief in the greatness of
the Race, although the Race, ored by
geographical circumstances, has scored some
great achievements in conquest and un-
rivalled successes in colonisation. Britoca
have in their patriotism the saving sense
of humor which some nations lack, and the
Germans most of all. Think of the swanky
Prussian army marching into Brussels sing-
ing “Deutschland Über Alles.” What a
mild, benignant patriotic song is “Rule
Britannia” compared with “Germany Over
All” ! The earth, sea and sky all are to bo
dominated by Germany—in the patriotic
Gertoan mind. The Prussian soldier*;
coughed this out to the citizens of Brussels
in their most unpleasant of languages, the
language which is almost a bestial offence
to -every foreign ear. Its harsh tones of
arrogance are audible in the spelling of tiff*
words, “Deutschland Über Alles,” And the
’trouble is that the Germans have such a big
gutfural army to utter their large patriotic
song, whilst their minq-strewing navy care-
fully' permits Britannia to go on ruling the
waves, that it will he a long time ere the
tin-roofed swankelkernkers can he compelled
to .sing small.
“Billy Blue” : It is over a century since
a prize court was first held in Sydney. On
March (i, 1805, a brig called the Harrington,
of 180 tons, armed with six guns, carrying a
crew of 32 men, and in command of Captain
William Campbell, arrived in Port Jackson
from the coast of Peru, with two prizes
captured from the Spaniards. Captain
Campbell had a letter of marque against
France and Holland. The prizes were .a
brig with a cargo of merchandise, and a
cruiser belonging to Spain. It was called
the Estremina. Governor King held an
inquiry into the capture. He seized the
Harrington’s log and the three vessels, and,
in a special despatch, sent all the papers
to England by Captain William Kent, who
was in command of Flinders’ old ship, the
Investigator. The English law authorities
decided that Captain Campbell was in the
right, and a prize court was held in Sydney.
It ordered the two ships and their contents
to be sold by public auction. They realised
£5053. Captain Campbell afterwards settled
in N.S.W., and received a grant of 2000
acres of land near Camden.
* * * *
“Moana” : There was trouble in Fogland
the other day, not because of the war, hut
on account of a photograph of Queen Mary.
It appears that Georire’s wife, while pur-
suing the cause of charity, chanced to attend
a meeting held in the drawing-room of a
lady with whom she was not personally
acquainted. She had not been in the room
two minutes when she was horrified by see-
ing an autographed photo, of herself con-
spicuously displayed in close proximity to
the portraits of a lot of common people.
She knew that she hadn’t presented the
THE CONSUMER'S OPINION.
H E: "‘Tell him not to send
you any more cigarettes .”
S HE: "Jealous cat!”
H E: "No, I'm not. Only
I prefer chocolates."
photo, to her temporary hostess, and so its
unauthorised presence gave George’s better
half the cold shivers or something like that.
Mrs. George handed the offending lady her
best frozen look and went home —returned
to the palace, I should say. Next day the
Queen caused inquiries to be instituted by
sending round the Keeper of the Influenza
Cure or some exalted personage of that type,
to ask the erring lady what she meant by
brazenly exhibiting a royal portrait in such
a disgraceful mannali. The astonished lady
confessed that she had bought the offending
portrait at a sale, and the paralysed Pro-
vider of the Peanut (or whatever he was)
rushed back to the palace to inform the
Boss’s missus that her autographed por-
traits could actually be bought in the untidy
market place, or words to that effect. When
I recovered from my swoon some low black-
guard had stolen m.v paper, so I don’t know
who was hanged. But it served the beastly
vulgar person right. What!
A BREATH OF SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A breath of Summer touched my heart to-day,
And wafted it to Lord-knows-how-long-back ;
It swept the sordid city streets, away,
And set me down upon an upland track,
With scented bush around, and glowing turf,
And, far below, the immemorial surf.
No longer was my office window view
llestricted to a store and half a pub ;
Before me, shining in the morning dew,
Rolled mile on mile of fragrant, waving scrub,
Sheer down to where the lake’s still, brassy sheen
Mirrored the painted walls of Narrabeen.
I did not hear the clangor of the town ;
Nor any sounds, except the north-east breeze
Rising in brief, hot gusts and dying down
Amid the restless summits of the trees,
And clearly, clearly through the summer haze
A magic laughing voice of other days.
My somewhat weary heart felt light again ;
And all the world seemed good and bright and gay ;
A place where no one gave, or suffered, pain—
All Life, in fact, was as this one dear day....
Which shows the way, when all is said and done,
A breath of Summer can impose on one.
N.s.w.
J. B. D.


TURNED DOWN.
MRS AUSTRALIA (to Cook): “You needn’t call again. I’m renewing my custom with Andy Fisher.”
HAWKER COOK: “But I’ve got a special line in Union Jacks. Very suitable during the war, mum."
MRS. AUSTRALIA: “Andy’s got some, too, and he’s got some lines that’ll be very useful after the war is over."


SMALL, M.P
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
AN ALMOST FORGOTTEN SUBJECT.
Still it seems necessary to say someting about it. Verse by the man who signs it, 34 Elizabeth-street. Panddington (N.S.W.).
Picture by the man who signs it, Springwood (N.S.W.).
THE country called for mighty me „
* progress far * y men to Push its
Beyond the crude and commonplace, beyond
the Things that Are.
And how did Mr. Small. M R. s | gn if icantl
speak ?
>He said: “Let’s build a bridge across
As-dry=as-ashes Creek ’* ?
The land w«s rushing to the dogs, and breathless was
its speed ;
The dogs were big and numerous and lengthy pedigreed.
Yet how did Mr. Small, H.P.. cause a«l his foe? to wilt?
He thundered . Let such trifles slidc^—a cuiyert must
a be built ” I
Hie loans were falling overdue, and far across the sea
couldiT JeWS impatience was as P ,ain as plain
And how did Mr Small. M.P., the bailiff hold at bay?
C vvashed" 11 Sa ' d : , At for-weeks the metal’s
washed away }
rhe cri r ed ent Was bfaCt< 3S and ' oh * the c °untry
f ° r vvide Wb ° Se out^° was 35 w *de as continents are
Was Small a failure? N O . not he! He rose from where
he sat
° h F\at '7 C ° r(lUroy with ,oans the r °ad at Boggy
The door? lP,oyed WCre tHiCk ar ° Und the Governmental
' T, ’ e a S kS dole ' and *“"• " k * T ™‘-
d w nr ' Sma "’ M ' P - thC order Seek to change?
Range - telephone across Dead Buhfck
But T. X' t",°' le “ ons taught by povert > and P a,n ;
after rain S,retChed brieht as sunshine
And the m plus'" P ' WaS t 0 Choose the minus or
Ht Z S 7"I WHa ' ° Ur ,a,hers dM <•■ good enough
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


WHY BE SATISFIED with imperfect pencopies?
Sec that your Benduplieate books are provided with
Zanetic copying paper, every sheet stamped Zanetic,
and satisfaction is certain. It’s economical. Zanetic
books printed to order. Quotes from Zanetic Works,
Leicester. England.*
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY.
HATS.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
NO MORE FAT PEOPLE.
Most fat people sewn to think that the
only way to take off fat is to use dangerous
drugs, follow a starvation diet or take stren-
uous exercise. But all this is nonsense, and.
thanks to the recent discovery of an eminent
scientist, thousands of mep and women are
taking off several pounds of useless fat a
week by simply rubbing on to the fat part--
hips, arms, chin or abdomen —a simple
lotion made by pouring a cup of hot water
over a dram of quassia chips; let it stand
for a minute, then strain through a (doth
and add •> ounces of Cirola Bark Extract-
Pour the mixture into a bottle and apply
night and morning, rubbing it in with the
hands for about. 10 minutes, using a circular
motion, and the fat will almost seem to melt
away before your very eyes. The ingredi-
ents, which are inexpensive, may be had of
any chemist, and the results to be obtained
are really remarkable.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Nearly every day the Melbourne Age
prints a tierce anti-German editorial. If
the article contains any reference to Aus-
tralian politics it is usually signed by G. F.
11. Schuler, editor, and certain of liis satel-
lites. Gottlieb Schuler, however, is not to
be judged German by his name. He is not
the stout, beer-biting, German sausage-
scoffer which his designation would seem to
indicate. Instead, lie is a very small,
mild - seeming
slip of a man
who loQks as
though his daily
diet were milk-
and-biscuits for
breakfast, a
small ham sand-
wich for lunch,
and one sardine,
a nice, hot cup
of tea and fried
beetroot for din-
ner in the even-
ing, and the
half of a small
apple at sup-
per-time. And
he surely does
hate the Ger-
mans, if the
printed word
stops for any-
thing !
BELTON,
Deputy Leader
of Tasmanian
Labor parly.
“Henri Singemoine” writes :
Randolph Bedford, in an obituary notice of Gregor
Macgregor (B. 27/8/’l4) dragged in “Willy Kelly, the
terrible example of a little man who didn’t have to
work for a living.” It strikes me as poor, not to
say damphoolish criticism. Kelly may be a number
of objectionable things, in a political sense, but
obviously he is not what Randolph says he is. Despite
the facts that lie “didn’t have to work for a living,”
and that his health was never good, he has worked
like a tiger all his life. Much of his toil has been
misguided, but there is no reason to think that it
wasn’t sincere enough according to the lights of
Kelly. Australia is full of remittance-men, British
and foreign, dipsomaniacs! and otherwise. They come
well within the bounds of Randolph’s definition. Eng-
land, on the other hand, contains many rich Aus-
tralians who do nothing for the Commonwealth, and
only visit it in order to frustrate the Absentee Tax.
They, also, may be called “terrible examples” of
something or other, I suppose. And then there are
evil-disposed characters who employ their affluence to
form oppressive trusts, get. drunk and smash up
bars, bribe the police, build hideous houses, and in
countless other respects make public nuisances of
themselves. Kelly has never been one of these. He
is, in many respects, a horrible politician, but his life
cannot be called a contemptible one. With sufficient
means to live in idleness anywhere, he nevertheless
labors as strenuously as the next man. And lie
doesn’t even toil for personal profit. He works to
the best of such ability as he possesses for what
he conceives to be the good of the country. Bearing
in mind all the drunks, criminals, degenerates, wast-
ers, loafers and idiots of means that are fanned by
every passing breeze, it seems to me that to call a
Kelly a “terrible example” of inherited wealth is an
instance of the cheap abuse which defeats its own
object—in addition to being a criminal waste of
good adjectives.
Laid to rest at Waverley last week,
Henrietta Olivia, widow of John de Villiers
Lamb, aged 75 years. He was the fifth son
of Commander Lamb, who entered commer-
cial life in Sydney in 1829 and founded a
commercial house, afterwards known as
Parbury, Lamb and Co. A sister married
H. C. Hangar. She, also, died recently.
Thomas Shearman, poet, priest, linguist
and translator, died at the Wendouree Mon-
astery, Ballarat (Vic.), on August 22. Into
a short life of 60. years he crowded a little
learning. He spoke nearly a dozen lan-
guages, and could read and write in several
more. As a poet his work was fine and
technically almost perfect, but it was over-
shadowed by his priestliness. His mind
was singularly youthful and his humor
effervescent. If there are no humorists in
Paradise Thomas Sherman will find the
place rather dull.
At Castlemaine (Vic.) three of the oldest
residents died on the same night. Mrs. Arch-
dale (who arrived at Forest Creek diggings
with her father, Dr. Preshaw, in 1852 —he
started practice in a tent at Moonlight Flat
and has resided in the district ever since)
succumbed at the age of 78; Mr. H. McLean,
one of the pioneers of the Harcourt district
(father of G. D. McLean, secretary of the
A.N.A.), threw it up when aged 75; and
Mr. James Gilfilian, aged 78, who for many
yeais was manager of the local branch of the
Bank of New South Wales, also decided that
it was a fair thing. When the Oldest Inhabi-
tant dies the Middle-aged Inhabitant is pro-
moted. There was a lot of promotion that
night.
“The Old Soldier”
The S. M. Herald was annoyed at the Kaiser’s
“theatrical farewell” to the First Prussian Foot
Guards. He is said to have flourished his sword and
cried: “I draw the sword that, with God’s help, I
kept all these years in the scabbard. 1 have drawn
this sword, which, without victory and without honor.
I cannot sheath again,” and so on. But it is natural
for royalty to pose. It is also business. Baumann
of Munich, who is one of the Court photographers, and
knows William well, says that he is a profound
psychologist. It is quite likely that the Kaiser’s
speech to the Prussian yokels who make up the bulk
of the Guards regiments, sank a good deal deeper
than Kitchener’s 200 words of advice to the British
army. No soldiers care for good, sensible fireside
counsel. Napoleon I. understood this very well, and
splurged accordingly. The French soldiers got a down
on General Trochu as soon as he was made Governor
of Paris in 1870. They contemptuously christened
him General Trop Lu (Too-mueh-read), and if it had
not been for Ducrot and one or two others the defence
would have broken down entirely. As an instance of
the carefully considered deliberation of the Kaiser's
posing, Baumann tells of a £3OO order for photo-
graphs that he got from that potentate. “A number
of enlargements were ordered for his regiments. Of
all the photographs taken, those selected for this
purpose represented him as being most rigidly com-
manding and formidably severe.” What sort of sub-
ject he is before the camera this will show: “Master
of the situation even before the camera, he changed
his posture and expression with the art of a consum-
mate actor. .. .In 40 minutes I had taken 35 different
photographs, all in different positions.” That is the
sort of man Europe is up against; a megalomaniac,
possibly, but one whose swelled head is gratified
always with an eye to business —the War Lord
business.
Israel Zangwill, playwright, novelist,
would-be rebuilder of Zion and founder of
a Jewish State, fills a column of London
Times in ventilation of liis tiresome hobby
or monomania. He mentions that he found
“Sir” Alfred Dealtin “personally charming”
but “inflexible” in his determination not to
have a Jewish or other Asiatic province in
Australia. Sir Wilfred Laurier
was quite as affable as Alfred, but
no less decisive in his refusal to
give the Chosen People a slice of
Canada. Only from the late Joe
Chamberlain did Israel receive
words of encouragement and sym-
pathy. He suggested to Joe (then
Secretary of State for the
Colonies) that British East Africa
should be converted into a British
Jewish Colony, and he alleges that
Chamberlain jumped at the idea,
exclaiming. “There will be the devil
to pay. but I’ll stick to you through
thick and thin.” The statesman is
now in Paradise and cannot contra-
dict this assertion, but it was cer-
tainly not his habit to talk like
that. However, the African pro-
ject did not come off. and Israel is still
searching for the site of the New Jerusalem.
“Copy Boy” : Although he had of late de-
voted himself chiefly to journalism, Wolfe
Fink, who died suddenly in Melbourne the
other day, was better known in the courts
than on the Inky Way. A Jew, born in
Guernsey 02 years ago. he came to Australia
as a youngster, and had a brilliant career
at Melbourne University. As a barrister
he had an infinite capacity for coming into
conflict with the Bench, and as a journalist
he mixed legal articles and frivolous leading-
notes for Melbourne Herat, d with agri-
cowtural contributions to the Weekly
Ttmes. He was a brother of Theodore Fink,
ex-M.8.A.. and chairman of directors of tin 1
Herald.
Henry Dutton, who died suddenly at
Kapunda (S.A.) last week, aged 66, took a
pride in arranging his estate and his i e
on English lines. In fact, he was geneia y
known as the Squire of Anlaby. One Dutton
was a pioneer of Kapunda copper long ago,
State Premier and Agent-General. Another
made a pile as a pastoralist. Henry, son of
a third brother, was a bank clerk at 42,
when he succeeded to his uncle’s fortune.
JOSIAH
SYMON
(S.A.).
He made the Anlaby home-station into a
palace, and shed money in a paternal way
all over the Kapunda district. But he did
not make the Victorian “squire’s” error of
locking up good land; the station itself,
which used to shear 60,000 sheep, lias been
pared down to a mere 20,000 acres, the rest
being cut up into farming blocks. Henry
endowed churches and hospitals and recrea-
tion-grounds, made roads and built bridges ;
but the only time he ever came out into the
public eye was when lie jumped in and
literally saved the town of Gawler by financ-
ing the great Martin and Co. ironworks at
a crisis. His chief personal hobby, after
his conservatories, was his steam yacht, the
Adele, in which he always spent the summer
around Kangaroo Island as host of a succes-
sion of Adelaide people. The only son,
Harry Dutton, at present on a visit to Eng-
land, is best known, so far, for a motor-car
journey made, with Murray Aunger, right
across the continent, from Adelaide to Port
1 larwin.
BEGINNING THE ATTACK.
BLOODTHIRSTY CLUB MAN: “Yes, sir, I
would attack and annihilate everything
German. Waiter, bring two bottles of
lager. ”
Christchurch (M.L.) lost one of its host-
known women lately when Miss C. Free-
man, the head of dirt on College in The Flat
City, passed over suddenly. .She held very
high certificates as a teacher, and was one
of the first women in Otago (M.L.) to
receive the B.A. degree. She never worried
about fashions or details of that kind, and
looked as if she had worn the same clothes
for the last 10 or 15 years.
“Norbell”: Amongst the “prisoners of
war” captured at Auckland, Maoriland, are
the members of the German band which
plays “Rule Britannia” and “Gorsave”
about the streets; One of the Brisbane
papers, announcing this engagement, had a
scare heading on the contents bill: —
ANOTHER VICTORY! CAPTURE OF A GERMAN
BAND!
THE PRINCE WHO IS DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Crown Prince of Germany has been killed.
—Any paper any day.
I read war cablegrams of late
With great aviditee,
And curious is my mental state.
My friends are shunning me.
They think a sunstroke I have got,
And that I’m slightly off my dot,
When I endeavor to explain
The Crown Prince has been killed again.
They killed the Crown Prince at Berlin,
A fell assassin’s hand
Had cut the poor chap off in sin.
He’d joined the Shining Band.
And then one morning at the front,
When doing some heroic stunt,
With all the horrid pomp of war
They killed that frequent Prince once more.
Since then the cablegrams have slain
The Crown Prince every day.
To-morroW he’ll be shot again.
Next eve he’ll pass away
Because of sundry jabs he’ll get
From Crapaud’s awful bayonet.
If for a year these wars endure
That Crown Prince will get hurt, I’m sure!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
Peter’s Dead Delegate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Randolph Bedford writes an obituary:—
Giuseppe Sarto, Pope Pio X., I met 11 years ago,
three weeks after his election. Somebody at the
London Press Club had made a bet that 1 could not
get an interview with him, rs differentiated from a
mere hand-kissing excursion of five minutes or so,
and I went from my home in Leghorn to Rome in
the worst of the summer, backed up by the Bishop
(he of Campiglia Marittima), two consuls, two car-
dinals and the English priest of San Silvestro in
Capite, the church of high-brow Catholics from
foreign parts. It was the finest day to show the
great factors in the making of the Roman character
—heat of that degree that brings the snake a happy
frying on his rock (volcanic rock and limestone!.
Add a grape or two and a jar of wine and a salad
and you have the conditions that enlighten brains
into genius and make artists of slaves. They told
me at the Vatican that it was utterly useless to expect
a private audience or anything approaching it with
a Pope so new as Sarto, and when I mentioned that
1 was shortly leaving for Australia, and that if his
Holiness lost this opportunity he might never, never
sec me again, the myrmidons of the palace laughed -
and I had gained a point. I had met Cardinal Moran
at St. Agatha’s, and knew he would help me, but 1
wanted to keep him as a reserve force (these military
terms come naturally to us tacticians the days),
and finally won the battle without requisiConing the
Australian Cardinal at all. In two days 1 had my
invitation, and when I met that benign old man he
saw the humor of it and laughed cheerfully, and let
me keep hold of his hand until I had the material
for that column and a half. With good humor and
a pair of boots a man may go all over the world, and
that day if didn’t matter if I had been barefoot. The
grin was sufficient.
I saw a great man, because a very good man—the
son of a tax gatherer at sd. per day—become head of
his Church in the most democratic way. T never
heard of a, bird-scarer winning the Archbishopric of
Canterbury. The Trevisan lad was a good mathe-
matician and a fine natural orator in his own 1 n-
guage, though French was almost unknown to him
and Latin was one of his tools of trade. But he
won to be vicar of Trevisa, Bishop of Mantua and *
Patriarch of Venice out of his own goodness of heart,
his war on poverty, pain and injustice, and his con-
stitutional inability to be deaf to a hard-luck story.
I should think that he and Ca-’.o Borromco, Bishop of
Milan, in the worst years of the plague, were much
alike in heart, as they were slightly alike in face.
Both were very honest, very simple, very clever, and
had no use for money but to give it away.
A man dressed in the color of a flamingo led me
through the aching corridors of marble that seemed
endless and hot in that incandescent afternoon.
Ilelmeted halberdiers in medieval clothes of slashed
red and black and gold, designed by Michael Angelo
—the Pope’s carabinieri and the Pope’s Swiss —
guarded the loggia and the landings. And on an
upper colonnade I caught Pio the Tenth —Pio in a
cream-colored habit and skull cap, with a silver
Christ on an ivory cross at his waistband —Pio, with
the big nose of energy, the laughing eye of an Irish-
man of the South, and a kindly, mobile mouth ready
to smile on the slightest provocation. He had to
smile when I held that hand of his as if I were a
drowning man, and, by-and-bye, he laughed out to
the mole on his right cheek. His secretary, a dark,
irritable little man in the dress of a secular priest,
didn’t see the joke, but there were only two of us on
the stage in that act, and he didn’t matter.
Pio X. asked about Australia, and blessed me and
all who belonged to me. When I told him I was
not a Roman Catholic, he said that didn’t matter.
And then 1 asked him to give me a message for any
Catholic friends in Australia, and he replied that
he blessed them and all the people who are not
Catholics also—blessed the world, in fact, in one
great, comprehensive benediction; and the good eye
and the kindly, manly face showed that it was no
mere figure of speech, and that he meant every word
of it.
He tried to avoid the Pontificate, and was elected
because no man was jealous of him, and on him all
the factions of the Cardinalate could agree. His
people of Venice wept when they knew he would not
return to them, and even in Venice, that hotbed of
anti-clericalism, he had no enemy. The bitterest
moment of his life must have been that moment of
recognition of the fact that long-distance arms and
scientific war have taken the soldier for ever from
the domination of the Church. A good, kindly
gentleman, with a fine brain and a soft heart; and
the meeting of him cost me a seat in the House of
Representatives. The Illiberal's or C’onfusionists, or
whatever they call themselves, used it with two
edges. Protestants were told I was a renegade, who
had made obeisance to the head of the first Christian
Church. Catholics were told that I had insulted the
Caesar of the Vatican. Still, it was worth while. There
are no men in Parliament as good as Giuseppe Sarto,
and certainly none of his kindliness or charity in the
Federal electorate of Bourke. World over, men like
Pio X. are very rare. Let us be thankful to Cir-
cumstance, which made him live to SO years of age.
I solemnly warn all writers that trespass in this
matter is prohibited. I do not mind “Jeames” hav-
ing the British aristocracy to himself, including the
Sclileswig-Holsteins, the Coburg-Gothas, the Durham
Bulls and the Machiavelli Smiths; but 1 will no!
allow him to write tales of his talks with Cardinals
when he was a cameriere at Rome. He never was ;
but, in any case, this Pope is my Pope, and if
anybody interferes with him I’ll make more trouble
than the Germans are making in Belgium.


'
• :sv\ ?
n
HR
S " <'.-S
■■ .>: i
C'
ffiSICSy
,
•%mx
I. | 111 I
.
m
■
ai
v ;:
£l*.
:
;,/ , :
111 >:
-
**?; •
;;»% ■
lasii
I
;
A
m
S
» \P, ■ ~ 'j>, ;; ■. v
\ h : ;
-•• ; ••
'V V
§: . ,
./ ■ . *V. ■■''■■'
K-;
k-ri*
4s& ’ . ~ ■. ■ 4
- :
~, <> ' - 4 > t+ * -
- *«!
»3J
S
ifii
jLz&'SWr
:
•**>%*
*#2
«S 1
*• '%
..
i „#
*:
!WS
W"
gt#y.;
r- x
4
'
Sli
m
\ >i^
• '
?:■
ggg
! V- ' r :■
m
m
U
j# V f®{ *
*
:
‘
/
•?/ : . - ' / ■..
i'r
■
y
IS
Ml
«
f
ll*
pSandy and the sun-browned
farmer
Agriculture talk about,
Sowing mentioning, and crop-
ping,
Stacking, ensilage and
drought;
Clearing, too, and irrigation,
Xill the hour is getting late,
Whereupon says Sandy slily:
“Come, now, let us irrigate.
I’ve some ‘Farmer’s Comfort’
wi’ me”—
Here a flask he dredges
out!—
“Sandy’s whusky—’tis th’
finest
Means by which to break a
drought!”
m
w
w
m
3^
mm
■ WUW WE
SILVER BELT
Old 3 cotcK


SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Sole Australian
Representatives
for
Lawson House,
Clarence Street, Sydney
Coventry Chain 8 Bet-i-grip Brake Lining
STOCKS CARRIED.
Overall, McCray, ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughlng, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Marshall Shoe Co. (Melbourne), manu-
facturers of boots, shoes and side-lines :
Written To Re- De-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, ficit.
July, Ord. Pref.
££■ £ £ £
1911.. 3,072
dene, Reserves.
1912.. 15,029 8 p.c. 8 p.c.= 6,367 8662 5,590
1913. .14,475 8 .. 8 ~ „ 9,416 5059 10.049
1914 .. 15.13,3 9j ~ 8 „ ~10,939 6000 8,843
This business had been going only four years
when the company took it over. In those
circumstances although it was showing an
excellent piofit. the right thing was done in
fixing the goodwill loading at a light figure.
The business was valued at £7560. Add
£892 for preliminary exes.; total intangible
assets to start with, £8392. As a set-off to
that, the vendors transferred the contingency
and other reserves, £5320. This left a net
deficit of £3072 plus whatever might subse-
quently be written off the reserves then taken
over. Profits have been shown without any
allowance for depreciation of buildings,
plant, etc. Of the amounts put by for re-
serves a total of £16,000 has gone to the
plant renewal fund, from which £6OOO is
now struck off against accumulated deprecia-
tion. This leaves the reserves as follows: —
Plant renewal account . . .. £lO.OOO
Reserve fund .. .. .. 2,500
Unappropriated profit .. .. 1,343
Total reserves .. .. .. £13,843
Less intangible assets .. .. 5.000
Vet reserves .. .. .. £8,84.3
If £6OOO is sufficient to cover all the accumu-
lated depreciation, it follows that in three
years the co. has paid its substantial divi-
dend and had £11,915 of profit to span;. Of
the dividend on ordinary shares paid for the
past year 1} p.c. (3d. per share) is distri-
buted as a bonus, which may be the directors
way of hinting that the titbit will not always
be on the menu.
The capital is £121.500. which seems ample
for present purposes; for though liabilities
have increased a trifle during the year, they
still amount to only £22.260. Twelve months
ago they were £10.268. The extra money
lias gone into stocks and book debts, which
probably indicates an improved turnover.
These two items (book debts and stock)
represent over £96.000. Plant, fittings, etc.,
stand now at probably under £43.000. Twelve
months ago they were in at £41.028. and
though some additions have been made since
then the £6OOO mentioned above has been
written off. Considering that: this is a
manufacturing concern, the proportion of
capital locked up in plant and factory pre-
mises is therefore very small, and the pro-
portion in much more liquid book debts and
stock is unusually large; Moreover, it was
given out some time ago that, the co. was
using its own machines, which is a some-
what uncommon thing in the hoot trade,
wherein the manufacturer of machinery has
a pleasant habit of only installing his
patented gear on a royalty basis. In case of
k '( n competition- Marshalls should therefore
have the advantage. Trade in the immediate
future is liable to suffer from the cause which
is giving most traders some anxious moments.
Nevertheless when the war clouds’, arc chased
away, nothing is more certain that that Aus-
tralia will he less disposed than ever it has
been to buy foreign goods, and thereby equip
a possible enemy with men and money.
The South Brishane Gas and Eight
Co. (Q.) :
Writ-
Dividends amt ton To Re- Re-
trofits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
C C £ £ £
Dec., ’O6. .3438 7 p.c. = 1929 1509 16.716
June, ’07..320S 8 .. ~2205 .31 972 17.688
Dec., 'O7. .3940 8 ~ .. 2205 206 1529 19.217
June, ’05..4070 9 ~ .. 2481 1589 20.806
Dee.. ’OB. .4805 10 ~ .. 2750 19 2030 22,836
June, '09..4627 10 ~ 2756 658 1213 24.019
Dee., 'OO. . 5329 10 .. ~ 2750 2573 26,622
June, TO. .5156 10 ~ ~ 2750 252 2448 29,070
Dec.. ’10..5600 10 ~ ~ 2756 2010 31,980
June, ’11..4542 10 .. ~2750 - 1786 33,766
Dec., Tl. .5854 10 .. 2756 - 3098 .36,864
June. '12.. 4290 10 .. .. 2756 1534 .38,398
Premiums received .. 3558 41,956
Reserves capitalised, £18.221 .. 23,735
Assets written up, £1.4,603 •• 38,398
Dec., T 2. .5982 10 p.c. - 2929 3053 41.451
June, T3..5443 10 „ .13f4 2099 43.550
Dee., '13..6855 10 .. .. 4009 750 2096 45,646
June, ’14.. 7806 10 .. 5250 750 1806 47,452
This is the concern over whoso management
there threatened to tic a great row six
months ago. Apparently nothing came of
it. Nothing has a lmhit of happening
oftener than anything else. The only echo
of the preliminary scrimmage is in the direc-
tors' report: "It is a matter for congratula-
tion. and. your directors make hold to say,
proves conclusively the wisdom of the gen-
eral scheme for management laid out some
years ago. that each half-year has shown a
marked increase in profit." Shareholders,
it seems, may also “confidently expect that
the profits of the company will he further
increased when the new carbonising plant
is in operation." Profits in excess of 10
p.c. on profs, and ordinaries “are distribu-
table equally among the whole of the
shares.” The time may come when the
public which pays the gas bill may also
have a few words to say. as it has done
already in N.S.W.- —and N.SAV. merely fol-
lowed an English precedent. Of the capital
of £lOO.OOO the table shows that £18.221
was transferred from reserves in 1912. The
10 p.c. dividend is thus already really one
of about 114 p.c. And the amount put by
during the past 12 months was sufficient to
pay another 4 p.c. Moreover, considerable
sums have been written off. Apart from the
depreciation allowance shown above an un-
specified amount has been charged up along
with manufacture, etc. That the deprecia-
tion allowance has been more than adequate
seems to be conveyed by the fact that assets
were written up nearly £15,000 a couple of
years ago. Taking all these circumstances
into account the eo. will have extraordinary
luck if it is permitted to pouch the extra
profits talked about. The swing of the
pendulum is bound to push the Liberals out
of office sooner or later,; probably sooner,
and the prudent investor will consider what
ure then the chances of a measure to corre-
spond with the N.S.W. Gas Act. Besides
its capital, recently raised to £lOO,OOO, the
company lias a debenture loan of £50,000.
It had the good fortune to arrange this only
a few months ago apparently with its
banker; at any rate, on June 30 it had
£16,480 on deposit “bearing interest at same
rate as the debenture loan.” An old deben-
ture issue of £15.000 has been paid off. and
the management thinks that “the ordinary
business requirements of the company for
the next 26 years” have now been provided
for. Apart from the new loan the company
owes only £2732. and outside the deposit
(£16.480) above mentio&d. has about
£12.000 in liquid and semi-liquid assets.
Fitzgerald’s Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine. Vic.) :
Writ- Added
Net ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends off. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1901 .. 7107 10 p.c.- 4000 3107 17,299
X 10,000 of reserves added to capital, making it
£50,000, and reducing reserves (0 .. 7.299
1902 .. 6814 10 p.c. = 5000 1814 9,11.3
1903 .. 6268 10 ~ ~5000 1268 10,381
1904 .. 6250 10 ~ .. 5000 1250 11.631
1905 .. 6423 10 .. .. 5000 1423 13,054
1906 .. 6741 10 ~ „ 5000 1741 14.795
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£60,000, and reducing reserves to . . 4.795
1907 .. 6778 IQ p.c. = 6000 778 5,573
1908 .. 6705 10 ~ „ 6000 705 6,278
1909 .. 6308 10 .. 6000 308 6,586
1910 .. 6463 1.0 .. .. 6000 163 7,049
1911 .. 6854 10 ~ ~6000 854 7,903
1912 .. .7364 10 ~6000 1009 345 8,248
1913 .. 6537 10 .. ~6000 440 97 8,345
1914 . . 70,33 10 „ ~ 6000 1033 9,378
Doubtless that extra bit of profit for the
year is the eo.’s answer to those who accused
it of cutting things too fine last year. And
though The Bulletin won't swear to it, it
fancies that the directors could just as
easily have shown a profit of £8033 as £7033
and not been a penny the worse off, for they
seem to have acquired the cheerful habit of
chipping off profit, ostensibly to cover depre-
ciation, etc., just as they think fit. And if
this is so. there is probably a handy hidden
reserve somewhere on the premises. And
that suspicion is strengthened by the fact
on two occasions (in 1902 and in
1907) £lO,OOO was transferred from reserves
to capital, and the old 10 p.c. dividend con-
tinued and the profits rose to the occasion.
But The Bulletin has a tender spot for
Fitzgerald’s. When the majority of breweries
in Victoria had declared war on each other
and were collaring every pub they could lay
their hands on, usually going to the money-
lender for the needful, Fitzgerald’s people
sat back and waited, so that now they have
oulv £40,983 in hotels, and all they owe
the' world is £2433. This is how those and
a few other items compare with 10 years
ago:—
1904. 1913. 1914.
Capital .. .. £50,000 £60,000 £60,000
Liabilities . . 6,000 6,785 2,433
Properties .. 27,891 47,15.3 47,283
Liquid assets .. 20,665 20,348 18,280
Other assets .. 21,574 11,069 9.239
Gross receipts .. 8,916 8,529 8,967
Expenses . . 2,466 1,993 1 ,951
Pub properties represent just over two-
thirds of the capital, and it isn’t wise to go
over that mark, for though the rent return
nowadays is handsome the cold tea party
is liard at work in Victoria, and a pub loses
half its value when its beer-pump is
scrapped. Of 49 hotels in tlio Castlemaine
district in 1906 37 were condemned to die,
some suddenly, others slowly. But the
wowser stops at that. He can’t legislate
to prohibit the cultivation of a thirst, and
this is ho>v Victoria's public thirst has
grown, as indicated by the amount of beer
manufactured there: 1904: 14.027.8 i.! gal-
lons: 1906: 16.409.465 gallons: 1012 (the
last figures available) : 20.247,337 gallons.
And the harder Ihe wowser puts on the
screw, the more likely is the little man to
drop out, and the longer will the would-be
new competitor think before he begins opera-
tions —both of which circumstances arc
right into the hands of the big brewery.
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June '06.. 6,999 8 p.c. = 3669" -3,330 20,392
Dee ’06.. 7,897 S „ ~.3669 4,228 30,620
June. '07.. 7,546 10 ..4586 - 2,960 .33,580
Dec ’07.. 6,287 6 .. .. 2752 99 3,436 37,016
June. ’OB.. 5,6.35 6 .. ..2752 99. 2,784 39,800
Dee., ’OB.. 4,996 6 .. .. 2752 —, 2,244 42,044
June, ’09.. 6,458 6 ~ .. 2752 —; 3,706 45,750
Dec., '09.. 4,627 0 .. .. 2752 -- 1,875 47,625
June TO.. 12.230 12 ~ ~ 5504 6.726 54.351
Dee. TO. . 12,125 12 ~ „ 5504 6,621 60,972
.Tune' ’ll.. 11.449 12 .... 5504 5,945 60,917
Dee.,' ’ll!. 14.145 10 .. .. 7338 0.807 73,724
Transferred to capital. £55.0.38 .. 18,680
j n ne T 2.. 25.252 11$ p.c. = 8164 17.088 35,774
Dee ’ T 2.. 14.165 111 ~ „ 8164 6,001 41,775
June, ’IS.. 15.138 lli„ ~8164 6.974 48,749
Dee., T 3.. 16,589 11$ .. 8898 7.691 56,440
Transferred to capital, £18,346 .. 38,094
June, T 4 . . 14,211 11$ p.c. = 8898 5,313 43,407
That increase of capital out of reserves puts
things as they were before the writing off in
1004 cut the capital down to £91.730, or to
10s. per £1 share paid to 18s. Of the Bs.
then written off 6s. was returned in 1912.
and now the shareholders have been handed
hack the balance, and the capital is again
£165.114. And having got that off their mind
the directors have now begun a very strenu-
ous extension campaign. The laud whereon
the main freezing buildings are situated has
up till now been held on lease, but during
the year the co. obtained the freehold. The
new freezing plant—which is the largest
south of the line —is practically completed
and ought by this time to be in commission.
New boilers have been installed and plans
are being prepared for a new dairy. The
result is reflected in this comparison:—
Dec.,’o4. June.'l3. Dec.,’l3. June,’l4.
Liquid assets .. £42,267 £109,899 £119,073 £92,883
Liabilities . . 31,188 22,503 25,495 65,980
Surplus . . £ 11,079 £87,396 £93.578 £26.903
A mortgage of £36,231 is responsible for the
big growth of liabilities, and the fact that
the "Freeholds, leaseholds, plant and pro-
perty, etc.,” item lias increased from £118,527
to £190,516 in six months, is sufficient ex-
planation for that and the decrease of
liquid assets. The co. has been having a
grand time of late. Wages have been high,
Marianne lias been a luxury, and between
i he two ready-cooked food • has been very
popular. And instead of splashing the cash
out iti dividends, during the past four years
an average of over £15,000 per annum has
been put by. The mortgage will call for a
fair amount <>f interest, and this will have
to be paid whether times are good or bad,
and present good times can’t last for ever.
8o The Bulletin looks forward to an early
attack on the plaster.
The frozen meat trade into which the co.
is evidently now going on a larger scale is
growing, and the amount of beef exported by
N.SAV. during 1013 was 18.172.5751 b.. worth
£247,934, as compared with 7,294,8301 b..
worth £76,180. in 1011 : during the same
period the increase in mutton export has
been from 59,948,9891 b.. worth £682,027.
to 89.454,7791 b., worth £1.215,878; and
6,940.965 pairs of rabbits took sea trips, as
compared with 6.806,446 in 1911. All things
considered the meat trade has had a roaring
time. How much longer it can go on de-
pends on various things, but principally
seasons and the Meat Trust. The former
can have only a temporary effect; but should
the Trust, which is now firmly established
in Queensland, take a hand here, the local
cos. will need to keep their eyes open. The big
Yankee has plenty of ready cash, and won’t
mind paying a risky price for a year or two
to starve the local cos. out. But, of course,
the F. F. & I. has very profitable connections
in th(> other branches, and there would still
be a good thing in it for shareholders even if
the Trust is allowed to do its worst with the
meat freezing business.
* * * *
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added
Dividends and to Re- Re-
Jnne, Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1900 ..£3359 Bp.e.z=£2l2l £1238 £2,318
1901 . . 2.367 8 „ „ 2121 246 2 064
1902 .. 3928 8 „ 2121 1807 4,371
190.3 . . 2546 S .. „ 2121 425 4,796
1904 . . 1576 6 „ 1590 43782
1905 .. 2122 0 „ 1590 532 5,314
1906 . . 2171 6 ~ ~ 1590 581 5,895
1907 . . 3060 8 ~ ~ 2121 9.89 6.834
1908 .. 36.31 9 ~ „ 2386 1245 8.079
1909 .. 2712 8 ~ 2121 591 5.670
1910 .. 2923 8 ~ ~ 21.21 802 9,472
1911 .. 3743 9 „ ~ 2386 1357 10,829
1912 .. 4193 10 ~ 2651 1542 12,371
1913 .. 5496 15 ~ 3977 1519 13,890
1914 .. 5131 10 ~ „ 2651 2480 16,370
Written off £5OO .. .. 15,870
The £5OO is an “appropriation to meet the
expense of moving into new premises.”
Besides that the co. intends to spend about
£14,150 on improvements to the new
premises, which it hopes to inhabit; by the
end of the yeaiv The co. has been doing very
well of late. The profits, with the exception
of those of 1913, are the largest to date,
and the amount put to reserves, even
allowing the £5OO written off. has
beaten the long-standing record of 1002,
when a big sale of Tyson property
brought the eo. in a fat cheque by
way of commission. But. uiiforiunately, a
trustee eo.’s figures arc largely a sign of the
limes. Having all its cash in investments,
it goes up and down with the State more
readily than almost any other concern. And
during recent years Queensland has been all
up—mainly on the strength of borrowed
money; and borrowed money will be a much
scarcer commodity during the next year or
two than it has been in the past few years.
And then the Queensland Trustee’s 10 p.c.
dividend may be in danger. Paid capital
is £25,250, and to protect beneficiaries under
wills, etc., shareholders are liable for another
£176.750. Of the capital and reserves
£20.500 is in Government stock and £4142
cash. Property represents the bulk of the
balance. Trust estates in hand amount to
£2,091.278. against £2,874,938 last year and
£1,408,238 eight years ago. Evidently
Queensland is waking up to the fact that it is
safer to patronise the expert public trust >c
than the unreliable, inexperienced private
citizen.
Willtamstoavn Gas Go. (Vic.): —
W ni-
p'll To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June. 1906.. 1519 9 p.c- 11.25 250 144 6,321
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 .. .. 1125 350 312 6,6.33
June. 1907.. 1653 9 .. .. 1125 250 278 6.911
Dec., 1907.. 1894 10 .. .. 1250 .350 294 7,205
June. 1908.. 1860 10 .. .. 1250 .350 260 7,465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 1250 259 423 7,888
June. 1909.. 2213 10 ... 1250 963 8,851
Dec., 1909.. 2152 10 .. .. 1250 ‘'o2 9,75.3
.Tune, 1910.. 2204 10 ~ 1250 954 10,707
Dec., into.. 2273 10 .. .. 1250 - 162.3 11.730
June, 1911.. 254.3 10 .. .. 1250 - 1293 13.023
Dec., 1911.. 2946 10 „ „ 1250 1696 14.710
June, 1912.. 3265 10 „ „ 1250 2015 16,734
Dec., 1912.. 3301 10 .. .. 1250 2051 18.785
June. 1913.. .3220 10 .. 1250 1970 20,755
Assets apparently written lip, £4245. . 25,000
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. —•
Dec.. 1913.. 3225 6 p.c. = 1500 1725 1,725
June. 1914.. 2771 6 „ 1500 1271 2,996
If you put it that way it shows up the
profit figures, but it gives the written-off
column a very bare appearance. Yet that
is evidently the way the directors intend
that it should be taken. Perhaps the more
correct way would be to write off £l2OO. and
put the profit at £2o2r>. This table will
explain why:— ;
Pec..' 13. -1 une," 14.
General renewal fund . . . . £5OO £7OO
Meter renewal fund.. .. .. 500 1500
Depreciation fund for works on
leaseholds . . . . . . 400 400
Unappropriated . . . . . . 325 390
Total reserves, as per table. . £1725 £2990
Obviously, unless they are misnamed, each
of those funds is there to cover some wear
and tear, and the amounts added to them
should be regarded as written off. while they
themselves should not be included in the
reserves. Other than the amounts added to
those “reserves” there is no visible allow-
ance for depreciation. But a little explora-
tion puts things in a better light. Gas sales
have increased from £272!) in the first half
of 1004 and £4722 in 1009 to £10.700 for
tlie past six months. So that the co. has
doubtless made considerable additions to
mains, etc., of which no mention is made
in the accounts, and this should about bal-
ance any depreciation unallowed for. The
co. has liabilities of £BlO3. of which £5lOB
is owing to the bank, and £0305 of liquid
assets. Most of its land is on a lease with
16 years to run. but the buildings, etc.,
thereon are to remain the property of the
co. when the lease expires.
Goulih; rn Gas Co. (Goullnirn. X.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, ■ 1 90S . £l2lB. 15 p.c. = £750 £ 4«fi £ I 0,142
Dee. 1905.. 972 15 .. ~ 750 222 10,301
June, 1909.. 1117 15 ~ .. 750 307 10,731
Dec;, 1909.. 872 15 ~ ~ 750 122 10,853
June, 1910. . 10.90 15 „,, 750 34 0 11,193
Dec., 1910.. 412 15 „ 750 10,855
June, 1011.. 1081 15 .. ~ 750 331 11,180
Dec.. 1911.. 851. 15 „ 750 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1 174 15 750 424 11.711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982. . .. 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 ~ „ 400 334 4,172
Dec., 1913.. 754 S ~ ~ 400 354 4.520
June, 1914.. 1139 8 ~ ~ 400 739 5,205
After hanging over shareholders’ heads for a
long while the municipal electric lighting
scheme has arrived and gas was cut off from
the street lamps at the end of May. Natu-
rally the figures don’t vet show any shrink-
age. nor are they likely to until the Social-
istic tiger finds his punch. Revenue for the
half-year was. in fact, about £2OO better
than usual, without any corresponding
growth of exes. Still the true net profit in
excess of dividend was probably less than
for, though £lOO was written off plant.
£230 was transferred to a renewal fund, and
this amount is reckoned in with profits in
the table. The cash position is sound : lia-
bilities amount to £537, and there are £3578
of liquid and semi-liquid assets. Plainly the
co. can stand some competition without
endangering the present 8 p.c.
The Newcastle and County Mutual
Building. Land and Investment Co.
(Newcastle. N.S.W.) :
, _ „ Written Rc-
•'une. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1900 .. £1502 4 p.c. = £1024 £631 £5769
1901 .. 14 39 5 „ „ 1281 1209 47 IS
1902 .. 1 710 5 ~ 1281. 708 4439
1903 .. 1543 5 „ ~ 1281 799 3911
1904 .. 1 784 5 ~ 1281 139 4275
1905 .. 1578 5 „ ~ 1281 126 4446
1906 .. 1598 6 „ ~ 1537 390 411 7
1907 . . 1418 5 ~ „ 1281 71 41.83
1908 .. 1524 5 ~ .. 1281 —. 4426
1909 .. 1632 5 „„ 1281 4777
1910 .. 1669 5 .. 1281 5165
1911 .. 1769 5 .. 1281 5653
1912 .. 1825 5 .. 1281 430 5767
191.3 . . 2202. 5 „ 1281 346 6342
1914 .. 3119 7 .... 1793 57 7611
An explanation of the big increase in profits
may be obtained from this comparison:
1899. 1910. 1911. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Deposits 3,362 16,133 18,507 19,367 22,007 24.742
Other lia-
bilities 6,773 2,710 790 621 3,857 2,967
Advances 18,046 34,941 35,572 36,943 43,696 50,069
Properties 24,248 15,306 15,617 15.053 14,751 11,996
The most noticeable movement there is
the property item; and evidently most of
the sales were made at a profit—for “net
revenue from properties” has increased dur-
ing the year from £463 to £1382. That is.
from a return of £3 12s. p.c. to £l3 10s. Gd.
p.c. Assuming that, say. £1)00 came as extra
profit on sales, this would still leave a return
of £482. or £4 14s. p.c. from rents, etc. And
as it is exceedingly unlikely that the least
profitable investments were sold, probably
£lOOO would be nearer the mark as profit
on sales. And as you can't sill your house
and still draw iho rent, nor sell the same
house twice, revenue from that source must
shrink. Apparently the money obtained
from sales has gone into advances, which
show a big increase during the year, and
now amount to only a few pounds short of
the capital (£25,023) and deposits com-
bined. And it is the advance- of a building
society that call for most attention —not so
much the older ones, but the later ones made
on inflated values, and of which very little
has been repaid. As for Newcastle, the
mines are doing a big export trade, or were
until the present dislocation of traffic, and
the advent of the B. IT. Prop. Co.’s' iron
and steel works must make some improve-
ment in certain land values. But at any
time the vacant suburban allotment at New-
castle is a very unprofitable relation.
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co.
(Queensland) :—•
Dividends. Writ-
,l A ■, ten Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. serves.
June, "07.. £1855 9 p.c. 24 p.c. = £678 £ 1177
Dec., '07.. 1917 9 .. 2t ~ ~ 678 1239
June, 'OB.. 1880 9 ~ 21 .. 678 1202
- m Dec., 'OB.. 2047 9 „ 2* „ 678 1,369
June, ’09.. 2229 9 .. 8U ~ ~ 902 1327
Dec., '09..- 2504 9 .. 31 ~ ~ 902 1202 £4OO
June, ’lO.. 2332 9 51 ~ .. 902 1430 400
Dec., TO.. 2931 9 ~ 5 ~ ~ 1302 2029
June, ’ll.. 2843 9 .. 5 .. 1302 1541
Dec., ’ll.. 3188 9 5 .. 1.302 1886
June. ’12.. 331,5 9 .. 5 ~ ~ 1302 2013
Dec;, T 2. . 3627 9 .. 6 „ ~ 1537 2090
Juno, T. 3.. 4083 9 .. 6 .. „ 155,3 2530
Dec.. ’13.. 4380 9 .. 7 .. ~ 1793 1700 887
June, T 4.. 4134 9 7 .. 1794 1227 2000
Another six months of average trading and
the wreckage will be cleaned up after 11
years' hard going. Just over 10 years ago


an
The Personnel of
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is a very serious matter for a Testator's Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
which, having had twenty-eight vears’ experience
and employing an Expert Staff, is much to be
preferred to any private Trustees, no matter
how trustworthy.
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will be sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Ma.na.2fer
R. Copland Lethbridge] Asst. Mgr.
EFFICIENT SERVICE
under all conditions is ensured
by installing
1 H "
n
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
Write for Catalogue to
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney,
Any man who says “This is good enough, let 'or
no, who cares?” is put (ins' the skids under his pro-
-pects. Business to-day is a struggle tor existence
.—every source of profit must yield its fullest, and
every profit leak be stopped. Pulleys that run half-
time are big profit-wasters—-you can cut them out.
though, by using “Pioneer'’ leather belting. Made
from the centre cuts of flawless Australian ox hides,
which are tanned in our own tannery, and honestlv
built up in the big “Pioneer” factory—“ Pioneer"
will give you the utmost use ot your power, with
less strain on shafting and friction bn bearings. Put
your power problems tip to our nearest office.
“Pioneer” leather belting is made only by .1. C.
Ludowici & Son Ltd., “Pioneer” Works, 117
York Street, Svdnev (opp. Q. V. Markets), and sold
in Victoria bv Geo. Russell P’t’y, Ltd., Flinders
Street, Melbourne; in South Australia by J. McKell,
Timpson Street. Port Adelaide; in Queensland bv
Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in IV.
Australia bv Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth :
in Broken Hill bv Ceo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* # * *
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons' Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is‘shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Malieno has recently been fe-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth. *
•# * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that, grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed G 4 of them, and say
‘‘the Hardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it -should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* f 1
• * * *
Extract from The C'itv Review, London, January
17, 1914, re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.: —“This led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of' Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs of the
Society, with the result that we anticipated. Those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investiga-
tion (December 31, 1911) the Society was sound and
solvent, and able to meet all its liabilities, immedi-
ate and prospective, and they expressed the emphatic
opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mis-
management and incapacity - made against the direc-
tors and managers were wholly unjustified.”* i f
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is being used for convey-
ing water to the camps at present in use by our
troops in various parts of the State. Catalogue
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contrac-
tors to all State Governments, 57 York Street, Syd-
ney (head office).*
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 12S-b.lt. p
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines anti Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. Hornsby & Sons, Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne and Brisbane.* [3
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman. Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* # * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton. Orimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd,, who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * •* ♦
Assayers. Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberbero and Co., Ltd., 8 O'Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun's
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh: band sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits: gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals : etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire »
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
the shareholders in this concern wondered
what had struck them. Instead of the
usual “Examined and found correct,” the
auditors reported that “the gas plant,
meters, buildings, fittings on loan and rental,
the electric light machinery, mains and ser-
vices, fittings on loan and rental, are not
of the value set forth in the balance-sheet
of December, 1903.” There were two ways
out of it—writing off a large slice of capital,
or making good the deficiency out of future
profits. The directors “without admitting
this depreciation to exist” chose the latter
device. And. as remarked before, the job
should be completed in six months. This
shows the progress the co. has made: —
Dec., lane, Dec., June,
1903. 1913. 1913. 1914.
liquid assets .. £4,674 £6483 £6441 £7894
Liabilities .. 25,872 9449 8256 8303
Excess liabilities £21,198 £2966 £lBl5 £409
So in 101 years the co. has, by hanging on
to every penny it could, cleaned up over
£20,000 of the wreckage. And though divi-
dends were dropped for a time, of recent
years, as the table shows, there have been
regular payments. And if the shareholders
can be persuaded to be satisfied with what
they are getting until a decent reserve has
been built up (which shouldn't take long)
there are very bright things ahead of them.
Sales of gas for the six months were £0463,
as against £4367 for the corresponding term
five. years ago; and electric light revenue
during the same period has grown from
£OO5 to £1272. Besides a capital of £60.000
the co. has £7OOO of debentures, and no
doubt as soon as the writing down of the
plant is completed, an eye will be turned to
these. As to future depreciation, the direc-
tors can doubtless be relied on to see that
there is no repetition of the old trouble.
Though the parties interested have not so
far adopted The Bulletin’s proposal
w hereby the mining industry might be
financed throughout the war, a start has been
made through the agency of the Common-
wealth Bank at Hampden-Cloncurry (Queens-
land). Advances will he made against blister
copper at the rate of about 600 tons per
month, the metal to be stored at Towns-
ville. The miners will receive the full rate
of pay, half in cash and the other half in
certificates, which will become cash on real-
isation of the metal. At Broken
Hill, the best that has been so far-
done is in the shape of an arrange-
ment whereby the B. H. Prop, under-
takes to smelt for other cos. at half-price.
Apparently some method has been agreed
ll P°n by which advances will be secured
against silver-lead bullion, although there is
a fair market still open for those products
after refining, which can be done on the spot.
Unfortunately this touches only about one-
half the Broken Hill output, inasmuch as the
zinc concentrates cannot be reduced to bul-
lion in any quantity worth mentioning in
Australia. In ordinary circumstances
zinc concentrates are quite marketable, and
they should be quite as good security as
silver-lead bullion. And the arrangement
will not be satisfactory until the interested
parties fix up a scheme for advances on the
concentrates. This would permit the whole
staff of men to be employed. At the same
lime, something should certainly be done for
Ihe smaller copper and tin mines, which,
being now without a market, are in almost
every case closed down. Australia cannot
bear the loss of the metal which these pro-
perties should be producing.
Broken Hill is feeling the effect of the
stoppage of ore-export pretty keenly. Four
ot |- lie big cos. have deferred their dividend
—the . South, Zinc Corporation, North and
Proprietary. The South has taken prac-
tically all its men on again, and is working-
on the alternate-week system. The Pro-
prietary lias altogether only 550 men at
work, and the North 910. The Zinc Cor-
poration’s lead mill is working full handed,
and there is no alteration in the ore-produc-
tion work, <it which about 270 men are
employed; the zinc plant is shut down, and
all development work is stopped. Junction
North is still closed down. By way of
relieving some of the distress, the Govern-
ment has offered to take on 1000 men at the
North Coast railway—which would mean a
trip of something like 1600 miles for them —
and others are being given work on any
local Government jobs.
Wild Cherry (Ardlethan. N.S.W.) talks
in its half-yearly report as if its future
depended entirely on getting the tank full
of water; but the fact sticks out that its
deepest level is at 100 ft., and the lode 56ft.
no the rise was “not so good as last re-
ported.” The main shaft has been cut down
and timbered and cages installed, so haul-
ing can lie done cheaply. This shaft: is
down 121 ft., and another 100 ft. has been
let and work commenced. The average width
of the lode is stated to be 4ft., and the
value 4 p.c. Reserves are calculated at
5983 tons; and taking this lot at a trifle
over 4 p.c. pure tin there are, say, 240 tons
of the metal available against 150,000
shares. Certainly there is ore at grass
valued at £5265, but that item has been
prudently omitted from the balance-sheet
because of the uncertainty of realising.
Altogether the report conveys the impression
that the Cherry is a low-grade mine with a
poor water supply.
.New Salak South, the Melbourne tin eo.
operating in Malaya, has been put into tem-
porary quietude by the uneasy state of the
tin market. Co. had its new plant moving
and was romping through old tailings into
unworked ground when the war struck it.
As the cash-box isn’t too full a whip-up is
to be made to settle for past development
work; and it would be a pity if, after light-
ing adversity for a couple of years, the show
had to stand still because of the pinch of a
few fatmen.
The greatest feat by the Frenchman's Reef,
Daylesford, last half-year is told by the
directors thus: "During the past half-year
it became necessary to purchase a blower,
which has been a great success.” But
even a blower can’t do the mine much good.
Nos. 4 aud 5 levels are derelict, No. 6 shows
but poor quartz, and No. 7 level is painfully
short of stone. Then at No. S it requires
a lot of searching to pick out colors in the
dish from samples broken. Manager Miller
thinks he has a good chance, but the mine
will have to brighten up very considerably
at the two bottom levels if the blower and he
are to continue in harmonious co-operation.
* * * *
Great Southern Consols, Rutherglen,
started long ago with a capital of £2500.
Since then rhe mine has mopped up £64,90.”
of calls, yielded £351,753 of gold, and
paid away £19,000 in dividends. In other
words, it has cost over £416,000 to get back
£19,000. That the claim has a kick left is
due to the vigor with which its barrow has
been pushed, in both Sydney and Melbourne,
by a band of comparative alluvial amateurs.
Their guide at the mine has. been W. J.
Trevillyan. Had he not, while working-
west, run into a new field of wash, all the
nursing in the world wouldn’t have put the
show on its feet. For several months
Trevillyan has been putting in two long-
leading drives off Nos. 1 and 2 shoots. This
work, with a small amount, of panelling, was
responsible for 9450 z. being got from 951
fathoms. If that average is kept up when
the lead is worked on a decent scale, Ruther-
glen will at last have a profitable mine to
gloat over. But the history of the claim
shows that the runs of gold are narrow and
patchy.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta lias made an
arrangement with the >S.A. Government for
carrying on operations during the war. Under-
stood that the scheme is somewhat on the
lines recently suggested by Tine Bulletin.
The Government will make advances to the
co. against its production of copper. In
return, the co. will make itself responsible
to the employees for current rates of wages,
except that part of the wages will be held
back pending realisation of the copper. If
this product is sold at a loss, the damage
is to be equitably distributed between the
men and the co. The Government will
supervise such distribution of losses. (hi
the other hand, if the copper is sold eventu-
ally at a profit, the men will receive the
retention money in full.
*
Westralian Government and Chamber of
Mines are putting their heads together in
regard to providing the mines with a con-
tinuous supply of cyanide and explosives
during the war. There is said to be enough
cyanide in the State to satisfy the wants of
mine-owners for six months and to fatally
dose the whole of the population should it
want to die in that way. Explosives on
hand should last three months, but further
supplies from oversea are expected within
the next few weeks. If the worst happens
the Chamber of Mines intends to devise a
scheme for equal distribution of supplies
among the mines that are associated with it.
llow the small man will get on in that case
is a matter for the Government to think over.
# * * *
Burbank’s Main Lode (W.A.) resumed
gold production last month, when it got 3930 z.
out of 641 tons taken from a depth of 600 to
900 feet. Costs are unknown, but in all proba-
bility the profit didn’t amount to much. At
the time the war broke out the co. was trying
to raise additional funds for development,
etc., in London, but, like almost everyone else,
it will now have to potter along as best it
can until the present hubbub is over and then
take its chance with the mob. Its once pros-
perous but now broken-down neighbor. Bur
bank’s Birthday Gift, crushed in July 3 5 2
ions of tributors’ ore for an lltd wi. return.
Local paper says that there is a good open-
ing for bushrangers at Westons. Twice a
fortnight the Edna May sends a carload of
bullion and the bankings of local business
people to Southern Cross, and brings back
the wages money in the same vehicle. The
average value of the load runs into a few
thousands, and the track is through unin-
habited bush for the most part of the 40-odd-
miles journey. Masked men did bail up the
Lake View trap between Kalgoorlie and
Boulder for much less ihan the Westons car
carries, and the same thing was done on the
Coolgardie-Burbanks road when the Bur-
banks Birthday Gift buggy was stuck up and
robbed. As the thieves got. clear away with
the booty in both cases, the opportunity to
do it again in the case of Westons is con-
sidered to be a particularly good one.
Great Victoria (W.A.), which the Great
Boulder wouldn’t have and the Mountain
Queen thought w»s too dear, is being boosted
by its more-or-less-interested local admirers,
in one section alone there is declared to be
half a million tons of £1 ore, the profit on
which is estimated to be £250,000, minus
£lOO.OOO for a plant. But just one minute.
What about allowances for poor sections
which always seem to occur, and which some-
how are never allowed for; and what about
the hundred and one items of expenditure
which never seem-to bo taken into account?
The attempt made by organised unionism
to uproot the contract system at Yuanme
(W.A.) lias failed. Two months ago the
union decided that Yuanme would have to
knuckle down like the neighboring fields, and
do without contract work. The co. objected,
and the men went into “conference.” Co.
claimed the right to employ miners who
were willing to accept contracts ; but the few
who did were chased out of the place. So
operations were practically at a standstill
until the war broke out. by which time most
of the best men had gone elsewhere. Then
those who stayed behind had a good think,
and finally decided to return to work on
practically the same conditions that pre-
vailed before the dispute, namely, that work
be carried on under the bonus system, which,
in this particular case, is contract disguised.
Ten years ago Nil Desperandum, at Lav
erton (W.A.), was purchased by two ven-
turesome prospectors for £3OOO. Its pre-
vious production was about £6OOO from 455
tons broken from narrow veins, and from
this source a further £20,000 odd was
obtained between'the date of purchase and
the latter end of last year. Then a new
shaft sunk to a depth of 80ft. revealed a big
formation containing bunchy quartz leaders,
and since then an additional £13,000 or
thereabouts lias been won. The shoots occur
in short lenses and assay in places from
soz. to lOoz. per ton. The permanency of
the enrichment is, however, very doubtful.
Marvel. Loch (.W.A.) lives nowadays on
the few odd crumbs that fall from the strug-
gling tributers’ table. A few parties are
rooting out small patches of ore from the
shallow workings of the Loch lease, but the
bullion recovered from the treatment of this
stuff is of low average value, and the
royalties received by the co. don’t amount
to much. The same applies to the Comet
lease, which a number of interested market
admirers reckoned would turn out well when
The Bulletin was equally certain it
wouldn’t. Like a lot of other slioxvs that
have been discredited on this page, ii pro-
vided ore for crushing purposes, but there
was no real profit in the work nor any
return to deluded shareholders.
* * * *
Mountain Queen (W.A.) is apparently
nearing the end. One Holman stamp is
crushing the best of a rather bad lot of
sulphides, and another is dealing with the
remnants of the shallow ground and surface
stuff. When this is exhausted the shutters
will probably be put up.
Comedy King, at Hancocks (W.A.), has
just placed another good crushing to its
credit. This show once formed part and
parcel of the leases worked by the late
lamented Kohinoor Co., and since the pre-
sent owners —four practical miners—got hold
of it, returns have been good. They must
have known something that the co. didn't.
Bullfinch I’rop. (W.A.) is apparently
doing its best to fulfil the chairman’s predic-
tion that the ore bodies isolated by the creep
would be got at very soon. Latest progress
report shows that work is now being pushed
ahead over the No. 2 level, and stoping will
ultimately be extended into the affected area.
Reference is also made to other efforts to
release the imprisoned reserves. Co.’s divi-
dend of 9d. payable this month brings its
distribution to date up to 2s. 9d. If at the
time of the boom anyone had said the mine
was incapable of doing better than this he
would have run the risk of being lynched.
For simply expressing the candid opinion
that, even if the mine was as good as alleged,
the shares were over-valued at par. when
they; stood at a 150-p.c. premium this paper
was torn to ribbons and otherwise mal-
treated by infuriated optimists, who
thought otherwise —and fell in.
* * * *
Edna May is being well watched. A few
wily t’otherside speculators are camped on
or near the mine, and some more have their
tents pitched close by waiting to see how
ihe show is going to shape at 300 ft. The
"granite bar” cut in the shaft and expected
to appear in the crosscut about the middle of
August was relied on to knock the market
down and give insiders a chance to get in
again before the reef was reached. But the
war seems to have spoilt everything. The
crosscut is not being extended as rapidly as
some critics reckon it ought to be, and some
of them accuse the co. of dawdling because
there are no market inducements to get a
move on. As already pointed out, what the
property really wants and what shareholders
and the public ought to clamor for is an
independent inspection both above and below
by an engineer of standing. This would not
harm the mine, and would probably do a
great deal of good. The belief that the
plant is not as good as it might be, that the
system of sampling could be improved upon,
and that there is a tendency on the part
of the Board to market leanings, tells against
the stock somewhat at present.
-X- * ‘ *
Mount Morgan missed the ’bus again with
Laloki, over which it had an option from
Fitzroy. Geologist Frazer, who sampled the
Papuan show for Morgan, turned it down
because he found that the lode cut off at
a fault. Then the Fitzroy rook the
show on again. It appears that the
ore body simply narrowed to a few feet'and
folded northerly as the winze now being
sunk proves that a second louse of 5 p.e.
basic ore is widening rapidly; also that
the No. .‘5 crosscut east has penetrated dense
sulphide, assaying up to 17 p.e.. and is still
going strong.
.Mount Morgan’s latest return for a run
of four weeks is decidedly encouraging. The
total value was £79.995. of which £40,150 was
for copper and £39,845 for gold (Toll tons
tine copper at £55, and 94350 z. line gold) . If
Morgan can continue to produce the yellow
metal at the rate of £500,000 a year, with a
larger value for copper, there is no need to go
into mourning. Certainly a stock of matte
has been converted into blister and more con-
centrates have been smelted, so it may be
premature to rejoice over those improved
results until the bill of costs is presented. It
is some comfort to know that the flotation
system of concentration will save over 2.25
p.e. copper anti 4dwt. gold from siliciotis
crudes, of which Mount Morgan is supposed
to contain more than 1,900,0(10 tons. The
smelter during the four weeks handled
17,607 tons from Mount Morgan, 3770 tons
from Many Peaks, 1667 tons of mill concen-
trates anti 646 tons of secondary products.
There are 768 tons of conceittra los on hand
containing 47 tons of eoppei and 4i6oz. gold,
indicating an average of over 6 p.e. with
I2dwt.
m. * -4
(‘‘Wild Cat ” continued on page S-i.)


i ■-
: ; Charles
i Hei dsiecks
f ! Vintage 1906
HE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
A LETTER FROM BROKEN HILL.
SOCIAL LADIES WHO POSSESS WEAK NERVES
SHOULD READ AND REMEMBER THIS PROFES-
SIONAL OPINION.
“Mica Street, Broken Hill, 24/1/13.
“For months past I have been pleased to notice
nurses from all parts of Australia expressing in the
press their sentiments regarding your valuable medi-
cine, I qualified for the profession forty years ago,
and keep to it because I love to help the sick. In
earlier life 1 mas ASSOCIATED WITH SOME OF
ADELAIDE'S CLEVEREST SURGEONS, and nursed
their patients. Until twelve years ago 1 was nursing
in S. Austrlaia, but since then I have been nursing
at Broken Hill. I have had lengthy experience and
ran endorse every word other nurses have sa-’d about
Clements Tonic. In forty years I have h(/ the care
of hundreds of poor sick people. I huve been a close
observer of the-effect of medicines, and years ago I
was satisfied Clements Tonic hud t.o equal, and still
hold that opinion.
“(Signed) NURSE MENZIES.”
In order that this medicine may be ob-
tained, all Chemists and Stores sell it all
over all Australia. When travelling or
touring to any oversea parts it would be
best to include a few large bottles as a
necessary part of the travelling equipment.
COGNAC
OTAR
Otard-Dupuy &, Co. BRANDY
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
011 est ne le roi FRANCOIS FL de France.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 31, 1914.
.My Dear A him. —
The N.S.W. branch of the Wattle Day
League will take its little spade to the new
Zoo area at Athol on September I—a1 —a back
number when this greets you. J. 11. Maiden,
Botanic Gardens chief, is president of the
league. Mrs. Agnes Kettlewell (who, with
Mrs. Clunies-Itoss, helped to buttonhole the
notion of Wattle day) is lion, secretary.
Spade work was timed for 3 p.m.
As some of the younger and more frisky
Scientists are alleged to have wanted a
dance, the Mayoral ball persisted in its ori-
ginal intention of being a dance and not a
funeral —I mean conversazione. Our Town
I lall, in which we usually gaze at legions of
Austrian chairs —when the public is cutting
down its expenses for concerts —was hand-
somely trimmed with floriculture laid on
with care. The great dome lights were
tactfully veiled in blush pink petticoats.
Hence the whitewashed countenances of our
Itest People—heavily smeared this season
with chalky paste to show the cannined lips
in sharp contrast —looked more human than
usual.
Mayor Richards, strongly entrenched be-
hind the rabbit-skin of office, with the civic
gold cable hung about his neck; and Mrs.
Mayoress, very smart in heliotrope drapery,
waited to clutch the hands of the tramping
hordes who made a bee-line through the vesti-
bule. Town Clerk Nesbitt and deputy T.C.
Layton (who was herald to the invading
forces and declaimed their names that all
might hear) lurked at the same outpost.
The learned Lodge and his mild lady (a
homely smiling , British matron with no
frills), the heredity expert Bateson and
his tall dame (who has a frivolous fancy
for cigarettes) and scores of simple learned
men. absently trailing a yard or two ahead
of their legal ladies, steered for the yellow
muslin canopy at the far end. The Strickland
sub-regal procession stamped forward to the
same address which was designed to shelter
their stars and garters and gout. The organ
thundered forth the National Anthem. So
did an orchestra in the eastern gallery. But
the orchestra hadn’t the same pressure of
thunder, and it walloped “God Save” about
half a bar behind the double forte stops at
the other end of the hall. It was a great
race, but the huge piped instrument won by
a gigantic final bellow.
The Harley-street specialist, Yorke-
Davies, L.R.C.P., who died a while ago,
was the present Admiralty lady’s father.
He hailed from a town in North Wales,
where his male parent, one Nathaniel
Davies, was headmaster of the local Gram-
mar School. The late Yorke-Davies threw
North Wales to the four winds and carved
out a distinguished career in medicine. In
the process he contributed several publica-
tions to the healing profession. Lady Patey
is the only daughter of this well-known
authority on the things we should and should
not eat.
Mr. Killiani, formerly Consul-General for
Germany in this port, boarded the Ventura
with his wife and family. Presumably
they are bound for Berlin, via the States.
That agitated city will be such an unpleasant
address in a month or so that one wishes
the kindly Killiani pair, who were much
liked here, the good luck to keep a few
thousand miles clear of Fatherland for a
while.
The Ventura took the two Austrian con-
sulate officials, the Consul and his second
in command, away from Australia. If
diplomatic etiquette demands that these un-
lucky foreigners shall present themselves —
for further orders —in Vienna, etiquette is a
mighty foolish frill. Austria, by the time
these travellers reach its shores, will have
declared war on nearly everything except
the Sandwich Islands and King Solomon’s
Mines. The necessity for being a Consul
under these circumstances is not very
apparent.
A rush of concerts and other side-shows
for the Patriotic Fund is surging through
this city. The Millions Club of N.S.W. was
responsible for one of these efforts the other
evening. Our Town Barn reverberated with
songs, breathing an unshaken desire to “Fire
a Shot for the Empire” (Dulcie Deamer’s
contribution to the performance), or “Send
a Message to the Mother Land” (per medium
of Malcolm McEachern’s large baritone).
Mrs. Slapoffski. in a gown that glittered nil
over like cut glass (colored in stripes), did
her patriotic best. Bryce Carter, on the
’cello, and Henry Staell, behind the fiddle,
may be hurriedly mentioned in a list of per-
formers that stretched from here to Dan and
thence to Beersheba and South Head. A
choir of young children, on the platform.
squeaked like trained mice when the organ
belched forth the National Anthem. If glory
or fighting was mentioned at any time —
which it frequently was—during this enter-
tainment, the choir shook its hair-bows and
its flags, and assumed a fierce, warlike atti-
tude, to loud applause from an adult audi-
ence.
President of the club, Arthur Rickard,
and general secretary Albert Goldie
laid in wait for the official flock, which
trooped into the leather seats reserved for its
distinguished presence. Miss Strickland,
attended by Help Wakeman (who assiduously
passed the programmes round), Mayor
Richards and Mrs. Mayoress, and others
(who are not mentioned because I didn't
recognise their back hair) in this party
were then dogged by two youngsters in fancy
dress. One looked like Nelson at the age
of 10 —as the costumiere always dresses him
for a children’s party—and the other was a
tar of about the same size. These heroes
having presented the official bouquets, retired
in good order, to stare steadfastly at the
gurgling enthusiasm of the choir.
Captain Leslie Wilson, a one-time Aide
on Governor Rawson’s staff, was in the
Marines till lie retired to a snug seat in
the. House of Commons. Now he’s probably
packing his kit to join his former mates at
Ostend. Wilson, M.P., made liis maiden
speech, on Defence, in March last. In spite
of some of the Opposition replies being on
the lines of John Brown’s attitude in Du
Maurier’s “An Englishman’s Home,” Colonel
Greig (Opposition) congratulated the young
politician, and then fell with mild slaughter
on the coat-tails (figuratively, of course) of a
Noble Lord or fossil named Tullibardine.
Captain Wilson, who married one of the
wealthy Smith girls (she used to live in the
old red house, Goderich, Darlinghurst), took
a neat undercut out of the War Office in
his preliminary canter over a now thrilling
subject.
I)r. Storie Dixson has been handling some
of the local ambulance classes which are
writhing all over in frantic efforts to band-
age themselves. Our girls are tying them-
selves into knots with such enthusiasm that
they’ll develop into first-class acrobats long
before Australian piano legs show signs of
compound fracture.
Arthur Streeton’s show in the R.A.
Society’s rooms lifts those bleak walls into
vivid life, laid on canvas with a bold brush.
Streeton handles sea and sky with a virile
force that smacks the color on in gorgeous
flakes, lit up by wonderful searchlights of
sunshine. Or he paints a slice of dark
purple velvet midnight, frames it in a
casement window, and calls it “A Corner
of my Dining-Room.” The show is still
going on.
Dr. George Simpson, one of the younger
British scientists, came out from England
in the same Orient craft that brought
Dorothy Stephen, a daughter of the late
C. B. Stephen, back to her native Sydney.
The engagement has only been mentioned
in a soft whisper as I write. It will pro-
bably be announced with a flourish before
this reaches you. Miss Stephen has been
wandering abroad with her easel, through
the now desolated land of Belgium and other
foreign climes, for the last 18 months. Dr.
Simnson is official weather prophet to the
Indian Government and searches the sky
for gathering storms from the hilltops of
Simla.
“Snowy” Baker is rounding up events for
a gigantic sports carnival on September 7
in aid of the Patriotic Fund. It is a fine,
healthy fund, but it needs all the cash we
can stuff it with for the next number of
months. (Number of months depends
partly on the luck of .Toffre’s army, and
partly on the speed with which Rennen-
kamph and co. step out on the long road to
Berlin.) The show begins on the Agricul-
tural Ground in the afternoon. Brass
bands, cyclists on puffing motor-bikes, fire
brigades, a tug-of-war (a seasonable topic),
tent-pegging, wrestling on horseback, and
quite four dozen yards more of special
attractions are booked for the daylight effort.
The Stadium will collect in the evening any
coins the afternoon rally missed. French
and ’Murcan boxers, just arrived, will punch
each for patriotic purposes. Massed
bands are going to raise the Stadium roof,
more or less, with a fierce fight for pre-
cedence. On the lighter side, city newsboys
are sworn “to do or bust” in a meat-pie
eating competition.
Artist-writer Hugh McCrae, of this hamlet,
left London in the Lusitania for New York
towards the end of July.
In London, the United Committee for the
Taxation of Land Values, recently so far
unbent from its duty of squeezing the British
taxpayer to give an evening party. The
truest of honor was Mr. George Fowlds, of
Maoriland.
The calico knight’s brisk lady, Mrs.
McMillan, was booked to leave for Europe
this month. Possibly she will wait a bit
longer in this peaceful clime. As one of
the local dames who rushed round to organ-
ise the rites of hospitality to the Scientific
Whiskers, the McLipen lady had to unravel
some queer lists in which the writing of
would-be hostesses was beautifully illegible.
One correspondent, who was fiercely indig-
nant when the best efforts to decipher her
signature appeared in print, sent another
illegible explanation that her name was not
Humpvbong, but Tweedledoodle, or so on.
After a board of experts had torn this docu-
ment almost to ribbons, to try and drag its
secret from its muffled pothooks and broken
hangers, a wise woman rose up to say she
knew the lady, and could vouch for it she
was Smith.
Hospital ship No. S glided out of this
sunlit bay the other day. Destination un-
known till the skipper ripped open his sealed
or gummed orders off the coast. Dr. Hors-
fall, R.N., the Hippocrates or Galen in com-
mand, has as first aid Dr. F. G. Stephens,
the able, spectacled young medico from the
peaceful lawns of Rose Bay. These two
were mates in the matter of walking overseas
hospitals a few years ago. The accident •
of their being connected with the pre-
sent expedition may be called the long claw
of coincidence. 1 )r. Stephens is a grandson
of one of Sydney ’Varsity’s early professors
of that name, who specialised in beetles, and
chased winged insects with a trawl. Prince
Alfred Hospital nightingales were picked
presumably by the long arm of Influence,
which is a factor not to be sneezed at -
for the hospital ship’s nursing staff.
Douglas Mawson has put on a pound or
two of flesh since he left here, a lean, sad-
eyed survivor of the long Polar journey
alone (when Ninnis fell into eternity through
a crevasse, and poor Mertz passed
out in delirium), and looks much the better
for his trip to England. His lectures here
emphasised the fact that scientists and
travellers who have a good story to tell ought
to be taught how to tell it. Only a limited
number of sharp-eared persons in front seats
could catch any consecutive thread of the
Antarctic tale. An unlimited number passed
the evening staring at Hurley’s interesting
pictures of the Great Freeze, and hearing
nothing but the lecturer’s occasional rebuke
to the lantern-slide mechanist. (N.B. —
Have you ever noticed that the lecturer and
the lantern-slide man are generally at odds?)
These pictures are likely to incite any
schoolboy who sees them with a frantic
desire to be a South Pole stowaway or an
explorer of glaciers in his nearest suburb.
The Madeline Collins farewell concert
in the Town Hall is still advertised for
September 22 —“prior to her departure for
Europe.” Italy is remaining fairly calm.
Terhaps the youthful Sydney soprano will
be bustled off to Milan to finish her vocal
gymnastics. There’s a small colony of Aus-
tralasian students in that picturesque spot.
Amongst them are Eudwig Schafer, the
Prowses of M.L., Rita and Eugenia Hazon.
Cecil Sherwood and Stanley Leadley. (If
things grow any worse in Europe I am
authorised to mention that the University of
Santiago, in Chili, is a high-class place for
the study of foreign languages, also medi-
cine, science and arts. My informant hasu’t
been there, but he has friends who have pur-
sued knowledge at Santiago.)
The Red Cross Depots are rushed with
every kind of gift the infant population is
frantically buying out of its pocket money
for the Expedition. Lead-pencils and letter-
pads are the favorite juvenile notion of the
requirements of an armed force, and these
expressions of its goodwill threaten to assume
alarming proportions. Feminine intelligence
is leaking over the limit in the matter of
safety-pins. Some of this stock is rather
smaller than harpoons, and numerous enough
to pin up portion of the enemy to its own
place on the map. So much of this wild
endeavor might be trimmed into shape, that
an organiser of the gift department is
urgently needed.
Mrs. Ernest Favenc, widow of the
bearded Australian explorer, is an Author-
ity on anything a woman can stick her
needle into. As an expert knitter she up-
holds the statement that a heel-less sock,
properly made, is the thing of the moment.
Having been flatly contradicted on this sub-
ject of soldiers and yarn, at a Red Cross
depot, where some of the knitting is too bad
to be mentioned in detail. Mrs. Favenc has
now copywriglited her directions for mak-
ing a heelless sock for Atkins at the front.
This is not slumped together in the old
rule-of-thumb fashion —after the bed-sock
style—but has a kind of waist that, when
it is shrunk, fits the instep. Patou prints
the Favenc method this week, and you can
get it in any of the leading shops where
Red Cross goods are on the counter. The
object of this sock —as I told you before—
is the fact that it fits any marching foot
from size six to size 10.
Dr. Crago, of this town, has been com-
paring notes with some of London’s big-
wigs in the healing art. Guthrie Rankin,
M.D., one of the Harley-street eminents,
recently gave an impressive meal in honor
of the Sydney man. This was attended (not
professionally, of course) by famous persons
who can tell you exactly where you have a
pain before you put out your tongue.
Miss Evelyn Morgan Shaw, the honorary
organising secretary of the Patriotic People’s
concert —which pa.cked our Town Kara the
other evening—can now shake hands with
herself. Every local brand of Consul who
is on speaking terms with Us and Mother
Britain, trooped in to the show. And the
shillings—which go to the Mayor’s Fund-
fell over the body of the hall to the utter-
most glass door.
The Nurses’ Club Ball llu> other evening
was apparently a successful affair—consider-
ing all things. The Salon de Luxe, where
hang dangling sprays of giant flowers in a
semi-tropic twilight, was the place. Honorary
secretaries Misses Neil O’Connell and Cox
dashed hither and thither to see that
all went well. A professional tribe —from
the Pill and Blaster brigade—lent their
heavily swallowed representatives to the
occasion. Mrs. Joseph Carruthers, a tail
dame, with a neat coiffure of sleek hair done
low on her cranium, was rushed with the
usual floral tribute that the president of a
ball committee is supposed to hold in close
embrace till the last tram or the family
chaise whirls her homo. .Airs. McEvilly got
away with the primary sartorial flourish of
the Nurses’ party. This item, which was
silky black to the w T aist, and foam white to
the shoulders, was another brilliant example
of the success of magpie plumage. Two
long chains of jetty beads glittered like cut
coal (I suppose you could cut coal into
inky diamonds) from neck to waist.
News comes along that the youthful Aus-
tralian fiddler, Lionel Lawson, and his
parents are in London. After a tour over
Europe they were booked to spend the boy's
long summer vacation with a British rela-
tive. The Sydney student’s best record to
date is the fact that he played Gernstein’s
Concerto in Berlin in the presence of the
composer. The great man took it in good
part and highly commended the player, so
all must have been well. 1 hear, on indiffer-
ent authority, that when a crack foreign
musician does not take a performance in
good part the performer leaves his presence
in several pieces with the battered remnants
of his fiddle in a coal-scuttle.
Another Australian girl, the only daughter
of J. D. Fitzgerald, of town-planning and
journalistic note here, is forging ahead as a
singer. As “Signorina Ara” the girl, who
is just old enough to have recorded her vote
in her native land, has recently scored a big
student success at Volterra, near the ancient
town of Florence. The Sydney damsel
studied with Bouhy in Paris for 15 months,
but finding the climate trying, went to Milan
to place her soprano legiere (a fine, upstand-
ing expression of vocal merit) under Borglii,
a well-known teacher thereabouts. Miss
Fitzgerald made her student d6but in Vol-
terra in Verdi’s melodious “Traviata.” Local
papers noted that her success increased at
each performance in her season of four nights
a week up to August 27. As the girl is tall
and slim, Italians who are accustomed to see
ladies with figures like feather beds, dying
of consumption in the leading female role,
had an extra bit of realism in the Aus-
tralian singer’s graceful appearance. “Trav-
iata,” by the way, was almost killed at its
first production in Venice (1853) by the
size of the Violetta, of the day —Donatelli,
who was a champion fat lady. When this
huge heroine was pronounced by the doctor to
be wasting away and unable to live more
than a few hours, the audience became so
uproarious with laughter that Verdi wrote
next day: “Is the fault mine or the
actress’s?”
Mr. G. Nicol, a big leather merchant of
this town, has been doing the British rain-
fall with his missus and light baggage. So
thoroughly has he done it that he has
unfurled his umbrella from Orkney to
London. Orkney, which is Mrs. Nicol’s
native rock, was their address at the end of
last month. In Glasgow the travellers met
the veteran journalist, G. C. Craig, who got
back to that smokeful city a while ago after
a long experience of the Inky Way in Aus-
tralia. The tourists had arranged an August
tour through France and Germany on their
way home to Sydney town. Circumstances
over which they had no control indicate that
this trip is off.
The British Australasian says that,
providing you can prove that you are not
a suffragette on the rampage, Dictionary-
maker Johnson’s old house in Gough-square
(London) is open to visitors. It now be-
longs to Cecil Harmsworth. The Society
of Women Journalists recently munched
the shortbread of afternoon tea under the
Johnsonian roof. Included in the party
was an Australian damsel who shed a heel
on the ancient staircase. None of the com-
pany was trusted with a hammer to repair
the damage. So the lady was finally heeled
and soled by four policemen, an inspector
and the caretaker. All these were on the
premises in case any of the Pankhurst
lambs were frisking round with butchers’
knives.
News blows in that Captain _ Wallis,
recently on the Strickland staff, is in camp
at Broadmeadows (Vic.), where the weather
lias a sharp, wintry nip in it o’ nights. The
expedition puts its best foot forward shortly.
Tours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
mt
Sfc.
&
m
■
5
K
yZ“
■ ->■
* Z
s*r
m
77
7y7
J? :r
4?
t y
//'
yV
s#
1r
x;
r&L
. ■ ;.
&
7"
A?
<V//
X
Ak
a
ss K.;
W 5
/■/
/
r-
77
sra
.y-r
s#*
1
z
Vj
7J
/fJ
///
//
fJ
7,
fJ
////..$ fA*ys
//./AA/A, n?Jt
y/
/V
//
f--\/
ni
/z
y.y
&
-■ V
z
7//;#
W Z // /
/ //
;■ :' - ;■:
yy
V
v.y
hiS
\
X
'V jr . y
2^
/*
:o
7~7w
■ ,'s '-. ‘“ '. V
* ,
.x
v.
: y \
r* ;v ‘
. ;^^yvy ; “;'ZT|
>iSk’7U‘‘ a
AuI&UiAMA
sf 7
- p
*v.. *j’BJ4J
w>**4#
; f *£mr~ r \
o
Xs’, ©■■
X
.X
'“Tr^
m***u
*s» f IVa^^“Ws
X
y
fiW»
H /
x*.
x s
:...*c
„/7
%
y>;
s®?SXs^&
xy
r i (K
■<■‘l7*'
4^
* r
iM CL
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Drops bombs from
The silent blue.
Straight to earth
1 hey flash. “Look out
Soldiers raise
A warning shout.
But each bomb
A welcome wins,
For they scatter
“COBRA" tins.
War or wet
It bears the brunt ;
“COBRA” s a/wa
At the front.


Farmer’s Smokers’ Sundries
Specially Selected High-Grade Goods, Hand-
some in Appearance and Splendid Value.
ń
ņ
ň
KOI. — V armor's specially-
selected old llriars, with
heavy sterling Silver Mounts
and real Amber Mouthpieces.
Straight, 12/0. 14/0,
15/-, 17/0.
Bent, 12/0, 14/0, 15/0,
1 7/0 each.
|{o2. “Mecca” Cigarette
Holders, Gold mounted, in
Goudron and Colored Mother
of Pearl, with Quill Mouth-
pieces; in Morocco Case.
Prices, 17/(5, 20/-, 22/6
each.
ROB. — i ''anner’s specially-
selected old Briars, with heavy
Gold Mounts and real Amber
Mouthpiece?.
Straight, 21/-. 22/0, 25/-
Rent, 21/-, 25/- each.
Fanner's Pay Carriage to any Part of Australia.
FARMER’S,
PTTT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY
DUNLOP
CARDEN
HOSE
•
f
J_
Always
ask for...
DUNLOP
HOSE.
The Price is
Reasonable -
whilst its....
Quality and
Construction
ensures you
years of
Service and
Satisfaction.
Obtainable Leading
Stores but accept
only “Dunlop” brands
JR 3R
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
MOTORISTS
can have Extra Service
without Extra Cost
if they fit their Cars with
DUNLOP
TYRES
This is the experience of
thousands of motorists in this
country —they having tried all
makes, and found “Dunlops”
easily the BEST for Wear
and Satisfaction.
Try one of the latest
“ DUNLOPS,” and note
the mileage!
OBTAINABLE ALL DEPOTS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States
and N.Z.
fWm
• >
« /,«
,r^-
“_ At
.*>,
I H C
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Meehopkne, Aeiuast :>i, IUI4.
My I)eau Yahkie.
A colonel of my acquaintance well nigh
burst with angry contempt upon jny- new
study carpet, last week, on the waste
of time involved in women making
pyjamas for the soldiers. I wont
quote his language, my dear, for it
was far too military, nor the chief points of
his argument, for they would unquestion-
ably bring the blush of embarrassment to
the cheek of Gentility.” Enough that I bad
it straight from the stable, that pyjamas are
no more <lc rii/iuur, on active service, than
hot-water bottles or bed socks. The futility
of them lies chiefly in the circumstance that,'
once the bloodshed really starts, no one- litis
time to put the wretched things on. My
friend the colonel didn’t take his shirt off
for six months the last time he went cam-
paigning. As to bis trousers—but let us
pass on to other topics.
Despite repeated warnings as to the utter
futility of much of their work, many of our
Very Best wives—languid dailies who
habitually breakfasted in bed in the frivo-
lous past —may be seen in Collins-street at.
all sorts of weirdly early hours these morn-
ings. They trek in armies to patriotic sew-
ing bees. Some go to the Town Hall, others
to the Quamby Club. They are noticeable
by, reason of their race frocks and feathered
hats —incongruous garments which are
donned on the off-chance that a Covernoress
may drift in to supervise their labors. To
be found by Lady Helen working for the
Empire in homespun would J>e insupport-
able. The army advances with tremendous
pomp, while the depressed city clerk and
ihe slim typewriter maiden dodge round it
like hurried light traffic in the vicinity of a
fleet of steam-rollers. They have just as
much right of way as a belated gravel train
on a busy single line.
On Thursday evening there was an
Empire party in the open-air gymna-
sium, on the lofty double roof of
the Auditorium. A gift was the price of
admission. A fair-haired Amazon stood by
a clothes-basket at the head of the lift. Into
the basket were dump, d mysterious brown-
paper parcels. They were poured in at such
a rate that two other Amazons were kept
busy emptying the contents into the big bath
of the establishment. Implicit trust was
placed in the honor of the visitors. Anyone
hard up for the price of a “gift” could have
heaved in half a brick (respectably dressed
in brown paper), and no one would have
been the wiser. To our credit be it said,
that not one brick was unpacked. Crowds
of our most talented artists risked their
priceless throats by singing in the open air.
Miss Anne Williams fixed up the pro-
gramme. Gertrude Johnson encased herself
to the chin in a peacock-blue wrap and
warbled “Vilanelle.” She ought to he study-
ing in Italy, by the way, but her mother
won’t let her go in the present rotten state
of Denmark.
Roach, secretary of the Associated Banks,
dropped high finance for a time, and took
•girls up to -see the view of a lamp-lit city
from the windy upper roof at ninepenee-
each-a-time extra. Miss Ethel Webb and
Miss Lorimer pumphandled visitors and
then fed them with coffee and cake. The
results of the affair went to the Mayoress’s
Fund. Mrs. Ilennessy bought tickets, but
was too busy to join personally in the revels.
Melba had a cold, and sent her presents
instead of her presence, and the Creswell
dame was another notable absentee.
The afternoon show at Her Majesty's on
Friday was a tremendous affair. Money
was torn from people in handfuls. The
brigandage began in the street outside, where
two pretty girls, Stella Swift and Alma
Phillips, sold sweets at a price greater than
that of rubies. The usual army of profes-
sional Bassiety beauties, performed their cus-
tomary duties in the way of fleecing -the mul-
titude. A number of this corps, by. the way.
have deserted and joined the matrimonial
legion, and Charity is the poorer thereby.
Once a Society girl has captured a husband,
slie seems to lose all desire tb be helpful and
patriotic, and so on, and frequently cuts poor
old Charity dead the first time she meets her
after the honeymoon. ’The Governor-General’s
speech from the throne —I mean the box —
was rendered somewhat gloomy by. his
environment. In many respects it resembled
a speech from the tomb, which is a notoriously
depressing sort of oration. The shadows at
(lie hack and the limelight in front turned
his white curly hair into a halo and gave
him the appearance of a “manifestation” at
a seance. All I could see of what I was
assured, by one of my most reliable social
scouts or heelers, was Lady Helen was a
large, white silk collar and a red sash. It
seems a hit fragmentary for identification
purposes, but if vice-regalities will lurk in
artificial caverns what is a harassed literary
person to do about it? A nebulous Aide
glimmered phosphorescently in (be extreme
background. He became a Voice later in
the day, when a brazen young thing on the
stage auction:d a Union .lack. Or. perhaps,
it would be more accurate to term him a
Whisper. 11 is gently murmured bids were
on behalf of his Ex. The bidding slacked
oil: as regards the mere groundlings when
the £2O mark was reached, leaving the issue
to Mr. Ikl ward Solomon and the Governor-
General. It was a great go. Now Mr.
Edxvard would be on top, now Sir Ronald.
Amidst terrilic excitement Jerusalem defeated
Scotland with a bid of one hundred guineas.
Tallis, of the J.C.W. Co., bought the emblem
hack for £do at a later auction, one of the
rare occasions in history where a Hebrew
has voluntarily sacrificed £7~> on a deal.
Tallis and his womankind Milled a box. and
Mrs. DavuDSyme, in an ermine collar and
cloak, had a party in the pen opposite. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme, dressed effectively in black,
inhabited a third orifice, and a blurred mass
of the Very Host occupied the half-light of
the stalls and dress-circle. Beatrice Day, cut
out of her recitation by the length of the pro-
gramme, sold sweets and flowers in retalia-
tion. . ~ ‘ '
The Seawichiness of the vice-regal party
was soothed by the first stagey item, played
by the “Runty” Co. from the King’s. Julius
Knight put, on something from flic time of
the French Revolution, which enabled biiiv
to appear in pale green legs, with haggy
Futurist-looking trousers of dark moss green,
lie also wore the flaxen curls of extreme
youth, and was in other respects beautiful
enough to eat 1 .
Roberts —in a suit as near to khaki as his
tailor would permit, and the yellowest hoots
in the Southern Hemisphere- sang vigor-
ously of Australia’s foes, bands, courage, and
so on. The big show amused all concerned
tremendously, and was worth £l4OO to the
Patriotic Fund.
Nor Avas it the end by any manner of
means.
The city was utterly disorganised the
whole of Saturday by a Patriotic Fund con-
tinuous matinee at Her Majesty’s. Brass
bands were poured in from the suburbs, with
a reckless disregard for consequences, and
they blew the populace before them into the
theatre. It was a line spectacle and xvorth.v
of the brightest annals of the race. Banners
Haunted in advance of the bands, reminding
old historical students of Oiidenarde and
Fontenoy. What though Germany was re-
sponsible both for the music and the flags’/
To such a pitch of patriotic ardor Avere we
stirred that Ave pushed along ready to sacri-
fice any coin, in reason, for the Cause. There
were two raffles —tlie Plinuners’ £2O in the
morning, and Gaunt’s bracelet watch in the
afternoon. The drawings took place on tin*
stage. When the Avinning number for the
watch was announced an excited squeal cairn*
from the gods : “It’s mine ! It’s mine !” And
a bundle of girl nearly toppled into the stalls.
As I said before, the Imperial feeling Avas
tremendous. Governor Stanley made a stir-
ring patriotic speech in the morning, and his
commanding-officer, Ferguson, folloAved with
another in the afternoon.
As soon as the State chieftain had got
through his turn he gathered up his wife and
motored off for a Aveek-end at Werribee Park
To slmw you the pernicious social ignorance
of the masses, I may mention that a female
sitting near me, at the matinee, insisted that
the mansion belonged to the Pursey Cliirn-
sides. When I explained—speaking as an ex-
pert in such matters —that it Avas the pro-
perty of the George branch of the family, she
got quite annoyed. It is the sort of place
Avliere you can play polo, cricket, golf, tennis,
and the fool all day, and have a flock of foot-
men to look on, with sympathetic interest,
during the proceedings.
Melba has decided that if vocal effort can
save the Empire she Avill deliver the goods.
Consider her programme for September.
She is to give a big concert in Melbourne
on Thursday in aid of the Patriotic Fund.
Also she Avill sing at Lilydalo for a local
branch of the movement, and again at War-
burton, 1 bough this latter is merely a local
charity Avithout martial frills on it. After
that she descends on Sydney and sings some
more. MeanAvhile she is busy selling tickets
—her lurk being to write to friends of known
affluence and hint that they should pay a
fiver or so for a guinea seat. If they don’t
pay up it proves they have been laying
mines in the North Sea and helping to burn
old. picturesque Louvain.
Dolly Hammond Clegg (who, as I told
you in a previous letter, married young
llalL the mining magnate, the minute war
Avas declared) has been left a grass widoAv
in London. As T remarked before, he has
gone to the Avar. I may mention, at the risk
of appearing boresomely repetitive, that he
belongs to a crack cavalry regiment. I
might unbosom myself further on this sub-
ject. hut our censor has his watchful eye on
me.
Lieutenant Griffiths Bowen, of the Aus-
tralian Navy, hurriedly married his best
girl at All Saints’, St. Ivilda, before leaving
for tlie cannon’s mouth. The anxious bride
Avas Grace Bell, daughter of the Engineer-
in-Chief for the Commonwealth Railways.
The late Professor Peterson's little girl,
who married Captain Ma<k\vorth a year
ago, is planning to go to England as soon
as hubby leaves here willi the Expedition-
ary Forces.
The Rita Weigall-Xeil Lamb knot-tying
on Wednesday afternoon was a bright speck
on the horizon. The golden-haired bride
wore crepe do chine draperies, which breathed
"Vive la France!" from every fold. Motor-
President Weigall led his daughter up the
aisle, a solemn young Seawteh man by name
of Johnston conducting the Lamb to the sac-
rificial altar. A big and little Weigall sLter.
gracefully upholstered in blush pink, trekked
after the bride.. Surgeon O'Hara began the
speechifying at- the wedding-feast. The
patei'nal oration was a line effort. Amongst
other things he remarked : "1 am not: given
to quoting poetry, hut to-da,\ being tin ex-
ceptional one, ! may su.v of my wile, in the
words of Tint. Buiaktjn poet: 'Ey cripes!
I wish there were rwo-.nf here; •”
Elsie Kosininsky Jonh is a grass widow at.
present, her doctor husband httvtng been
called to Qm ensi iiff Oil military duty.
The Plaza committed a -Mask Hall on
Wednesday night. There were tiger lilies
decorating the ceiling, and gay-colored lamps
ife-hanging, and (lie ragtime orchestra was
IR its best. Miss Rowen dressed and brought
along a dozen children in an Advance Aus-
tralia costume, and Airs. Fred Y\ inslow
had a tribe of small but vigorous Red
Indians to look after. Mrs. Edmonds
brought her party in a motor-’bus. It (the
party) was composed of all the youngsters
of her acquaintance who had been dis-
appointed lately because of postponed
parties. Fancy-dress parties were to have
lieeii popular this winter, and the wails
of children possessed of frocks they couldn't
use have desolated the suburbs. -Mrs.
Edmonds wore an Asiatic outfit, whereas
she togged her small daughter in baby
fashion, and dubbed her the Home Killer.
Rosie Simmonds, who does Gcnec-pattcrn
100-dancing, appeared in a few rose petals
and won a prize. The children got away
home at midnight, sleepy and supper-fed, and
then some grown-ups came along for a
belated dance. Amongst the latter were
Mrs. du Blare and a party of girls and
attendant young men : Airs. Lemmono. who
is grass-widowing in South Yana while
hubby is living at Coombe Cottage ; and a
party of Futurist-dressed girls and Pierrots
efficiently disguised by masks.
Douglas Afawson lectured in our chilly
Town Hall on Saturday night. lie had a
good house, but performed under the com-
fortless conditions of a bleak, uncurtained
platform and before a picture-screen that
was hung like a warped postage stamp in
the middle of the organ.
The Fergusons were there—Lady Helen
muffled to the eyes in a fur coat and collar.
Mayor llmnessy ushered them in. courtier-
like, before climbing on to the platform to
introduce the hero of the evening.
Afawson is a long, long, thin man with
a nervous manner. lie bowed himself
double with a great portfolio of notes under
his arm, preparatory to fixing up, his reading
desk as though it contained a live- bomb,
lie has had intensely interesting experi-
ences. but. like so - many men of action, lie
finds it hard to describe them, ft is not
improbable that Ik* heartily loathes talking
about them. His diction is awful. II is
a pity he did not put in a week with a good
elocutionist before starling out as a lec-
turer. But in any case lie could never he
wholly satisfactory in this capacity. AA hat
is needed is a mixture of physically in-
trepid explorer and socially intrepid beauty-
actor, and the two types simply don't blend.
At one stage the embarrassed hero got mixed
up with Ihi' electric-thrown picture of the
Antarctic continent, and there was a weird
representation of a long, thin young man
with printed type all over his boiled shirt
front and sporting hideous tattoo marks oil
liis cadaverous student face.
Captain Davis, of the Aurora, was in the
audience, and watched himself in difficulties
among the ice. Three-quarters of the house
were silver-heads —both men and women —
to whom tin* South Pole regions had been a
fairy tale in their youth.
Alawson was convincing when lie talked
about his dead comrades. Alert/, and Nitmis,
because lie felt the subject enough to forget
himself. He also tried to express the in-
expressible feelings of dying of starvation
and thirst —dissecting and contrasting the
two separate sensations. If his sense of
description had been blessed with ordinarily
good diction or oratory the effect, would
have been tremendous. lie talked in high
praise of his dogs, and described feelingly
the way they tried to put one old dog,
Ginger, on his groggy legs before the end.
He struck one as a confirmed dog-lover.
“The dogs died one a day,” he said, and he
said it almost with tears in his voice.
Darksome mystery surrounds the where-
abouts of 11 pike Parker. Even L whose
trade it is to resolve the more or less in-
soluble, am baffled. The small pianist was
bound, when last heard of, for Berlin and
Schnabel —a famous Teuton* musician who
was to give her lessons at 505.. a time, or
as much more as she would spring. People
literally fight to be taught by Schnabel,
despite his horrible name, and bis passion,
amounting to a monomania, for money. TTe
won’t take everybody, though. His pupils
have to show Promise first. He is, terribly
haughty and exclusive. And now. just ns
poor little Reike’s letters, glorying in the
capture of the dreadful Schnabel, have come
along, we learn that she is lost. The
chances are that Schnabel himself has gone
to the front, and that his pupil is fleeing
back via Norway and Iceland. That. I
believe, is now the least troubled route for
those who want to quit Berlin.
The Sydney members of the Opera
League visited Alclbourne last week. Fritz
Hart and the Consewntorium of Alusie
stood them tea on AYednesday afternoon,
and after some music and a little genteel
cursing at the war. in its capacity of opera-
burster and amusement-slaver in general,
the party broke up.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
Wattle Day is here. Half the feminine population
of Adelaide is selling the herb at exorbitant prices
in aid of deserving institutions, and sheepish men,
with masses of yellow in their coats, are observable
everywhere. The president of the League is editor
\V. .T. Sowden, of the It roister, and lie has hustled
the movement to the front with great skill and vigor.
Th, ‘ Al,i «nee Fraucai.se is working iigerishly, just
now, for the Red Cross Society. Jt doe» its Red
Crossing "t the May dub ho.- the rest,
nothing ■* happening anywhere Inn sowing
meetings and patriotic concerts. Mrs. hug-cl-
Ix'i-g had one ol the latter on I uosda.v
( . V( . |iin ;|t lhl . victoH;l „ a)L Al] ti)e ;inii
;)|)<)ut ;)() . C(im of th<; towll lwv „
ar| . anjfe( , Re( , r , oss oonillljt , w .s, and ihe Song of the
I'vjama and the Anthem of Hie Sock, not to mention
- Ra]la(l i)f tho , Jltltte i avjt am heard „„
m si()p ..
" , 0)!l ,.,, ojj( „ ns , xvlK( bought the W. B. Wilkin-
Mms - 1)0(ise jn North A(l ,.laide; have settled themselves
in their new quarters. Is\ the wav, the Tom Popes,
w)|o sok] their ]lou , e , um1(!1 . th( . ( i e i usion ,hat the.
i> o ing- to England, must lie feeling- rather sick,
K xs an annoving thing to he homeless in a familiar
I;|n(b
The annual meeting- of the D.'i .x.S. was held in the
victoria JI all ou Thursday night, with the Governor
j n die chair, and Lady Galway, who is patroness of
d)(; so( .jpty, in the audience. The report showed
what, such reports usually show-—that the Society
j s using all its assets to the best advantage, and that
q wm absorb a lot more financial support without
bursting.
Miss Kdwell.. yvln» • for some time in
AtU-laitle, Tulflliing commissions for miniatures, i-eturns
to Sydney with her mother next week,
Mrs. Mayoress Simpson, whose father, Captain
Hubl-tc, was killed ill the Boor War, left this week
for Wostralia, to say good-h.ve to her brother, who
is leaving with the W.A. contingent,
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


mmmmrn
m
%
ATS ON S
mm
}
'
• A -
■ ;
>ith
■*
?
:i
& et*f
■
■■* ■.■■•■•
I.
t
,-JM
: m
- a®
las3l&far, a.
v- - - .
|j Ip ’ ■#
Very
Fine
I
MKBMSSBk
'^:0~
1,. ’VS D- ■ c T o^l
* Cl<s^l i ' v
S Standee t,^ n
■ HOpxjce or scotiAND
If'!
Hi.
HR & ■* *' v 'V - '* * ‘ ”"■
... S v J • '*
■
• vi• .-■ . ■ , * , *•
.;•• ■■ '•«v v ii
feaTf'i
,: 4 " 3
r
m -
•a**
9Bg
:
?’ Yv- .
•* •■**£*«
■
> ? p
1 i
:. r.-/ -
-
-»;VSk.
m
... :* -•
•-' ‘'Mr
On Which The
sunNeversets


WHEN "OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
“CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
jf f r etful, liverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
“fruit laxative” at once.
The vao'ue general discomfort of being
« oi ; t of sorts,” when the stomach turns
°“' Mt food, the eye is doll and the tongue
coated and heavy, ean he banished in a few
, , v f i oS e of “California Syrup of
1 There is no need to put up with these
Fi P‘ T 5fL Urrow, waiting for bedtime
things until t «^ a iif orn ia Syrup of Figs”
Zrt. 'This pheasant-tasting, refreshing fruit
laxative cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps
away all accumulations of undigested food,
and stimulates the liver to assist in relieving
the bowels. By evening the tongue will be
clear again and the overflow of bile swept
away: you will be yourself again, with a
good appetite and digestion. This is the
medicine which does such wonders for chil-
dren of all ages ; but it is every bit as good
for grown-up people, and there are full direc-
tions for every age with the bottle. Take
care to buy the genuine, as there are imita-
tions on the market. Ask for “California
Syrup of Figs,” and look for the name and
trade mark of the “California Fig Syrup Co.”
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup of
Figs,” 1/lj, and 1/9 per bottle.
“^Esculapius”: In ancient Greece they used to
erect temples over natural springs and give to each
a titular (Hety. We moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water —only our
methods differ somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—ft has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
“Figaro”: Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N.Q.,
blit close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa.
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of “Ilelidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HEUDON.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ftea Bird”: The (lilgandra (N.ft.W.)
man (B. 13/8/’l4) who has scored 38 breaks of
one limb is abnormal. I cannot approach him ; but
I enter myself for the ordinary fracture stakes (sea-
farers only). My injuries up-to-date are as follows:
Fractured jaw (compound), fractured thigh (com-
pound), fractured ribs (2), fractured toes (2), frac-
tured hand (1), fractured fingers (2). I am
still on deck and am master of a ship, although
seafaring life has been responsible for my injuries.
I have also been fractured financially several times.
MERELY MARY ANN.
THE MISSUS: “ Gracious , Mary! Aren't you going to take your hat off before you start? ”
MARY ANN (just engaged): “Lor' no! ’Ow do I know you'll suit?"
Pretty picture of a Cow country: —
The most . ultra-conservative district in N. S.
Wales is centred in Shoalhaven, a so-called “Gar-
den” given up to the worship of Cow. In fact, it is
proud of the fact that Shoalhaven pioneered this
form of sacrifice. Little progress has been made in
improving the business and bringing it in line with
Denmarkian principles since its inception. A few
years ago the Government had, in accord with the
terms of the David Berry bequest, put aside a cer-
tain amount of money to establish a Dairy Science
School at or near Berry. Much to the astonish-
ment of a few advanced and thirsting-for-knowledge
dairymen, this scheme was actually blown out at a
luncheon given by the Shoalhaven Agricultural
Society.
The local dairyman and bis family (the more the
better) are, before everything, “tit-pullers.” They
are almost all ignorant of Scientific dairying. Any
of them who are at all advanced easily win out front
their fellow dairymen. A great number of their resi-
dences are just humpies. They howl at the visit
of an inspector, and curse when they have to cut
down their diseased fruit trees. A year or two
ago a motion was brought tip before the Shoalhaven
Agricultural Society that herd-testing should be given
a trial. Its benefits were lucidly explained by the
Government expert. The scheme was ignominionsly
relegated to oblivion. The results would have been
too startling.
They are terrified of Wages Boards, and would
put all “delegates” in boiling oil. Long before
they leave school, and ever after they have left, it is
a case of all hands and the cook to the pump.
For their conservatism they have been well re-
warded by successive Governments. Their roads
are shocking. They can' hardly blame the motor-
car, as milk carts taking cream to the factory
twice a week, and bullock-waggons hauling timber,
until recently had the roads to themselves. After a
storm 1 have seen a tree of no extraordinary girth
lie across and almost block a road. Although there
were houses within a short distance the obstruction
remained for months —until the writer cut it away.
The locals preferred to go round and risk being cap-
sized into a fairly-deep drain.
For a wonder they have a co-operative dairy com-
pany, to which the majority of suppliers send their
cream, getting paid on the basis of a standard test.
A man not long ago came along and offered a slightly
higher price: and the co-operators didn’t, know
enough to stick to their own concern. Tbov once
had a co-operative bacon factory. But distbvaltv
soon killed that, and it was left to Private Enter-
prise to sweep up the wreck and make a success of
it.
A curious people—kindly, well-meaning, but con-
servativelv stubborn, whose education in rnanv cases
Ceases when they leave school. After that all their
ideas become mixed up and muddled with Cow. A few
of them know what a milking machine is; most of
them look on it as a new-fangled notion for encour-
agin’ loafin’. Dad is far too d”ll to s“e that he is
loafin’ on his own mites of children. “ ’S. good for
’em,” he says, referring to grbnv work. “See me—
never done me no harm, did it?”
“Coot”: A rather belated memorial was
erected in Avatelia Bay, Kamskatka, last month to
the memory of Captain Charles Clerke, H.N., who
died there in August, 1779. When Captain Cook was
killed in the Pacific Clerke succeeded him in com-
mand of the expedition, and set off to find the North-
West Passage. Ice drove him back to Kamskatka,
where he died of consumption. This voyage was
Gierke’s fourth trip round the world. lie accom-
panied Cook on his three voyages, and prior to that
was a middy with Commodore Byron when that
officer circumnavigated the globe in the Dolphin, in
1704-6.
SOMETHING SHORT.
JAMES (who has come in with a show of shouting all round): “Now, landlord!
What's yours?”
LANDLORD ( knowing James): “Cash.”
“L.L.8.": Met the true sport the other
night in a pub. It was just after Great Britain had
declared war. The newsboys outside were frantically
shrieking the news, and in (lie crowded bar the con-
versation reeked with blood, fire and patriotism, plus
an occasional rendering of “Gor’ Save.' But the
Sport went on anxiously searching the columns of
an “extraordinary” which blazoned forth in big
type the news from Europe, lie turned the sheet
o\er and over and ran his eye up and down the
columns, and then he threw it on the floor in dis-
gust. “Gor’ blime!” he said, “I paid Id. for that
rag and it ain’t got the weights in for Satur-
day, after all.”
“Ihulmtlo" : Some heroic naval newspaper
reference to “Britain's watchdogs” in my evening
sheet moves me to remark that, if Britain’s magnifi-
cent sea-hounds were as futile as the degraded animal
next door, the seas wouldn’t be as safe as they un-
doubtedly are at present. The next-door brute is a
mass of nervous suspicion on four cowardly legs.
It howls for help and a Royal Commission with a
candle every time a late train passenger’s heels are
heard clicking in the distance; and it shrieks
hysterically for reinforcements every time I go out
to the woodshed for a scuttle of coal. .V stone
dashed against the fence is sufficient to send the
chronic false-alarmist yelping to cover, and I believe
it would fall down’: dead or go bald with horror if I
climbed over the fence with a stick in my mouth.
Any householder who prefers to keep and maintain
a permanent mad midnight disturbance on the off
chance that, one night before it dies in. its flea-
haunted burrow, it may discover and disturb a clean,
silent, peace-loving burglar, is a striped lunatic,
and the blessing of common sense isn’t in him. As
for the careless writer who compares a well-equipped
and manned fighting ship to the stupid backyard
nuisance, he should be tied up somewhere and fed
with bones.
* * * *
“Incliiquin”: If the members of the S.
Australia Society for the Prevention of Barbarity
to Animals wishes to have a busy time they cannot
do better than spend a week in the vicinity of the
Yorkc Peninsula Aborigines’ Mission Station. The
nigger is a coward, and like all cowards, a terror to
helpless thing’s he comes in contact with. No black-
fellows should be allowed to own or even propel a
horse. They drive them to a standstill, and then
Hog them unmercifully because they can go no far-
ther. This is Sunday morning, and T am six miles
from the station. Last night a drunken nigger,
after capsizing his cart, went to sleep on the road-
side. Someone unharnessed the nag, and gave it a
sheaf of hay. This morning I saw the nigger thrash-
ing the life out of the superior animal, the Lord
only knows why. Reckon if any members of the
afore-mentioned society did spend a week here they
would have more cases than they would find in the
city during seven years.
The passing over of Taylor White at
Hawkes Bay (M.L.) recently recalls one of the
biggest legal scraps, ever known in Maorilantl. lie
ami bis brother arrived there in 18->3, and took up
the Mount Nicholis Bun, on the shores of Lake
M’akatipu. This part of M.L. was not surveyed, so
the Provincial Government handed the brothers a
deed to the property describing it vaguely as being
“bounded on one side by Lake Wakatipu and on the
other by snowy mountains.” After a time two
brothers named McKellar came along and took pos-
session of a big lump of the country claimed by the
Whites. The latter, of course, always pointed out
the boundaries to their land in the summer time,
and the former invariably insisted in looking for
the boundaries in the middle of winter. In the
summer “the snowy mountains” were about 100
miles away, but in the depth of winter they were
quite close to the lake. At last the Whites fell upon
the McKellars with a writ for trespass, unlawful
possession, damages and about 67 other things. The
wrangle lasted for months, and Costs behaved in an
awful manner. In the end the Whites won, and the
McKellars had to pack up and vanish, after handing
over big damages and endeavoring to satisfy Costs.
The movable boundary of “snowy mountains,” how-
ever, was wiped out, and the limits of the run
definitely fixed by survey. Taylor White, who was
a great amateur naturalist, was 77 when Death got
him.
* # * *
to Ther bulliteen —dee sur, i just want
too let you no about what i considre was a bit of
a frord played at ther shows up heer larst veer by
sum boxin blokes, who had a tent an useter giv
exsibitions an charge a bob a time an ther feller
who did all ther talkin the sprooker they called him
useter yell out that one of ther pugs tornado jim he
called him wood fight anyone on ther ground four
a thousan quid an liseter wave a big bag full of ten
pound notes to show that he had ther money to put
up of course r no one wood take him on an then a
big hard faced bloke useter cum out of ther crowd
an touch tornado jim on ther arm gentle like and
arst him when he was going ter pay ther £2O quid
he owed him an then they wood hav an argiment an
ther big bloke would swipe tornado jim on ther jaw
an they wood hav a fair go in right in front ov ther
terit an nock ther bench down, the sprooker bloke
would stop them an fix up a fight that afternoon for
£lOO hundred quid an charge five bob ter see it
an blime you orter see the way ther mob wood turn
up but as soon as the fight would start ther tent useter
fall down cos the mob wood get that wild and bump
agon ther pole an then it wood lie. all over, well i
jus want ter let yer know i was at 7 shows larst
veer lookin after ther bosses yung jersee bull an i
went in ter see the fight 4 times an every time ther
same thing happened and then by crummies i took a
tumble of course it might have been fair dinkuin
but i think it was a frord dont you i do anyway an
the blighters fThe rest was put on the ice.—-
Ed. B.]
(Continued on page 2).)
THE LAST NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The last pub banged its heartless door ;
The last pub’s lights greyed out;
And 1 was in a dead world with
v A crayfish and some stout;
And not another single soul
AY as anywhere about.
I knew from how the pavement heaved,
And how the bright stars hurled
Themselves about the sky above,
The judgment of the world
Had just arrived. My fainting soul
Within my bosom curled.
It was not just a selfish fear
That turned my heart to stone;
But men, I knew, had gone for good
And I was left alone;
I was the last man left on earth —
’Twas that that made me groan.
The lobster was the on]}- friend
That I had left. I bit
A leg; then, as 1 drank some stout,
I made it by me sit,
And as it could not drink the stuff
I poured some over it. \br-
“Ah, friend!” I sighed, “the priceless gems
That yon gay windows deck
Are mine; but I would give them all
Could they redeem this wreck!’’
I took another swig of stout,
. And wept upon its neck !
“The riches of the world are mine;
Fine raiment I may wear;
And all the foods the world may hold
Are mine; and yet, I swear,
They are no earthly use to me
For life they can’t repair!”
At last came sleep—that gentle sleep
That worn-out spirits calms.....
The milkman in the morning came
( With sundry loud alarms
And found the lobster and myself
Locked in each other’s arms.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


'--Mm
m
NR»-»
■
swxy:
wr:S>:':-:<*t*;v: : x
towFHWI
i&wSSSw
H.M.A.S. AUSTRALIA.
A l.r '
We MaKe Our Pianos
in Australia.
Our Business Employs over £.325,000 of
Australian Capital, and Pays Over £60,000
per annum in Wag'es to Australians.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
i i ■
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street. Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street. Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth. W.A.
273 Little Collins Street. Melbourne, Vic.


PHILLIPS ORMONDE & CO., Consult-
ing Engineers, Patent and Trade Mark
Attorneys, 17 Queen Street (Lombard
Buildings), Melbourne. Established 18S8.
810-SHOWMEN!
X HERE’S onlv one BEST Biograph. We can prove
I it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
THE FORM OF ILL-HEALTH THAT MOST
PREVAILS IN AUSTRALIA.
We are told that the consumption of medi-
cine is greater in Australia than in any other
country, and this must be attributed to an
unsatisfactory condition of health affecting a
large proportion of our people. What then
is the prevalent form of ill-health ? All indi-
cations point one way —to the fact that the
average person suffers most frequently from
some disorder of the digestive functions, which
might be easily corrected by the right kind of
treatment. Modern medical authorities teach
us that most of our common ailments have
their origin in the d gestive area. In a word,
we poison ourselves (autointoxication) by
absorption from the intestinal tract. To over-
come this condition, the best remedy is
petroleum, because unlike other remedies, it
reaches the intestines unchanged, where it
exercises its lubricating, anti-fermentative,
healing effects to the fullest extent. The
original and standard preparation of petroleum
for internal use is Angier's Emulsion, which
has been largely employed by the medical
profession ever since 1892. Apart from its
soothing, healing properties, Angier’s Emulsion
(because of the hypophosphites which it con-
tains) exerts a marked tonic, invigorating
influence which makes it of value in a wide
variety of disorders. Doctors prescribe it
largely, not alone for lung troubles and wasting
diseases, but even more for digestive and bowel
disorders. Very good results have followed
its use in the treatment of gastric catarrh,
gastric ulcer, mucous colitis, nervous dys-
pepsia, chronic constipation, and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders that
have resisted other treatment. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
P»e sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton."
BRAND
V
Cl
m
gtuhr.
STUHR’S
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO.. Hamburg*
Indents through European Exporters only
The recent noticeable inflow of Hindus
into Maoriland (mostly from Fiji), and the trouble
Canada had with its bullying shipload of Bhutan
Ganges has led Premier Massey to put a few more
battens in his Immigration Restriction Act. As
the law stands it provides an education test in the
form of words, in any European language, to be
written, but it has been found that too many of our
discolored brothers have been able to copy the form
put before them without knowing what they were
writing. The amending Bill requires a reading test,
and is framed in such a way as to absolutely prevent
the heathen working a bluff.
* * * *
“Ivaroonda” : Has any finality been reached
regarding the pace an emu is capable of putting up ?
If not, how about accepting this as a basis for argu-
ment ? The writer, on a motor-bike, recently bar
a flying-mile go with an emu. The course chosen
was the track about a dozen miles the Adelaide side
of Morgan (S.A.). I was buzzing along peacefully
when emu and wife appeared a few chains ahead
and gave the challenge by getting off the mark with-
out even waiting to inquire if any odds were offering.
As the track is fenced on both sides there was no
difficulty in keening the contestants on the course,
or, rather, one of them. The other left through a
vacancy in the fence a few chains from the barrier.
The race then became a clear-cut go between legs
and wheels, and continued for the best part of a
mile, during which the emu’s pace never dropped
below 26 miles per hour. At times it was higher.
I can vouch for the accuracy of the speed, which
was read from a reliable speedometer. An
tunity of observing the staying powers
was lost, for, as soon as he became hard pressed
and saw there was a chance of his being beaten at
the post, he took the fence and closed the incident
by making for the bush at a pace that was, to say
the least of it, consistent with his performance on
the course.
* * * *
“John P.” : When you are climbing Rua-
pehu (M.L.), and get as far up the extinct volcano
as a clump of scrub known as the Round Bush, the
guide has a habit of pointing out many skeletons of
sheep hung up by the neck from four to six feet
above the ground in the branches of the thick
manuka scrub. When you ask how they got there
you are usually told that the sheep become so hungry
in the winter that they climb the manuka to eat
off the tender shoots, and in doing so get hung.
That’s for tourists. The truth is that the ground
is under three or four feet of snow in the winter, and
the scrub becomes weighed down. The sheep, in
struggling through the snow in search of shelter, get
entangled in the bent branches and die there.
When the snow melts in the spring the scrub flies
back to its original position, carrying the carcases
with it.
LUCKY GIRL.
BILL: “ Strikes me , Liz, that you're one of
the lucky ones wot ’ave orl th' fun.
Hevery time I meet yer you've got a fresh
pair of black eyes!"
A bit of ancient N. S. Wales history,
from a venerable writing by W. R. Govett in 1836:
A gallows and gibbet were erected in the year
1832. Two men (prisoners of the Crown) were
condemned for the murder of their overseer, and
hanged and afterwards suspended in chains upon a
pole 30ft. in height. When Governor Bourke first
visited that part of the counHy, in 18.33, he ordered
them to be cut down. The remains were interred
at the foot of the gibbet, and a few years ago, some
building operations disclosed the spot. The legirons
were found with the bones.
A MAD WORLD , MY MASIERS,
FIRST NEWCHUM (to friend, who has inquired the way): “Hot did tin say?”
SECOND DITTO: “Seems like t' auld Juel s Jair daft. Relied us keep on goin' till we see a
sheep break.”
“Moana'.'Going Joshing at Rarotonga is
great sport. The frrst requirement is. about 700
natives, men, women and children, and the second is
one of the long, narrow and shallow lagoons round
the coast lying between a beach and an outer reef
of coral. These stretches of quiet water are usually
about three feet deep (seldom more than four), and
they swarm with all kinds of good fish. Having
selected your lagoon, you get your most energetic
followers to close all the natural openings in the
reef, either by laying nets across them or building up
rough barriers of coral. When this has been done,
the women and children wade into one end of the
lagoon carrying little, plaited, fibre bags, containing
utu-nut. When this substance comes into contact with
water a peculiar narcotic is let loose that quickly
spreads, and the fish are doped. Half an hour is
usually allowed for the “poison” to get in its work,
and by the end of that time most of the fish are
swimming about in a foolish, aimless way. Then
you climb into the lagoon at one end, accompanied by
your army of natives, who, armed with dangerous-
looking, many-pronged spears, form, a solid line
stretching from side to side, and drive the fish before
them up the lagoon. As soon as the accumulating
fish become visible at the other end, the natives give
vent to their excitement with a peculiar cry sounding
something like “Eh-hu-hu-u-u!” In a few minutes
barbed spears will be flying in all directions.
The throwers are not wonderfully dexterous, but the
intoxicated fish are so sluggish that they are easily-
speared. Many fish hide in the so a lot of
your brown army confines its attention to the reef.
These natives wear glass goggles and sink under the
water, remaining submerged from one to two minutes.
They feel about in likely hiding-places, and secure
the prey with a short, sharp, thrusting spear. These
methodical fishermen make the biggest catches, but
you will enjoy much better sport- out in the open
with the merry brown men, to say nothing of merry
brown maidens. About two hours of it will clear out
a fairly big lagoon, and there will be numerous
varieties of fish, the most prevalent being a kind of
mullet. That will be merely the commencement of
your picnic, for, as the native can never wait till he
gets home to eat what he’s caught, the feasting starts
straight away. The freshly-caught fish are cooked on
hot stones that have been prepared by the old people,
and are then eaten in the native manner off broad,
green leaves.
* * * *
“Nym” : How a good word was put in for
an employee of an Outback shire council: —
To the chairman and members of Shire of -— —
Council- —1 beg to inform you I am a ratepayer
in the shire 50 years. I do think Mr. Jones is the
best man that came to the shire. I saw two or three
of his bridges and they are a credit to him. What
matter if he takes a little of the mountain dew? He
is none worse for that. There was a great lawyer
. in Ireland. He was not worth a button when he’d
be sober. When he’d have drink taken he would win
every case. He was bribed not to drink any strong
stuff the day of the trial. He promised he would
not. The day of the trial he got a loaf of bread.
He soaked a. pint of whisky into it and ate every
bit of it. When the trial was half-way the lawyer
that bribed him could see that he was going to lose
the case. He sang out to him, “You drank.” “No,
I ate it.” He won the case for his client. I hope
you will give Mr. Jones another chance. He is a
very able man. I hardly ever spoke to the man.
His work is good. He makes the contractor do his
work well. The best of men was fond of a drop. I
wished to God there was no worse crime than that
in the world.
* * * *
“Warburton” : News of the fresh expedi-
tion to seek the elusive sunken treasure of the
General Grant in Maoriland waters recalls the
Daphne expedition in the ’6o’s, which had a tragic
and rather mysterious ending. The Daphne was a
craft of about 100 tons, schooner-rigged, and had
once belonged to the Government (of S.A., I think),
but, since then, in the hands of Private Enterprise,
had made an unsavory reputation as a “black-
birder.” From Melbourne it sailed to that part of
M.L.’s rocky scenery that had wrecked the General
Grant, and the big ship Y-boat went off to reconnoitre,
taking everybody except the cook and a boy. That
was the last seen of them alive —or dead either, for
that matter. After waiting about for a considerable
time the cook, who appears to have been something
of a navigator, brought the Daphne back to Australia
with the assistance of the cabin-boy.
INJUDICIOUS.
THE CORPORAL: “Young man! Have you
found Grace?”
MICKO : “'Ere, don't be a nark! Can't yer
see I've got me tart with me!”
SHAKE FOR SHAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why is it when I ask a match
From swagsman or from swell,
Before he hands the box to me
He shakes it up like h —l?
And then, when 1 have lit my pipe,
I somehow can’t refrain
From taking that maltreated box
And shaking it again
Is it because the donor seeks
By sense of sound to see,
How many strikes are in the box
Ere passing it to me?
And I—to vouch my honesty,
And show I can refrain
From such temptation—shake the box
Ere passing it again.
I do not know, I cannot say,
Yet still the fact decayed
Remains, that men thus jerked the box
Since matches first were made.
Each theory you may advance
Is just as good as t'other.
The best of all may be perchance—
One shake deserves another.
N.s.w.
HORACE HALLORAN.
McGuire Takes Vengeance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“TPWAS Delaney’s own doin’,” said
Flynn meditatively, “’n’ he’ll find
none other t’ blame wherever he is,
him bein’ dead this ten year.
“Danyil Delaney was a burn Done June,
so he was, ’n’ maybe ’twas wrong iv
McGuire t’ liowld him responsible, but whin
a man have a tall, fine girrl for wife, ’n’ a
dishdainful divil iv a young buck like Dan-
yil Delaney comes trowin’ poses ’n’ atti-
tudes in the back yarrd, ’n’ sthringin’
po’try ’n’ the like perniciousness, ’tis not
onreasonable nor conthrary t’ human nature
in the for-rmer if he takes the black sus-
picion t’ hear-rt, ’n’ nourishes the inclination
t’ t-hry the idge iv his axe on the slikull iv
the intherloper, is ut now?
“Fer meself, I’m not blamin’ ayther, it
bein’ shmall sinse t’ blame air a man fer
follyin’ where liis timp’ramint irresistibly
dthrags him. Danyil’s timp’ramint led him
t’ trow eyes ’n’ soft talk t’ Mrs. McGuire.
Mrs. McGuire’s timp’ramint led her t’ appre-
ciate ’n’ incourage the same, ’n’ McGuire’s
timp’ramint led him t’ lake what a soft
shmall man iv the like iv yersilf might be
timpted t’ call dtlirastic measures.
“Danyil Delaney was a tall, shlim bye
wid the jaunty set to his head, ’n’ the jocond
shparkle to his aye, ’n’ the gay, liltin’ way
wid him, seemin’ t’ trid on bubbles, ’n’ t.'
alwuz have a flower chewin’ be the cor-rner
iv his ’mouth. For whoi did the good Ford
make anny such, but t’ have thim singin’ to
a gir-rl’s windy half the night, ’n’ makin’
fine pictures iv thimsilves in the lan’scape
the day through to athract the glance iv
anny buxom married ma’am happens t’ be
roamin’ ?
“Delaney cud no more help himsilf from
eortin’ than the male dove birrd cud help
his lmppin’, ’n’ duckin’, ’n’ his canoodlin’
ways afore the shmall hen, ’n’ Mrs. McGuire
was well pleased, though maybe intendin’
no greater har-rm than a woman will play-
in’ wid a thrifle iv fire t’ spice the lone-
someness ’n’ de-cor-rum iv a thryin’ summer.
“Iv’ry wan at Flynn’s Crick tuck a note
iv ut. Yill mind how ’tis in thim shmall
cintirs where ivryone’s bizness is annyone’s,
’n’ there’s no divarsion at all apar-rt frim
the thriflin’ injoodiciousness iv the other
fellow’s woife.
“ "Tis quare how McGuire don’t notice
nothin’,’ sez Halligan.
“ ‘Blind ez a bat he is,’ sez Hogan, "n’
a brickbat et that,’ sez he.
“ ‘Wid his silly numbshkull banded, ’n’ his
fool eyes t’ the ground,’ sez Mrs. Hogan.
“We all would be sayin’ the like, for troot
t’ tell, ’twas apparent ’n’ obvyis McGuire
was more intint on the growin’ iv the grass,
’n’ more absint-minded ’n’ preoccupied with
his thoughts than was raysonable in a man
wed wid a fine, han’some young girrl would
have Delaney prancin’ in the front gar-rden
five times the week.
“Thin come the Hibernyin picnic t’ Dinn.v’s
Reach, ’n’ a great, fine gath’rin’ ut was. ’n'
a credit t’ ould Ireland, wid the singjn’ ’n’
the dancin’, ’n’ the mountains iv aytin’ V
pails iv dthrinkin’ there was. ’Twas late in
the afternoon whin Danyil Delaney, twistin’
a fine jig to the ind of Dinny Cahill’s poor
bit iv a jetty, where he’d be well seen ’n’ cut
a noble fiaure befure the ladies, slitepped
backwar-rd ’n’ slilipt in the river.
“’Twas a minute gone afore he kim up,
wid his eyes wild ez thim uv a crazy cow,
’n’ shpoutin’ wather like a whale.
“‘Oh! save him, will none o’ yeh?’ cries
Mr*. McGuire looks at her dead
cowld. “Save him!” cries Mrs. McGuire, ’n’
wid that McGuire troo off his hat ’n’ his
coat, ’n’ tossed away his boots, ’n’ takin’ a
fine run, slfpea red himsilf in the river the
like iv a divin’ duck.
“McGuire was the gr-reat, gifted
shwimmer. ’n’ a long time he was down.
Whin at iahst he kim up. ‘I can’t find the
poor bye,’ sez he, ’n’ he tur-rned, ’n’ dived
agin. McGuire dived manny good, deep
dives, till ’twas considered well t’ drag him
out be mane foorce, ’n’ he lay on the bank
ixhaust tin minutes ’r more. Then like a
brave man he was. he wint in wunst more,
’n’ this time he got Danyil Delaney, Sorra
a bit good ut was, Danyil bein’ that dead no
power iv rollin’ ’n’ rubbin’ cud save him.
“ ‘He was hooked be a shnag.’ sez
McGuire. "Twas gr-reat work t’ lib’rate
him, rest his soul.’
“McGuire was the terribly dishthressed
man vid think ’twas the frind iv his hear-rt
was dead on him ; but I’m knowin’, for him-
silf confist ut to me wan year afther, he
cot Danyil Delaney undther the wather the
firslit dive, ’n’ he hooked him to the. shnag
delibrit ’n’ wid malice aforethought, intend-
in’ him t’ dtlirown.”
“The infernal villain !” I gasped. w hat
did they do to him?” . , ,
Flynn sniffed superciliously. Mamn
me frind McGuire?” be said. “They give
him the Ryle Humane Society’s medal.”
EDDYSON.


JUST FOR THE ASKING
FREE TROUSER” COUPON.
k
> ''
Marne
V ''
Address.
WRITE#'*
NOW*
■v
■ I
■k :
ST'S
. p
:zJ
mm
2%
13
D
O
/c <*
05>
pi
L/i.
■zS>
n
»
m
Highest Grade
Tailored Suits
TO
ORDER
with Extra Trousers
? r £ T AI^OR ING SPECIALISTS who know our business and pass the benefit on to you. Thousands of designs
and fabrics Enshsh, Scotch, Irish and Australian Tweeds and Serges. The designs are perfect productions- the
Tummings we use are all that could be desired. proaucuona, me
ORDER YOUR SUIT AT ONCE. We want you to be LONDON TAILORED—the hall-mark of Tailoring excellence.
We have travelled the world and spent endless money to secure the finest artists. Cutters of the highest ability with
most extensive experience are at your command. S y w in
and PottVree immenSe range ° f SUITINGS - Elaborate-colored Style Book, Tape Measure, Chart, Etc., GRATIS,
MONEY REFUNDED
IF DISSATISFIED.
Suits to Order
42|-
551-
75|-
901-
With
Extra
Trousers 4
Free.
z
8
s
a
opp.
G.P.0.,
Melbourne
WE GUARANTEE
Absolute SATISFACTION.
Suits to Order
501-
63|-
70/-
841-
With
Extra
Trousers
Free.


t
BR
Free
Play
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
Sold Everywhere
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast be Stamped
on Suckle*
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens !
PH OS FEW
UtuM'M. Ortrfjt*
*»4 *
!£Tv*
.CU.4-JH » < J
, UNO* R UVU U
r
P’illt fIKIT BY ASHTOB4W
©
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff packape,
labelled ASIITON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
The Magic Art of Beauty Culture.
SOME HOME RECIPES.
By RITA MOYA.
A oomrdexion that appears clear, fresh and natural is as necessary to the smart woman
as a modish gown. More attention should be given to keeping the skin “til” than to the
details of dress. The face, constantly exposed to wind, dust, fatigue and strain, requires
regular and watchful care. One great cause of complexion troubles is the frequent use or
greasv, inactive preparations which clog the pores and prevent the natural throwing oil
of waste matter. My repeated advice is to avoid made-up cosmetics, and to use only pure
ingredients. The various aids to beauty which 1 recommend are simple, and if not aliea( y
at hand, can he procured from any reliable chemist. If he lias not what you require lie
can easily obtain it for you from ins wholesaler. Only let me advise you to insist on har-
ing tlie original ingredients, and not to accept some made-up preparation liisteui.
About Shampoos.—To quote an eminent
London beauty specialist: “The slimy egg
cannot dissolve the scalp impurities, but only
adds to the trouble by completely choking the
pores with animal matter.” The substance
sticks and decomposes, thereby causing the
hair to assume a dead, “dull color.” 1 heart-
ily endorse every word. Avoid eggs (and
soap, too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful ot
stallax in a cup of hot water.. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair, will
clear and prevent dandruff, and leave that
fine, fluffy effect so much sought after. It
also removes excess oil or greasiness.
Complexion Secrets of an Actress.—ln a re-
cently issued volume bearing the above title
the author says: “Continual use of grease
paints, rouge and the like, has ruined my
roimdexion. M.v skin was colorless, wrinkled,
coarse and punctured with large pores. In
America Y • heard of the virtues of mercolised
wax; my first experience with this marvellous
substance convinced me it was more valuable
than all the cosmetics combined. Now, when-
ever my complexion begins to go wrong. I get
a small quantity of mercolised wax at tlie
chemist's, spread on a thin layer of it before
retiring, washing it off in the morning. The
wax, after a few such applications, seems
literally to absorb the worn-out cuticle, when
a brighter, healthier, younger looking skin
appears.
Face Fuzz.—Many women know how to re-
move superfluous hair temporarily, but to
banish it for ever is quite another matter. As
regards depilatories. 1 must say that there are
very few good ones. They nearly all irritate
the skin, and even then only give temporary
relief. Powdered plieminol acts in a wonder-
ful manner, and the recommended treatment
is designed not only to immediately remove
ihe ugly hairs, but to also permanently des-
troy the roots.
Scanty Eyebrows and Lashes. —What a
wealth of expression can be given to an other-
wise plain face by fine arching eyebrows and
long curling lashes! Much care should be
exercised, however, in choosing a pomade for
promoting: the growth of either, as it is prac-
tically impossible to keep the lids tightly closed
when treating the lashes. Mennaline has the
advantage of being perfectly harmless, and at
the same, time a healthy stimulant to the hail
follicles. Its use tends to darken the new
growth, which presumably is what most
women desire.
Is Powder Necessary?—l say emphatically
No! There is a simple lotion which can he
easily and cheaply made at home, and it is
at the same time both effective and beneficial
to the complexion. Cleminite is a splendid
substitute for face powder, which is at the
bottom of many complexion troubles. Get
about an ounce from the chemist’s and dis-
solve in four tablespoonsful of water. The
result is a fine clear liquid, which instantly
gives the face, neck or arms that peach-like
bloom of perfect health. There is nothing to
equal it for greasy skins, and the result lasts
all day long under the most trying conditions.
'L'ry it for the next dance.
Falling Hair. —How often one hears the
lament: “I have tried everything on the
market, and my hair comes out in handfuls."
Not so surprising either ylien you come to
think it over. Hair tonics to be effective must
be fresh, and there is no earthly reason why
every woman should not make her own lotion
at home. The finest vegetable tonic I know
of is made by mixing a packet of bpranium
with -J-pint of bay rum and adding sufficient
water to fill a half-pint bottle. This lotion
rubbed briskly into the scalp sets the hair
roots tingling with new' life, and will, if per-
severed with, give you back your “crowning
glory.”
For Pale Faces. —Some folks are naturally
pale, and I see no harm whatever in adding a
little color to the cheeks if so desired. Rouge,
however, is always obvious, and to people of
refinement somewhat vulgar. There is a sub-
stance, however, known as powdered colli-
andum, which gives a perfectly natural color,
and at the same time defies detection. Apply
a little, with the finger tips. You will be
pleased "with the result I feel sure. [4
Elections and War Intelligence and
Sundries.
The clamor to the effect that it is out-
rageous and indecent to hold an Australian
election at a time when the lid has blown
off the top of the pot in Europe grows weari-
some. Ex-Attorney-General Hughes lately
propounded the idea that time and fuss
might be • saved by making the election a
walk-over. “Both parties,” lie suggested,
should agree to let each party hold every
seat it formerly possessed, the other party
withdrawing its candidate. It would have
been a very beautiful scheme if there were
only “both parties,” and if the independent
candidate' didn’t exist. But unless Hughes
was prepared to slay the independent, and
the political adventurer, and the anti-
Defenee fanatic with a sledge-hammer as
soon as any one of them tried to nominate
himself, there was nothing in the device.
Then it was proposed that the British Par-
liament should be invited to pass an Act
for the revival of the dissolved Australian
Senate and House of Heps. Apart from
the fact that the British Parliament is pretty
busy rushing off troops, and floating loans,
and hunting for spies, and urging its fleet
to find the enemy at all costs, it would be
a degrading thing for Australia to go hang-
ing round like a lost dog with the statement
that, at the first really thrilling moment
in its history, it couldn’t manage its own
affairs. The war may last for years. It
isn’t a mere spasm or a passing hysteria.
The local machine of State has to go on,
and the mayor lias to be elected, and the
culvert has to be built, and the rabbit sup-
pressed, and the dead animal removed, and
the water-rate collected, and the crops sown
and reaped, and the drunk arrested, even if
we have a suspicion that the Heavens
will fall to-morrow. To-morrow will come,
and the Heavens will probably not fall.
Even if they do drop, we may as well be
found toiling at our jobs in a sane fashion
to the last, like the boy who stood on the
burning deck. No one believes that one
more German would be dead, or that one
more bayonet would be added to the Rus-
sian army, or that another brick would be
built on any Belgian fortress, if Australia
scrambled together a doubtfully legal Par-
liament, instead of having one which can
stand inspection. Australia would do good
work if it carefully elected a ,Parliament,
established an Elective Ministry, doubled
or trebled the tariff, made its note circula-
tion a compulsory business, Federalised the
railways, created a uniform railway gauge,
and -proceeded to build the Port Darwin
transcontinental line in red-hot haste. Also
it would do good work if it took over the
State debts and suppressed the crazy borrow
and boom and burst policy of Denham and
Holman and Scaddan. Then, if the war
is still going strong in 1917. and if the
centre of the combustion has by that time
shifted to the Pacific, this country will be
much better prepared to do its share, and
will be able to come in when it is most
wanted. It will achieve nothing for the
Empire by hanging up all its urgent pro-
blems on the pretence that it is in-
decent to do anything but loaf when the
Race and the Language are in danger. In
a time of real annoyance the man who
plants two extra cabbages is worth more
than the one who loans up against 10 public-
houses discussing the battle intelligence,
rJames Edmond. 21+ Oeors:e-street. Svdnev.l
Maori la mi's Old Scarecrow.
Maoriland lias been hearing from its
Attorney-General: (A. L. IIerdman) exactly
what sort of a cranky solution of the so-called
liquor problem (the real problem is the
drunkard problem) is its No-License scheme.
The occasion was the second reading of a
Bill in the House of Representatives to reduce
the effective vote for National Prohibition
(as distinct from district No-License) from
60 to 55 per cent. IIerdman said nothing
that was strikingly new. Practically every
point that can be made against a system
which closes the police-supervised hotels with
one hand, and with the other passes the
inhabitant a charter to fill his private wash-
house with beer-kegs and the attic with
whisky bottle.s; and starts the “sly-grog”
shop ; and nuts the “dropper’ under weigh :
and scatters temptation amongst women
and the under-aged, has been made. But
as Attorney-General of the country, weighing
his responsibility, Herdman’s denunciation
of No-License as it has operated in Maori-
land is a valuable contribution to a world-
wide wrangle. Said he :—
I am convinced that after the experience of close
upon 21 years of referring this question to the
public the cause of temperance has not prospered
in Maoriland. Tn 1893 the law was altered to give
the people in different districts an opportunity of
expressing- an opinion as to whether licenses should
or should not exist. Ever since that year—for 21
years—that law has remained on the Statute Book ;
and who in this House can declare that the condition
of thing's regarding the consumption and sale of
liquor has improved since then?. ...In 1893 the
total number of licenses granted was 2729 and in
1913, 1869. The total amount of liquor imported
into and manufactured in Maoriland per head of
mean population was, in 1893, 8.070 gallons, and, in
1913, 10.098 gallons, thus clearly proving that the
quantity- of liquor manufactured and imported has
increased despite the temperance legislation passed.
In regard to the convictions for drunkenness, they
were, in 1893, 5139; in 1913, 11,901 You have
carried No-License in certain districts, but drinking
goes on there just as much as ever, and of the
very worst kind —the sly, sneaking, secret drinking.
Liquor is brought into these districts in a surrepti-
tious way and men sneak into a back room for the
purpose of consuming the drink. And when they
get drink in these places they get it in large quanti-
ties and they do not leave it alone until it is all
consumed.
IIerdman is quite satisfied that legislation
which leads to these results on the one hand
and, on the other, to publicans running their
business on the basis of a precarious tenure,
should be wiped out, but, apparently, like
most Maoriland politicians, he has not the
courage of his convictions in this regard,
lie condemns Private Enterprise, but, no
doubt on the general principles of his party,
is onnosed to State control. The way to
overcome the difficulty, .or dodge the issue, he
opines, is to put the control of the licensing
of public-houses and the. liquor trade in the
hands of a Trust appointed by Parliament.
Challenged as to whether he was prepared lo
introduce a Bill to the Parliament to this
effect, he said he was not, as he was pledged
at the elections to the ' system of
local or Dominion option, which he so
elaborately condemns. Ills objection to
State control (meaning the State as
taking over the business) was based,
he declared, on the financial difficulties. Un-
fortunately, there was nobody handy to recall
to him the prophesied financial difficulties
that were going to make a failure of the
Public Trustee office, for instance. If the
State could practically take over the involved
and responsible business of trusteeship from
Private Enterprise, and manage it so judici-
ally and successfully as Maorilaud does, then
M.L. can find a means to show Private Enter-
prise how to brew beer and supply man and
similar beasts with liquor and other refresh-
ment. Incidentally, the Bill which induced
the above discussion, though introduced by
the Government, was taken as a non-party
measure. Only two of the Ministers voted
for the second reading. No casualties fol-
lowed this breach of Party tradition and eti-
quette. Indeed, the only noticeable change
was the wisdom of the whole proceedings.
In spite of the steady rise in wages, mostly
the result of Arbitration awards, N. S. Wales
manufacturers of late years continued to bag
for themselves a steadily-increasing propor-
tion of the value of their output. This
shows the percentages which went respect-
ively in salaries and wages and to the pro-
prietors- for profit and general purposes
(apart from wages, materials and fuel) :
190 S. 1911. 1912.
Workpeople . . 17.97 p.c. 18.49 p.c- 18.95 p.e.
Proprietors . . 16.34 „ 17.26 18.14 ~
In other words, wages in those four years
rose £l9B for every £lO,OOO worth of goods
produced; but the proprietors also had an
extra £lBO out of which to provide for
replacement of machinery, and to pay rates
and taxes, and to give themselves their own
little bit of profit. But so far as the
employers were concerned things took a turn
at the end of 1912 ; and last year, while the
employees got another £33 out of every
£lO,OOO worth of manufactures, the em-
ployers’ whack for profit and general pur-
poses slumped badly by £120; so that
actually, though they were doing a shade
better than in 1908, they were doing consider-
ably worse than in 1903, which was reckoned
a shockingly bad year in N. S. Wales. The
plain meaning of which is that wages have
recently got ahead of the tariff, and that,
if wages are to be maintained at their recent
level, there must be either a higher wall or a
whole crowd of out-of-work Australian fac-
tory hands and artisans. As a general thing
Australia won’t manufacture if it pays better
to import: and there are only two reasons
why it pays better to import—either wages
are too. high or the tariff is too low. To
ensure employment, which the figures show
is plainly threatened, the one must come
down or the other must go up. Which is it
to be? Australia can make its own choice.
[S. H. Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
♦
“0.K.” : Eveb since I began to take notice
the old, stereotyped remarks upon the
“insular prejudices of the typical Briton”
and “the ignorance of the Cockney” have
got upon my nerves. Why speak of “insu-
lar prejudices,” as though the inhabitants
of Britain were out of touch with the world
across the water? The little island contains
a larger proportion of travelled population
than any other country. The people who
never get away from it have, in the mass, a
larger number of relatives and friends living
abroad than any other European people, and
their friends write to them. The receipt of
foreign correspondence is larger per head of
population in Britain than in any European
country. They are less uninformed as to
domestic life and political conditions in
strange lands than any other people. And
the “ignorant Cockney” ! lie rubs shoulders
with more foreigners, and a wider assort-
ment of them, than the citizen of any of the
other countries now at war. The speech,
habits and ways of “foreigners” are more
often under the Cockney’s notice. If the
German in London to-day gets more toler-
ant consideration than the Britisher in
Berlin —and who says lie doesn’t? —where
does the “insular” prejudice and ignorance
come in? The fact is, the native Britisher
and the Irishman are the least home-bound
in their ideas of any English-speaking per-
sons. The American, the Australian and
the Canuck are narrow-minded in compari-
son. They are out of touch and sympathy
with the countries where the foreigners come
from. Yet all English-speaking communi-
ties are necessarily less narrowly provincial
in sentiment than those that have no tradi-
tions of foreign conquest and foreign adven-
ture in the family. For ingrained provin-
cialism and prejudice in the man and woman
who know absolutely nothing of foreign
modes of thought go to Berlin and Mos-
cow. Read the novelists of Germany and
Russia. The romances are written for a
nation that knows nothing of a world beyond
its frontiers. “Insular prejudice,” indeed.
Britain is a place surrounded by cosmopoli-
tan seas and channels of information. I
havp snorted.
War and military terms explained: —
A plan of campaign is the nearest you think your
enemy will get to the scheme which beat him last
time.
“Divine Bight” is a German monarch’s claim to
a partnership which was never registered at the
Joint Stock Cos.’ office.
Uhlans are a species of German cavalry whose
chief function is to get captured three times a day
by war correspondents.
A general is an officer appointed as providor of
war news. The chef, who decides when the supplies
shall be taken out of cold storage and put on the
menu, is officially styled the Intelligence Depart-
ment.
“The Fleet” is that small part of the floating
defences which is so newly launched that it has
not even had time to reach the sera]) heap.
Submarines are the needles of the navy—provided
with one eye apiece, and useless when they lose that.
War correspondents are civilians who save you
the trouble of inventing your own war stories.
“Der Tag” was a German naval toast signifying
“the day” upon which the Germans would be eager
to meet the British fleet. It is now understood to
have been a contraction of “the-dav-after-to-inorrow.”
A mediator is a benevolent old gentleman who will
settle it all for you after you have settled it your-
self.
A Kitchener is a remarkable implement of east-
iron used for roasting an enemy.
A neutral is one who notifies both parties that he
is still carrying on his well and favorably known
cash business at the old address.


ŉ
n
Z' 3 is*
! hiii’J s
77
}%vj ftTr
H
WikliJ, I 1
i /.
Mi
Ws.
%
wmrnr^A
YAM
'S
ŋ
Coughs
UNO
COLM
MAY LEAD T 3
CONSuriPTiorj
A bottle of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Coro should be Kept in EVERY HOUSE
No house is complete without its Medicine Cupboard, and no Medicine Cupboard
is complete without a bottle of
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure
■■ ■■■■■■ ——■
T H nffT St COmm in existGnce ts a Cold"; but how many Bright Young Lives have been cut
1 off how many Brilliant Careers prematurely ended through the simple neglect of “Just a Cold” If nP nni
only realised that nearly all victims of Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Asthma. Plluris x and
sumption, owe their condition to the sad neglect of “Just a Cold,” there would be fewer
bereavements to grieve over and fewer heart-breaking partings to be inevitably faced. Nearly all !
Bronchitis, Asthma, Pneumonia, Pleurisy and Consumption COMMENCED with “Just a Cold" nI t' °
a “Cough” is despised for its very insignificance, for the simple reason that in its early .Wes it X °
inconvenience to the Patient-even though it may irritate and annoy Church Congregations and
Theatre Audiences. If you have a Cold that has got right out of hand and haonm ’ • oncert and
ALARMING SYMPTOMS showing, you need to get on to the RIGHT TREATMENT without S It
cases that HEARNES Bronchitis Cure proves most valuable-although ONE DOSE of tl w TT,
remedy will very often prove sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold. wonderful
HE ARNE’S Bronchitis Cure is obtainable from any reputable Chemist or
Storekeeper, or by Post direct from
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD.
GEELONG, Victoria.
For genera,1 use
Ihe ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
■, . , , complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
e ping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HAN BURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
n
DIET
There is no need for Australians to
US€
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
TTr . . 1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/S in stamps for a large tube,
which will !»■ sent post free.
1C
EUDEN TA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d,


Butter Knife, Jam Spoon and Bread
Server, Solid Silver, Pearl Handles, Hand
Engraved, £2/5./-
AUNDERS
Big Values in Case Goods
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER
-ir. i h
Jam Spoon and Butter Knife,
Richly Hand Engrved, in Silk-lined Case,
10/6.
Nut- Crackers and Picks, Pure
Silver-plated, Richly Embossed, Xylon-
ite Handles, enclosed in Case, 25/-
These Designs
would make
Beautiful Gifts
and prove of
real practical
use in the
Home. We send
them post free
anywhere.
m
9! \
I
1
;
Jf'isn JKlliveS and Forks, Pure Silver-plated Blades and
Handles. Empire Design, in Solid Oak Case, 35/-
Hundreds of
other selections
to choose from,
personal ly
guaranteed by
us. Let us post
you our Catalog
—it is free.
Four o’clock Cake Forks, Pure
Silver-jrlated, Embossed Handles,
Afternoon ]>essert Knives anti Forks,
A 1 quality, richly engraved Blades, Pearl Handles,
£3/3/-
Meat Carvers, Buckhorn Handles, Carving Knife, Fork and Steel Sheffield
Silver Steel, Hand-forged Blade, Velvet-lined Case, 12/6.
Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 15/6.
/ -
807
817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SIEMENS
□
LAMPS.
The Life and Efficiency of an Electric
Lamp depend upon the composition
and construction of the Filament.
“Wotan” Lamp Filaments are made of 'Pure Drawn
Tungsten Wire —the most satisfactory material
known. Being wound in one continuous length
without joints of any kind, Wotan Filaments aie
capable of withstanding a considerable amount of
vibration and rough usage.
“Wotan” Lamps are noted for Strength, Brilliance
and Low Current Consumption.
Obtainable at all Electrical Dealers, or from
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
WorKs Ltd.,
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street,
SYDNEY.
When Three
is Company
EDISON PHONOGRAPH —as
an Entertainer and Educator
No home should be without an Edison Phonograph. It will sing; it will
play all kinds of instruments; it will laugh and make you laugh; it will
recite; it will set the young people dancing; it will comfort the aged with
its grand old hymns beautifully sung; it will reproduce some of the best
parts of grand opera and comic opera.
It is always a ready and willing entertainer, and adjusts itself to each one s
likes. There is no gift that could be more appreciated than the Edison
Phonograph, and none that could give more real pleasure to the
recipient.
Moreover, the atmosphere of the home where an Edison is used is so
clearly musical that the children must imbibe much that could be acquired
in no other way.
They are in sizes and styles to suit all requirements, and are sold at a
great variety of prices. Obtainable at all Edison dealers.
AN INTERESTING BOOK—
“THE MODERN BLARNEY STONE”—SENT FREE.
A special cylinder that fits any Edison Phono-
graph, and upon which you can record your
voice in the quiet of your home, is invaluable
to singers and speakers.
It will immediately repeat that which has been
spoken or sung into it. Defects of vuiee inaj,
by the use of this Outfit, be quickly and
thoroughly eliminated. A booklet entitled
“'l'lie Modern Plarney Slone,” and giving full
details of this (quipmei.t, will he sent post free
lo your address. Write now for it.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney


The Vest PocKet Kodak.
the miniature camera
rig'ht as a watch
A few years.ago it was a common thing to see
dozens ol: amatenr photographers with their cameras
perched on tripods and their heads under the focusing
Hollis, hnl Kodak simplicity and convenience have made
the old type of camera almost a curiosity. Of course,
you see more cameras to-day than you ever did before,
but they are usually the compact folding-iype Kodaks,
which have so conclusively demonstrated their efficiency
the world over.
And now there lias come still another type of
camera, not to displace the many efficient instruments
already in use : —but. to supplement them in such j.
practical, and convenient way that there will be no need
toi' one to go anywhere without a Kodak tucked away in
one of his pockets.
The Vest Pocket Kodak is the little instrument
which has already so satisfactorily demonstrated its
convenience to thousands of Kodak enthusiasts. You
will probably not see so many of these little Kodaks as
you have their larger brothers, but it will be because
they are usually in their owners’ pockets, where they
are out of the way, but may be produced in an instant
when there is an occasion for a picture.
And for this reason, no matter how many cameras
you may own—you should also possess a Vest Pocket
Kodak. It is so small and smooth that it is pocketed
without annoyance, and is instantly ready for business
without focusing. Put the fact that it is more conveni-
ently carried in a pocket than in the hand appeals most
to those who like a Kodak for a constant companion.'
It has been said that the Vest Pocket Kodak is “as
right as a watch —the very essence of efficiency”—and
so it is. It will make pictures equal in every way to
those made with larger cameras, the only difference being
in their size. P>u! the size of the picture is more than
made up by the convenience of the Kodak itself and the
fact that the little negatives may readily be enlarged to
post-card size with the Vest Pocket Enlarging Camera
without the loss of any of their sharpness or detail. In
fact, they seem to gain detail when enlarged to reason-
able size.
The V.IVK. takes pictures l§in. x 2Jin.
Eight exposure spools, Is. each.
The New Kodak Catalogue, giving full description of this
and other cameras will be posted free to any address.
Other Kodaks from 21/- each, and Brownies 5/- to 50/-
—•c
t.'
:
■ S
$
<■>
C mi
J.
r-^
ITS
SI
'b
Vyy*" v
Vw*
iA.
L/
a
P 2
“ The V.P.K. is instantly ready for business
KODAK Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The Block," 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL : 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. : 76 Stuart Street.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVKitY EVENING, AT 8.
MATIN HRS: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
TJVO L I THEAT It K, SYDNEY.
1 PAUL OINQUEYAT.LI. L’lncomparable.
BETH TATE, the Californian Girl.
BARONESS DA STREET
AL HERMAN, “The Black Laugh.”
VAUDE * VERNE : TED MERCELL : POWER BROS. ;
HARRY TAFT: MARCO & FAUCTION WOLFF.
lIAMMOX k WYATT.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson's.
■y IVOT.I THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FLORENCE SMJTHSON.
RUSSELL & HELD. TOM KELLY.
JEROME & CARSON. AL ROYER.
ROBERTS & LESTER. DEXTER.
PHIL KAUFMAN. DE DIO.
WELCH & CARBASSE.
Box Plan at Glen's. PRICES: 4/'-, 3/-. 2/-, 1/-.
IVO L 1 T II EA T It E, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
DUSTY RHODES. TEDDY.
CARPATU BROS.
EUGENE DAMOND. BARNEY & TOOIIEY.
RICH & GAT.VTN.
RALPH ERROLLE. ADELE BARTLETTE.
STEELING & R E YELL.
HElt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, PERTH.
Governing-Director: HUGH D. MoINTOSII.
OMEGA TRIO, E. THORNLEY-DODGE, TORINO,
THE VILLIONS. WARREN & ST. LEON, .TOSH
DIXON, AERIAL WELDOS, TWO KADAMAS,
MONAHAN & SHEEHAN, KHACHT BROS.,
EDWARD RAINER, MORLEY & BATES.
Prices: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.' No Extra Fees.
|_l E it M A ,1 E STY’S, S Y I) N E Y.
' ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
In a Musical Play in Three Acts,
THE GIRL TN THE TAXT.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
ylt E A THE RO Y A 1., SYI)N E Y.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
NELLIE STEWART as Mine. DU BARRY.
In George Musgrove’s production of BEL A SCO’S
Great Play,
D U B A li ]l Y.
PRICES AS USUAL.
An EI.P II I TIIEA T R E. SHINE Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Last Nights of UNDER TWO FLAGS.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5.
GEORGE WILLOIT,.GHBY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, in
THE SOLD! Ell’S WEDDING.
For the First Time in Sydney.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s-.
Amusements.
D A I. A C E T II i: A T IJ K. S V II N K Y.
■ Direction BEAUMONT SMITH & LOUIS MEYER.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING.
Will be presented th« most interesting piny of
Modern Times.
MR. WU.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-.
l’lan at Nicholson’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
(VI A T 1 O X A L T II E A T It E. S Y I) N E Y.
1 * Governing- Director .... HEN J. l-'UELER.
At 2.00, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8.
17- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1 & 6d.
SCHELLS’ LIONS. ROSA LOADER.
BOM)INI BROS. CUNNINGHAM ,v ROSE.
Fanny rice, white & giieig.
HENRI FRENCH. EARY TRIO.
CREMEII & ARNOLD. FRANK HERBERT.
Evening Prices as Usual.
'Phone Central 906 for Reservations.
M I* E It I A L SALON I) E LUX E.
Manager: MICHAEL JOSEPH.
DANC I N G
E VERY EVEN I N G.
PRICES AS USUAL,
Yon haven't seen Sydney until you've visited
T H E I*l CTI ItE BLOCK THEATRES.
1 In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES : 3d. to 1
GREATER .7. I). WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Harrington Mjllkk, General Manager,
JH E OLYMI* I A , SYI>N E Y .
COLOSSAL PEOPLE'S ENTERTAINMENT BY
YV EST’S PICT U E i;s, LTD.
"REST OF ALE.”
FAMILY M A TINEE—SATI:I!I)A V.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAI! ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson's (No Extra Fee). !
g PENCE It’S LYCE U M. SYl> N E Y
THE WORLDS BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL.
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices : 1/6, 1/. & 6d. Plan at Paling's k White Rose.
THE KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
• Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
E. J. CARROLL, in conjunction with J. C.
WILLIAMSON LTD., presents
RUNTY PULLS THE STRINGS.
By GRAHAM MOFFAT.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 2/-.
Amusements.
I 10 K MA .1 KST VS 111 i:\TKIO. M CI.HOC |{\K.
1 Direction .T. C. WILLIAMSON, Lti».
Last Two Nights of Til 10 FORTY THIEVES.
NEXT SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 5.
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
iu
GIPSY LOVE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: Os., 45., 2s. and Is.
Til 10 ATIt E UOV A L, MELBOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Lib.
Last Two Nights of A ROYAL DIVORCE.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 5.
TM E SC Ali L ET PI .M PERN EL.
FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
PRICES: Dross Circle and Reserved Stalls, G/- ;
Stalls. 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan's.
DRI N C ESS’S Til EAT RE. MELBOI KNE?
■ Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
GEO. \\ ILLOUGHBY, LTD., present, in conjunction
with Beaumont; Smith and Louis Meyer,
THU GLAD UYH.
THE FUNNIEST PLAY WITHIN MEMORY.
Prices: D.C. and R.S.. T il. Plan at Pianola.
D I .1 O U T II E A ’l’ R 10. M E I, B O I R N E.
U FULLER- BRIO NN A N V Al' DE VILLE.
Governing Director BEN .1, FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AITERXOoy. 2.50. EVENING AT S.
THE HARTLEY "WONDERS. REEL AML
THE GREAT WIOSTIN. MATILDE A ELVIRA.
HUGHES MUSICAL TRKRj CARLTON MAX.
CASELLI SISTERS. THE STRATTONS.
WESTON & lIILI.. PHILLIP SISTERS.
Prices: 20, 2/-. 1/- A 6d. Matinees: TO, 1/- & Cd.
MAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
,TB By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENC Kirs PICT HUES.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
|y| E I - » o U R N 10 GLACI A It I U M.
ICE-SK A T I N G.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
W 1 * T ’ s *’ AIV C K - M KI.ItO U R N E.
I ill. BEST AES 1 S I 1( 1 l ! I{ ES tiif BEST
OE ALL LIMITED. or' \u,
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. Wkst.
NIGHTLY AI S. Matinees Wednesdavs, Saturdavs
and All ITolidavs at 2.50.
Tim Gre.vtkst Pictorial Evmimiisn is the Worth
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note alwavs to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.'
Amusements.
E 2 1 H C H & C A K Ii « L I,
(Queensland).
TIIJ'IATIIK'AL AND PICTURH MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures-and Vaudeville in all the princi- j
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over (his I
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of I
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film 1
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hi to OKFift:: BOTHWFBL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Missing Friends.
IX FORMATION is sought ns to the)
whereabouts of EDWIN SUER WIN
ROWE, former]v of Nowrn. Auctioneer, and
SAMEEE JOSEPH TOOGOOI ). formerly
of Smithfield, Gentlemen, who are supposed
to have been interested as Owner and Mort-
gagee respectively in property at Tomerong,
in the Parish of Waudrawandian.
RYAN & WIIEELEII, Solicitors,
Iviama.
MO AD AM, —Present address wanted of
EDWARD Ale A DAM. Born Shau-
niek. Clones, Ireland. Joined loth Royal
Irislt (Second Battalion). Stationed jit
Aldershot ,‘>o years ago and left for Aus- ;
tralia with regiment. Last heard of was at '
Sydney. N.S.W., and had got a grant of ;
land from Government on his discharge. S
Supposed to .have gone to guinfields from
goldfields, llis sister, Mary Anne McAdam.
Whitehall Street. Clones, Ireland, is
anxious for information about him.
Business Notices.
<
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP 99 celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“ Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Cnllins St. Melbourne
COLORED POST-CARDS, hv Ilarrv J.
Weston—.“WEEKLY WORRIES.'’ Set
of six, posted free, Gd. Bui.letin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.


TO REDUCE WEIGHT.
£lOO IN CASE OF FAILURE.
HOW ANY FAT PERSON CAN QUICKLY
REGAIN A SLENDER, WELL-FORMED
FIGURE.
Every fat man or woman can now reduce
fat to normal without dangerous drugs, oils
or _ acids, tiring exei*cises, weakening diets,
irritating bath salts or other harmful old-
time methods. Certain harmless sea plants
extract known as Salith leaves actually dis-
solve all excess fat and prevent more fat
from forming so that a permanent weight
reduction is produced without leaving
wrinkles or flabbiness even in the most
obstinate cases. Do not think your case is
too difficult or abnormal. No matter how fat
you may be, no matter what your age, sex
or condition of health, nor how many things
you have tried without success, get a box of
Salith leaves from your chemist to-day, take
them as directed and watch yourself grow
thin. Proof of the remarkable value of
Salith leaves is shown by the fact that £lOO
will he paid to the fii’st man or woman
weighing over 20 stone who can satisfac-
torily prove that after following the Salith
leaves treatment as directed, his or her
weight is not reduced. Salith leaves are
not expensive, purely vegetable and are
guaranteed perfectly harmless. Weakness
and lassitude quickly disappear, and you
feel more vigorous right from the stai-t.
Stop when you have reduced as much as
desired.*
What is the Best Beauty Soap
for the Complexion?
There is at present a great controversy
going on in the English newspapers about
the best soap to use for the complexion.
Some advocate the use of one and some
another kind, but they are all satisfied on
one or two points, and those are that for a
soap to be beneficial to the skin, must be
one without coloring matter, and without a
lot of strong, coarse, irritating perfume being
added, and also that the soap must be made
from good ingredients without a preponder-
ance of soda, which makes the skin hard.
An English soapmaker lias been able to
combine all the above good qualities in a
soap, and at the same time to incorporate
some of the puritol wax, which is so much
in demand as a complexion beautifier and
protective, so that on washing with Puritol
Wax Soap there is a trace of the wax left
on the skin, which, by its continuous sooth-
ing and corrective action on the skin and
its pores, keeps it in a healthy and pure
state, and prevents the formation of pimples
and blemishes on it.
THE HOWARD: Exact.
In 1829 Edward Howard was apprenticed to
Aaron Willard, Jun., the descendant of a long
line of English Watchmakers, who settled in the
Massachusetts Colony about the middle of the
eighteenth century.
In 1840 he started in business for himself. Up
to that time watches had.always been made by
handwork exclusively. Howard’s plan was to
make automatic tools that should perfect the
parts of a watch, leaving to the hand the task of
assembling and finishing the parts.
In 1842 the first Howard Watch was produced
—a thoroughly practical watch. The Howard of
to-day is the finest practical timepiece in the
world for a man to carry in his pocket.
It has a patented hard-tempered steel balance,
which will not knock out of true with the jolt
and jar of the severest service.
Peary carried a Howard on his trip to the
Pole.
Orville Wright relied on a Howard in his Aero-
plane Tests.
Admiral Chas. D. Sigsbee carried a Howard for
forty years.
Send your address for the Illustrated Watch
catalogue.
PROUDS LTD.
Jewellers and
Watchmakers,
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
OUR CENSOR.
THE BULLETIN'S -!! -? --!
-( he cut this out) Censor in the act
of putting a few finishing touches on the
artist's front-page cartoon.
There being much clamor as to who intro-
duced the Old Age Tension to Australia, it
is best to go back to the printed record.
The O.A.P. idea, so far as Australia is con-
cerned, began in Victoria. Good old George
Turner was Premier, and his principal col-
leagues were Isaacs, Peacock and Duffy.
The first Turner Ministry lost its job over
the matter, and McLean, Shiels, Irvine,
McCay and Watt came in. The second
Turner Ministry, which included Turner,
Isaacs, Peacock and Trenwith, put the mat-
ter through. Turner never got much credit
for it. He wore an old brown suit and
hated the limelight. Nobody in Australia
wore a browner suit than Turner.
“11.11.”: According to N.S.W. State Pre-
mier Holman’s policy speech—a compara- _
tively recent document, though owing to the
fuss of recent events it already looks 100
years old :
Rather than assist in increasing the sweltering
population of Sydney we would prefer to see the
whole scheme of assisted immigration disappear
altogether.
Why doesn’t Holman try for once to re-
member that he is pledged to a policy of
decentralisation and State ownership of
land? The alternative doesn’t lie between
stopping immigration and “increasing the
sweltering population of Sydney.” Why not
let 500,000 people swelter in a State-owned
city on Port Stephens or some such place, as
distinguished from the private-landlord-
owned city on Port Jackson.
The last man who clamors for the Free-
trade candidate these days is A. G. Iluie,
of 05 Market-street, Sydney, the person
who runs the Standard. During the first
half of this year N.S.W. imported goods to
the value of £1,500,000 more than its ex-
ports. So it paid that £1,500,000, and about
£2,000,000 of interest on its foreign debts,
out of loans. It did the greatest foreign
loan business in its history. It lived by
getting into debt, like any other spendthrift.
Apparently something—High Protection or
some other animal, but The Bulletin
recommends High Protection because there
is nothing else at present in sight—should
be employed to arrest the drift. The last of
the Freetraders proposes that we. should
reduce the small duties we have and increase
the drift.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Much complaint is made to the effect that
N.S.W. bushmen are not volunteering for the
war as numerously as was expected. Still
the bushman is able to show reason. In the
first place, apparently because of the policy
of dragging everything to one big city, fully
two-thirds of the State showed a diminishing
population when the last census was taken.
In other words, the bushman is dying out
and being replaced by the importer’s clerk.
And in the second place, the craze for doing
everything at Sydney is so strong that the
sturdy out-back person from Milparinka has
to come at his own cost all the way to Vic-
toria Barracks to find out if he will be
accepted, and, although the money will be
refunded, the arrangement has not worked
without friction. If Britain established
its one recruiting office at Bombay
or on the Isle of Man, the position
would be about as bad. Certainly it wouldn’t
be much worse. When bushmen are wanted
there is something curiouslv insane about
the policy which plants the whole recruiting
business of a country six times the size of
England alongside a city tram-line.
It is a long time since there was any
talk of personal violence in the well-behaved
South Australian Parliament, but last week
Moseley found on his desk in the Assembly
a pistol, with the card of Newland, an ex-
member ! Who put it there is another
question. Moseley had mentioned in the
House that Newland said something outside
about Butler. Butler said it was “every
word a lie.” Verran mildly suggested a
misunderstanding, and offered to bring New-
land and Moseley together, and the latter
asked for “a meeting at 40 paces, with
pistols.” Some funny person did the rest.
It was not a great joke—but better than
hiding the mace, anyway. The last time there
was serious talk of pistols in Adelaide
was long ago, about IS9O, when Kings-
ton wrote to R. C. Baker. Both were
lawyers, and both had offices in Victoria-
square, under the shadow of the G.P.O.
The suggestion was that, as the clock struck
a named" hour, they should emerge from their
respective doors, fully armed, and pour forth
volleys on each other. Kingston appeared
to be in deadly earnest, and Baker, instead
of turning the whole thing to ridicule,
claimed the protection of the outraged Law.
By James Edmond, 214 George-street,
Sydney:—
“Who Made Australia Safe?” was the shout on
the contents bill of the Sydney Worker last week,
the idea being of course to secure votes for the
Fisher party. Well, Andrew Fisher did more than
anybody else save Alfred Dealdn to help things
along, but nobody made Australia safe. So far as
concerns anything its own politicians have done, it
is about as safe as the principality of Monaco. Its
assets include the thinnest population among
all the white man’s countries on earth; a
rotten tariff; a falling away in immigration
because the rotten tariff gives the German
manufacturer and the German importer such a huge
advantage that we haven’t much work to offer to
immigrants; the biggest debt per head on earth ; a
credit that has been strained so much in peace time
that there is very little margin left for war time,
in consequence of which it may be regarded as burst;
a strange variety of railway gauges; a considerable
herd of unemployed ; a complete absence of uniform
railway control; a great lack of pants because we
haven’t learned to make our own pants; a deficit;
a swelled head; and an insane confidence that real
war will never come our way. Also,’ we have a
Federal note which the Government lacks the cour-
age to make compulsory. Now, who did make
Australia safe?
The war is bringing out the patriotism
of . the people. It is doing something else —
it is making certain papers that, all their
existence, have barracked for the foreigner
and his works as against the Australian and
his little bit declare that patriotism is
synonymous with Protection. For in-
stance, perpend the Foreign Trade S. M.
Herald:—
This lies in our hands, to help or to hinder our
great country. We can buy our own manufactures.
We can use the goods we make ourselves. When we
go to buy a pound of candles we can make sure we
are getting Australian candles. If we buy boots let
us see that they are Australian boots. If we must
drink wine, let it be Australian wine.... The drapery
trade is likely to suffer as much as any other, but by
refusing to buy ready-made imported goods we can
help our own girls and women. We do not wish to
buy Berlin-made models nou> (12/8/’l4).
The state of war will give a self-reliance to our people
that no mere tariff will give. It will force home the idea
that there are some industries that are quite national
in importance—for instance, the iron and oil indus-
tries. It will, in all probability, stimulate our textile
industries, and make our people feel that it is their
duty to support them, not only in time of war, but
also in time of peace (26/8/’l4).
Therefore, friends and brethren, let us put
up the tariff very high, and make sure that
our people will find it their profit as well as
their duty to support' our industries in time
of peaco. Let us even put it so high that
the S. M. Herald will bear a hand at estab-
lishing local paper mills.
[P. T, Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street, Sydney.]
THE HOLY WAR.
Reverend Rentoul, of Melbourne, complains bitterly that his young divinity students are forsaking
the good work to go off to the war. —News item.
Dr. Rentoul would appear to be unaware of the recent peculiar metamorphosis of the
Kaiser. He's the very D.[?] and the good young men are merely out on business.
When the Muscovites left an army to
besiege Kbnigsberg and hurried on towards
Berlin, many an old Prussian junker must
have felt that the omens were not favor-
able. Kbnigsberg began as a wooden fort,
built by the Teutonic knights in 1255, when
the Prussians still sacrificed horses in honor
of their gods. The Dukes of Prussia began
to hang out there some 400 years ago. The
first king of Prussia was crowned there.
The first of the Hohenzollern German Em-
perors was also crowned there. Kbnigsberg
has been Prussia ever since there was any
kingdom of that name. If the old town
is lost the event will seem very like the
stealing of the Ark of the Covenant.
Australia’s insufficient Protection got
another advt. before the Tariff Commission
at Sydney lately. Manufacturer A. ,T.
Brierley, having withdrawn his application
for increased duties on dressed timbers,
handed out this patriotic puff:—
His firm thought it useless to go on. The Russian
Government had treated them well, and they had
decided to establish mills in Siberia, where they could
get cheaper labor and ship the finished product to
Australia. The Government of Australia had not
considered them.
All the same Brierley shouldn’t be in a
hurry. One of these days a real Protec-
tionist Government will arise and smite
foreign-dressed timbers with such a tariff
that his cheaply-produced Siberian article
will have a job to get into Australia edge-
wise.
[P. T. Freeman, 22 Cleveland-street, Sydney.]
Some of these days we might find out just
what the Liberals are, Freetrade or Protec-
tion. Joe Cook is howling Protection, and
promises Australia a decent tariff if he
gets back with a majority. Now The
Standard (a Freetrade paper published in
Sydney by A. G. Iluie, the modest gentle-
man who forfeited his £lO deposit at the
last Federal elections because he couldn’t
persuade more than a handful of electors
that Freetrade would save the country)
comes out with this:—
The Liberal party is seeking to force the Freetrade
Liberals to degrade themselves by voting for H. E.
Pratten, one of the worst Protectionists in the
country.
So the Liberals will evidently consider it a
degradation to vote for Joe Cook because he
has promised Protection. If Cook does get
back into power and takes Pratten with
him there might be a chance of a tariff;
but if Pratten, who is Chairman of the
Chamber of Manufacturers, is left behind,
there doesn’t seem to be another Liberal
capable of keeping Cook up to his promise-
ins own political conscience might, but The
Bulletin is beginning to doubt whether he
has one. So this paper merely hopes that
if we must have Cook, we’ll have Pratten —
even Pratten without Cook is better than
Cook without Pratten.
[Henry Kenneth Prior, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
By way of rounding things off Austria
has declared war on Japan. They can no
more reach one another than an ass can
reach a whale, but the thing looks well.
The Bulletin's announcement of a week
ago that Switzerland had attacked Bolivia
is now justified.
The finest rifle in Europe is the one that
little Belgium has been using so effectively
against the Germans. It is the latest type
of automatic, and is the quickest weapon in
the world, being capable of firing between
30 and 40 rounds per minute. Also the
muzzle velocity of the bullet is much higher
than that of either the Lee-Enfield or the
Mauser. The weapon is known merely as
the Belgian Army Rifle. The point that
this continent should note is that Belgium
doesn’t import this rifle. It is made locally
in a Government factory.
THE “ TELEGRAPH ” PREPARES TO
BURY ITS DEAD.
Out of the evil of the war, unspeakable as it
may be, at least one good thing for Australia is
likely to come. The people are getting a valuable
lesson in the virtue of self-help. Hitherto we have
been accustomed to rely mostly upon the Old World
for making up our raw materials, and also for pro-
viding us with the bulk of our capital for develop-
mental enterprise. —Sydney Telegraph, 24/8/’14..
THE NAIL.-DRIVER: “Sorry as I ham to lost
' im , I can't ’elp but admitting that
a very good thing for ther country
will be this ’ere demise .”
AUSTRALIAN VOTE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Vote, brothers, vote
For the Caucus that created local Forces of Defence
When the nations were at peace and looking pleasant:
For the statesmen who did honor to the workers’
confidence
(Despite the allegations re their “lack of common
sense”),
By providing for the future which is present.
Vote, brothers, vote.
Vote, brothers, vote!
Time was when many numbskulls lent a large and
willing ear
To the Fat Man's warning Anti-Labor dictum ;
Hut vain alarms have vanished like the leaves of
yesteryear,
Or the Tantanoola Tiger, or the froth upon a beer,
Or the bubbles of our boyhood, when we pricked ’em.
Vote, brothers, vote!
Vote, brothers, vote
For the men who sc’fve the many and are hated by
the few,
Their strength of honest purpose has been tested ;
Their reckless legislation when it passes in review
(A’’ those Socialistic measures which we didn’t have
to rue)
Is a lesson to the Tories who protested.
Vote, brothers, vote.
Vote, brothers, vote
For all the sworn opponents of the futile Joseph Cook
And his old obstructive Trust and Combine faction;
For the men who go ahead, but never leap before
they look,
The preachers of a gospel who are guided by their
Book—
For the sturdy, staunch, persistent men of action.
Vole, brothers, vote.
[EDMUND FISHER,
309 Collins-street, Melbourne.]


IMPORTANT NOTICE
to Agents, Contributors 8 Others
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Ltd.
notify that it has disposed of its
interest in “ The Lone Hand ”
Magazine to Syd. Dav, The
Pri nter, Ltd., who will print and
publish all succeeding issues.
All literary, artistic contribu-
tions and correspondence in future
to be addressed to the above firm,
214 George Street, Sydney.
MODEL “ N ’’—HORIZONTAL STATIONARY
OIL ENGINES ; 1 to 100 H P.
mm
INVINCIBLE
MODEL “M”—VERTICAL STATIONARY
OFL EN ILVES : 2 to 10 H.P.
MARINE-
STATIONARY
and PORTABLE
OIL ENGINES
The Best in the World
Simplest—Strongest - Most Durable-Most Economical.
Invincible” Engines are oil show at our Depots in tile following towns of New South
Wales:—Canowindra. Coolamon, (Jootanuindra, Delungra. Gilgandra, Glen Inn s, Grenfell,
Inverell, Lockhart, Manilla, Molong, Mudgee. Murvvilluinliah, Xi.rrabri, Narroinine, Parkes, Peak
Mill, Scone, lam worth, Taree, Temora, Trundle, The Rock, Wellington, West Wy&long.
At these Branches we are keeping full sets of all Duplicate Parts, and expert services are
always available.
See an “Invincible” working'. It will convince you. It is the simplest in design,
the easiest to operate, the sweetest-running, and. because of these qualifies, it costs you the least
in repairs. It is built with absolute precision, so that repair parts (of which large supplies
are kept constantly in stock) fit with the utmost accuracy.
“Invincible” Engines are built to run on any Fuel.
Every “Invincible” Oil Engine is Guaranteed for FIVE Years.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. LTD.
Works: WOOLWICH, N.S.W. Sydney Showrooms: 35 PITT STREET.
Sole Distributing Agente ior “INVINCIBLE” STATIONARY
and PORTABLE ENGINES FOR NEW SOUTH WALES are
Messrs. JAMES BELL & CO., 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TRADE HANDBOOKS
We invite readers to call and see our books.
Fuller particulars sent on request.
Carpenters’ Books.
PRICE
STRENGTH OP BEAMS, FLOORS AND Post
ROOFS: Including directions for Design- Free,
inn' and Detailing Roof Trusses, and
104 Engravings, liy Kidder .. .. 10/3
THE STEEL SQUARE AS A CALCU-
LATING MACHINE, by Fair .. .. 2/8
THE STEEL SQUARE*AND ITS USES
SIMPLY EXPLAINED, 200 Diagrams
(1012) 2/8
CARPENTRY AND JOINERV, Comprising
Notes and Materials, Processes, Prin-
ciples and Practice, with 1800 Illustra-
tions and 12 Colored Plates .. .. 9/7
CABINETWORK AND JOINERY: Compris-
ing Designs and Details of Construction,
with 2021 Working Drawings and Photo-
graphic lllustr.dions .. .. .. 0/7
AYOODCARVING : Comprising Practical In-
structions, Examples and Designs, with
1140 Working Drawings and Photo-
graphic Illustrations .. .. .. 9/7
HANDYMAN’S ENQUIRE WITHIN: Mak-
ing, Mending, Renovating, with 029
Working Drawings and 12 Colored Plates 9/7
CIRCULAR WORK IN CARPENTRY, by
Collings .. .. . . . . . . 2/8
WOODWORKING: A Book of Tools,
Materials and Processes for the Handy-
man, with 2545 Illustrations .. .. 9/7
MODERN CABINET WORK. FURNITURE
AND FITMENTS, b.v Wells and Hooper 1 .>/9
BEY ELS AND CUTS, easy methods of
marking them, by Hardy .. .. 2/8
COTTAGE BUILDING, by Allen .. .. 2/2
HANDRAILING AND STAIRBUILDING,
bv Collings 2/8
JOINTS MADE AND USED BY BUILDERS 3/3
JOINERS’ MACHINES AND HOW TO
WORK THEM . . . . ).
1/5
Painters’ Books.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
Here is a List of
Soldiers’ Needs!
Give them comforts — they'll need them, these men who
go to fight the Empire’s battles. Any one of the articles tee
mention below possesses all the elements desired by the
soldier. They keep him in touch with civilisation —minister
daily to his comfort.
Watch Bracelet.
J 6195 —Sterling Silver Watch Bracelet, with Fine
Quality Full-Jewelled Lever Movement and OK/
Strong Leather Strap. Price
Fountain Pen.
05589—The “ONOTO” self-filling, self-cleaning, self-
regulating Fountain Pen, with Nib to suit his -j /_
hand. Price * •“/
Military Hair Brushes.
Pair Real Ebony Military Hair Brushes, in strong,
compact Leather Case, taking up very little room. .. n ■■£+
Price 1
Leather Purse.
Strong Leather Purses, containing places for
money, stamps, letters, etc. A great ty Ifs Ald
variety to choose from. Some Prices j
Safety Razor.
0998—“ The Treasure” Safety Razor, with 24 double*
edged blades in Best Quality Leather Case. This
razor is equal to the usual 21/- kind. Special ■» n ig*
Price I^/0
Numbers of other welcome gifts illustrated in our new
Catalog. Write promptly for a copy.
Postage Paid on all Goods to any Address in Australia,
AUSTRALIA). Lto.
X


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LI JILTED, Redfern, Sydney.
FOR THREE YEARS.
DR MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
THE SOLE FAMILY MEDICINE.
Mr. Will:tin Goodall, Asquitt Street, N.
Auburn. N.S.W., writes “I arrived in this
State three years ago, and at that time, not
feeling well, was recomended to try yon
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Since then
I have used no other medicine for eitliei
myself or family, and can safely^recommend
them to anyone not feeling well. Laiejj a
week passes but what some member ot nr
family needs medicine, and when a whole
family finds Dr. Morses Indian Root 1 ills
sufficient for all their requirements for three
years it speaks volumes for the effieacj ot
that remedy.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Iteg. Baker’s patriotic carnival in Sycl-
iey, on September 7 (next Monday), is going to be
the biggest, maddest splash. Nobody ever suspected
Keg. Baker of a streak of insanity before, but this
affair seems to indicate that he has one stowed
about the premises. The upheaval starts with a vast
procession from the Domain at 1.30 p.m. The first
thing that will affright the unsophisticated stranger
will be a conglomeration of at least a dozen bands.
Presumably they will all be playing different tunes,
as musicians are proverbially cranky. Then there will
be half a dozen fire brigades, and at the tail end of
the fire fighters’ section will be the historic Dark
Town Fire Brigade—the identical body over which in
our youthful days we split our sides and laughed till
the pain of it pulled us up. 'they will have motor
engines, horse engines and nigger engines. The
N.S.W. Lancers and their band will whirl along.
The Legion of Frontiersmen, mounted and unmounted,
will twine, snake-like, through the wondering streets.
The automobile corps will toot along. The motor-
bike section will swing easily in its place in the
great tide. Guillaux will be there with his aero-
plane, clattering along the Appian Way. The mounted
police and their band will give an atmosphere of
law and stodge to the giant procession. Last of all,
bringing the real atmosphere home, will come a
cloud of boy scouts, naval cadets and boy. soldiers.
This mass will wind its way from Domain to Agri-
cultural Ground, and the head of the column or
snake, should arrive at. the ground by 3 p.m. Then
the displav will begin. Naval and Fire Brigades will
gallop -ound giving ladder and other displays. The
Lancers will do tent-pegging. There will be a tug-
of-war on horseback. The Naval Dockyard Police
will show' how our men at Mons used the
bayonet on the Germans. There will be a Gretna
Green race bv the Lancers. The greasy pig will
nose his tail into the proceedings. There will be a
sort of Roman race between three chariots, each
drawn by a three-in-hand team. Captain Penfold
will soar aloft in his balloon and Guillaux, full
blown private, will soar after him, and, perhaps,
make him a prisoner. It will be the wildest, maddest
show ever put on in Svdnev, and so vast is the pro-
gramme that no less than three events will be taking
place simultaneously. In the evening 20 massed
bands will blare all the way from the city to the
Stadium, and at 8 p.m. the fun will commence in
that biffsome structure. Lieutenant-Colonel Roth
and an army sergeant will give a display of bayonet
versus sword, and sword against sword. A .Japanese
gentleman and a French lady will engage in a. jui-
jitsu contest: Fred Baker and Victor Gershon will
give a display of ‘‘combined self defence ’ (a mighty
interesting business that has made the writer bob]
his hat in his band every time he lias met Fred
Baker since he first saw the demonstration.) A hot
meatpie competition by newsboys may end fatally
and supplies a Roman atmosphere—the Romans were
great on meat pies and the newsboys of the Tiber
Gazette once had a competition at which the three
placed boys dropped dead, two of them having burst.
Reg. Baker’s school boy boxers will give a display.
Last of all four blind-folded boxers will be let loose
in the ring, armed with eight-ounce gloves and go
at it hammer and tongs for three minutes. It is a
great and spectacular show, and the whole of the
gross proceeds will go to the Lawd Mayor’s Patriotic
Fund. _
* * * *
John Bull struck a fine crop of disaster
in one day at the Henley Regatta early in July.
One after the other four of Fogland’s crack rowing
crews went under to foreigners, Leander, Jesus,
London and Thames being dumped in the mud by
Boston, Harvard, Winnipeg and Mayence. The flower
of English rowing never had a hope and not one
home crew got into the semi-final. Like the closing
of the Stock Exchange it was “unthinkable” until
it happened.
* * ■ * *
McLoughlin, the Yankee tennis player
who perforins like a demon on the court, deser\ ed his
double win against Brookes and Wilding, for he
practised hours a day for many weeks at San Finn-
cisco to prepare himself for the Davis Gup contest.
He spilt gallons of perspiration and wore about a
dozen assisting players to skin and bone in endeavoi-
ing to strengthen his back band play. lie was re-
markably weak in that direction, and 12 months ago
Wilding staved off his frantic attack on the V orhl s
Championship bv paying persistently to McLoughlin s
back hand. The Yankee must be a vastly improved
player these days, for to have downed Brookes and
Wilding one after the other is some performance.
Probably, however, the brilliant pair from tins side
of the world were beginning to feel the strain of con-
tinuous playing in a strange land. Also, they might
have been upset by tlie alleged food served up by
the Yankee hotels, which has tied more foreign
athletes in a knot than anything else. In fact, the
defeat of Norman and Anthony is probably attrib-
utable to Chicago meat. Chicago meat will kill any-
thing—in time. Millions have died after eating it
for 65 years.
* * * *
“Blackbutt” writes on a subject of absorb-
ing interest: —With all the reverence at my command
I take off mv best belltopper to the handful of
N.S.W. riflemen who are giving valuable week-ends
at Randwiek (Sydney) to the instruction of the
trainees in the theory and practice of handling the
rifle. In fact, the trouble was to select 40 instructors
without offending all the rest. The Defence Depart-
ment diplomatically side-stepped the difficulty by
giving each patriot a turn at the instruction wheel.
Under this skilled advice and tuition the rawest of
recruits soon got a practical knowledge of the
handling of the modern decider of battles. The
whole of the metropolitan riflemen cheerful}' volun-
teered for service in home defence. They requested
the Defence Department to form them into a brigade
and give them military training. But the war
lords smiled and reassured them that there was no
necessity for it. Better, they said, to join the
various regiments and get their instruction with
them in a way that would not put the Department
to any extra expense. The only fly in the ointment is
that, whereas could the riflemen have a brigade of their
own, every one of them would have been in it. A good
• many of the men may neglect to join the various
regiments, and so miss the military training that
would make them a very powerful factor in the
defence of our country should it be attacked. How-
ever. thank Joss, there does not, seem to be much
chance of it being assaulted.
* * •* *
The lacrosse invasion of N.S.W. by a
Queensland contingent last, week ended in barren
glory for the pilgrims. The team played vimfully
enough—but, like the hastily-recruited soldier, it.
knew nothing of the finer points of the game. In
the first match the Northern team put up an excel-
lent scrap, and went under only by six to seven
goals. But, alack and alas! in the second smash
N.S.W. insulted the slain after slaving the Northern
crowd by nine goals to one. 'The third fixture
was against the N.S.W. second team, and ended in a
draw. So the Northmen trekked home, wiser on the
subject of the correct handling of the onion net and
the attached timber.
* * * *
The second semi-final of Sydney baseball,
on Saturday, attracted a voluble crowd of barrackers,
who parted with a £5O gate to the Patriotic Fund.
An uproarious mob howled advice, epithets and
coarse language to umpire and players without
respect of persons—the kind of misplaced advice
which is the proper ammunition for a riot. When
the game lagged a squeaking voice howled: “Now
then, ump, shyke it up—we want a full gvme!”
Waverley and Petersham were the giants of the
day, and put up one of the best efforts off the sea-
son. Pete was on its mettle, and, though Waverley
led by six runs to two when half-way through the
game, Pete jumped level at the eighth innings (six
all), and only bit the dust through its waywardness
in the last innings. It went out by seven runs to
six. Leichhardt and Paddington were the com-
batants in the early fixture, and Leichhardt won
comfortably by 10 runs to five. The other matches
were side-shows. Burwood waltzed over Mosman-
N. Sydney by 20 runs to 15, and Lane Cove outed
’Varsity by 17 runs to 16. The result of the
premiership hangs on the clash between Leichhardt
and Waverlev on the coming Saturday.
* * * *
Just previous to the outbreak of war an
interesting test was made in England of the value
of motor traction. A battery*of artillery was hitched
up behind a number of powerful motor-cars, and the
commanding officer instructed to make all haste to a
point 80 miles away. In a trifle over 3) hours it
arrived at the place indicated. On some portions of
the journey the guns moved along at 30 miles an
hour. The battery was one of 15-pounders, weigh-
ing, with their limbers. 33cwt. each. This news
should be useful in the war, as the automobile can
stand a lot more bullets than a horse, and also it
eats only while it is working.
What a consumption of motor-tyres there
must be. A recent canvas of the offices of six of the
best known American manufacturers revealed the
astounding fact that the daily output of their estab-
lishments soared up to 42,000 per day. Allowing 25
working days to the month this means 1,050,000
tyres per month, or 12,600,000 per annum. As there
are at least 20 other firms manufacturing tyres in.
the States in as great quantities, the complete pro-
duction must be about 25,200,000 per annum. . The
latest reports show that there are now 1,800,000
motor-cars registered in the Chaotic Republic.
Recently at Brooklands (Eng.) one L. G.
Hornsted whizzed over a mile on a motor-cycle in
28.095ee. —an average of 128 miles per hour. Cer-
tainly it was a stupendous record, but, at the same
time, it is likely to be a splendid business for the
undertakers before it is knocked askew.
The second batch of racecourse habitues
faced the Law at Sydney last week for failing to
look after their income-tax responsibilities, and the
fines paid for the omissions amounted to £270,
with costs. The court was full of howls, strange
noises and snuffle, and one Ikey Mo or Mclsrael
remarked that he hadn’t made any money last
year, which brought the rebuke from Payten, P.M..
that any pastime that didn’t pay was a delusion and
a snare, and should be exchanged for hard work.
However, despite the simplicity of the brute, thou-
sands of punters in N.S.W. have a strange feeling
that the Bookmaker is not the Mug in the betting
business.
* * * *
Thanks to the Tote, Tasmania Turf Club
had a joyous time last season. The machine yielded
a revenue of £5013, which was £523 in excess of
the total stake money paid, and enabled the club to
show a profit of £2358. The clubs which how]
against the Tote must find these pills bitter indeed
and hard to swallow.
* * * *
Despite many alarms, Taranaki, the great
cow-spanking province of Maoriland, continues to
keep its hand on the Ranfurly Shield —the valuable
outward and visible (also mortgageable) sign of
Maoriland football supremacy. Canterbury—the
original home of the Shepherd Kings—fell on the
champion province last week, but the burly teat-
pullers overthrew the wool princes after a hurricane
tussle, by six points to five, it was a close call —
too adjacent to be altogether comfortable.
“Snowy” Baker, Keesing and Nathan at the
Sydney Stadium.
Although deafened by the howls of
Mclsrael and O’Tavish, the Australian Jockey Club
(Sydney) stuck to its guns over the ballot for the
betting stands at Randwiclt. The positions of 140
bookmakers licensed to fleece the public and skin the
punter, were drawn for, and the result scattered
them to the corners of the ground. The men who
had been on the outer circle found themselves
basking in the sunshine, and the mighty who had
thundered from the high places found themselves in
the slush. The ballot system is to have a trial for
12 months.
* * * *
A. E. Bowman, the South Australian
owner, has successfully defended an action for “work-
men’s compensation” by the father and sister of
Jacques, the lightweight jockey killed (in his first
race over hurdles) at Morphettville in April. The
moral defence was that Bowman had paid all the
medical, hospital and funeral expenses, and that the
boy’s father had, as next-of-kin, received the £175
lie owned in property. The legal defence was that
the claimants were not dependent on deceased; and
when another married sister swore that the family
was at loggerheads, that the old man had turned the
boy out, and that she had found him a home herself,
the .Judge thought the matter was settled.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rowing Association has taken an-
other five years’ lease of George Towns’s capacious
boatshed at Gladesville, on the famous Parramatta
River, in which to house its boats and foster its
sport. Clubs will pay 50s. each per annum for the
use of the structure, while the Public Schools are
called upon to put up £3 for a similar privilege.
•Exactly why the schools are penalised in this way
is hard to understand, and, anyhow, it is rotten
policy. Also, why the Ass. should lease, a .shed when
it has ample funds to construct one of its own is
likewise a mystery. In fact the Rowing Ass. is as
mysterious as most other asses.
Phunk, sitting heavily on Les O'Donnell’s
shoulders , enables Eddie McGoorty to bash
at will.
N.S.W. Cricket Association did the proper
thing over its antipathy to compulsory training and
heaved its spleen into the dirt-box. Instead ot' con-
tinuing the howl that compulsory training is ruining
ihe game ot' cricket, the Association added this wee
bit to its annual report:—
“The Association is of opinion that the considera-
tion of this matter should be indefinitely postponed.
Our country at present calls for the undivided support
of all sporting bodies ; and the Association responds
by placing all its resources at the disposal of the
movement. The loyalty of every sportsman is
demanded, and it will be freely extended.”
Then the struggling Ass. bravely handed £25 out of
its meagre assets to swell the fund for the families
of those who are in argument against Kaiser Bill.
* * * *
Fitzroy (Vic.) Cricket Club wants a paM
sec. in general, and C. G. Macartney in particular.
The main difficulty is the salary, ’Roy C.C. not
being overburdened with riches, while the sawn-otf
champion insists on three square meals a day, with
trimmings.
* * * *
“Stumps” : N.S.W. Cricket Association is
going to attempt to galvanise some signs of life into
Grade cricket by altering the system of match play.
The present scheme is that each club plays every other
club, according to a prearranged roster, the result
being that the winner of the competition is known
for weeks before the end of the season, and the
last few rounds are deprived of interest. The new
system is to cull the frail teams at the end of
February, and leave the superior ones to fight for the
premiership. A weak point about the proposal is
that the weather conditions in March will practi-
cally decide the championship. But so many things
threaten to happen in the next six months that the
matter of deciding the dreary cricket premiership
does not seem of transcendent importance. By
the way, what happened to the motion before the
N.S.W. Cricket Association to appeal to the Defence
Minister because compulsory training was interfering
with cricket?
* * * *
A device for alighting safely from a
wrecked aeroplane (or, rather, from one that is about
to be wrecked) seems to have been perfected by a
Yankee named McKay, lie couldn’t get anyone in
his own country who was dare-devil enough to try
the tiling, which works on the parachute principle; so
he packed it up and took it across to France, where
the birdmen are used to risking their necks in all
kinds of contraptions. An imitation eagle named
Melin, one of the upside-down variety of fliers, liked
the look of the device, which is said to be small and
compact. So he got a friend to take him some dis-
tance skyward in a monoplane, and then dropped off.
Tie came down beautifully. Almost before he had
finished singing the praises of the new life-saver the
French Government called round with a cheque for
£l6OO in order to get a 12-months’ option over the
invention. There was no Circumlocution Office busi-
ness about that.
* * * *
The all-round trial at sport between
Oxford and Cambridge is claimed to be the most
complete thing of its kind in the world. For the
year just ended (October to July), Cambridge—in
spite of the Rhodes Scholars at the other place—had
the biggest majority there has yet been for either
side. It won the boatrace, Rugby football, Soccer
football, court tennis, lawn tennis, gymnastics, box-
ing, fencing, athletic sports (jumping and running),
swimming, water polo, racquets, cross-country run-
ning, billiards, ice hockey, sailing, military tourna-
ment and signalling! Oxford’s list was cricket, golf,
polo, steeplechase (point to point), hockey, lacrosse
and chess.
* * * #
A lot is being heard in Adelaide of a new
motor-car spring, invented locally by J. A. Shearer.
The prineinle relied on is distribution of shock, and
Professor Chapman and other experts have pro-
nounced it mechanically sound. Trial runs over the
Port-road—about the worst within reach—are said to
show that a solid-tyred car with it can venture more
pace, and yet run easier, than a pneumatic-tyred
without it; also no harm seems to be done to the
steering. A company is being formed in Adelaide to
push the idea.
* * * *
Flying is not really expensive, according
to Grahame White. You can get an 80-h.p. two-
seated monoplane, or a three-seated biplane, for a
trifle like £l2OO, of which perhaps one-third must
be written off per annum for depreciation. Running
expenses are onlv about sd. a mile, to which add,
every three months (say) £36 for a mechanic, £l2
for storage, £5O for repairs, and £lO for insurance.
Thus “a man can tour by air at an expense which
is—remembering he is a pioneer and enjoying the
thrills of a pioneer—far from being high.”
* * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union is in sore trouble
over its amateur road-race premiership. Four heats
had been contested in the dust between Granville and
Homebusli (Sydney), which had hitherto been the
whirling ground, but the road fell inside out so
badly that the event had to be hung up for a few
weeks. The Union is on the lookout for a piece of
road not likely to be too murderous, and, as it isn’t
likely to find it near Sydney, it will probably have
to hold the balance of the premiership contest in
the country districts. The majority of the shire
councils will not permit racing within their boun-
daries, therefore the union officials are in for sleep-
less nights before the mystery is solved.
A curious case of interest to racing men
cropped up in Maorih.nd the other day. The well-
known mare won the Avondale Stakes last
year, and, as 25 sovs. out of the stake for that event
SO to the “breeder ’ of the winner, trouble arose
when two men put in a claim for the cash. One of
them owned Castalia’s dam when she was sent to the
stud, but sold her shortly before Castalia was foaled.
The other was the man who made the purchase. As
they both reckoned they were the “breeder” of the
winning nag, the case was submitted by the M.L.
Racing Conference to arbitration. Geo. Clifford and
his two assistants decided that the “breeder” of a
horse is the owner of the dam a,t the time that the
foal is dropped. So the man who bought Castalia's
dam a few days before Castalia saw the light has
been rewarded with the 25 sovs. It was a had
decision, but
* * * *
The Sydney liugby Union competition came
to a premature end on Saturday last through the con-
sistent triumph of Gltbe. On that afternoon it fell
on South Sydney and crushed it by 29 to 11. This
gave it 26 competition points, and as the beaten
club was its nearest rival with 22, the contest was
decided. Even if South won on the coming Satur-
day it would still be two to the bad. Eastern
Suburbs obliterated University by 16 to 18, and so
relegated it to fourth place, with 11 points, and
itself took the third place with 19. So ended the
struggle in the “A” division. In the “B” crowd
Western Suburbs inflicted the depressed feeling on
Manly (48 to three). This triumph placed Western
Suburbs at the top of the “B” poll with 19
points. North Sydney overthrew Balmain by II
to five, and shares second place with St. George, they
having 17 each. Randwick has 11, and heads the
once formidable Newtown team, which has only 10.
Balmain and Manly have tour and six respectively.
Next Saturday St. George and North Sydney play off
to decide which of them shall play Western Suburbs
in the final.
* * * *
The fight between Eddie McGoorty and
Ees O'Donnell, at Sydney Stadium, on Saturday night
was a disappointing affair in one way, while in
another it wasn’t, it was vigorous and spectacular,
Eddie McGoorty supplying vim and ferocity enough
to galvanise half a dozen battles. lie was mag-
nificent in his self-confidence, although lie knew as
well as any ringsider in all that vast conglomeration
of experts and fans that O’Donnell was a better
boxer than he. Inside of 90 seconds from the start
of the battle O’Donnell had demonstrated that lie
could hit Eddie every time he wanted to and as
lie listed. Eddie had no illusions on the subject.
But in spite of that overwhelming advantage Ibis
self-reliant young man waded in to put up such a
tight as would counteract the enemy’s advantage by
destroying his morale —and he did it. O’Donnell
was a beaten man from the end of the first round,
it was an extraordinary battle. Here was a boxer
with the advantage of weight and reach (he weighed
12st. 4lb. to Mac's list. 1011 b.), dowered by Heaven
with tlie ability to hit his opponent when and where
he listed with his straight left, overcome and brought
low after the first round, not by McGoorty’s left
hooks, but by McGoorty’s superb self-reliance and
Self-’confidence. O’Donnell was, apparently, over-
awed to such an extent that he failed to even hit.
Again. and again he poked his lance-like left !o
McGoorty’s face. But, ye gods, how did he poke
it 1 Instead of hurling it in as McGoorty did, with
all his weight and his soul behind it, he seemed
content to just touch on the nose a superb fighting
machine like this vimful American. It was exas-
perating to sit there and watch the futile show that
the superior Australian boxer put up against the
American fighter. Boiled down, it simply amounted
to this: The plucky American, although he knew
he was overmatched in skill, set himself to smite
so hard that, even when his rival got in with his
superior left, he would make a brave showing, it
was a case when, according to the rules of the game,
McGoorty should have fought a defensive battle and
got away. But he charged right in. He took his
life in his hands and hurled his head on the floor
of the Stadium when he fell over O’Donnell’s back.
By sheer belief in himself he won handsomely, his
opponent’s seconds, after he had been down twice,
fluttering in the towel. That is the psychological
side of it. From the viewpoint of the bottle-ho
or the bank manager who never fought anything
more serious than what the Maori calls waipiro, ii
probably looked very different. We saw a tall,
lithe, handsome young man of Celtic extraction,
intensely nervous, face a heavy-looking, clean-limbed,
fair American with a jowl. Self-reliance wrapped that
young American like a garment, but he had the
restraint that prevented it becoming arrogance.
It was easy and graceful. They advanced to the
centre of the ring. They fenced for o. moment and
then the American threw himself up against the foe.
That he missed made no difference-. Not to him,
anyway. But it impressed the other immensely.
Apparently he was cursed with an imagination. He
could not help thinking what would have been his
fate had that flying, meat hit its mark. And while-
he thought Half a dozen similar avalanches of flying
meat came at him. Trite, he could smite the
American every time, and did frequently. But he
didn’t smite like a war-lord or an ironclad. All ho
had to do was hit, and hit and hit again, and the
Southern Cross was high, and the tail of Die
kangaroo exalted. But it was the American who
did the hitting act. He played the same part as the
Austrian did at Lissa and the Briton at Mons and
Cambrai. If he got home one in six it was goon
business, and he got home about one in tom, till at
last O’Donnell went down twice in the filial lound
for eight seconds. After that. Ins seconds decided
wiselv to blow up what remained of the fleet an.,
abandon the wounded, and form the wreck ofthr
army into a hollow square for purposes of retue
ment. „ *
* * *
At Brisbane Stadium on Saturday the
well-known Joe Russell humped Hector Melville.
The original Hector, he of Troy, was dragged b> <
heels at the tail of the chariot of' Achilles, lmt t ■
modern version, the latest progeny■ of the
on the fighting list, was out to red|gm the nam •
He scaled 9st. lflb. to Russell s9st. 31b. All tl
same, he fell on his opponent with vim and teiocii •
He had the advantage of height and reach, and 1
used it to the best advantage. Russell was a*
as they are made, and, moreover, full of se
donee.' He charged in gallantly, and went for the
1 >odv, and for 16 rounds had the better of a valj na
battle, in which Fortune, more fickle than usual,
hovered from one side to the other \\ hen the lHh
started Russell was distinctly ahead on points, an
Hector looked to be booked for another journe.i with
his heels foremost. But as Russell rushed in Hectoi
remembered Achilles’ dodge. He became waij.
side-stepped and smote as he stepped, and cut
Russell’s eye badly. Then, like a flash, he Jmrled
himself, head downward, like a Iving-street tram, at
the disconcerted foe. Whether it was his head oi his
fist or both that smashed Russell no one but the
combatants knew, but Russell was
knocked out, though still on Ins feet. He had the
self-control and governance to enable him to get hold
of Melville and cling like a limpit till the goiv
saved him. Then he staggered to his seat and ordered
the towel to be-, abandoned.
(Continued on page 44J


BUILD UP YOUR STRENGTH
and IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH
It is natural for you to be healthy
—but you cannot retain your natural
healthy state unless you aid Nature
by keeping your system thoroughly
toned up.
In your daily habits there are cer-
tain groups of internal muscles which
you scarcely ever use. Nature intended
you to use them, or the\ r would not
be there.
Unless you DO use them they’ll
wither and become useless. They
then cannot perforin their natural
functions —you have a chronic feeling
of weariness and lack of energy and
ambition.
Imagine how much better for you
it is to have your weak spots strength-
ened, especially when you can so
easily and nleasantlv do it bv means
of my HEALTH EX ERClSES'which I
TEACH BY POST.
READ THE CONVINCING PROOF
GIVEN IN THIS LETTER:—
“I have improved wonderfully in
health and spirits since starting
your Course. I have gained nearly
half a stone in weight, and I feel
better than ever.—T.J.ll., Cairns,
Queensland.”
I've just added a number of new
exercises to my Courses —exercises
which were discussed and demon-
strated during my conferences early
this year with MAX MULLER, the
celebrated Danish Physical Culturist;
with the great EUGENE SAXDOW,
and with BERNAR McEADDEX, the leading American exponent of Physical Culture.
These new exercises are the latest and best work of modern progressive specialists in develop-
ment of body, and ridding it of the ills brought about by .neglect. They’ve been thoroughly tested
in Europe and America, and are getting wonderful results. Why not share in these benefits also?
You ought to write for further information and fees, and for my POSTAL COURSE OF
HEALTH EXERCISES. A 48-page interesting booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE," will be sent you. Write now, sending three penny stamps for postage.
n
ñ
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
362 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
THESE ARE MY
CIGARILLOS,
the little cigars, I want you
to try. They are made in
ONE quality, but in three
sizes. Their flavor,
quality and aroma
are the same as
you get in shilling
Havanas. Send for
a trial lot.
ń
ņ
MM
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
I. 2. 3.
2 - 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
19 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
9/- 8/- 7/-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States 80.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 us t rated
Catalog—
Post Free.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A M. SOLOHON,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Automobile Club of
Australia’s
Half=Gallon Petrol
Consumption Test
held on Saturday, 25 7/’l4.
First FOUR Places
.. . Secured on ...
Shell Benzine
oto-
cles
SCO
hend:
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog* D.
THE SHOES YOU DESIRE
ARE RIGNEY
The comfort you want, the fit you like, the
style you prefer, are all yours in III(INKY
SHOES.
They are quality shoes, and are made in
all styles and sizes.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched Welts, Perfor-
ated Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
Price 22/6 and 25/-
IN BLACK or TAN.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog,
ň
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTOS
* PARROT
BRAND ••
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
i ' S "■'*" ■ t - t - is
mmm i«s mi
'■'-', 'v- / N V yr* ' , ' &&&*■' * ••;
'-', - ?
■
'X,/M
r*
*V*~
Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
“The Stockmar n
Riding Boot
P
Ist!
m\\\i
w
m&mmm
mi
m
imi
.
m
m
■-M
ill
m
vS;3
m
Miili
mm
mm
wwwmrmk
a ,» /
% mt
m
M i
;,!\r i t
Cl
X
2\
m
T / II !
w:
■ ■
at)
- Hi
hr
VisS***'
xc
■ 2
Ss*\S
~*Se:
1416
I
Dust and- Waterproof; light,-
_coTtifortahle,_ servieeaWe~easy-
off, the "Stock-
mah Altta
Ltralian horseman should be with-
out. ""Obtainable in. aJL sizes.
a*
‘■and
i frstm 3
jtvill reach you
udrante£ Satisfadio
return
Oneoliu Stuart & Co
244-254
FlindersStreet,Mel
v)im HawW*


Cod Liver oil
may mean anything
FCOTT’S Emulsion
means only the superfine grade
of the world’s finest cod liver
oil made pleasing to the
taste and three times as power-
ful as in the raw state.
It is not quantity, but quality
that counts. One small bottle
of SCOTT’S Emulsion is well
worth a dozen bottles of any
preparation of inferior oil.
Give SCOTT’S to the weakly
child, to the pursing mother,
to those who require a builder
up and to all \yho suffer from
coughs, colds, bronchitis or
throat troubles. But, be sure
it is genuine
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
with the fishman on the package.
ŉ
m
a
1914
TRADE
MARK
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
' address, “Trawets.” *
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
LACTOBACILLINE
Tablets .and Powder.
Prepared under the authority and scientific control
of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
Lactobacilline combats and arrests the development
of pathogenic and putrefactive germs 'in the intestinal
canal. By this action Lactobacilline not alone exerts
a powerful influence in the restoration to and main-
tenance of perfect general health, but is specially
indicated in
AFFECTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE TRACT.
Gastro-euteritis, mueo-membranous entero-colitis,
constipation, intestinal tuberculosis, typhoid fever,
influenza, appendicitis and intestinal catarrh.
IN CASES OF AUTOINTOXICATIONS —cirrhosis
of , the liver, chronic nephritis, arterio-sclerosis,
chlorosis, anamiia, dvspepsia, etc.
IN ALL CASES DUE TO ABNORMAL INTESTINAL
FERMENTATION; IN ALL CASES DEPENDENT ON
DISTURBANCES OF SECRETION of bile and pan-
creatic juice (gallstone, pancreatic diabetes).
In diabetes Lactobacilline, by virtue of the fer-
mentation which it sets up in the alimentary sugars,
diminishes the glycosuria.
The tablets are put up in glass cylinders, and are
packed in boxes, each containing eight cylinders;
price,*s/6 per box. The powder in boxes containing
10 _ cylinders; price 1/- per cylinder. The tablets
and powder are the only preparations recommended
and used by Professor Metchnikoff. Each cylinder
and box bears the words “Le Ferment Seul Four-
nisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,” without which
none are genuine.
Lactobacilline can be ordered through any chemist.
Full particulars can be obtained from (ho- Societe 1c
Ferment, Australasia Chambers, 400-14 Queen Street.
Brisbane; or Branches: Vickery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen Street,
Melbourne; Ellershaw’s Buildings, Cliff Street, Fre-
mantle : Smeeton’s Buildings, Queen Street, Auck-
land.*
rjpilK Best Stories written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
I 1 rice Gd.
mam Established 1847. mb
Allcock’s
Plasters
Eagle Mark.
The Worlds Greatest
External Remedy.
-5T
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs
Allcock's Plasters act as a preventive
as well as a curative.
Prevent colds becoming deep seated
&
Rheumatism in Shoulder
Relieved by using Allcock’s Plasters
Athletes use them for
Stiffness or Soreness of muscles.
Allcock's is the original and genuine porous piaster*
It is a standard remedy, sold by chemists in every part
of the civilized world. Apply wherever there is Pain.
When you need a Pill
TAKE A Brandretfts Pill
Purely Vegetable .
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, Etc.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK manufacturing Co., Birkenhead.
ŋ
SEA-SICK
REMEDY
has received the unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world’s greatest men, women, and
institutions.
Docs not contain Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral or any of the
Coa tar prolucts.
No Bad After EfFeots>
MOTHIRSILL REMEDY Co., Ltd., IPitt Street, Sydflejr.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MON E V RETURN ED
n
ñ
ń
ņ
Taste It!
Since 1837,clever housewives
have prized the wonderful
flavor of BIRD’S Custard*
A trial is simply a revelation—no Custard
so delicious, so pure, or so wholesome.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly,
POST FREE.—A V At. t ! afilk RkCii’k I?ook sent, on receipt of address, by
\V. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
1
I
a
bird's
m
COSTARD
i
m
m
sssg
V5-K
<s-i<
S£r
Sold in Pkts., Boxes,
and new LARGE Tins.
r t6q S. W.
K',
MJjtr
Note Your Notes with an ONOTO
ň
Take an Onoto Pen with you wherever you may be stationed.
It will save you time and trouble and will make writing under any con-
ditions possible and easy. It is the pen that fills itself and cannot leak.
Price from all stationers, jewellers, etc., 12/- and upwards.
British made and guaranteed by its makers.
• Ask for the Special Service Model “0,” made to fit the Uniform pocket.
Onoto
Self- Filling; - -
Safety Fountain | |
Also ask for Onoto Ink—
- the best for all pens.
Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1906.. £2616 12 p.c. = £l5OO £lll6 £18,463
Dec., 1906.. 2314 8 „ „ 1000 1314 19.777
June, 1907.. 3301 12 ~ ~ 1500 1801 21.578
Dec., 1907.. 1994 8 „ „ 1000 994 22,572
June, 1908.. 1250 12 „ ~ 1500 22,328
Dec., 1908.. 2585 8 „ ~ 1000 1585 23,913
June, 1909.. 2170 12 „ ~ 1500 070 24,583
Dec., 1909.. 3214 10 „ „ 1250 1904 26,547
June, 1910. . 2589 10 „ ~ 1250 1339 27,886
Dec., 1910.. 2279 10 „ ~ 1250 1029 28,915
June, 1911.. 1832 10 „ „ 1250 582 29,497
Dec., 1911.. 1869 10 „ „ 1250 619 30,116
-June, 1912.. 2640 10 „ „ 1250 1396 31,512
Dec., 1912.. 5528 30 „ „ 3750 1778 33,290
June, 1913.. 3755 20 ~ „ 2500 1255 34,545
Dec., 1913.. 5518 20 „ „ 2500 3018 37,563
June, 1914.. 4890 20 ~ „ 2500 2390 39,953
Although the profits in the last line are well
above the average, they are shown only after
£533 has been deducted by way of a bonus
to staff. The paid capital is £25,000 out of
an authorised £500,000 and a subscribed
£125,000, so that present shareholders are
liable for another £lOO,OOO if anything
serious goes wrong. Reserves are now
£39,953, and that and the capital are placed
in this way :
Juno, 1904. June, 1914.
Liquid assets .. .. £16,057 £38,939
Other assets .. .. 22,170 29,097
Liabilities .. .. 58 Nil
Thus the whole of the capital and nearly
£14,000 besides is in liquid assets (public
securities and cash) and no less than
£22,882 has been added to this item in 10
years. Unfortunately the co. says very little
about itself, and no mention whatever is
made of the amount of trust estates in hand.
“Commissions, rents, interest on invest
ments, etc., after providing for contingen-
cies” have moved on from £5254 to £9002
since 1904, and though the income from
investments has materially increased,
commission (and consequently the estates
in hand) must also have moved along pretty
rapidly. As for the dividend, the funds need
only earn 4 p.c. to almost pay a 10 p.c. divi-
dend without any help from the other (com-
mission. etc.) earnings. As with all trustee
co.’s, there is, of course, the risk of misread-
ing a will and having to make good any loss,
but, the board of five includes three lawyers
of large tonnage—two of them K.C.’s —so
this risk is reduced very considerably.
* * * *
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.,
late the Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co,
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Pvoflts. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1906.. £2688 10 p.c. = £l5OO £llBB £3,429
June, 1907,. 1835 10 ~ „ 1500 335 3,764
Dec., 1907.. 1454 10 „ „ 1500 8,718
June, 1908.. 4018 30 „ „ 4500 3,236
»ec„ 1908.. 2957 10 „ „ 1500 1457 4,693
•Tune, 1909.. / ] ( ' » ■ \ 1 B°4
l £2912 dropped out of Reserves. / U O -*
Dee., 1999,. 1511 10 p.c. = 1500 11 1,835
June, 1910.. 8020 10 ~ „ 1500 6520 8,355
Dee., 1910.. 3505 10 „ „ 2250 1255 9,610
June, 1911.. 2558 10 ~ ~ 2250 308 9.918
Dee., 1911.. 2775 10 „ .. 2250 625 10.443
June, 1912.. 2658 10 „ ~ 2250 408 10,851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ „ 2250 1261 12,112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15,476
Dec., 1913.. 6429 10 „ ~ 3000 3429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 22,221
Apart from anything spent on plant at the
mine and the brickworks, the Co. during
the half-year made £25114 in excess of the
dividend. In the previous six months the
surplus was £2890. Hence, assuming that
enough has been spent on plant to counter-
balance depreciation, the profit was very
nearly double the 10 p.c. dividend. Whether
the expenditure on plant actually did
counterbalance depreciation this paper
doesn’t know. All it knows is that, over a
long run of years, wear and tear lias been
very liberally provided for; and the chances
are that the estimate given above is pretty
right. _ So far there doesn’t appear to be
anything attractive about the brickworks,
into which the co. lias lately dropped
£12,500 plus amounts written off. The
balance on working account of that branch
in the six months was only £215. and for
the year £535. Much depends, though, on
what the co. is charging itself for fuel.
Present capital (partly transferred from
reserves) is £60.000; and before paying the
current dividend the surplus of assets, exclu-
sive of freeholds and leaseholds and plant,
was. £25.230. The bulk of these non-fixed
assets are deposits and money owing by the
Litligow Coal Association, which markets
the output of this and other western (Lith-
gow) collieries and prevents that under-
cutting which until a few years ago made
them all poor properties.
* * * •
Tyrconnel (N.Q.) reports 235 tons of
stone crushed in a fortnight for 3820 z.. ex-
clusive of values yet to be recovered from
concentrates and tailinsrs. Speculators in
Sydney cannot have the remotest idea of
the value of gold produced on the Hodgkin-
son goldfield (N. 0.). so the secretary should
be invited to state the cheque the Tyrconnel
receives for its cake of smelted gold.' Assay
of a parcel of_Tyrconnel concentrates was
reported to he 54,0 z. gold, hut no silver was
mentioned. The official report speaks well
of the deepest level at 200 ft. vertical. It
says: “Reef at this level will average 10ft.
wide, all fair stone.”;. The level is close to
the ~-did workings. ' Above the 150 ft: the
slopes fall away in value as,; risen on. so the
Tyrconnel will soon have to prospect deeper
levels.
* * * *
At Charters Towers. Clarks’ mine lias
crushed 102 tons for 2400 z. of smelted gold,
exclusive of residues. A call of Id. per share
has been made. The directors appear
anxious to limit the amount drawn, from the
Government subsidy, which is, by the way.
repayable if the mine strikes payable gold.
The mine has approximately 1000 tons of
slone developed, and it intends to drive
400 ft. to connect with the old Lady Maria
workings. It is possible that calls' will he
required to complete the scheme of develop-
ment. The reef so far proved is only a few
inches thick, but is fairly rich. In other
mines, the most important development is
the new reef at the Bonnie Dundee. Driving
has proved the reef to be erratic, having a
tendency to split up into sections, but there
is occasionally 12in. of solid stone showing,
so the shoot may make good after more
development.


a
& r .’
11
mmm
m r
: m
■ S
11, Hi
SfY- &
.
<■
os
? </' k.>li
«aL‘:
• »V*
y.
<csv> JilSi
■ Pf€i
mui
r</
. VI
i oho
ex
>w.
,l
■*
■ a
*\jS
¥
ZX l
je*™>y>
. a Wimm Jm
YjS
m
Qi
•j - i|
sfe
5
%
O
€S*
mm
...
h
sr
y*
O
-,/
\*VO
P*
C*
<A
<K
*>k
r>
'/ <
E?
r
c4n
iss
/Ti\
y>
...
n
tm
H
>
PURE AUSTRALIAN
STANDARD
BRANDY
CHEER UP!
Britain’s bound to win ! With Australia’s help, the
British Empire will live until languages are dead
and lips are dust.
Join the “cheer-up club” and drink
(hdTE4(IT4NUNDA
★ * * BRANDY
"since eighty-nine
k PROM PURE GRAPE WINEjj


Useful and Artistic
Presents
Substantially Reduced at
FLAVELLE’S
Great Jewellery Sale
This, is a splendid"opportunity to buy Artistic-
Jewellery of intrinsic worth at. a event savin*,.
ITavolie'.s have always been noted f.hr their fair
dealing, hut now the opportunity to purchase is
unique, since every article shows a rcduetion of
:JO% off marked prices.
You can expect great (bines at Ibis Jewellery
Sale. If ,von cannot visit, ns personally, mail
your order. We park all goods carefully and
guarantee satisfaction.
ŉ
Handsome Sterling Silver Photo Frame,
quite plain, with raised edge (as illustrated),
t'siialjy £2/3/- Sale Price £l/10/0.
Dainty, Plain, Solid Silver Photo Frame,
circular, large size. I sually 18/-. Xow 12/!).
Small size. Tsiially 31/- JfotV 7/0.
Neat Size, Oval Photo Frame, plain and
solid Oak hack. I'sual Price 13/0. Sale
Price 0/0.
Handsomely Kmbossed Sterling Silver Photo
Frame, cabinet size, Finn Oak Hack. I suall
k 2. Sale Price £l/8/-
T-iirge Panel Side, Solid Silver Photo
Frame, Adams Design, with Umpire edge,
i sual Price £2/5/- Sale Price £l/11/0.
mm
THE LATEST
NOVELTY.
Solid Silver-
mounted Ink-
well, with Aus-
tralian National
wildfljower—the
Wattle—enam-
elled in natural
coloring on white
Enamel back
"round (as illus-
tration). Usual
Price £2/2/0.
Sale Price
£l/0/0.
Sterling Silver Mutch Slide, with Knam-
clled Flannel Flower. An ideal souvenir gift,
I'sual Price .-4:2/10/-. Sale Price £l/15/-
Anothor Dainiv Idea. —Sterling Silver Vailitv
Box, with design of Waratah <in true colors.
I'sual Price -21/t). Sale Price 19/-
Haildsoilie Case, containing st-g Half-dozen
Blouse Buttons and i Large Hatpin's—design of
Wattle, Flannel Flower or Waratah, a distinct
novel tv. Vsnal Price e.v 5/-. Stile Price
£3/13/6.
(f
Ji
22
■ v
Newest Design. Solid Silver Sweet Dish,
quite plain and artistic. I stijrl Price £2.
Sale Price £l/8/;-
Xeat size, sterling Silver Pill Tray, open-
work e<ls*e. i s\i;ii Price £l/2/0. &ale Price
13/9. |
Solid Silver Jewel Casket, quite plain,
handsomely lined with rich-colored satin.
Usual Price 35/- Sale Price 24/9.
Flavelle, Roberts 8
Sankey, Ltd.,
150 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
A
AIR RIFLES
If you have not handled these Air Rifles you can
nave no idea of their potentialities for sport, recreation
or instruction. Used by thousands of Rifle Clubs in
England and colonies, and particularly suitable for
schools, cadets, boy scouts, rifle dubs, etc.
In construction and accuracy the B.S.A Air Rifle is
equal to the best nuatch rifles and it will last a lifetime.
Very deadly at rabbits, birds, etc., up to 50 yards
and altogether an ideal weapon for range, garden
or indoor practice. Fires 100 shots for 3d.
Prices from 05/-. Write for special Air
Rifle Handbook. Post free from
D. Y, RENNIE
Representing R.'LA. Co. Ltd.
Aust. Bldgs., Melh.
For
woo
The Meal Paint
for Indoor or
Outdoor Work.
Withstands the ravages of Climate.
RIPOLIN
PAINT
RIPOLIN. Ltd., 35. Minories. London. England
Agents :
I>. A. COR MACK.
Morn-foot Buildings,
5 Parker Street,
SYDNEY,
i if- i
' n
1
TONE
2 METAL S
OU»««i)OOU
,V lfw| : :
CEMENT
ETC
■ n
Patented self adjusting feature
Friction ofFoot Eazer lop plate aon under spring
No More
Aching Feet!
All Foot
Troubles Ended!
For tired or aching feet, or for anyone constantly walking or
standing. Dr. SCHOLL’S FOOT-EAZER has no equal.
This appliance is worn in the boot or shoe, entirely free from notice, and may
easily be transferred from one pair to another. It is light and comfortable to
wear, positively easing the feat, body and nerves. It is also self-adjusting,
and gives just the right support at just the right spot. >
In all sizes Jot men and women.
Stocked by all leading Boot Dealers
If you have any difficulty in procuring these goods, write direct to the Agents.
'"•Treatment and Care of the Feet" Booklet sent Free.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
80 Clarence Street, Sydney
Sole Agents In N.S.W. «
FARLEIGH. NETTHEIM & CO.,
110 Edward Street, Brisbane,
Sole Agents in Queensland
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & CO. Ptr. Ltd.,
382-4 Lonsdale Street. Melbourne.
Sole Agents in Victoria tr
B. ROSENSTAMM,
61-65 King Street, Perth
Sole Agent* in W.A
W. 4 G. GENDERS,
Cameron St., Launceston,
57 Liverpool St„ Hobart.
Sole Agent* in Ta*mani»
• MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & FARQUHAR, Dowling Street. Dunedin. N.Z.
Sole Agent* in New Zealand ■
ARE YOU DEAF?
c L)anjhill
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
deaf people to hear.
liv simply wearing a Danjhill Earphone a deaf person can sir in a room and hear
all the conversation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions without
losing anv of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can he used in a Public Hall. Theatre or Church.
For years past Jordans Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eye
troubles of the public.
jf your eves fail you naturally take to spectacles.
AVliy not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will he perfect.
SOLE AGaNTS;
JERDAN’S LTD.,
My Opticians, 393 George Street, City.
OH THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred ot' ’‘Hop’s” best drawings. Full
nuu.im.N size. PHte. 21s.
“Ma'setto”: The recent start of the Aus-
tralian Opera League recalls other efforts
on the part ot resident composers.
Luscombe Searelle (M.L.) scored a l>ril-
liant success Avith liis "Estrella”, at the
Princess (Melb.) in 3 88-1. In this case
Williamson. Earner and Musgrove’s eo.
dealt with tin; parts; and. as Nellie Stewart,
Ida Osborne, l'anny Liddiard, l’atlie linnvii.
EdAvin Kelly, Woodlield, Phil Day and Wal-
lace were the perpetrators, with W. 11.
Harrison as conductor, no more need be
said. The opera had a short initial Hy in
Sydney ; the Melbourne season went for six
weeks. In 1885, at the Bijou. Searelle put
on his second work, “Uobadil”; and with
John Eorde. Chas. Harding, Geo. Leopold,
Oily I leering, (iracie Plaisted. Ella Fenton
and Pdanclie Leopold to help, it paid in lull
for four weeks, and did about double that
time in Sydney. Then (this time his own
librettist) lie gave “Isidore,” which, handled
by Francis Seville, Graeie Plaisted. Lester,
Wentworth, Harding (who had a showy
part), Leopold. Kelly and Deeriiig. with the
composer as conductor, ■ went well for I t
nights. The next aspirant was Governor
W’illiam Robinson. avlio had strung together
a piece called “Predators.” The late Samuel
I lore did most of the orchestration, ’tis said.
It was produced in W.A.. but Melbourne
Princess's saw a matinee and three nights
of it. Robinson, who had written a few
popular songs, was lucky in haling the W.
and M. Co. to sing the music. The bulk of
it was done by Wallace I’rownlow. Syd
Deane, Lauri, .los. Tapley, Nellie Stewart.
Elsie Cameron and Florence Young., with
Caron directing. r riiis happened in 1804.
Later on, A. R. Moulton served up his
“Lelamine”; and lastly came Marshall
Hall’s “Stella,” a 40-minute show.
“S.S.”: Should Ave be truly grateful for
a magnificent artist in his line like Cinque-
valliV Consider the mischief he does. Before
seeing Paul I Avas content with many Peters
avlio tossed eggs and trifled Avith umbrellas
and top hats. Since seeing him the first,
time, some years ago, I have been filled Avith
angry impatience in the presence of all
other serious jugglers, and have desired in
my heart to Avitness their precipitate re-
moval from the stage and hasty disposal
in the dust-bin. We had the greatest, wire-
walker long ago at a Mnsgrovr pantomime.
Since seeing him throAV airy somersaults
in big boots, other wire-Avalkers have been
a great weariness. These men avlio reach
absolute technical perfection kill even them-
selves. and Cinquevalli no longer thrills old
admirers. Having Avitnessed the final possi-
bility the spirit of man is satisfied, and repe-
tition of perfection means anti-climax.
“Stargazer”: A Avoid in defence for
“Bunty Bulls the Strings.” Considered as
a classic comedy. “Bunty” is nothing much,
but, regarded as a simple evening’s amuse-
ment, it has excellent elements, and is more
deserving of respect; than "Mrs. W'iggs,”
Avith Avliicli it has been compared in an
unfavorable spirit. "Mrs. W'iggs,” like
"Bunty,” OAves everything to character act-
ing. but where the striking figures in the
American effort were deliberate grotesques,
those in "Bunty” are close to truth. Why
this objection to the period in which “Bunty”
is placedV Is such objection criticism or
mere cavilling? I imagine the author has
used the time and the place because both
were familiar to his youth, the days of the
stowing and storing of impressions to Avliicli
the artist is to give subsequent, expression.
W’hat. matters it if Utility's lover is a lout?
It is not the province of the critic to object
to louts unless they are badly-drawn louts,
and Utility's lover is a Avell-draAvn lout, an
intentional lout, a delicious “Scawteh” yob.
full of pawky humor. Bunty, too. may not
lie a Avholly-desiruble damsel to have about
the house, hut she is close up to hard fact,
and I am-grateful for DO per cent, of the
bonny wee lassie, while thanking Heaven I
haven’t to live Avith her. I can’t enthuse
over the “Bunty” play as a coherent whole,
but 1 can object to the insistent use of the
epithet “melodrama” as the last Avord in
critical abuse. A situation is not melo-
dramatic because something like it has
appeared in melodrama. It is melodramatic
because of the key in AVtiich it is pitched, and
I think the author has avoided the melo-
dramatic key very successfully.
“Veteran Playgoer” soliloquises: "Camille”
amt "East Lynne" are dragging out an exist-
ence in moving pictures hoav. .Someone
calls them Chestnuts of the stage. I would
rather call them Bananas —from my first
experience of that fruit, long ago, when it
Avas unknown. Our ship stopped at an
island where bananas groAV. The purser
laid in a big stock of the novelty. But
the passengers had all been eating them on
shore, and most had bunches in their
cabins. Also, though a generation, brought
u]i on them from infancy may find
it hard to realise the fact, the banana
is an acquired taste. Tt was several
years before I could manage more than half
one at a sitting. Anyway, the dishes of
fruit languished on the tables. Their ends
went broAvn and Avere cut off. Then the
whole skin went broAvn. and they appeared
for a day or two without any. Then they
disappeared finally: but for two evenings
the bill of fare included Banana Fritters.
“Camille,” as seen per film, may be said to
be in the Fritter stage.
NOT THE TYPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mummer was indubitably good
in many “lines,” and yet Was out oi work;
For weeks he'd almost daily interviewed
The managers, and “rest” began to irk.
He saw inferior pros.—dull dogs,, satts art—
Snapped up. lie, with the best experience ri. e,':
Was turned down always, missing every part
because lie didn’t look, dr seem, “rhe type.”
The silly parrot-cry got on his nerves :
And when at last a manager one day
Made him an offer: “Sir, this, part deserves
The best, most skilful treatment in the play !
A bluff man, son of a sailor, sir, is he —■
“Ah'obstacle,” then, said the pro.. “1 spy;
My father was an actor. So, you see,
I'm not the typo you want. Good sir,, good -by o !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


. I]/
7A
) /■"
PS
m
mm
m
m
ŋ
n
• ’ - " ...... j;
Cooling Breezes Anywhere, Any Time, with
ñ
ń
ņ
Before the ages of Electricity people wished for cooling breezesy—and waited.
No longer need they wait for the restful comfort that cooling* breezes bring on
sultry summer days and nights. •, y,
G.E. Fans are all equipped with three-speed switches, making available any
breeze from a gentle zephyr to a hard blow.
These fans can be attached to any lamp socket, and are furnished for use on wall,
ceiling and table in all standard voltages and sizes.
& , O • ' ■
\
Place your order now before the summer rush starts.
ň
31/r Cl arence Street - Sydney.,
vCor. Queen e) JLittle Collins Sts-MelbourmeJ
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co.i (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
Edward Street.
—Agents—
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
YOUR BEST
Positively the quickest money=maker on earth to=day is a
816 CHIEF Oil Engl
S 3
m
For quality and absolute reliability this Engine stands alone, and the
price is so low and the terms so very liberal that anyone requiring
motive power cannot afford to be without one. The “Big-Chief
is made along the latest scientific lines —is hopper cooled, and fitted
with extended crank shaft, regular pulley and Wizard magneto;
accessories include —oil can, spanners and grease. Lowest prices in
N.S.W., Extremely liberal terms. All particulars from
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO. LTD
161 Clarence / Street, Sydney, “Where the Best Engines are Sold.”


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with wireless xeiegrapny.
PASSENGER ACCOM MOP ATI OX AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 13b., £ln 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills (c Co:,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Bunking, JMililie Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
It. A. WARDEN (President), W. 11. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Rank, where it will earn INTEREST
at Si% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
Bv order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
the:
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £70.0,,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000,
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. U6'BEUT piflLß, M.L.A.; Hon. A. 4.
' THYNNE, M.L.C.
Generai, 4. MACKENZIE LEES-
Hoad Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
IVlolbonrne Office: 4J Queen Street.
Office? 4 Queen Victoria. St,, E.C,
Branches thro.ugho.nt QUr.ENSr.ANI3 a,n,d in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALT, USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
LIMITED.
(Registered 1009, under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ~ ~£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED .. ~ ~£1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914)., ~ £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND .. ~ .. £45,000
HEAD OUriCH—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street,
DIRECTORS —Sir Wii.mam P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; Gborgk J. Si.y, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yariyood, Esq. ; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales A Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . , . . . . 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C.
Generic Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East
fhe Colonial Mutual jjife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
19 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ilc
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
a veiling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South IVai.es:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
tie Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
ie Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretan
Shipping;.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
fIOANA leaves Wellington Sept. 17.
Connecting Steamer Leaves Sydney, Sept. 11.
leaves Sydney Oct. 10.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The -Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
lIARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
t(k> include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
tjK&nce to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillunibah,
to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
tffyre connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
ifhie liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
j. .ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d.; second-class rail and steerage
ofti steamer, £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
WHITE STAR LINE
Only One Class of Accommodation*
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ŉ
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine-
Signalling Gear.
SUEVIC. 12,500 tons,
about OCTOBER 17.
Farts—Capetown or Durban, £15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . • • 25 5 0
Melbourne . . . • • • • • 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDXKY
RRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY ,
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 5.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 9.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 12.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 10.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 19.
For
MKJ.UOURNK
; (Ti'nnshipping for I ,
S.A. and W.A. ports). I
south.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 5.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 12.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
m
i
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR f PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street. Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Established
1817.
DIUHCTUUS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
The Hon. Sir Charles I\. MacKellar, Kt.,
President.
Thomas 1 inch land, Rsq,
Richard liiimie, Ksq.
The Hon. Sir Normantl MaeLauiin, lit., M.L.C.
The lion. Janies T. Walker
The Hon. Kihnuntl W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The*lion. Keginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUOTTOUS: Alfred-.. George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
H«ad Office-Qeorgo St., flydney. London office 29 Threadncefle St., EC.
3:40, Branches and Agencies in'the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World. . .
Cable- remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIKECI. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of “Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE TITHOUGITOUT
THE WORLf). % J. BUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking'Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,730,000 0 0
lteserve Capital . . . . 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Gkorok J. Cohf.n. Esq Chairman.
Ilqn. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
ITon. 11. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onsi.ow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Siiei.lkv, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massif.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq,
Manager: F. A. Seriyencn
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up ~ .• • ■ •• •• 500,000
Uncalled Capital . • • • • • 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Ranking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OF: ICE: BRISBANE,
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. li. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin’ Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS E>E LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
SONOMA .. .. | Sept. 26 | Nov. 21 | Jan. 16 I Mar. 13
VENTURA ' .. j Oct. 24 j Dec. 19 j Feb. 13 | April 10
The S|ii Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February- December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Lino.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
nfln
&»= 6
Ualll
1
P
What womsn
say about the
DALLI.
The Schoolmistress says:
“The DALLI is as
simple as A.8.C.”
THeDalli
is the best Box Iron
for household use.
Of all Storekeepers, stocked by :
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Sydney.
F. La ssetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Grace Brothers, Sydney.
Beware of worthless imitations.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED),.
EXPRESS PASSENGER. SERVICE to, and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and, Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
Anri GULF PORTS
ALBANV
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping 'at Fmnantlo
to all North-Wpstrrn Ports.
T.S.&. WANimUM
tons.); fitted Wiirete-H
Telegraphv, Saturday*
Sent. 2ti and Oft. -.4,
(Oafrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steeratre Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINOKA, Sept. 5.
MARI.OO, Sept. 1-.
WOIjLOWUA, Sept. 19.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO.. LTQ,,
Agents, 6 BRIOGK STRKFT. SYDNKY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA)
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M /.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Hallway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND)
SAILINGS :
•Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins tie luxe, en
suite. Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry. Klectric
Lift.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
| may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.,
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION SIT AM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“ Zealandia,”
“Dlimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
"Westralia,”
“Wimmera,”
“Victoria ”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST;
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Sen/sees
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” .10,000 toils'.
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tans.
l!s.S. 4i KYARRA” ... 7000 tons;
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tores
T.S.S. “WYREEMA” ... 6500 tores
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tores
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy..
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and! also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel
| )V the A.U.S.N. Line, as. this CDBflipan.y’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of call, First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy.’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade.; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
8
"W.jwr*
ŋ
Drink
Horlick’s Malted
Milk and you know
that you are buying purity
plus strength. Recommended
by Doctors.
HORLICK3
MALTED MILK j
Sample will be sent on reoeipt of
2d. in stamps to Hutchinson S
h Co., 26, Jamieson St.,
Sydney, N.S.W


Hotels, &c.
SS§ ...
■
Plfgiii
InSViji i£l
[v?
r'EORGE HOTEL,
St* Hilda, Melbourne.
largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/* per* day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
1
Ik x 7
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver ami Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Bla c k, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 I'he Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession,
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants.
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS & CO. Ltd., Wharf St., Brisbane, q.
n
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
T
HE Best Stories written by Australian
Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. Gd. monthly.
Commonwealth
ñ
Bank "Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for 3.11
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances inade to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign b’lls negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any part or the world. Bills negotiated or forward ed for collection. Banking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
C urrent accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest.at <j o /
per annum w/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KEEL, Deputy Governor. DENIS (X MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, liberal Land Daws.
Witl'f' her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-;
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to: the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TItOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney. N.S.W. A. MES%ON, Eocal Director.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALE, LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, JIKLBO.UWNIcf"VIG
68£ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all parts of the worife.
:*2iss£2
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Pood)
“ prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, "Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world. j
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, U. S. A.
ń
THE RAZOR
THAT PLEASES.
That’s the razor you want, and that’s why
you should register your vote for
THE “PLUM” RAZOR—IO,6.
Every shave is satisfactory when you use a
“Plum” Razor. The blade of a “Plum” glides'
over the face as smoothly as possible, and
cuts clean and clear without the slightest
inconvenience. Owing to the excellence of
its manufacture the blade of a “Plum” is
always keen, and keeps its edge indefinitely.'
Try one yourself—send for a “Plum” to-day.
PRICE 10/6 —post free.
WE keep it in perfect order for two years
free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent
set 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splen-
did quality 15/6
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome
present 30/-
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &t AITKEN
G 54 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
~ ' ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ņ
Shoes
That Last
Longer
-—shoes made not only for appear-
ance, but for comfort, longer wear,.,
and all-round rightness are r
ABBEY SHOES.
The illustration depicts our VERY
LATEST MODEL, in a Choice,
All-Patent Derby Bal 32. 6
Also in Highest-Grade Tan Willow
Calf 33 ' 6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St..
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
7
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED -EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AttABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis" Egyptian Henna has the largest sale ol
any Hair Stain" on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-ui. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/'- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australis-
Electrical Accessories—Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS for Dorman 8 Smith Ltd.; Nalder Bros. 8 Thompson Ltd.; Igranic Electric Co. Ltd.
D.SS. Handle Type Fuse
Mounted of unmounted, 50
to 3000 amps, for 600-volt
circuits. Also in Ifonclad
and Watertight Boxes.
AH kinds of Switchboard, Electrical
Indicating and Recording Instruments,
Insulation Testing Sets, Automatic
Accumulator Switches.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
ADAMS’ IGRANIC
i-.
; -i
Leaflet No. 20S. Fig. 3.
STARTING RHEOSTAT, with Worm
Slow-Speed Gear and with Cover removed,
showing Worm Gear.
Sole Australian Representatives;
HAES & EGGERS LTD., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney.


%
mm
//
N5T
rv.' 1 '''
est
ir i!)
free
'SPRIMG
Ahb
sunnEß
BOOK
| If you are
'ax. our
Mailing Ibf
a copy cjiN
corwe to you
I If you are
i\of or\ our
jlist urile
lor tKb
,25b pa fe
1 book.
FINNEY’S,
The Big Block, Brisbane.
IN
BANANA LAND
“Barcoo” : The biggest shed I ever heard
of in Queensland was out on “The Speewah.”
where the notorious “Crooked Mick” wak the
ringer. He often shore 150 . sandy-backed
wethers in a couple of “runs” —and never had
to call for tar. Nobody knew liow many
shearers were employed, because, when they
got the sack at one end of the board they
generally got put on at the other end. But
they lost a day getting there.
“Rangan” : Now that the war has provided
a common ground for the burying of party
differences in State politics, it is interesting
to note the terms of endearment used between
members in the Bananaland Legislature:—
Mr. Lennon: It had been asserted by the mealy-
mouthed member for Port Curtis —-—
Mr. Kessel (member for Port Curtis) : I spoke the
truth, you snuffling old humbug.
Mr. Lennon : I completely ignore the remarks of
that person.
The bird of Peace hasn’t a feather to fly with
these days.
“Norbell” : I read this in the M.L. Herald
of Bth August: —
Twenty-four monkeys were eaten at the Brisbane
Zoo by a crocodile, which escaped from its tank.
That item is thrilling enough, but the scribe
who perpetrated it should have said more,
lie should have told about the savage platy-
pus which escaped from the Royal Crema-
torium at Humoybong, and devoured three
stockbrokers, one sanitary inspector, and 2£
unregistered bookmakers. He should have
mentioned that the ferocious ornithorhynchus
climbed a lofty asparagus fern and bit a
large piece out of an astronomer and severely
pulled the leg of a sub-editor. The captious
critic may object that there is no Royal
Crematorium at Humpybong, to which I
triumphantly retort that there is no zoo in
Brisbane, or anywhere else in Queensland.
Where?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The whereabouts of William of Wieif is apparently
an insoluble problem. —Press item.
The Prussian is out on the raid,
The Belgian, with fire in his eye,
Hath brandished his keen battle-blade
And sworn he will conquer or die.
Like birds in the pure summer sky
The scouts of the air gather speed
And scatter grim death as they fly—
But where is Prince William of Wied?
The chargers of Gallia have neighed
Defiance —and far you espy
Her legions in splendor arrayed,
Her chariots in thunder that ply;
To eastward in ravage draws nigh '
The son of the steppes on his steed,
Ilis pardon no ransom can buy—
But where is Prince William of Wied?
The Servians in fury are swayed—
The blood on their fields never dry—
The poor in a mortar are brayed,
They perish, and hardly know why;
Their sob and their pitiful cry
Rise un—but the gods never heed ;
Perchance they are wond’ring, on high v
Now, where is Prince William of Wied?
Envoy.
Immortals who guide us and try
The dross of our .poor human breed,
In mercy this problem untie
Where is Prince William of Wied?
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 20, 1914.
My Dear Tiiaugomindati,—
/The war—but, stay, let me keep out of
tllat puddle. The perambulating British
Science Congress has been with us this
week, quartered in Society’s friendly spare
beds. On Friday morning, after all hands
had been piped" to breakfast,-the big guns
were unlimbered and the hosts of Cosmic
Influences blown up. If it wasn’t Cosmic
Influences it was something like that
some one of the old brigade in the everlast-
ing fight between Science. and Ignorance.
In the afternoon the guns were spiked and
towed off by the whiskers to a Mayoral
reception at Bowen Park, most of which
was hidden under a varied assortment of
flags. The German flag was not visible,
and the banner of old Panama was hull
down on "the horizon. Mayor Jenkinson
and his better-clothed half (he was arrayed
in rabbit-fur and a chain) shook the entire
collection c -jof scientific paw and indicated
where refreshments are usually kept. I
hasten to add, dear Thargomindah, that in
this case the refreshments were tea and
doughnuts. There might have - been some-
thing more invigorating, but, if so, I didn’t
trace its little footsteps through the snow,
so to speak.
THE RISING GENERATION.
CHEEKY SMALL BOY (to stout old lady who is hauling- herself into the tram with diffi-
culty): "If they'd given yer more yeast, Missus, when yer was young you’d
a-bin able to rise better. "
STOUT OLD LADY: “ An' if they'd a-given you more yeast, my boy, you'd a-been
better bred."
The Arthur Morgans and their handsome
daughter Alice were at the picnic, and
spenr most of the afternoon with the pro-
found Oliver Lodge, Mrs. O. Lodge and her
daughter. The finally-mentioned wore,
above her shoes, a smartly-tailored suit of
cream, and a little black hat with pink
roses. Her mother bore up under a green
frock and a coalscuttle hat. I am bound
to say that the scientific woman, or the
scientist’s woman, does not, as a rule,
gladden the eye from a rag-display point
of view. Most of the garments that
enveloped the lady members of this cele-
brated party were out on sack lines, or
perhaps I should say on lines that deserved
the sack.
On Tuesday the Thespians’ matinee for
the Patriotic Fund happened. In the
morning all available Thespians sold badges
or dinned the clattering collecting box in
the ppbic ear. Derek Hudson sang
the Marseillaise at street corners, while
'Celia Gliiloni cut off the non-paying
stranger with a smile, behind which lurked
a guillotine. Another Thespian, disguised
as a behr marching on to Berlin on the
Spree, struck terror into the juvenile heart
as well as an entire Hungarian street band.
The trombone . player was heading for a
neutral port up north when the last wire-
less came through.
Every theatrical show in Brisbane con-
tributed items to the afternoon programme,
and the combined takings hit the beam at
about £B5O.
On Friday the A.N.A. had a flag and
badge day, and the citizen who escaped the
vendors of the former fell an easy victim to
the hawkers of the latter. Thus does the
fund grow and be niighty before the Lord
of the Righteous Cause.
Odd chunks of the week have been filled
in with Patriotic concerts, Patriotic meet-
ings, 1 Fatriotie etc. The war-smell is in
the air, and the streets, if not exactly re-
echoing with the tramp of armed men, at
least are full of trim khaki-clad lads and
men.
The Red Cross Society is doing much
good work, and foremost among those who
are saying little and doing much is Mrs.
Bruche. At almost every first meeting of a
new branch she is there, busy fingers em-
ployed knitting a foot or hand sock, show-
ing the recruits just what to do and how to
do it.
The Charity Ball, which was intended to
bulge the funds of the General Hospital
and the Mater Misericordise Public Hospital,
was prominent on Thursday night, but so far
as attendance is concerned, it Was not a
huge, nor even gigantic, success. more
tickets were sold than the “those present
list represented, but the total proceeds to
the good cause were not what they should
have been. They never are. Let me whisper
that 50 persons sat down to a supper that
had been intended to feed 500.
Arthur Benjaniin, a Brisbane boy who
has been studying the piano in London, has
been earning an approving word from the
qualified-to-speak of the Big Smoke. He
played at the orchestra concert, held in the
Queen’s Hall on July 10, in connection with
the Patron’s Fund of the R.C.M., and even
the most painstaking critic spoke encour-
agingly of his performance.
Mrs. Walter Markwell left Sydney by the
Ventura to-day. She is going to visit daugh-
ter Gladys, who is now Mrs. Drake, wife of
an alleged millionaire in Detroit, U.S.A.
A tidy, medium-sized wedding happened
on Wednesday, when Geoffrey Woolcock, son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. Woolcock, handed in a
receipt for Miss Florence Small, an ex-
tremely pretty and popular Rockhampton
girl. Miss Mabel Woolcock was the only
bridesmaid, and Fred Small deposited his
sister as goodwill. The bride is a grand-
daughter of the' late Captain Trouton, who
was so well known in Sydney, and has many
relatives in that locality.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Rangan”: The oldest editorial orb on
the Inky Way, within this scribe’s range of
vision, is Woolnough, of the Brisbane Tele-
graph. The other day a large number of
citizens met to congratulate him on his
80th birthday, and to present him with his
portrait in oils. Woolnough has spent 56
years as a journalist in Australia, the last
30 in Bananaland, and from present appear-
ances looks as if he is going a long way yet.
If it were not for the vile Northern climate
he might live to be an old man,
Winton hotel girls struck the other day
for higher wages against the . collective
Bungs of that sultry town. Two of the
latter “scabbed” on their brethren, and were
thus advertised in the Worker: “All genu-
ine unionists are staying at these two places
and a vast majority of the public are drink-
ing beer there also.” “Scabbing” is a highly
damnable or commendable business accord-
ing to the point of view.
With the purchase of the dredge Samson
by the N.S.W. Government a line historic
monument has left the Brisbane River. The
Samson was one of a pair purchased 12
years ago from Lindon Bates by the Philp
Ministry. Tested somewhere in the sands
of the Red Sea they gave magnificent
results; but on the hayd mud b.ottom of the
Brisbane the Samson proved a dead failure
and was laid up in hospital for a dozen
years. It was jocularly suggested once that
now that the Philp Government had bought
a dredge to mend the river the only thing
necessary was that it should buy up a river
to suit the dredge. The two dredges cost
.£90,000. Interesting to know what Holman
and co. gave for the Samson.
“Hamer”: White Australia is gradually
'coming into its dwn. A few years ago
the banana industry in Queensland _ was
almost entirely in the hands of the Chinese,
but, according to evidence given before the
Tariff Commission, the exile from China is
steadily drifting out of the industry and it
is falling into white hands. No explanation
is given, but it is one of those things that
don’t need an explanation as long as they
happen.
“Fish. Oh !” writes ,
Brisbane raised a great outcry the other day when
it heard of the destruction of a large quantity of
unsold fish. Such destruction is. almost a weekly
affair in Brisbane, and it was only the new defnand
for cons'erv tion of food stuffs that caused anybody to
.take any. notice of this particular destruction. On
inquiry, the Fish Board threw all the blame on the
sellers’ reserve; but there is another side to the
question./ Since the swarthy descendants of Themis-
tocles ousted the Australian from the control of the
fish trade the cost of fish has doubled. Yet the
fisherman has to battle to get a decent price from
Miltiadcs. To save extinction the catcher has to place
a reserve on all fish sent to the market, and even
then Epaminondas and Pelopidas do their best to get
under it. For years the Fishermen’s Union .has been
asking for inquiry and adjustment, but it is only
now, when up against popular feeling, that Barnes
has offered to take action. He proposes to increase
the Fish Board’s borrowing power from £5OOO to
£15,000 (to allow for additional cold storage), to
provide Government distributing depots, and thus break
the Corinthian monopoly, and he desires to give the
, fishermen representation on the Board. Incidentally,
lie promised the last reform some years ago, but the
Fish BoardV objection made him forget it. Come
to think of it —what is a Fish Board? This writer
has heard of a Tender Board, and a Board School,
and a School of Art, and a school of whales, and a
decayed fish, and a Board of Ceremonies. But a Fish
Board seems rather out of the running.
The latest consignment of Professor to be
imported by Maoriland is Dr. Gowland, who
comes from the University of Liverpool to
fill the late Dr. Scott’s place as Professor
of Anatomy at Dunedin (M.L.) University.
The new Professor is a comparatively young
man, being only 35 years of age, and has
a string of letters attached to his name that
looks like the tail of a comet and two ser-
pents pinned together.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” :
J. R. Love, who died last week, was the represen-
tative of a very old grocery firm of Sydney, which
grew from small beginnings in the late ’4o’s. In the
first ’so’s William Love came up from George-street
South to a position opposite the old Markets, where
he had on one side the Grafton Arms Inn, kept by
one John Chello.w,. and the other (the south) the
Bull’s Head, kept by an old identity in the pubbery
line, Mrs. Louisa Watkins. In the ’6o’s the grocery
firm became William Love and Son (William Love
and J. R. Love). In the early ’7o’s the retail trade
was given up and the bulk business established some
doors to the south. The original AVilliam Love was
a j.p.—one of the old style, of the time of Jerry
Moore, George Hill, Jimmy Oatley, Pinhey, Chapman
and so on. Those were the times when the J’s.P.
packed the Bench if a “good sort” wanted a pub-
b.ery license. One of the Love family, AVilliam, re-
presented AVest Sydney in the fourth Parliament
(1800-64).
“Sawmill Charlie” : The cabled news that
Poland is preparing a separate army _ for
the Russian campaign against Prussia is a
reminder that one of the best fighting men
Australasia has known was a Pole. Yon
Tempskey was not so much a soldier as a
fighter. Lonehanded or in company he fol-
lowed the Maoris with a resolute personal
courage which caused him to be regarded
as the Devil incarnate. The Maori liked the
bayonet no more than does any other breed;
of'men. He’d fight like blazes from a pro--
tected position, but after a few lessons in-
variably bolted when the gleaming, deadly-
steel came to light. Yon Tempskey’s men,,
the Forest Rangers, were strong on the-
bayonet, but lie himself rather despised it
for personal use. When the last round of
a scrap opened Yon Tempskey went to busi-
ness with a machete, a fearful inslrument
in the hands of an active and powerful man.
I hope the Poles will follow the example of'
their illustrious countryman and take it on.
It is not everybody that can claim to be -
the son of the founder of a religion, but
John Thorne, just dead in Adelaide, had that
distinction. His father, a Cornish fanner,
had the credit of starting the Bible ■
Christian” branch of Methodism, about
1815 The son, who has filled almost every-
post of honor open to a Wesleyan parson ini
South' Aus.. was long ago a schoolfellow or
Chief Justice Way.
By 11. G. Rutledge, Emmaville, N.S.W.:
It would seem there are not enough unemployed in
Sydney. Thomas, M.P. for Gough, has sent word to
here (Emmaville, N.S.AA r .) that he can get 50 men
work on the trams. Now, the only excuse to drag
men from where they can scratch up a few pounds of
tin until better times arrive would be that they
were starving. Instead of that, men who have accepted
Thomas’s invitation are comparatively well off. AVhy
not give those jobs to the Sydney unemployed, instead
of trying to increase the congestion?
The voice of the jealous and intolerant
oldster is heard on the battlefield, as in most
other places. When the French Colonel
Yillebois de Mareuil and other foreign officers
who were with him urged the old Boer
General Cronje to make a move that might
have enabled him to avoid Paardeburg and
the subsequent surrender to Kitchener, the
veteran objected obstinately, and remarked
testily to the Frenchman, “I was winning
battles when yon were a boy.” Then he sat
down hard in his dry river-bed, and General
French, now looking; after things in E ranee,
comnleted the flanking movement that finished
him.


lr•. •"
j m
■
® ,'V
i§!
Y'fSSV'- - &:■
buck Square
R ;Thorme 6 Sons Lwitf.d
D ‘ CIREEHOCJfc" DISTIUXiRT >v
Y* „, o \jß GtWUViE /w
i licfitesE. TowerHm. UNDOIifC
I Trade. .•V*2»*tw tstAaitSHto
I. .Mas */zJM . .1851 ,
d-A
SNWJtiUStt
i
-
M
■
-
■
•>*!
Eighty years’ ripe experience goes into producing the fine quality of
Thorne’s Whisky.
It is refreshing and stimulating and an indispensable first line of
defence ” against low spirits.
I he distinctive, mellow flavor of I home’s is proof of skilful blending
and represents Scotch Whisky at its best. T
Incomparable Old Highland Malt
u
mamm
iterate*##!
meammm
: Wm, m
:
BIS
£
. .
. . . .
c
tsaimmnm
(rmmrnm %*TS7im&


v Vj
AL.C
OW
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
'a, \x
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
Send to-day
2/6
SHARPS
AMIGO
f" PILES
WHY SUFFER ?
GET RELIEF.
“SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
An unfailing remedy
for Itching, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES.
IT PITRES GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
THE LADY OF FASHION
will be charmed and delighted
with the Refined Beauty of the
MOSQ I E L
TWIN-COLOR
MOTOR RU G
Made in colorings to match
the cars. Unique in appear-
ance and cosy warmth.
Sold at all the
Best Shops. [2
the. great remedy.
*UUt'S
k GOUT
<& RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Island 2s. fid.
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
F. H., Paulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
I
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
For ECZEWU, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole Whol-sale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
“told-PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots. 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic. —1/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. 6d. extra.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
f i
99
Ask for
swr-
“PERNIX;
and see that
you get it, with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Ag nt
and Drum.
can be obtained
LIMITED,
8 for Australia.
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
“SWAN SAFETY
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
a
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Catalogue free on request.
MAtflE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,
"s Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
SEPTEMBER SUCCESSES!
This list of records embodies masterpieces grave and gay but mostly gay-
You happy people who own a gramophone should be keenly interested in tnis
itest selection or
((
His Master’s Voice
Records.
_V Voice
04506
04565
4-2370
4-2427
02514
2-032008
023140
4-2428
052383
4-2300
03372
2-4186
03354
01103
4-2429
03373
01105
Also, a
Records.
LIGHT OPERA CO.
Qeras from “The Mikado,” Part 1.. ..
Gems from “The Mikado,” Part II
SENTIMENTAL SONGS.
I Hear a Thrush at Eve .. John McCormack
Offerings Hubert Eisdell
To Mary Ben Davies
LYRIC AND DRAMATIC .SONGS.
Hosanna (in French) Caruso
Pizzicati, “Sylvia Ballet” — . . .
Miss Lydia Lipkowskaya
Soldier, what of the Night? . . Robert Radford
Marechiare
Trish Names Reinald Werrenrath
The Way, the Life Miss Alice Lakin
HUMOROUS AND RAGTIME.
Every Little Movement .. Miss Barbour and
Mr. ' Werrenrath
My Boy Miss Florence Smithson
The Fallen Star Albert Chevalier
I Want to be in Dixie ;••••••
A Tango Dream Miss Grace La Hue
Developing a Photograph—
Geo. Graves and Will Evans
Selection of Instrumental Successes in single and double-sided
Obtainable from all accredited “His Master’s Voice” Dealers.
Complete Lists, Instrument Catalogue and name of nearest dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD., 163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET
of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
At JUNE 30, 1914.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits accrued, interest and £4 559>264 10
Bills payable and other liabilities.. 554,896 1
Savings Bank Department : .
Depositors’ balances (with in- „
terest accrued) • • • • 4,645,268 2
Capital—Debentures issued
Reserve fund. .
Redemption fund
Contingent liabilities, outstanding
credits per contra
£9,759,428 13 9
14,262 0 0
£9,773,690 13 9
ASSETS.
Investments: —-
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment securities (face value,
£9,773,690 13 9
DE.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
To amount from last account
Reserve fund
Redemption fund
.. £45,089 3 3
£45,089 3 3
n
We certify that the above balance-sheet, compiled from statements furnished by the several offices
+Vip Rank is true and correct.
of the rsan K) DENISON MILLER,
Governor.
Sydney, 17th August, 1914.
H. T. ARMITAGE.
D. B. MURDOCH.
t opnnrrlance with the provisions of Section 20 of the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1911, I have to
V'i.w ftJ Ae-Jreeate Balance-sheet of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for the half-year ended
V t i7tL Ae-ereeate Balance-sheet of the Commonwealth Rank of Australia ior tne nan-year enneu
the°3oth June, 1914, has been examined by officers actiig under my direction, as well as by myself. The
the 30tn June, x Qunt as above s " e t forth, have been verified with the books and vouchers, with the
SeVer ßies held by the Bank, and with statements certified by the respective Managers and Accountants of
the Bank.
T Viovp obtained all the information and explanations required by me. The said Balance-sheet has been
1 Tin the form prescribed bv the Regulations under the Act, and, in my opinion, it exhibits a
EKTvk o< tb. **» of tfo Bank. <«**> w. ISRAEL,
, Auditor-General for the Commonwealth.
21/8/’1.4. ___________________
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
ITonthly, 6d.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appeal on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
John J. H.: Exemptions from service are
defined by the Act of 1910 as follows: Members of
Parliament, Judges, magistrates, ministers of re-
ligion, constables, prison warders, lighthouse-keepers,
hospital doctors and nurses. Non-Europeans and
persons with conscientious objections tb bearing
arms are to be exempted from duties other than
those of a non-combatant nature. Persons who are
students at a theological college or theological
students may, while they remain so, be exempted
from training (in peace time), but afterwards must
make up their training. Any person who has been
convicted by a court of a disgraceful or infamous
crime or is of notoriously bad character is perma-
nently disqualified for service. He isn’t exactly ex-
empted. Rather he is thrown out... .H.A.H.:
Austria annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908....
Humbug: Yes; England declared war on the United
States on June 18, 1812. .. . J.M.H.: No, there’s no
truth in the rumor that a Yankee vaudeville co. has
offered the Kaiser an enormous salary to appear twice
nightly... .H. Leahy: Don’t remember it.... W.D.V.:
Right, we’ll have a word with him. .. . Araemo:
Ring up or write Professor David, Sydney University.
O.Z.: No; the impetus given to Australian
thought on the subject of national defence was not
directly nor indirectly given by you or Senator
Pearce. The impetus was given by a man whose name
would certainly be carved out if this paper wrote it,
and the natural good sense of the Australian followed
it. [Signed, in conformity with the stupidity of
the Electoral Act, by John Barr, 214 George street,
Sydney.]... .Leeton: We will not publish your mas-
sive essay upon Kaiser Bill, beginning “The ground-
work of the Kaiser’s character is due to Nature, but
the finished product owes much to a peculiar environ-
ment.” We are getting about six of these thoughtful
efforts by every mail. Anyone who possesses a stock
of old magazines can write of the Kaiser as though
he were a personal pal; and the owner of a few
geography and history books is in a position to talk
with equal familiarity of Berlin and Manly Beach.
Send along something convincing about the Kaiser or
his country that isn’t already as familiar to us as
tripe, and it will be received with salvos of joy from
the office battlements Wayback: Your argument
is hopeless. In fact, it is [foolishness. .. .S.C.E.:
(N.S.W.) : Evidently you require a written explana-
tion of every cartoon. We aije too busy to supply
such mental first-aid. If you tare so dull or so ill-
informed that you are unable to understand the
picture, don’t write offensively to the artist —who
isn’t responsible for your mental condition. Write to
your parents or your schoolmaster, or to yourself.
. ...E.S.: Would you mind murdering Little Jim?
....P. Pete (Perak): The time is not yet ripe for
the ragtime poem... .M.C.: Don’t remember what
was the fate of the others, but if they were anything
like this last contribution they must have gone the
way of all tripe.... Bro: Sorry, verses very crude
and sorrowful.... Do us a favor. Weep
somewhere e15e....A.R.N.: Question: Will you buy
my story? Answer: No, we will not buy your story.
It is too d —d old R.R.C.: There are thousands
who could do it so badly, but, praise Allah, they don’t
make, the attempt. There is a great deal of un-
acknowledged horse-sense in this w0r1d.... Isabel
M. M.: Don’t care tor the poem that ends with a
false alarm.... Fourpence Ha’penny: Feeble as a
new-born kitten R.R.C.: Eight verses of four
lines each (32 lines in all), and each line ends
with the words “Lead, Sped, Bled, Dead.” What sort
of barbarian are you? E.P.P.: Patriotic poem to
hand. Gave three hearty cheers and put it in the
basket Rum H.: Beer verses poured 0ut.... Josh:
You cackle like a hen, but you don’t lay any egg.
. ...C.E.8.: Jingle too thin Author of “The
Difference”: You didn’t sign it, but it doesn’t
matter. Let it be basketed as a pauper MS
L.L. (V.): Ragged rhyme misses Tahuna: You
(singing) :
The island gates are resting like watchdogs of the
night
We (also singing) : —.
And the front door looks as quiet as a cow;
Rejecting rotten verses plays old Harry with our
sight,
And we’d take it kindly if you’d stop it now.
....R.W.M. (Q.): Submitted for our approval but
received with yells of rage... .L.J.W.: “Let me go
where none can see me, on the mount or in the dell.”
We will do more than that. We will pay your fare
to any mount or dell within 20 miles that you care
to name—providing you sign an agreement not to
write any more.... Marcus: Yes, she was there right
enough with her “lightsome step” ; but nothing out
of the way happened, and, no doubt, it was duly
chronicled as “a pretty dance.”... .Eric F.: Ex-
quisite, finespun, double wove, ivory laid, gilt-edged
tripe... .Woman-Hater: Forward your prayer to some
archbishop. .. .Eb'lana: You haven’t put a high enough
polish on it K.II. (Q.): Not enough snap and
slam Frank W. (V.) : Drought sketch fair, but it's
too much like a hundred other drought sketches
Schneider F.: Too much German-sausage humor
R.M.V. (W.A.): Why don’t you start a paper of
your own? Either that or emerge in two volumes
once a week.... Mrs. C.C.R.: “Kindly remit to me
at the above address an order for the monetary value
ot this enclosure, the author of which is unknown.”
Whose litergry property do you think you are trying
to sell, and have you authority to do so ?. ...
Kelpie: Mad, but not mad enough C.B.A. (Q.) :
Printed as a prize example of D.B.V. (D —d Bad
Verse) : —•
MORAL DECADENCY.
I sat in a chair at the picture show
And I watched the flappers fair
Giggling, screaming,
Screaming, giggling,
Over a film
Not so nice
In sdme parts
As it ought to have been.
I wen to the Public Library
And I saw a lady there
Asking anxiously,
Anxiously asking
For a book
No so nice
In some parts
As it ought to have been.
I went to a high-class music-hall
And I heard the people there
Laughing gleefully
Gleefully laughing
Over a song
Not so nice
In some parts
As it ought to have been.
I took me home and I sat me down
And the thought it came to me
Moderns like
(Like Moderns)
Many a thing
Not so nice
In many parts
As it ought to have been.


Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/C Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TATjTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
Do You Need Money?
If so, write us and we will tell you how
you can make from
£5 to £lO per Week
We are manufacturers of the famous
“Davis" perfumes, soaps and toilet arti-
cles, and we
need repre-
sentatives in
every com-
munity.
W e illus-
trate one of
our many
combination
boxes —very
popular sell-
ers. You
can make big
money by
selling these
boxes.
If you want
to establish a
business of
your own without investing much money,
where you can earn a good living and
besides accumulate a substantial bank account,
write us today and we will tell you how.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP COMPANY
Dept. EA-10, 222 N. Desplaines St., Chicago, U. S. A.
DIAMOND RAZOR CO
IIIEyTRA HALLOW GROUND
mm
w
9JM
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ñ
ń
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact, llest lacquer brass,
2iin. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions. POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scral ch,
or skin sore, apply
Calvert’s
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a quuk cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
for eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stoics ami Chemists sell it.
Made by F. C. CAL VERT & Co., Manchester, Ek&
A
w.
W'
I
y/y
"to
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
I_IOW much longer are you going
* * to keep on coaxing that razor of
yours —stropping it, fussing with it,
making your face sore and tender
into the bargain ?
Get a Gillette S afety Razor to-day. It is the
one razor for cool,quick,clean,efficient shaving.
The shave you want and ought to have.
You can adjust the Gillette to suit your beard and
skin. You cannot do this with any other razor.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write
for illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GM.LKITE fcAFK'IY RAZOR RTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
mmm
HO STROPPING HO HONING
Safety
Razor
HIHOW
vora
MW
BE YOUR
OWN
§>
I
If you are malting
less than £lO a week
write us today. Wo
can help you to wealth
and independence by
our plan, you can work
when you please, where
you please, always
have money and the
means of making bar-
rels more of it.
JUST LISTEN TO
TUIS. Mr. Lloyd took
a 4000-mile trip accom-
panied by wife and
child. He stayed at
the best Hotels, lived
like a Lord wherever ho went and
cleaned up more than £2 every day
he was out. Another man worked
the carnivals and resorts, and when
there was nothing special to do, just
started out on any street he hap-
pened to select, got busy and pulled
in £l-10 a day for month after
month. This interests you, don’t it?
MY PROPOSITION
Is a WONDERFUL NEW CAMERA with which you can take and instantaneously develop
pictures on paper. Post Cards and Tintypes. Every picture is developed without films or neg-
atives and is ready to deliver to your customer in a minute after making the exposure. THIS
REMARKABLE INVENTION takes 100 pictures an hour and pays you a profit of from 500
to 1,500 per cent. Everybody wants pictures and each sale you make advertises your business
and makes more sales for you. Simple instructions accompany each outfit and you can begin
to make money in a short time after the outfit reaches you.
I*T* PST WE TRUST YOU ~98
SO MUCH CONFIDENCE HAVE WE in our proposition that we TRUST YOU for part
of the cost of the outfit. The regular selling price of tne Camera and complete working outfit
is reasonable. The profits are so big, so quick, so sure that you could afford to pay the full
price if we asked you to do so. But we are so absolutely certain that you can make big money
from the start that wo trust you for a substantial sum which you need not pay unless you clean
up £4O the first month. FAIR ENOUGH, ISN’T IT?
Do not delay a minute but write us today for our free catalog and full particulars. Address
either office. T T A Tl 7 8 Bouverie St., Dept. «yet London, England.
u. LAoUDIiJLI/j 637 W. 43d St., Dept. loO* New York, U. S. ».
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Olub Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of "Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The pricet. in this list are those at which the
various books are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are those at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South Wales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rate of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE NATIVE TRIBES OF THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA. By BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.'G,, F.R.S., Professor
of Biology, University of Melbdu'rue.
With 8 Colored Plates and n'bme'rous
Illustrations. Bvo, Sis. net. (255.)
The <3i/obe. —“Mr. 'Spencer describes his in-
vestigations of the 'customs of the tribes
which inhabit territories of Australia still
almost entirely unknown to the white man,
and it is perhaps needless to say that these,
particularly on Melville Island, were carried
out at great personal ridk to himself.”
THE WILDS OF MAORILAND.
By JAMES MACKINTOSH BELL,
M.A., Ph.D., Fellow of the Geological
Society, etc. With 8 Plates in Color,
many other Illustrations in Black-
and-White, and several Maps. Bvo,
15s.
Standard. —“Lovers of nature in every clime
will be delighted by Mr. Bell’s b00k....1ts
color-pictures are beautifully reproduced, and
altogether it is the most attractive work of
its kind dealing with New Zealand that we
have yet seen....lf there is any better in-
formed or more readable description of the
Dominion the reviewer does not know it.”
MACAULAY’S HISTORY OF ENG-
LAND. ILLUSTRATED EDITION.
Edited by C. H. FIRTH. M.A. With
900 Illustrations, including 44 in
Color, and Photogravure Portrait. In
6 vols. (Published Quarterly.) Super-
royal Bvo. Yols. 1., 11. and 111.,
10s. 6d. net each. (12/6 each.)
Dailt News.— “ This is a great edition of a
great book. We do not know of any more
nobly illustrated history in the English
language.”
FEEDING AND CARE OF BABY.
By F. TRUBY KING, M. 8.. B.Sc.
(Public Health), Edin. Lecturer
on Mental Diseases, Otago Univer-
sity. Bvo. Paper cover. Is. Cloth
cover, 2s. net. (2s. 6d.)
THE DOMINIONS EDITION of
WORKS OF
RUDYARD KIPLING
•: *;:• r v" , r '
IN PROSE and VERSE.
Decorated Blue Gloth.'
Price 3/6 per volume
ACTIONS AND REACTIONS.
REWARDS AND FAIRIES.
SONGS FROM BOOKS.
THE NAULAHKA. By R. KIB-
BLING and W. BALESTIER.
MACMILLAN’S EMPIRE LIBRARY
Paper Covers, 2/6; Cloth, 3/6 per
Volume.
631 and 632.
Scott’s Last Expedition.
Being the Journals of Captain It. F.
SCOTT, C.V.0., R.N.,
Together with the Reports of the other
Journeys and the Scientific Work
undertaken during the Expedition.
Edited by LEONARD HUXLEY,
with the assistance of the surviving
Members of the Expedition. With a
Preface by Sir CLEMENTS R.
MARKIIAM, K.C.8., F.R.S. In 2
vols. With Illustrations and Maps.
H. G. WELLS’ New Eock.
640. THE WIFE OF Slit ISAAC
HARMAN. By 11. G. WELLS,
Author of “Marriage,” etc.
638. A LAD OF KENT. By HER-
BERT HARRISON.
The Times. —“Proves once more how much
can be done with adventures pure and simple
following well-tried lines with the aid of a
fresh pen, a sense of humor, plenty of in-
vention, and a keen zest for the telling of a
stirring tale... .a tale which will appeal
alike to the manhood in almost any boy and
to the spirit of boyhood persistent in most
men.”
A Complete Catalogue of Macmillan’s Empire
Library will be sent on application.
MACMILLAN SCO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


GOOGLIES
THE NEW INDOOR]
CRICKET GAME ,
ņ
Immensely Popular iiTEngland
The Only Perfect Table Game of Cricket
Keenly interesting over by over and
wicket after wicket. Every incident of a
regular'matcb'provided for. Sides chosen,
innings tossed for, each player bats, every
run scored, six-ball overs, each ball re-
corded, byes, leg-byes, wides and no-balls
shown, as well as every cause of dismissal. bowled, caught,
stumped, leg-before, run Out, bit wicket or retired hurt.
The game proceeds just as in a regular match and the
keenest interest is sustained, with the greatest excitement
when there is a close finish. Any number may play, but
eleven a side makes the best game. The ordinary rutes of
cricket apply in every case. An excellent scoring book is
supplied, exactly as for a regular game, with all details for
analysis for 64 innings. Printed directions and entire outfit
packed m a nice box. Try ii and you will say it is the best
table game you have ever played. Price 2/3 we pay carriage
to anv address. The Union Manufacturing & Agency Company,
1 ■ w 299 Eluabeth Street. Melbourne. _
ň
ŉ
COMMONWEALTH
EXPEDITIONARY FORCE
u
ULES for the PRESERVATION OF
HEALTH on FIELD SERVICE.
Things that every Officer and Man can
do to Preserve his own Health.
REMEMBER that disease attacks you from out-
side ; it is your business to keep it outside.
The following rules will help you to do so :
WATER. —DON’T drink unboiled water if you can
get boiled water.
ALWAYS start on the inarch and go pn outpost
with your water-bottle full.
DON’T drink directly you feel thirsty; the oftenei
you drink the thirstier you will become. Drink
as little as possible at a time, more especially if
you are hot. and make up your mind to arrive at
the end of a march with some water still left in
your bottle. , ..
CONSERVANCY. —In personal matters never allow
men to be insanitary. Anything objectionable should
be covered with earth.
REMEMBER that urine is just as dangerous as
solid matter. , ... .
POOD.—NEVER start on the march with an empty
St °NEVER go on outpost or any detached duty
without enough food to carry you over your probable
time of absence, with a nihrgin. . . .
FEET.—REMEMBER that a dirty foot is an
unsound foot. See that the feet are washed, even
if no other part of the body is. Socks should -be
taken off at the end of the march, be flattened out,
and well Shaken. Put on a clean pair, if possible ;
if not, put the left sock on the right foot, and vice
versa No rub or scratch, however slight, should be
neglected. Boots should be greased whenever the
opportunity Occurs. -If wet, stuff the boots with
dry grass, straw, or paper, till they arc dry, and.
don’t put them too near the Are. _ , , „
NEVER march with bare feet in your boots, ir
your socks are worn out, gets some strips of cotton*
or linen, or flannel to wrap round them. i
PERSONAL CLEANLINESS.—REMEMBER that
dirt is one of the commonest causes of disease. Dirt
on your'hands may mean poison in your food. Next
in importance come those parts of your body that
are apt to chafe —as the . inside of your thigiis, etc.
A bath is often an impossibility, but a wet cloth
can do much to cleanse. .
REMEMBER that dirty clothes mean a dirty body ,
clean them as often as you can. If water is not
available, crumple up the clothes, shake them well,
and sub dry them, if possible. ;
Things an Officer can do to Preserve the
Health of his Men.
WATER. —REMEMBER, on arrival in camp, or
on taking up an outpost, to see at once to the posi-
tion of the water supply, and make arrangements
for boiling. The collection of fuel for this purpose
should be the first sanitary fatigue arranged for.
CONSERVANCY.—REMEMBER that latrines and
urinals should be fixed as soon as possible after
arrival at a camp or outpost, and be placed where
thev cannot endanger kitchens or water supply.
FOR all sanitary purposes men must use only the
proper places provided.
ALWAYS leave your camp clean; others may nave
to occupy it after you, and they will suffer if you
neglect this duty. . . , ,
FOOD. —REMEMBER, on arrival in camp, food,
before fatigues. ' ,
REMEMBER that on service all disease is swal-
lowed. See,, therefore, that the cooking is earned
out in as cleanly a manner as possible, and that
food is protected from dirt both before and after
C °FEET,—INSPECT the feet of your men regularly,
and see that they do not neglect the smallest break
111 PERSONAL CLEANLINESS.—SEE that your men
get every opportunity of bathing, and that they take
1 SEE that they get every opportunity of washing or
drv cleaning their clothes.
MISCELLANEOUS-—REST your men as much as
possible. At halts, let them sit or lie down.
ALWAYS make them rig up some kind of shelter
at night, for the head if for no other part of the
k°WATCH vour men, and see that every man that
falls out often on the march, or any man noticed
in camp going to the latrine oftener than usual, is
made to report himself sick at once. The serious
diseases of camp life all begin with diarrhoea, and this
should, therefore, be looked upon as a danger signal.
It may mean nothing, but it should never be over-
IO °CLOTHING is intended to protect from heat, cold
and damp. See that your men use it accordingly.
V rn them especially against neglecting to change
\ clothes, and also against running the risk ot
ei u to the stomach by not wearing a flannel
-i— n h-if.
Business Announcements.
p, T UF.CT- PRODUCTION OF IRON AND STEEL
FROM ORE. The owners of Commonwealth
Patent No. 19216, dated September 5, 1910, are
desirous of entering into communication with anyone
desirous of using the process referred to either upon
royalty or otherwise.
Offers received or information supplied by
COLLISON & CO.,
Patent Attorneys for Patentees, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Eagle Chambers, Adelaide.
FIGHTING THE GERMANS
And GUARDING THE TRADE OF THE' EMPIRE'
a splendid and most
WAR GAME..
cruisers lie in wait at various places •
in tlie Atlantic, Pacific
and Indian Oceans to
I attack and capture mer-
chant .vessels, but the ‘‘ -—— , «
British men-o'-war are watchful and they come promp y
to the rescue. Rich cargoes of manufactured goods are
carried to all parts of the world and the natural products
of the oversea dominions are shipped to
Game is played on a LARGE MAP OF THE WORLD,
10 x 16 inches with British and German cruisers and
cargo steamers The price is only 2/-, including
delivery at any address, and, if you mention this paper
when ordering, you will receive a free gift of a Handbook
of the War, containing full particulars about the fight g
strengths of the nations, armies, fleets, alliances, tood
supplies., &c Obtainable only from
thf UNION manufacturing company
. 899 Elizabeth - ..exwJ
exciting
German
ŋ
Only 2/- j
Free Gift
Saturday brought to an end the first round
ofi-vfSWe'hoofball, andl left Cf ton South
’Roy and Geelong to worry out the fina ° e ®
thp last set of games counted —that Detween
t,?.. * , c ou th A 26,000 crowd crammed
SothelroSto witch’what turned out to be a
Umentahle disiointed exhibition, relieved only by
the high marking, gaudy kicking and accurate pass-
ing of" half a dozen Geelongese. A similar numbe
of Magpies strove valiantly but less effectively g
the bah where they wanted it, tatweak- <*«J» and
forward lilies failed them repeatedly. So much so,
in fact that several ’bailers were urgently desired by
barrackers to “come over the,fence and sit ;lown and
let'those who were playing have a chance. It
heart-breaking for the Colhngwood backs to clear
\[ r g oa i only to see the ball taken at the centre
anti f sent'back again, time after time till the bell
rang with Geelong 58 points to Wood s 34. Haa
Seasiders. an even team the pennant would
be ' theirs 6 to’ the taking, but less than ha f
of the 18 are really first-class. The rest
play well,' but no better. They fill probably
beat South hext : Saturday, the Red-and-Whites being
temporarily demoralised or demobilised, or some-
thing. For the-rest, Essendon concluded its + bogging-
in brilliantly by stamping on ’ltoy (68 points to 50),
thus deposing the Maroons to third place. Carlton
downed Richmond by 63 to 57. South outed Mel-
bourne by 78 to 35; and the Saints trod on the
Sinners, otherwise Students, by 93 to 5_,. The
Students have now gone through two seasons with-
out winning one blessed game, and this writer hereby
earnestly advises them to throw an ultimatum at
themselves. _ # # , .
rlurifig the week the League’s tribunal overhauled
cemin over-strenpous players, and passed twO out
until June 30, 1915, by which time anything may
have happened. l # *
The Soccer competition for the champion-
ship of N.S.AV. entered upon its third and final round
on last. Newtown, Corrimal and the
YM.CA 1 were the eliminated. Newtown was
smashed bv Holroyd, the scores being three_ to one.
YMC A. fell to Balmain —a regular debacle, six
goals 'to nil. Corrimal was overthrown by Gran-
ville by seven goals to none. In the Australian Code
competition Sydney overthrew Central Western in
the ’ semi-finals by 79 points to 61. Sydney got a
spurt on in the first quarter and piled ud such a
margin of points that the strenuous work of the
other crowd through the other three-quarters failed
to count. South Sydney downed Paddington by 75
to 29,’ which was a very whole-souled outrage, and
almost amounts to perdition. ( That is to say, it put
up a fine struggle right through the season, and went
to pieces at the finish- Enlistment smashed up the
club’s prospects, this time. Kaiser Bill will, no doubt,
be glad’to' hear, amidst the roar of Anglo-French
artifiery and the trampling of innumerable Bears
over his eastern frontier, that he brought, about, the
downfall of Paddington.’-' 1
* * * *
In Sydney the Rugby League, having de-
cided the premiership, started out! on the sudden-
death iaunt for the City Cup. In this cheerful
scrap the team that falls by the wayside is down and
out for -ever. There is no return match.
On Saturday South Sydney fell on Balmain,
the club.i that made such a good showing
during the second round for the premiership, and
slew it to a complete corpse by eight to three.
Balmain, 1 like all the other clubs,- has' suffered
through the war. On Saturday last it had to call
up its reserves, as those of its best men who were
not in the camp were toiling overtime getting tran-
sports ready, so it was a somewhat raw force with
which the Tattered Suburb faffed the men from the
dusty area of South Sydney. South had a better
team, inasmuch as it took advantage of all the_
opportunities. Balmain’s crowd didn’t, and fell in
withi a splash. Glebe and Newtown had a tremendous
struggle, and it was anybody’s game up to near the
end. Glebe climbed out bn top with 15 points to
13. Eastern Suburbs trampled Annandale under
foot, the figures being 12 to five. North Sydney
swept down from its hills, crossed the water, and
fell on Western Suburbs with a great crash, and when
the bits were picked up and sorted out it wgs
found that the hillmen had beaten the westerners
by 15 to six. So next Saturday South Sydnev,
Glebe, North Sydney and Eastern Suburbs will
eliminate t,wo more of themselves-S-harring drawn
games. #
“The Prad”: JRe the remarks and con-
tumely heaped on the unspellable and unpro-
nounceable names of racehorses (B. 20/8/’l4), _ A
Victorian ;owner hds set the example of simplicity,
by christening his prads One, Two and Three. How
much brain work was needed to evolve such wonder-
ful nomenclature! When I become a horse-owner I
will name my animals Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus,-
Deuteronomy, Numbers, David, Goliath, Jeremiah,
Paul, Jerusalem, Pharaoh, and so on.
Shortly after he was appointed leader of
the Vic." Labor party, George Elmslie pre-
dicted that at the next State elections nine
extra scst,s : would come their way. Then,
suffering from’ the strain of this prophecy,
Elmslie went, to sleep. It is highly probable
thatjhig-'b'brbpllecy will be fulfilled; yet, if
he Were a wise prophet, he would do some-
thin} to give it a lift. One seat, Port
Fair! j, lost last time, will certainly be re-
gained. The . present member is almost too'
sleepy tgf know that* )an,election is pending.
Then D'undas, of which Hamilton is the
centre, should turn over, more especially as
Thompson, the- sitting member, will not go
up for re-election.. Ballarat East, torn
wrongfully from McKissock in 1910, will
also go back. These three should be cer-
tainties.- Essendon was also booked, but it
has already been taken. Only two city seats
are held by the Tories —Plan (Mackinnon)
and Melbourne-, (Rogers). They will both
be assaulted, but may hold out. The other
seats are expected to come from Ararat,
where the spluttersome Toutcher reigns;
Hampden, "held by Oman, as dull as man as
ever sat in any Parliament; Glenelg. Pol-
warth and Warrnambool. With good can-
didates and hard work Labor should secure
all of these. If it does,' it will hold about
half Parliament, instead of the present one-
third ; and there is enough difference between
the two fractions to choke four-fifths of the
Victorian Kookaburra’s cackle.
[Frank S. Smith, Noorat, Vic.]
Outburst by our old, unreliable friend,
“Imperialist,” in the Malay Mail (9/7/’l4)
concerning Australia; —
The whole country is groaning under the misrule
of a Bureaucracy of Syndicalists recruited from the
lowest ranks of labor, who look upon capitalists, large
or small, as “social parasites” delivered into their
hands to be fleeced and robbed in every possible way.
Well, The Bulletin isn’t in the confidence
of Joseph Gook and his bureaucracy,' but
it’ll swear he, John Forrest, P. McM. Glynn,
Bruce Smith, Willie Kelly, W. H. Irvine,
Senator Millen and the rest of them fought
tooth and claw for the capitalist at least
on one occasion—in the matter of the Bill
to impose a Federal land tax. The paper
has a hazy idea there were other similar
occasions, but it can be siire of n'othmg
these days—-not even the war news in the
papers.
[John Barr, 214 George-street,- Sydney.]
Sydney’s City Railway.
A matter which the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment says it really intends to deal with when
the foreign loan floats again is the Sydney
and suburban railway system. (At present
the foreign loan is drowned and won’t float,
but it is expected that the old liability will
come to the surface to breathe sooner or
later.) The Sydney and suburban railway
has beed discussed till it has become a
misery, like the North Shore bridge and simi-
lar ancient superstitions. Early last month
—before i the foreign loan was drowned
because ij: couldn’t float—the map of the new
arrangement was published in the Sydney
daily papers. It showed how a sort of branch
confusion was to diverge from the main line
near Macdonaldtown, and do a circular tour
through the city, Sydney being apparently a
place which doesn’t require a big main line
such as Melbourne possesses, but can do with
any old sort of subsidiary arrangement.
Another line was to strike oil about 1 eter-
sham, and a third was to dribble away fiom
Erskineville. They were all to be branches
or side-shows, and the old dead-end station, v
which E. W. O’Sullivan built on, a costly
artificial hump or hill piled up above the
bones of the old Devonshire-street cemeteiy,
was still, apparently, to be the official ter-
minus. There is something unaccountable
about the sanctity which attaches to that
clumsy and outlandish blunder on top of the
skeletons of an old God’s acre. As a matter
of fact, Sydney requires a plain, business-like
main line right through the city, just as does
any other place of size and importance. Ihe
urgent need is to cut down the artificia
mound at the Central Station—which isn t
“central”—and make the site' an ordinary
suburban station like Newtown, and run the
Melbourne and Brisbane and Westernand
other long-distance trains, and al-o the subui
San trains, right into the city-say, about
Wynyard-square. Then they should go
straight on out of the city and over the har-
bor, and do all the necessary shunting and.
reconstruction at some quiet spot in the
suburbs, instead of having to; back out of the
bottom of a sack, and thus grievously block
and disorganise traffic. The idea of preserv-
ing the out-of-the-way dead-end station on
thf costly and artificial hillock, simply
because the folly lias been paid for out: of
loans; and making Ahe real ■ city railway a
sort of side line; arid stopping a fewjtiams
in the dead-end station to keen up a pie
tence that it is still useful, will never pay-
The “Central” is a jest. , Coarse and brutish
strangers 1 howl with mirth- when the, .«.»
situation. Polished and- hypoerifacal mg»ei
from India, and cultured half-breeds from
Mexico compose their fe^t^- with difficulty,
and say that the. idea of putting the Ter
minus of a continent’s imperial town a mile
S- two away from the business centre is
really brilliant. The better class of South
S?a Islanders admit, that they never saw any-
thimr iust like it when they were out whale
fishing. Something drastic ought to be done
H the matter of that railway station. Otliei
wise a day may come when f n Eskimo will
laugh at it, and an Arab, seeing it, will gad
up his camel and flee in terror.
“Moana”: Why isn’t something done to
annihilate the modern pirates-who mostly
infest Fogland, but who advertise Ridicu-
lously simple “missing letter” competitions m
the local papers, with “a handsome gold
watch” as the first prize? Six months ago
a girl friend of mine went in for ‘ A Gigantic.
European ' Towns Competition” that was
freely advertised in Maoriland by some un-
known brigancls of Birmingham. The com-
petitor had to clip a coupon and supply the
complete name of the following towns:
“London, Par*s and Berlin.” My girl
friend guessed London, Paris and Beilin as
being the correct solution of the tremendous
conundrum, and I congratulated her on hei
sagacity Three months later she received
a lengthy letter from Birmingham, also con-
gratulating her on her wonderful intelligence,
and informing her that she had guessed righ
and had won the first prize, a beautiful
gold watch valued” (by someone unspecifiid)
“at Five Guineas.” But the watch wasn t
handed out. Not on your life. Accom-
panying the letter was about 31b. of jewellery
catalogue, in which it was furthei explainei
that the competition had been promoted to
advertise “our famous chains, • and that
the prize watch would be forwarded as soon
as my friend expended not less than £2 on
the purchase of a chain. I strongly advised
her to give this proposal the frozen look, but
the “beautiful gold watch” had mesmerised
her, and so two good sovereigns were rushed
Fogwards. The other day the watch and
chain arrived, and, the duty on jewellery
being 25 per cent., suspicion was aroused by
the fact that the amount demanded by the
Post Office on this score was only 4s. When
the package was opened suspicion leapt forth
and began to claw the air. Being a bit ot
a jewellery expert I value the beautiful
gold watch” at Bs. 6d„ and the “handsome
gold chain” I consider would at bd
That meant- a clear profit of 315., and it
seems a pity to encourage Brummagem at
the price. Some people would denounce the
deal as barefaced robbery. I" content myself
by merely calling it obtaining money under
false pretences, arson, forgery and barratry.
———♦
Someone should put a geranium on the
grave of Thomas Mcllwraith these days.
He was a fat man and a wild speculator,
but he did one notable deed—when he was
Premier of Queensland he hoisted the
British flag over all_of Papua which wasn’t
already owned by the Dutch. If the time-
serving Derby and the hesitating Granville
hadn’t disallowed his act there would have
been no German Papua.
Probably the Colonial Institute (London)
didn’t intend to be sarcastic when it sug-
gested, as cabled, tl: an exhibition be held
in the Big Smoke to demonstrate that Eng-
land can really ma-ke . those articles usually
branded “Made in Germany,” .and which it
must do without for a” while now. One of
the advantages of the Foreign-trade policy
is that when the day of trouble comes and
you have to do without a lot of things that
you used to import, you have the pleasure
of building factories and learning how to
make them —if the enemy allows you time.
“Jeames”: The Indian is a casual sort
of customer, as regards his habits about
the house, even when of high rank. In
London, when the last mail left, H.H. the
Dowager Maharanee of Cooch Behar was
being sued for damage done to a town house
she had rented. According to the maddened
owner he found, as a result of three months
occupation by the Maharanee, the following
state of affairs: —
Fleas in all the bedrooms. . . ,
Turkey carpet in dining-room badly stained witl
grease marks.
Marks on walls by striking matches
Calendar nailed on morning-room wall.
Furniture marks'- on the walls.
Inkstains on carpet and curtains.
Hole in Persian carpet.
Sideboard marked by hot dishes.
Duchess dressing-table and chairs injured.
Mahogany rail on staircase knocked out.
Also his wife burst into tears when she
arrived home and discovered the condition
of their abode, and he had to go and live at
his club while it was being rendered ht tor
human habitation. The Asiatic’s reputation
as a tenant has never been high in London.
The classic, horrible example was afforded
bv the colored potentate who rented Dor-
chester House, the Holford family s palace
in Park-lane. The tenants from overseas
used the place as though it had been the
open country. They cooked their meals on
the dining-room carpet, washed their under-
clothes in the hall, hung perishable pro-
visions in the drawing-rooms, and spat
freely everywhere. A fortune had to be
spent in disinfectants after tlieir departure.
That the Cooch Behar family should evince
the same Asiatic indifference to the laws ol
hygiene and so on is peculiar, inasmuch
as they are largely Anglicised. Old Cooch
Behar, friend of Edward VII. and of the
whole musical comedy stage of Ins period,
was more like a London courtier than an
Indian prince. His sons were educated at
Oxford, and his daughters are like English
girls in all but complexion. Apparently
training has no effect when an Asiatic
hears the East a-calling to him to eat ott
the floor and throw the gravy at the waifs.
When the old Shah of Persia was in London,
by the way, he used to throw whatever
food he didn’t appreciate under the table.
And when he left, after some weeks, the
decayed food was still under the table. Still
his habits were no worse than some of the
music-hall songs that were made about him.
He was contemporary with the. Tichboine
“claimant, and the vaudeville genius used, to
mix them together. One gem- started;
Oh, have you seen the Shah?
Have you seen his sword-and dagger?
Have you seen the precious stones
He brought from Wagga Wagga ?
The thing had a great vogue in London I
don’t know why.
“Hooray” : Regarding tbe singing P ost ;
men, mentioned in B. 13/8/A 4 * who lined
the roof of Melbourne G.P.0., on Mafelang
Saturday, years ago. While the astounding
exhibition was in progress I ran into a
querulous old man who had been in after a
letter from his grandson, and, failing to get
it, wanted to know the reason why. The
faint burst of song from mid-air fell on his
ear just as he eiherged from thmbuilding.
“What’s that?” lie quavered. Its the
postmen singing,” I said. Postmen sing-
ing i” He peered at me dazedly. Postmen
singing! What do postmen want to sing
for! I never heard a postman sing
before!” “There they are,” I said, and
pointed to where the caps showed above
the high parapet. The ancient elevated his
chin till he seemed to be doing a balancing
trick with his whiskers. Then a sudden
gust of honest rage shook him, and he waved
his stick threateningly. “Nice postmen you
are!” he screamed. “Stop singing, ' you
rascals, and get me my letter!” It was an
entirely reasonable request, but a few fools
near by roared at him and denounced him
as a pro-Boer. I think they, would have
mobbed him if his white whiskers hadn t
been so abundant. It was a great time tor
fools, and hardly anyone was safe who hadn t
armfuls of white whiskers.
“Chudah”: Julius Wernher’s fortune,
from South African gold, diamonds and
banking, was hastily sized up ,by his execu-
tors at £5,000,000. It panned out finally at
the appalling total of £11,500,000.. It is
the largest estate ever probated in Eng-
land. The eldest son, Derrick Wernher. is
cut off with £150.000. He had overdone
the post obit habit and been bankrupted.
While at Oxford he got £25,000 in debt.
That was paid by his suffering parent,
whereupon he proceeded to owe 180,000
more. He gave his total assets as £250 ol
which £175 represented the worst of bad
debts—loans to pals. The bulk of the
money goes to the second son, A. H. Wem-
her, of the 12th Lancers, and a noted horse-
man.
The Johannesburg Chronicle of July 3
thus describes the welcome accorded Lord
Gladstone (then acting as substitute tor
George V. in South Africa) at that town:
The police arrangements left nothing to chance.
Never was the palace of the Czar of Russia better
guarded than was the Carlton Hotel last night, there
were detectives at the entrances, in the kitchen, in
the lobbies and passages, on the balconies and mixed
with the crowd. A force of police was kept standing
to arms at Marshall Square, and the Carlton Hock
was surrounded by men in uniform. Hie detectives
on duty at the Carlton remained there all night and
were relieved at an early hour this morning. Even
Boy Scouts did some sort of duty.
No mining magnates were observed amongst
the crowd who extended the glad hand
loaded with half a brick or weather-beaten
hen-fruit. .
“X. Q. Zmee”: Brother Gainford (menir
tioned in The Bulletin of 13/8/T4)
didn’t tell his audience the whole truth
about Carson, .whom lie dubbed “the British
Garibaldi.” He didn’t tell them that the
rebel had been supplied by Germany with
arms and that he had several times had
private interviews with Kaiser William. It
is supposed by people who Tinow that Wil-
liam expected to have England engaged in
civil war when he made his grand coup,
and that Carson is considered by large
numbers in the British Isles as a traitoi
of the first water and a foreigner’s hireling.
The idea could only entej into the head of
a sectarian megalomaniac to compare Car-
son with Garibaldi. Garibaldi fought tor
his country’s freedom on many a hard-won,
or hard-lost field, whilst Carson has fought
only with his mouth or in the deadly teeth
of a photographic battery.


Suffered Intense Misery. Itched
Terribly, Bled When Scratched,
Used Two Tins of Cuticura Oint-
ment, Hands Weil,
Ocean View, Lilcunda, Yic.—“Cuticura
Ointment has cured my hands after suffer-
ing intense misery for several years. About
n
ñ
ń
eleven years ago little red
spots appeared on both
hands which itched so ter-
ribly that I would rub
them with the scissors till
the skin came off. They
grew worse, swelled and
cracked, causing great
pain, which however was
not so bad as the irrita-
tion. I have waked in the morning to And
my hands bleeding where I had scratched
them while asleep. After being like this for
about three years my hands gradually got
better, but never well.
“A gentleman who had suffered from
weeping eczema and who had tried every-
thing cured himself with the Cuticura
Remedies. He persuaded me to try the
Cuticura Ointment, which I did. I used
two tins of the Cuticura Ointment as
directed, and my hands are well, the skin
sound, smooth and soft, whereas since they
first took bad they have been hard, cracked
and dry, when not bleeding.” (Signed) Mrs.
H. Berryman, June, 1912. -
For more than a generation Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment have afforded the
most economical treatment for affections of
the skin and scalp that torture, itch, burn,
scale, and destroy sleep. Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment are sold throughout
the world. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book. Address R.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. They cure con- ■
stipation, banish
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion, /
put a healthy/
glow on the
cheek and
sparkl 3 in the eye. There are many imitations. Be
sur; and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but result*
are alright. Ine GENUINE must bear signature
ņ
Carters
iittle•
IVER
PILLS.
ň
r
’’ \! rfßS'
- /•/
S'*.
VSi
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks onlv 30. Dr B
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easv to applv
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S ( u.s. A .,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equallv suitable
for Ladies Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers’ Attention.
OEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
O 100 Manila Cigars. Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for ;>OO Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped —Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINCELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849 »•* •- - - *
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
ami r P i\ *> , , or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
Debentnrps i ?f f ’ t . oral a " (I Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
7pniar,a Ureh ’ * nscrll,e d Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. BTAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Lair new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege of repaying
up to -0 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
hnox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: S 7 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary. ”
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes :
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
“ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without danger,
“even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (called Iron ‘Jelloids’
“No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness-accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—constipatio
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anremia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
ESP
Iron ‘deltoids’
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anaemia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation
No “ rust ”in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well-braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Mrs. H- C. Viles, 4, Cape Breton Villas, Astwood, writes: —“I cannot
speak too highly of your Iron ‘Jelloids,’ I feel quite well and strong again.
I know of nothing so good as your ‘Jelloids’ for Anaemia; they gradually
built up my strength. I have difficulty in taking iron in any other form.”
A Fortnight’s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
/RON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women;
No. 2A (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
The * Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
ŉ
Texend
■braces
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort, Style
At first class shops,
31 -
4
J 1
&
Prizes Value £4OOO in the
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 31, 1914.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £3OO. And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. C. Morrison,
Balmain, Svdnev, N.S.W., for the modest outlay r.f ON E
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1914.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 5.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
Benjamin Hoare, of the Age, who during
the referendum-campaigns of 1911 and 1913
was a muzzled democrat, has the gag off now.
He is permitted to write chatty political
. sketches in his paper, most of them ex-
tremely unfavorable to the party which
dished Labor’s proposals. One of Hoare’s
characters, in a cafe-dialogue entitled “Sell-
ing the People’s Liberties,” delivered the
following outburst without suffering
reprisals: “Why, the methods of Labor are
a mere trifle in the way of personal restric-
tion as compared with the bare-faced domi-
nation which seeks to trample Liberalism
under the heel of a purse-proud Conser-
vatism.” If Hoare had written this a year
or two ago he would have been arrested by
the office staff, under orders from Above,
dragged three times around the building, and
then flung into the dungeons below the Hoe'
press. As it is, the office now regards him
with pride and admiration, and thinks
nothing, of inviting itself to take a smoke
with him in the intervals of duty.
[Frank Henty, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
“Muldoon”: It’s no good. You can’t hide
anything from these sleuths of the press.
The heads of the Australian army announced
that the destination of the Australian
Expeditionary Force was to be kept abso-
lutely secret, yet the Wagga (N.S.W.)
Express discovered and revealed the Force’s
information thus on August 20: —
AUSTRALIAN EXPEDITIONARY FORCE.
ARRIVES AT COCKATOO ISLAND.
The first Australian expeditionary force, which left
Fort Macquarie for an unknown destination, arrived
safely at Cockatoo Island.
The paper didn’t mention the casualties.
This omission was possibly due to pressure
on space. The dreadful naval engagement
off Goat Island, when 10 garbage-punts went
down with all refuse on board, was doubt-
less known to the Wagga Express, but the
Censor forbade it to print the information.
Never since Lepanto has there been such a
fight as the garbage-punt put up off Goat
Island, when the lid of the ash-barrel flew
off and the decayed contents said they would
smell to the bitter end.
“D.” : The war has at least done the ser-
vice of introducing to Australia a phrase so
old that it reads like new—viz., “cock-pit.”
I estimate that every local leader-writer has
remarked profoundly, at least four times,
“Belgium may be termed the cock-pit of
Europe.” One can get at the age of the
good old gag by going back to the remote
period when cock-fighting was a live diver-
sion, and men spoke of the Pit as collo-
quially as Sydneyites do of the Stadium.
Few things have been more diverting, during
the present gloomy and lying period, than
the naif assurance with which our daily
paper war-guides have trotted out this octo-
genarian epigram as their own. Why not
call it the bull-ring of Europe?
* * * *
“The Religious Editor”: I suppose the
fashion-rag illustrators are responsible for
it, but nowadays every second female drags
one leg after her as if she were partly
paralysed. At least the pose she adopts
when halted suggests that one of her sup-
ports is partially dead. I saw a flapner
reading a lost-dog notice on a railway bridge
at an unfashionable hour the other morning,
and the foot she wasn’t standing on was
balanced on its shoe-point some inches
behind her. She seemed to have forgotten it.
There was a hole in the heel of her stocking
about as large as the entrance to the .Tenolan
Caves; but I wouldn’t have noticed it if
she hadn’t been so fashionable. This atti-
tude, if I remember rightly, came in about
the same time as the skin-tight fashions
and the sneaky, slinky, sidelong gait intro-
duced to these parts by visiting English
musical comediennes. Whenever a flash
larrikin walked like that years ago he used
to be referred to slightingly as a “Jeary
cove.” Wonder how much longer the
leary she-cove 'is to be with us? She
appears in the fashion-plates until she makes
me tired. And, when you look at her care-
tuiiy, you always find she has a hole in the
heel of her stocking.
A CRUEL PREDICAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
~ , . New York., Tuesday.
Ureat indignation is felt here at the ruthless
censoring of the war news from Europe. An effort
is being made to get into touch with Berlin by direct
wireless. — War cable.
Say, look a-here!” exclaimed the agitated city- or
news-editor of the Gotham Press.
We got the Biggest Thing Ever a-happenin’ right
over thar in old, played-out Europe—yes!
WAR, sirree! WAR, by the Great Horn Spoon, and
none of your dinky little scraplets,
But the genooine, high-souled, heart-to-heart good§
bein’ delivered right fair all over them Yuropean
maplets 1 ”
He chewed his cigar, and resumed: “Why, somethin’s
doin’ —you hear me?
Say, all them old monarehs and guys with crowns,
and their ‘See-Me-an’-Fear-Me !’
All the Kaisers an’ Czars, and the I’m-It-Band, and
the High-Lords hazy—
They’ve gone off like a bunch of crackers, and tiie
stunts they’re doin’ ’d send you crazy!
“Their armies are millyuns strong—and all hard
mobilisin’—•
Their navies and air-fleets are crowdin’ each other—
it’s sure surprisin’ 1
And the greatest and thrillingesl fights in this yere
little footstool’s family story
Are now bein’ staged, regardless, by the colossal
‘movies’ Combine of War and Honor an’ Glory !
“Say—an’ this is what gets me! When this is such
a Big Thing, ‘outsize’ in Immense, sir 1 —
The whole blamed show is kinder slowed-up for
U.S. by a guy called a Censor!
Great Greeley ! But think of the stories, the thrills,
the scareheads, and the noose we could fix-up
If ’twarn’t fer the sunstruck fellers they’ve put on
deck in slow-goin’ Yurope for to tape-off the
mix-up!
“It’s crool! There’d be twenty editions in some of
the scoops that we’re losin’;
It’s me for the plain Truth, these times —it’s all I
ask ; and the Censor’s refusin’ 1
We’d not do a thing to the War —no! Nor alter one
word in the cables,
So long as they fizzed.... But they don’t!. . . .Oh,
mother! we’re down and out now, for the public
ain’t takin’ no fables!”
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
1
G
H
Z'O
set
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.Ij. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior liand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
‘Goudroil,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
ŋ
n
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each ("post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE
“Golden Ivey”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
.
Put up in cedar cabinets containing -
25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
jhree Witches
VIRGINIA
'WCRR.4
. 8. Sons L 1
TOBACCOS.
“Suiiol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug Ol’
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“JjOnus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfullv blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
mar.
\m
m
c
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ „ Real Morocco . . 3/6 »
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
„ „ Gazelle 5/- »
„ Velvet Calf 6/6 ~
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothin"
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
ñ
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, sold rim,
in case, 1.0/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case . . . 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
ń
ņ
ň
B
E
T
T
E
R
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving toeiS, J. icuowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—•
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated "Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Hay market, Sydney
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
Watermans'
Ideal
4
HIM
IOlA'-
«Mi
Economise Time, La-
bour and Money by pur-
chasing and regularly
using Waterman’s Ideal
Fountain Pen. You will
work quicker, with less
effort and better result;
and the one pen will,
with ordinary care, last
a lifetime.
In four typos—Regular,
Safety, Self-FUllng and
Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationei s
& Jewellers everywhere.
L. A C. HAEDTMUTH. Ltd.,
LONDON, England.
(Australia :
350, George St. Sydney.)
Write for booklet.
NIBS TO SUIT ALL HANDS
DINNEFORD’S
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
- In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
ŉ
Fairbanks-morse
MARINE ENGINES
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start easily, run smoothly, develop full rated
power. Simple, compact. All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed Engines, 3%
to 24 H.P. Slovv-speed Engines, 1%
to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
Distillate. Stationary and Portable sizes,
2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple,
compact. Two sizes. Will operate any
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
AGENTS—
Type “K”
71 h.p.
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
FM
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUST RATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
iy raving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrjk
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De toe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Trices, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter. Is. posted, llovv to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s Gd. AUST. Miners’ G UIDK (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd! Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamers Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality. 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
OF Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
British Gd. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How -ro
Tr ain for all Sports. Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How TO Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins. Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
)<>* Gd. ’ AUSTRALIAN PASTRYCOOK S GUIDE, Is 6(1,
■
1
■
n
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KM BRACING
THE PO I*lll.-\ll “PEA I X HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Panes.
IT IS FItEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feei a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA* address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. “W§
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, <£c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plav Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is: post
is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Sulk Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life op Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guidf,,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. i®s~Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Hush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford's Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/(1. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL'S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO ItEAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassk’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarp. Macfaddkn s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONkw
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure. Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600i'.lus., leather
bound, mv price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyance,
Is Dost. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


MRS. L. BLYTHE and DAUGHTER
/
Another Wise Mother who keeps her Child Clean
and Healthy with REXONA Skin and Facial Soap.
“I have used your Rexona Soap for myself and my little girl (four years old), and
I find it a great healer of Dandruff - , as well as softening and promoting growth of
hair, and keeping the most sensitive skin in healthy and excellent condition,” writes
.Mrs. D. Blythe, 6 Marion Street, Caversham, Dunedin, N.Z. “Under troublesome
climate conditions, hot and cold, it has far exceeded my greatest expectations, as I
have used so many varieties of similar articles, but I must honestly and faithfully
admit that your Rexona Soap stands unequalled above them all, I conscientiously
lliink any lad.v who reads these few lines of gratitude, and gives your Rexona Soap
one trial will echo my praises of its virtues.”
The REXONA HABIT.
A habit formed is
hard to break. Bad
habits are easily formed,
but good habits can be
attained almost as
easily. The Rexona
habit results in health
and beauty, and once
formed will never be
broken.
There are two Rexona
habits—that of using
Rexona Ointment to
heal all injuries to the
skin, and the Rexona
Soap habit, which con-
sists of keeping oneself
clean and pure with a
delicately scented and
medicated soap. Rexona
Ointment and Rexona
Soap mean clean skin,
health and beauty, com-
fort to the user, and im-
munity from disease.
MED \ CAT ED SOAP.
soo-rniN^^^fe^^**
HEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP ' s
t* MEDICATED on THE SAME PRINCIPLE
as THE FAMOUS REXONA OIWTNENT^^^^^j
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINER EUSC ™ C EQUIPMENT
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found the
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few: —
(1) It is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
(5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v.bration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary—the Falklner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest.
cheapest and cleanest
power!
©
9sr
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequalled in small consumption of
power. sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALRINER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
n
ASK for Bostock featherweights, the most lux-
urious of shoes. Lightness is their distinc-
tive feature and quality their charm. They
are the cream of imported shoes. True to their
description, they are as light as a feather on the
feet, and exactly meet the growing, but in this
climate perfectly desire for dainty,
pliant shoes.
Bostock featherweights are always interesting,
whether on the foot or in the hand. The skilful
work, conspicuous in every pair, never fails to
command one’s admiration.
Beautifully made from the choicest of leathers,
they are obtainable from the leading shoo stores.
Special shipments have recently arrived, and
ladies should call before the choicest styles are
sold.
802
§0
■m
m
Style 587
A Calico War Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rll HIS is the tale of Jones and Co.,
I Who beat the fierce, embattled foe
With yards of rotten calico. ,
Rise up and cheer for Jones and Co.!
Hip, hip, hooray!
Hoop roo! Hoop ray!
For Jones and Co. and calico!
Jones was a draper, fierce and stern ;
lie sold gay rags from morn till night;
About his rags he’d naught to learn,
And nothing could fierce Jones affright.
(And I would also have you know
That Jones, as well as Jones, was “Co.”)
A hen war’s hot blast blew down his street,
He didn’t hold a clearing sale,
Rut paddled on extensive feet
Past ladies fair and ladies pale.
(The ladies in a pallid row
Condemned their Jones and loathed the Co.)
Jones sought a tall, frock-coated jay,
And bade him straight display a sign
Inscribed : "Hoch ! IIocli! Hooray ! Hooray,
Cheap Calico from Eight till Nine.”
“Then,” added Jones, say, “Free from
Rents!
A Roll will make Three Splendid Tents.”
Next day at nine the foe marched in
With beat of drum and tramp of feet:
They made a most appalling din,
But through the row they heard a sweet
“What can I do for you?” You know
That was the voice of Jones and Co.
The ladies fair and ladies pale
Were spoken to as barmaids are,
Who bring the amber German ale
To soldiers who have marched afar.
They didn’t like it, but they had
To humor each insulting lad.
And Jones, in.spite of bayonet prods
And hearty kicks, went to and fro,
Placating all the Prussian gods,
And looking like a busy Co.
His coat-tails, kicked anti torn and bust,
Gave off a haze of roadside dust.
They did not pay brave Jones in gold,
But gave him Prussian lOTI’s ;
This finance made his blood run cold;
The rubbish he dared not refuse.
He thanked them in an abject way,
And asked: “Now is that all to-day?”
They called him “pig” and “svine” and
things
That made the pallid girls rejoice.
The Prussians begged of them their rings,
And bade each lady raise her voice
In song. (This was a dreadful blow
To Jones. It neatly bust the Co.!)
The ladies, pale, shed scalding tears,
For no shopwalker lent them aid ;
Mere privates tweaked their pretty ears,
And contracts for mad kisses made
Across the counter. One more blow
To decency and Jones and Co.!
“What can I do for you?” shrieked Jones.
They kicked him harder to and fro,
And jarred him to his very bones,
Until —they heard a bugle blow!
The Germans straight for cover tore.
French bayonets flashed in at the door!
There was no fight, for .Tones, you know,
Forbade the slaughter. “Forward, please !
Don’t shed blood on my calico!”
The Germans fell upon their knees.
The ladies fair and ladies pale
Swayed in a shrill, hysteric gale.
It was a splendid victory—-
Fit climax for a clearing sale.
And now Jones flaunts his proud V.C.
In front of ladies fair and pale.
And, o’er the well-kicked rearward place,
He tows a mass of real gold lace.
This is the tale of Jones and Go.
Who heat the fierce, embattled foe
With yards of rotten calico.
Forward, and cheer for Jones and Co.!
N.S.W.
MR. CHIFFON.
Tuppence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE was a plain, careworn little woman
about forty, with a baby in her arms,
a shabby purse and two brown paper
parcels in her hand. When the guard came
along for her fare she had mislaid her two-
pence, so I paid it for her. She was pro-
fusely thankful, and insisted on getting my
name and address; and on giving me hers.
For what purpose this latter Heaven only
knows, except that I might sue her in case
she didn’t spar up the two browns.
We always talk at our dinner-table, the
wife and the kids and I —especially them.
But this evening I butted in first.
“I did a knightly deed this afternoon,” I
announced. “I succored a female in dis-
tress !”
My wife said nothing, but the extra ladle
of soup that was going into my plate went
back into the tureen.
“The age of chivalry is not dead. The
axiom of the Boy Scout bears fruit: Never
a good day without a Good Deed! She had
been out shopping—overdrew her account—
hopped in the tram without a bean, and I—
paid her fare. It was tuppence!”
“A fool and his money”
“Cast thy tuppence on the wrnters and it
will return to you after many days.”
“Will it?” sneered my wife, cleverly com-
bining doubt and certainty in her querulous
contralto.
“Well, I’ll survive it. You should have
seen the horrified look she cast in her empty
purse.”
“Not the first time she’d done it, pro-
bably. It’s an old wheeze.”
“She gave me her name and address”-
“That’s part of the game.”
I had no idea my wife knew so much, but
I ignored the covert insinuation.
“She’d been shopping, I tell you. She
had parcels hanging on all her fingers with
strings. You’ve no idea how funny you
women look with about forty parcels—little
brown paper parcels dangling from your
elbow-length suedes.”
“Elbow-lengtlis were they—and suede too?
You must have taken a Jot of notice of
her.”
“Hang it, Mary, hadn’t I just paid tup-
pence for her?”
Mary hinted that that was probablv about
her true value.
“Oh, she had an air!” I could not allow
the aspersion to pass.
“Most of it detachable?”
Mary knew I was too much of a gentle-
man to mention tresses that I had seen
hanging on our dressing-table. I justified
her faith in me and held my peace.
“And her gown—l think it was a gown—
was a marvel of open-air embroidery.”
This was not quite exact. It was my
poetic way of stating that her gown had
holes in it. I hate to spoil a good story
for the lack of a little elaboration.
“I can’t afford elbow-lengtlis—suedes—to
go shopping in, but then I pay my own tram
fares, always.”
“It was only tuppence. I couldn’t see
the woman put off the tram for two d’.”
“Not very well. She’d have got off at the
next stop of her own accord if there hadn’t
been a softy in the compartment,”
“Now, Mary—suppose it had been you?”
“No need to suppose that. I never go
where I can’t pay my way. And if I had
really lost my purse I’d have given my name
and address to the guard, not to one of the
men passengers. Harry, eat your crusts.
We can’t afford to waste them.”
“B-b-but they are f-f-for the ch-ookie-
cliooks,” said the kid.
“Eat them! We can’t afford crusts for
fowls and tram fares for strange women,
too.”
“Oh, come off. Mary, I tell you”
“I don’t want to know anything about
her.”
“You should have seen”
“No, thank you. I see you making a fool
of yourself quite often enough at home, with-
out going into town to watch you. I sup-
pose she had tight skirts, dyed hair and a
complexion that would have carried her all
round the suburbs —in a tram?”
The simile was rather involved, but it
was unkindly meant. It hurt me to think
that my sweet wife should round on me
like that, because I had proffered financial
aid to a temporarily embarrassed female
woman. My better nature protested against
the injustice. If I knuckled down with my
family witnessing my humiliation I would
never be head of my own house again—
something too terrible to contemplate.
“On the contrary,” I explained, “she was
inclined to be sallow”
“Hoh ! a half-caste! Is that where your
taste for color carries you?”
“Not at all —nothing like that. Although
many of those Samoan or Maori women are
very attractive when you get them young
and the red on their cheeks just showing
through the brown. It is positively charm-
ing.”
My wife is a straw blonde, and believes
the Witch of Endor to have been the mother
of all brunettes. It was one to me. I came
at her again while she was taking the count.
“And their great brown eyes, soft and
tender and true, like shadows on a wood-
land pool. I don’t know anything more
beautiful. They have nice figures, too, as
a rule, unhampered by the straight fronts
of civilisation. They walk with their
legs”
“Carve the leg of mutton, please.”
Her tones were unruffled and quite matter
of fact. There was a momentary lull in the
conversation. My kiddies like to see me
carve. I’m not handy with tools.
“Daddy,” said my seenrd youngest, “I
want a tuppence for a notebook.”
“Don’t worry daddy,” cooed his mother.
“He gave his tuppence to a lady in the tram
who’d lost her purse.”
“No, my dear; not lost her purse. She
had her purse, but there was nothing in it.”
“The poor lady!—riot even tuppence.
Wasn’t it good of daddy to give her his?”
“Hang it, Mary, you talk as if I never
had but one tuppence.”
“Sometimes you talk like that yourself.
Don’t give Harry any more meat. Put your
bread on your plate, sonny, and mum ’ll put
nice brown gravy on it. Brown gravy is
good for little boys, but daddy likes brown
eyes better. I’ll have to make that joint do
to-morrow —it cost four and tuppence.”
“Well, anyhow,” I cried, “she’s going to
post it to me. Here’s her name and address.
If it doesn’t come to-morrow you can send
and get it.”
“Not me,” said Mary. “It isn’t my tup-
pence.”
I tossed the scrap of paper on the table,
and my second youngest girl grabbed it with
true feminine curiosity and read out the
name of a side street in Paddington. My
wife helped herself to a second lot of
vegetables.
“She doesn’t live in a very nice street,”
she remarked casually. “I should have
thought that a woman who never paid tram
fares could have afforded a more distinc-
tive locality.”
Wq finished the meal in silence.
During the next few days you would have
been surprised how frequently the nominal
sum of “tuppence” cropped up in our domes-
tic economy. Everything was tuppence.
Harry’s subscription to the Bondi Busters’
Baseball Club was referred to as “two tup-
pences,” although it was really fourpence.
Once I asked my wife for two penny stamps.
She held out her hand and said, “Tuppence,
please.”
Towards the end of the week the jest
began to sag. Mary seemed to have for-
gotten all about it, until one evening, just
as I was lighting my second pipe, she asked
me, quite sweetly. “Did that woman—-the
one whose tram fare. you paid—ever send
you back your tuppence?”
“Of course she did,’.’ I lied. She sent it
back the very next day.”
Oh, then this must: be another one,” and
she laid a cheap little envelope with a “More
to pay” stamp on it and two evident pennies
in it on the table before me. “There was
fourpence to pay on it.”
I handed her two threepenny-bits.
She gave me back tuppence.
D. H. SOUTER.


BACKACHE CIVES THE WARNINC.
Have you ever thought what it is tHat makes your Back Ache, your Limbs Ache and
Swell, your Ankles and Eyes Dropsical, and disturbs you so often at nigbt?
It is kidney trouble, and
the above are some of the
warnings.
D oan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills act directly on the
kidneys and urinary system.
They cleanse the kidneys
and bladder, and help
them to throw off the
poisonous urinary waste
that causes: —
Gravel, Stone, Dropsy,
Pain in the Back and Loins,
Lumbago, Rheumatism.
Read the experience of
Sydney people given here.
It will encourage you.
It
'1
w.
-
"Every Picture
Tells A Story"
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BACKACHE AND KIDNEY TROUBLE.
Two Sydney People Cured.
Mrs. Arnold, Eastfield, 16 Gordon Street, Peter-
sham, Sydney, says: “For years 1 suffered terribly
frem rheumatism, and was so bad that I was com-
pletely crippled, and had to .use crutches to get
about. All my joints were numbed with the con-
stant pain, and I could get no proper rest, day or
night. I was also troubled a lot with severe
backache, and other symptoms of kidney disorder,
such as bad headaches and irregular secretions.
No one knows what I went through, but my suffer-
ing is now a thing of the past, thanks to Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills. After trying all sorts of
kidney medicines without deriving any benefit, I
got this grand remedy, and twelve bottles com-
pletely and permanently cured me. Belief came
after taking a couple of bottles, and as I continued
with them the improvement was maintained, until
finally I was cured. I can now get about without
crutches or assistance, and feel a different woman.
My cure has been well tested, for quite twelve
years have elapsed since it was effected, and I am
still well.”
Mr. Chas. Merrill, Ivyarra, David Street, Croy-
don, Sydney, says: “For many years I was
employed in the ironworks at Eskbank, and I was
often put on filling the skips with coal. In this
work there is almost continual stooping, and after
a while I began to get nasty pains in the small ot
my back. At first I thought they might be caused
by fatigue, but they continued and grew worse.
They troubled me also a good deal at night when
in bed; as if there was something hard gripping
my kidneys. Matters looked pretty serious, so l
commenced trying different remedies, but I did nor
meet with any success until I got Doan s Back -
ache Kidney Pills. They have given me splendid
relief; I can now work with ease, and am quite
free of backache.” . u „
Fourteen years later, Mr. Merrill says: boui-
teen years is a long spell, but time has made no
difference in my cure. I am still absolutely nee
of backache, that is a good record and proves
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills aie a
genuinely good remedy.”
ñ
1
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
ń
If?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHERE the wild duck swarm and the
fish abound
I steered my hike on a summer’s day
Till I found myself at the fishing ground,
A few miles out of the town of Hay.
There were whips of game, and the luck was
fair.
1 bagged some ducks and a fish I caught
Ere I grew aware of a stranger there
Who had struck my trail through the gun’s
report.
“Young man,” he said, “are you fishing there
By grace of permit, or right or law?
Or are you a reckless trespasser
On the station lands of Alalawa?”
He waited not for a word from me,
But rattled on, and his tale in brief
Was —he’d press for the highest penalty
When he summoned me for a poaching
thief.
I whistled my dog ere I asked him straight
Did he own the fish in the stream so fair?
Were the wild fowl part of his large estate?
Was the river frontage a trespasser?
I caught the fish, and I seized a duck,
1 pushed them to him with either hand.
And 1 said: “Here, tell me, my good Lord
Muck,
Which one of them carries the station
brand?”
With little love for my language free,
As a man might guess from his stony stare,
When he learned the retriever belonged to
me,
He passed an oath he would shoot the
cur.
As he raised his shot-gun I raised mine, too
(There’d have been two shots), and I said: •
“Go slow,
If you shoot that dog, I will fire on you.
Put up your gun, or a seven you’ll throw.”
I took my place in the crowded court —
’Twas “Threatening Language” I an-
swered to.
The Wool King came and the local sport
To see them putting the poacher through.
My lawyer said, in a careless way :
“I claim, y’r Washup, no threat took
place.
‘lf you shoot, so do I,’ did defendant say.”
His Washup, puzzled, dismissed the case.
Moral :
You can poach the duck and the fish to boot,
You can hash the squatter with verbal
biff,
When you promise stoush or engage to shoot,
You can bag his with the preface
“If.”
THE MTJLGA.
BLACKBOY.
The Madness of High Society.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WITH palsied feverishness and the
gold knob of his hand-painted walk-
ing-stick he thumped the panels
of his wife’s door until the prismatic door-
mat glistened with great Hakes of electric
blue paint. „
“I have an important disclosure to make,
he bellowed gently. “And don’t be more than
45 minutes unbolting the door, or I sha
miss the 5.27.” _
With the alertness of the inert, Lady
Tubercle flung open the door, and in an
instant her husband stood before her in all
the radiance of his military bearing and uni-
form of heliotrope charmeuse, epaulets of
sky-blue poplinette, his tattooed shoulder-
blades and his reversible knees.
“Good-morning, George,’ she remarked
aloud with a composure little short of mirac-
ulous when we consider that lier husband
was a cannibal. And to herself: "lies not
only in focus, lie’s an unalterable miracle of
alternated multiplicity, a kaleidoscopic yet
ignominious consomme.’' She allowed her
gaze to meander mineingly from the mirrored
gleam of his anthracite spurs in the pond-
surfaced polish of his boot soles, to his pink
orang-outang fur wristlets, and on till, ulti-
mately, it transfixed itself in admiration on
the. cylindrical twirl of his bulbul moustache.
“Rather than cause your heart to miss a
beat.” said Lord Tubercle, carefully. "1
would almost risk doing myself an injustice,
but to apoeal to females now and then, for
change,” he continued, “is man’s prerogative,
and I would also like”
Lady Tubercle’s caratoid artery palpitated
perfunctorily. With the sex’s propensity for
solving mysteries without the aid of a six-
penny handbook, she divined that her hus-
band was about to confide in her. At last,
then, his secret was to he hers.
“Gaspard,” she gasped (Gaspard was
George's second name), striving to speak as
casually as the accelerated pace of her blood
pumps would allow, “tell me all. No matter
how preposterous your symptoms, ideas or
disclosures may happen to be, I, at least, will
always pretend to regard you leniently. What
I have always said is”
“Persephone! Wifelet! Rosebud!” ex-
claimed Lord Tubercle, ecstatically, “come
to these longing arms. And, by-the-way,
would you mind lending me seventeen-and-
six till - the Thursday after next?”
“If he loses it,” sighed Lady Tubercle as
the door banned after her consummate spouse,
“we are tree’d. That seventeen-and-six is the
last outward and visible vestige of my once
vast fortune.”
“My poor obsolete mamma,” said Arteria
walking noiselessly across the ceiling (she
was dressed in a cycling costume of gelignite,
trimmed with Tasmanian devil skin, and
lined with inflammable insulations), “I am
confident that father”
“Quite so, dear; quite so,” murmured
Ludy Tubercle, hatpinning a fly to the piano
without changing her position on the sofa.
Not a great amount this time, and yet —
but there, child; there. We must be indul-
gent to your dear papa. Nothing,” she con-
tinued, “kills people so quickly in the long
run as letting them have their own way.
But there, I mustn’t waste your time. Run
away, dear brat, and mind you don’t cycle
yourself into an aortic aneurism.”
* * * *
One o’clock, two o’clock, three o’clock. It
was almost time to feed the alligator. Lady
Tubercle, tossing in her bunk, could scarcely
restrain herself from giving vent to a loud
horrible groan when the weather-cock crowed
hysterically because the fourteenth telegraph
wire hummed prestissimo in the key of G'>
Major.
At last. Crash ! It was the front door,
and a jangle of shattered glass bore witness
that Lord Tubercle’s passing umbrella, slash
at the chandelier had got well home on it for
once, at all events. Then his devastating-
tread shook the building, and creaking groans
of anguish arose from the tortured stair-
case. Nearly always he leapt upward six
stairs at a time, but to-niglit his tread,
though heavy as a weighing-machine, lagged
dismally.
A tram rushed ; past an hour. A dog-
ruslied past the mental attitude of the cen-
tury. A cat leaned the gap which separates
Modern Thought from Ancient Superstition.
A milkman yodelled heartrendingly from the
Paddington side of the street. Yet Lady
Tubercle’s prize-winning patience continued
unrewarded by any of the noises which were
wont to characterise George’s retirement for
the night. Where were those sleep-shatter-
ing reverberations made by dropped boots,
an Indian club missing its swing and hitting
the bath, those startling outbursts of discon-
tent as Tubercle’s nude toe met the corner of
the washtstand halfway?
Able to support her suspense no longer, she
sprang out of bed. Hastily putting on her
sparrow-feather belt and whale’s-tooth neck-
let, with astonishing suddentitude she leapt
from stair to stair, and in full career floun-
dered into her husband’s bedroom.
Lord Tubercle was underneath the bed
catching apricot-colored daddy-longleg spiders
with the “Young Man’s Guide to Lower
Palestine.”
“What!” screamed Lady Tubercle, “you
mean to say you have lost?”
“Allow me to state that your information
is undeviatingly correct,” he murmured
deprecatingly, taking as he spoke a jew
lizard from his pyjama pocket in order to
give it a caseara tabloid.
Staggering for an instant unnecessarily
on the mantelpiece. Lady Tubercle jumped
for the outside window-sill, missed by a
rabbit’s breadth and fell quietly to the John-
stone-street pavement, eighteen storeys
below.
* * * *
“The rent!” muttered Lord Tubercle,
hoarsely, “the rent! It’s Monday morning.
What’s to be done? They’re too familiar
nowadays with the determinate balance sys-
tem to accept my theory of the recurrent
procrastination of the inevitable.”
“It must be paid! It must be paid!”
gwuncked the Blue Mtn. toad, in
a gargly monotone,' and the oleograph draw-
ing-room presentiment of a seascape frothed
fizzingly as the sinking liner turned a somer-
sault clean out of the frame.
“I have it,” exclaimed Arteria suddenly,
pushing the alligator away from the smell-
ing salts. “Father, my lad, we are saved.”
Lord Tubercle’s live tie unwound itself
with a pleased smile and slid noiselessly
into the monkey’s reverie.
“No questions, father,” said Arteria,
“and all will be well for you,” and taking
his eye from its socket and placing it on
the window-sill, Lord Tubercle was just in
time to see his daughter walk swiftly down
the outside of the building. The grey bird
of complete misery perched sobbing on the
picture of a Macedonian quarrelling with a
bird up a tree.
The afternoon dragged itself wearily about
the town. Sometimes it dragged itself by
the feet; sometimes by the ear. Would it
never become night? For the thirty-third
time Lord Tubercle gazed up and down the
street through the frosted window-pane.
Still no sign of Arteria.
And it was now 0.7° below zero. In the
washhouse, hanging by one foot from a
rafter, he tried playing pod-bucket with the
barometric penguin. It was not until he
had done four long-division sums in the
chest of drawers, however, that the hall
clock, having reached a quarter to five,
struck fourteen times, and in ungovernable
fury wheeled itself into the “ladies’ room.”
At last. At last. A thunderous clubbing
at the kitchen door. Hastily swallowing a
capsule Lord Tubercle was down in the
basement almost at the same instant as the
aerial lift. .
“What is this!” he brayed excitedly.
“Arteria, my buzzfaced daughter, in an
ambulance. O mildewed demons, deduct
me!” .
“Here’s the rent, father.” cawed Arteria,
clacking her ribs together like a fundamental
podargus.
“Kindly be more lucid,” said Lord T..
detaining an ambulance man to throw down
the lift-well at high tide.
“Knowest thou not the man-bird. wUh the
gnat’s pelvis then?” inquired Arteria, in the
voice of a seagull that is just about to be
bitten in half by a shark.
“Unrelated to the prestidigiteur’s niece.
I believe,” said Lord Tubercle, consulting his
shirt-cuff, “but foster-father, if I am not
mistaken, to the white toad’s beldam, and a
relation by marriage of the unconviched
therapeutist.”
“His wish to vivisect me,” continued
Arteria, “until to-day was an unfulfilled
dream, but half an hour ago it became an
accomplished fact. Alas, quaint parent! I
shall walk on the ceiling no more, yet the
trifles he scissored out of me were cheap at
seventeen-and-six.”
“Hush,” exclaimed Lord Tubercle
mysteriously, “the orchestra is about to
commence.”
LES ROBINSON.


THE
WESTINGHOUSE CROSS
ņ
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser. No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the fo/lowing claims upon
your attention —
1 — It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kerosene), and
other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the cylinder,
thus dispensing- with unreliable and inefficient
vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in con-
struction, there being no
electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that
electric generators and
centrifugal pumps may
be coupled direct.
5 No skilled labor is re-
quired, the supply of
fuel and lubricant
being all the atten-
tion necessary.
i
m i
* <?:
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghonse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents; Philips & Pike, Wellington.
£
You Considered
ER RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw, The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used la Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft, per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
f
u
ter..;
i
m
mps
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD* Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works — Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
Ql/Puil
ms
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoiine and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
ň
Quality
in Rem-
ington-UMC
automatic pistol
cartridges is based
upon unexcelled man-
ufacturing facilities and
upon exhaustive and elab-
orate tests of each kind of
automatic pistol cartridge, not
in one but in a number of pistols
for which they are made. ,
From each lot that comes through the factory,
samples are chosen at random and thoroughly tested.
Our products are guaranteed to give satisfaction. Up-
on request we will send you postpaid an interesting book-
let giving valuable information about automatic pistols and
the cartridges best adapted to them.
Remington Ann*-Union Metallic Cartridge Co., New York and London
ACCURACY is the prime consideration in acart-
Juk ridge, but in automatic pistol cartridges
accuracy must be considered in conjunction
with a proper degree of recoil. Insufficient re-
coil will not operate the pistol, and too much re-
coil will spoil the aim as well as the weapon.
Great care and long experience must,
therefore, be called into play to choose
the right kind and amount of powder,
and the proper setting of the bullet.
In choosing cartridges for your
automatic, place your trust in
manufacturers of. exper-
ience and reputation for
quality.
If you have not tried the
Remington-UMC .auto-
matic pistol cartridges,
ask your dealer for
box of them.
You will find
them in every
way satis-
factory.
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
ŉ
6d.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
may be taken with a perfect sense of security because they are entirely
free from any injurious substance and compounded only from the
purest ingredients ofvegetable origin. Beecham’s Pills are according y
quite safe for everyone. This fact should be clearly understood,
because it is of great importance that you should have confidence in the
medicine you use. Proof of the valuable properties of this popular
preparation is supplied by an immense body of opinion, for Beecham’s
Pills have been in use for years in many thousands of homes, not only
in England but across the seas. At home and abroad they are esteemed
as the best Family Medicine to keep at hand for those common ailments,
soprevalentin these days, arising from disordered action ofthe stomach,
liver & kidneys. Beecham’s Pills have a long and honourable record and
ARE A SEVENTY YEARS’ SUCCESS.
Sold everywhere in boxes* price I/I i (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
ŋ
AN ATTRACTIVE MOUSTACHE.
You can develop an attractive moustache it you use
CAPILLARINE.
This splendid preparation never fails to give good results. , ,
It does not injure the skin —cannot be detected in use —and will develop
the hair growth in double-quick time.
Hundreds have proved it —why not you?
GET A JAR TO-DAY —10/6 JAR, post free.
The C & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send ior Illustrated Price-List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654. George Street, Sydney,
Established 30 Years.
Preeminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
' should be stamped L’o*U*l*S
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
■yOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and'
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
LocUyer's
n
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of 8
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS .
Abridges'
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat "Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
[ravA
tfOkrSMK
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing ro its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetting the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
ylsk your Storekeeper for It.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
LjC
M .
Proved by Independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.


n
lajsnuqjnaM
■
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
-•twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
GOUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Can be obtained at all Cl
TO CHECK COLDS
ñ
HOT
WITH
Lemon
AT
Bedtime
if#
yiO
ń
Hardie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAfIES NARPIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
The
Importance
Of
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and . White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
NEWALL’S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
atent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
ņ
ň
Will Sand Any Shape in Any Form
Table Legs, either flat, oval, straight or curved, Drawer Fronts, Shelves for Cabinets,
Chair Legs, rounded over Toilet Frames, Veneered Posts, Chair Seats and Backs, Cross
Veneered O.G. Mouldings, Mirror Frames and Standards, Moulded Arms, Half and
Quarter Round Mouldings, or almost any piece of flat or rounded work are among the
numberless operations that may be handled economically on this efficient Belt Sander.
Its adaptability to such variety of work is largely because of the many ways it
can be “ rigged up.” These ways are illustrated and described in an interesting
folder. Call and inspect, or write for this folder.
liill •
AGENTS
m
CO.
A
/
m
m
ms 4
\
~ .
ers (B. Machinery Merchants,
arence Street, Sydney.
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage Destructor.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
Manufactured by
N. GUTHRIDGE. Ltd.
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
ŉ
