

the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. WATKINS «$& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
m
U
K)
C 3
LU
:
UJ
CL
h
2m
O
2
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTAGE BENNETT, General Manager.
•: >n _
BBSS ' -
111
■
it.fi
—a*«—
(adley’s Orient Ijotel.
RICHARDSON'S
Wine 8 Spirit
Stores,
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
Bottle, Case or
Cal lon at
Wholesale Price [3
f odfeo
‘-1
M f]
NTTHM^J
UMUMM
PINEAPPLE” HAMS & BACON
hfhfdh
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
d jmsm
J
fhfd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
7
i
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
t
«
r?
hfd
I
SUPERIOR
EVERYWAY.
m
Amiwud Panelled Rooms are Artistic.
The problem of irterior decoration is easily solved by using AMIWUD, the new, durable and artistic
panelling. AMIWUD gives a hardwood panelled effect at a fraction of the cost of hardwood. It comes
in sheets that may be easily affixed to existing walls or to the studs of new buildings. You have a choice*
of Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany or Jenisero. Hay we send you Samples and Illustrated Booklet ?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, Sydney,
Manufadurers of MALTHOID. (D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.)
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S .V. C.
KEN OF STATES
Awnirp
Baconl^^
Telegraphic Address-BACON, Murarne, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
The Hetidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
placed “ the rational water cure ” within reach of all.
STARKEYS LTB., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Red fern
The Bulletin
Yol. 35—No. 1811.]
[Thursday, October 29, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, *Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
( Postages
shown in
parentheses.)
Bruce’s Kulu and Lahoul, illus., 15/- (5d.).
Fountain’s River Amazon, illus., 12/6 (5d.).
Gaunt: A Woman in China, illus., IS/- (5(1.)
Hall: A Woman in the Antipodes, illus., 19/- (5d.).
Holt: Morocco the Piquant, illus., 7/G (3d.).
Hoskin: With Other Races, illus., 4/6 (4d.).
Treinoarne: The Ban of the Bori, illus., 25/- (sth).
Woodroffe’s Unper Reaches of the Amazon, illus.
12/6 (4d.).
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CD. PRQPTY LTD., 238 PITT STREET,
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol TootH Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing: and Preserving the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and. Germicide, but
cleanses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the teeth
can do, or will "do, without affecting the Tooth Enamel.
BECAUSE the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preseiving the teeth.
So’d at Chemists and Stores, price 1/6.
HOW TO USB THB fOWOIII.
The Red Page
The Tragi-Comedy of the
Chancellories
Six polite gentlemen sat in six Foreign
Offices in Europe, and chatted courteously
with each other, by telegraph or through the
discreet lips of their ambassadors. The six
nice gentlemen 4/ere uneasy on their chairs:
they were not quite certain in their own
minds whether there wasn’t a bomb under
each chair. But they were much too polite
to look; and in conversation with each other
they were never rude enough to mention
awkward subjects like bombs. Also, they
had sat in those chairs for years, always
with the uneasy suspicion that there was
dynamite about and nothing had hap-
pened. If they kept quite still, nicely bal-
anced on their precarious chairs, and nobody
bumped against a bomb by mistake, there
was no reason at all why they shouldn’t
have been sitting there still. But there was
one nice gentleman—at least he looked like
a gentleman—who had not only peeped
under his own chair but had carefully re-
placed the old bombs under the other chairs
with new ones, to which were attached short-
dated time-fuses. He went on casually
chatting, but his face always wore a strained,
far-away expression ; in the frequent pauses
in the conversation he seemed to be listen-
ing ; at intervals his glance strayed to his
desk calendar; and surreptitiously he
looked at his watch. He knew, of course,
that when one bomb exploded all the
•others, including the one under his own
chair, would explode. He had arranged all
that. But he believed that he had “fixed”
his own bomb when the others were too
polite to watch him. Still, he wasn’t alto-
gether sure.... Bombs, like floating mines,
were unreliable things.
The script of this great tragi-comedy has
been published. Its title is The White Booh
(Critchley Parker, C.A., Is.), and its sub-
title is Correspondence Respecting the
European CHsis. The book, of which this
is an Australian edition, deserves to be read
by every Australian.
J*
Edward Grey enters. He asks the Ger-
man Ambassador, evidently merely for the
sake of opening conversation, if he had any
news of what was going on in Vienna with
regard to Servia. The German Ambassador
replies that he has not, but he regards the
situation as “very uncomfortable.” (How
uncomfortable, and for whom, the German
Ambassador alone knows. He knows when
the Austrian bomb is timed to explode.)
Grey remarks that he hates the idea of a
war between any of the Powers, and the
German Ambassador “agrees wholeheartedly
in this sentiment.” Four days later Grey
knows, too. Austria has quietly placed a
new bomb under Servia’s chair. Grey re-
marks : “I have never seen one State address
to another independent State a document of
so formidable a character.” The trouble
about this ultimatum from Austria to Servia
is that to it is attached a time-fuse. Servia
must eat Austrian dust within 12 hours.
The despatch is so carefully drawn up that
Servia “could not swallow certain of. the
Austx-ian demands.” The German Ambas-
sador frankly admits this fact in these
words. Both Germany and Austria “neither
expect nor really desire” the surrender of
Servia. But, to their consternation, Servia,
probably at the urgent request of her big
brother Ivan, does eat dust, eats nearly all
the Austrian dust there is in Belgrade. But
Servia knows that no amount of dust will
suffice Austria. She looks under her chair
at Belgrade, and hurries away to Nish. She
is right; neither Austria, nor Germany, who
has her ear to the door and her mailed fist
at the door-handle, wants Servia to eat dust.
Consternation, therfore, when chey receive
Servia’s grovelling reply. The Servian bomb
won’t explode. AVell, then, we’ll say it has
exploded. Mobilise!
The spiked helmet remains at the Austrian
keyhole. To Britain and the other Powers she
denies that she knows anything about the
matter. Britain remarks: “It seems to me
that the Servian reply already involves the
greatest humiliation to Servia that I have
ever seen a country undergo, and it was very
disappointing to me that the reply was
treated by the Austrian Government as if it
were as unsatisfactory as a blank negative.”
Germany is merely politely i ained at Aus-
tria’s manners. Britain accepts Germany’s
assurance of innocence—Britain still be-
lieves that the German is a gentleman. But
Russia knows better. A growl comes from
Petrograd: “There is no doubt that the key
of the situation is to be found at Berlin.”
Meantime Britain is earnestly looking for
some means to keep the peace; the other
Powers as earnestly assist her, though Russia
cannot let Servia be brutally bullied. Ger-
many has the best intentions, too ; but some-
how they all seem to come a day too late.
The German Chancellor answers that “events
had marched too rapidly, and that it is
therefore too late.” Events are always
marching too rapidly for Germany, but not
quite as rapidly as her armies are'marching
to the frontiers. Still, he points out. him-
self, that “he was doing his best to support
Britain’s efforts in the cause of general
peace.”
&
Britain believes him, as is Britain’s way.
She takes his word of honor, still under the
fatuous impression that Germany is a
gentleman. “We shall all join in deep grati-
tude to his Excellency for having saved the
peace of Europe.” Germany cunningly
smiles. All the fuses spluttering, and Eng-
land still unable to see any signs of fire!
However, the British Ambassador has his
suspicions—probably he knows the German
Chancellor better than Edward Grey. Grey
cannot conceive that a German can smile,
and smile, and be a villain. Yet Britain
suggests, again and again, new means of
extinguishing the coming conflagration. All
that Germany need do is “to press the but-
ton in the interests of peace.” Germany
points out that she is pressing it hard, but
the bell won’t ring. As it happens, she has
carefully cut the wire. Events have marched
too rapidly. Meantime she would be much
obliged if Britain would kindly promise to
stand out of the way when the inevitable
explosion occurred. Here, to her surprise,
she finds that Britain had no intention of
moving one step from the danger zone.
Whereupon the German Ambassador “says
emphatically that some means must be
found of preserving the peace of Europe.”
The German Ambassador is always saying
that, and (off stage) frantically ordering
his army to mobilise. Germany asks her
Ambassador to “speak seriously” to xYus-
tria; but she had carefully chosen as Am-
bassador at Vienna a German “unlikely to
plead the cause of peace with entire sin-
cerity.” He had telegraphed to the Kaiser
the text of the Austrian ultimatum to Servia
before it was despatched—a fact that till
this moment he has carefully kept secret.
Everybody is beginning mobilisation:
everybody, except Austria and Germany, is
sincerely seeking for some path back to
peace. Germany proffers an incredible bribe
to Britain to stand by, and, in ignoble
security, see France stripped and beaten to
death. There is no need to give Britain’s
answer. And Germany advances to the
French frontier. The French Foreign Office
writes: “As you see, Germany has done it.”
Germany has done it, done what she had
long meant to do; her preparations, accord-
ing to French information, began on the
very day on which the Austrian note, to
Servia was handed in! Since then, of
course, events had marched rapidly. Mean-
time the German Chancellor asserts that he
“is pressing the button as hard as he can,
but he is not sure whether he has not gone
so far in urging moderation in Vienna that
matters have been precipitated rather than
otherwise.” A pretty comedy ! These two
countries acting all through in concert, and
Germany pretending to be peremptorily ring-
ing up Austria on the ’phone, with the
deplorable result that Austria gets quite
offended at Germany. All Britain’s fault,
therefore, for asking Germany to intervene.
See what has been the result? Austria is
annoyed. Britain’s fault. Russia’s, too.
“Telephonic communications from AHenna
had been of a promising .nature; —but Rus-
sia’s mobilisation had spoilt everything.”
Yet Russia offers to wait, even at this last
minute. But, as usual, events, and Ger-
many’s army, march too rapidly.
J*
The last scene in this tragi comedy of
civilisation shows every chair tottering,
bombs exploding everywhere, and brief ulti-
matums and mobilisation orders hurtling
through the air and hitting innocent by-
standers. The last seen of European diplo-
macy is a brief picture of Germany explain-
ing to Belgium, who hadn’t once said a
word, that events have moved so rapidly that
Germany is surprised to find her army on
Belgian soil. After that there is no further
need for diplomacy, either German or
gentlemanly.
Sydney University—Publishers
The Sydney University is still true to her
Early-Victorian attitude of shrinking coy-
ness in the presence of the public. The diffu-
sion of knowledge to any but her own inti-
mates is still beyond her mental horizon ; the
possibility that a University might become a
leavening influence to the community, that
supports her has never entered her maiden
mind; nor has she remotely conceived that
she owes a duty—already rendered by the
publications of such Universities as those of
Oxford and Cambridge—to make her stores of
knowledge known to the public. The official
publications of the Svdney University com-
prise such merely necessary works as the
annual calendar, the annual examination
manuals, some records, some reprints of
papers from various departments and labora-
tories—for private circulation only—and the
necessary library catalogues. However, there
is a large mass of publications of university
and research scholars that, were they avail-
able to the public, might be of value in
certain directions.
The Bibliographical Record of the Univer-
sity of Sydney , 1851-1913, now published by
J. le Gay Brereton, Assistant Librarian, is,
presumably, an attempt to furnish that infor-
mation. It is furnished in a way that prac-
tically bars it from any but the most perti-
nacious outside seeker after knowledge. The
compile]; sets forth, under the names of the
writers, their various publications—in this
fashion
Memorandum on the teaching of elementary mathe-
matics. Issued by the Department of Public Instruc-
tion of N.S.W., Sydney. William Annlegate Gullick,
Government Printer, 1911, Bvo. Wrapper pp. 31
(inc. 1 blank), 1 blank.
Note on a new species of Eavosites from Yass dis-
trict N S.W. I‘roc. Linn. Soc. N.S.W.. 16 May, 1912,
xxxvi. pt. 4 (No. 144) pp. 700-701, plates, xxx-.xxxi.
Certainly this is knowledge. No doubt
anybody interested in the teaching of elemen-
tary mathematics or of new species of Favo-
sites would glean information of the highest
value from these papers. The only trouble
would be to find that information.
Bibliographical Record, —no doubt a labor of
love to J. le Gay Brereton—contains no
index. Therefore, the Individual clamoring
for further knowledge of Favosites would
have to scan most of this bibliographical
record before he found the information and
then he wouldn’t find the information 1 First
the information is not classified under sub-
jects, nor even is it in alphabetical order: the
information upon Favosites is placed under
the name of the author! So the searcher
after knowledge would first have to know the
name of the person who could supply him
with the information; and probably the
name of the author would be the very thing
he was trying to find out. And, having, by
an immense expenditure of time, discovered
the coy Favosites, he would then have to
decide whether the article was likely to con-
tain anything of value to him. All the in-
formation of the contents of the publication
—all the assistance J. le Gay Brereton gives
him—is this: pp. 700-701. plates
So in the case of the teaching of elementary
mathematics, all that the young teacher of
mathematics would 1- am about this pamph-
let is that it was written by so-and so, and
that (to translate) it was octavo in form,
enclosed in a wrapper, contained 31 pages,
including one blank page, and at the end
there was another blank page. He would
learn nothing of the contents of the work, nor
whether it was worth his while getting it.
His language would probably be-blanky.
What purpose this expenditure of the time
of a poet better employed in writing Eliza-
bethan drama, and this expenditure of money
in printing this compilation, can serve is
known only to the University of Sydney.
Possibly the appearance of this pamphlet is
due to Sydney’ University’s Early-Victorian
maiden vanity. Doubtless it is designed to
please the writers of the various papers. This
"age is not alleging that this is not a good
bibliographical record : all it pathetically asks
is why such a bibliographical record is pub-
lished without an index of subjects, why it
is arranged under the names of the authors,
and why a bibliographical record is necessary
at all?
Three Plays—and the Public
“These plays,” says Arthur H. Adams in his
“induction” to Three Plays for the Australian
Stage (65.), “were written for the Australian
commercial theatre.” Their publication "is
not to be regarded as a claim for their con-
sideration as literature, even dramatic litera-
ture. They were deliberately built for the
commercial theatre, and judged by the ethics
of the theatrical manager, with some expert
assistance from the box-office, they stand or
fall.”
Only the critic who holds that everything
new must for ever conform to old standards
—the older the better ! —will be scandalised
by Adams’s very audacious modesty. The
writer who writes for money is always with
us —those who write for love seem
mostly to die young. But here is a writer
who has done fine work for Art’s sake, now
brazenly proclaiming that he is out for brass —-
in his enthusiasm he climbs on the roof of
an imaginary box-office and shouts it to the
world—an ex-amateur glorying in his pro-
fessionalism !
And why shouldn’t he? From Shake-
speare onward our playwrights have achieved
their goal of commercial success by flouting
the accepted dramatic conventions of their
time—that is by refusing to flout “thd Pub-
lic” for whose amusement they wrote: their
triumphs have proved again and again the
falsehood of staa-e verities—the commercial
wisdom of holding up to Nature, not an
idealised painting of what she once was, or
ought to be, but a mirror to catch the
momentary expression of her ever-changing
face. The playwright must ever wait: on
the caprice of the Public: none knows
better than he the truth of the much-mis-
quoted Vitq longa, ars brevis est.
Of course the artist pure and simple truly
defines the Public as everybody but himself:
to his rapt soul applause and condemnation
matter nothing, however much his human
heart may hunger for symnathy. But the
playwright who writes plays to please him-
self is false to his art, because his work is
justified, not by its appeal to his own
aesthetic sense, nor yet in its appeal to any
special Public of kindred souls, but only in
its appeal to the general Public. And that
Public, as will now be shown, is, in its
greedy, primitive way, just as keen for art
as the artist himself.
Because, while the straitost sect of Phara-
saic Art (that is to say, all the unsuccessful
artists) profess undying contempt for the
Public with their dying breaths, the very
idea of antagonism between Art and
humanity at lafae is inconceivable. The
dumb masses, pleading tor ever upwaiu with
deaf eyes, are to the highest tiowers of Art,
precisely what the earth is to the towering
tree —everything. Art can spring to being
only through the primary colors, the coarse
clay, the crude emotions of artless mortality.
And he is a fool who persists that only the
topmost flowers of Art are Art —adrift in
the blue, branchless, trunkless, roofless .
Art —the dream of beauty—is everywhere
all the time, burgeoning in its eternal spring,
from all life, all matter. The cave-man,
scrawling with his burnt stick, gave Velas-
quez his first lesson, and the strange chirp of
clams left dry on the primeval mud taught
Melba her top notes. And just as true is it
that our multitudes, blindly groping from the
depths towards beauty—through fashion-
plates, moving-pictures, gramophones and
Marie Corellis —are the poets, painters,
artists of ages to come. So Adams’ respect
for the box-office of to-day is really coupled
with the name of Art —all the unborn Art of
ages to come. From the roof of his box-office
his glad eye sees himself coupled with im-
mortality round the corner by a persistent
and interminable queue.
In forming his opinion of these plays the
critic applied to them what seemed a just'
test. He saw them played—all three on one
n'glit. It was a wild nieht outside, gusts of
wind and rain buffeting the rattle-proof win-
dows. But within, all was warmth, and
light, and easy theatre-going mood, and a
mind weary for relaxation. So he saw these
three plays through—in bed—with pleasant
intervals for smoke and refreshment. And.
lazily watching his mental stage, on which
moved the gay puppets of Adams’s mind, he
gloried in being one of the Public, whose sim-
ple tastes find good in everything that has
good in it. True, during the progress of the
plays, a carping poet-fellow fan occasional
contributor to the Red Page) began mutter-
ing bilious criticisms. But the Public told
him to “Shut up.” and placidly went on
being amused, indifferent to all the jargon of
Art and Literature.
D. O’R.
German Culture
One of the most important things that the
Allies are fighting tor has yet hardly been
recognised. The defeat of Germany will
mean that the world will be saved from Ger-
man culture. Indeed, the Kaiser has
threatened that the result of Germany’s suc-
cess would be the infliction of German cul-
ture upon the rest of helpless humanity.
Happily, at this moment an example of
German culture appears in an English trans-
lation. It is entitled The Alan of Cenius,
and is written by Hermann Tiirek (A. and
C. Black, per Sydney Book Club). This
elaborate work is prefaced by a series of
German notices, in the most eulogistic strain,
signed by names like Landtagsabgeordneter
A. Baudert, Hofrat Dr. Friedr. Dukineyer,
and Pfarrer K. Konig; and it has run
through seven German editions. The
author’s aim is evidently to define the man
of genius; and it takes him 500 pages, mostly
of metaphysics. He examines the genius of
Hamlet and of Faust with a meticulous
frenzy of quotation, surrounded by a dull
haze of metaphysics, in a'*style undignified,
redundant and dull. A few bright opinions
emerge with difficulty from the author’s
elaborate diffusiveness. He finds that the
work of the man of genius is really play:
the genius takes pleasure in his work for
itself, and lets the practical purpose fall
into the background. “Every genius is a
big child for the very reason that- lie looks
out upon The world as upon something
strange, a play. He remains a child: 'the
rest of us gro\v up and become useful citi-
zens ; but never geniuses. In fact, the
genius is such because that predominance of
the sensible system and of intellectual
activity which is natural to childhood main-
tains itself in him in an abnormal manner
throughout his whole life, and thus becomes
perennial... .It is inherent in his nature to
hold fast to what for others is only a transi-
tion period in their journey to an unhappy,
hurried, pitiful life without dismity and
worth of any nobler kind Hence the
calm and great courage of the man of genius,
his clear and unprejudiced outlook, his
extraordinary boldness combined with the
greatest coolness, his irresistible advance
along the path he has once traced out for
himself. He shatters and builds up empires
with the same composure and calmness of
mind with which the child takes his toys to
pieces and puts them together again; what
he does is done freely, it is play.... The
conqueror of the world is not really con-
cerned about the ultimate success of his
grand, bold plans and efforts; his joy is
rather in his intense, prodigious activity
itself, in the strife and struggle for high
aims. It is for him a game, sport on a
grand scale.” (Something like shelling
French cathedrals and making a battue of
helpless Belgian non-combatants.)
All very sound ; but the elaborate method
of this dull German professor, with his
prostrate worship of that second-class
genius, Goethe, with his pettifogging pro-
lixity and his myopic German outlook,
defeats the aim of his scholarship. It is
from culture of this typical German brand
that the war has happily saved us.


r aee
Anthony Horderns’ for Fashion and Economy
7//ej
at
ARTfIONY
15/0
957
m
Horderns
6831
6/H
10/11
6602
6873
15/1
04-
6425
028
22/6
19/11
Our Summer
Fashion
Portfolio
illustrates ail
that is smart
and stylish,
and is a reli=
able guide to
the prevailing
modes.
Write for a
copy, post free
on request.
Hi
mm
m
Jiiiis
u
m
Vl^fc
ii«
mm
pWa-wl
¥ 1 rex j villc im*
52/e, %3m
Melrose
84/~ Ba,x:loD6
Dieppe 57/6 s l Mak>
No. 987.—Smartly-cut Walking Skirt, new design, in Black and White Check Tweed
Suiting, panel front, finished Silk Arrows and Bone Buttons 17/9
No. 6851. — Effective Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, daintily trimmed Guipure Insertion
and Embroidered Silk, finely tucked, fastens back, long Sleeves 8/11
No. 5122. Dainty Blouse, Of White Crepe, fastens back, three-quarter Sleeves, Cuff inlet with
Valenciennes Insertion and Tucks 10/11
No. 318. — Black and White Stripe Summer-weight Tweed Skirt, with shaped
folds down centre front, double-lap seams back, Empire waist 15/6
No. 6802. — Handsome Allover Net Lace Blouse, finely tucked, turned-down, pointed
Collar of either Citron, Ivory, Emerald, Cherry or Tango Satin, three-quarter Sleeves, with dainty
Cuff of Valenciennes Lace and Satin, fastens back 15/11
No. 6425. — Effective Skirt, in good-quality White Japanese Silk, new yoke and hemstitching,
panel front, finished Crochet Buttons, Empire waist 19/11
No. 0414. Smartly-CUt Blouse, of Ivory Japanese Silk, with Amber Ball Buttons, finely
tucked, dainty Collar of Imitation Irish Crochet, bow effect at front, three-quarter Sleeves,
turned-back Cuff, finished Herringbone stitching. 19/11
No. 028. Neatly-CUt Three-piece Skirt, of Cream stripe Serge, with wide lap seam front,
new yoke back, Empire waist 22/6
No. 6873. Black Merveilleux Silk Blouse, trimmed Guipure Insertion, large Black,
Oblong Buttons, and veining turned-down American Collar, finished French knots, fastens back,
long sleeves 21/-
All sizes stocked, length 37in. to 44in., waist 22in. to 28in. ; Out sizes, 2/6 extra; Silk Fabrics,
376 extra.
The Dieppe.—An Effective Example of the Odd Coat and Skirt Costume, with
Coat of Black and White Shepherd’s Plaid, and Black Poplin Skirt. The smartly-cut, semi-sac
Magyar Coat has Collar and Cuffs of Black Poplin, and fancy Black and White Buttons, slightly
draped, well-cut Skirt 57/6
The St. Malo.—Sports Coat and Skirt, in the new Check Canvas Suiting, Coat has yoke
effect and Belt below waist, Collar trimmed striped Algerian Corded Silk, smartly-cut Skirt,
eased into strap at back, sloped and open at foot, finished fancy colored Ball Buttons. .. . 75/-
The Melrose.—New Double Basque Coat and Skirt, in the fashionable Black Taffeta
Silk, Coat smartly corded and relieved with revers and frills on Sleeves of Tango Silk,
finished at neck with Silk Ruchings edged Tango stitching, effectively draped peg-top Skirt,
open and rounded at foot 84/-
The Trouville.—Stylish Coat and Skirt, in Crepoline. The smartly-cut-away Coat lined
Japanese Silk, and trimmed Black Satin on Collar and Cuffs, is pleated into strap at back,
finished Black arrow-heads; Skirt has the new, rounded basque, giving double basque effect to
Coat. In Saxe, Navy, Brown and Black 52/6
The Buxton. — Very Smart Coat and Skirt, in Tan and White Check Suitings. The
Magyar Coat is effectively relieved with Collar and Vestette of floral Algerian Silk and lined
Japanese Silk, Strap is finished fancy Silk Buckle, well-cut Skirt, trimmed wide lap seams 67/6
Designs in the Newest tMctabnes
cj/' //brapr/z#
Jlifrttniw
Mtgnon
&/a/r/c/o
zsf-
K>rmofit
Pop your
orders in the
post and reap
the full
benefit from
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
FAMOUS
LOW
PRICES.
They save
you sovs.
i JUI/fllfOJ i-
at Anthony ffopoEms'
5T
.
7/G
%
Lucerne
Cree
Cv\l<i
Geneva 7^r>
T'he Bertha. Dainty Robe Costume, in Black Marquisette Voile; Raglan Bodice has three-
quarter set-in Sleeves, trimmed Silk Guipure Lace, Skirt effectively draped and rounded at foot;
also in all new shades 20/6
The Clothilde.—A New Style, in fine Canvas Voile, has smartly-corded yoke Bodice with
wide Sleeves, American roll Collar, shaped Cuffs and folded Belt of Satin; the Skirt has Tunic-
edged frill, and corded to correspond with Bodice; White, Black or Grey 30/-
The Adrienne.—Handsome Tunic Costume, in richly-embossed Black Silk Lace, folded
Belt and ends at side of Black Satin, finished Silk Tassels 89/6
The Mignon.—Attractive Robe Costume, of Black Pailette Silk, Bodice trimmed folds
and richly-embossed Silk Lace, wide, set-in Sleeves, Skirt daintily draped on hips 69/6
The Vermont.—Smartly-cut Coat and Skirt Costume, of Black Moire Silk, Collar
and Cuffs relieved with colored, striped Algerian Silk, Coat lined Silk, the higfi-waisted Skirt
has shaped Tunic, trimmed Buttons £4/19/6
The Geneva. — Attractive Coat and Skirt Costume, in Saxe Terry cloth, smartly-cut
Coat, Collar and Cuffs are of Ivory Silk Crepe, the Vestette is of striped, corded Algerian Silk;
well-cut Skirt with sloped, lapped seams and tuck below hips, giving double Basque effect to
Coat at back ' 79/6
The l/ucerne. Novel Coat and Skirt, in, Brocaded Sponge Crepe, the new Bolero Coat is
cut square at back, smart, high-waisted Skirt, with two frills below hips; in Black and Grey,
Blue and White 27/6
The Jean. Very Effective Robe, Of Crepe-de-Chine, has the new American Collar, with
frilling down front and above the wide, folded Belt, Skirt slightly draped into front lapped
seam Navy, Lime, Tango and Black .. . ;7. .7. 77/6
The Cecily. Smart Robe Costume, in Ivory Japanese Silk, the Raglan Blouse is trimmed
hemstitched Frilling, and has the Crossover effect which forms Sash; Skirt is slightly draped
at sides with inverted, lapped seams at back .TTV.T. 71 47/6
The Calais. — Well-tailored Assam Silk Coat and Skirt, Collar of self, relieved striped,
Algerian Silk and fancy loop Buttons, Coat eased into strap at back, high-waisted Skirt, slightly
eathered into strap at back; Natural Color only '..... 52/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


U
Rifle And Pistol Cartridges
When you buy rifle and pistol cartridges you want
them to be sure-fire and accurate, and to have the
proper speed and penetration—qualities which are all
essential for good shooting. There is nothing in the
appearance of a cartridge that indicates whether
it does or does not possess these qualities, for the
elements that make them cannot be seen. Therefore
when buying you have to rely upon reputation.
Winchester Rifle and Pistol Cartridges enjoy the
highest reputation the world over for quality and
reliability. When you buy, if you will insist upon hav-
ing Winchester make you can feel confident of getting
cartridges which are sure to give the fullest measure of
shooting satisfaction. Look for the Won the box. It is
THE MARK OF CARTRIDGES OF KNOWN
REPUTATION AND PROVED QUALITY .
It Pays to Keep Well.
If you know what good health really means you
will know that it pays to keep yourself well.
Changes of climate, occupation, diet, etc., all
tend to upset your balance, but you never need
fear any trouble if you take now and then
AKTIBiLI
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
By taking a medicine such as this occasionally, say once
or twice a week, you ensure that perfect regular working
of the bodily functions which is the basis of all good health.
When you feci out-of-sorts, “ liverish,” low-spirited, have
headache, dyspepsia, yellow skin, and no appetite, then
more than ever do you
need Cockle’s Pills the
Doctor’s medicine which
doctors recommend.
hfd
In Days Gone Oy
fashions in dress were very different to
those of to-day, but there is one fashion
that came into vogue a century ago which
still exists, and is, in fact, more popular
to-day than ever, and that is the fashion of
taking Cockle’s Pills for disorders of the
liver and digestion.
COCKLE’S PILLS
of Chemists through-
out the World.
Prices in England,
I/lJ 6* 2/9 « box
m
lask.
elf.
cure.
loner.
fills Its
C anno
Cleans j
S-egula
Brifcyh
12/eaclv
LOOK AT
ME!
m
I am a living witness to the marvellous curative
properties of
VITADATIO
Eighteen years ago I was declared absolutely
incurable by three of the finest physicians in New
Zealand. I had suffered for fourteen years from
HYDATIDS
and had tried all the ordinary advertised
medicines, doctors, and herbalists, but without
any permanent benefit, and at last underwent an
operation, _ but was then pronounced incurable.
I was advised to try VITADATIO, and as a
result of giving this now famous medicine a
consistent trial, was thoroughly cured. My cure
took place seventeen years ago, and I am still in
PERFECT HEALTH
and have introduced this great medicine through-
out the world, and marvellous cures have been
effected by Australia’s Great Remedy in all
countries.
in these enlightened times everyone knows that disease attacks the system owing
to a poor quality of the Blood, and as VITADATIO is a natural herbal blood maker
it has successfully cured :
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CHEST TROUBLES
BLADDER TROUBLES
SKIN DISEASES
Write for full particulars and testimonials ; state how you suffer, and 1 will give
you FREE ADVICE. VITADATIO is sold by Chemists and Stores.
S. A. PALMER, 439 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLIN E
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
For 42 Year:
SULPHOLINE
Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—•
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng’.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes'the effect of Sunscorch.
HIMRODS
ASTHMA POWDER
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough— you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia .
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If ybu have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSONS
EGLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Insist on “ Singleton s* —refuse all substitutes.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney


. Benger’s Food
is neither a pre-
digested food nor a
mixture of dried
milk and chemical
substances.
I
tom
It is a natural food,
differing from all others
in combining the princi-
ples of natural digestion.
These enable Benger’s
Food to be prepared
to suit individual needs;
to rest enfeebled di-
gestions, and nurse
them back to healthful
activity by regulated
stages.
With no other food
is this possible, and as
Benger s Food never over-stimulates
as do many chemical foods, no re-
action follows
its use.
*
Food
For Children,
INVALIDS and the AGED.
t ife'^ner*r t—A <-1' 1 , 1 ! 6 work of authority on
A?ed P w n £. edm ? of th, J ciren ' Invalids, and the
Wltl be sent post free on application to:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, En g.
new'York (u.s.a) <n.s.w) Pit t st
34 st Gabriel Btr«,?}. ational D J UI? * Chemical Co., Ltd.,
Si, Bt. Babrtel Street, Montreal, and Branches throughout Canada
. IB9A
mm
Pi
talc u m
BOSWID.ER
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without ch a rge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity
hfd
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
Hops” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
\sv
m
&
w
Is Where
Our Training
Affects You
DO YOU WANT
A FAT PAY
ENVELOPE ?
Are you satis-
fied with your
present position
and salary ?
Trained Men
receive Big Pay.
The I.C.S. can give you a
thorough training in your
own home and in your spare
time at reasonable cost. I.C.S
courses have been raising salaries
for over 20 years, and can help you
to raise yours. 200 courses to
choose from. Write for free prospectus.
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOLS
(COLONIAL) LTD.,
Dept. 8.Y.,
26=30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I require information concerning your method of
teaching:—
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING,
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING,
BOOK-KEEPING,
SALESMANSHIP,
ARCHITECTURE,
FARMING.
Name
Address
\ ir\
nJLun
E >
v
■
' :■>
*
*
Hk
©©ITSJLLLI
n k-mk .
-CURES DRUNKARDS-
'T -n 1 easn y e be^n
gisißlsg
o
We
Can be Developed to Normal.
matters not if you have been thin and scraggly for years even if ™
'^Ttl
Manager. Falliere Co. ' „ .
rood S nnd~ I th am WeU , ! leS ? Se(l with the results from using Flesh-
r A,., i 1 th general improvement in my condition IW whirl.
UnwLlZ mUCh im,eed * h-band »|Sre W Kth
me Vs rTeumalrsm^Jom^nv 1 1" 8 "“‘J h X? b ° the ™ d
troubles had caused me much severe suffering. y e S s> Both of these
in a S n^ne-Vnc S hlncreal^”n S my'hln* niLsuf e a not | ceably increase first of all, ending
noticeable, and my“h»» n ,mf hurt SSHS”"*- * se " < " al a«».l»Pment now become
V A “ 1 -™ neither
manent. ' since stopping the treatment, I cpnsider the results per-
Flesh Food is tot n trUly ’ MRS. H. HODGES.
use * nrf denmVuA. ho Aubi Vf Hvne .f'*!' J ts effl c?cy is beyond question, and its
and an increase in bust measurement , !?!£? Ca fl h P e P ,ned »P to six pounds a week,
relief and development to the thousand a 5 n f • a IV ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
possessing a presentable figure Tt is o nirv* irom F a il- y "’ omen have despaired of ever
aX.oV„‘S! e to % :;?;j.u s sis itwirzs s y&jg* ««
-■W)
Let us send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE.
We publish an interesting: book on the
SLrZffsr ir „;„ rr 'V s ™* ? r“™'
*° “ r Parl po ' l,ee ' A " “““""'“‘l™ ««
FAEEIERE FEESH-FOOD CO., UO3 ASH STREET. SYDNEY.
€S
hfdh
UNSHRINKABLE
fdh
UNDERWEAR
For the Children
there is no underwear so good as “Jason.”
The beautiful si’ky softness of “Jason” prevents all irri-
tatton even to the most sensitive skins. And the pure
all-Australasian-wool texture keeps the body at normal
temperature, avoiding chills. With all “Jason” wear this
guarantee is given :
Any garment that shrinks will he replaced free of cost.’
lou will find Jason" just as good for your
own personal wear as for the 'children.
,“>. son ” n l e is made in all styles and prices for men
ladies and children. Infants’ Pure White Wear in lie-ht ami
“ Jason ” Jerseys for children wear splendidly
it for you not St ° Ck JaSoa ” insist u P° n his getting
In case of difficulty write -
JASON UNDERWEARCO., Leicester, England.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.SAV
writes:—•
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco Habit bv
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since I last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all mv former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
It will give me great pleasure to recommend vour
remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi=
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
[i.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney. ’
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COM F OR TABLE to WEAR, but ono
JHAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everythin"'
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW-
VSTP Tsimru-rr n,^ E BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
Ijnfi mich of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
Ik is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO. f
349 Collina-st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitish Austral-
asian, _ 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, - and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited _ to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Antwerp (1914).
* lames through the black smoke shootin,r—
names to the skies aflame!
Hatred and crime that are nameless, and
murder without a name!
The deeds of a death-doomed nation, and the
fury of guilt and shame.
And the flames die down in the morning and
the black smoke smothers the flame.
I>lue smoke from the embers curling, and the
morning is fresh and fair;
And the dead and the charred and the
mangled, and the wounded are every-
where. J
And out on the paths of the fleeing, where the
remnants are scattered like chaff,
Ihe terrible silence of children, and a sol-
dier s hysterical laugh.
War against women and children—war
against Progress and Peace!
War against all things and nothing— when
shall Insanity cease?
Only by pride and ambition can such an In-
ferno be built,
Maddened conceit and ambition, and the fear
and the fury of Guilt.
God’s own sky is above us, and God’s own
fleecy cloud,
Like a baby’s christening mantle, or an
earthly angel’s shroud.
And God’s own stars and planets, and the
evening star that beams;
V od ’ s ?, wn “oon, at its fairest, reflected
in God s own streams.
* * * *
Death to a peaceful nation! Chaos to town
and farm,
Of a kindly and friendly people, who never
did nation harm.
Death to the young folk helpless, to the old
folk scant of breath ;
1° babies in their cradles, says the voice
of the Madman —Death !
But we press on—the Avengers—each one to
play his part,
With murder black in our memory, and mur-
der m every heart.
Each one sure and determined to win to his
goal at length,
E or we war not on peaceful burghers, but on
a Devil of strength.
There’s a vision of towns rebuilded, or fairer
towns in their stead,
And flourishing fields and gardens that are
waving above the dead.
-there s a vision of softened sorrow, and the
pride that came after the fall,
In the Monuments from All Nations to the
Bravest Nation of All.
There’s a vision of one lone Island—known
in the hooks of men,
Where there’ll be no warship guarding (for
none shall be needed then).
Down m the milder Atlantic, in days while
the.future grows fair —
Tis a vision of St. Helena, and a madman is
gibbering there.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
Moon Maid.
I think my love came from the moon
That rests upon the dusky hill.
Her lily feet in crystal shoon.
Her hair like clustered daffodil.
So fair the vision lit with gold,
White draperies that seem to swoon,
And limbs that all the graces hold —
I think my love came from the moon.
But warm is she as tender noon,
Her smile is wonderful to see;
So all the joy came from the moon
lhat night my love stole down to me.
VICTORIA.
E. D.
In at the Death.
ws.3awrwr.tsr by * *"* - *
Now when I was a small, religious lad,
Iwas a very tremendous respect I had
* °r saints and Devil and red Hell-fire-
lo save my soul was my one desire • ’
1 lan to Mass and I said my prayers,
And always took care to rush upstairs:
h or, if the Devil should come for me,
i knew somehow it was there he’d be.
1 r ? ni A 1 r nbei ' th . e mornings bleak
t « ? ,*•? ear -T Mass » with an aspect meek,
I fled like a deer to its forest goal
mu Sn^i Cll f lom the Devil “y youthful soul.
(Uh, the lone streets, littered from over-
night,
And the tapers dim in the cold, grey light!)
Low mutter of Latin and altar bells!
Now the triple peal to the rafters swells,
While the kneeling worshippers bow their
crests,
Beating upon their sorrowful breasts,
Ihiough my fault! Through my fault!”
so they sighed,
1 or Heaven was narrow; but Hell was wide.
I ve shaken it off. but I’ve shaken well
Ihose hopes of high Heaven and fears of
Hell;
But the child retains what the child has
learnt,
And into my being Belief was burnt;
h ° mad mli sometimes — and it: makes me
That in me still lives that Devil-scared lad.
And when I am dying at home in bed
Will 1 suddenly find my courage fled
And old Fear o’ the Fire come back to reign
w-i e ? sons place in my fevered brain’
Will I hear that lad, ere my breath has
ceased,
Cry: “Send for the priest! Ah, send for
the priest!”
N.S.W.
ROMAN.


One
of
“ Watson ”
Economical
Store
“ Switchon ”
Fans.
r
.V 4
4
Vt
w
r. -
*S&b3*
COOL STORES, HOTEL GUEST BOOMS, etc.,
AT A COST FROM .id, PER HOUR,
for current. “Switehon" Electric Fans cool hot
pillows and bring restful sleep ; they refresh you
for work, rest or play. Don’t suffer and swelter
when relief is to be had so cheaply. Put a
“Switehon” Fan wherever you want the cool
freshness of a sweeping air current to drive out
close air—to blow awav flies —to change any room
from a place of stifling heat to one that is coor
and comfortable. See the new “Switehon” Models;
prices begin at 50/-. Breeze can be regulated to
blow up or down.
W. G. WATSON 8 CO. Ltd..
Suppliers of Everything
Electrical,
279 Clarence Street;
426-430 Rent Street, Sydney
(Just round from the Town Hall).
Electric Current for Lighting and Cooking in
i! 1 'i
. \ l
8 1
« *: I
I I
a B
m.
Country Homes Costs
2><d. an hour.
With a “Lister-Bruston” Auto-
matic Electric Lighting bet
there is no fuss, danger or trouble, the
Plant generates its own Current, and the
Engine and Dynamo start themselves as
soon as the lights are switched on.
These Plants only occupy a floor space of
9x4 feet, and are delivered ready lor
work. Let us send YOU the full par-
tmiilars of how YOU can have Electric
Light in YOUR Country Home, without
waiting for the local Council to erect a
Power Station. There are over 1000
Sets in use now.
AGENTS:
N C w vv. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC -SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
OUEENSLAND-WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Br.sbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
'
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES —Raven
Bla c k, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn.
Price 3/6, posted
3/11. Directions with
every bottle.
MADAME EETGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcatle, Collins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Suppt.y—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders'
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Brunches in all parts of the world.
m.
i
KfiWE
MM
JM
fin
)L-
S=i’:£
;/ ' I
h-
f|r
Her First Dinner
Naturally, she was a litne bit nervous about cooking a joint or some specia
made-up dish for their first dinner. . . ,
Besides, Tom had said. “Don’t wear yourself out cooking and going to a o
of trouble for me, dear.”
Acting on the suggestion she procured a tin of
"REX" Pork and Beans
and Beans. , ~ .
Her choice was well made. For no home or hotel chef can produce anything
to equal “Rex” Pork and Beans.
Thev are not only a meal, "but a delicacy. They come to you ready for serving
—all vou have to do is to warm them up by immersing the tin in hot water.
Buy a can of “Rex” Pork and Beans to try them. All grocers sell Rex
Brand products.
OTHER
“REX” CANNED DELICACIES ARE
Ham Pate, Jib. tins,
Veal anti Tongue Pate, Jib. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork Sausages, 11b. tins,
Pork and Beans, Ijlb. tins,
Pigs’ Beet, in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, in decor
ated tins,
and
“Bex” Brand Card, for Cooking Par
poses, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS,
procurable at all Grocers and
Small-goods shops and carts in
Brisbane and District and Bendigo
and District only:—
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausage.
Foggitt, Jones (&L Co. Ltd.
Curers of “Rex’* Hams and Bacon,
Packers of st ßex” Pure Food Products,
Makers of £t ßex ,f Small Goods•
The Wise Old Gardener Knows
nssi
UK
■
i«W» 2*
S£\ vTi,. *»
that he
unless
will not get the best results
the garden gets plenty o
water with a rubber hose.
He has already ordered a length of
if
Watershed
9 9
RED rubber
AUSTRALIAN-MADE HOSE
because he knows there is not a
better one to be obtained.
Order your length to-day.
Mude in 60ft. coils, but cut to any
length.
oo
-in. x 3-ply .
30ft., complete with fittings
60ft., complete with fittings
-/9 ft.
24/6
45/9
oo
tin. x 3-ply ••• • •: • '
r 30ft., complete with fittings
r 60ft., complete with fittings
1/- ft.
32/-
60/9
Carriage Extra.
Send for a copy of our new Hose List, containing full particulars of all garden hose
and fittings.
If your storekeeper does not stock
“Watershed” Hose, send your order direct to us.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Australian Manufacturers of All Rubber Goods,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
OSTER
When it comes to Threading Tubes
there is a special tool to fit your paiticular use
in the Oster line. 20 years of specialisation
guarantees their quality—an Oster means
clean threads quickly cut.
fdh
FOR SALE BY LEADING DEALERS
IN ALL CITIES.
The Oster Mfg\ Co.,
Cleveland, 0., U.S.A.
[i
OSTER
Wr%W
m
QtLM
Ir\compek.i'ek.t>le


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 35. IS o. |Bll.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1914.
I’lilCK Cl).
LIFE’S LITTLE IRONIES.
The International Peace Conference at the Hague has been postponed until 1916.—News item.
Member of European Peace Society explaining that he cannot keep his appointment until he has completed some very urgent business.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jot a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post para.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to me
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stumped letters are liable to be re-
iU*The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number rs hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the f° rm
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
miitECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which ' has to be re-drawn — will . be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
■applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., I ancouver,
iB.C.,' G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
■San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
■Cal ; ' Bay City Nervs Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 58a
:29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
„Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
KGYrT. —Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — lV. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street, Fort
■Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
■land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz„ id.: United Kingdom All Sea
/Route, 16oz„ Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
ito 10oz., Sid.; lOoz. to lZoz., 3d.; elsewhere, 40z.,
rid., and id~. each additional Soz.
ffiuTtßixZZeZzfli.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1914.
THE FINANCES OF THE HOLMAN
(OR HAROLD SKIMPOLE) GOV-
ERNMENT.
The Treasurer of New South WAles has
•delivered his Budget, and a sorry affair it
is. Holman is the Harold Skimpole of
politics, and he shares that gushing child’s
’•irresponsibility and lack of knowledge re
ithe value of other people's money. About
;the value and importance of his own salary
he perhaps knows as much as anybody else.
The basis of his tale was a wail about the
war, and about the need to brace up in
this time of stress, and levy still another
heap of new taxes. The head of the
Harold Skimpole Ministry was very sorry
for himself because of the war, though why
he should have wept so bitterly on his own
shoulder it is hard to say. The State
revenue doesn’t pay for a single soldier or
even for a horse marine. The population
is increasing, and the Australian Govern-
ment, despite the burden of its war charges
and the decrease of its customs revenue, still
pays the regular annual subsidy of 255. per
inhabitant. The crops don’t promise to be
of the best, but they promise to be much
better than they were in 1903, when the
wheat yield was almost less than nothing
per acre. And in 1903 a State Govern-
ment which put on much fewer pretensions
of political virtue than the present affair,
and which borrowed about one-third the
amount that Holman borrows, and which
enjoyed not much more than half his
revenue, pulled through the year with about
as much shortage as Holman has been
known to make in a month. The output of
gold and silver and tin is as valuable as
ever. Certainly Broken Hill has suffered a
slump, solely by reason of its reliance on
German buyers j but the South Australian
railways have stood most of the loss,
because Broken Hill is geographically a part
of South Australia, and only belongs to
New South Wales in an accidental sort of
way. Nothing has really happened in the
Ma State on account of the war to justify
Holman in shedding bitter tears of self-pity
down his own back, though the war comes
in handy as a disguise for his own
Incapacity. _
It is announced that the difficulty of
raising loans in London, save at an
exorbitant price, is one of the troubles ot
the moment. The N.S.W. Government' got
into office on its solemn promise to reduce
the loan expenditure, which was then about
£3,000,000 a year. Whereupon, having no
regard at all for its promise, it bumped the
said expenditure up to £8,500,000 a year;
and is now blewing Cohen’s lOU to the
extent of fully £10,000,000 a year. Naturally
such a Government is in difficulties, though
if it had possessed a shred of political honor
it wouldn’t be in difficulties. The habit of
leading an easy, prosperous life on huge
borrowings has become rhronic. Holman
and co. have no idea 1 ow to do without
loans, and apparently loans are to be
obtained, even if they cost 10 per cent.
What it will cost the State to renew the
£4,000,000 or so which falls due next year,
and the £13,000,000 which falls due in 1918
and the £11,000,000 which falls due in 1919
are matters for the future. The Premier-
Treasurer announces that it will
necessary to cease expending borrowed funds
on non-productive works. _ According to his
political programme he is pledged, as a
decent and reliable politician, to spend no
loan money on non-productive works, either
in war-time or in any other time, which fact
lends a streak of humor to his tardy
repentance. Incidentally the payments to
the alleged sinking fund are reduced to
£5BOO a year. This fund is supposed to be
in belated pursuit of a debt which amounts
to about £112,000,000, and which is growing
at the rate of £8.000,000 to £10,000,000 per
year. The N.S.W. Labor party undertook
to attach a sinking fund to the entire public
debt. But even the humble amount of
£300.000 or £400,000 per annum, which the
old Liberal push subscribed to make the
liabilities look a trifle less dreadful (in days
when the liabilities were a great deal
smaller) has been practically all annexed.
It is a pity that the £5BOO “in reduction of
debt” isn’t* annexed also and an end put to
the farce. This pretence of sending a dead
twopence out in pursuit of a very live
million pounds is neither useful nor
amusing. #
The Holman Government, as already
hinted, scattered £8,500,000 of loan funds
during the past financial year. Most of this
money was borrowed abroad, at steadily in-
creasing rates of interest. It represented the
greatest effort on the State’s record in the
way of selling its children into bondage to
the capitalist, and chaining them to the
wheels of the car of Private Enterprise. For
every penny that was spent on State brick-
works, and State joinery establishments, and
State blue-metal quarries and State cottages,
on the pretence of releasing the local worker
from the burden of the private landlord and
private employer in Australia, that same
worker has been pawned to the extent of 10s.
or £1 to the private landlord and private
employer at the other end of the world.
Still, this loan money was supposed to
develop the great natural resources of the
community. It was supposed to pay its way,
even if it didn’t show a net profit. The
figures which are supplied by the unblush-
ing political adventurer at the head of affairs
are disappointing in this respect. It is esti-
mated that, largely by reason of increases in
railway and tramway charges, the revenue
from the N.S.W. Government’s business
undertakings” for, the present financial year
will exceed those of last financial year by
£495 349. On the other side of the balance-
sheet it is estimated that the working ex-
penses will be £328,835 more, and the in-
terest on the money borrowed for ‘ business
undertakings” £382,350 more this year than
last. The net result is that the income will
increase by £495,349. and the outgoings by
£711,185. A simple sum in addition and sub-
traction suggests a loss of well over
£200,000, to say nothing of the loss of selt-
reliance and self-respect, and the acquisition
of a habit of grovelling to the extraneous
capitalist and Private Enterprise person. And
after all this expenditure on new railways
and duplications the N.S.W. Government has
been driven to intimate to a certain sheep-
raiser named Bacon —which is a poor sort
of name for anybody to possess—that it can t
supply trucks for the removal of his live-
stock for four months. Yet Bacon offers the
usual remuneration for the service. No
doubt mariv other sheep-raisers received simi-
lar intimations, but Bacon made a disturb-
ance, and so he came into the limelight. The
fixed resolve of the Holman Government to
drag all the trade of N.S.W. to Sydney,
regardless of distance and cost, is apparently
responsible. Being pledged to a policy of
decentralisation, and having a habit of doing
nothing that is in its policy and everything
that isn’t in its policy, it naturally drags
everything to Sydney. So the lines are more
congested than usual. On the whole, it
seems fortunate that the harvest is a poor
one. What gain is there in a good harvest
if the wheat has to rot by the wayside,
because the adjacent harbors must not be
made available for exports? By the open-
ing of them some of Premier Holman’s
friends, the Sydney landlords and merchants
and Freetrade* papers, might be annoyed.
* * * *
These are understood to be hard times and
days of economy. So the Holman Govern-
ment, which has no war expenditure of any
kind to meet, proposes to spend, this financial
year, £1,060,544 in excess of last year’s ex-
penditure. It estimates that, despite all its
increased taxes and all the loan money it
employed to develop the boundless natural
resources of the country, the revenue will
only increase, under present conditions, by
£719,448. A man who anticipates £719,448
of extra revenue in spite of the biggest up-
heaval on record, has no reason to complain
of anything save his own incapacity, but
Holman falls into a condition of melan-
choly all the same. He proposes more taxes,
and they are inevitable under the circum-
stances. The trouble is that all the taxes
on earth would hardly maintain Holman’s
financial ship on an even keel. If he can, by
insane loan expenditure, keep on good terms
with the labor unions on one hand, and the
landlords and importers of Sydney on the
other, his billet is secure. It is now costing
the people of N.S.W. between £8,000,000 and
£10,000,000 per annum of unprofitable loans
to keep Holman’s billet secure. Yet wiser
politicians than Holman could be bought for
£lOO.
IMPORTS AND SUNDRIES —MOSTLY
SUNDRIES.
September was not a first-class month for
trade, especially in N.S.W., which has the
craze for commerce and loans more tuny
developed than any of its neighbors, lhese
were the figures :
N.S.W. Oversea Trade for September.
Imports • • £2,088,007
One month’s interest due on public
and private foreign liabilities
(on a low estimate) •• 500,000
£2,588,007
Exports to pay for these .. ... 1,824,899
Shortage £763,108
So the shortage goes on at the rate of
£9,000,000 or more per annum, which has to
be met out of foreign loans, at any price
the foreign lender cares to insist upon,
unless the Ma State is to be gradually
denuded of coin, and is ultimately to burst-
And though September was a little worse
than some other months it was better than
the average. This was the record from
January 1 to September 30, 1914 :
N.S.W. Oversea Trade for Nine Months.
Imports .. .. .. ..£24,884,307
Exports .. .. .. •• 20,967,893
Shortage on trade alone .. .. £3,916,414
Interest on foreign liabilities (say, on
a low estimate). . . . .. 4,500,000
Total shortage (nine months) .. £8,416,414
* * * *
N.S.W., in its combined Federal and State
capacities, is the main support throughout
Australia of high wages, low tariff and
large borrowing. It believes in giving the
worker 12s. a day, and bidding him com-
pete with a foreign worker at ss. a day,
and providing a tariff equal to Is. per day
to equalise things. Presently its people are
unemployed, because they can’t hold their
own against the importer on these terms,
and the Cornstalk Land is being drained of
money to pay for imported goods made at ss.
a day. Then it is time to borrow many more
millions in England, and to build a new
railway out in the wilderness, and thus fur-
nish employment. And when the railway is
finished the sheep or wheat man settles
alongside it and starts to grow things. But
the only port he is allowed to use is Sydney,
and the crush at the dbor of that one port
is very serious; so he may be told in October
to be darned grateful if he gets trucks by
February to carry away his produce. The
produce being pretty stale or dead or tired
by February, it naturally follows that the
line doesn’t pay—the line which was built
with the money that was borrowed to sup-
port the people who couldn’t get work at
making boots, because it is the gospel of a
high-wage country to import low-wage boots.
But the debt remains, and the . interest
remains, and a bigger loan is required next
year to pay the interest, and to pay for
more imported low-wage boots, and to keep
an increased population employed at build-
ing unprofitable railways, leading by more and
more congested ways to the city which
stands every year for a larger proportion of
the population.
The N.S.W. Government has explained
that its “business undertakings”—which are
mostly railways—are paying even worse than
usual by reason of the increased interest bill.
Also, since the war broke out, 3000 extra
men have been put on to build the track
which pays worse than usual, and they are to
receive their wages out of the loan which is
bigger and harder to get and more costly
than usual. Meanwhile, in the single month
of September, N.S.W., as already mentioned,
incurred about £760,000 of new liabilities, in
order that it might deprive its citizmis of
plain, honest employment. Also, in order
that it might supply work to badly-remuner-
ated aliens and give its financial support —
its borrowed financial support —to the great
German population which shouts “Hoch der
Kaiser” in Chicago. And certain Labor
unions—to say nothing of ex-Laborite
Beeby —propound schemes for flooding the
country with hundredweights of paper
money in excess of the present demand
paper money which would be of no value, as
payment either for foreign imports or foreign
interest bills. There is a pitiable element
about this craving to sacrifice. a great State
for the sake of the One Big City Congestion
policy, and the scheme of selling our children
into bondage to foreign Private Enterprise,
and the great device of keeping our people
idle that foreign folk may be employed for
the ultimate profit of the foreign employer,
or landlord or trust. Quite frequently he is
a trust.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Shadow of God.
_
A very poor old rumor, a tattered rumor
without hat or boots, has been resurrected to
the effect that the blessed Commander of the
Faithful—in other words, the aged and un-
lettered person at Constantinople—may join
with Germany, and hang out the sacred
banner of the Prophet, and rouse the
Mohammedans of India, Egypt, Tunis,
Algeria, Turkestan, etc., to bite the Allies in
the rear. It is a strangely persistent and con-
tinuous ghost—that tale about how the Sul-
tan will one dav get up in a spiritual sense
and break- things. He has just as much
chance as the Pope would have of rousing
the Roman Catholics of Chili to run their
heads against Germany for the sake of the
vestments and the mass, or the Archbishop
Chu?ch nt o? b the y Un < ited a Sta o tes t ifbattie'array!
Sultans have been smitten hard at different
times by great Mohammedan
Britain and Ru , y Nobody
attempted seriousbv as Com
takes th ® f S />!p VnThftil and Caliph and
“ a f r ,„fr n Accordine to*ancient*legend
Shadow 01 vtOD. According to ancient icgeuu
the real Caliph, with the whole blessing of
GOD resting upon hi:m must be an
a descendant of the ad tg aa aa f
«ie supply of direct f ifX
(even in those days great
after the Prophet (even n - y g
rowßtappened
is quite Xr, W fnlSwed some 50 secOTffi?a?e
four). Then followed some 5U
JK I "the W Arrtribf y to whicl the Prophet
belonged. Finally a bitter Turk from Cen
tral Asia bailed up the feeble old en “ g
who had the last thin.£¥*l «nd took his
Commander of the Faithful, and took ni
dignity and his pedigree from bl fV * a me a
much the same as it an el ®P^ nt of
prize cow by the simple
on the real prize cow and obliterating
Never once have the Sultans dared to expose
the hollowness of their position by calling
Mohammedan world to arms, tottering
excrescence at Constantinople is a «>nvemen
figurehead on small occasions, and if he urged
all his co-religionists to rise, a Moslem in
Tunis might make the xact an excuse
stealing a hen from a Frenchman s hac
yard, or a Moslem in India might go out and
hit a Hindu in the eye. But nobody in these
remote parts is likely to die m a b " . .
religious fervor on behalf of the dubimis
creature at old Byzantium. For something
like 250 years the Sultans have been the
illegitimate sens of slaves, and Wltb tbe
immorality, incapacity, bogus pretensions to
the Caliphate, and a dark susmcion that they
have lost the genuine banner of the 1 ropnet
their religious claims are at a low eon.
An Australian Contribution to the
Military Strength of Germany.
The German Chancellor gave the following
message to the world the other day .
As a result of the blockade instituted by Britain,
we shall go short of tea and cotlee V e D len t y
but of bread, meat and sugar we shall h *Y® pie “
next harvest. To be sure, we should, like som
copper. . . .
A nod is as good as an entire oration, l
certain circumstances; and it the K | ise
chief adviser had told the Lmted States
cargo-runners the truth, that without im-
ported copper Germany cannot go on fighting
for very long, he would have stood to gain
no more than he will from the nnld hint he
threw out. According to Aeon HibschS
figures the United States produced 54b,dUU
metric tons of copper in 1913, as against
Germany’s 30,500 tons. Germany stands
low on the list of
below Japan and Australia and Spain and
Mexico and Chili. But copper is as essen-
tial in the construction of its war material
as steel itself. Again, according to Hibsch :
The state of European copper consumption (in
1913) was excellent, partly owing to military re-
quirements, partly because of the continued expansion
of the electrical industry. Germany again took first
place, and whereas there is no important change to
chronicle in the consumption of other countries, that
of Germany again shows an increase.
Australia stands fifth in the list of the
world’s copper producers. The Port Kembla
works (N.S.W.) turn out some of the purest
variety of the metal on earth, of a quality
specially valuable in the electrical trade.
But the only use that this dementedly short-
sighted country has ever made of its great
natural gift has been to send it away to pay
interest on loans —loans that have come here
largely in the form of German motor-cars,
toys, woollens, lager beer, pianos and so
forth. Germany has taken a very big part
of Australia’s copper in direct shipments,
and the bulk of the rest of it has probably
gone to Germany via the United States the
land which Germany now looks to for further
copper supplies. This country, _ there-
fore, may get what comfort it can
from the reflection that, at the > same
time that it was foregoing an indus-
try which would have profited it vastly
in a national sense, it has been supplying
the enemy with material for (say) the driv-
ing-bands of the shells which are being used
against the Allies —and which will be em-
ployed shortly against Australia’s own troops.
The point of the whole ghastly joke is, of
course, that the Commonwealth electors have
returned Parliament after Parliament pledged
to effective Protection.
Horsemasters —but Where Are the
Horses?
The work that is being done at the Military
Dephts should convince the Government of
at least two things—(l) the men to control
National Horse-breeding farms are avail-
able on the spot; and (2) it is a calamity
that the Fisher Government’s haras
scheme was turned down by Joseph Cook
and his colleagues when they assumed office.
About 5000 horses have already been con-
signed to the Liverpool depot, near Sydney,
and dealt with, and more are still coming
in. The loss through accident and sickness
has been practically nil, though strangles,
which is about as infectious a trouble as
the horse-master has to cope with, broke out
at an early stage. It was got under by the
“Our” God of Battles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This Synod, believing the Empire’s cause to be the
cause of Christ, commends the officers and men of
the Australian Imperial Expeditionary Forces to the
care of Him who alone has builded and preserved
the British Empire. It prays our Father, God, to
give each officer and man the ever-present conscious-
ness that the risen Lord is his Comrade, and his
Friend, and to prosper their arms exceeding abun-
dantly in the day of battle.
—Diocesan Synod resolution.
Ours is the cause of Christ the Sacrifice!
Only one God of Battles lives to-day!
All other gods are perjuries and lies
But He who made the British Empire stay!
The “Risen Lord’’ is comrade but of us;
He turned all others down on Calvary.
He loathed St. Francis, and he hated Huss,
And only died that Britain might be free.
St. Michael and all angels, hear them bleat,
The little synods and the bishops small:
“0 Lord, we fall so humbly at Thy feet,
Give not Thy weather eye to them at all.
Don’t mind the rival shops that pray to
Thee,
Give not Thy pity to the foeman’s corse,
Thou madest the Empire mistress of the
sea —
Bless but our Expeditionary Force. ’
Oh, trust not, brothers and Australian men,
To these their prayers; but fill the maga-
zine,
And where the foe shoots one of thee, shoot
ten
Of them, and let their blood be plainly seen.
But do not think you murder for pure love,
And offer not the “Risen Lord” the lies
That for His Sake you sent the foe Above,
And killed in memory of Christ’s sacrifice.
VICTOBIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.


prompt isolation and treatment of the beasts
affected. The prices offered by the Govern-
ment for light horses ranged from £lo to
£lB, and rather more was paid for heavier
sorts. The material was not of the best, on
the whole, as The Bulletin has already
remarked; but the reason was not so much
that the prices weren’t big enough as that
the desired material simply wasn’t available.
For many years this paper has proclaimed
the insanity of allowing Australia’s remount
supply to become depleted. Breeders. have,
however, been suffered to go on shipping
away the best of the hunter class of animals
to any foreign country that would pay for
them. Nothing matters vitally while the
world is at peace. It is a golden period
from the standpoint of Freetrade, anti-
defence, the international brotherhood busi-
ness and all such foolishnesses. But with
the arrival of war values alter. To Aus-
tralia, to-day, it would be worth five times
the profits that have been earned from the
horse-exporting trade to possess in the
Commonwealth so much as half the good
stock that has left it of recent years. The
authorities are doing extraordinarily well in
collecting and handling the material that is
available. But at the best that material
is neither numerous enough nor good
enough, although the local demand is only
just beginning. To escape worse trouble
this country must have what every other
country with an army possesses—a supply
of State-owned farms where horses of a
military type may be systematically bred.
And tiie success of the present Military
Depots demonstrates, if demonstration were
needed, that Australians are competent to
run such farms on the biggest scale. More-
over, no costly plant is required. A stretch
of at present unoccupied country in the
Northern Territory would be the ideal place
for a start.
«,
A Policy Widely Approved but Never
Followed.
The S. M. Herald has reviewed at some
length a book called “The Problem of the
Nations,” by A. Corbett-Smitii. An extract:
The public is only beginning to realise that sexual
disease and its sequelae claim more victims, and are
responsible for more suffering (often quite un-
merited), and for more racial degeneration than any
other form of disease. Mr. Corbett-Smith, for the
most part, eschews statistics, but he gives sufficient
to show the appalling extent of its ravages. Worst
of all, it does not discriminate. It takes its toll of
the innocent, even of the unborn generations, and
when so many little lives have been irretrievably
marred by its dreadful effects it is idle to make
“morality” the pretext for further silence. The
author’s remedy is simple. He holds .that if the
general public were only educated in the matter,
this blot upon our civilisation would disappear, and
his view is surely a sound one.
And the Herald condemns itself for a hum-
bug by not attempting to educate the public.
It never calls the disease by name; and
nowhere does it instruct its readers how to
avoid the scourge or mitigate its ravages.
When the small-pox epidemic came to Syd-
ney the Herald played a helpful part. The
people were told all about small-pox. They
were instructed in the best way to avoid it.
Patients were warned of the hideous conse-
quences of concealing their affliction from
the authorities. Secret sufferers who
happened to be discovered were spoken to
like public enemies and pariahs. This
vigorous campaign helped powerfully to kill
the epidemic. Nothing checks the dissemi-
nation of disease more than the dissemi-
nation of knowledge about it. But that is
only half the battle. The best proof that
education will never of itself remove what
the Herald calls “this blot on our civilisa-
tion” is to be found in the fact that doctors
themselves are frequent sufferers from loco-
motor ataxia, G.P.I. and other diseases of
syphilitic origin. The Herald could have
written for years on the horrors of small-
pox, but had no other measures been' taken
the unpleasantness would still be raging.
The complementary action was compulsory
notification and segregation. And nothing
can wipe out syphilis but the same policy
—the policy which, if it has not yet killed,
has at least controlled, small-pox, which
has wiped out the plague entirely, and has
made diphtheria and typhoid things of com-
paratively small account. *
*
The Prussian.
Dear Bulletin, —Why has the Prussian
hog hogged so much as he has hogged during
this war? The problem ought to be offered
by a penny weekly as a conundrum with a
nickel watch for a prize. I can only assume
that he has got his disease of empire so
badly that he regards any opposition offered
to him as a sin against high Heaven, or else
that he is mad, or else that he is built that
way. When he started the war he may
possibly have imagined that his opponents
were the sort of folk who could be cowed by
atrocities, and so he practised rape, arson,
torture, massacre and miscellaneous
vandalism on a calculated plan. But
presently it became evident to all the world
that Frenchmen and Belgians and Russians
were merely roused to extra fury by these
doings. They smote harder by way of
reprisal. After that revelation Prussian
hoggism became unintelligible. If the
Kaiser’s hosts can, by any possibility, win,
they will annex a desert. If they lose they
will have to retreat in a very hungry
condition through a desert of their own
making. And now the Allies have
hardened their hearts, like Pharaoh of
Exodus. They must be firmly resolved to add
all the beer the enemy has spilt, all the
palaces and libraries and museums and
cathedrals and picture galleries he has
wantonly destroyed, all the unfortified towns
he has burned and all the women he has
outraged—even all the carpets on which he
has thrown needless bones and grease—to
the indemnity. Supposing the invaders
come out on top after all, and seize Rheims
and Louvain, they will only acquire cinders.
.Supposing they come out underneath they
will have to liquidate the bill for Rheims
and Louvain with compound interest added.
There will be no friendly, casual peace-
making as there was after Sebastopol.
Europe has been driven to the conviction
that there can be no real tranquillity until
Prussia is deprived of its control over
Germany, and the Hotienzollerns are
dethroned. If the wonderful Kaiser hangs
himself by the neck to the chandelier
in the banqueting hall at the palace
of Potsdam the settlement will be all
the easier. Prussian hoggism has put this
war in a category by itself so far as modern
wars among allegedly Christian races go.
The retiring Prussians have ashes in front
of them as they back out, and utter ruin
behind.—Yours in anger. Solomon
Malaprop.
The Man Who Saw To-inorrow.
“O. C. Cabot” introduces a prophet:—
Hats off to L. J. Maxse, editor of the National
Review ! The man who looked ahead, and kept on
looking ahead, and was rot afraid to tell the world
of what, he could see. Maxse, year in and year out,
warned his countrymen of the European upheaval
that is now convulsing the world. He almost fore-
told the year— his estimate was 1915, now not so
very far away. He foretold the calamity, in direct
and emphatic language, with a precision that is little
short of marvellous. Every month since 1907 Maxse
drew attention to the aim and end of Germany’s
Welt politik campaign—the vast threefold object of
commercial, financial and military (which, of course,
implies naval) supremacy. For the last 80 months
the National Review always contained one or more
striking and pregnant articles on the German Menace
by men like Field-Marshal Earl Roberts, Earl Percy,
Admiral Charles Beresford, Professor Courthope,
John Leyland, Arnold White, Percival Hislam,
the late Lord Wolseley and other distinguished pub-
licists. These articles, in most instances, were sought
for by Maxse, who himself contributed freely, in
addition to writing innumerable “Episodes of the
Month” upon the all-important topic. It is not so
much the fact that Maxse felt the trouble approach-
ing that merits a general uplifting of headwear, as
the gloriously consistent and persistent and indomit-
able way in which the editor of the National Review
kept at it. Even Holman’s deathless aching for loans
falls into Class 111. compared with Maxse’s determin-
ation to expose German designs ; and, whereas — till
last month — -Holman received wreaths and cheers and
gjlt-edged encomiums from the fatuous throng, Maxse
had to stand to his guns amid whirlwinds of enven-
omed abuse, recrimination, fiat red, scorn, contumely
and loud jeers. (Just here I might add that Maxse
invariably returned these Greek gifts with aplomb,
eclat, elan and heavy interest.) For seven solid years
L.J.M. persevered. He not only outlined, or boldly
published other men’s outlines of, the vast Teuton
plans, but as a sort of pastime, he took his gun and
tomahawk on “off” days and pursued and scalped
the Peace-at-any-Pricers, the Freetrade Radicals, the
“■Cocoa Press” of the Fry, Rowntree and Cadbury
clans, the “Chemical Press” of the Brunner-Mond pro-
German crowd (headed by the Westminster
Gazette), and actually stampeded the “Mandarins”
of hie own (the Unionist) party when they (or some
of them) joined in denouncing him and his scarify-
ing magazine for “hurting the feelings” of the
pachydermatous Prussians! It was Maxse, too, who
headed the famous “8.M.G.” movement; who caused
it to attain success. Balfour was too amiable and
too prone to mildly acquiesce in everything, said or
hinted, Maxse ; therefore “B.M.G.”— Balfour Must
Go! And Balfour went; and in his place came &
hard-bitten Protectionist ironmaster of Scottish
extraction who wasn’t anxious to be amiable to Ger-
many, or Freetrade, or cocoa millionaires, or anybody,
outside the Unionist party. For his audacious hand-
ling of the brilliant, gentlemanly, but too amiable
Arthur Balfour, L. J. Maxse was howled down in
public two or three years ago, when he essayed to
explain his reasons to the Unionists’ Convention. But
he remained as undaunted as ever, and, after print-
ing in his Review the remarks he was denied utter-
ance at the Convention, he proceeded to lay on
harder than ever. And he fought—and fights—for
great causes. With J. L. Garvin (of the Observer
and the Pall Mall Gazette), Maxse is the chief
press protagonist of a Tariff for Britain; he stands
for “Clean Government and no Marconi-ism,” which
latter smellful business he was chiefly instrumental in
exposing and, it may be hoped, ending. Maxse in
politics is a High Tory, but he is no hidebound,
reactionary, narrow-minded writer ; rather, a vital force
and an inspiring fighter who refuses to believe that
Britain is decadent and ready to drop the “too-vast
orb” of her influence and interests at the beck of a
Kaiser or a “Cocoa” daily. One can imagine the
legitimate satisfaction he must feel to-day when he
sees that, after all, he was right, and that Lloyd
George, and G. K. Chesterton, and Spencer Leigh
Hughes, and Bernard Shaw, and H. W. Massingham,
and all the other brilliant Little Navyites and Little
F.nglanders were wrong! I firmly believe that in the
coming fight against Cobden’s absurd Joss —a fight
even now half-won, and safe to be greatly forwarded
by this very war that Maxse foresaw so clearly—the
formidable editor of the National Review will prove
to 1 c equally right, and that Britain will turn from
the importers and Foreign-traders of her own raising,
and give her people the Protection which means con-
stant, well-paid work and its inevitable results —
decent living, contentment and national security.
Once more, hats off to L. J. Maxse— the Man Who
Stands Justified by the Event 1
The Brute and the Angel.
Plain talk by “Martin Luther” :
A well-meaning lady named Kate Cornell has
preached to the members of the Blue Bird Club at
the Melbourne Austral Salon, taking as her text:
“The Unmarried Mother.” The lady made some per-
fectly true statements, but attributed to me a state-
ment I never made. Said she: “‘lt’s a hard world
for girls,’ said Martin Luther ; and that was 600
years ago. It’s still a hard world for girls and
women, because it’s a man’s world, made for men by
men.” I may have remarked on the hardness of the
world for girls during my first incarnation; but I
also remarked that women were all the better for
an occasional whacking, so Miss Cornell has not
reported me in full. It was a hard world for men,
too, and also an adamantine globe for Protestants,
Catholics, children, dogs - and old women without
money. The little that human nature has changed
since those days has been for the better.
Miss Cornell says, quite truthfully, man made the
world, and made it to suit men; but while making
it for himself he couldn’t help making it suitable for
women as well. If he progressed by his own efforts
out of the cave and built a house for himself, he took
the old woman out of the cave, too, and she rose
with him. Sometimes he gave women supreme power,
and then there was hell to pay. He reversed the
order ,qf nature, and tried to make the hen beauti-
ful with all sorts of adventitious dodges; trapped
the mink and the fox and the seal so that, like the
savage, woman might wear beast furs; oppressed
niggers and lost the lives of white men to get
diamonds for her throat, which was often red and
scrawny and of the texture of gooseflesh; and dived
in 20-fathom water for pearls for ears often rheu-
matic. He swindled a worm that she might walk
in silk, and very often he lived on the smell of an
oil rag that she might be bn the committee of the
Unnatural Women’s Political League, or be one 'of
the “also rans” in society. He made the marriage
ceremony for the protection of mother and child,
and established pre-maternity maintenance and the
Separate Property Act for the benefit of married
women. I-Ie made the man responsible for his
wife’s maintenance, even if he were hard up and
the woman independent, and never thought of re-
versing the incidence. He also refused to hang
her, no matter what her crime; and generally he
has acted as a fool to an ingrate. Any women who
do not work for a living are like over-fed children.
Give them kindness and they demand slavishness.
It was probably Nancy’s knowledge that she was
naturally a slave, and Bill Sikes’s recognition of
it, that made her take her whackings so kindly.
Seriously the woman —outside of the maternal
functions she dodges so frequently these days—
hasn’t the worst end of the stick. When men
sought to detain Mrs. CiiLLAUx, after she had mur-
dered Calmette, she said, “with superb hauteur”
(as one woman journalist put it) : “Don’t touch
me—l am a woman.’’ That’s the attitude of all
the shriekers of the sex we couldn’t do without,
and are making no attempt to do without, either.
Unbalanced women rival men in "violent crime; and,
being brought up against it, they outcry: “Do not
touch me—l am a woman,” as if there were any-
thing sacrosanct in that.
♦
The Peacock Ministry, which spreads its
tail at Melbourne, reports cheerfully that
nothing special has happened to make new
taxation necessary. As, neither the crops
nor the railways nor thA factories have been
shot, and the Federal Government pays the
usual subsidy, and the war charges don’t
fall on the State Treasury, Peacock can’t
see any present cause for alarm or hurry
or pathos or advertisement. But then the
Government he represents has borrowed
£20,500,000 less than Holman’s in the last
four years. In the same time Peacock and
co. have paid off £2,000,000 of old deficits
instead of piling up £6,000,000 of new short-
ages. And they have reduced railway
charges where the Holman crowd has in-
creased them. So Peacock is able to dig
his claws into Jthe ground, and stand firm,
and say that all is well so far, while his
contemporary in Sydney is crying for assist-
ance and alleging that the situation is really
terrible. It is all the difference between
the house that is built on the plain, stodgy
rock and the one'that is piled up gaily on
the iridescent sand.
1 +
Italy should devise a new banner, with a
picture of a crow sitting on a fence. Still
it is doing something. That miserably
inefficient German, William of Wied, fled
from ’ his temporary kingdom of Albania,
where he never managed to collect enough
salary to pay his household expenses. The
new kingdom was left to anarchy. So Italy
has sent a force to occupy this No Dog’s
Land, and to restore some kind of order in
the most hopelessly lost scrap of the lost
empire of European Turkey. Probably it
will get the place. The motto of the wise
crow is: “Sit on the fence long enough, but
don’t sit on the fence too long.”
The External Affairs Department has
decided to subsidise to the extent of £lO,OOO
an allegedly philanthropic concern, called
“Papuan Industries, Limited.” This tame
wild-cat holds a 99-years lease of 800 acres
in Papua, and proposes to “organise the in-
dustry of the native?, prevent their exploita-
tion by persons who have no interest in their
spiritual welfare, and show them that Chris-
tianity concerns itself not only with this but
also with the whole of their material and
social life.” The syndicate has been trading
for some years with no visible spiritual re-
sults. It may be all right, nevertheless. But
the Commonwealth has a drought and a
world-wide war to cope with, two transcon-
tinental lines to build, its railway gauges to
unify, ammunition and arms factories to
enlarge and a dozen other urgent and ex-
pensive matters to attend to. Contempo-
raneously, its revenue is falling, and the in-
terest bills for the colossal State debts have
to be met. At the best of times the proposal
to put £lO,OOO into a concern which avowedly
mixes holiness and trade would call for most
serious inquiry. At a time like the present it
is wholly indefensible.
♦
The Victorian Labor platform for the com
ing elections comprises Constitutional Reform,
providing for the Initiative and Referendum.
Australian Governors, reform of the llous- 1
of Fat and redistribution of Assembly seats,
a Greater Melbourne, with adult suffrage, a
Bill reorganising the Health Department,
and placing all public charities in its con-
trol, legislation for the control of trusts and
combines, and for the establishment of fair-
rent courts, and progressive measures deal-
ing with apprenticeship, education, forestry,
closer settlement and other matters. Also,
the party declares for the restriction of
borrowing and the establishment of “liberal”
sinking funds. It is a large and appetising
bill of fare, and as the Assembly is elected
on an adult suffrage basis there is no visible
reason why the people shouldn’t give them-
selves the chance to have a cut at it. Also
it contains everything save the one thing
that is most required—the abolition of the
system of devious railways and differential
railway rates under which all the outlying
parts of the State must trade with Mel-
bourne, or if they are too remote to do busi-
ness profitably with Melbourne must drift
back into their old condition of aboriginal
wilderness. To the Victorian Laborite the
monopolist and landlord of Melbourne are
as sacred as his bloated brethren in Sydney
are to the N.S.W. Laborite.
The present N.S.W. Government apparently
doesn’t know when it is giving itself away
—or else it doesn’t care. It expounds its
mismanagement in the most cheerful fashion.
For instance, the Premier stated that there
are about £8,000,000 of fine, upstanding,
expensive loans invested in scraps of new
railway works which are bringing in just
about nothing, and which must be finished
before they will bring in anything worth
mentioning. Now, if you start a railway
extension or duplication from one end, and
plod on with it steadily, each little section
that is finished can be put into service, and
made to earn its oats —or part of them.
Even if you start the work from each end it
is possible to make it earn an oat or two.
But if it is started in six or eight isolated
sections the result is different. There may
be six or eight camps of grateful navvies in
as many different electorates to help turn
the scale on election day, but the four or
six middle sections can’t earn anything until
they are connected. To open an isolated
middle fragment by carrying rolling stock to
it by bullock-dray would be ruinous. So
huge loans are eating their heads off to no
purpose—unless it be some political pur-
pose.
♦ i
The monotonous success of the. German
cruisers Emden and Karlsruhe among
unarmed British merchantmen is almost con-
fined to tramps and cargo liners. Passen-
ger steamers are left almost severely
alone; and it is fairly safe to say that this
is due to their powerful wireless installa-
tions. When the Kaiser Wilhelm 11. stuck
up the Galicia the latter’s operator had time
to shriek “S.O.S.: —Gal” into the atmosphere.
This fragment gave a clue to the expectant
warship Highflyer, and that was the end of
K. W. 11. Taking a line from this, the
British Admiralty should insist on all cargo
boats which fly the Jack being fitted with
wireless. The compulsion must eventually
arrive even under peace conditions. If it.
comes now it would put an end to the raid-
ing of hostile cruisers, and ease the strain
on the nerves of our highly-strung brother
who inhabits India’s coral strand. He is
said, no doubt by the wholly unreliable
enemy, to be wondering if the Sons of the
Sea have mislaid some of their rule of the
waves, and the sooner he is reassured on
that point the better. A little uneasiness
goes a long way in the Indian bazaars.
“John Dishkagge” : Some weeks ago a
Bulletin man Plain Englished the troubles
—chiefly financial —of the ambitious and
attractive girl who “walks on” at the
theatres, and generally mans -the -back row
while waiting to be “discovered.” A friend
who has seen much active service at the
footlights lately supplemented that informa-
tion. He solemnly assured me .that some
of these healthy, upstanding dress-trailers
clear as much as 3s. 6d. per week
—when in work. When they are unem-
ployed they merely clear out of their cheap
boarding-houses—unless there is a gentle-
man friend with a flat in the offing. How-
ever, absurd as it may seem, there are flocks
of decent girls on the stage who object to
flats and don’t hanker for any “pearls-in-
the-bed” advertisements. For these staunch
spirits there remains the drivelling profit
of 3s. 6d. or so and a hurried retreat to the
old homestead when the engagement gives
out or the manager threatens to become too
familiar. I would feel more compassionate
towards the female theatrical recruit if I
didn’t find it so difficult to get capable
household help at £l' a week, with board
and lodging (as good as have myself)
absolutely free. If there is any social
stigma attaching to the plain job of house-
hold A.D.C., I am willing to try to lift it
by conferring the title of Colonel or Major-
General on the lady who is ready to man
the gas-stove. I am also willing to supply
The Bill of the Play.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Special War-Time Revival !
The Absorbing Perennial Tragedyll!
A LOAN IN LONDON!
N.S.W. Treasury Buildings, Sydney.
By Special Permission of the Authors.
(Messrs. D. Hardup and Stone Broke.)
This Sterling Piece
Will be Revived with Enhanced Effects t
cast
will include
J. Bull Cohen as Father Christmas.
(His original part.)
Timothy Coghlan A Go-Between.
(Exclusively engaged.)
David Hall ........ The Spend, Spend, Spendthrift!
(His first appearance.)
Arthur Griffith A Billionaire (in his sleep).
J. 11. Cann ..: An Honest Man.
(His second appearance.)
Campbell Carmichael
A School-teacher in Spite of Himself.
James McGowen A Retired Superintendent.
Mrs. S. M. Herald .... An Inveterate Grandmother.
Miss Matilda King-Street .. An Energetic Spinster.
■ and
Mr. WILLTE HOLMAN .... Artist and Contortionist.
: (Ilis original part.)
(Bankers, financiers, professional earbiters, members
of Parliament, supporters, dry bee-farmers, poor rela-
tions, misguided enthusiasts, unemployed, messengers,
constituents, unionists, etc., etc.)
Act I.
“The King of the Castle /”
Scenes: The Millennium, in Macquarie Street —A
Vault in the Treasury—(Help yourselves!)—At
the Trades Hall —The Premier’s Office —On the
Government Launch.
Act 11.
“Spend ! Spend ! Spend /”
Scenes: Parliament House Lobby—The Government
Cow-Sheds^ —A Railway Station Refreshment
Room —A Vault in the Treasury—(“Let ’em all
come”).
Act 111.
“God Bless Captain Cook
Scenes: On Board the Mailboat for London —Bucking-
ham Palace, London—A Bank in London —Office
of the Agent-General, London—Piccadilly by
Night—The Lair of Father Christmas.
Act IV.
“Turning the Sods.”
Scenes: A Country Town en fete —The Government
Dry-bee Farm —A Brickworks near Sydney—
A Broken Platform—Room at the Trades Hall
occupied by the Loan-stormers’ Union —Office of a
Great Daily—(“By Heaven, it’s WAR!”)
Act V.
“A Loan in London l”
Scenes: On the Treasury Doormat —A Bank in Sydney
—A Bank in Melbourne—At the Office of the
Cable Company—The Lair of Father Christmas
(“Tell Villie idt vos no goot!”)—An Office in
King Street, Sydney—The Cathedral in Hunter-
street —(Grandma Intercedes for Willie) —The
Empty Vault at the Treasury—The Agent-
General’s Office in London —(“Farewell —l done
me dash 1")
Stage Effects by Staffs of the Great Dailies.
Limelight Effects by Messrs. Time, Waßr and
Drought.
The whole produced by
m Glib Gab,
Callous Ness,
and
I. G. Norance.
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


GAELIC WHISKY
the old smuggler
rP
B,
GAELIC
The Perfect Whisky
... in ...
The Perfect Bottle.
DISTILLED IN THE
HIGHLANDS of SCOTLAND.
s?
O'
pOORD^Soiy
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
£8
DT
A
.Swift & Company !Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney'
her with an attractive service uniform and
suitable accoutrements. If there is any
possibility of inducing the King to institute
a system of rewards and decorations for
distinguished service in the kitchen, I will
do the best to help the scheme along. But
I will not pity anybody because she gets
only 3s. 6d. a week for messing about a
frowsy theatre when she might be doing
useful work at much more than a living
wage.
♦
The War, so Far as It Has Gone.
As this issue goes to press Battle 891 is
raging in Belgium, and Battle 892 is going
strong on the Russian border. These are
the huge events, but Battles 870 to BDO are
in progress at the same time. They are
ticketed “B” on The Bulletin’s own
authority, because it reckons that “A” is
about used up. The monstrous “A” and
"B” engagements haven’t been named yet.
They han’t be named till the war is finished,
and tne censorship eases up, and the formal
history is written in 2000 volumes by 500
authors. In a vague way they represent
the mammoth which wandered in its own
comprehensive fashion through primeval
glades, and didn’t know whether its name
was Towzer or Fido or something else. The
whole battle line in active service on the
Russian border spreads across bits of three
countries—Prussia, Russian Poland and
Austria. It may be called a wholesale
order. Many curious happenings have been
reported during the week, apart from the
burning of more towns, the welter of blood,
the bog of corpses, and the usual thieving,
murdering and lying episodes. It is men-
tioned that when Antwerp proved indefen-
sible there was no time to shift the tens of
thousands of meat carcases in the refriger-
ating stores. It being considered inadvis-
able to provision the invaders, the refrigerat-
ing plants were destroyed, and the meat left
to decay and become a pestilence. There
was neither time nor opportunity to get the
grain-ships away, so they were sunk. Con-
sequently Antwerp has ceased to be a harbor.
The wreck of the Belgian army being in a
desperately tight place about this time, a
few thousand soldiers stayed behind and
gained the bulk of the forces a few hours’
start by means of a battle which was, of
course, plain suicide. It seems to have
been a greater and more hopeless affair than
Thermopylae, but amid the wide pressure
of business it didn’t get a mention till many
days after the event. A casual allusion has
been made to the fact that some Kalmucks
and Circassians and Siberians had smote .
the German real hard in Poland, so appar-
ently the remote section of the Bear is
beginning to arrive. Presumably the great
bulk of the Tartar army is hardly on the
horizon yet, but, allowing for the outlying
folk who have arrived, and the new half-
million boy recruits which France has dug out,
and the new British forces that Kitchener
is finding, the pressure on William the
Bloodstained grows severe. Sundry British
and French ships, having nothing much to
do on their own element till the Kaiser’s
fleet comes out, have taken to land service.
By performing the mud-turtle act close to the
shore, and bombarding lustily, they are
alleged to have made the coast road on which
the enemy depended for another dash at
Calais a beastly unpleasant place. Some
German person is said to have allowed to
leak out a fairly comprehensive report of
what was to happen to France after WIL-
ll.’s triumphal entry into Paris. It
was to lose its colonies and its eastern
provinces, to surrender most of its munitions
of war, to admit German goods free of duty,
to pay £400,000,000, and to keep its army
at the service and disposal of Germany. In
South Africa it is rumored that a copy of
the arrangement made between Colonel
Maritz and the adjacent German Governor
for the division of the South African Union
has come to light, and a very angry soldier
named Botha is rushing things to an argu-
ment. Botiia —Prime Minister and Com-
mander-in-Chief-—is a great man these days,
and to find that a German colonial Governor
and an obscure rebel had arranged to divide
all his greatness between them has probably
-made him foam on the veldt and use unscrip-
tural language on the kopje. The Unspeak-
able Turk, with his German inclinations and
jhis immense capacity for blundering, has
commenced to be nasty by expelling Greeks
from his territories, and Greece is wearily
fragging its armies together in fear of still
ajnother war. On the whole the tail of the
Allies is greatly exalted by the week’s work,
&nd the Kaiser is seven days nearer to the
iprecipice. And at the bottom of the preci-
pice is the appalling bill, which will have
jo be paid in territory and. cash for damage
|one. Any report that the great financier
Holman will be employed to adjust the
accounts may be regarded as unreliable.
A great deal is heard these days about the
necessity for putting wage-earners on half-
time during the present war trouble. And
the more obvious necessity for putting them
on half imports and double manufactures
receives much less attention than it deserves.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers”
Royal Maud Allan
Criterion “Seven Keys to Haldpate”
Little “His House in Order”
Adelphi “Driving a Girl to Destruction”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s 1 “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “Within the Law”
King’s “Madame Du Barry”
Princess’s “The Ever-Open Door”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville ( o.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia k National Hoyt’s Pictures
Esplanade ~ The Green Dandies
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus
♦
“The .Glad Eye” is still receiving earnest
consideration at Sydney Palace. Business
is evidently good, for Beaumont Smith has
not yet announced what special concessions
he is prepared to offer the Church. One
night, when he is standing outside shaking
himself by the hand and offering himself his
heartiest congratulations, he will be swept
off his feet and rushed backwards into the
orchestra by a Turco-like charge of annoyed
curates. J Then he will realise what it means
to provoke the profession by offering it
something it knows it ought to see, but which
it can’t see without paying full fare.
V
Once more The Bulletin rises in its
boiled shirt and remarks in a pained voice
that the one-week show with a long five
nights j start doesn’t give a w r eekly news-
paper a fair chance. The entertainment
headed by dancer Maud Allan, at Sydney
Royal, is at this moment dying on its two
bare feet; so this paper does no more than
utter a pious hope that the public has been
duly grateful for an artistic and original
show, and attended in paying quantities.
*** * (
The Gondoliers” cease to ply their calling
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) after next
bnday. ihe opera co.’s next production is
iolanthe.”
$ v Jjl (
That pleasant dramatic fantasy, “Seven
Iveys to Baldpate,” continues to delight and
surprise large audiences at Sydney Criterion.
* * * *
Pinero’s “His House in Order,” will be re-
vived by the Buckler company at the Sydney
Little Theatre next Saturday. Meantime the
production of “Lord and Lady Algy” permits
Hugh Buckler to get drunk (theoretically, of
course) among the peerage every evening.
** * *
< *P r i v i n £> a Girl to Instruction,” revived
at Sydney Adelphi on Saturday, is one of the
most successful bellowdramas the Adelphi
has produced—looking at it from a bellow-
dramatist s point of view. According to
Melville, the b’dramatist judges the merits
of a play .by the names of the characters;
and here is the pick of the present collec-
tion: William Wadd, Lucas List, Billy
Broad, Freddy Feather, Bobby Broad;
Bessie Betts, Robert Ray* Marv Mollatt,
Ruth Wright and Ruby Wright. Apart
from the fact that Ruby is driven to destruc-
tion in . this twin-cylinder fashion, the
b’drama is the image of the majority of its
forefathers.
“THE GONDOLIERS ” (SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S).
Miss Florence Smithson, acknowledged by
herself and the programme to be the Queen
of Song, continues her reign unmolested at
Sydney Tivoli. Stelling and Revell, who made
a triumphal entry into their kingdom on Satur-
day, were immediately proclaimed Grand
Duke and Crown Prince of Comedy Gym-
nasts ; and Tom Kelly, largely as a result of
his “Tipperary,” outed all claimants to the
title of Gaekwar of Ireland. Fatima, undis-
puted Kaiserine of Korkscrews (who is in
her last nights) ; Torino, heir to the Lord
High Executionership of Jugglers; and
James Teddy, Ahkound of Jump, are other
royal visitors this week. On the whole, they
are as interesting a lot of crowned beads as
this paper has met for more than a day and ;
a half.
The Imperial Salon de Luxe (Sydney)
will challenge the lure of the beaches to-
morrow night and _ Saturday. Manager
Michael Joseph has made arrangements for
tango weather.
s’! *
Melbourne, which takes something of the
same pride in Nellie Stewart that it
takes in Melba and the latest Yarra-
bank improvements, is, glad to meet
her again—at the King’s this time—•
in a drama where she can run the
whole gamut of her accomplishments. In
“Du Barry” she does all she ever did, save
sing and dance, and a bit more. She is the
high-toned soubrette with a full equipment of
festive arts and graces; the costume comedi-
enne, whose emotions are clothed in a rapid
succession of fineries; the tragedienne, who
strikes notes of grief, anger and despair with
fuller expression than of old. David Belasco’s
play might have been written for Nellie
Stewart, and she deserves that it should have
been written considerably better. Her task
is to be decoratively effective from first to
last, giving the force of realism to scenes
and situations purely theatrical and essenti-
ally false. The name part is the daughter of
Sweet Nell and first cousin to Camille. There
is no dignity in the dialogue of the drama, as
a rule. Du Barry’s altercation with Louis
XV. in the fourth act is sorry stuff, the
repetition of assertions and denials being
more suggestive of a suburban backyard on
washing day than of a royal palace garden
en fete. Yet even that is conducted on im-
pressive lines. Throughout the piece the
actress, rather than the author, makes Du
Barry appear much better than a mere
creature of impulse, in whom the instincts
of a courtesan are sicklied o’er by the pale
“DRIVING A GIRL TO DESTRUC-
TION." AT SYDNEY A DELPHI.
The saiior hero (George Cross) is knocked out
for a scene and, an interval.
cast of sentimentality, and perfumed by
reminiscences of a bunch of violets in the
first' act. Uu Barry has an upward-down-
ward or downward-upward career. She is a
girl at a milliner’s shop. She expands into a
chaste decoy at a gambling establishment.
Afterwards she becomes Louis’ extravagant
concubine, and is eventually brought to peni-
tence and the guillotine, owing to her
fondness for a young man who doesn’t pay
her bills. She gets to Heaven, in fact,
through the grace of a disloyal love, and
the solicitous attentions of the Papal Nuncio.
When last seen she is going off in a cart to
meet her earthly ' doom, but the Papal
Nuncio is still on the job, therefore one feels
Lhat poor Nellie’s future is secure.
* * ’> * *
Her support in this gaudy, animated
drama is adequate, though not as strong as
it might be. Blakiston, as Louis XV., is
not so consistently capable as Lewis Wil-
loughby in the immaculate-lover character ;
but, then, the former has a difficult part to
play, and must work hard to avoid being
contemptible. Both of them are more satis-
factory than Vivian Edwards, as the stodgy,
over-sneerful yillain of the piece, whose
policy of revenge seems unthinkable under
the circumstances. Having discovered Du
Barry’s good young mdm hiding in her bed-
room, like the Chocolate Soldier, the villain
accepts 200,000 francs for hush money;
nevertheless in the next act he proceeds to
give her away to the JCing, instead of turn-
ing his secret to blacfimail purposes—which
is very unlike a human dog. John Forde,
Hodgson Taylor and 20 other people cut
considerable figures in minor characters,
whilst eight scenes are very well staged.
The bedroom scene alone looks strong enough
to carry the drama through a successful
season.
* .* * *
A three-act story of promiscuous canood-
ling, chaperoned by commonplace music,
seems a reasonable description of “The Girl
in the Taxi,” which arrived at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) on Saturday night. The same old
connubial infidelity that prevailed in “The
Merry Widow” is repeated with variations
in the present disturbance; in fact, saving
an unobservant Baroness, every married per-
son in the piece tries- a course of indiscre-
tion, involving late suppers and mendacious
explanations next morning. The elderly head
of the Dauvray household shows an early
appetite for giddy adventures, and is helped
to a meal by Mrs. Charcot, whose own
hubby is preoccupied with titbits on his own
plate. Young Dauvray also becomes per-
manently estranged from his salary, owing
to the claims of Mrs. Pomarel. Old
Pomarel, for his part, is an experienced
Lothario, and the record of the youthful
Rend, who proposes to marry Baron Dauv-
ray’s daughter, is a large, monotonous state-
ment of hollbw amors and loss of sleep.
Naturally when all these joyous philanderers
meet in the old familiar type of restaurant,
and form themselves into committees of two
in sundry private rooms, the proceedings wax
festive, and a haze of impropriety lingers
over all. Exposure follows, and the plot
becomes charged with eccentric humor
through each sinner’s desperate efforts to
appear pure and unspotted before the world.
SYDNEY A DELPHI.
The orphan cripple outs the villain with a
crutch. (Loud applause.)
Excluding Miss Dorothy Brunton, wli.i
exploits all her comeliness and girlish charm
in the role of Jacqueline Dauvray,
the cast is new to Melbourne. W. H.
Rawlins brings a large figure and a small
singing voice to bear on the part of the
Baron, and relies for many effects on extra-
vagant grimaces and handplay. C. 11.
Workman as Pomarel shows himself an
approved stayer in comedy work, though
some of his facial expressions are not always
relevant to the conversation in hand. Percy
Claridge on Saturday night used a very
respectable baritone as Rend, the Nut. Fred
Maguire as Hubert is at least successful in
expressing the ecstatic idiocy of callow
youth ; while D. J. Williams, entrusted with
the small character of an erotic Professor,
seems a trifle crushed by the weight of his
responsibility. The two waiters, who indus-
triously supply rakes with bottled aids to
headaches and insolvency, are impersonated
by Field Fisher and Chris. Wren, the former
with philosophic calm, and the latter with
misfitting trousers. Miss Maggie Jarvis
(Mrs. Pomarel) possesses a fresh, young
voice with music in it. Miss Millie Engler
as the Baroness is most satisfactory in the
manner of wearing her clothes; and Miss
Gwen Hughes as Mrs. Charcot makes a
tall and rather inanimate ornament for a
bad man’s supper table. Considered alto-
gether, “The Girl in the Taxi” is a some-
what hackneyed study of Frenchy naughti-
ness, wherein the scenery and dressing are
accepted as a graceful apology for some of
the . shortcomings of the composer and lib-
rettists. The climax of the restaurant scene
harnesses the audience to the uproar by
means of paper ribbons, after the manner
of the late unlamented revues.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal a short revival of
“Within the Law” next Saturday will cut
short the career of Detective Kayton, who
has been nightly unravelling “The Argyle
Case,” to the painful disadvantage of Mr.
Hurley and the obvious trepidation of Mrs.
Martin. Mention of this lady, who displays
an unaccountable affection for a hairy foreign
counterfeiter, brings to mind the fact that
she has had three different impersonators
since the season started. At the beginning
of last week Miss Boswell, the original Mrs.
Martin, dropped out of the cast on account
of illness, and was succeeded by Miss Pay ter
and Miss Forbes, who worked up some good
emergency emotion in the part, and only here
and there left a little stronger acting to be
desired.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday) will be the last
opportunity at Melbourne Princess’s for in-
specting the heavenly kindliness of ’Poleon
Doret, the amorous conduct of Loo-tenant
Burrell, and the final heavyweight scrap
between Gale and Stark for the possession of
a shooter and six pellets of death. “The
Barrier” is withdrawing to make room for
‘The Ever-open Door,” a new bellowdrama
by G. R. Sims.
$ Sf! * *
Cinquevalli, who does some of the same
old wonderful things with a finer air of un-
concern than when Australia first saw them,
has resumed. the lead at Melb. Tivoli, where
also the ladies with the iron jaws, and the
colored Herman with the iron laugh, are
assisting a fairly strong bill. Fields and
Coco, ragtime gymnasts, started gymming
and ragging on Monday; and on Saturday
next the Power Bros, will acrobat as before.
The new turns promised for Cup week are
Fatima, the Harem dancer, and the four
Boises, otherwise known as human aero-
planes.
** * *
A time-honored incident at Wirths’ Circus
(Melb.) next week will be the annual
offering of a gold-mounted whip to
the winning jockey on Cup night.
Meanwhile, the circus has been avail-
ing itself of the rise in temperature
and the local drought to spread its motley
gathering of attractions in the breezy Amphi-
theatre, adjoining the Hippodrome. The
watchword of the Wirths is Roll Up and Be
Cool.
*' * * *
At Melb. Auditorium next Saturday the
Taits are to set aside their usual “Pop” in
favor of Florence Young and her co. of
SUNDRY SHOWS.


fhfdh
RED
[Daniel Crawfords
'•»<*. Vl.r 0..
Scotch \ftasKV
'<r
STAR
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY,
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen. Street, Melbourne. s . J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
JPhone No.-g36-Central-.- SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
musical players. Florence, together with Reg.
Roberts, Bantock and Edmund Sherras, will
appear in “The Climax” for a Cup carnival
season, at prices ranging from one shilling to
live, or vice versa.
I * sis * *
Itfew arrivals at Melbourne Bijou include
►Sebastian. Merrill’s Yip Yaps, the absurdly-
named trio of trick bikists who put up a
turp full of quaint humor and original situa-
tions. Deaves’ Mannikins are making a
welcome reappearance, while, also appearing
u not so welcome, are Zeno and Mandell, the
nasal Yankee ragtimers who make noises
rnuL some^mes . soun d like English. Jock
Ihbropson continues to warble effusive com-
pliments to Scotland, and a lady named Bol-
ton is making a livelihood by imitating
Daisy Jerome and other popular entertainers.
* sis * *
Tom Kelly, who has been telling his
quaint yarns at Adelaide Tivoli, has moved
and George Hall takes up the running
with more yarns. Westony i at the piano,
and there is some good dancing by tb -
Wolff brothers and sister and Eddie Martyn
Several much-lieralded new-to-Australia
turns are on the doorstep. At the King’s
are Daisy Jerome and Bert La Blanc, both
already familiar on the more or less “regu-
lar” stage; but nobody gets more
laughter than Armstrong and IJowarth, with
their reckless cross-talk. Allen Doone is at
the Royal, presenting an Irish Rebel —with
songs in the old style. Changes of pro-
gramme are frequent. The picture-houses
nil have war-films, of course, and scenes
Irom the real Front are now coming in.
Phe weather, however, has been against
indoor shows, and in favor of Branscombe’s
Dandies, who arrived just in time for it.
Taking one thing with another, we might
term it the Per-Hapsburg Monarchy.
Pipnel Pilkington, of Adelaide, is about
the nrst Australian to write home a descrip-
tion of what is happening in the middle of
things. Studying engineering at Birming-
ham University, he had the good luck to
come under a sensible new arrangement by
which an engineer can tackle his job
thoroughly in times of peace, and yet be
definitely on the military staff whenever
called for. This rule is at work in the
United Stales, ..with the result that army
men—like Johnston, whom Australia has
invited in to solve its Murray problem—are
mostly the best, even for “civil” jobs
Pilkington was on a civil job in Ceylon
when the trouble began, and bolted straight
for it ranee to catch his regiment. He didn’t
do that, but he got into the middle of the
lighting, all the same. Not being able to
pick up his own regiment he attached him-
self to the Gordon Highlanders, who were
terribly short of officers,” and was soon in
a r of sh V apneL “ The Gordons lost 200
or dOO men in about 15 minutes,” he says;
and yet he declares that, as a result of work
ac close quarters, “Tommy Atkins has the
greatest contempt for them all, with the
exception of their gunners.”
THE THEATRE IN
WAR TIME.
Comic opera.
Funny song entitled "Down
with German Sosstage.”
Melodrama.
The hero.
Ramsay Macdonald, M.P., has retired
from the leadership of the British Labor
party owing to his opposition to the war. Mac-
donald’s attitude proves him to be a bad
judge of the time when a man must put up
his hands ; it doesn’t prove him to be a bad
citizen by any means. Yet a Leicester
meeting refused him- a hearing and called
him “traitor.” He may be a fool, and his
judgment is certainly rotten; but what of
the fool and the man of rotten judgment who
bought German goods, and supplied the
Prussian with his thews and sinews of war?
Will they admit that they were traitors
too? If not, it will doubtless be because,
ouite rightly, they reckon it takes more than
folly and poor judgment to make a traitor.
AT POVERTY POINT.
‘ Kaniva”: Howard Vernon has shown
more versatility than most pros. In the
early part of his career he was on the
dramatic stage in Victoria. Later, he was
at old St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, with a
minstrel show, in which he sang tenor bal-
lads very sweetly. In the early Seventies
he aspired to grand opera, and joined
Lyster, when Alice May was prima donna,
and Armes Beaumont tenor. Vernon sang
Myles na Coppaleen in “The Lily of Ivil-
larney,” and many other parts. In the
eighties he struck his best line in Gilbert
and Sullivan, starting in “The Pirates of
Penzance.”. After his marriage with Miss
Vinia Deloitte he tried chicken-farming, and
then set out for Maoriland and the Cold
Country, as the backbone of a little co. of
entertainers. Forty years’ memories are
revived now by his return to Sydney.
Ambrose Manning, who was in the original
cast of “The Silver King,” in 1882, and who
came to. Australia With'Wilson Barrett, has
survived to take part-in H. B. Irving’s re-
vival in London. Henry Arthur Jones says
Manning “knows. more about the practical
business of the piece than any man living,”
and adds that he is very much indebted to
the old man’s help in staging the present re-
vival.
From London: Sarah Bernhardt has had
her plans knocked all of a heap by the war.
Her final farewell world-tour, including a
second visit to Australia, may now be re-
garded as among the highly improbable
events of the early or any other future. The
lady is stijl in Paris, in spite of the proximity
of the German Huns. An interviewer who
called at her house found her “lying pros-
trate on a couch, suffering from ill-health,
but with the same old sturdy spirit, anxious
to be up and doing, and deploring the help-
lessness that prevented her nursing the
wounded, as she did during the last siege of
Paris in 1870.” But she had done what
she could —she had offered her theatre for
use as a hospital. Her great rival, Rejane,
has, by the way, turned her house into a
shelter for children, and is feeding and look-
ing . after them herself. Every theatre in
Paris is closed, and there is much distress
in the rank and file of the nrofession. A
relief fund is being organised.
“Milmeridien”: Melbourne Argus gladly
shares the comfort which Westminster
Gazette found in the discovery that German
music owes nothing to Prussia: —
With the one exception of Beethoven none of the
great German composers was born in Prussia, and
Beethoven’s family migrated to Prussia from Bel-
gium. Wagner was a native of Saxony Strauss,
too, is a Saxon —•
and Kaiser Bill does not like his music.
Mendelssohn and Brahms were born in the free city
of Hamburg, whose republican constitution is com-
pletely opposed to the illiberal Prussian constitution.
Handel became a naturalised Englishman at the age
of 41. His most famous works were written and pro-
duced in England, and his , £20,000 fortune was in-
vested in the English Funds.
We are at war with Austria, too; but the
fact that Vienna is the home of Germanic
music is not stated, because these old Women
of the press can extract no comfort from
that fact. Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms,
Schubert and “Blue Danube” Strauss all
did their best work in Vienna. Wagner was
a native of Leipzig, which is the sort of town
that should produce symphonies of 42 centi-
metre guns. (It produced also that “sterling”
stainless hosiery which covered many a well-
shaped Australian leg, Australia being a poor
country that can produce but not stock-
ings. ) The Gazette’s inference that Mendels-
sohn and Brahms would be poor composers
if born in Chauvinistic Berlin rather than
the “free city of Hamburg” is no more fatu-
ous than a monarchial newspaper’s admira-
tion for a “republican constitution.” It is
more Humbug than Hamburg. Handel, of
course, could not have been the maker of the
essiaii music, nor could he have com-
posed the lesser oratorios, but for becomng
fi se< J English subject at the age
or 41. Up to then, he played “The Maiden’s
rayer with one finger. The investment
°t his £20,000 fortune in the English Funds
naturally perfected him in counterpoint and
harmony. Still it scarcely alters the fact
that in music, as in most of the Arts, the
Lnglissh are a dull people. Some of them are
®.f en au en °ugh to comfort themselves for
horrors of a world struggle with the fact
that Handel banked his profits in London.
THE THEATRE
IN WAR
TIME.
The comic bloke in
vaudevitle getting
a laugh.
Melodrama.
Ihe villain.
“10-2-4” : What a waste of good offensive
material it was to shoot all the wild animals
in the Antwerp Zoo! The collection, when
I saw it last, was one of the best in Eurone.
It included healthy specimens of pretty well
every vicious animal; and, speaking for my-
self, nothing would oust me from a trench
quicker than the invasion of a couple of
jaguars, or even a crocodile, or a cobra-
Talking of Zoos, their greatest enemy always
has been war. The Paris Zoo is still ridicu-
lously inadequate on account of the ;siege of
1871. In those black days the starving in-
habitants paid high prices for bits of the
elephant, and the camel was consumed with
relish. The Basle Zoo has suffered in the
same way. On the other hand, the Regent’s
Park (London) Zoo is about the best in the
world, largely because its choicest performers
have never been eaten by the audience.
“C. Ockney” : Apropos the revival of “The
Silver King” in London, author Henry
Arthur Jones recently made some interest-
ing and sane remarks, which should appeal
to embryo playwrights on this side. “I
always feel glad that I served my appren-
ticeship in melodrama,” he said, “and par-
ticularly in so good a school as Wilson
Barrett’s. I think if many of our young
dramatists could have some practice in this
class of work it would give boldness and
vigor to their plays, and correct a little the
tendency which British drama has perhaps
lately shown to become anaemic; I will not
say neurotic, but a little pseudo-psycho-
logical and pseudo-sociological. However, if
it has wandered a little from the true path,
our present experience will surely correct it
and bring us back to saner, sterner and
braver views of life.” Jones was asked
whether he had touched the old piece up.
“I refused to alter a line of it,” was his
reply, “because it must be considered as a
production of 1882. I have always noticed
that whenever you try to bring an old play
up to date you merely make it more old-
fashioned.”
“Yarra Ben”: Just ,had _iy two-dozenth
look at good old “Silver King.” The ancient
drama shows its age mainly in the scenery.
No one could truthfully aver tnat that part
of the production at Melbourne Royal was
“as fresh as paint.” All the old lines are
as good as new and go as well as ever, in-
cluding Bodger’s immortal squint and the
very Jonesian dream speech. I, sat 'next to
an imported mummer, now “resting,” who
specially conducted me through the piece.
His comments at the end of the first act
were interesting. Said he: “Did you notice
Tubbs, the landlord of the ‘Wheatsheaf,’
hand the. bottle to his customers?” I had
noticed it. “Wrong!” said my friend.
“That’s a custom unknown in England. No
British bung trusts the bottle with the
patrons of his bar. He measures the driuk
into a glass every time.” Of course he was
right. What a “resting” mummer doesn’t
know about the stage-management of a pub
bar is hardly worth knowing.
“Masetto”: Plancon, the French basso,
just dead in Paris, had the best voice of that
class heard this century. Its quality was
wonderfully mellow, yet resonant. Mephisto
was his greatest part. In 10 years he played
it at the Paris Opera House 100 times, and
many other times in London and New York.
In Wagner’s bass roles he was fine, and sang
them with an ease and smoothness seldom
equalled. An enthusiast on voice culture,
he would sit and talk on the topic and illus-
trate it for hours, and people in neighl >ring
rooms at hotels he stopped:at frequently got
recitals without booking seats.
In London Oscar Asche has at last with-
drawn “Kismet,” after 545 performances,
and is rehearsing its successor, “Mamgena.”
“Stargazer”: There is a monotonous,
middle-class excellence about American
drama almost as irritating as conspicuous
badness. -“The Argyle Case” has it, just as
practically all the American plays pre-
sented in Melbourne within five years have
had it. They are smart; defects are slicked
over; there is a specious pretence about
them; character is represented by devices
and tricks in a way most effective to the
confiding and trustful public. But there is
always the big “crook” assumption, a cold
examination of which brings the house of
cards to rack and ruin. The idea in “The
Argyle Case” that a gang of cute forgers,
with v a new dollar bill that simply defies
detection, would take the risk and trouble
of trying to draw a respectable millionaire
into the venture, is a howling absurdity; yet
without it there is no case in “The Argyle
Case.” Those money-makers, situated as
they were, would have had as much use for
a millionaire as a man would have for a
pipelight in Hell.
“J.”: I paid 15s. for two booked seats at
the Sydney Criterion last Saturday night—
in other words, first-night prices when the
entertainment had been running a week.
Thus does the long-prophesied begin to hap-
pen. There is no doubt that the Firm will
ultimately boost its charges up to the Lon-
don (West End) level, competition being
practically non-existent. The inequity of
such a step lies in the fact that the big
concern never takes a risk with a production
of its own, but deals exclusively in proved
London and New York successes. It says a
lot for Niblo’s popularity that 7s. 6d. can
be asked and got for a stall ai this finan-
cially-tight period. It says almost as much
for the Firm’s nerve.
From Arthur 11. Adams: If, as “Harrison
O.” states, the majority of the cast in the
recent Melbourne production of “Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier” was “hot even forgivably
amateurish,” then McMahon’s other produc-
tions must reach an exceedingly high artistic
standard. The cast seemed to me to have
been admirably chosen; and the failures in
it were not more than two. Indeed, what
struck me was the care with which McMahon
had selected actors who not only knew how
to speak their lines, but in themselves were
so like the characters they represented that
they had little else, to do except to be natural.
If other Australian playrights have had
representation up to this standard I cannot
see any chance for a growl from them. No
dramatic production is perfect. McMahon’s
production of my comedy was much better
than the script deserved.
A Mr. M. Carr, a Maorilander, who has
just returned from Germany (where, inci-
dentally, he suffered imprisonment in a Black
Hole of Calcutta), relates, in M.L.
Dominion, the story of a blatant pro-German
passenger from London on the Osterley.
At Colombo an enraged passenger reported
him to the authorities, who, finding him
carrying two six-shooters, firmly invited him
to discontinue the voyage. Cart says: “The
person referred to was well khown in the
moving-picture business a year or two ago
in Australia, and not unknown in Maori-
land.” Dm! Guess him.
“Chudah” : Isaac Jacobs, Melbourne’s chief
Jew from Germany, who rivalled the late
Ivronheimer in acts of charity, died last
week. He was taken to Manchester as a
youngster, and came on to Melbourne about
60 years ago. First he was with Falk and
Co., importers; thence he went into
tobacco with Feldheim, Jacobs and Co., after-
wards Jacobs, Hart and Co. He has been
President of the Chamber of Manufactures,
was originator of the Victorian Provident
Loan Society, and was mixed up with a lot of
things. He was a founder of the
St. Kilda Hebrew congregation 43 years ago,
and was always closely identified with it. Yet
he was one of the Modernists or Free-thinkers
of Jewry. One of his grand ideas was that
Jews ought to go in for agriculture; hence
he helped to promote the Hebrew Agricul-
tural Settlement at ShepDarton. He often
visited it, looked carefully into its affairs,
gave advice and help, and diligently impressed
on the waverers that pawnbroking and old-
clo’ dealing were not the noblest things in
life.
As soon as War and Drought had begun
to make themselves a nuisance in the Sunset
State, Archbish. Riley put on his apron
and started rummaging to find the best
means of dealing with the situation. Get-
ting together as many of the brains of
Westralia as were available, or not too
- tired, he and they proceeded to consider (1)
methods of opening up new industries or
other sources of employment, and (2) the
best means of raising the necessary cash.
The Archbish. set out by telling the various
interests assembled that it Was useless dol-
ing out distress relief, and that WORK'(of
the constant, productive brand) was what
the workers wanted; and he reckoned there
was plenty- to do, seeing that the State still
imported a vast quantity of goods, and thus
supplied work for other people. The meeting
elected an influential committee to report
on what and how new industries could be
established, and the best means of strength-
ening existing industries. The Bulletin
doesn’t know what the report is likely to
be r but for clause 1 it suggests that the
Archbish. shall swear that he will never buv
a hat or an apron or a crook that isn’t of
Australian manufacture. A demand thus
created, the industry will arrive all right.
THE BALM OF SILENGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
• German band has been prohibited from playing
in the streets of Sydney.
I never would have dared to hope for what has come
to pass!
No more gross elephantine grunts will burst from
brutal brass
Just when I’m weaving rhymes like this to please
your eager ear!
Hosannah! Hallylpoyer! Wow! Sit down in front!
Hear, hear 1
I or many years and weary years I’ve cursed them all
as cows
I or adding to the city's loud, unnecessary rows ;
But, now they’ve played a tune accursed, we shall
not hear them more
Until the winds have blown away the last red clouds
of war.
So let the war drag on, I say, for wars I cannot hear;
But brassy grunts of piping peace to me are always
near.
The balm of silence on my nerves, my gratitude won’t
cease
Until some fool lets uproar loose by patching up a
peace.
N.S.W.
A SUFFERER FOR MANY YEARS.


■
m
INDIAN PITH HELMETS
These Helmets are absolutely sunproof, anrl are the finest
Headwear for Summer and Tropical use. Beautifully light
and perfectly ventilated. Well finished m every respect
We illustrate an example covered with Grey Felt and fitted
with Silk Puggaree. In all sizes —6S to 7s.
OUR PRICE
10/6
y p -We have a Fine Selection of All Classes of these
Helmets in Stock, at the Most Favorable Prices.
Wq Pay Carriage Throughout Australasia•
DAVID JONES, LTD.,
Opp. G.P.O. SYDNEY.
The
DOUBLE'LIFE
OSMIRT
The feature of this shirt is the twofold strongly
and neatly-sewn reinforcement at the neck, as shown
by the arrow in the illustration. It is unnoticeable,
but doubles the life of the shirt.
Made of fine printed Twill in hair stripes of
Black, Helio, Brown, Light Blue, this perfectly
fitting and comfortable shirt will be a boon to men
who want a high-grade and durable shirt at a
moderate price.
Price 4/61 Post Free
to any part of Australia.
Write for our Fine Illustrated Catalogue,
CHAS. LANE & CO.
PTY.
LTD,
Corner Flinders Lane and Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
V
y
mote.
DOUBLE
AT riECt\
E/15URE5
DOUBLE
Lift.
SOCIETY
THE SURFERS’ TOPHET.
The garbage nuisance on the Manly (N-S.W.)
beaches has again cropped up. For the last few
days decayed fruit and vegetables, oranges, onions,
pumpkins, turnips, banana stalks, etc., have strewn
the ocean beach from end to end. A dead dog has
also figured on the sands at North Steyne. the
matter"was mentioned at the Manly Council meeting,
and another letter of protest will be forwarded to
the City Council. —Sydney paper.
Orpen’s explanation of the meaning of his
£7OO caricature, “Sowing the .Seed, has
reached Adelaide. It was elicited by th~
clamor raised three months ago, when the
city was wild in denunciation —or occasion-
ally in praise—of the painting ; but more im-
portant things have happened meanwhile,
and the explanation now falls as flat as yes-
terday’s XXX. Its .chief value lies in show-
ing that every single shot hitherto made at
interpretation was wrong—even that supplied
bv Rose Macpherson, who bought the work
for the S.A. Art Gallery. The children re-
ceiving the seed are Young Ireland, of course.
But the apparently typical wowser is not
one, nor yet is he a peasant; and the veiy
nude lady is Orpen himself:
The figure in black represents the several heads
of the Board of Agriculture and Technical Instruc-
tion for Ireland, which Board, beside their agricul-
tural and technical duties, have control of the
money for, and the management of, art in Ii eland.
The ladv Sowing the Seed represents myself, or any
other unfortunate, frying to introduce more modern
movements or fresher life and thought to the schools
under the Board.... The decayed tree is the Depart-
ment, and the single magpie is Bad luck to it.
When one looks back and reads the mystic
meaning attached to the picture by the sou -
ful “artistic” crowd, one can feel a lot ot
sympathy for the Philistines. Unfortunately
it is the business of the artist to encourage
flam about inner meanings, and so on; for
who in Australia would nay £7OO for a mere
caricature pillorying the heads of the Irish
Board of Technical Instruction because it
gave too little help to new movements? As
a matter of fact, if a thing is to be worth
the cost of a frame as a caricature, the m»t
essential is that its lesson should hit you in
the eye at once; and as Orpen’s caricature
didn’t hit anybody in the eye, its value as
caricature is tuppence. #
There is pathos for our side and gruesome
humor for the other in this report of the
torpedoing of the British cruiser Hawke in
the North Sea , ~, ,
Other survivors state that the Hawke sighted a
foreign trawler, and, in accordance with instruc-
tions. approached with the view of examining the
ship. As she neared the trawler there was an
explosion, and the periscope of a submarine showed
above the water like a broomstick.
Clearly the Germans took advantage of the
British Admiralty’s simple-minded instruc-
tions” • re the sighting of foreign trawlers.
These boats are to be “approached with a
view to examination —not fired at from aiai
off in a precautionary spirit. The German
submarine saw its chance, it associated itse
with the foreign trawler,. and when the
cruiser approached on its examination
mission it found itself biffed in three places
below the belt. The British way of ruling
the waves is magnificent, but it is not war.
Under present conditions the word should
go forth that any foreign trawler comes
under reasonable suspicion of being a lure or
a “fence” for a belligerent, and, if it comes
within the danger zone, must be prepared for
the worst. *
Though the greatest war of all history is
in full blast these are cold days for com-
manding officers. They are lost m the
crowd. Almost everybody is lost in the
crowd. It is no use for Sir John Irench
to shout “Up, Guards, and at them, or any-
thing of the sort, partly because his frag-
ment of the battle-line is probably 20 or 30
miles long, and partly because, when a battle
lasts like an old-time suit in Chancery, there
is no one supreme moment when the Guaids
should get upper than usual. If Joftre
rushed out some morning on a white horse
and pointed to. the east and said It is the
sun of Austerlitz” he would merely arouse
the inextinguishable laughter of the baggage
waggon people. No man can howl at a
line of soldiers 200 miles from end to end,
and the sun may rise 14 or 21 times on a
single disagreement. French and Jofrre
have become mere shadows, like bank mana-
gers. General Pau appeared out of the dust
for a minute. The press mentioned Hum be-
cause he lost a hand in the Franco-Prussian
war of 1870. Then he became simply one
more dog in the whirlwind. Rennenkampf
got some special notice .by reason of his
tremendous early dash into Fast Prussia.
The first great Russian victory outside Uem-
berg led to a mention of a name that sounded
like a great deal of soda-water. And a cer-
tain Yon Kluck, who seems to have a good
press agent, keeps himself before the public.
But two Russian armies, each bigger than
anything Napoleon ever saw, are led by men
whose names may be Briggs and Jenkinson
for all the public knows to the contrary;
and dozens of other generals arei also gust
Briggs and Jenkinson. Outside Lille there
was fought the other day a bigger scrap, as
regards the numbers engaged, than feala-
raanca. It was specially mentioned because
it was mostly a cavalry upheaval, and that
put it in a category by itself. No name was
given to it. It was merely an item in leagues
of long-drawn-out Sheol. And both com-
manders might have been called S. Jones
for all the fame they got. Bill Adams, who
won the battle of Waterloo, was well advised
inasmuch as he chose an epoch when Bill
bad a chance to catch his commander s eye.
Nowadays lie is a germ on a frontier. When
the war is finished it will be necessary to
send along 10 coal-scuttles full of Victoria
HIE OLD FERRYMAN HAS A BUSY DAY.
crosses, and distribute them at random, and
the decoration of the Legion of Honor will
be put in a heap outside Paris, so that the
returning soldier may help himself. .As for
the German iron cross, the dead weight of
it is already interfering with the mobility
of the troops.
* * * *
The “bush lawyer” is a boon and a bless-
ing to the real thing. An Adelaide court
has been investigating the strange case of a
will which left property to eight people.
After the funeral they got together and read
it. Then some clever person of the Bush
variety suggested that, to show they approved
of it, they should all sign it! And they
did. The result was that it looked more
like a partnership agreement, or a Parlia-
mentary petition, than a will, and the Court
at first sight threw it out as hopeless. How-
ever, a strong affidavit by all parties con-
cerned finally got it accepted. Many of
life’s difficulties seem to melt away if you
only swear hard enough.
Simultaneously with the cable
that General French, has a staff of
600 interpreters comes word that
Portugal is now in the Great
Trouble on the side of the Allies.
It looks as though French will need
all his interpreters. Never in the
history of the world has a battle-
field been such a babel of tongues.
Besides Belgians, French, English,
Scotch and Irish, there are Wal-
loons, Senegalese, Australians,
French-Canadians and Canadian-
Sikhs, Pathans, Ghurkas. Turcoes
Americans, Thursday Islanders,
and Japs; also Russians, Tartars,
Finns, Buriats and strange horse-
men from the Caucasus, any of
whom may come round by sea and
want to speak to French. Now the
Portuguese add themselves to the
shindy, while the Maoris want to
add their weird battle-cry to the
uproar, and the handful of people
of the Nieue Islands send their
offering of £l2O and a word to “the
King and the men who fight” that
they would like to contribute 200
warriors to the conflagration.
A quaint mob of Red Men in Canada rose
up last week, and painted themselves bright
blue with green stripes, and put buffalo's
feathers in their hair, and tendered then-
services for the war. Being a very ineffi-
cient lot, despite their picturesqueness, the
offer was declined. Yet, as a matter of
pure stage effect, it seems a pity. If the
Calmutk and the Bokhariot and the Buriat
and the Red Indian and the Ghoorka and
the Maori and the Zulu and the Turco and
the Senegali all got drunk together in Berlin
on Christmas Eve it would be the most
wonderful black, brown, red and yellow
drunk on record. And Berlin, as a 1 russian
city which was founded by Dutchmen and
which bosses Germany, deserves a mixed
drunk. # *
Melbourne’s old cable-tram system has its
champions. A suburban councillor protested
the other week that, “as a man who had
travelled all over the world, he could say
that with more modern machinery and an
accession of speed, their cable tramways
would be second to none.” ‘All over tue
world” seems a long way to go for so little
information. Many a man who hasnt
travelled beyond Collingwood knows plenty
of horses that could win the Melbourne Cup
if only they were about five minutes faster
over the mile.
PEOELE IN GLASS DOUSES, ETC.
MRS. FASHUN: “I see you don't despise the
prevailing fashion, Mrs. Falun.”
MRS. FATUN: "Oh, no, my dear. But don 't
it give up the family skeletons. My!
But that bandy-legged, knock-kneed, skinny
crew would make a cat laugh."
THE TROOPSHIPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’ll leave the sheltered harbor?,
They’ll sail from roadsteads wide.
The mooring buoys are swinging
At will of wind and tide.
At dawn ar.d noon or sunset
We’ll see the troopships go.
“Good-bye!” their whistles bid us,
Their engines beating slow —
“Good-bye! Good luck! God bless you!”
And that is all we’ll know.
But in our thoughts we’ll follow
And, not in vain, may guess
Their smoke shall smear the sea-line
From Sydney to Sheerness;
Of all rude Ocean’s roadways
The longest course they'll run.
By stars they’ll steer them bravely,
By reckoning and sun.
Though long the road to London,
For those who sail alone,
With British bugles blowing
The roads shall be their own.
They'll wait awhile and gather
At some lone ocean place,
And loiter till the laggards
Flave won again to grace.
And from the sea-line, smoking,
Will come lean cruisers grey,
With hard-lipped guns to convoy
The “troopers” on their way.
The dawns shall glow behind them,
The high moons blaze o’erhead ;
The afternoon shall swiftly
Fade into sunsets red.
And onward, hurrying onward,
The splendid ships will go —
And west they’ll steer and nor’ard
Though gales of winter blow ;
Though hearts grow weary, longing
For sunlit lands again,
The transport fleet will thunder
Its way across the main ;
With mighty engines singing
A ; song of clanging wars,
They’ll roll away to London
Beneath the northern stars.
They’ll steam into the distance,
From narrow bays and wide.
The mooring-buoys to hold them
Are rocking in the tide.
In sunlight or in rain-squall
We’ll watch them fade and go.
“Good-bye” their whistles bid us
The deep notes sobbing low,
“Good-bye! Good luck ! God bless you”—
And that is all we’ll know.
N.B.W.
WILL LAWSON.


jfgj
fgj
fgj
A SENSE of satisfaction is experienced
every time one wears a pair of
Bostock boots, ai-d from this con-
sciousness of their tine quality springs a
natural and legitimate pride. One feels
that they will contribute to ease and
elegance on the most exacting occasions,
and one knows that their high quality
will be recognised every time they are
handled. This sense of satisfaction is
the inevitable effect of the choice leather
and beautiful work so conspicuous in
every pair of Bostocks. They are the
cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at
the leading stores, and ladies should call before
the choicest styles are sold.
SOI
m
m
st
Style 585
The "AERO-CRASH SUIT
THE LIGHT SUIT THAT LASTS
Aero-crash is a light Washing Material of plain Biscuit
shade, equally as cool as the white materials, but not so
likely to soil. The material is thoroughly shrunk before
being sent from England, but we subject it to a further test
before making it up.
We quote S.B. Sac Style, as illustrated, with 4 outside patch
pockets, and detachable buttons —ideal for beach, lounge or
bush wear.
25/-
Also in S.B. Patrol, at same prices.
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurement. Full
range of patterns and NEW CATALOGUE, beautifully illus-
trated in colors, sent on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
3U9 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Lear Bulletin : Re the Kaiser. I think
the current newspaper assaults on him are
tending in the wrong direction. A daily
paper poet called him “Liar” 14 times the
other day. Most people are liars —especially
poets. Why all this excitement over a lie
or two? Others sneer at his lack of culture.
A further crowd are annoyed at the
destruction of Louvain Cathedral, which
most of them never saw, or had a hope of
seeing, or even thought about before the
war. Let us get down to essentials: —
If poems are going to end the war by
shaming the Kaiser, and touching his heart,
I think that plain, straightforward work
along the above lines must be the most
effective. —Yours, etc., Albert Subbubs.
OVERSTOCKED.
DEALER: “ You buy that feller, Jacky? ”
J ACKY: “No feah! One plurry talkin' machine's 'niff for me.”
“Stripey” : The Law can be just as bad an
ass in cultured Adelaide as anywhere else.
Two men, who were alleged to be running a,
sweep on the Melbourne Cup, were charged
with having used a room in the city for the
purpose of gaming, contrary, etc. A circu-
lar, which was put in as evidence, was sisrned
by one of the defendants (D. 11. Robinson) ;
it was headed, “Why send your money out of
the State?”; confided to the public that this
was "a unique opportunity to gain £2OOO for
the sum of 2s. 0d.,” and frankly added that
“the mere fact of my signing as managing-
director and giving my address is in itself a
guarantee of its genuineness.” A police
search of the room revealed all the neces-
saries for sweep promotion in the form of
tickets, etc.; also, it revealed the other
defendant, Martin, who admitted that the
room was occupied by the firm of Robinson
and Martin, that the firm was registered,
and that he was the Martin end of it. After
a witness had given evidence to the etleet
that he had sent money for four tickets
which he didn’t get, the Law began
to flap its ears in a suspicious man-
ner. At that interesting stage, how-
ever, the solicitor for the defendants sued
for the dismissal of Robinson on the grounds
that he had “not even been identified.” The
Crown Prosecutor made the reasonable re-
quest that, as the Court had accepted the
registration of the firm of Robinson and
Martin, the solicitor who filed the affidavits
might be called to identify Robinson. The
Commissioner, being no other than the
solicitor for the defendants in the case,
claimed privilege in this matter, and the
objection was upheld. So the S.M. decided
that he must dismiss the charge against
Robinson; further, he held that there was
now no evidence against Martin, for, “though
ho might have known that Robinson was
carrying on that business, the prosecution
had failed to show that he had any know-
ledge of it.” Thereupon the Law stood on
its forelegs,_ and charged itself £2 2s. costs;
and the solicitor for the defendants took the
Commissioner for Affidavits out and shouted
himself a drink.
* * • * *
War becomes more and more a hard busi-
ness. Pomp and glory merely irritate the
modern worKing warrior, and publicity drives
him mad. The other day some well-meaning
ladies presented a flag to a Sydney corps.
There was the usual fuss, and afterwards the
officers had the ladies to tea and thanked
them in their cleanest uniforms. They said
that the flag was beautiful, and that the regi-
ment (it is a regiment with a particularly
exacting job) would hang on to it until the
lid blew off Hades and afterwards. Then,
when the cooing donors had rustled off the
premises the commanding officer looked sourly
at the present, reminded everybody that it
would require a guard day and night, and
asked why in thunder they hadn’t thought of
giving a typewriter instead ! Now, would it
occur to anybody to give a conquering hero
a typewriter?
WHAT?
“I should fancy your husband was a very
difficult man to satisfy.”
“He is. Why, sometimes he isn't satisfied
with me.”
“Henry Horsecollar”: It seems, after all,
that the more the rifle and the machine gun
are improved the more the bayonet comes
back into its kingdom. Never for 100 years,
unless history is a wild-cat prospectus, has
man stuck cutlery into his brother by hand
on such generous principles as he has done
of late. In days when big cannon have
mouths like Jenolan Caves and are alleged
to carry eight miles without difficulty, there
is something mediaeval about last Monday’s
cablegram re the Russian infantry which
refused to wait for the arrival of the guns,
the rush on the German entrenchments, the
wiping out of Hans Sauerkraut, the
“gigantic Russian captain” who slew pro-
miscuously, and the chaplain who carried
the cross and the blessing of the Orthodox
Church in the heat of the scrimmage. All
that was required was a prophetess with
hair hanging down her back to make it read
like Troy over again.
* * * *
Letter from a man who is trying to get
into the Australian Expeditionary Force
I was passed into the infantry in , but when
it came to the last stage of examination and I saw
no chance of fooling the doctor on the eye-test, I
side-stepped. I then applied to the police, hoping to
beat them; but, failing there, I personally inter-
viewed the chief medical officer for enrolment with
the Army Medical Corps, whose business I knew a
bit. My poor sight wouldn’t matter for work which
did not include long-distance shooting. When inter-
viewing the doctor I therefore wore my “blinkers,”
and he gently but firmly refused me. As I came
away I met about 400 senior cadets swinging along
the street. Right opposite where I stood was a
color-sergeant, a fine boy, who caught the eye at
once —and he wore rimless glasses. Yet the doctor
who had just passed me out had talked of the
unsightliness of glasses on parade. I grabbed this
text, and wrote a last appeal to the A.M.C. on the
off-chance. The doc. told me to come up for examination.
And then it was discovered that my eyes were not
too bad, after all, but I struck trouble through a
deformed toe! I suggested amputation, and the
doctor seemed struck with the idea, so a couple of
days later I laid down to it. When I was able to
examine what was left I found the toe was still
there, but somewhat altered by the shifting of a
knuckle, a bit of bone and two knobs of meat. The
doc. seemed rather proud of it. Whether I get
through this time defends on how this toe gets on
during the next six days.
The war hasn’t stopped the Panama Expo-
sition, to be held in ’Frisco, and the news
that part of the isthmus has careered into
the big ditch will hardly stop it either.
Which is a good thing for the select crowd
who have snared jobs as N.S.W. representa-
tives, trade commissioners, etc. If money
must be saved, the Holman Government
much prefers to save it by putting the screw
on the hospitals and asylums. Chief Secre-
tary Cann stated the other day that unless
the citizens supplied the coin some of these
refuges of the afflicted poor would have to
close. But he didn’t mention anything about
closing down on Neilsen and his £4-a-day-
and-exes. and the whole expensive ’Frisco
outfit.
A matrimonial (divorce)
case is not a “civil action,”
so the South Aus. Supreme
Court has just decided;
therefore the rule requiring
the party who demands a
jury to pay for it does not
apply. The immediate re-
sult is that the suffering
country has to pay the bill
of £194 for jury fees in a
recent long-drawn case. The
indirect result will be that
one side or other will demand
a jury in every case. Thus
a lot of casual citizens are
going to get moderately well
paid for sitting and listening
to lurid details about the
iniquity of Tertium Quid,
which is Latin for Lodger.
During last week most of Sydney fed
humbly on husks, like the Prodigal Son.
The misfortune wasn’t the result of riotous
living—not the direct result, anyway. It
just happened to be a week with a Bakers’
Union picnic in it, and a picnic is a very
serious affair requiring much preparation.
The official programme was impressive to
the last degree. The bakers, with the
revelry of Wednesday before them, went to
work at 10 o’clock on Monday morning and
put in their six or eight hours. Then there
was a long, cold rest for the ovens until
Thursday, for the bakers objected to go to
work on Tuesday and risk wearying them-
selves for the important business of the
picnic of Wednesday. A few unreasonable
people who objected to bread that had to be
smashed with a hammer padded to the shops
on Thursday night to get new bread and
indigestion; the reasonable population
gnawed something like armor-plate till the
carters made their leisurely call again on
Friday. No doubt about it: Sydney in these
days is a perfect of a place for the
downtrodden working man.
* * * *
The mysterious ways of the kind Pro-
vidence which nowadays watches over the
press! Adelaide papers, like the rest, were
not allowed to say a word about the depar-
ture of some recent emigrants, either on
the day they went or the next day ; but the
commanding officer’s parting manifesto and
the patriotic speeches in both Houses of
Parliament were reported prominently and
ia full!
* * * *
Several of the big theatrical firms of Syd-
ney want to cancel the registration of the
Musicians’ Union as an industrial organisa-
tion, and the union says it is quite willing.
In effect, the union declares that it is power-
ful enough to get what it wants without
Arbitration laws, and is happy to be relieved
of the obligation of respecting them. It may
be bluff, but the Musicians’ Union has a
pretty fair hand to bluff on. Last year it
was able to start a campaign which forced
practically all the remaining non-union pro-
fessional musicians in Sydney into its ranks.
But though the union might do better for
itself by discarding Arbitration, there are
others to consider. Arbitration wasn’t in-
vented for the benefit of employees, or even
of employees and employers. It was invented
primarily for the benefit of the
industrial Belgians, so to speak, who would
otherwise be trampled on by industrial Ger-
mans and Allies alike. Moreover, in dis-
crediting Arbitration the musicians damage
the prospects of other unionists for whom
that principle is the only hope. No doubt it
isn’t all the union’s fault. The theatrical
employers crushed relentlessly the desire of
other sections of their employees to organise,
and they harassed the musicians also. In
some cases they victimised them; and the
fierceness of the union’s resentment for non-
unionists, the huge entrance fee demanded in
' rder to make newcomers pay for benefits
thusfar secured, and the feeling that it is fair
to get anything that can be got by any means
that can be used, are all more or less trace-
able to the employers’ hostile attitude.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Somebody lately suggested in
The Bulletin that the censor should stop
the publication of all tales of German
wartrocities on the ground that many of
them are probably faked and the truthful
ones can serve no purpose save to inflame the
anti-German minds of unreasonable citizens.
To which motion I beg to propose an amend-
ment. Let all pro : Britisli anecdotes of
alleged German brutality be suppressed as
soon as the circulation of obscene German
picture-postcards, expressing hatred and
contempt for “John Bull” soldiery, are pro-
hibited by the Kaiser’s Government. Till
then a policy of deprecating ill feeling
against the nation that slings muck at
everything British, steals the money of
British subjects from German banks, plots
the destruction of British!cities through the
agency of treacherous German residents
thereof, and is altogether a much dirtier-
dog nation than the world of three months
ago had suspected it of being—till then the
policy of suppression suggested by the other
Bulletin contributor would be magnani-
mity gone mad.
TO WILHELM.
Blighter and Skunk! Through your insensate act
My tenants cannot pay their weekly rents;
Or, anyhow, they say they can’t, the which
Amounts to .very much the same to me.
Egregious Ass! Because you choose to fight,
My overdraft (which erst lay like a lamb
In voiceless quietude) bursts from its lair
And hisses in my banker’s ear o’ nights,
So that he writes me brusquely, thus: “Dear Sir, —-
Two thousand pounds is what you owe us now.”
As though I knew it not as well as he,
And all the skilled accountants of his staff!
Solely because 3'ou want to see the works
Of your infernal War Machine revolve,
My income is reduced by more than half,
And wheresoe’er I go I am bailed up
By hard-faced females, avid after cash,
To buy our troops pyjamas, sand-shoes, socks,
Shirts, Balaklava helmets, evening suits,
Footballs and wristlet watches, Bibles, ties,
Straw-, bowler-, silk-, felt-, cloth-, and gibus hats,
And many other requisites of war.
I estimate that, in the last two months,
Sufficient money has been lured from me
To stock a fairly large suburban store:
Nor is the end by any means in sight.
Has it occurred to your degraded mind
That, as the outcome of this rotten war,
No bar in all the Commonwealth is safe
From blatant persons who explain the way
To pulverise Von Kluck and sack Berlin,
Ere padding slowly homeward to their teas?
Do you, you Public Nuisance, realise
That by your antics we in this far land
Have had an army corps of poets hurled
Full at our throats ; and regiments of bores
Of ev’ry sort and shape and size to boot ?
These are the reasons, Kaiser, for our scorn,
The circumstances which explain the fact
That we regard you as some wayside worm,
While ever on our lips such words are found
As Outcast, Fool, Disgusting Cad and Hound.


OVERWORKED. -(A case for the Factories Act.)


Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
LOGICAL DYSPEPSIA TREATMENT.
IMPORTANCE OF ELIMINATING
ACIDITY AND FOOD FERMENTATION.
During the past two or three years reports
have frequently appeared in the press con-
cerning the remarkable value of bisurated
magnesia as an antacid; and its ability to
promote normal, healthy digestion by pre-
venting food fermentation and neutralising
dangerous stomach acid has often been
demonstrated. Until recently chemists could
supply bisurated magnesia in powder form
only, half a teaspoonful of which, taken in
a little water after meals, almost instantly
stops all fermentation and neutralises acid,
but sufferers from stomach trouble will be
glad to learn that, after a long series of
experiments, a leading firm of manufactur-
chemists has now succeeded in producing
a 5-grain mint-flavored tablet and also an
effervescent tablet, both of which combine
all the valuable antacid .properties of the
ordinary bisurated magnesia in a verv con
venient form. These new tablet* of
bisurated magnesia can now be obtained of
chemists everywhere, and many physicians
are already prescribing them instead* of the
powder form,*
Sydney,
Ifth December, IS9.’i.
Hklidon Spa Water Co.
Dear Sir, —
The following is analysis of the sample of
your mineral water left with me:—
Grains per pal.
This water contains move lithia than any of
the European Spa Waters, except that from the
Murquelle, at Baden Baden, which contains lithia
as chloride, and it is also much richer in car-
bonate of sodium, though Birresbovn, in Prussia,
and Bilin. in Bohemia, approach it.
This water would be used as an antacid and
diuretic, the latter effect being due to the lithia.
1 remain, yours truly,
WILL A. DIXON, f.i.c., f.c.s.
We now give an explanation of the
virtues of some of the salts which the
water holds in solution :
Bicarbonate of Ijithia. —An alka-
line which has solvent powers on Uric
Acid, forming with it a soluble salt, thus
destroying concretions. Purifies the
blood through the kidneys.
Carbonate of Sodium. —For gouty
and uric acid diathesis. Assists the
action of the biliary organs, checks food
fermentation.
Chloride of Sodium.—A gentle stimu-
lant to the liver and secretions. In-
creases the action of the skin, promoting
perspiration.
In conclusion, we briefly submit that the con-
sumption of Helidon Spa gives health and com-
fort to all who use it. Indigestion is instantly
removed, restlessness gives way to a calm feeling
of tranquillity, a refreshing sleep is often in-
duced, feverish thirst is allayed at once, and
when the water is taken with milk, in the morn-
ing. a marked improvement in health will follow.
It must be remembered that no water hitherto
discovered is so retentive of carbonic acid gas,
which makes its persistent and sparkling efferves-
cence more agreeable to the palate, and also
more grateful to the stomach.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Lagani-Namo”: Whilst taking a census
of the Trobriand Group (Papua), in 1905, the start-
ling discovery was made that over 10 per cent, of
fhe 10,000 inhabitants had some form or other of
venereal disease. The authorities put it. down to
the American whaling ships which occasionally looked
in there, a century or so before any white nation
thought of hoisting' its flag' on Papua. The natives,
though, blamed various pourri-pourri men for the
infliction, and laughed scornfully when the white
folk told them that the disease could be acquired
by contact. Anyhow, a lock hospital was estab-
lished, and a squad of native police, under a Euro-
pean patrol officer, was kept busy inspecting- the
villages for the tainted and despatching them to
Eboma. At length the natives couldn’t help recog-
nising the efficacy of 'medical treatment. The last
report shows that, instead of 10 per cent., only 1.87
per cent, have any venereal disease. If you notice
a native boy or girl in an unusual hurry in the
Trobriands to-day you can safely wager e I
to a cocoanut that the stampede is in the direction
of the hospital. All the native pourri-pourri men
(magicians), who formerly waxed fat by quackery
in this line of business, have “filed their shovels,”
as would the scores of quacks at present operating
in Australia, if the idiots who fatten them had the
sense of the Trobrianders and would go to a re-
putable and qualified medical man.
OUR DUMB FRIEND (WHO THINKS
A LOT).
PONDEROUS FEMALE: “You know, dear, I
think one of the worst features of the war
is the perfectly shocking treatment the
poor unfortunate horses get.”
“Skibbo”: He reckoned he was a slap-
bang “diviner” ; not only could he find water, but
he could get it fresh by carrying a bottle of fresh
water in his left hand. Of course, the working of it
was a trade secret. Next morning he started on the
job, but had not returned at mutton-time. We dis-
covered him in a pub four miles away that night.
Questioned as to how the investigations were going, he
replied: ell, I got a straight lead from the jump.
The rod and bottle were going good ; but some
cow must have left some beer in that bottle.”
“Moana”: Maorilanders, especially in the
South Island, are great lovers of the Australian gum;
and there’s trouble brewing for the man who sharpens
his axe to lay into one of the vegetables. At
Christchurch recently two fine, 60-year-old eucalypts
on the bank of the Avon were cut down by order of
the City Council, because, it was said, they had been
attacked by “blight.” If the mayor himself had
been publicly cut down there couldn’t have been a
bigger row. Even in out-of-the-way places, Volcano-
land protects its gum trees. The other day I was
strolling round portion of the sea coast of the
South Island, miles from anywhere, when I came
across half a dozen really fine gums. They must
have been 70 or 80 years old, at the least, and
were probably planted by early whalers. A notice
board stated that these herbs were protected by a
special county by-law, and warned lunatics with
axes to keep away. In another part of Maoriland,
the other day, a furious county council election was
fought over a few fine gums on the sea shore. One
set of brigands had intimated that if elected it
would “remove” the trees —out of pure cussedness,
presumably. So another party was organised under
the banner “To Save the Gums,” and after a strenu-
ous contest it was elected. Even Australia could
hardly do more than that for its old friend.
* * * *
“Ginger”: There are many spots in the
wide Outback where the Warden’s law fizzles out and
the diggers’ law puts a half-Nelson on the malefactor.
The “roll-up” of the prospectors at gold-rushes, or
the “nmck-heap trial” of the opal-gougers, gives an
accused a fair run for his money. The verdict is
unerring and the punishment always adequate. There
is no appeal. We stood up one of the “Ragged
Thirteen” at a “roll-up” (charge of murder) at
Mount Ida (W.A.), but the absence of loot, and the
fact that both the principals were drunk when the
affair happened, strengthened the case for the
defence —that the tragedy was the result of a
drunken frolic. Accused was acquitted and ordered
off the field. Life isn’t worth much to a man
“ordered off" on the eastern goldfields of W.A.
This man eked out his future living in a blacks’
camp. There was a case of a “roll-up” at Mos-
quito Creek (W.A.). Defendant, being ordered off,
wandered a few miles out of camp and hung him-
self. A man ordered off at a “muck heap trial”
at Lightning Ridge fared better. lie became a
union organiser and a candidate for a seat in the
Mouse of Reps. The most extraordinary sort of a
“roll-up” 1 ever ran across -was. at Komunburra
(Vic.) during the protracted strike in that district.
Thirty women laid hold of and court-martialled
three non-unionists. Thirty Cousin Jinnies, all talk-
ing at the one time, condemned them to be ducked
in a, convenient waterhole —a veritable cesspit, green
and vile of odor. They were ducked forthwith. One
enthusiastic amazon followed her man in and soused
him, to the accompaniment of shrill hooting.
* * * *
“Moana”: This frantic tearing up and
exporting of “Our Great Natural Resources” is a
sorry business. Here's a sample of how it
progresses in Maoriland. Fifteen years ago
the Waikaka Valley, at the southern end of
the Ricketty Isles, was one of the best pieces
of agricultural land in the State. It was a
beautiful strip of rich river flat, 20 miles
lons’ by about two wide,
intensely cultivated and
supporting dozens of fam-
ilies, and it would have
gone on supporting them
indefinitely. Then someone
discovered alluvial gold,
and someone else said the
useless substance could be
worked payably with mod-
ern gold dredges; and
almost before you could
turn round most of the
farms had been sold to syn-
dicates, which proceeded to
tear up the land and comb out the yellow
dust. For 15 years the groan of the dredge
has been heard; and now' the once smiling
Wailtaka Valley is buried deep in silt and
barren tailings. A system which destroys the
country’s permanent sources of wealth in order
that one generation may have a little extra
fatness calls for discouragement by vigorous
manslaughter.
“Yarrum”: At Newbridge (N.S.W.) the
other day six fine draught horses—one a stallion, the
pride of the district—were hauling a plough through
an embankment on the deviation works. Part of the
embankment gave, whereupon a leader lost his foot-
ing, fell over the edge, and hung in his chains and
collar 28ft. above the road. His mate was dragged
to the brink, and presently fell, and hung with the
other, screaming and kicking in mid-air. After a
while, the next pair were dragged by the weight,
foot by foot, inch by inch, to the edge; and they
too fell. Then the four animals hung together, and
the added weight was fast telling upon the remaining
two horses and the deep-buried plough. The stallion
behind got on his knees, and hung on for all he was
worth. He fought like 20 tigers, and the screams of
him haunt me still. He, too, reached the brink,
fighting every inch, and rolled. Just then the
couplings broke, and the suspended four fell to the
road, two bursting. The stallion came down fair
upon his feet, and two legs and his back were broken.
Groaning dreadfully, he lay over among lxis pals and
died. The last maddened horse and the plough
toppled over later with tons of whitish clay. After
all, I think I’d rather see men die. When the dust
had cleared, the owner of the creatures, a poor but
strong man, came along and wept like a child.
LIKE THE SHAKSPEARE-BACON TROUBLE.
LIBERAL PARTY (trying to explain away his defeat): “And in conclusion, ladies and
gentlemen , I emphatically say that the Labor Tarty is not the Labor party,
and that all the progressive legislation in Australia to-day is due to another
party of the same name!”
“Eddy.son”: “Didju ever hear how
McCarthy kim t' llooley be tillegraft?” asked Flynn.
Without waiting for a reply he resumed, as was his
wont: “He did, annyway; ’n’ I’m agreeable t’
narrate thim circumstances in their intoirity.
McCarthy was coortin’ wid Nellie Dwyer et llooley
the time, in encrgitic competition wid Tim Hennessey,
’n’ he kim rulin' ’long the ould Ballarat-road,
jaunty ez Young Loekinfar, who kim outer the West.
Yill maybe rimimber big talk was in the counthry
thim days iv a wild lion roarin’ ’n’ rampagin' in the
hills here ’n’ adjacent, the same havin’ escaped frim
a circus, be all accounts, though nivir did I see him
rampage or hear the roar iv him, nor iver did I meet
wan man, not in dthrink or dishtiirbed in the brain,
seen sich an animal, ’r hear-rd .the v’ice iv him wan
way ’r the other. Shtill, big talk was here, ’n’ all
the way reachin’ east, west, north V south, iv the
Langoorie Lion ; 'll’ manny a bould bye wint fearful
iv nights becaze iv the riputation he had, ’n’ the
length iv the eie-toot’ iv him. A fut frim root t’
tip it was. Tom McCarthy talked big ’n’ large iv
the slavin’ iv wild lions be day, but ’twas a thriflin’
different mather t’ see a lion in the middle iv the
road be night. Tom’s horse ’twas first seen the
Lion iv Langoorie, ’n' ’twas right in the public high-
way, wither the mild slice iv a moon, flippin’ its
ears, V doin’ nothin’ else at all. But Tom’s horse
give a shnort would blow a cow over, V sat himsilf
down on In's tail. At which, seein’ the wild lion,
’n’ bein’ took sudden wid qualms iv the shtomaek,
Tom McCarthy fell off his horse, ’n’ jumpin’ et the
nearest tillegraft post, shtruck it V stuck like a
gob iv clay free fut up. ITe tuk wan more look et
the lion, ’n’ it flapped the right ear wid such
feerosity Tommy wint up the pole ez a fly would
walk the wall. Man, lie had to! Tom McCarthy had
a mind t’ make more careful obsarvations frim the
woires; but, bearin’ in mind the wild lion was a
great lepper ’n’ shpringer, Tom contint himsilf wid a
hurried ’n’ careless inspiction, the same dishclosin’
threatenin’ movemints on the par-rt iv the baste.
’Tis no shmall doin’ t’ make free good miles on a
tillygraft woire, mind yeh. Fortunit there was siven
woires, ’r aight, ’n’ McCarthy c’u’d cling be wan
’n’ walk be annither, ’n’ ev’ry yar-rd he wint he
thought he heard the Langoorie Lion paddin’ down
the thrack, ’n’ thirstin’ for his blood. So Tom
McCarthy kim into Hooley be tillegraft four hours
later, a dishthracted man wid the hands near cut off
him, ’n’ the boots iv his fut sawed t’roo ’n’ t’roo, ’n’
he fill on the rooft iv the posht-office where the
woire goes in, ’n’ rolled t’ the skillion wid triminjis
uproar, ’n’ frim there t’ the ground, where Tanner
found him, coinin’ out in his shir-rt t’ investigate
the dishturbance. Tom was that ixhaust he c’u’d
on’y wliishper the wan wor-rd, ‘Lion!’ But he come
round sufficient t’ lay an infor-r-mation, ’n’ a party
wid guns, ’n’ axes, ’n’ an ould swoord belonged t’
Napoleon (left t’ Scanlan be his great-grand-aunt)
wint out in the dim, mor-rnin’ light f hunt the lion.
They found the baste all right, ’if ’twas nothin’ at
all but a bag iv carrots dthropped frim a dthray ’if
bust open, ’if a greedy rabbit, ’r maybe two, inside
puttin’ the life in it. ’Tis years ’if years agone,
but Tom McCarthy is known to this day frim wan
ind iv Bungaree to the other as the ‘Live Woire.’ ”
THE FURY OF JEALOUSY.
SUSPICIOUS H USBAND: “Any visitors to-
day?”
PLAYFUL WIFIE: “Only Aunt Lucy."
SUSPICOUS H USBAND: “ Well, then , Aunt
Lucy's left her pipe behind her."
“Spraggs”: Jacky, the boundary rider,
who had conic up from down-stream with fats,
sighted his first train at Bourke, puffing along in the'
distance. We explained things to him. After he’d
got his second wind he returned his verdict: “By
Oip.es! Mine bin tinkit dat pfeller bin plurry
river-steamer lookin’ for water.”
AN EXILE’S REPININGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The days arc becoming hot in Sydney. It is still
winter in Maoriland. —News item.
The wild south wind for n.e !
Dark, murky clouds, a lowering sky,
And the whipping hail goes hurtling by
O’er forest and hill and swirling sea—
The wild south wind for me!
The frost and snow for me!
White mountains in their glittering pall,
Blue, ice-bound liver and waterfall,
Bright shining shrub and shimmering tree —•
The frost and snow for me!
The breaker's spray for me!
Through screaming gulls and surging waves,
Past headlands rough and rocky caves,
Back to get cool I think I’ll flee—
The breaker’s spray for me!
N.S.W.
SHIRT SLEEVES.
“Bill Bowang”: I was interested in the
N.Q. trepang industry some years back, and know
something about the huge clam found on the main
Barrier lleef. It is a. different species from that
found on the coral reefs which hug the shore line:
The latter are generally known as the frilled clam.
On the main reef, 00 miles east from Townsville, 1
once saw portion of a clam which; when it was a
living individual, must have easily weighed over a
ton. Years ago two divers arrived in Oooktown and
stated that in one of their plunges they had seen
two clams which were as big as the side of a medium
pub or a small Holman loan. Several local resi-
dents became interested, and an . effort was made, to
bring the shells to the surface, but the hauling gear
would not stand the strain, and so far as I know .the
shells arc still lying as low as Wilhelm’s fleet.


810-SHOWMEN!
T HERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE." Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George
Street, Sydney.
DUPLEX
i=i-y^rei
Heres
FOR
MEN
OF
ACTION
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. 11. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
J Hvmcceei,
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
ijl
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints,
For Ftee Sample enclose Two Penny Stamp-.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole Wholesale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
•FOUNDED 1888
PHILLIPS • ORMONDE&O
Consu/Arnp fng/ncer®, PafenA rf/for-ncViS
7rx3c/cAvar*Atocn/a • I7OUEEN S T
MELBOURNE
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
LUX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
\ i
(\U 77, <7 J
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY
“I*. Purplestraw”: Most of the cookies I
know are tired to death of the city bushman’s cheap
advice to the effect that they could escape the woes
of drought by water conservation and irrigation. As
a matter of fact, there’s hardly any loss of stock
so far frotp want of water. Mine’s only a small
place, but still I’ve got a couple of tanks—called
dams, I understand, in Hyde Park —with enough
water in them to drown a few thousand of the tire-
some bores I’ve mentioned. It is the same right
away out —fair supplies of water; dreadful famine
of feed. As for irrigation, how is the farmer going
to irrigate on his own account? And, even if he
could, do they know any instance where wheat farm-
ing is successfully practised on a big scale under
irrigation? As a matter of fact, it isn't, anywhere.
So the man who tells us that we would escape our
troubles if we conserved and irrigated is disrespect-
fully informed that (1) we have, as a rule, con- •
served enough for our stock; (2) to be of any use
for irrigation the water must be on the highest part
of our land : and somehow surface water insists on
running down hill, so we mostly put our tanks on
the low levels of our country to catch it; (3) if we
did irrigate, it wouldn’t pay us to grow wheat that
way—anyhow, it doesn’t pay any other white men,
even in the western parts of the United States, where
moisture is plentiful; (4) he is a fool.
# * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: The natives at Pleasant
and Ascension Islands are great bird fanciers. In
every village perches of big bamboo and lawyer
cane are built to accommodate frigate-birds, which
are caught young, and kept leg-roped in the village
until they become reconciled to the place. Then
their leg anchors are removed, and replaced with
identification bangles of pearl or tortoiseshell. After
that the frigates are free to come or go at will.
Occasionally they bring in a silvery kingfisli to pay
for their lodging. (They board themselves.) At the
little island of Sim-Sim, on the S.E. coast of Papua,
the natives look upon certain seagulls as sacred,
and it is not unusual to sec apparently wild
gulls come flying in from the open ocean, descend
fluttering on the heads and shoulders of the natives,
and intimate that they would like to have their tails
stroked and to get a friendly scratch at the back of
tlie head.
CAUGHT IN THE MACHINERY.
MOTHER M OUSE: “Willie, haven't I warned
you not to go near that corn-cracker?”
A rare kind of fish was dragged out of
the sea near The Bluff (M.L.) the other day. In
appearance, face on, it looks more like a British
bulldog than anything else, and it is practically all
head and no bodv. Two short horns over the eyes
cause it to resemble the things that are usually on
view the morning after the night before. The fish
is known as the “Rock Lifter” and is very rare,
less than a dozen specimens having been captured to
date. Five of them are in the Melbourne Museum.
TRUE REFINEMENT.
CURATE (who has been asked to read Macaulay aloud to select “literary" society): —
“And if my standard bearer fall, as fall full well he may,
For never saw I promise yet of such a — him — eh —Dear me" (with inspiration)
“ such a BLANKY day."
“Billy Blue’”: There were new worship-
pers at St. Nicolas’s Church of England, Goulburn
(N.S.W.), a Sunday or two ago, when two laughing
jackasses insisted on attending the service. They seem
to have just dropped in after attending to some mice
and small birds in the roof. The rector, who had
preached to all sorts in his time,; objected to a frivo-
lous congregation from which the collection-plate had
no hopes, so he, the wardens and the sexton tried
to outflank the enemy. In this they failed, and
the grave birds were allowed to sit out the service.
They were visibly impressed.
* * * *
“Hayseed”: In moderately cool parts
what’s wrong with a second wheat-sowing during
the last months of this year ? In South Queensland
wheat has often been reaped in April and May as
the result of summer sowing. It is worth a decent
trial in N. S. Wales. Many Darling Downs farmers
are going to yoke up the plough-horses and have a
shot at it this year, and, with fair rains to start
with, and an ordinary season afterwards, some sort
of a crop is assured.
“Iy.C.M.G.” : The quaint; old puzzle called
heraldry is studied more or less in the modern
cowyard by the farmer who leaves himself enough
time to read his pumpkin and skimmed-milk weekly.
One of the butterfat publications lately printed an
illustrated article on Gue-
non’s escutcheon theory of
judging a milking cow.
The cow’s escutcheon isn't
a mere artificial decora-
tion ; it is formed of its
latter end and more par-
ticularly the visible part
of its milk reservoir, as
viewed from dead astern.
There are many variations,
and only the expert can
say with certainty that
Blossom is a milk baroness
in her own right, and
Cherry the first cousin of
a duke. I am looking for-
ward to the establishment
of a College of Cow
Heralds, and the annual
publication of the Birth-
day honors list in which
the Queen of the Show will bloom afresh as a Knight
Spinster.
“Aiteca” : Re kava, chewed or uncliewed,
there is no doubt that a purchaser of the root can
have it prepared according to his fancy, but in Fiji
the chewing is done only “by special request.” The
process is not so uninviting as it seems. There are
principles in the root which inhibit the flow of
saliva, and after the first mouthful is ready the
mouth is, and keeps, drier than the palm of the
hand. “Overseer” and “Tangent” (15. 1/10/’l4) are
both right about the effects of a jag. After years of
indulgence a peculiar scale comes on the skin. In-
cidentally, the fibre residual from the grog, laid on
fresh, is a specific for the agony following on a
stroke from a stingaree.
The tale of Casey’s rent: —
Scrivener rented 200 acres of malice land from
Casey, put in wheat, struck the drought, and never
garnered a grain. His horses died of sand impaction.
The Philistines, in the shape of McMoses (the store-
keeper) and his bailiff, came on him with a distress
warrant and seized everything portable. Scrivener
was broke when Casey came for the rent.
He found Scrivener leaning against the door vol-
ubly cursing the mallee and all that pertained to it.
A polite man was Casey.
“Good mornin’, Mr. Scrivener,” said he. “How’s
the crop ?”
“Lovely,” said Scrivener. “Look at it.” He waved
his hand towards the barren paddock and resumed his
cursing. Now that he had a listener he rose to the
occasion. He became eloquent. He hurled phosphor-
tinted profanity at the sun-baked sand. He con-
signed the lot and Casey with it to Hades and beyond.
Casey interrupted him.
“’Tis a shame,” he said, “to timpt the Almighty
wid sich langwidge. Would I be after getting any
rint for those 200 acres?”
“No, you blasted rackrenter! I’m broke.”
“Well, ye have a stripper an’ a waggon? I could
take them instid of the rint.”
“McMoses beat you, Casey. He took ’em this
morning.”
“Well, yer horses, Mr. Scrivener, and we’ll cry
quits.”
“ —■ horses filled themselves with sand,
Casey. It killed ’em.”
“Yer cow, Mr. Scrivener. ’Twill be better nor
nu thin’.”
“Cow’s dead, Casey.”
“Well, could ye give me a drink of wather, Mr.
Scrivener ?”
Scrivener looked at Casey a moment. Then he
produced the water-bag. He poured what, remained
into a pannikin, and handed it to the landlord.
“Good luck to you, Casey,” he said. “I don’t
want a receipt.”
“Ilag” : Westralia was the most expensive
eountrv to prospect tliat the writer knows of. In
the fever days, immediately after Southern Cross
and “Bayley’s” (Coolgardie), the carriage for horse
and camel teams from Southern Cross to Menzies
(140 miles) was £l2O per ton. Teams had to give
three-quarters of their capacity to water-tanks, and
they/ thought themselves lucky if they were able to
get these filled under £5O. The prospector who
struck water (even brackish with salt and mag-
nesia) was more delighted than he’d have been had
he “bottomed on gold.” Every gallon, when con-
densed, would be worth 2s. 6d. right along until
’96. It cost half-a-sov. to shout for your neddy (if
the neddy happened to be a camel you’d have to
separate yourself from £2, perhaps). Subsequently
condensers measured out water at £1 per hundred.
Cobb and Co. would carry you from The Cross to
C'colgardie for a tenner—swags a quid apiece.
Occasionally you could get oranges for 30s. a dozen.
At Menzies flour, sugar, chaff, oats and salt were
Is. lOd. per lb. ; butter and tea, 4s. ; tinned dog
and fruit, 2s. 6d. to 4s. ; eggs, 245. a dozen; spirits
(sometimes made on the premises), 30s. a bottle;
beer, 6s. If you owned a magnifying lens, a pair
of “dog poisoners” (leggings) and a hat to fit the
part, you called yourself “Mining Expert,” and by-
and-bye you’d stuff a portnwnteau. wth toufaful
specimens and hurry off Londomvard to float some
“buck” reef for £1,000,000 or so. Then a pic
turesque young aristocrat wearing a monocle would
drop down off Cobb and Co., with a letter to those
concerned” saying: “This will introduce to you
the Hon. Augustus Fitzdotterel, the Managing Dire
toi of The Great Geebung Proprietary. Ate
months later hundreds of tons of antediluvian
machinery would be dumped at the Great Geebun„,
and when it was in going order it would dawn on
the Hon. Fitzdotterel to look for the reef. M hat h-
found usually didn’t matter. The pile of machinery
would be left to the white ants and the brown rust.
*** ' *
“B.” : Jute is any price tlie foreign thief
likes to make it; and here we have a pest in our
rivers—the notorious water hyacinth—which a French
chemist, Professor Perrot, is turning into fibre m
Saigon and other parts of Indo-China for manufacture
into rope, twine, sailcloth, matting and jute bags, lie
merelv extracts the fibre from the stalks, dries it
and puts it on a loom. N.S.W. and Queensland
battle in vain against hyacinth-choked rivers, while
confining themselves to pelting the philoprogenitive
weeds with curses; but if they systematically gath-
ered them, dried them and sold them in the market,
or erected local looms and manufactured the affliction
into hempen articles for town and country, the river-
ways would be cleared, gunny bags would be cheaper,
and many people would find employment.
“Machete” : For the 914th time in 20 years
I have just come across the following fill-up in a
Sydney paper: —-
There is only one species of bird known whose bite
is poisonous, the ltpir N’Doob, or “bird of death,
of New Guinea. Loss of sight, convulsions and lock-
jaw arc symptoms which follow rapidly after an
attack.
I have met this weird romance in English, Scottish,
American, Australian and South African journals,
and might have pursued it through the columns of
the Chinese and Lapland press if 1 had been equal
to the job. It is interesting as a reminder of one
of the biggest swindles ever worked on the Royal
Geographical Society, which has had its leg well
pulled at odd times. Li the ’7o’s an individual
styling himself Captain Rennet turned up at the
Society’s headquarters and announced that he was the
sole surviVor of a ship which had been wrecked on
Xew Guinea. In that land, then almost unknown,
he said he had made discoveries which he would
divulge to the R.G.S. for a consideration. The
Society hit, and the Captain’s book duly appeared.
It contained all that the dauntless explorer had
promised, and more. In New Guinea lie had dis-
covered vast apes, tigers and buffaloes. Having shot
one buffalo he was much annoyed when an enormous
eagle swooped down'’and carried away the carcase in
its claws. As he was returning to camp the
accursed bird or pyramid reappeared and killed his
native retinue. This “fed up” the skipper, and he
left New Guinea, only staying his flight to inspect
a snow-covered volcano 30,000 feet high. lie was
particular to give the latitude and longitude of this
hillock, and that is where ho fell in. Someone
checked the captain’s figures and found that these
located the 30,000-footer at a spot where the Ad-
miralty chart said there was 3000 feet of blue water,
and nothing solid within a wide radius. The ex-
plorer hurriedly departed for Callao, and his book
went out of print. The only copy of it the writei
has seen was in the Anglican Mission at Dogura, on
the N.E. coast of Papua.
A PAINFUL MISUNDERSTANDING.
APPLICANT FOR JOB: “I've come erbout that
job wot was advertised."
EMPLOYER: “ Well , and can you do the
work?”
APPLICANT (in great alarm): “WORK!
thort it was a foreman yer wanted!"
JOY FOR THE HEATHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. N. K. Bushell, who has been a police magis-
trate in Papua for the past two years, informed a
reporter that when the constabulary was called out,
it was a most difficult thing at first to impress upon
the natives that they might have to hold up a white
man, and possibly shoot him. “The natives had
always been told.” Mr. Bushell explained, “that it
was wrong to kill, and great was their astonishment
to learn that those of the same race as their teachers
were now intent on spilling each other’s blood, and
that they were to help in the business should such
circumstances arise. But when the changed condi-
tion of things was fully driven into the Papuan mind,
he was a remarkably prolific learner.”
—Sydney Telegraph.
When the naked heathen raged
And imperfect warfare waged
With the rude and awful implements he'd fashioned,
It revolted ev'rv white,
And they said it wasn’t right
In language that was frequently impassioned.
As the back assassin-sportsman ceased his labor,
He'd a sad and wistful longing in his eye;
But gradually he learned to love his neighbor
And to-put his spears and jagged war-clubs by.
When the tailored heathen broke
From his European yoke,
And proceeded-to walk over weaker nations,
The white tutor of the brown
Tore his cherished teachings down,
And took back his Peace Society orations.
Though the sportsman with the spear was sorclv
puzzled
By (he sudden boom in blood, he heard the call,
And lie testified as follows when unmuzzled:
“That white feller, him good savage, after all!”
x.s.w.
CONSTANT BLEEDER.
ARMS AND THE COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim Duggan was a raw recruit
Who hailed from Mirboo West.
The warrior whose thankless job
It was to train the simple yob
Wore on his manly chest
Two medals. “Bli'me,” snorted Jim.
“I reckon I’m as good as ’im!”
Next morning Jimmy, on parade,
Of medals sported four.
“’Strewth!” spluttered the amazed non-com.,
“Where did these blanky things come from?”
“Up ’ome I’ve got two more,”
Cried .Tames, with lofty pride aglow,
“Our milker won ’em at th’ Show!”
vi c TORI A.
HARRISON O.


THE WAR OF ATTRITION. THE DOVE OF PEACE WILL BE THE VULTURE.


9
i
.11
Selayne"
( Regd.)
The Latest
Shirting Flannel.
“Se/ayne” keeps its distinguished
appearance after repeated washing,
is guaranteed unshrinkable and
absolutely fast in color.
1
m
Obtainable All Stores.
Every Hat is of the highest grade, ranking first in the world for Style,
Finish, Durability and Value. Wear “WOODROW’S” always.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Major-General Hubert Hamilton, whose
death in action is reported, was for some
lime Military Secretary to Kitchener when
that strenuous soldier was Commander-in-
Chief in South Africa. He had a good deal
to do with the action taken by the authori-
ties, against Morant, Ilandcock and Whittou,
and, according to Whitton’s book, made a
dead-set at the trio. When the Australian
officer who had defended the accused at the
various courts-martial tried to make a per-
sonal appeal to Kitchener for clemency, he
was received by Hamilton. That was the
end of it.
Melbourne University has coll.cted, for a
change, a fine specimen of locally-grown
brains. The brand is T. 11. Laby, B.A. —a
born scientist, who had a hard struggle to
ship enough lumber to entitle him to any
academic degree at all. He commenced
frankly to specialise at Sydney University
about 12 years ago, and in 1905 won a
scholarship which took him to Cambridge.
There he harvested his first crop of fame
for research work, and subsequentlv was
appointed to Maoriland’s University (Vic-
toria College) as Professor of Physics. Mel-
bourne has now gathered him for its Chair
of Natural Philosophy. lie is 34 years
young, and has the energy of a power-house.
The eye of MR. CHAYET, N.S.W. French
Consul , flashes as he hears of the happenings
in la belle patrie.
“Australia’s Battle Hymn” has been
written and composed by two bloodthirsty
parsons. Professor “Larry” lientoul did
the words, and the Rev. J. Mclntosh the
music. If ever the enemy hears the hymn
he will run. for the collection plate and the
churchwarden with the squeaky boots can
be distinctly heard in the accompaniment.
According to the cable :
An epidemic of espionage [in the Rheims district]
has been traced to M. Munim, of champagne fame.
He told the employees in the champagne industry
that shortly they would be German, and if they cared
for their own interests they would do all they could
to help the Germans.
The Mumms are more German than French,
though all their property lies in and around
Sillery. A brother of the Mumm who is
now a prisoner in the hands of the French
was in Australia about 10 years ago, having
become engaged in Europe to a Sydney girl.
He was tall and fair and typically Teuton,
in appearance and otherwise. He made a
will leaving her most of his property, and
then obligingly went mad. After a brief
sojourn in a French asylum he died, and
she married an Italian. The Mumms stand
a fair chance 75f being ruined whichever way
the tide of battle flows. The Sillery district
(unlike the Epernay district, which lies on
the Paris side of the Marne) has been in
• the thick of the fighting all along. Three
army corps of Germans surged through it
on their way to Paris. Later the invaders
were booted through it again by the Allies,
and across the Aisne. And now part of it
NOT MUCH CHOICE.
MRS. BUSH PUP (to casual feeder): “What'll ye have? Goat or galah? ”
CASUAL F EEDER: “Goat, p ease?"
MRS. BUSH PUB: “Naw yer won't. Ye'll have [?]. Goal's fer the boarders .”
is held by the enemy and part by the
French. However, none of these things
will matter much to the Mumms if the
espionage charge is sustained-
“ The Oldest Inhabitant’s” seasonable con-
beer-pump in every line: —
Miss Polly Crabbe, who . died last week, claimed to
be in her lOffth year. She arrived at Botany Bay
with her parents when she was four years old —
which would take her back to 1818, Macquarie’s
time. One of the family, Emanuel Crabbe, kept the
Golden Fleece publichouse in Castlereagh-street, from
the first.’4o’s, and flourished there for a number of
years. Miss Polly had a turn at inn-keeping, too ;
in the ’GO's she was hostess, of the Victoria, on the
corner of Berwick-lane and Palmer-street, Woolleo-
mooloo. She was . connected by marriage with the
ancient theatrical manager, Tola no, who was
in his time an innkeeper, . ins pub being on the
corner of George and Hunteir..streets.; One of the ilk,
Joe, also an actor of the,"George Rignold period, is
still left. 1 think he lias, a pub, too.
Judge Gibson, of N. S.-’ Wales, who was
called before the heavenly Judgment seat
last week, ought to have had a good Bar
practice. He began as Associate to Justice
Windeyer in Divorce, and later developed a
pretty talent for divorce practice himself.
And then he went on the District Court
Bench and was lost. He was a sound Judge
and latterly a merciful one. In his early
days his sentences were apt to be severe—
as when he gave a friendless swaginan three
years for pilfering a threepenny tin of bak-
ing powder. liis one grasp after immortality
was made during the Federation struggle.
While lie was wavering between unity and
the other thing he went to Tasmania for a
holiday. lie asked, during the first dinner
which he ate there, for Lea and Perrin’s
sauce, and was told that it was not to be had
anywhere in the island. “And this is the in-
fernal place they want us to federate with,”
cried Gibson bitterly, and was for ever after-
wards an earnest anti-Billite.
Alfred Nathan, who died ou the Leura
golf links last week, was one of Sydney’s
heaviest weights and lightest spirits. loi
six years or so he had been in the prosper-
ous "Minter-Simpson law firm; before that
he and his friend Westgarth had a joint
signboard, which came down on \\ est-
garth’s death. Early in his career—he was
51 when he died —he couldn t settle down to
the' law. His father had been Sydney s
best-known amateur-musician, and Alfred, bed-
sides having the theory of it, knew he had
a good voice. So he saw himself a grand-
opera star, and at last went to Europe for
training. He was old enough to soon recog-
nise that, though he was as good as the
ruck, he wasn’t good enough to take the
lead. After that it was lav seriously, but
always very genially.
Alan Morey, the newest South Aus.
Rhodes scholar, who should be starting on
liis Oxford career this October, is enlisting
instead, with the full consent of the Rhodes
Trustees. He writes that out of 135 men
ac his college, Magdalen, only 27 remain at
their studies.
From the Christchurch (M.L.) Press: —
C/ESAR. —On September 29, at Christchurch, to Mr.
anil Mrs. Julius Caesar, of Templeton—a daughter.
Julius Caesar hiding in Chen when he
should be leading armies in Europe! What
does he mean by it?
Henry Goodwin, whose battlemented
mountain home has been gaped at by
10,000 tourists, died at Hazelbrook
(N.S.W.) last week. He was suspected of
being about a hundred years old ; but really
was only 56. His father, Australia Jubilee
Goodwin, who was born in Sydney,
started as a waggon-builder in Geyrge-street,
Brickfield Hill, in premises occupied by his
relative, Joseph Bayliss, who had founded
the business in 1835. The original Bayliss
was a coach-builder in Phillip-street, but the
sons thought the rougher waggon-building
the more profitable, and specialised in that
at a new shop. The son, Henry, succeeded
to the business about 30 years ago. He
married Miss Dwyer, daughter of an old and
wealthy colonist, who survives him. Over
the three gateways of his Ilazelbrook house
are inscriptions declaring that the place was
established in the interests of “Empire
solidarity” and as a resting-place for mem-
bers of the Australian Navy invalided in
time of war. This building had been up
some years before war broke out. Then Henry
-entered into a contract for the construction of
a barracks within the grounds to complete his
scheme. Mr. Goodwin had been for some
years an invalid, the result of paralysis, of
which he claimed to have practically cured
himself by special food, sunbaths, gymna-
sium, work, etc. The food for some years
consisted only, or almost only, of linseed.
W F. Mackenzie, an aged missionary
who knew Tommy Tanna uncommonly well,
died at Epping (N.S.W.) a few days back.
In 1872 he arrived in the South Seas, with
the blessing of the Canadian Presbyterians
and remained there for 41 years. Alter
retiring in bad health, he lasted foi -
months and died aged 70. Long ago he was
made a D.D. as a mark of admiration foi
his work in translating religious books into
the native dialects.
Major Fitzgerald, who has married the
Duchess of Sutherland, is fourth son of the
late Nick Fitzgerald, Victorian M.L.C. and
Melbourne brewer. His mother was a
daughter of John O’Shanassy. The groom
is 41 ; the bride 47. The Major, who began
in the Eleventh Hussars, has done very well :
has been in command of the First Cavalry
Brigade, and on the Mar Office Geneial
Stall; gained the D.S.O. in S’Africa, was
mentioned four times in despatches, and
was one of the daring party which spiked
the Boers’ Long Tom at Lqdysmith. lhe
Duchess is mother of the present Duke of
Sutherland, and sister of the Earl _ol
Rosslyn. She is much concerned in social
questions, and is authoress of several novels
as well as a play named “The Conqueror.
Died in Tasmania, on October 23, John
Dennistoun Wood, who had a farther-back
connection with leading Australian public
events than any living man. Born in 1829.
in Tasmania, the son of an army captain,
he went to England as a boy, entered Middle
Temple in 1845, was called to the Bar in
1852, and came at once to Melbourne to
practise in the Supreme Court. Entering
.he first representative Assembly (1857) as
member for the Ovens, he was. Solicitor-
General right off. He shone brilliantly in
Parliament, even alongside Iliginbotham,
Ireland, Michie, Fellows, Evans, Aspinall
and Chanman. He was Attorney-General
in the Nicholson Cabinet, and Minister of
Justice in O’Slianassy’s third. But he was
not a thoroughly good party man, and, at
last, in sheer disgust, he turned up politics,
and went back to London, partly to get his
eyes seen to. There the sound little law-
yer’s ability became evident in Australian
appeal cases before the Privy Council.
After about a quarter of a century’s absence,
he returned to Melbourne in 1889, and
started practice again. But he had lost
the hang of it; so he retired to Tasmania,
and entered the local Parliament, as an easy
stepping-stone to the tomb. Incidentally,
he published a now very rare volume of
verse, and he once had a short but very
willing bout with Dr. f. f. Smith in the
Victorian Parliamentary refreshment rooms.
“Jonathan”: “B.J.’s” par. (B. 1/10/T4)
on James stops a little
short of the whole truth in saying that,
after his defeat for Corio by R. A. Crouch,
McCay left politics alone. This omits one
of the most interesting episodes in the
C a sll e maine
colonel’s career.
He had decided
to retire from
the political field
when the Fusion
in Victoria fell
in trouble
through the
death of Senate-
candidate Skene
the day before
n o m i n a tions
closed. The wire-
pullers met hur-
riedly. and de-
c i d e d to ask
McCay to fill
Skene’s place.
Someone
boarded the first
train for Castle-
maine with a
nomin a t i o n
pane r, and
McCay—a good
sport always—•
to ok on the
hopeless job. Of
course he was
licked: still he
got to w i t li i n
a b o u t 2 2 .0 0 0
votes of the
leading man’s
score of 217,000.
CONEYBEER,
of the S.A.
Labor parly.
Colonel Thomas U ruce Hutton, who, at
80, has been accidentally burnt to death at
Dandenong (Vic.), was a scarred remnant
of the Crimean and Indian Mutiny scuffles.
He settled in Dandenong in the ’seventies
and for a short period was commandant of
Vic.’s volunteer military forces.
WILLIAM THE-.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Kaiser’s name would go down to posterity as
William the Bloodstained. —Lord Curzon, in a polite
speech.
He had set his mighty mind
On the conquest of mankind
Right from Biscay to the banks of Mahanuddy ;
And to compass it he swore,
Though he bathed the earth in gore;
So the grateful nations called him “Bill the .”
From the highlands of Cevennes
To the land of dyke and fen,
Where the Scheldt divides the meadows flat and
floody,
He poured his millions down,
Till lie made of field and town
Just a burnt and blackened desert, Bill the 1
Little Belgium barred the way,
Caused the Teuton god delay—
She was crushed beneath a murd’rous foot and
muddy.
“But for her we know and feel
We had France beneath our heel,
As it is, our cake is dough,” said Bill the
“Let the churches die in flame,
Give the cities up to shame,”
Said Napolecn’s disappointed underttudy.
“If the war be all in vain,
They’ll remember William’s reign
By the trail he left behind,” said Bill the ——-.
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


m,
55
W///M
m
-
mii
&
vm&
Vt
s ?
5
r *
*V : J
k-
/
sss
'"N,
€
m
m
i
/
9
t
Mi
liiM>
..
S
No.
l_Genuine South American Panama,
clear bleach, fine even plait. Brims
2in., 2l/=, 25/=
No. 2—Genuine South American Panama.
The crown is a shade lower, and not so
round as usual. Brims and
2y 2 \n. ... 27/6
No. 3—Genuine South American Panama,
clear bleach, extra fine plait, medium
crown, loose bows. Brims and
2}4in 35/-
Keep Your Head Cool!
""THERE is nothing like Australian Sunshine if you keep your
1 head cool. Panamas are ideal for Summer wear, and we
are enabled to give exceptional values, having bought large
stocks before the war. We quote carriage paid throughout
Australia. You send your size and money with order; we do the
rest by return of post.
GOWING BROS.,
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,”
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
49 Clarence St., Sydney
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY :
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. r Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Rc
Profits. Dividends, serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Sept., 1906.. 10,170 7 p.c.= 5,250 4,029 57,627
Premiums on new shares . . 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.c.= 5,687 7,195 77,322
Sept, 1907.. 14,619 7,, „ 7,000 7,619 54.041
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7,, „ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 ~ ~ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c.=l 0.062 7.941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7 „ ~10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.-18,549 7 ~ ~10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept, 1910.. 18,844 7 „ ~10,500 8,344 143,463
Mar., 1911.. 20,529 7 „„ 10,500 10,029 153,492
Sept., 1911.. 20,180 7„„ 10,500 9,680 163,172
Mar., 1912.. 22,771 8 ~„ 12,000 10,771 173,943
Sent.. 1912.. 22,464 8 ~ ~ 12,000 10,464 184,407
Mar., 1913. . 2.3,052 8 „„ 12,000 11,052 195.459
Sept., 1913.. 22.637 8 „„ 12,000 10,637 206,096
Mar., 1914.. 23,069 S ~12,000 11,069. 217,165
Reserves disclosed .. . . 15,000 232,165
Sept., 1914.. 20,180 8 p.c.=12,000 8,180 240,345
There is no visible reason why profits
should have fallen away about 121 p.c. On
the balance-sheet figures the results should
certainly have been no poorer. The chances
are that the expenses incidental to the opeu-
ing of a branch in London, involving a visit
from the general manager, have been charged
against the term. At any rate, compared
with the corresponding half of last year,
exes, have gone up from £13,282 to £15,120,
while income, after deducting interest, is
practically unaltered. Further, it is possible
that, besides making the half-year bear these
special charges, the management has stuffed
a hit up its sleeve to provide for war and
drought contingencies. Simultaneously it
has shaken £15,000 out of its sleeve. It is
doubtful whether this £15,000 should have
been disclosed seeing that there is every
chance of inner reserves coming in very
handy presently to make losses good. “We’ve
got this up our sleeve.” the Board might
reasonably have said; “we’ll keep it there
till the clouds roll by.”
However, as it has been disclosed (pro-
bably the step had been decided on before
the g.m. left for London, and that was before
the bomb exploded), some comfort can he
got out of it. First, the fact that an inner
reserve is disclosed should (and no doubt
does) imply that, so far as the management
was aware, there wasn’t a single overvalued
line among the assets as at September 30.
Second, the reserves being really larger than
they looked, the depositors and other credi-
tors are even better protected than they
appeared to he. Let’s drop in a table here :
Sepl., ’l3. Sept., ’l4.
Notes in circulation £1,174 £1,014 Dec. £l6O
Bills in circulation 10.3,047 241,497 Inc. 138,450
Deposits at interest 1,370,423 1,414,121 Inc. 43,698
Free deposits . . 750,830 845,781 Inc. 94,951
Liquid assets .. 1,157,736 1,288,004 Inc. 130,268
Advances . . 1,522,921 1,704,154 Inc. 181,233
Premises, etc. . . 62,913 62,600 Inc. 313
The hank owes the public £2,502 413. Deduct
£1,288,004, which is held liquid; then
£1,214,409 of deposits and other liabilities
remains to be paid. To pay it there are the
£1,704,150 of advances and £02.600 of free-
hold, premises, etc. In other words, these
£1,706,750 of assets could shrink £552,300,
or by very nearly one-third, before the
creditors' capital would be endangered. And
it has to he remembered that the disclosure
of inner hank reserves should mean and no
doubt did mean that on September 30 the
assets standing at £1.700.750 were worth,
in the management’s opinion every penny
of the money. All of which ought to make
the depositors and other creditors feel very
comfortable.
Finally, the disclosure of inner reserves,
built up out of recoveries, recalls the
recuperative powers of Australia. After
the collapse of the big boom 20-odd years
ago tliis and other Australian banks felt
very sick. They were called on to pay hack
Aery large sums to depositors, mostly
foreign. The money was locked up, very
largely in property, and these securities were
thrown on the market wholesale. That
caused the dreadful slump. In most cases
the hanks couldn’t raise money quickly
enough to pay back the depositors, and had
to reconstruct. No such conditions exist
to-day. There are no foreign depositors to
speak of. In fact, instead of Australian
hanks borrowing from J. Bull, they have
been lending to him. Deposits, certainly,
are shrinking, and will go on shrinking. But
the movement is very small. There is and
lias been no panicky withdrawal whatever;
and it is now practically impossible to con-
ceive of a panic. The banks, not being
pushed for the repayment of deposits in
large lumps, will therefore not have to unduly
press borrowing customers or force securi-
ties on to the market. And that’s all Aus-
tralia ever needs —time; time to recover
from drought or the temporary closing of a
market; time to get in and realise two or
three wool and wheat harvests, and freeze
the surplus stock after a few good lambings.
For a year or so ahead bank profits will
certainly shrink. Exchange earnings will he
poor, and they will have to pay dearer for
money without in all cases being able to
collect more for advances; and there are
hound to he some liquidations and some
losses. But there’s positively no reason to
expect that the foundations of this or any
other bank in Australia will be shaken.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. : Reserves. serves.
1903 ..£3939 8 p.c. = £2OOO £1939 £7,573
1904 . . 4226 8 „ „ 2000 2226 9,799
1905 . . 6724 10 „ „ 2500 4224 14,023
1906 . . 5172 10 ~ „ 2500 2672 16,695
1907 .. 5118 10 „,, 2500 2618 19,313
1908 .. 6013 10 „ „ 2500 3513 22,826
1909 .. 5712 10 „ „ 2500 ' 3212 26,038
1910 . . 6463 10 „ „ 2500 3963 30,001
1911 .. 6241 10 „ „* 2500 3741 33,742
1912 . . 5833 10 „ ~ 3000 2833 36,575
1913 .. 6237 10 „ „ 5000 1237 37,812
1914 . . 6488 10 „ „ 5000 1488 39,300
N. S. Wales has now three trustee offices,
and a fourth is threatening. Up to last
year there were only two, hut a State office
has since hung out its sign, and a Victorian
co. has been seeking authority to extend its
operations. The new State c< neern will not,
of course, have much if any effect on the
two private cos. for some time: nevertheless,
Maoriland experience has shown that in the
long run a properly-managed State office can
command very solid business. The M.L.
office has, in fact, found unexpected clients
among strenuous anti-Socialists who, desir-
ing to pass their affairs over to the most
stable of all possible trustees after death,
have chosen the State as necessarily stronger
than any one of the atoms of which it is
composed. From that point of view the
Permanent, like others, may suffer from the
birth of the State infant. On the other
hand, each new concern that comes into the
lield means more advertising of the benefits
of the professional trustee! which means
more business for the established co., as well
as for the new missionary. It isn’t neces-
sarily the pub where you have your first
drink and find you like it that gets your
custom afterwards.
More serious, so far as immediate conse-
quences go, is the slump in values brought
about by war and drought. When a trustee
co. takes an estate in hand it makes two
charges—from 24 p.c. p.a. on the income,
and up to 2 A p.c. of the capital value.
Different cos. have different methods of
bringing the latter charge into their
accounts; the Permanent favors the prac-
tice of making it only when the estate
becomes distributable —which is a distinct
advantage to the beneficiaries, since the
latter go on enjoying the income from the
whole of the est.ate. instead of from only
974 p.c. of it. Naturally the state of the
property market concerns a trustee eo. very
deeply. When values are low it means, of
course, small commissions. And a slump is
liable to mean something more. The bene-
ficiary is not always a contented person.
When his cheque isn’t what he expected, he
is inclined to blame the executor, and nose
round to find out whether he has carried out
the instructions of the trust to the letter.
Often a will is open to more than one inter-
pretation ; and a trustee co. is always liable
to he told by a Judge that it took the wrong
turning. This is really the only sizeable risk
in the trustee business; arid in practice it
only arises when had times turn beneficiaries
sour.
Up till a year ago the Permanent Co. had
no real property; now it owns fine new office
premises, part of which it will occupy before
the end of the year. There have been big
changes in the accounts in consenuence: —
1904. 1909. 1913. 1914.
Capital .. .. £25,000 £25,000 £50.000 £50,000
Liabilities . . 82 40 Nil 6,720
Deposit with Gov-
ernment . . 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages.. .. 13,976 30,716 43,724 23,790
Premises .. . . Nil Nil 25,31 1 56,903
Sundrv debtors . . 98 98 98 98
Cash ' . . . . 2,607 2,564 3,476 30
Premises now make the biggest item among
the assets. To pay for them another
£25,000 of capital was got in, the caslibox
was practically emptied, and just under
£20,000 of the shareholders’ money that was
out on mortgage was collected. All things
considered, it looks as though the profits for
the next few years will be less brilliant than
those of late; for, apart from the things
mentioned above, the £20,000 is quite likely
to earn considerably less than it did when
it was on mortgage. Still, the building is an
advt., and that’s something. In 1904 the total
trust funds were £2,438,105 ; at the end of
September last the total was £3.00(3,027 —a
very satisfactory movement, even though
part of it was due to the higher values ruling
of late.
The Perpetual Executors and Trus-
tees’ Association of Australia < .Mel-
bourne) :
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902 .. £1864 24 p.c. = £750 £376 £738 £9,702
1903 .. 1940 2$ „ „ 825 2040 8,777
1904 . . 2009 3 ~ „ 900 9357 529
1905 .. 2198 34 „ „ 1050 1148 1,677
1906 .. 2250 4J „ „ 1275 975 2,652
1907 . . 2392 5 „ „ 1500 892 3,544
1908 .. 2806 5 „ ~ 1500 1306 4.850
1909 .. 2930 5 „ ~ 1500 1430 6,280
1910 .. 3362 54 „ „ 1650 1712 7,992
1911 .. 3332 6 „ ~ 1800 1532 9.524
1912 .. 3299 64 „ „ 1950 1349 10,873
1913 .. 3513 7 ~ „ 2100 1443 12,316
1914 . . 4305 7 „ „ 2100 2205 14,521
If we went back a hit farther than that
table goes we should land in a Sahara of
dry years, without one oasis in the shape of
a dividend. Now, up to 185)3 or there-
abouts the co. had been paying 10 p.c., and
in 1890 the chairman said they could easily
pay more and had been considering whether
they should do so. At a time like this it
may he of value to find out why a trustee
co. which had been doing so well was for
so many subsequent years unable to pay
anything-at all and after that only a trifle.
(1) When the crisis came to Victoria the co.’s
capital was almost all represented by what
were described as mortgages and other
securities—practically all advances on
property. The position then and now
differs as follows :
1892. 1914.
Liabilities . . . . £137 £64
Assets: —
Government securities .. 10,159 10.000
Mortgages, etc. .. .. 34.707 11.203
Sundries . . . . . . 5,126 10,766
Freeholds . . . . . . Nil 13,950
The sundries in each case consisted chiefly
of advances on trust estates, and should be
thoroughly sound. Seven-tenths of the assets
formerly were in mortgages. \\ hen the
boom broke many of the securities were
thrown on the co.’s hands, ana had to be
nursed and mostly written down out of
profits—when there were any. Ut the
much-reduced amount of £11,203 now shown
as in mortgages, etc., £2549 consists of un-
paid balances on sales; and this money
ought to be well secured, too. (2) The free-
hold is a new item altogether. I ormerly
the co. leased large premises, and when the
boom broke it could not sublet them, and
for some time that involved a loss of £l5OO
a year. Finally (3) there was expensive
litigation in the Swan case. Trustee cos.
thought they might put unused trust moneys
on fixed deposit and did so. Nobody com-
plained until the banks went hung; then,
opinion being very divided, the Privy Council
seems to have tossed for it and decided
against the trustee cos., which had to take
the depreciated deposits at face value and
pay the trust estates hard cash —with yosts.
Trustee cos. have had 20 years’ more experi-
ence since then, and probably make fewer
mistakes now; yet without this judgment
they would most likely do now just what
they did then. And quite likely the Privy
Council would decide differently. True, if
trustees cos. may escape one danger now,
they are liable to be shot at some other way
after a slump, This co. still has that risk.
But it is now free from the other two
causes of the dry time which followed on
the 10 p.c. divs. of the boom years. Its
earnings may fade more or less: it would
be naturally so with a general shrinkage
of values. Yet there may ultimately be
compensations. The turmoil and uncer-
tainties of such a period as this ought to
make people more convinced than ever that
a permanent eo.. devoting itself exclusively
to the business, and guaranteeing its fidelity
with its paid and uncalled capital, is the
best and most reliable trustee and
executor. And in the long run this should
mean increased business and perhaps in-
creased profits. The Bulletin puts in the
“perhaps” because it seems highly probable
that, in the future, trustee cos. will have
to do more work to earn the same amount
of money.
j|: * * * >
The Castlemainic Brewery and Wood’
Bros, and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
l’rofits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1903.. 13,080 4 p.o.= 10,000 3,000 80 42,248
1904.. 13,022 4 ~,,10,000 3,000 22 42,270
1905.. 13,000 4 ~ „ 10,000 3,000 42,270
1906.. 15,019 4 ~ ~ 10,000 3,000 2019 44,289
1907.. 15,522 4 ~ „ 10.000 3,500 2022 46,311
1908.. 14,754 4 ~ ~ 10,000 2,500 2254 48,565
1909.. 13,767 4 ~ „ 10,000 3,000 767 49,332
1910.. 13,387 4 ~ ~ 10 000 2,250 1137 50,409
1911.. 10,346 4 ~ „ 10,000 346 50,815
1912.. 15,551 41 ~,,11,250 4301 65,116
Written off goodwill. £12,000 .. 43,116
1913.. 15,803 5 p.c.= 12,500 3303 46,419
1914.. 27,676 5 „ „ 12,500 12,000 3176 49,595
What these figures really mean Tiie
Bulletin doesn’t know. That profits
have been much better than they used
(o be is just about certain, for Newcastle
has been very prosperous and this co.’s brew
has been in more favor than it used to be.
On the other hand, the old figures were
under grave suspicion. For 10 years or
more they moved around from £13.000 to
£ 15.000, and it was well understood that
more or less was being snipped off and used
to write down overvalued assets or make
good old losses —which amounts to much the
same thing. The accounts always have been
unsatisfactory, and more than one tight has
been made for a seat on the Board with the
principal object of getting a better view of
things. This system of hiding the real
position can be horribly unfair to the out-
sider —and it can be a source of great profit
to the insider if he likes to make it so. It
is significant that in this co., for instance,
though the profits in 1913 were said to he
practically the same as they were seven years
ago. the market price of shares was about
75 p.c. higher at the later date. Somebody
evidently know something—or thought he
did. And this year the profits jump from
£15.000 to £27,000 to reward him.
• •••••
One trouble is that an unknown amount to
represent goodwill is included among the
assets. It is merely an item in a pedlar’s
pack : freeholds and leaseholds and machinery
and plant and rolling-stock and buildings and
goodwill are bundled together. Of the
£12,000 written off for the past year £lO.OOO
is to he struck off this item. The insider
may know how much froth is then
left: the man who merely knows what the
management tells him won’t have any ideas
on the subject. In other words, he won’t
know the value of the co.’s tangible assets.
It is all sloppy and untidy and unsatisfac-
tory; and no doubt is intended to be. For
the rest, and for what they are worth, here
are some more figures:—
1901. 1911. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities to public £68,307 £69,855 £80,910 £101,744
Properties, goodwill,
plant, etc. . . 215,922 263,400 263,405 262,313
Freeholds (special
account) .. 41.848 48,528 50,180 74,031
Sundrv debtors . . 77,348 37,361 42.741 46,290
Rills, cash, etc... 6.826 6,205 4,536 5,319
Stock .. .. 26,346 20.177 22,718 31,634
Receipts .. •• 61,716 46,231 75,317 90,858
Expenses, including
provision for bad
debts . . . . 48,623 35,885 59.513 63,183
The liabilities are running up, notwith-
standing the accumulation of profits. The
money is going, it seems, into “freehold and
other hotels (special account).” Probably
the rapid extension of the Maitland coal-
field is largely responsible for this. And the
same thing may account for the fine in-
crease in the receipts. As before indicated,
there is so much in connection with this co.
that isn’t known ; yet. even so. it seems safe
to say that its future ought to he very
prosperous, given good management. For
Newcastle is going to have a big future, and
most likely a thirsty future ; and new com-
petition in the trade is practically sup-
pressed by law.
Wellington Investment. Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.) :
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1903.. £4061 10 p.c. = £2750 £l3ll £17,571
1904.. 4116 10 „„ 2750 1366 18,937
,„ nr . I £19,250 of reserves capitalised I 435
1905. . 1 3510 10 p.c. = 2762 748 f
1906.. 4708 6 „ ~ 2989 1719 2,154
1907.. 4779 6 „ „ 3000 1779 3,933
1908.. 4917 6 „ ~ 3000 1917 0,8 50
1909.. 4312 6 „ „ 3000 1312 7,162
1910.. 3769 6 „ „ 3000 769 '>?3l
1911.. 4658 6 „ „ 3000 1658 9,689
1912.. 4967 6 ~ ~ 3000 1967 11,006
1913.. 4957 7 .. 3500 1457 13,013
Premiums on new shares. . 1047 14,066
1914.. 4678 7 p.c. = 3521 1177 15,23/
All the trustee business this concern gets
isn’t likely to seriously affect the genuine
trustee co. which gives the whole of its atten-
tion to that branch and doesn’t treat it
merely as a sideline. During the 12 months
its total revenue from “commission and
agency” (which is, presumably, the income
from the trustee and agency business) was
£6l. Other sources were “interest received
and accrued, £12.764,” and “rents received
and accrued, £1952.” From this it. is evi-
dent that the co. depends almost entirely on
its mortgage and investment business. De-
posits total £194,453, in comparison with
which the paid capital of £57,266 is small
and the reserves, £15,237, absurdly small-
Of the co.’s total resources. £158.296 is out
on mortgage, £40,687 is in freeholds and
leaseholds (not acquired by foreclosure) and
£32,685 is in various public debentures. The
balance is represented by sundries, of which
bank balance and cash amount to only £2531.
It is not a position which is at all likely to
cause a rush of trustee business. New capi-
tal is, however, being got in. Formerly there
were 100,000 shares paid to 10s. Now
120,946 shares have been issued, and 10s.
has been called up on the new lot, though on
June 30 only a part of it: had come in. With
so much deposit money out on mortgage
shareholders carry considerable risks; and
they would have done a much more prudent
Thing if they had built up a big contingency
reserve instead of lately putting the dividend
up to 7 p.c. On the actually-paid capital
this 7 p.c. is really equal to something like
13 p.c., so that shareholders would have had
no cause to complain had they been asked to
give the reserves a chance for a while. Now
they can sit down and get as much comfort
as they can out of the reflection that, if the
starved reserves are not sufficient to .make
good the losses that bad times will inevitably
produce, then the excess losses will have to
be squared by writing down capital. Of
course, that may not he necessary; but
£230.000 of advances and properties, acquired
mostly in a period of great prosperity and
high prices, may very easily shrink more
than £15.237 in a period of gloom. No doubt
tliene will be a recovery, more or less, in due
course; but whether a co. like this can hang
on and wait for the recovery depends (1) on
the ability of the borrowers to keep up the
interest payments, and 12) on the ability
or willingness of the depositors to leave their
money in the business. At present, there is
certainly no reason, apart from their own
necessities, why they should shift it.
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.) ;
Writ- Nominal
Profit. ten Off. Reserves.
Sent., 1910.. £13,716 £3666 £1,698
Mar., 1911.. 10,730 3746 8,682
Sept., 1911..
( 10,294 3167 1
{ Four years' divs. on pref.
f shares, £lO,OOO I
5,809
Mar., 1012..
r 9,346 3167 4
j Four years’ divs. on pref. !•
I shares, £lO,OOO I
1,988
Sept,, 1012..
r 15,883 3244 -s
Tliree years’ divs’ on pref. I
shares, £7500; 10pc. j-
-1 div. on other shares, j
l £4437. J
2,690
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off.
.. f Ord. 10 p.c. =£4441 1
Mnr„ I'Jl.i. t 10,1.1/ J I)ref * = pi-,,, ,
£3177 3,959
„ t mu 1, /.ta t Ord. I2i p.c. = 56 )9/
Sept., 191 3 .. II ,650 ) , , rrf - , = V 260 ,
32! 6 5,534
m ion n j,ot Ord. 12ip.c.= 5625 )
Mur., 1914.. 11, 148 I>rcf = 1260 f
Sept., 1914.. 8,093 Pref. = 1250
3283 6,824
3290 10,377
This co. can have bad lurk, after it 11- It
didn’t look like it once: for when it had
just about eaten 1 1 p its old mine (without
writing off the capital that was supposed
to be represented by the coal), it dropped
across a Maitland property, and found
things there so favorable that it had the
new mine developed before all the old busi-
ness connection had disappeared. The co.
certainly had to borrow a bit to get the
new mine started, but it didn’t have to bleed
shareholders, and actually the prefs. have
had their 12A p.c. all through. As for
ordinaries, tbe last div. they got from the
old mine was in 1001; the lirst they got:
from the new mine, after the arrears of
pref. dividend had been paid, was in 1012.
When the co. got into its stride in the new
(Neath) mine, the management, repenting
of its former sins, proceeded to build up a
liquid balance to replace the capital repre-
sented by the hole that was being made in
the property. The progress since 1004, when
the crisis happened, is shown next: —
1904. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities .. .. £lB7 £10,841 £4..149
Mine property .. 81,000 62.000 58,000
Plant, stock, etc... 18,816 35,826 35,879
Liquid assets . . 2,456 35,158 32,297
Liquid assets were £24,3 17 in excess of
liabilities 12 months ago. The surplus is
now £27.748. So the business has (1) paid
the year’s dividends, (2) provided for any
additions to plant, and (3) added £3431 to
the reserve to cover the depreciation of mine
and machinery. It isn’t a bad result, by
any means; yet plainly the directors don't
think it is good enough, wherefore they pay
no div. on ordinary shares this half-year.
The immediate trouble is a fire in the Neath
Colliery, which has necessitated the sealing
of the workings since the end of July. Con-
sequently. while there has been more or less


an
The Personnel of
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
. .
is a very serious matter for a Testator's Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
which, having had twenty-eight years’ experience,
and employing an Expert Staff, is much to be
preferred to any private: Trustees,- no matter
how trustworthy.
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will be sent on application.
2,4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
The best pal to help you squeeze the last
possible drop of enjoyment from that royal
racing event, the Melbourne Cup, is the
Royal brand of King George IV. —his top-
notch Scotch.*
As some Australian tourists who had in-
tended visiting Japan wrnre :'n doubt as to
the conditions ruling on account of the war.
Rurns, Philp and Co. cabled an inquiry and
have received an assurance from the Japan
Tourist Bureau that “everything goes on
just as smoothly as usual. There need be
no fear of visiting the country.”
Tell us your power transmission troubles and let us
make you a profit prescription in a length of
“Pioneer” leather belting. Now is the psychologi-
cal moment —because you need all “producers” these
times of economy. “Pioneer” is made from the centie
cuts of flawless Australian ox hides, and gives Hie
best results under all conditions —as proof, “Pioneer”
works in the sugar mills of North Queensland and
Fiji, the ore mines at Kalgoorlie and broken Hill,
timber mills in Southern Tasmania, factories in the
Philippines and Japan, it has secured all the Imperial,
State and Federal Department contracts for 1014-1 f>.
and it works in thousands of private plants. “Pioneer”
leather belting can buy you your full share of
profits. Will you let it? Write to our nearest office
to-day. “Pioneer” is made onlv by J. 0. Ludowici
A' Son Ltd., “Pioneer” Works, 117 York Street, Syd-
ney (opp. Q. V. Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo.
Russell P’t’v Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South
Australia; .T. McKell. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide;
Queensland: Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Bris-
bane ; W. Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth ; Broken Hill: Geo. 0. Dempster, Argent Street. *
* * * *
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane ami
Perth.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Fng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [3
* * * »
Extract from Tub Rbvtkw, London, nth December,
1913: —“Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Limited.—The progress of the Society is clearly
demonstrated in figures. Though it cannot be
considered an old company, in comparison with
many of its competitors—it was instituted in
1873 —the amount of business secured, and the
resources built up, proves that those who have
served the company have done their duty most faith-
fully and well.”* ' [5
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is not impaired by the
effects of electrolysis, acids, nor minerals in solution.
It is the cheapest piping to lay and costs practically
nothing for upkeep. Catalogue from The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Contractors to all State Govern-
ments, 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
In time of war as in peace, the British Govern-
ment are large buyers of the “Hornsby” Oil Engine.
The Irish Lights Board and the Trinity House Cor-
poration, who are responsible for the lighting of the
British coast, have ordered a large number of these
engines, direct coupled to Air Compressors, for safe-
guarding the world’s shipping. For full-particulars
apply R. Hornsby & Sons Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane.* [X
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
*• * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so. write
to Griffith and Ilnssel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 C'astlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can he procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
PETROLEUM.—George D. Meudell, of 8 Scott’s
Court, Melbourne, requires boring options or leases
over likely oil areas in Australia. Will give liberal
terms.*
* * * *
British-built “Robey” compound semi portable
Superheated Steam Engine. Most compact and
economical power for mines, mills and factories.
Arthur Leplastricr & Co., Svdr.ev.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
11s for Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberc and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concernin'-
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain: weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.*
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
continuous outlay, no revenue has been com-
ing in. Taking that into account the profit
figures are very satisfactory indeed. What
damage the fire lias done or is doing, nobody,
of course, knows; but it is believed that the
sealing is proving effective. Mean time the
co. is missing a market which is satisfactory
in spite _of the war. On present appear-
ances it is, moreover, going to continue satis-
factory. For one tiling, the replacement
of “Made-in-Germany” goods by the pro-
ducts of Australian factories isn’t going to
do Australian coal-vendors any harm.
Hart’s, a mostly Melbourne-owned lode-tin
show at Torrington (N.S.W.), is making an
effort to keep open. Lately the co. bought
tin* Dutchman block, alongside, for 6000
fully-paid 10s. shares, and the capital was
increased accordingly. There are now
•‘<6,000 shares, and 4s. 6d. can be called on
26,006 of them. Calls are being made
to help the skimpy output. Prospects are
foil'—for lode-tin prospects. At the best of
times, though, the man who relies on lode-
tin relies on the trickiest thing in the mining
world, and just about the most disappointing.
Most of the New England (N.S.W.) tin
sluieers have lately been working scraps of
ground which they picked up as they went
along. Heavy costs are one result. Bourke’s
Ilill last half-year couldn’t work below lid.,
and with the tin market rather sick there
was in the end a loss of over £5OO on work-
ing account alone. In the previous boom
year things had been all right; and the co.
got an unpleasant reminder of it when it
had in this lean year to pay £404 income
tax for 1013, Including this and everything
else the loss for the half-year was £1275.
The mine is now closed down waiting for the
tin-buyers to open their mouths again. They
ought; to do that pretty soon, for tin isn't
contraband.
* * # »
Old Brown’s Creek (N.S.W.) is in trouble
again. The new co., the Golden Springs,
may have provided itself with enough money
had everything gone right. But things never
have gone right for long at Brown’s Creek,
and a failure of the machinery was followed
by the re-flooding of the mine. With the
treasury empty the co. went to Melbourne
jo raise more money, and then the war drove
it to the Warden’s Court for three months’
exemption. Manager Whear Roberts, who
deserves a fortune for his persistence, has
got two months to go on with.
Last month Broken Hill exported 11.730
tons of lead concentrates, containing about
6000 tons of metal; so the field is still a
heavy producer, and the restarting of I lie
Zinc Corporation’s lead mill will increase the
output. Previous to the outbreak of war it
was quite common for Broken Ilill to rail
away in a month 30.000 tons of lead con-
centrates, containing from 15.000 to 18,000
tons recoverable. Australia has for years
past been in a position to supply Britain
with the whole of its lead requirements;
but more favorable foreign ore-buying con-
tracts diverted the trade to Belgium and
Germany. The same with zinc. Yet, in
spite of its own zinc-smelting, Germany
bought much spelter from Britain. Belgium
was in a totally different nosition, producing
far more than it consumed.
Shortage of water is causing the Mararoa
and other ore-treaters at Norseman (W.A.)
much anxiety. The amount in the local
dams is equal to only about three months’
supply, and, unless a big downpour takes
place soon water for power and treatment
will have to be railed at a cost of 225. 6d.
jier 1600, or about 14s. per 1000 more than
is paid at present. This would hurt.
* * * *
eri a Consols, formerly Lancefield
(W.A.), damages everyone who tackles if.
Several of 8.. M. & Co.’s managers lost
their billets or had to admit themselves bested
in trying to make it pay, and finally the
Kalgoorlie and Boulder Firewood Co. came
along and took it off the liquidator’s hands.
\ arious improvements, including the substi-
tution of gas power for steam, have been
effected since then; but, judging by the first
return, the new owner is up against the
same extraction troubles that caused the
old one to lose the best of a million and die
heavily in debt.
* * * *
Some of _ the big Westralians are now
giving special attention to dust-prevention
and ventilation. The Great Boulder has
converted Edwards’ shaft into a permanent
intake, with brattice doors at the lower
levels. A strong current of air has been
the result, and the benefit derived by the
men underground has been considerable.
Great Fingall has also shown an earnest
desire lately to improve the qualitv of the
air below, and the Labor Minister for Mines
is insisting on other owners following suit.
Whim Well (W.A.) isn't likelv # to get
its shutters down for some time. ' Returns
I rom shipments of crude copper ore and
capital derived from reconstructions kept
the co. going for some time and enabled it to
pay a dividend or two. Then someone told a
glowing tale about the Murex process, and
the Board decided to get it right away. A
big sum was thus spent; but matters went
wrong, and have never been righted. The
management blames the plant, and if the
plant could speak it would probably say
lurid things about the ore. No work has
been done in the mine below water level,
and a reliable Government inspector, who
has just been through, says that, consider-
ing that no development has been done in
any part, it is astonishing how the co. has
been able to fill ships with stuff; obtained
from irregularly-occurring bunches. Some
of the deposits are, however, of great size.
Between January and July the co. shipped
7730 tons, valued at £40,000; but there is
practically nothing of shipping value in
sight at present. On this showing the war
(which was the reason given for shutting
down) must have been regarded as quite
providential.
Bamboo Creek is now the hope of Marble
Bar (W.A.). Several shows which had a
brief run in the beginning and then went
under are being worked after years of idle-
ness, and a recent round of crushings at the
State mill totalled 1300 oz. from about that
many tons. A cyanide plant is being erected
t> get out some of the gold locked up in
the tailings. The district is full of small
quartz veins which widen in depth, and in
some cases become 7ft. and Bft. formations
seamed with calcite and quartz, values being
distributed through the lot. Shortage of
water is the locality’s handicap.
Apparently Golden Butterfly won’t be
able to fly much longer. Heavy sulphide
has been struck in the shaft below 300 ft.,
and as there is no money to purchase plant
to treat it, and little chance of being able
to raise any, it looks as if the end is not far
off.
* * * *
Edna May Central (W.A.) so far hasn’t
cut a dash over its yields, and the market
has required much propping. If returns
are low, costs are going to be lo\tf too.
Everything is to be automatic, and labor is
to look on while the wheels go round. So
far 7dwt. is the tally of the stone sent to
the mill; but things are to mend when the
Edna May shoot pitches into the claim at
3.10 ft. At least this is why the Central
crowd have locked up their scrip.
* * -X- *
Eor 4?, years Langi Logan North has
played at_ mining at Ararat (Vic.). Of
£44,000 of capital shown in the accounts,
vendors took £lO.OOO and a similar sum was
spent in wages. Another £7500 went for
plant—a lot of it second-hand —and
£2OOO was loaned to the New Langi
to get it on to the wash that has
never yet reached the puddler. The
assets against this outgo are a shaft 259 ft.
deep, and a modest little bore-hole at the
bottom 7ft. deep and liin. in diameter.
Water'lias spouted so strongly up this bore
that a couple of Klin, lifts have confessed
themselves beaten. This sent the manage-
ment scuttling round the machinery junk-
shops for 20in. pipes. Now with pathos it is
said that no half-worn stuff’ could be got, so
the directors have had to buy new lifts. If
Langi North had been made to work it
would have been helping New Langi to drain
the gutter long since, and scrip would have
had a market position instead of being little
better than waste paper.
* .* -X- *
Hustlers Reef, Bendigo, is run mostly by
tributors nowadays. Occasionally a nice
patch is got, like that met with above the
1.505 ft. level; but of late neither co. nor
men have got bread-and-butter stone. Calls
and a bank overdraft are so far all that has
come from the recent chase after the Great
Extended Hustlers’ shoot. No. 11 level off
No. 2 shaft has plenty of quartz, but the
tail of the metal in the pan is so microscopic
that even Bill Farmer is too modest to say
more than that it is worth the name.
Hustlers has been such a giant in its day
in the upper levels that more ought to be
done to it than the tributor can possibly
manage.
* :* * *
A good friend to the worker has been
Pyrenees Prop., Redbank (Vic.) ; for, while
£24,000 of gold has been got, £lB,OOO has
gone in wages and £5200 to the machinery
merchant and the storekeeper. All the odd-
ments have come out of calls. In the search
for a payable shoot of gold a lot of work
has been done, including a drive, 1000 ft.
long, south of the shaft at a depth of 425 ft.
Here four stopes 200 ft. long will give exer-
cise to the stamps for a while, but there’s no
present chance of a dividend. What the co.
needs to do is to cast about for a new make
of quartz. Geologist Baragwanath points
the way when he recommends hunting for
the lost eastern reef at 325 ft.
. * * * *
Because it raised the average of gold per
fathom from 495. Sd. to 525. 4d., cut down
costs from 495. to 465. Bd., and raked in pro-
fits from the sale of slimes, Duke and Main
Leads, Maryborough (Vic.), parted up three
dividends of sixpence each last term. This
brings the total up to £57,500 against paid
capital of £61,500. The mine is the biggest
alluvial claim in the Cabbage Garden, and
has always been well worked and cleanly
run. In seven years the co. has panelled
a length of 11,000 ft. of the gutter for gold
worth £322,700, and as it had a decent crowd
behind it there has been none of the boosting
that has made such a lot of Ararat stink.
To-day. unless something sweet is got in the
west end, only about nine months’ work re-
mains in that part of the claim ; but there is
a chance of a patch of ground being got
towards the Duke Extended. At the other
end of the mine the lead is in a narrow gut.
Although- this has widened to 140 ft., a bigger
channel is wanted, not only to give a deeent-
, sized field of wash to operate in, but to get
the workings out of the scoured section of the
lead.
f rom Matching (Vic.), where there was a
gold rush about the date the name indicates:
Our postmaster has to count all the letters,
etc., aud if the tally doesn’t reach a certain
minimum we are likely to lose the P.O.
altogether. This place is dead enough. If
the mail stops it will be Hell. There are 11
sluicing claims left on the field—or they
would be sluicing- claims if there was any
water to sluice with. This has been the
driest winter ever known in the Grampian
Range. We cleaned up three chains
of our tail race and got £6 Is. Id. About
as much more will represent our winter’s
work. Poor; but it’s a free life.”
* * * *
North Queensland feels better, for the tin
mill and smelter at Irvinebank are to
start again; and Chillagoe has arranged, to
blow in the lead smelter to treat ore from
Mungana. This, mine is opening out at
810 ft. vertical, which is the deepest on
copper-lead-silver in N. Queensland. Chilla-
goe’s railway receipts were only £2551 in
September, so something has to be done to
stop rude remarks from debenture holders.
Mount Morgan is now handling a largo
tonnage. Including the ore sent to the mill
and the flux from the Peaks, the total dur-
ing four weeks to October 18 was 34,227
tons. The quantity smelted (including con-
centrates) was 28,071 tons, and the return
shows 731 tons blister, containing 724 tons
copper and !)210oz. gold. An average of
12.720 z. gold to each ton of copper cannot
be considered bad; but it should be noted
that the smelter required 38.7 tons of ore
per ton of copper, and that means a low
extraction. Taking copper at £6O per ton
and gold at S4s. per oz.. the return is worth
£82,124, which is roughly 50s. per ton of
ore. It is quite evident the extraction is
down compared with some previous returns,
but the larger tonnage makes it almost cer-
tain that costs are also lower. Whether
they are yet low enough to suit the poor-
grade reserves is exceedingly doubtful.
* * * »
“M.1.M.E.”: Re Mount Morgan's con-
centrator and the “successful run” I read
about. The theoretical capacity of the
plant is 500 tons a day. After three months
it should, therefore, have put through about
45,000 tons. Actually about 12,000 tons
have been handled. What sort of success is
that? And the value of the concentrate, I
read, is from 395. to 40s. per ton. In the
face of those figures I’ll bet the directors
are not game to publish costs, and put them
up against those of first-grade mines of
Westralia or the Rand.
* * * *
The most important recent development at
Charters Towers has been in Clark’s, which
continues to show good prospects at the
469 ft. The drive, after passing through dis-
turbed country, has run into a good make,
varying in thickness from 9in. to 18in. A
crushing is going through, and it is hoped
that the return will cover the cost of mining
and development, and thus avoid another call.
As there are 180,900 contributing shares, the
recent market spurt of 6d. represents £4500.
Measured on the underlay there is a block
of 80ft. up to the 426 ft. level. The reefs in
this Moonstone-Treasure group are very flat,
and payable zones alternate with disturbed
country and patchy prospects. Clark’s is
lucky in having the Lady Maria shaft sunk
in advance of its northern level, for this will
greatly facilitate prospecting. The mine is
likely to have an interesting future, though it
can hardly hope for anything big.
* * * *
When Capt. Miles was floating his Dee-
book he wrote to The Bulletin to say that
he had never hoped to pick up in the Malay
Peninsula, at that time of day, anything so
good. It was going to be a Miles baby, he
said frankly—one Miles (himself) would be
chairman and managing director, and another
Miles would be on the Board, and Miles 111.
would be general manager. If people came
in and, being unsatisfied in 12 months,
wanted to get out, their money would be
waiting for them. The Captain evidently
wasn’t trampled to death by a rush of
escapees; and before the first dredge was
started, Robinson, Clark and Co. took 10,000
of the reserved 295. shares and paid 48s. net
for them. They also had an option over
10.000 more at 535. (September) and 575.
(March, 1915) : and, owing to the general
smash, the directors were quite will-
ing to let these chances stand open
for three months. The share sale brought
in £24,000, and that and the £48,000
which the float realised originally has
left the co. in a fairly comfortable financial
position. Notwithstanding that No. 1 dredge
cost £22,111 landed on the spot (with bills
for a few exes, yet to come in), the co. had
£25,468 liquid at the end of May. The No.
2 dredge, ordered last April, should be ready
for shipment by the end of the year, and if
things go all right it should be got on to the
mine during next dry season (say, after
April). Meantime the No. 1 dredge is
kept going. It started early in August, and
is getting out 10 or 12 tons a week. But as
the Penang buyers were at the end of Sep-
tember offering only at the rate of £ll7 per
ton for metallic tin. or £76 for 65 p.c. con-
centrates, the co. is hanging on to the pro-
duct. The price quoted is just under one-half
of the maximum of the recent boom, and the
directors can’t swallow that. Evidently they
reckon that the Dutchmen and Chinese who
control this market are trading on the neces-
sities of those who must work and must sell.
* * * *
Mount Lyell wound up its half-year to
September 30 in good heart, having
despatched 3932 tons of blister during the six
months. Like a good Australian it separates
its gold and copper within the Common-
wealth. Rich patches of bornite from the
deepest level (1100 ft.) are invigorating the
converter returns. The latest report sets
out that 25,210 tons were smelted for 034
tons pure copper, 36,3520 z. silver aud 8450 z.
sold. With regard to the future, all that
can be said is that returns are certain to be
influenced from time to time by similar
enrichments peppered through the 1,000,000
tons of reserves in the North Lyell. At pre-
sent, despite the present enrichment, the
market has slumped to ISs. This is taken
to indicate a want of faith in the
copper market. What it probably in-
dicates is that, among the very many
holders of the million and a quarter
shares, there are enough weak, necessitous
ones to make a sick market. The bigger the
share register the more likely a stock is to
suffer from this cause in the present upset.
* * * *
Though it is late in the day, Maoriland
Mines Department has decided that some-
thing must be done in the way of re-soiling
the worked-out dredging areas. Judged by
the Victorian experience, there won’t be a
great deal of dredging after the new rule is
enforced.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page SO.)


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1906 |
GMflfM
ME PLUS ULTRA
/
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
APPENDICITIS FREQUENT.
NUMBERLESS SOCIETY PATIENTS.
[From Our Special Representative.]
London, Wednesday, 11.10 p.m.
Operations for appendicitis are becoming common
amongst society folk. The latest case is that of Sir
Charles Oust, equerry to the King, who accompanied
him on his Australian tour when Duke of York.
Appendicitis during recent years has become very
ordinary throughout the civilised world, and it is
held in many professional centres that before appen-
dicitis was correctly diagnosed numberless deaths
resulted, the physicians being at that time under the
impression the cause of death was peritonitis or in-
flammation of the bowels. Medical men, with the
educated finger-touch that comes with active prac-
tice, readily diagnose the complaint to-day, aided by
symptoms only too easily recognised.
Medical science of to-day has reduced this opera-
tion to an almost painless nature, but prolonged
weakness often ensues, as is shown in the case of Mr.
P. R. Miles, who was operated on in Melbourne last
year. In an appendicitis sense, his case was similar
to that of thousands of others, but the weakness that
ensued baffled all attempts to cure, and as he repre-
sented one of the largest commercial firms resident
in Australasia, his life was a very valuable one.
Prescriptions and medicines were alike useless to him
until he, as a last resource, took Clements Tonic,
the great nerve and brain medicine, and in a mirac-
ulously short time his strength and health were re-
stored. His nerves are now as sound as steel; he says
he is completely cured. As all chemists and stores
sell this medicine, it would be wise for all weak-
nerved people to get it and get well.*
Otard Brandy
15 YEARS OLD
IS A TRUE COGNAC BRANDY.
Otard Brandy is the pure distillation of the grape,
matured for years in the famous historic Chateau de
Cognac, where Francois 1.. King of France, was born.
This Chateau now forms the cellars and premises of
THE MAISON OTARD-DUPUY. For sickness or
health, as a liqueur or as a beverage, there is no spirit
to equal.
OTARD (15 Year) BRANDY
Pi
0
a
v ©Mu
P tOn,, r .„. rOAf
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 26, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
The Show Ground was like a disorganised
antheap while the “Battle of Flowers” raged
for the Red Cross Fund. The only thing
that matters came triumphant out of the
hotch-potch. This was a gigantic attend-
ance of the same old public which swarms
round any event, good, bad or worse, that is
labelled “patriotic.” The Millions Club,
which backed the event, can therefore wipe
its fevered bald spot and contemplate the
results with complacency.
Any attempt to give more than a mixed,
Futurist’s impression of this motley extrava-
ganza, under a scorching sun, must be futile.
Hordes of children, dogged by more or less
indifferent disciplinarians, dashed about.
Mothers yelled at their offspring, and occa-
sionally captured the most mutinous. After
getting everything but a well-earned spank-
ing, these youngsters would break away and
again over-run the show ring. Spectators,
maddened at their ineffective efforts to see
what was happening, also rushed the arena.
Satisfied that there was nothing to see
except a tumultuous mass of sunburnt chil-
dren, they retired for a brief rest, and sup-
ported terrific thirsts on limp ice-creams.
Two or three processions emerged from
the confusion, and motor-bikes dashed round
the track in an attempt, soon abandoned, to
strictly 7 attend to business. The floral cars
were few but attractive. Miss Clamp got
away with the prize for this event. The
Queen of Flowers, a pretty girl named Edith
Gottham, was crowned while spectators made
a wild rush to the show ring. Two bikes
crashed into each other in the general
melee, but no serious damage was recorded.
Maisie Greig-Smith headed a semi-floral pro-
cession called “The Seven Ages.” A peach-
blossom set arrested attention, by the strong-
minded appearance of a lady peach-blossom,
of more than 17. who stamped manfully in
front of the buds. Sara Collins’s cherub
set, clad in pink tights and a wreath of
roses, captured a prize. The best attempt
to keep in line was the march-past of an
infant brigade (feminine) in Lancer uni-
form. In the rabble of urchins let loose,
these sedate little persons, and some of the
State Schools’ maypole dancers, clothed in
British bunting, were about the best-discip-
lined units.
Maoriland’s ex-Governor Islington has
offered his big house in Chesterfield
Gardens (London, W.) as a hospital for
invalided warriors. In particular it is to
roof those of the Dominion’s contingents who
have the bad luck to be wounded.
Alfred Nathan, the front-rank Sydney
solicitor, who died on the Leura Links last
Saturday, had thoughts of a singer’s career ;
but he gave them up long ago after two
years of study in Europe. Still, he was able
to forget all about the law and everything
else once he got a favorite song in his hand
and a sympathetic accompanist at the piano.
Once, lately, he was thus happily placed, and
’browing up his hand (with his 18st. behind
it), he shattered the gas-fixings. There was
racket enough to disturb a street, but not
enough to distract Alfred Nathan, who fin-
ished the performance, and then, fancying he
had heard something, turned round to see
what the damage was. Mr. Nathan’s grand-
father was music-teacher to the only child of
George IV. and Queen Caroline.
Dr. Wallace, a Sydney graduate, has joined
the staff of the Australian Voluntary Field
Hospital, which has the use .of the yacht
Greta, the luxurious little craft belonging to
Lord Dunraven. Bob Wallace, who was one
of the brightest young sawbones in training
here, is the only son of Colonel Wallace, State
Commandant of Victoria.
Lady Dudley has requested the other
workers in the Australian Voluntary Hospi-
tal to call her “Sister.” This is less
familiar than Rachel, and more handy than
“y’r ladyship.” The marvel is that this mild,
melancholy-looking lady has nerved herself
to the task —extra hard on an untrained
amateur nurse, of getting within reasonable
distance of the infuriated enemy. During
the Dudleys’ term of vice-regal splendor (on
strictly economical lines) in Australia, Lady
Dudley was something of an invalid half the
time. Sister Dudley must be in much bet-
ter health; if she Isn’t, her presence at the
hospital base will add to the anxieties of the
staff.
Baritone Ulick Browne, of Bananaland,
has been given a commission in a Welsh
regiment. When the last mail skipned down
the English Channel this sprig of the old
Irish house of Sligo was in training at
Swansea.
Louise Mack, a former writer of The
Bulletin's “Woman’s Letter,” describes
her sensations in Antwerp. First and fore-
most, she felt “a supreme satisfaction in hav-
ing dropped clear away from all the make-
believes of life.” So far from feeling fear,
she found herself almost unconcerned. She
stood in front of a looking-glass powdering
her face while the Zeppelins sped on their
way across the skies. After that she ran
downstairs and joined the hotel crowd which
watched the ghastly trail of the bomb-drop-
ping dirigibles by night. Later on, the Ant-
werp cellar, which sheltered Louise and
other refugees, was probably quite as near
the fighting line as, in her heart of hearts,
she ever wants to be, even with the moral
support of a powder puff.
The French Red Cross concert, organised
by Mrs. Yvonne Charvin, cleared about
£l6O0 —not less, and possibly Is. more.
The invaluable aid of Mr. Marich and Mr.
George Playoust is again mentioned in
brave italics. Hon. concert manager J.
Brownlow got away with the usual bouquet
of bitter reproaches from outsiders, and was
fiercely assailed with regard to certain bunt-
ing. By mischance the decorator who hung
the Town Hall with the Allies’ emblems
allowed an enemy’s flag to show itself
amongst those present. The storm broke
next day, and for a week afterwards
Paling’s young man looked as if he had
been struck by lightning.
Mrs. Trefle removed her joyous presence
from interminable charity committees this
week, and hurried off to Brisbane to meet
her husband. He has been flinging off the
effects of a bad bout of influenza by drink-
ing the dry champagne air of Central
Queensland. Minister for Lands Trefle’s
trip north has been mostly spent on Zara
station. Host O’Neill is a brother-in-law of
the Trefle lady. I don’t know what kind of
animal flourishes on Zara, but I fancy it
has horns and a bellow.
Melba is going to sing for the Allied
cause, in Adelaide, next month. Later, she
takes up her quarters at Manly. A suite of
rooms at the smart hotel on the brink of
the glad sea waves is to house the Voice
about Christmas time.
Some day a Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Teachers will protest against the
trained infant being required to demonstrate
his muscle and lung power in hot weather.
The Free Kindergarten display in the Town
Hall was warmed up by a temperature of
94 deg. in the shade. It was a good advt. of
the sturdy veterans of from 2i to six sum-
mers, who split the atmosphere with patri-
otic ditties. Some of the younger teachers,
of willow-wand pattern, looked fagged out
after the fray. To my certain knowledge,
several damsels who had been in charge of
serried hordes of knickerbockers spent the
Sabbath, which fell next day, in curling-pins
and other light refreshments, and were
sprayed on the head at frequent intervals by
sympathetic friends.
The responsibility of safely shepherding the
little Bohemians of the back streets at this
big Free Kindergarten show is a nerve-rack-
ing business for over-anxious shepherdesses.
If a self-contained babe of about three sum-
mers gets tired of demonstrating or suddenly
remembers some other more, exciting enter-
tainment —say, on Woolloomooloo water-front
—he’ll make a dash for liberty unless lynx-
eyed guardians arrest him. Hence the juven-
ile school-marm’s' tense expression at these
Froebel parties in public. Governor Strick-
land and a young daughter, shadowed by Aide
d’Apice, looked in at Saturday’s rally in the
municipal hall.
When the last mail steamer bolted out of
’Frisco. Edyth Latimer, a Sydney actress who
started here with Barrett, was starring in
the United States, in “The Garden of Allah”
• —that ear den where the pumpkin of Allah
grows large and rich, and his turnip is mar-
vellous to behold.
The Phil. Society is gathering its forces for
a concert in the Town Hall on November 7
in aid of the Belgian Relief Fund.
Some of the British and Australian tour-
ists who were drinking the waters of Carls-
bad when the trouble began had desperate
straits to go through before they fled from
that irritated region. The late Henniker
Heaton, who afterwards died in Geneva
from the effects of this experience, escaped
in company with Adelina Patti, Princess
Duleep Singh and a few indignant members
of the Peerage, who were attacked with
stones and sticks in the streets as they fled
from the greater wrath to come.
Id. N. Southwell sends out a few peaceful
lemarks re olcl churches and picturesque
ruins in Britain. At date of writing (Sep-
tember 10) he had apparently forgotten that
the war was busy- on the other side of a
little strip of water. London E.C. he has
thoroughly explored, thanks to the aid of a
Whitechapel acquaintance —“A good, straight-
forward chap, who works in a cigar factory.
With his assistance I have seen the real
East End —not Petticoat-lane, which is in-
vaded every Sunday morning by hordes of
American tourists.” “Pickled cowcumbers”
furnished the Sydney concert manager with a
study in evolution. “I saw a fat, jovial
woman sitting on a kerbstone in a narrow
lane, surrounded by about two dozen young-
sters. They were all poking forks into the
two ends of ‘cowcumbers,’ and throwing
them into a barrel for pickling. The larkiness
of the whole crowd was astonishing. The great
joke was to seize an interfering baby, pre-
tend to prod him at both ends with a fork,
and amidst yells of delight from the baby
(the joke was evidently one of the V hite-
chapel chestnuts) affect to drop him in the
pickle barrel.” So apparently the “cow-
cumber,” which Sarah Gamp forgot to lay
in at the banquet which she gave to Eliza-
beth Prig—the one at which Mrs. Prig denied
the existence of Mrs. Harris —was not a
vision, after all, but the name of a real
vegetable.
An Australian in the United States unrolls
several yards of adjectives in describing for
me Ola Humphrey’s locks. They are now a
fine arresting shade in red. Ola herself
speaks with an Irish accent, talks genially of
her Irish temperament (it used to be
French), and looks extremely well and pros-
perous. She is working for the “movies,”
and in September was living in the Alpine
skyscraper in New York.
Irby Marshall, a Queensland girl who
made her start with the Firm in Sydney,
has been playing second-lead in “The Elder
Son,” under the W. A. Brady management in
N’York. In this niece she is the stage daugh-
ter of Cynthia Brooke, the lady who once
moved through “Midsummer Night’s Dream”
in this city as a handsome, chilled-beef edi-
tion of Ilermia.
Isn’t Greenland a queer name for a magis-
trate who lives on the border of what used
to be German Papua? The authority with
the ice-cold and bear-haunted name was
recently interviewed in London as to the
amount of “slavery” in the big island. Mr.
Greenland gave a decisive snap: “None at
all.” He practically told the Exeter Hall
crowd,, which had been wailing in the papers
on the Papuan “slave trade,” that the diffi-
culty was to get the alleged slaves, when
they are on their own, to do more than grow
to-morrow’s yams and maize. A lingering
taste for white man was also hinted by
Greenland’s tropic person.
Another blow! An English paper, hurling
a bouquet at “Labor-governed Australia,”
holds up Mr. Joe Cook as a type of Labor
politician who stands firm on his two feet
when Britain has an enemy at its gates.
The journal in question gives the ex-Prime
Minister a posy for himself. In describing
his pride in remembering the days when he
was a coalminer in Staffordshire, it con-
cludes with three cheers —in a figurative
sense —for the sturdy democrat from the pit-
mouth. There seems to be a kind of con-
fusion afar off as to the exact present color
of Joseph’s coat.
The George Sly family, of Strathfield, was
in Europe when the row began. Son Lyell
promptly enlisted in King Edward’s Horse.
Another Strathfield patriot, a son of the
Arthur Notts, has flung in his lot with the
same force.
One fine morning last week the interior of
Victoria Barracks was lined with motors
and the honk of horns petrolled round the
premises. A mysterious summons to the
effect that Colonel Wallack requested “the
pleasure of your company” at 11 a.m.,
brought along every other daughter of Eve
from our Best Suburbs. Stepping gingerly
out of their chariots Society felt its way, so
to speak, to the gymnasium hall. The drill
hall was mentioned on the card of invitation.
So a few heated women toiled over the great
asphalt square to be turned back to the
trysting place. Wild curiosity was the prevail-
ing feature of the preliminary meet. A few
ancient chairs, backless and more or less seat-
less, with a general appearance of having just
returned from the front, had to pe strongly
reinforced, as Society rolled up to find out
what priceless information it was going to
hear. The whole business was a clever —
moderately clever, because everyone doesn’t
enjoy this kind of trick—dodge, to get a
big gathering to consider a scheme to raise
funds for the Veterans’ Home at Bare
Island.
Some day the Commonwealth will have to
make decent provision for its old soldiers.
The provision will be of national importance,
unless Australia chooses to rest under the
gibe that it turns its warriors out to eat
grass or turnip tops in their old age. The
Veterans’ Home at Bare Island does not
attract any loud applause from the public,
nor a heavy subscription list. It is by way
of being a hobby with Mrs. Hugh Dixson and
other very worthy women. It gives a shelter
to 10 or 11 old Imperial soldiers who have
pensions, and contribute something to their
own support. There is no workhouse in
Australia; so the frequent statement that
these old British pensioners would go to
the workhouse failing the Home (which is
only two or three years of age) is distinctly
humorous. They might go to the next
corner for a long beer, however. V hen we
talk serious business about a Veterans’
Home, the Commonwealth will be forced
by public opinion to establish a place like
Chelsea Hospital. This houses over 500
battered warriors, and is worked in con-
junction with a system of out-pensioning
throughout the empire.
Florence Smithson, the English vaudeville
singer now at the Tivoli, is the owner of a
sweet, bird-like voice, a pair of large blue
eyes, and a limpd manner that doesn’t grip
a Sydney audience. Still, she is an attrac-
tive young woman, of the gentle, fireside
species, and her golden hair is beautifully
smacked down in sleek bands on her brow.
Florence is addicted to azure garments. At
the Battle of Flowers she was joyously
garbed in shimmering turquoise raiment, with
a white water-lily hat perched on her shining
tresses.
A Wairarapa (M.L.) man, Dr. Maclean,
was in charge of the British Hospital at Con-
stantinople a few weeks ago. The shifty
Turk is wobbling so much that it is impossi-
ble to say how busy this hospital may be in
two or three months.
Mary Marlowe, the dark-eyed Australian
girl wiio played with the Bert Bailey com-
pany a couple of years back, sends a breezy
coo-ee from the wilds of a New York men-
agerie. Perhaps this word should be “hotel,"’
but Mary’s hurried penmanship leaves a good
deal to the imagination. Since she left her
native bear and gum-tree, the wanderer has
bumped over the Rocky Mountains twice, has
died for the Pa the FrOre Co. in the snows
of the Catskills (Rip Van Winkle land), lias
swum in the Mississippi and the Missouri
rivers, and has lost some of her respect for
the former. “After a couple of hours’ boat-
ing on its copper-colored waters, we struck
three sandbanks and every uncharted rock
there was time to hit....ln spite of having
gazed at some of the best-advertised scenery
over here, I still think that a little point
in the Blue Mountains, at Katoomba Falls,
is hard to beat.” In the course of her rush
to empty a U.S. inkpot. Mary remarks that
she likes U.S. Americans (except for their
anti-British war sentiments), but hates their
habits. “They spit where they stand,
whether it be on velvet, parquet or plain
earth. They are always in such a tremen-
dous hurry that they seldom have time to
finish anything properly. Perhaps that’s
why the expectoration is always doing, and
never done.” At date of writing the Aus-
tralian girl was playing lead in “The Comedy
of Errors.” with Ben G reefs company.
On October 31 a farewell warble for the
benefit of tenor Phil Newbury is going to try
to hang out a “house-full” sign in the Town
Hall. Various more or less decisive rumors
state that Newbury is going to tour India
and other tnopic strands at an early date.
This is the most non-committal way of put-
ting it. for ours is an uncertain world, and
an Eskimo army may have stormed Cal-
cutta the day before Phil gets there. None
of us know what is going to happen to-
morrow in the Indian Sea. In fact, most of
us don’t even know what happened yesterday
in the next street, but we inwardly hope it
was something wicked.
The silk surfing suit is begirning to attract
the notice of our more Expensive
People as the days grow long and warm.
Some of the vivid blue garments will make
our blonde beauties rise like Aphrodite—
only more so —from Manly’s Aam this sea-
son. And if Sydney continues to pour its
refuse into Manly waters they will rise all
the more suddenly. There are things on
the beach at Manly that would make
Lazarus rise, and also climb a tree.
Dr. Mead, one of a numerous family of
medical missionaries, who graduated at Adel-
aide Uni., has recently been decorated with
the Ivaisar-i-Hind —a silver medal 'of some
distinction—for his good works amongst the
poor in East Bengal.
Actor Heggie, formerly of Adelaide —
you’ll remember his bass growl in “A Message
from Mars” —gives his impressions of
N’York, where he recently produced “The
Garden of Paradise” :
I asked a tramcar conductor in a polite manner
(he had no excuse for objecting to the manner) if I
should get out at 32nd-street to reach a certain
place. “It makes no difference to me whether you
do or don’t,” replied this free-born citizen of the
greatest—you know the rest. This is typical of what
anyone who doesn’t “belong” here is likely to get if
he asks a car-conductor a civil question.
News comes this way of Ivy Scott, now
singing with much success at the Century
/)nern House. N.Y. city. A Sydney girl who
met her says Ivy also sings her everyday
conversation (I suppose songstresses do get
this habit if they don’t put plenty of salt on
its tail), and her “We are ready for the ices,
John 1” ends on a high G !
Chnrlie Coleman, who used to be Julius
Knight’s chief gentleman-help off and on the
stage, has drifted from England to the United
States. He fell into a fat part as an “Eng-
lish” actor in a Broadway theatre.
Still another prod from the innumerable
persons who pass round the hat. The
Veterans’ Home, run by private enterprise
on the eatch-who-catch-cau subscription
basis, is clamoring for help. A concert to
gather up any half-crowns that the average
citizen can still find about his person is
docketed for November IS at the Town Hall.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. —At the War.
T
■{/£-
\
'tr'X
f
\f
A
1/
"V
O'
\
tj
at
&Z 3
> <3‘s&
:rr*>i
w>
m
W.
,p~*
■r-SH
r A
?i
*^§SS
&
K
A?
91
ff
U
V)
\'!H
1
r,
m
’4*
m
it
%
ekft
%
KcT.
%
m
'ink
n
life
m
m
if
m
M
m
%
&
m
W
V!
i'Hi
-
r"—
m
a
XI
b
m
M
m
ms
ft
%
■sSA.
K'!
y.c
its
W 2
'<#2l
n‘Kk•fi
w
m
'■Mi
m
m
m
■or"*
m
'M
•&i
w
r m
'tefrfS
yd*
iM
W
s
&
\
S^S!Kfi3£‘
WgS#
fyid
~3
fc_
-dr
%
■/'yp
0f
'Mi
\
m
u
s?
' ONEL (/ r* t>S
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim F 00,
Does his share
Of trench-work too.
D own behind the
Sand-bags, he
Waits till some
Rash enemy
Rises, lull of
Warlike hate.
“COBRA” wipes him
Off the slate.
With the rifle,
Sword or lance
Chunder’s foemen
H ave no chance.


Farmer’s Bver-Po>ptalaf “ Ranger.”
! J.e
For Summer Wear Farmer’s "Hanger” Suit enjoys great
popularity, because of its smartness, exceptional comfort and
splendid value. For boys of all ages, from 2J and 9 years.
Supplied in following materials: —
In Good Quality Drab Cord. Price 10/-
In S.S.S. Navy Drill, Navy Drill with White Stripes,
Colored and White Drill. Price 10/6
In superior Quality Repp, Tussorine, Linen Drill, etc., in
Drab, Grey and White. Price 11/6
In Finest Quality Linen and Repp, in newest colorings.
Prices: 12/6, 13/6, 14/6.
We Poi/ the Carriage.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
WTIRN TIIE BEST costs no more than the second-
rate, who would have the latter? If you want per-
fect, permanent peneopies when using Penduplicate
books you can get it by insisting on having Zanetic
supplied. Every sheet stamped Zanetic. Free sample
for stamped envelope to Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England.*
BEAUTIFY YOUR HAIR
with a simple, safe, home-made tonic. Get
from any druggist Boz. Bay Rum, loz.
Lavona de Composee, and \ dram Menthol
Crystals. If you like, add. 1 dram of your
favorite perfume. Mix thoroughly, and
apply night and morning with the fingers
to remove dandruff and stop falling hair.
Contains no dye or coloring matter, but one
ingredient, according to the authorities,
actually forces into renewed action the
dormant pigment-forming cells, and thereby
restores prematurely grey hair to its natural
color. This same ingredient is also a power-
ful stimulant to the growth of new hair*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 26, 1614.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Historical Tableau Show, arranged
by the Victorian Artists’ Society, ran for
two nights, last week, at the Masonic Hall,
and attracted our very Noblest at ss. a time.
Hacli tableau was arranged by a genuine
artist arid had specially-painted scenery;
and wlmt with this and what with the folks
participating, there were some interesting
moments in the 21 hours. Professor Osborne
as a blue-cloth Captain Blackwood, Archie
Strong as a Court Gentleman, and a parson
as Walter Raleigh—all these were to be
seen in grease paint behind gauze!
But the star item of the first never-to-be-
forgotten night was Melba playing the role
of auctioneer amid clouds and diamonds and
a Belgian Hag and a Union Jack. Two nice,
brown bluejackets held up the flags while
Melba struggled to wrap herself in them and
called melodiously the while upon racing
plutocrats to bid their beaniest. The Bel-
gian emblem was knocked down at £4O to
T. Reynolds—lie who presented a Bleriot
machine to the Government the other day.
Gertrude Glyn got the Jack for £60 —a mere
trifle, of course, to the absurdly affluent
ones who act for a living.
This auction business is about the most
exciting thing that happens at modern enter-
tainments. It introduces the personal ele-
ment to the proceedings. All the time the
auctioneer has the appeal stop turned on
the audience is wondering why the rich per-
son opposite doesn’t make a really sporting
offer. If the marked citizen does there is the
sensation which the passing of considerable
sums of money always occasions, whereas if
he doesn't the indignant get the satisfaction
of telling stories about his meanness and
calling him a pro-German.
The G.-G. sat next to Melba, who was en-
cased in rose velvet when she wasn’t auction-
ing. Beside her was Mary Wynne, fresh
from Neerin-Neerin, and Mr. and Mrs. Geo.
Armstrong, the latter a vision of silver and
gold wrappings sprinkled with pearl. Lady
Helen was handed a bunch of lily-of-the-
valley and a ITofessor —the latter for pur-
poses of conversation. She wore a wrap of
crimson and black brocaded velvet, a dog-
collar worth its weight in pearls, and a black
frock. Some time after the festivities had
got well under way Lesley Madden was
found lurking modestly near the back of the
hall (yes. absolutely the back, my dear), in
black satin and a baby stare, with an inno-
cent white bandage round her forehead. The
excitement was intense. The discovery of
Livingstone in Central Africa was nothing
to it. Of course she was immediately haled
to the front seats and given Aide Foxton to
talk to, amid profound abasements on the
part of the authorities.
Melba’s party (everyone of whom, by the
way, wore white tulle neck-protectors—
barring, of course, her son George, who
affected a linen collar) left early. There-
after the G.-G. was alone, and he seemed to
feel his position keenly. In fact, if he went
to sleep and pulled himself up with a jerk
once he did it a dozen times. Finally he
left; his throne and sat beside a couple of
other men whom he spied also half-strangled
with suppressed yawns. And finally Lady
Helen was so busy standing at attention for
Oorsave that she forgot to pick up her
dropped bundle of vegetation. You might
imagine from all this that the show was dull.
No, no! The patriotic songs ,bv Horace
Stephens, to the number of ID. were stirring
enough to keep any ordinary gathering
awake. The touch of sleeping sickness
which was noticeable must have been due to
the fact that we have been' taking patriotic
entertainments twice a day these last few
weeks.
The Landale thirst for Teuton gore
appears to be insatiable. Young Douglas,
who was at Cambridge when the war began,
is the latest member of the family to leave
for the shooting line.
Percy Fitzgerald, the Australian cavalry-
man who has just married a duchess, nar-
rowly escaped wedding Lady Constance
Stewart-Richardson. His brother Frank
espoused a daughter of Lord North—
a descendant of George lll.’s famous Prime
Minister. So you see the Debrett habit is
a family failing. Ted and Matt Fitzgerald,
who live here, are among our most per-
sistent Government House frequenters—•
more especially, the tall and haughty-look-
ing, though withal amiable, Ted.
Young Carington—a son of the Colonel
and a grandson of the Horsfall who used
to owp Widgiewa—-has joined the sth
I).Gs. I have told you this several times
already, but it is a rather glorious story,
and so does not pale readily. He is a nice,
clean-looking youth with a distinct gift for
rag-dancing. In fact, if this wretched war
could be only settled by a competition be-
tween him and the Kaiser, either at ragging
or the hesitation waltz. Germany’s towel
would come in on the spot.
Colonel Morris, who married nretty little
Dora Hall just before the Great Miscalcula-
tion began, has been wounded. Not badly, but
sufficiently so to compel his return to Eng-
land. In fact, he has met the precise fate
which every affectionate wife desires for
her husband in war-time. She is heiress to
part of the Wesley Hall money. He is heir
to the Killanin barony and an ex-staff college
officer with a considerable reputation.
Hiss Lesley Madden is still staying with
Mrs. Staughton. I mention this in case
you might imagine that she had gone to the
war. As soon as the duties and perils of
Henley are over the twain leave for Macedon
to stay with the Hodges.
Dr. W. Weston Hearne has climbed into
the clothes of a surgeon-major, and tempo-
rarily abandoned a large suburban practice
to join the Field Ambulance. The popular
doctor is related to the Geelong firm of
manufacturing chemists, and has already
bad experience in mending the wounded.
He hovered on the edge of the Boer annoy-
ance, and. besides being wounded, was cap-
tured with Gatac-re’s crowd at liedesburg.
Mrs. George Fairbairn is in a position
to spur the fainting patriot to more and
more furious financial efforts. Mr. C. F.
Bates has handed her a diamond and opal
ring, which is to be raffled and the proceeds
given to the Red Cross Fund. Napoleon
had to cope with a nation of shopkeepers.
In Australia, that false-alarm Napoleon,
Kaiser Bill, finds himself up against a Fede-
ration of skilled rafflers and auctioneers.
It is a good instance of the way history
plagiarises from itself.
The University has organised a monster
concert in aid of the Red Cross Fund, to
happen in the Exhibition building on Satur-
day at three o’clock. The Phil., Musicians’
Union, Lady Northeote Orchestral Trust.
Festival Choir, Geelong Choral Soc., and
the University Choral Soc. will all be in it;
and Melba has promised to conduct the
massed choirs and orchestras in the Halle-
lujah Chorus —her first appearance with the
baton. The G.-G. and Lady Helen, the Vic.
Governor and Lady Stanley, and lots of
consuls are booked for the affair, which is
under Sutton Crow’s business management.
The Munro Fergusons’ new 7 car is in
keeping both with the times and with the
Scotchb.vtcrianity of the vice-regal house-
hold. There is nothing giddy about it. It
does not suggest the vast life. It is not the
sort of car that looks in place outside the
front door of a suburban public-house. No!
No! It wears the pure cream-colored paint
of a blameless life, and above the radiator a
neat crown, symbolical, possibly, of loyalty,
or mayhap of the fact that the G.-G.’s wife
is the daughter of a marquis.
Florrie Young, Ted Sherras. Reg Rob-
erts and Claude Bantoek threaten to pro-
duce “The Climax” in the Auditorium on
Derby night. They are touring the “smalls”
at present to roaring business.
Lady Doris Blackwood has torn herself
away from the patriotic delights of Mel-
bourne, and settled down for a space at the
John Manifolds’ place near Camperdown.
Ivy Clarke is there too. The idea is, I be-
lieve, by plain living and hard golf, to fit
themselves to undertake even greater
struggles on behalf of the Empire than in
the past.
Mrs. Defence Minister G. F. Pearce has
also left us. She is staying with her small
son at Ilealesville.
The Austral Salon is holding a solemn
and special session on. November 9 to collect
socks. The hosiery must be only in sizes
9 and 10. Any Member bringing socks of,
say, size 16 will be asked to cut them down
ov wear the things herself. The scientific
and military members of the Salon announce
that large-footed soldiers are only useful
as targets, so they are not worth making
socks for.
The “0.T.” Dixon family has taken over
the Bob Nathans’ house in St. Kilda—
furniture, china-dogs, fireirons and doormats
complete. They were just poised for
another bolt to Europe when the strife came
and unbalanced them.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—-
Tlie annual carnival of the Commercial Travellers
and Warehousemen’s, Association transpired at the
Oval on Saturday afternoon. Amongst a crowd of
about 30,000 I observed the vice-regal Galways (with
Miss D’Erlanger, Miss Macaulay and Mr. Mulholland
in the party), patron E. T. Smith, Mayoress Simp-
son and other notables. The Travellers donned strange
garments and performed wild antics; and if the
humor was a thought melancholy now and then, the
object of it condoned all. The proceeds of the
affair went to the usual fund.
Miss E. A. Baiter, a sister of the late R. C. Baker,
has died in England. She was born at Morialta,
near Norton’s Summit, took to philanthropy at an
early age, and finally pained local Protestantism by
joining the Roman Catholic Church. She wrote a
book, which won her a decoration from the Pope, and
helped to found the Dominican Convent and the private
hospital in North Adelaide.
Mr. “Ted” Belt, of Walkerville, also passed over
last week. He was a brother of Francis Belt, who
has poked into more of the earth’s out-of-the-way
corners than most men, and Mr. W. A. Horn, who
is an absentee of a chronic order.
Mr. A. Morey, our last year’s Rhodes scholar, is
struggling to get to the battle front. Incidentally,
Dr. Jermyn, of ML Gambier, leaves here presently
with the full Regiment ami Light: Hose.
An engagement is raging briskly between i ms
Belle Turnbull, who is one of the Bagot elan, and
Mr. George Braundp who used to be a tireless pursuei
of the aniseed rag.
The Tuesday Club met at the May Club on Tuesday
afternoon, with Mrs. John Downer in the chair. Mrs.
Lockhart, Jack and Miss Edvvell opened with a tew
remarks on “the effect of war on character,” and
the debate was sustained fiercely until tea-time.
Miss Carlieu Jurs' and her sister, who have joined
the Peter Dawson eo., are oft', directly, on an Aus-
tralian tour.
The Amblers and their daughter were
welcomed home from a trip to Europe and
America by about 80 excitable friends the
other night. A supper such as would have
astonished Sardanapalus was tendered to
them —a non-committal compliment this,
since any Alelbourne meal would astonish
Sardanapalus in several respects, even il it
didn’t procure the instant, execution of the
cook —and things went with a bang. No
perfectly satisfactory explanation of the wild
affair has been handed in yet. The most
popular theory is that the entertainers, in
the heat of the prevailing war fever, mis-
took the Amblers for a departing contingent.
The Baptist Union is furious with our
Railway Commissioners. The Union avers
that 30,000 misguided persons—many of
them Baptists who might otherwise have
been attending chapel when the plate
was circulated—travel out to Broadnieadows
on the Sabbath to see the soldiers. The
idea of the Union is that the soldiers ought
to be deprived of the company of their rela-
tives on the Sabbath on the off-chance that
the populace, or at least some of it, might
he driven by sheer boredom into the churches.
A thoroughly clerical sentiment, isn’t it?
The Stanleys are giving a party on
November 4, and the scene of the revels is
to be, of all strange spots, “the Public
Library, Aluseums and National Gallery.”
It sounds rather like a proposal to make
merry in a sarcophagus. Still these are dull
days when any sort of a kick-up is grate-
fully received, and you may safely lay your
week’s Red Cross takings to an attack of
hay fever that the whole world will be there.
The National Rose Society’s show should
have heeu opened in the Alelbourne Town
Barn ere this reaches you. Atelba, who is
still at the T. H. Kellys’ place near Bowral
(N.S.W.), has promised to journey over and
turn the key. In spite of woolly aphis,
caterpillars, drought, famine, mildew, dust
and depression in the copra trade, the roses
promise to be the usual color, shape and
size as in the past; the same kind of tea
will be on tap; and a trophy worth £25,
given by A. 11. Sargood, goes to the pro-
ducer of the best nine roses in the amateur
section.
Alaude Harvie, the young woman who has
constituted herself a sort of veterinary
Florence Nightingale, is still flying round
collecting bandages, salt, oatmeal and so on
for the-horses o.f the Expeditionary Forces.
The Defence Department is shouting her a
ticket to Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide and
Hobart, where she will see to it that her
friends the animals are made as comfortable
as possible on the sea trip ahead of them.
The Red Cross Society got the takings
from a concert given in the Town Hall the
other night by Air. De Chaneet, with the
usual assistance from John Arnadio, Elsa
Warman, Horace Stevens, Alargery Grey
and all the rest of them. De Chaneet had
three of his own compositions on the menu.
It took three pianos, a flute and a violin to
play one, and two pianos and the organ to
accomplish another. The audience never so
much as flinched.
Captain Browning, R.F.A., who was
killed in action the other day, was one of
Governor Talbot’s A.D.C.’s. He was a
pleasant young man, with a certain genius
for cricket.
Eva Staer, who was studying piano-
playing when the war began, made a
strategic retreat on London without delay.
She has just cabled her people to say that
she is safe and touching wood.
The Girls’ Guild Union —750 of them —
gave physical displays in the Alelbourne
Town Hall as a Red Cross effort the other
night. Lady Helen turned, on one of her
most patient come-what-may-I-shall-stand-it-
all smiles, and Alfred Deakin turned on his
eloquence. The Girls propose to have an-
other display in the same building on Nov-
ember 21.
The death in New York, last week, of
Ronald Cameron makes a widow of an Aus-
tralian girl who was the sensation of Alel-
bourne a couple of Cups ago. She had
just married her millionaire husband —who
was much older than she, by the way-—and
her lovely face and perfect figure in unim-
peachable Paris clothes stopped the traffic
all over the place for a week or so. She was
originally Miss Enid Lindemann, a daughter
of the big wine-growing house.
Henley occurred on Saturday in awful
heat and a wind that was largely
brickdust. Gallant young Knights of
the Lace Counter paddled their Pink
Princesses from the Ribbons Depart-
ment in bright-hued canoes, and in the in-
tervals related the old, old lying tale and
drank ginger-beer with daring scorn of the
consequences. There were only seven house-
boats, and you could walk along the pro-
menade without having your left turned or
your right wing bent by the massed bat-
talions present. Withal it would be wrong
to call the place deserted. As a matter of
fact, the dowdy old Yarra fairly bubbled
with excitement to find itself prinked out
with bunting, art muslin, colored paper and
paint, and thousands of summer girls. It
was a truly brilliant scene of bright sun-
light. and crimson faces, and perspiration,
and lemonade, and brass bands, and more
lemonade and tea, and green lawns, and the
seven house-boats above mentioned, and more
bands and more girls.
Airs. Geo. Fairbairn entertained on the
president’s lily-trimmed boat, in white linen
and a marguerited hat. Governor Stanley
came early—and again alone, I grieve to
relate. Ilis pretty little wife means to be
well enough for the Derby and Cup, I hear,
or perish in the effort. G.-G. Munro Fer-
guson arrived on board just in time for a
fire. A fire on the Yarra is less awful than
a fire at sea, and anyhow this was a small
one. The flames were speedily conquered,
and the G.-G.’s party—all clothed in white
except his Ex. and Aide Foxton —escaped
without a singe. Lady Helen fought the
heat with a fan and cream twill awnings
topped with a pink rose-studded hat. Lady
Doris Blackwood (just back from the coun-
try) was white veiled, with a blue sash,
a lid Miss Mandeville, who is small and neat,
appeared in white c-repe and a large corn-
flowered mushroom hat. Airs. lion. sec. John
Lang (who made the water-lily trimmings)
wore a paper parasol and a white china
silk frock.
The Ileunessys’ craft was a floating adver-
tisement of file intensity of their patriotism,
being a solid mass of Belgian, French, Aus-
tralian, Russian and Japanese flags, with
shields to match. Airs. Henuessy wore
white linen, and fed, amongst others, Airs.
Rogers Thomson, niece Pauline Henness.v
(in cream voile), the Henry Weedon lady,
widow L. L. Smith, and the usual horde of
Civic Alothers.
Lesley Aladden, simply garbed in white
and the Belgian colors, led an army of tea-
dispensers. They put up a good old British
light oil board one of the house-boats on
behalf of the Girls’ Training Home, and
won financially, in the end, all along the line.
Airs. 8. T. Staughton (in black silk), the
Frank Aladden (laughters, I lie Baillieu
girls, Zara Morris, Violet liowan, Nola
Jenkinson, two Officer girls. Airs. Davidson
and Aliss Armytage were amongst the brave
little baud who struggled with the tea-cups,
Another art-muslined barge dealt out tea
and seats at large prices in aid of the
Foundling Hospital. In - command were
Airs. O’Hara and her daughters Nan and
Betty, Airs. F. Knight, Airs. Alonty Cohen,
Airs. Luxen, Airs. G. W. Brown, Bertha
Ballenger and others. Large notices
ordered tea-consumers to leave the premises
as soon as possible and make room for others.
This request provoked strong language from
many of the large, hot dames who had come
not only for sustenance, hut for rest as well;
but' it is hard to be charitable and wholly
comfortable at the same time, and the
angered ones realised it. Anyhow, they got
out into the pitiless sunshine with admirable
despatch.
The Overseas raft waved yards of red,
white and blue, and was highly popular both
on account of its music, which was dis-
coursed by the Alagpie Orchestra, and its
food, which was free. Airs. T. H. James, the
only woman allowed on the Board of the Over-
seas Club, was in a panama hat, a pleasant
smile and white crepe hangings.
The Wallaby Club boat was- done in yel-
low and white, ajid the Henley Association
craft wore blue.
In the evening the crowd was stickier,
larger, wearier and hotter than ever. Or
anyhow it looked it, and people don’t
act these things, my dear, as a
general thing. Fireworks showered colored
rain over the decorated boats, and every-
thing everywhere showed up in a splendid
blaze. I think I have now told you every-
thing, except, of course, about the racing.
But who goes to Henley to see a number of
absurd young men, in inadequate clothes,
pushing dangerously narrow boats through
the water —if one can call it water?
Yours, till Johanna’s return,
ANNE SMITH.
It is really probable that if the N.S.W.
Government was turned loose in the Mint,
and had all the sold given to it free, it
would make a deficit. As a samnle : In the
September quarter of 191.4 the gross earn-
ings of its railways and tramways were
£109.588 more than for the corresponding
quarter of 1915. And through certain for-
tuitous circumstances 99,155 fewer miles
were run, at a great saving of coal, wages,
engine grease, etc., so that the luck was good
at both ends. Yet expenses increased by
£115,225, and as the interest bill also in-
creased very largely, the net result was a
lot worse than before. It always is a lot
worse than before with Holman.
“Jeames” :—•
Sydney Telegraph has done nothing better in ihe
comic “bloomer” line than its casual mention
(2fi/10/’l4) that “the committee has closed the
Athenseum Club, one of the most aristocratic clubs
in Pall Mall. The club was the rendezvous of many
wealthy aliens in London.” The idea of the
Athenseum • being a suspected meeting-place of alien
spies would appeal to the Archbishops and other
excessively respectable folks who belong to it. 11. B.
Irving told a story illustrative of the conventions of
this club when he was last here. He was elected
to it as the son of his father, and a representative
English actor, and went, one night to have a look
at the inside. He asked an aged man whom he took
to be a steward or waiter or something where the
library was. The stranger led him there, and then
asked eagerly if he- would care to see the card-rooms.
Irving said yes, and in this way he was presently
shown over the entire club. At the end of the expedi-
tion Irving heartily thanked his guide. “Don't men-
tion it, Mr. Irving,” said the stranger warmly.
“I've belonged to this club for 27 years, and you're
the first member that has spoken to me.” The'
Athenaeum stands in a peerless position on a corner
of Pall Mall, with.sl‘The Rag,” London's most famous
military club, on the corner opposite. The institu-
tion which has been shut down is probably a place
called the Hamburger Athenaeum, which used to be
in Cockspur-street, but shifted a decade ago from
there to Dean-street, Soho.


m
V>*'
i
HD
SCOTCH
0
;
@4
451 ’ , :
.’“ 7 J
•' ‘
I ««K
-o ;
4*»/
3JSSI
; :~-
--■ -»■*»—■' -—i
IW
£J
i
jjjeysg
4 ‘V 1
.Wi.vcr \
: i'3& '• - • >.•:
wm
w :
»AS ~
fei
4W,f..;S' #& ■
;wjp*
P.Mi
■ ■
•'• a
m
/**•« W<«
*
*>H «»** W-
* $
?
■Zv'jmm:
'
<W*W W F:: '”, - -v
£ie?-iT> ■ i .
»
■»?
£S3SS»2
«•'*«• y* .. ~j ,•.
*& '■; -’\.i
v
HI
a®
ItJ
:&en~."%For£J a. n-«


The FxBR WATCHES
Are the most extraordinary watches of the
age.
They are f-plate levers.
They have brequet overcoil hair springs.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They have compensated and adjusted bal-
ancGS.
They are' specially made to stand rough
'riding and knocking about.
They go with profound accuracy.
Thev are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept
‘in order free of charge (breakages ex-
cepted) for two years.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN figures—strictly cash.
Gent.’s Full-
Sized Open
Face Oxidised
Steel, fully
Jewelled,
Fx & R Lever
Watch, 33/-
/
What is the Best Beauty Soap
for the Complexion ?
There is at present a great controversy
o-oing on in the English newspapers about
the best soap to use for the complexion.
Some advocate the use of one and some
another kind, but they are all satisfied on
one or two points, and those are that for a
soap to be beneficial to the skin, must be
one without coloring matter, and without a
lot of strong, coarse, irritating perfume being
added, and also that the soap must be made
from good ingredients without a preponder-
ance of soda, which makes the skin hard.
An English soapmaker has been able to
combine all the above good qualities in a
soap and at the same time to incorporate
some of the puritol wax, which is so much
in demand as a complexion beautifier and
protective, so that on washing with Puritol
Wax Soap there is a trace of the wax left
on the skin, which, by its continuous sooth-
ing and corrective action on the skin and
its pores, keeps it in a healthy and pure
state, and prevents the formation of pimples
and blemishes on it.
THE HOWARD: Exact.
In 1829 Edward Howard was apprenticed to
Aaron Willard, Jun., the descendant of a long
line of English Watchmakers, who settled in the
Massachusetts Colony about the middle of the
eighteenth century. rT
In 1840 he started in business for himself. Up
to that time watches had always been made bv
handwork exclusively. Howard’s plan "as to
make automatic tools that should perfect the
parts of a watch, leaving to the hand the task or
assembling and finishing the parts.
In 1842 the first Howard Watch was produced
—a thoroughly practical watch. The Howard of
to-day is the' finest practical timepiece in the
world for a man to carry in his pocket.
It has a patented hard-tempered steel balance,
which will not knock out of true with the jolt
and jar of the severest service.
Peary carried a Hojvard on his trip to tne
Pole.
Orville Wright relied on a Howard in his Aero-
plane Tests. . , , .
Admiral Chas. D. Sigsbee carried a Howard for
Send your address for the Illustrated Watch
catalogue.
PROUDS LTD.,
Jewellers and
Watchmakers,
187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A DEEP-SEA CHANTEY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The difficulties with which we are faced' are due
mainly to the paralysis of the outside markets tor
wool, metals and money. Under normal conditions
he wool clip of N. S. AVales would have been worth,
say, 13 millions ; our metals, say, six millions, whilst
the amount of money borrowed outside and expended
in the State last year was about eight millions.
The total of these three items is, roughly, it
millions. — Sydney Telegraph.
■in Sydney Harbor we did ride—
Yeo-ho ! haul her round !
When the .Old Man he fell over the side —
And a good job, too!
The night was thick and the tide was strong,
The anchor-watch saw nothing go wrong.
Xext day we cleared for the port o Hongkong
And a good job, too !
The first mate wore his whiskers thick —
And a good job, too !
Hut he was a sailor, good an’ slick —
Steady, there steady!
The watches lie fixed, and the course lie set,
And the look in his eye we won’t forget,
When he heard the Old Man was down in the Wet—
And a good job, too !
Says he to me, as I took my trick:
“Keep her so, sonny!”
Was the skipper drunk, or was he sick?
Nor’-west by North, there!
“It beats me,’’ says the First Mate, “how
The Old Man’s gone, an’ where he is now—
There’s sure to be no end of a row !
And a good job, too!
“By the Cape Horn Ghost, but we’re in a muck!
Watch, shorten sail!
The Old Man’s left us nothing but truck —
Hurry now, all hands !
It’s thick ahead, and the glass is low,
And we’re in for a deuce of a time, I know—
Take in the tops’ls ! It’s going to blow!
And a good job, too!
“Whoosh! but the sea’s getting up fast!
All hands reef mains’l!
Lord alone knows how long it’ll last—
Lay aft to rig life-lineh!”
There ain’t much ballast; she’s flying light
With an ugly. lee-shore fair in sight,
And we’re here on the stormy deep to-night
In the old ship IOU!
N'.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A THIN PRETENCE.
A German spy in disguise joined the Indian troops.
He accompanied them to Marseilles, where he was
detected and arrested.— French paper.
The Sikh on the Right (to himself):
" Dis spy pizness iss no choke! I pet dot
costume feller aindt given me der right
viskers.”
The N.S.W. Government plunged a few
weeks ago by fixing a maximum price for
wheat (4s. 2d. per bushel), «o that the
farmer couldn’t get more —in fact, after pay-
ing railway charges, he was bound to get
less. Now’ it plunges again with a proposal
to fix a minimum price, and guarantee that
the farmer won’t get less. The proposal is
rather shapeless as yet, but it is understood
that, in some way. the State is to “co-operate
with the banks” in financing the farmer.
How a State which depends on banks and
money-lenders to finance itself will help the
banks to finance somebody else is doubtless
to be explained later on.
The best of recent comment on Peacocks
rhetorical methods came from ex-Labor leader
Prendergast. Peacock, as Premier, had made
a long statement to the A ic. Assembly pio-
l’essing to deline the (Government s attitude
towards the Melbourne Tramway Co., whose
lease expires in a couple of years. After a
rather worse whirl of words than usual
Peacock sat down and Prendergast got up.
“Now,” said the Laborite, “will the Premier
be so kind as to tell us what it is he has told
us.”
Willie Kelly isn’t heard of much these
days, but lie was mentioned in the House
of Reps, a few days ago. Members were dis-
cussing .whether Ministers administering de-
partments over and above the seven allowed
for bv the Constitution should be ‘Honorary
Ministers” or “Assistant Ministers, when
Glynn (who was Minister for External
Affairs in the Cook Government) told I rime
Minister Fisher this concerning Millie:—
As a matter of fact, the so-called Assistant Minister
of Home Affairs in the last Administration was merelj
a member of the Executive Council, anil was onlv
colloquially designated Assistant Ministei.
Mr. Mahon: That is all that is being done now.
Mr. Joseph Cook: Then it is a farce.
The Bulletin was never unpleasant enough
to go as far as that regarding little W line;
but. if the ex-Prime Minister insists, well,
this paper can’t stop him.
Australia has just as much luck as it
deserves when it comes to the importing ol
dredges. Some turn turtle like the Man-
chester and disappear. Others, hugging some
coast for safety, hit a rock and go to the
bottom. Still, the insane practice of im-
porting them, or trying to import them, goes
on. Tasmania was responsible tor the
latest attempt to thus do Australian Labor
and Capital out of a job. 1 his time the
German warship Emden, which has been
doing so much damage in the Indian Ocean,
sighted the lumbering ark ; and the lumbei
ing ark, being slow on its feet, could
make no run for it, and was promptly sent
to the bottom. Incidentally, it is notified
that the very necessary imnrovements to the
River Tamar will now have to be suspended :
so Tasmania’s folly rises up and hits it in
both eyes at once.
Though N.S.W. Premier Holman went a
good deal about the poor outlook and the
drought and the war, he estimated that the
State revenue, without any new taxation,
would be £18,770,000 for the year to June,
1915, as compared with £18,420,.><>2 last
year. He professed to have had a surplus
of over £370,000 last year, and he promised
not only hard economy but a bigger revenue
this year. His only excuse for new taxa-
tion 'is that his loan money, raised to
“develop the great natural resources of the
country,” has been so badly expended that
it has added greatly to the public burdens,
and hasn’t developed worth a copper. It is
a poor excuse, but perhaps it is better than
none. To put it shortly, he seems to say:
“I was politically drunk and incapable, yer
Worship!”
“G. V. W.” : Holland,
Hickey, Semple and red-
raggery in general sit
like tombstones on the
chest of the Labor move-
ment in Maoriland. In
their capacity of Social
Democrats they are now
preparing to hand the
fruity old Tory crowd a
number of democratic
seats. Thus they are
putting up candidates
both for Wellington Cen-
tral and East. Given a
clear run, Fletcher, chair-
man of the windy city’s
Harbor Board, would
push Customs Minister
Fisher out of the first-
named (Fisher was
within five votes of the
edge last time), while
the East is Laborite
McLaren’s old seat and
would be again if
social Democracy omitted
to come to the aid of
Toryism. It is a queer
anachronism that but for
Maoriland’s noisiest and
most violent democrats its
noisiest and most violent Tories would be
dumped into the political rubbish tip.
Blackburn, who succeeded Watt as member
for Essendon, has proposed that the Vic.
Local Government Act shall prevent muni-
cipalities purchasing goods, machinery or
material outside the Commonwealth unless
the Minister is satisfied that such articles
cannot be locally purchased except at un-
reasonable prices, or in insufficient quantity,
or of inferior quality. Prahran city council
decided to ask the local M’s.l’- to oppose the
clause. Eight of the councillors voted this
way, and five against, including a Cr. Mor-
ris, who said that: —
Owing l to their having relied on foreign importa-
tions, certain classes of machinery were now unob-
tainable except at exorbitant rates. They should learn
a lesson from Germany. (Cries of “No! No!”)
Apparently the heretical doctrine of “learn-
ing a lesson from Germany” did the business.
They would rather be starved by an English-
man than fed by a German ; yet these one-
eyed “loyalists” oppose legislation intended
t > exclude German manufactures.
THE SEEKERS.
Yesterday the Federal Government gave a promise
to erect tents for any members of Parliament who
desire to visit Canberra and inspect the work that is
not done there. —Sydney TELEGRAPH, 22/'[?].
AUSTRALIAN: "‘Now, gentlemen —the mirage."
Peake lias “Dismal Dick” Butler in liis
Ministry, and therefore couldn’t reasonably
expect good luck; nevertheless he hopes to
carry S. Aus. through to the end of the
current year without a deficit, in spite of
war and drought. Of course this is only
managed by a mild little fake. Under the
S. Aus. law every surplus has to be collared
and used in reduction 'of the debt; and the
State has had such rattling good times that
between 1906 and 1918 £2,202,906 was thus
made available towards reducing the lOu.
Times, in fact, were so good that nobody
worried about cutting down taxation ; hence
the past year, to June 80, -n spite of the
fact that the drought had already begun to
bite, showed a surplus of £218,636. The
current year is expected to show a deficit ot
£214,082, so the thing is squared by throwing
the old, good resolutions overboard, and
making last year’s plenty pay for this year’s
poverty. Fortunately S. Aus. didn’t, have a
Holman. If it had there wouldn’t have been
any surplus. Holman would have stayed
awake for a week if it took as long as that
to think up a new way of scattering any few
odd coppers left in the stocking.
DIABOLICAL DUPLICITY.
A GERMAN R ESIDENT: “Mein Gott, Pibroch-
stein, dat vas diabolical. Haf der sorrows
of our afflicted countdry drive you mad? ”
MUSICAL G ERMAN: “ Nein , mein Herr. It
vas show my loyalty to der British flag
vas above suspicion, and it vas der most
suitable instrument whereon to eggsbress
my real feelings .”
The Maoriland Government lately fixed the
price of wheat at 4s. 9d. per bushel, yet
Premier Massey admitted that the Govern-
ment had blown a large hole through its own
regulation by paying ss. per bushel for its
own supply of thistles. This makes it look
something of an ass, unless it was an ass
already, and always looked that way, and
was simply wearing its customary aspect,
and couldn’t be made to present a more
remarkable resemblance to itself than the
resemblance it had always presented to
itself.
Premier Massey (M.L.), faced with
the general election, has had luck in
some of his friends. The other day
43 men were wiped out by an explo-
sion in the Huntly Colliery, which
belongs to the Taupm Coal Co. Don-
cerning that disaster there has b
an official inquiry, at which trank
Reed, a mining inspector, deciaieu
that six times he had warned the
Mines Department that the fearfully
inflammable” coal-dust might be
ignited by a small explosion of gas,
that there were “all the conditions or
a holocaust,” and that the use of
safety lamps should be compulsory.
Three or four months ago, acting, no
doubt, under the stimulus of these
reports, the Government introduced a
Rill giving mining inspectors power
to insist on the use of safety lamps.
The measure ambled slowly towaiu
the statute book, and while it was on
its way a deputation, which included a
representative of the Taupiri Co., went
to Wellington, and just then the lull
quietly disappeared. After that, tne
cheap naked light continued to be used
in Iluntly; apd the widows and
orphans tell the rest of the tale. A
Government explanation about the lost
Bill is expected. It' will probably contain
10 527 words, and emphasise the Govern-
ment's devotion to the interests of the people.
Respecting the judgment of the High
Court in the tramways appeal case i rime
M inister Fisher said :
It is a waste of time to worry through long am
intricate decisions dealing with matters that can he
rectified by a stroke of the pen by the people It
people knew the legal entanglements that are pie-
venting real progress... .they would brush them aside
in a day.
And yet the same Andrew Fisher, ques-
tioned the same day about unifying the
railway gauges, stated that the power or
the Federal Government to proceed with
the work was undoubted, but “it was not
the intention of the Government to proceed
summarily, but only after consultation and
in co-operation with the States. \\hat
hope is there of five separate and distinct
State Governments agreeing to fix up the
railway-gauge problem at once, or tor that
matter, in years?
Anybody who nowadays mentions the fix-
ing of prices to a farmer is liable to be
bayoneted with a pitchfork. When he could
have got ss. for his wheat the farmer was
compelled to sell it for anything from 4s. 3d.
to 4s. 9d. (according to the State he was
in), on the ground that it was worth only
4s. 3d. (or 4s. 9d., as the case may be) when
the war started. Now, having no hay of his
own, he lias to buy chaff to keep his teams
alive, and he finds that, though the Commis-
sion fixed the price of what he had to sell,
it hasn’t fixed the price of what lie has to
buy, wherefore he is being rooked for ti or
more for a ton of fodder that was worth only
£4 or so when the war started. Meantime
Governments are yelling to the farmer to bog
in and grow extra wheat next season, and
thus make things more comfortable than
they otherwise promise to be for the army
of parasites.
The Victorian elections fall due
next month, and the Liberals will
face the electors with a barren
record in one hand and a collection
of uninspiring promises in the
other. In its three years’ life the
present Parliament has had five
Ministries, led by Yawn Murray,
Willy Watt, Laborite Elmslie (for
12 days), Watt some more, and the
hilarious Peacock. With the excep-
tion of Queensland, Victoria is the
only State that has not given Labor
a fair chance in office; and it has to
be confessed that the party in Vic-
toria hasn’t done much to commend
better treatment. For years it suf-
fered from George Michael Prender-
gast as leader, and Elmslie will
have to improve a lot to be very
much better.
At last one Parliamentary candidate has
thrown out a venerable piece of humbug.
Instead of describing himself as a jour-
nalist, which he never was, or a miner,
which he left off being 20-odd years ago,
this honest Laborite in Westralia confesses
frankly to his new profession. On his nomi-
nation paper he declared that he got his
living by being a legislator.
For a few wild moments the Labor-and-
Prey Government of N. S. Wales had
thoughts of making everybody in receipt ot
over £l5O a year contribute a trifle towards
maintaining the State’s extravagance. The
idea at the time was to sweep employees of
the Government into the net with the others.
But when figures were gone into a horrible
discovery was made: it was found that, in
the public service, at any rate, there are
more tradesmen, etc., getting over £l5O a
year than clerks and professional men. At
the thought of taxing its own flesh and
blood, so to speak, the Blanc-Mange Gov-
ernment fell into a shapeless heap; and the
idea was promptly discarded.


Patriotic Airs & Selections
on EDISON RECORDS.
The Patriotic, National and Imperial airs and selections obtainable on Edison
Records are in a wide variety and well up to the usual Edison standard. Of course,
there are so many of them it is impossible to publish a complete list. But we
name some that will give you an idea of the thrilling and beautiful pieces you may
select. Call on your local Edison dealer, ask him to play any on this list you
fancy, also to acquaint you of others that are procurable but not mentioned here.
THOMAS A. EDISON, Ltd. (Wholesale Only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
“INVINCIBLE”
MARINE, STATIONARY &
PORTABLE OIL ENGINES
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Now is the time to equip your place with LABOR-SAVING and
WEALTH-INCREASING Machinery.
Get an Oil Engine. Get THE Oil Engine —the
“INVINCIBLE.”
It is by far the best. It will save you money, and it will save you
worry. Don’t buy anybody’s aggravating box of tricks, full mechanical
puzzles and brain-racking difficulties.
THE “INVINCIBLE”
is absolutely the simplest on the market. It is easy to learn and easy to
run. You do not need to be an engineer to get it to work. Just follow
the simple instructions and it will work for you steadily, cheerfully and
cheaply, year after year.
We keep huge stocks, and can thus DELIVER PROMPTLY. Also
we have a large and highly-trained staff to instal and start you RIGHT.
We show and demonstrate these engines at twenty-five of the princi-
pal towns of this State, and, if you’re in Sydney, we’ll be glad to give you
all information and show you the engine you want running under
practical conditions.
OUR PRICES HAVE NOT BEEN INCREASED.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.,
Works: Woolwich. Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS for Stationary and Portable Engines
for New South Wales: ,
JAMES BELL & CO., 109 Pitt Street. Sydney
Books for Designers.
There are highly=paid billets waiting for
those who can produce original work. Our
books WILL HELP YOU.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
DRAUGHTSriEN.
PRICE
Post Free
Building Plans and How to
Draw Them, by Hicks 2/8
Architectural Drawing, by R. P.
Spiers, F.R.1.8.A 11/-
Architectural Perspective, by Hicks,
A simple treatise for beginners. Fully
illustrated 2/8
A Manual of Mechanical Draw-
ing, by Johnston 10/G
Text-Book of Machine Construc-
tion and Drawing, by Clrowther.. 1/5
Practical Workshop Drawing, by
A. L. Duthie 1/4
Practical Draughtsmen’s Work.
By Hasluck 2/2
Geometrical Drawing for Art
Students, by I. 11. Morris 2/8
Handbook for Machine Designers
and Draftsmen, by Frederick A. Hal-
sey, 8.M.E., 1913. Large quarto book,
490 pages. A very valuable and useful
book 25/6
A Manual of Engineering Draw-
ing, for Students and Draftsmen, by
T. E French 11/-
Mechanical Drawing, a practical
Manual of self-instruction in Drafting,
Lettering and Reproducing Plans and
Working Drawings, by E. Kenison.... 5/4
Machine Design, Construction
and Drawing, a text-book for young
engineers, by H. J. Spooner, C.E., 1913,
with 126 tables,' over 1600 figures and
446 exercises .. . . 13/-
Elements of Machine Design,
Part 1., by W. C. Unwin, 600 pages..
9/6
SIGNWRITERS.
PRICE
Post Free.
Glass Writing, Embossing anti
Fascia Work, by Hasluck 1/1
Signs, Tickets, Posters, by Hasluck 1/1
Modern Showcard Lettering, De-
signs, etc., with 2000 bright and
clear-cut Advertising phrases 3/8
Strong’s Book of Designs 20/6
Art of Showcard Writing, by
Strong 10/10
Jewellers’ Showcard Instructor 3/8
Druggists’ and Dispensers’ Show-
card Instructor 3/8
Book of Monograms, Devices,
etc., by Brodie and Middleton 2/8
Book of Ornament, containing Bor-
ders, Corners, etc., from the earliest
period to the present time . . 2/8
Lettering in Ornament, the decora-
ative use of lettering, etc., by Lewis
Day 6/4
Monograms and Ciphers, by Tur-
boyne. Over 1200 large designs..., ... 3/4
Signs, Alphabets, Scrolls, for Sign-
writers and Coachpailiters, 1914..., 10/6
Instructions on Modern Show-
card Writing, by J. G. Bissell, 1913 2/8
Faust’s Complete Card-Writer,
Lessons and Alphabets, for Air Brushes
and Relief Pencils 8/3
Letter Painting Made Easy, by
Badenoch 1/8
A Show at Sho’cards, comprehen-
sive, complete, concise, by Atkinson.
Gives expression to the methods most
in vogue with present-day experts 26/-
The Australian Lettering Book.. -/7
Decorative Designs of all Ages,
for all purposes, with many engravings,
by Hasluck 1/1
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
TECHNICAL BOOK DEPOT,
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
1
Mark Twain s
COMPLETE WORKS
MARK TWAIN is known to more people of all
conditions, the world over, than any other
writer of the nineteenth century. Humorist,
printer, pilot, miner, journalist, traveller, lecturer,
novelist, publisher—he has seen life in many aspects.
It is as a humorist that he is best known, but, although
his humor is of world-wide appeal, his reputation does
not rest on it alone.
In Mark Twain's varied writings —short stories,
novels, autobiography, travel, history, essays—there is
keen observation, much thought, and a wonderfully
rich imagination—a combination which places him in
the first rank of the world’s writers. He has those
qualities which appeal to all Huckleberry Finn’s
genial tolerance of human failings united to the high
ideals of his “Joan of Arc.”
HK5*
'■ 'j'tfSi i'.issSt-i. =M?l ;
- ' ■■ •■ '££;■ *¥>$? J^vs,*
; £#|: ,431 M S3
*‘ J -N£:,.?
«■**»
• v{ J-.rf
4
■'■ -w.<‘
w*fi
> fig
«2.;
'• .(.-. -;-i /■ :.
A-
; t pi tip
T£g&
»V<
A.yf *3S^
;:K|| **
t-M >:;4vi
■A-C j/liil
Smes4
jAi'a
m
V* 1 ?
HEBgSSn ■
STANDARD EDITION-TWENTY-FIVE] VOLUMES
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO, PTY. LTD., having the exclusive rights of
the only complete and authorised books of Mark Twain, now offer a splendid edition
of the famous humorist’s works, complete in twenty-five volumes. The volumes
are beautifully printed, and artistically bound in rich red cloth, with gold tops,
gold backs, and deckled edges. The alone are a trer.t, being by such
artists as J. G, Brown, Frost, Smedley, Peter Newell, Kemble, Dan Beard, and
ItsL.
k C-a-^A-s.
THE STANDARD PUBLISHING CO. PTY. LTD.
others equally well known.
Remember, these are
copyrighted books sold
only by us. This is
a rare opportunity
to secure a set
which should
be-in every
•Australian
library.
/ The
Standard
/ Publishing
/ Co. Pty. Ltd.
/ Melbourne
./ t3* Please
/ send, absolute-
/ ly without cost or
/ any obligation, illus-
/ trated booklet of Mark
/ Twain’s Complete Works
/ feend this form or a post card,
/ mentioning bulletin, 15,104,
Name
Address


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARPIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LifllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LOCAL DOCTOR
RECOMMENDS DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
Manv people who have to live in Queens-
land, particularly the North, tind the climate
very trying, and that it is necessary to <
a remedy of some description regularly to
J keep the liver
working. That
Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills
are just suited
for this is illus-
trated in the fol-
lowing letter re-
ceived from Mrs.
Elsie Banks, of
GO Judge Street
Petrie Terrace,
Brisbane, Q-
who writes that
her local doctor
advised her to
take Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root
Pills, which she
did, with the ut-
most satisfaction. “I was living.” writes
Mrs. Banks, “in North Queensland for some
years, and became completely run down in
health, which state was followed by indiges-
tion. I suffered pain and giddiness, and
with many symptoms all tending to make
my condition serious, and needing speeds
relief. 1 tried almost everything to relieve
mv suffering, until a friend and a local
doctor recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills as a good general remedy, and I
am now never without them in my home.
I noticed after taking the first bottle ot
your pills that I was recovering my old
condition of vigorous health, which has now
been fully restored for many years. My
family also find Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills effective. You may use this statement
for publication.”*
m
Mrs. BANKS.
{From a photo.)
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A story of Arsenal’s Cup. Harry
Raynor trained the horse, and his owner, ‘'Rill”
Gannon, fancied him so much that he determined to
be in the market early and get the cream of the
betting. He engaged a commissioner to take the
long odds offering; but this man let another big owner
and punter into the secret —on the usual terms, the
odds were duly accepted ; the longest prices were
booked lor the punter, the shorter ones tor the
owner. Gannon was riled, and “laid’’ for his over-
smart friend. They were both at Menzies shortly
before the Cup was due. One evening at dinner
Gannon received a -wire, which he opened at his
leisure and read. Its* contents made him Mjjjice. The
punter’s mouth dropped, too. “Anything wrong with
the horse?” he asked. Gannon handed him the tele-
gram. It was from Raynor, stating that Arsenal had
gone wrong, and it was doubtful if he could start.
The punter, as Gannon expected, put the business of
laying-off into the hands of a commissioner. As fast
as the best were offered they were taken, most of
rhem by one man. The punter knew him, and
thought he would warn him against backing “a dead
’un.” “That’s strange,” said the other. “I am back-
ing’ the horse for the owner!” Then the punter smelt
a rat. lie went to his commissioner and told him
not to lay any. more Arsenal money off. “I can’t —
I’ve laid.it already.” “And Gannon’s got it,” was
the feeling reply. It was quite true. Gannon had
got square. As a matter of fact, Arsenal did go off
his feed, but Raynor got him to the post fit, and
Gannon made a pile.
* * * *
Two weeks previous to Melbourne Cup
there was only one short-priced horse on the book-
makers’ cards' that was not pretty certain lo be
quoted at longer odds on the morning of the race.
Meanwhile there was (and still is) the risk of a
breakdown, a cough, or other form of going wrong to
l»o considered in every case. None of the fancied
nags will be worth backing at lkey’s present price
until after Derby day, and the chances are that not
more than two of them at the most will then get a
market rise. Others will certainly go back m the
betting. Should Woorak run away with the Derby—
a probable result—that rarely-defeated three-year-old
will be thought of as another Newliaven, and be
backed accordingly. Although the flying’ Woorak &ot
beaten at the finish of the A.J.C. Derby he stayed
very well, considering that he was fighting lor Ins
head most of the time. And the difference between
Sst. 101 b. and 7st. Gib. on liis young back will make
all the difference to his capacity for a long journey.
The Melbourne Gup starting price of all the older
horses is bound to be affected by a brilliant pertorni-
ance of Woorak in the Derby. Seeing that several
of them are now quoted at less than 15 to.l, or even
10 to 1, the punter who waits for the day is likely to
have the laugh of his brother who got on to Ins dead
bird a week earlier. *
Except for a dead-heat between two out-
siders in 1909, Hie results of the last 10 C aulfield
Cups have been discouraging to the public that wants
to pick winners at fairly long prices. The best-
backed horses have been the only ones worth backing.
Oddly enough, the winner of late years has invari-
ably been ’way back in the crowd at the beginning
of the race, which is not at all according to old tradi-
tions. This year all three of the warm favorites
would have finished among the placed four had not
Anna Carlovna’s leg given out. tier admirers protest
that, but for this accident, the beautiful mare must
have won, beating Uncle Sam and Rathlea again as
decisively as she boat them in the Caulfield Stakes
and Eclipse Stakes respectively.
The three placed horses at Caulfield have
got a fair show in the Melbourne Cup this year; also
Aurifer, and perhaps the inexplicable Moritus. if lie
will stand some good track work. Radnor, Sylvan-
more and Eltham are other Victorian horses specially
fancied, hut none of these look so very dangerous on
paper as Ulva’s Isle. Psyttyx, St. Spasa and Grey
Spear from Sydney side. All things considered, the
picks of the handicap are Psyttyx and Ulva’s Isle,
and the latter, being a proved stayer, is entitled to
he first favorite. Nevertheless the illicit market price
about him is ridiculously short.
* * * *
Jockey Killorn, who rode Anna Carlovna
in the Caulfield Cup, reckoned that the mare was
“only cantering” when she came round the last turn
in attendance on St. Carwyne and ahead of Uncle
Sam and Rathlea. He had no misgiving about her
being able to slip to the fore and stay there as she
had done when racing with the same horses in recent
events. Just then the mare’s doubtful foreleg gave
way, and Killorn’s blissful dream was over.
The South Aus. Derby has again been
won by a Victorian, Hickenbotham’s Fidolio winning
by the least possible margin from Hawker’s Auceps.
Dividend, £2 (which means level money). Hawker
took the two-year-old Morphettville Plate with Dud-
don. Dr. Bennett’s Soultberg, bought as a yearling
in Maoriland, and now six years old, won his first
race* in fact, he won two. the toialisator was jso .
surprised that it handed out dividends of £8 1/s.
and £34 95., with something useful left over for the
second in each instance. _
tt * * *
Moonee Valley Cup was another discour-
agement to punters from the other States, who had.
a bad time at Caulfield earlier in the month. The
foreigners, Owen Roe, Lochano and Greek l ire were
warmer favorites than Gladwyn and Fideho, the
principal local hopes, but these two had the finish to
themselves. Lochano, a couple of lengths behind the
second horse, might have got nearer but for being
bumped out of position half a mile from home. Glad-
wvn’s respectable performance gives her an outside
show in Melbourne Cup. Certainly not an inside
show. m .
Likely winners at Elomington. or \Y illiams-
town this' coming carnival session are Aurifer. Cagou,
Two, llooligal and Sir Prim. The youngster Two
opened a winning account at Moonee \ alley last
Saturday, and may be equal to Maribyrnong Plate
requirements. # *
Melbourne Cup meeting this year cannot he
discussed with any show of confidence, because it
will be the hardest going on record if the long-overdue
rain continues to hold off, or the worst quagmire that
ever was if the break-up happens, with utter dis-
regard to V.R.C. interests. Normal conditions are
not to be expected. So the prophet feels liis way
through a thicker haze of uncertainty than is usual.
To intensify reasonable .doubts a number of likely
Cup horses have recently been knocked about, or have
caught cold, gone sore, or positively lost the free use
of their legs. Radnor and Psyttyx went wrong last
week Sylvanmore appeared to be recovering from
his Caulfield wounds, but Eltham, Rathlea, and
even the favorite, Ulva’s Isle, were under the
sniff of suspicion, more or less. On the other nan ,
Uncle Sam was reported to be coming along . plei -
didlv, with a contented mind in a muscular bodj ,
and” Aurifer, Woorak, St. Carwvne, Oladwyn, Husb
Money and others had nothing said against then
chances. But a deluge of rain before the day might
lie as bad for Uncle Sam and Ins brother top-weights
as it would be good for Hush Money, Gladwyn, b.
Carwvne and some of the middle-weights. t orrn is
a matter that depends considerably upon the weathei,
which is just now in the mood to play pranks.
Assuming that the brilliant Woorak will win the
Derby on Saturday, weather or no, the colt .®”T
expected to make the Cup race a hare-and-houmU
contest. There will be no bunching ot the first
tiiglit immediately behind Posinatns a- there was 1
last vear’s inexplicable Cup procession. W ooiak, an
going well with him in his preparation, will pro-
bably rush to the front, and stay there as long as ho
cnii —to the finish, maybe, for the colt showed gilt
enough in the A.J.C. Derby, and he is stoutly bred
on the dam's side. One thinks of M oorak as the
onlv Cup candidate that seems certain to have its
name shrieked optimistically at one or more periods
of the race. All the same, the writer is afiaid to
tip Woorak to win outright, even on the presumption
that he will down Mountain King and others next
Saturday. Although bis defeat at Rand wick was not
clear proof of inability to stay, it suggested that lie
would not go two miles in the mud, anyhow. Ami
mud has to be taken into the calculation by a paper
published in a citv which absorbed six inches of rain
the other week. This choice falls upon a batch of
i>ees that fit and sound on the day, could be backed
to run well whatever the state of rbe ground, vm
Uncle Sam, Ulva’s Isle, Eltham, Sylyanmore, St
Carwvne and Hush Money. On the chance that
at least one of them will go wrong before the
dav, three are picked for places: —
SYLVANMORE,
ST. CARWVNE,
ELTHAM.
* * * *
The brilliant M.L. trotting mare Emme-
line will, after the Trotting Cup at Christchurch in
November, leave the track for the stud, bho has a
race record of 4min. 30scc. for two miles, and as she
is to be mated with Wildwood Jim., who has a record
of 4min. 33sec. for the same distance, the result is
expected to be a flying machine.
* * *
Canterbury (M.L.) Jockey Club has made
a good move by increasing the distance ot several
of the races at its Summer Meeting in November in
particular, the useless seven-furlong sprint has been
passed out. If there is any truth in the ancient gag
about horse-racing being an elaborate scheme toi the
improvement of horseflesh, no race under one mile
should he allowed. #
A unique disqualification case canto before
the M.L. Rugby Union the other day. A player had
been rejected for I 2 months by the \\uirarapa
Union because be declined to play in the Unions rep.
team after being picked, and refused to give a. satis-
factory excuse, lie appealed to the M.L. Union to
have ' the outlawry quashed on the grounds
that it was unreasonable, and the ruling body sanely
decided that any player has a perfect right to refuse
to play in any rep. team if be feels so inclined, and
advised the Wairarapa Union to get busy and give
the young man a coat of whitewash.
Provided that the war puls up its
shutters earlv next year, a Canadian lacrosse army
will swoop on Australia in the winter of 1915. The
Australian Association is financially in healthy, con-
dition, and the visit will lift the game to a still
higher level. The visit, however, hinges on the clip-
ping of the wings of the German Eagle in the coming
months.
* * * *
The English female Hockey Team played
the third and final test against the maidens of
Maoriland at Auckland. Result, a draw, with one
goal each. As each team had won a match this left
honors even. The tour was a success in every way.
The young women from England played 20 matches
in M.L., winning 22, losing three (Maoriland, Canter-
bury and Poverty Bay) ’and drawing one. #
Although only two centuries graced the
opening of the third round of Sydney First-Grade
THE OPPOSITION.
Now that the State Government is looking round
in all directions for new sources of revenue, how is
it that its eager eye has not yet rested on the
totalisator ? —Sydney TELEGRAPH.
IKEY MO: “It's no use your shoving, mum,
you ain't got no inoral support."
Cricket on Saturday the batsmen had an afternoon
out. Playing for North Sydney, R. V. Mmnett
smacked Balmain for 131 before he was stumped by
Radcliffe off Arnott. That was the top score of the
dav. Bardslev came next with 12C for GlcDe against
Middle Harbor. Other notables were C. G. Macart-
ney 96 for Gordon ; Goddard, 93 n. 0., for Redfern ;
the’ Rev. Waddv, 76 for Central Cumberland (other-
wise Parramatta), and brother E.L., 68 (these two
made more than half the total score of the team) ;
Kellewav, 66 for Glebe; Foster, 62 for Redfern; and
Carter 58 for AVaverley. The best club score was
that of Redfern, which without the aid of a century
»95?2faf|4| reply^ith
gdS^ed Balmain, wMch^dn’t
start Siiist' Sydney, being^oute^
l Jour wickete for 50
Thanks chiefly to Macartney’s 96, Gordon made -oa
Gus Christie hangs Marchand out to dry.
off University, hut failed to dislodge the tw° Um.
men who commenced the reply with 31. At ,
mattii Central Cumberland played a lazy-loqking
game against Petersham, and after hours vanished
for 251. Howling honors rested with J. A. Kanqall,
of Middle Harbor, who took eight Glebe wickets tor
100. Arnott, of Balmain, destroyed seven ot Noith
Sydney’s for 102; and after him came a slump to
Gregg, of University, who smashed tour Gordon hopes
for 00 ; and Waddington, of Petersham, who slesv font
of Central Cumberland’s for 00.
* * * '*
It will not lie possible to count it tor un-
righteousness to N.S.W. Cricket Association if the
Mu State fails to win glory m inter-htaie cricket
this year. In spite of a depleted purse the Association
has selected 37 players to practise at Sydney twice
a-week, and from this crowd the inter-State teams
will he chosen. The attendance at these practices is
alwavs up to the knocker, in striking contrast to the
weekly turn-out of the rifle club at Sydney Cricket
Ground. The riflemen started over 100 strong, but in
a few weeks faded to 38, witli the, promise ot still
more rapid decay. It is disheartening, and suggests
that the time is ripe for compulsory training in
musketry of all able-bodied males under 40 years
ot' age.
* * * *
Melbourne’s senior cricketers finished their
second round on Saturday in blazing heat and on
fiery wickets that bad tasted no rain for months save
what came through pipes. St. Kilda had improved
the bright hours of the previous week-end by piling
up a swift 345 against Richmond's anaemic 10/. Carl-
ton, on the other hand, had scratched up only IoG
tiie first day, and its opponents, M.C.C., had replied
with 53 without losing a stump. Proceeding with
the castigation the big club collected a mountain qt
403 for two wickets (Vaughan 248 n. 0.), and then in
mercy desisted. South gathered 302 runs for nine
wickets, and then made a vain effort to put Cote
through before the day closed. ’Cote made 177 tor
six wickets. Collingwood’s first innings realised only
205, which ’Varsity promised to easily beat, with
188 for two wickets down; but Time was on the
side of the ’Woodsmen, and the game was drawn.
East, ip) against ’Roy’s fast bowlers, lost five good
wickets for 26 ; but its alleged tail wagged the dog
to such purpose that 238 were on the board before
the last joint was cut off. As ’Roy could raise only
333 the tail won the day. North made 228 against
Essendon’s 142, Gent taking five of the latter s
wickets for 57. The only centuries of the round
were 103 n.o. by Ferguson, of Saints; and the 248 n.o.
of Vaughan.
* * * *
After pushing the affairs of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association for 20 years, secretary P. K.
Bowden has resigned. This is an extra-large loss just
at present, when the oilier summer sports bodies aie
hanging at the door threateningly. To its credit the
Cricket Association expressed its gratitude for past
services, by passing out a £75 cheque from the
shrunken cupboard.
Sydney Summer Baseball got three com-
petitions off on Saturday, when 24 clubs mounted
the plate in the first round —a decidedly healthy sign.
On the freshly-acquired Redfern Oval, three first-grade
games supplied a barracker's feast, and
a fair gathering- patronised the side-
show. Leichhardt v. Sydney was the
clash of the day, out of which (chiefly
the result of the excellent pitching by
State champion Harry Franks) the former
scrambled on top by four runs to three.
In the other matches, Petersham and ht.
George, played a drawn game, while
Waverley trampled down Grosvenor with
the same contentment as the ox treadeth
out the corn. Provided the Summer Base-
ball shindykit can get its hands on a
couple of other city enclosures, it will
take a biff of some tonnage to knock it
oft' its feet. # #
The Amateur Athletic Association having
last week, by 16 votes to nine, decided to cut the
painter, the Amateur Sporting federation ot N.b.w.
is in a parlous way. Dissatisfaction surrounds the
A.S.F., and the smaller bodies have been only wait-
ing for the ponderous A.A.A. to lead the way b.
carrying out the oft-made threat to secede. lie
original cause of the ire was the laxity of the
Federation in dealing with the Rugby Union, which
was allowed to play anybody it wished while the ban
of professionalism was thrown on all uho plaje<
under the wing of the Rugby League, The Lactos.se
Association and the British Association bodies ate
already out, and when the A.A.A., which is most of
the backbone of fhe show, slips out, the Fedeiation
will he a jelly. Tlie secession of the A.A. A. brought
about the resignation of its secretary and chairman,
hut their places were filled instanter. #
Only 15 faced the starter in the race for
the Dunlop (N.S.W.) Amateur Road Championship,
and owing to falls, punctures, dust in the thioat and
weariness in the legs, all but two dropped out The
course was an eight-mile one, and the distance (40
miles) meant it had to be traversed five times.
The first round saw four quitted, and 1. Tracey, m
a cloud of dust, led the others as an officer led a
cavalry charge in the olden days riding well ahead.
The end of the second lap saw \\ ylie m (he advance
duststorm, trailed by five. At 24 miles only
three remained in—Byron, Tracey and Porto.
Thev were choked with dust and grimed with
muddy streaks, but they rocked and swayed
along together till 28 miles had been coveied,
and then Porter made for the nearest leraon-
sonasli leaving Byron and Tracey and the ball of
dust to roll along together. A mile from the finish
Byron was done, and Tracey, lifting himself to one
last, supreme effort, dropped him and won in lhr.
54min. 16sec. # * *
The 43 cvclists who took part in the
Timaru-to-Christchurch (M.L.) road-race on Saturday
had a bitter time. The roads were in their best
condition, and Canterbury roads are , "ever bad ; but
ii was blowing a gale from the noi -west, and
squalls sometimes tipped the machines rig •
In ancient days, before trees were P^ d
breaks, this breeze used to blow away ci» J
topule houses over, and on one occasion t ioUed
church 20 yards, and turned he
upside-down. The winner of Satin els .'- ™^
turned up in F. A. Sutherland (2omm.), with u-
McKenzie second. The fastest time was
that wonderful pedaller, P. O Shea ohi. olini .
Sutherland’s time was 6hr. lOhnn. 42sec.
The Sydney summer breeze, the nor-
easter, made its first appearance on the haiboi on
Saturday, and brought joy to the hearts of the boat
men. The Flying Squadron blew oft two.lie C
and a final—chiefly to furnish a ''oliayio
the 11. C. Press boat (an absurd monmkei foi a
craft), which won the first heat by s<sec. hom
Sunny South and ran over Mona in 'be final by
The intermediate heat went to Scot, J V1 A t‘ ,
second and Enid third. Mona and Scot filled the
second and third places in the final. „
The Heavy Boat Championship of N. S.
Wales was foaled on Saturday when Ave scutes con-
tended for a 50-guinea trophy presc ted by Peiey
Marks, a £5 sweepstake, and a gold medal from an
enthusiast named Dessaix. The contest took place
on the glassy waters of Middle Harbor, with ancieii
Bill Beach as referee, George Towns as starter, and
j C Beer as judge. The men were got oft magnifi-
cently. but the race soon developed into a tijiaiigulai
duel between the two Pearces and big Ben thorough
good. These three were soon far in the lead, and
remained together to the mile mark, where Sul Peaice
showed signs of failing. Half a mile further on he
was distinctly behind Thoroughgood who had been
left in the rear by Arthur Pearce. In the last half-
mile Thoroughgood made his last . kl a ck - bnt Pearee
was readv, and won by a length and a halt, with bi
Pearce about tlie same distance behind the second.
Pearce was not a popular fancy, and alieady theie 1*
talk of a challenge. # *
Golfers settled a champion of chavnpions-
argument on Saturday. Eight club top-doggers began,
but only five finished, both morning and afternoon
rounds. The result of the day’s labor was a win for
j. |). Brown (Bonnie Boon), whose card was the
best on both rounds; and he won with 150 tor ~
holes, followed by J. Ferrier (Manly) 161, and W. C.
Sturrock, 162.
* * * *
Ilenley-on-the-Yarra attracted most of Mel-
bourne last Saturday, though the thermometer was
struggling up to 99 dog. and the wind was well mixed
wiih Brunswick brickbats. From an oarsmans point
of view llenley isn’t first-chop, and crews that
show good form there invariably get left when the
millv important racing eventuates. All the same, n
was a surprise to find the visiting Sydney men well
beaten Yarra boat-puller Kelly, who is no stylist,
gave Green (N.S.W.) a doing in tlie sculls, winning
with his great strength. Melbourne I arsity eight,
with Disher in the principal seat made Msy work ot
all opposition, including Leichhardt (N.S.W.), 1,1
the Grand Challenge Cup. ’Varsity easily took the
honors of the day. In the final of the Stewards Cup
Torrens R.C. four (S.A.) were again successful Ihe
hovs from St. Pat’s. Ballarat, heat another Ballarat
crow and Melbourne Grammar. VVesley and other big
public-school crews side-step the Ladies Challenge
Cup, so the event really doesn’t cut much ice in
school circles.
Anyone ever heard of a prominent Aus-
tralian fight promoter named Lawrence? New Aork
papers tell of tlie arrival in Gotham of such a one,
with a kennel of pugs containing Colin Bell, Bands-
man Rice and Terry Keller. Mr. Lawrence is_ repre-
sented as having had years of experience in the
management of pugs and the promotion of boxing in
Australia. Unless Hugh D. has changed his name
and fled hack to the garife which made him famous
there is some mistake.
* * * *
“Knock Out” Marchand’s first exhibition
in Sydney against Darcy was somewhat humorous, bid
liis meeting with Gus Christie was a howling* joke.
That he would have smashed Christie had he been able
to land any one of his wild haymakers goes without
question; but nobody but a cripple or an idiot would
wait for his tremendous wallops to arrive. On every
occasion that he made contact with Christie, the
latter, a by-no-means skilful side-stepper, was all but
out of reach, and Marchand merely grazed a
swinging door. Christie showed to better advantage
than he did in his initial fight, boxing and dndong
with far greater ease and some excellence, whereas
before he had been merely a slogger, he was now a
slogger and somewhat of a boxer. His blows sent
the Frenchman to the floor with a terrific crash—
once he was all but gone, but the gong came to the
rescue. However, it made no diffeience. _ ine
Frenchman’s heart was apparently beaten, and in the
third round he made a most wretched display, which
ended in his being knocked half out of the ring, sus
pended like a bag of (haft over the middle rope.
Then, apparently fearing a heavy Yankee charge m the
rear, lie toppled through the ropes and sprawled
down on the notebooks of the pressmen to a thunder
of derisive laughter. Having gone right outside the
ropes, referee Harald Baker immediately disqualified
him and, as far as Sydney is concerned, Marchand s
brilliant career was over Still, the „ r ® ’un? if the
him on the nor’-east frontier of Prance. But if the
scrap is over before he can reach the spot, writer
adjures him to see a circus-master-his tnture lies
in the sawdusted ring. There he should be a bill
bint success. His bitterest critics were the other
1-ench boxers present, who felt that their reputation
and drawing power were being seriously impaired by
this weird vagarian.


m
A PERSONAL COURSE
of PHYSICAL CULTURE
yon get enough exercise? Have you
unit healthy feeling, that clear eye, that
keen, calculating brain, of the physically fit?
1 not, you need a course of physical culture
y°n- My course includes
BOXi Mr (if desired), which is the most
fascinating and beneficial exercise yet
originated. In this department I give every
student my PERSONAL services, as I do
not employ any assistants.
The efficiency of my Bath and Massage
Department is my special pride, and in-
cludes Hydro-Electric. Tub and Shower
Baths, Electro A ibratory Hand Massage
and Manipulation.
BUSINESS and PROFESSIONAL MEN
whose duties do not permit of their taking
sufficient exercise will find my course most
beneficial, and are assured of the strictest
privacy and personal attention.
TERMS ON APPLICATION.
WRITE OR CALL TO=DAY.
Fritz Holland
Physical Culture and Boxing;, Hydro=
Electric Bath and Massage Institute,
B.M.A. BUILDINGS, 32 ELIZABETH STREET,
near HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE
CITY 1002.
Formerly Physical Director and Boxing
Instructor of the Spokane Amateur
Athletic Club, and Holland’s Gymnasia
and Baths, Spokane and San Francisco.
You Can
Personally
Make one of
Our Soldiers
Happy
;
Al the small cost of 4/- you can
make one of our soldiers happy
by sending him a tin of W. D.
and 11. O. Wills’ AUTUMN
GOLD Cigarettes, delivered free
of charge.
AUTUMN GOLD
CIGARETTES
arc absolutely the iinest Virginia
Cigarettes made, and are put up
in hermetically-sealed, vacuum
(ins, which keep them in perfect
order, especially during a sea
voyage.
I’lain or 22-carat Gold Tipped.
4/- per tin of 50, or 75/- per
1000.
Postage extra. 100: N.S.W. 6d.,
Inter-State Sd.
Write for a copy of my illus-
trated catalog. “A Discriminat-
ing Smoker’s Guide.”
a. n soLonoN,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
‘SHELL”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
BENZINE.
oi^o*
eles
SCO
HEND
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £63.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog' D.
Get Footwear Satisfaction.
Wear RIGNEY Shoes.
ItIGNEY SHOES cannot bo other than
satisfactory, being made in a style to suit
your fancy, a size to tit your foot, and to give
the utmost in wear and comfort.
The illustration shows a Choice Willow
Calf Derby Shoe, Fine-stitched Welts, Per-
forated Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
22/6 2 51-
In Black or Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
jfg
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,’
Street and 179 a Pitt Street VYnviv
And at City Buildings. Edward Street, BRISBANE,
317 George
AH Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
"parrot
BRAND ••
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
; ;
, V ’
':• ' V
■ V
hm
; •
1
m
%
mm mm
mm
ii iiiiii
Bosisto's •‘Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil,
tHe Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
£
m
1
WM
*V
m
i : M'
vS
m
m
m
m
vm
m
flag i
m
LSI
|i?Ji!
!:•:> !.i : '
SOTI
m
Lincoln-Stuart
Summer
Suit-Special,”
63-
The “Lincoln-Stuart - ’ Sunmiur Special
is a Suit in keeping with the times. It
is something right out of the ordinary—
it represents a standard of value that is,
to put it mildly, exceptional—it really
and truly stands
SUPREME AT THE PRICE.
The Tailoring will bo well up to the
Lincoln-Stuart high standard—which is
good enough to suit any man —but THE
feature of the offer is the
MAGNIFICENT RANGE OF
SUITINGS
it includes. Every conceivable variation
of the exclusive Stripe and neat Check
designs is represented in beautiful shades
of Grey and Brown, and there is not an
inch of Stuff' in the whole range that is
not of certified quality.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
A full range with Self-Measurement
I'orms, Tapes, etc., together with a copy
of our Catalog, will be sent you Post
Free by return.
The special Suitings are worth far more
to the wearer than the price we are ask-
ing, and we cannot extend the offer in-
definitely, so write at once. Remember
we make to a 6-Day Schedule. AVe pay
Freight, and we Guarantee Satisfaction.
Lincoln Stuart
& Co. Pty, Ltd.,
“Outfitters by Mail,”
244=254 F inders Street. Melbourne


summer's day
The comfortable way ona
io
ON
r
w
m
i A
■
' >.
Iffe-WE Electfi;c
.
m
ELECTRIC
FLATIRON
GE
jfg
Saves Steps, Time and Toil
Merely snap a switch— and you can snap your fingers at red-hot
stoves and all the other wearisome trials of ironing day. And not on y
is the work easier and quicker, but the ironing is better because
“EVEN HEAT”
NoSpottoo Ho!
with the G-E Electric Iron you get “ Even Heat.”
At the point, in the middle, around the edge, at the
] iee l wherever the iron touches the goods you get the
same even, uniform heat.
Don’t you see how this “Even Heat” makes better,
quicker ironing? Don’t you see how by saving time, Even
Heat” also saves electricity? Don’t you see how Even
Heat” —no spot too hot—saves wear and tear on the line .
The Cost for an Average Family Ironing is only 3 pence
for electricity— when you use the G-E iron. Waste ot heat is pre-
vented by air spaces which hold the heat down in the ironing sui acc
where you want a steady, uniform, even heat.
Be sure and get a "GENERAL ELECTRIC” iron with the big
G-E trademark on the guarantee tag.
ITic Cuarannn a/ExsUrm*
on Goods Electrical
Hakes Coolness a Certainty.
What other comfort can you have for such a trivial cost that will
mean so much 111 ; lleat of sweltering (lays or sultry summer
mghts you need Inei™ turn the switch of , M Electric Fan and com-
mand breezes to blow—fast or slow, as you please
Twenty years of laboratory study and factory application are rep e
seated in the smooth-running, noiseless mechanism »t tin* pmiect electric
fan. It is the most popular and widely sold electric fan m
Its Oscillating Motion
By turning from side to side, all the air within its radius is silently
““ of this fan its perfect integrity of
materials and parts-the beautiful balance of
prevents vibration and likewise avoids noise—all assure a Uietime
°i thig f an —with all its many improvements
—look always for the G-E trademark m the centre; but insist o
dlrirnTfinish to harmonise with surroundings may be
ordered.
i
A
0
Melbourne
©Little Collins Sts
Queen
Cor.
dnc
S
Street
ZIT Clarence
PFRTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A), Ltd Hay Street.
BRLSRANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.
Edward Street.
Agents—
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co
V Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
Street.
. Ltd.,
Ams No. 98AT.
Double Seamer.
r
The Seal
of Safety.
Ams Automatic
Double Seamers.
The Trade Standard.
Progressive Seamers for
Progressive Canners.
Make Tour Cans with Ams Machinery
We furnish machines for mak-
ing tin cans of every descrip-
tion, for Sardines, Peas, Fruit,
all Food Products, Spices, leas.
Coffee, Tobacco, Paint and Oil
Cans.
These machines are automatic
Feed, Can Straightener and Plunger,.and ma - J complete lubricating
able Double Seamer. They are and will do the
"vort m cut a outTor thenf'The can stands still during the seaming operation
and bov or girl can run these double seamers.
line. It is not a side issue. .
Wp build complete can-making equipment .
t ° u “g about your intentions. _ We are m
business to answer questions. Experiment if you
like but come to Ams for standard.
Send us a sample of wbat you want to make.
ESTIMATES IN EVERY
MAX AMS MACHINE COMPANY,
MOUNT VERNON, N.Y., U.S.A.
CHARLES M. AMS, President.
Address us direct or through any EXPORT
Adores.. rrvvfMTSSTON HOUSE.
aw
eaw
HIS MASTER’S VOICE
AND THE WAR!
HitMaltttlUxcc
I®
The last mails bring us the message from head-
quarters in England— 1 Business as usual,
greater tribute can be paid to the splendid organisa-
tion of “His Master’s Voice” factories, for the war
had laid a heavy toll upon the staff, and . many
notable “His Master’s Voice” artists are at the
moment in the trenches and tossing about in the
North Sea. Furthermore
“His Master’s Voice”
Gramophones
are being used to cheer the wounded in the Hospitals.
Whenever you buy and use “His Master’s \ oiee
Gramophones and Records you will know that you
are supporting British industry.
The realisation has come home to all of us that, to
be truly patriotic, we must, henceforward, buy British
goods.
There are none more truly British than “His Master s
Voice” productions —nor are any other instruments
and records as GOOD.
Instruments from £5/12/6 to £6O
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street- SYDNEY.
THE WATCH DOGS


V
>
/
c
L
A
VL
V,
a
z
w
£
&
Zl
Cycling
brings Health
and Pleasure
WHEN the day’s work is over there
is nothing to equal the rejuvenating
effect of a cycle ride in the pure
country air. It is the finest tonic you can
have for clearing away the mental cobwebs,
and provides just the right amount of gentle
exercise under ideal conditions. There are
any number of beauty spots in your locality
you can reach easily and quickly on a
bicycle, and many a jolly week-end can be spent cycling, with
congenial company, exploring hitherto unknown ground. Unless
you make cycling your pastime you are missing one of the good
things of life. So make up your mind to get a bicycle now and
insist that it is built of GENUINE
>
FITTINGS
You will find it truest economy, for not only will you enjoy greater comfort and security with three or four
times the length of service that a cheap “pattern” machine will give you, but your bicycle will always have
a good selling value, as against the “ scrap price that the second-hand “ pattern ” machine usually fetches.
B.S.A. Fittings are manufactured throughout in the great B.S.A. Factories with the well-known B.S.A.
standard quality, material and workmanship. They can therefore be relied on to give the same satisfactory
service which has made B.S.A. productions world-famous. Every B.S.A. part is tested and gauged to
one-thousandth part of an inch, and B.S.A. Fittings are
GUARANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained of all Australian Agents without delay. Don’t be put off
with any cheap “pattern” substitutes, but look for the B.S.A. Trade Marks on EVERY PART.
They are your guarantee.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
Y. RENNIE (Rep ß e s e A hl co. Ltd.), Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A.
Look for this Mark
on every part when
you buy a Bicycle.


Flavelle, Roberts 8
Sankey, Ltd.,
JEWELLERS, Etc.,
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Lismore,
Stocktaking
Sale
6/- in the £1 Reduction.
Christmas Presents should he pur-
chased now, while a good choice can
be had, plus the advantage of Sale
Reduction.
SA«
“i*
mm
Handsome, Plain, Solid Silver Hair
Brush, very best bristles. Usually £2/2/-
Sale price £l/9/6.
A Dainty, Solid Silver Brush and
Comb, in Case, quite plain. Very heavily
mounted and everlasting, £2/12/0. o\ V
£l/16/9.
Pair Plain, Solid Silver Hair Brushes
and Comb, in Case. This is a most beauti-
ful outfit. £4/10/- Now £3/3/-
Large Case, containing Solid Silver Hair
Brush, Mirror and Comb, new design-
line engraving. £l4. Now £9/16/-
TIIE FINEST THING PROCURABLE IN THIS
LINE.
jfg
Strong, Solid Silver Hair Brush, dainty
floral border, £l/15/-.' Now £l/4/6.
Scroll Design Sterling Silver Brush,
15/- Now 10/6.
Cupid Pattern Sterling Silver, 17/6.
Now 12/3.
Solid Silver Hair Brush, Mirror and
Comb, plain, in Case, £6- Now £4/4/-
Toilet Cases in every pattern, in Solid Siher,
from £3 to £2O, and all subject to
reduction.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence, .
Melbourne, ,17th October, 1
Appointment of Temporary Crew foi
Dredger.
* IMPLICATIONS are invited fr °“ p t
A. sons qualified for appointment to tlie
undermentioned temporary P 0 * I^l^xr ava l
Ducket Dredger, for duty at Flmdexs
Base, Victoria : .
Position. Bate of pay per month
( consolidated).
Master • • • • g-4
Ist Mate •• ••
2nd Engineer ■ ■ ±1 ' s ’ .
Applicants must be of Australian birto
permanently domiciled in Australia ana
not more than 50 years of age.
Full particulars are published m u
Commonwealth Gazette of litli Octobei,
3914. and may be obtained on application t
the Naval Secretary, Navy Ofhce; Meibmii i -
or from the District Naval Officer, Nava l
Staff Office, Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaiuc,
Fremantle and Hobart. •
Applications, accompanied by copies o
certificates and testimonials, must be sen-
direct to the Naval Secretary, Navy OJ ,
Melbourne, so as to reach him not later tnan
9th November, 1914.
S. A. PETIIEBBIDGE.
Spcretar.V.
Tenders.
nil IE SYDNEY AND SEE IKB AN
X HYDRAULIC POWER COMPANY.
LIMITED.
Head Office: Mutual Life of New York
Building. 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
To Make Way For New Boilers.
Tenders are invited for the purchase of
five (5) Lancashire Boilers, 25ft. x at.
Shells, x 2ft. lOin. Flues, complete witn
Safety Valves, Feed Valves, Main Stop
Valve, Water Gauges. Blow down etc., now
in*use, and which may be seen and inspected
at the Company’s Pumping Station, Her
Street, Darling Harbor. Boilers to he ie-
moved by successful tenderer at Ins own cost,
after dismantling by the Company.
Tenders to he addressed to the Managed
at the above address, where further parti-
culars may be obtained. The highest or any
Tender not necessarily accepted.
By order of the Board,
A. MAYNE HERON,
Manager and Secretary.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Dcßeszke
'sr&rbkx-rajj 'Qg*t rffcs
Friend- PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, “and makes the hair grow thick and
curlv. Kills lice on live stock.
Svilnev Agents: Talbots. 206 George Street,
and' Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Comb. Ob. extra.
THE LADY OF FASHION
will be charmed and delighted
with the Refined Beauty of the
MOSOIEL
TWIN-COLOR
MOTOR RU Q
Made in colorings to match
the cars. Unique in appear-
ance and cosy warmth.
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
[2
THE. GREAT REMEDY.
W GOUT
(a RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Tiie severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR'S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable,
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug- Stores
and 220 Strand. London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. (id. ,
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd..
F. H. Faulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
<
%
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
«AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“Angling Department,”
ALCOCK & PIERCE.
3 18 little Cillins St. Melbourne
Skelton, Frostick & Co., Ltd. (Maori-
land) :
Dividends. „
s'- To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Old. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1910.. —* ’ • _
1911. . 4031 f. i>.c.= 281 6p.c.= 2743 1607 2390
1912.. 1056 6., .. S4B 7 „ „ 321/ 2086
1913.. 4698 6,, ~ 1086 6,, ~ 3043 069 -900
1914' . 550 6,. „ 1091 Nil 2414
This co. is in the boot-manufacturing busi-
ness. with headquarters at Christchurch.
Now, Christchurch is the cheapest city to
live in in Maorilaud. and labor, generally
speaking, is cheaper there than in any other
centre. Further. Christchurch is the
capital of the stock-raising province of Can-
terbury ; hence the bootmaker s raw
material ought to be cheaper there than in
most places. Yet. notwithstanding these
two advantages, this old-established co.
has very rarely paid more than a (i p.c. div.,
and sometimes has paid nothing at all; and
notwithstanding this moderation the un-
divided profits are poor. Something is
wrong. What is it —the management of this
business or the management of the country .
The Skelton-Frostick firm was established
in ISN'T and after the partnership had run
its Id-year course the business was turned
over to a private co. consisting of the old
partners. The capital at that time was in
0452 £5 shares = £52.200, of which i(>000
was goodwill. In TOO- old senior-partnci
Skelton died, and his shares were divided;
otherwise things went, on without change
till 1007. the co. meantime paying a steady
O.V p.c. div. Tn that year an amalgamation
was made with Bowron Bros. & Co., Ltd.;
but fortunately the Skelton-Frostick part
was kept going as a separate trading con-
cern. At the time of the amalgamation
Skelton-Frostick’s reserves were £12.T00.
Out of this amount goodwill was written
off; other assets were re-appraised, and the
whole outfit was valued at £40.781. and
capital to that amount was issued in the
new co. The amalgamation was not the
expected success, and in 1010 or there-
abouts dismemberment was agreed to. So
Skelton. Frostick & Co.. Ltd., went back
to its old independent position. Bowron
Bros. & Co.. Ltd., had taken £20.000 worth
of original shares. It: is said to be mostly
these that are in the hands of the public.
When the co. got back to its original in-
dependence the paid ordinary capital was
£45,725, and there were liabilities to a
larger amount than that. A G p.c. cumu-
lative pref. issue of £25,000 was authorised
in order to reduce the debts. Money hasn't
been cheap enough in Maorilaud during the
past three years to make this issue a com-
plete success, and only £lB,lBO has been so
far raised. Meanwhile the G 0,725 issued
ordinaries have been fully paid up to £l.
The result of this calling-up of capital is a
substantial reduction of the liabilities,
which nevertheless still total_
Against that there are stocks £57.27(5 hook
debts £26,368, freeholds £25,653, and plant
and sundries £13,107. Stock and cash alone
are equal to the liabilities and the pref.
capital combined. The security for these
creditors is, therefore, as good as anybody
could wish. Still, as shown just now, not
enough profit was made in 1913-14 to pay
even the pref. dividend. There no doubt
was a certain amount of blight in Maori-
land’s orchard last year. There was a
waterside strike, which hung trade up for
a few weeks, and it is said that prices of
raw material in this trade moved up faster
than manufacturers’ prices could travel.
This looks as though imported goods could
be sold too cheap : in other words, the duty
isn’t high enough. This theory is backed
up by the comparatively poor profit shown
by tlie co. for years past: 6 p.c. isn’t a good
enough return for ordinary shares consider-
ing the risks of ordinary capital. _ The ques-
tion is: Is the experience of this co. fairly
representative of the trade in Maoriland?
If it isn’t, then something is most likely
wrong with the management. If it is, then
something is wrong with the tariff.
* * * *:
Cyanide has gone up 33 p.c. for small
lots at Kalgoorlie, and consumers ask why.
The seller says .increased freights and insur-
ance ; but as there was several months’
supply on hand before the war started, and
as this supply was not affected by any in-
creases in carriage and cover, the excuse is
sniffed at. The simple truth is we rely very
largely on Germany for the goods; and as
the available supply is diminishing while
the demand stays where it was, a higher
price is asked. This is the ABC of busi-
ness. Nevertheless the Commission appointed
by the Labor Government to fix prices of
necessary commodities is being urged to turn
its attention to the matter.
There are, by the. way. traders in the
West who have stocks of things which they
would be very glad to get rid of at less than
cost, the demand having evaporated. If
the State is going to fix the price to pre-
vent the trader making a profit when the
supply falls off. it might at least do a fair
thing and fix the price so that he shall not
make a loss when the demand falls off. The
trader may be —often is—a shark. But
that is no reason why the State should be
a spieler. If a carpenter goes to a town
expecting to get only 12s. a day. lie will
nevertheless demand 15s. if a. sudden big
demand for carpenters sets in. And lie
should get it. of course. This paper isn't
going to join in a cry which may some day
be turned against the carpenter.
* * * *
The W.A. leases optioned by Hans Irvine
and others at the Pinnacles are reported to
be opening up well Oroya-Black Range
has taken a two-months’ working option on
Olsen’s block at Two-mile Patch, near
Black Range. The lode is stated to be
10ft. wide, and the option-holder intends to
break out 1000 tons as a test parcel
Corinthian North is installing a slimes’
filter, a British ball mill, and a couple of
Edwards roasters Fremantle Trading
Co. lias arranged to get rid of lead in Lou-
don and has resumed mining at Northamp-
ton.
Business, Robbery, etc,
The sea still hath its pearls, and the
Australian still tisheth them up—when
Luck’s in. The undependable spook was at
home to pearler A. G. Ilussell. a Nor'AN ast-
ern fisher, the other day. and passed him
up a 100-grain beauty, perfectly round, and
worth £BOOO if anybody will pay that much
f or it. #
The stamp-liunter has another quarry.
When the German flag fluttered down in
Samoa the other day and the Union Jack
went up. Colonel Logan, the commander of
the Maoriland force, collared the post office
and all the German stamps it contained.
Most of the latter were of the “ten pfennig
class, and these Logan handed to a local
printer with instructions to impress in heavy
black letters across the face, “G.R.1.,” ,and
the new denomination —“Id.” or “id., as
the case might be. These will pass as
British until a new Samoan stamp appears;
and collectors are scrambling for them while
the stock lasts.
* * * *
Another important point concerning land
agents has been cleared up in the N. S.
Wales Supreme Court. When the Com-
monwealth Bank was looking for a home in
Sydney, one of the army of agents smiled
at a site in Pitt-street, opposite the G.l
and promised the owner to find a buyer.
The owner agreeing to sell for £lOO,OOO, the
agent opened negotiations with the Bank.
That institution was tilled with admiration
for the site, and leaping over the agent,
seized it under the Land Acquisition Act.
The value was. later, fixed at £79,906, and
the agent claimed commission on the smaller
amount. In the ensuing legal wrangle
Justice Ferguson would not even allow the
matter to reach the jury. He passed down
the judgment that the agent’s contract was
to find a buyer at £lOO.OOO, and he
hadn’t done it. This decision will come as
a cold shower in winter to the corps of
agents in Sydney, whose idea has been tlial.
if they once introduced buyer and seller,
they were entitled to commission on what-
ever cash changed hands.
* * * *
“Hamer”: It remained for Percy Innes,
of Dubbo (N.S.W.), to supply the most
comprehensive blast against the recent regu-
lation of the price of wheat. He declared
that the Government’s action had convinced
him of the fact, “driven home at last beyond
all doubt, that under present rule British
justice is dead in this beautiful State.” But
even P. Innes did not go as far as Mario
Angelessi when his wine license was taken
from him. He declared that this act of
tyrannv was a sign that the end of the world,
foretold in the Scriptures, was at hand, and
that Sydney, with all its inhabitants, would
be the first to be wiped out. As an after-
thought, Mario added that he would continue
to sell fruit and lollies at the old address.
It looks now as though the Maffra (Vic.)
beet-sugar business has turned the corner.
Watt thought of closing up the State mill,
but lie finally hedged a bit, and let the plant
have another life on the sensible condition
that the farmers guaranteed to plant 1000
acres of beet a season. They have done so
thus far, and, according to the Director of
Agriculture, the product is selling locally at the
C.S.R. Co.’s ruling rates—£22 10s. at present
—and Sale, Bairnsdale, Warragul and East-
ern Gippsland would take more if they could
get it. The factory supplies lots of from
half a ton to 10 tons, so. the up-country
Victorian grocers save considerable freight;
and the greedy C.S.R. gets a badly-needed
competitor.
* * * *
“G.D.” : You can insure against anything
at Lloyd’s, in London, and gamble about
anything, from birth to sudden death. You
can cover yourself against loss through
strikes, suffragettes, civil war, lightning and
meteorites; and you can “have a bit” on
the life of the King or Prime Minister or
on the postponement of a street procession.
You can insure against a change of Govern-
ment or the occurrence of twins. Until
lately a popular gamble was to insure
against rain when going on holiday. A
half-crown premium brings you £2 if more
than two wet days occur in your holiday week ;
for £l, of course, you would get £l6. A
wet day means 25 points, or a quarter of
an inch of rain, no matter when it falls, day
or night. That, as I said, was the latest
gamble until lately. The very latest is
against German bombs. William having
sooled Count Zeppelin on to the job <>f giv-
ing London the jumps. Lloyds’ underwriters
have got to work, and are insuring property
and person against damage. The property
risk varies; but for eighteenpence you can
assure that your widow gets £lOO if you
have the bad luck to stop one of the Ger-
man’s newest things in butcher’s small-
goods.
THE POET S TRIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hungry bard had day by day
Reduced his scanty store,
And sat at last by gloom obsessed;
A sinsrle onion he possessed
Just that and nothing more!
But soon an inspiration came.
About him on the floor
Lay sonnets, which had been declined
By editors to beauty blind,
Ballades and odes galore.
With fev'rish haste the poet stooped
And gathered up the lot :
The “Pagan Chant,” the “Ode to Lust,
And others, which he quickly thrust
Into a battered pot.
His hoarded onion followed next;
Then,, with a tranquil mind,
He set about a fire to light,
And having cooked, the famished wight
On tripe and onions dined!
The wolf that howled without his door
The bard thus brought to heel.
No hunger has he known since then,
For now he simply takes his pen
And writes himself a meal!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


’WW ' 1 ; 3£!58
> *£&«£
Is®
»
.
■ '
'
m*
H.M.A.S. Australia, cleared for action, just before her departure from Sydney Harbor, 4th August, 1914
Buy Pianos made by Your
Compatriots Only.
It’s Treason to do Business with the
Enemies of the Ring', but Don’t Buy
Other Foreig'n Goods.
Your Money is Needed in the Empire.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a=136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


Copper Jardiniere, antique finish, beautifully
hammered and embossed. Height. 9 inches., Width,
tl inches. 25 / -
SB
M
Fine Art Vase in Solid Brass, "Old
Gold” finish, hand finished and embossed.
Height, 15J inches. 50/-
Copperware!
Beautiful —Artistic —Exclusive.
The beauty of
Copperware is
Unsurpassed. We
have thousands
of Selections.
8-Hour Art
Union Tickets
Is. each.
Post Free Anywhere.
I
'‘APs^jZ
mm
Our Designs are
unique and won-
derfully hand-
some, moderately
priced too.
8-Hour Art
Union Tickets
Is. each.
Post Free Anywhere.
Fruit Dish, polished antique finish, handsomely-
embossed design, with blue enamel reliefs. Height,
Hi inches, 35/-
New Art Copper Photo Frame,
mounted on real oak, richly embossed, real
copper oxidised finish, 4/6.
Embossed Floral Design,
Solid Silver Cabinet Photo
Frame, 12/6.
Art Jardiniere, in Polished Brass, hand
embossed, fluted. Height, 8J inches. Width, 9i
inches. 20/-
' " 's\
Fine Art Vase, in Solid Brass, antique
bronze finish, hand embossed. Height, 15 inches.
807-817 GEORGE
STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
Giving
are
A Partial List of Sample Values—
There are over 40 in all.
Lot No. SI 10. —Bh.p. Kuston
ancl Proctor Portable Steam En-
gine. quite recently “rebuilt” and 801 b.
working pressure granted by Government In-
spec-tor. Worth every penny of .-0 200, but if
you’re quick it's yours for £129.
Lot No. 0827.—20h.p. “1.H.C.”
Mogul Gaso-Kero Tractor. I '' ul, . v
equipped, ready to run with the following
accessories:—lloscli Magneto, Friction Clutch
Pulley, Kerosene Burning Attachment, Fuel
and Cooling Tanks, and. all necessary connec-
tions therefor, lias done very little work
and is in splendid condition —-Just rebuilt and
fitted with Bosch Rotary Magneto. This engine
will run on a full load, using petrolite low-
grade kerosene for less than half what it
usually costs using some of the higher-grade
fuels, such as benzine, naphtha, etc. A Better
Bargain we’ve never known of. Worth every
“pound note” of £425, but as we must have
warehouse room it’s offered now at £33r».
Lot No. 0713. —Glup. Crossley
Horizontal Stationary Oil Engine.
The former owner of this engine, having work
for a larger size of the portable type, replaced
it with a 15h.p. “1.H.C.” Completely equipped
ready to run, and worth fully £05 —it must
be moved, and now goes for £42.
Lot No. Sill. —13h.p. Buftalo
Single Cylinder Traction Steam
Engine. Fitted with grates suitable for
burning either wood or coal, and equipped
with 30 feet suction hose and awning. Re-
placed by its former owner with a 451i.p.
“1.H.C.,” and since coming back to us has
been overhauled and is now all ready for
work. A Tremendous Bargain—fully £225
worth of Tractive Power for £l3B.
Lot No. 0833.—Gh.p. Newton
Stationary Kerosene Engine.
Equipped ready to run, with Lamp, Pulley,
Fuel and Cooling Tanks and all necessary con-
nections therefor. Has been thoroughly over-
hauled and “rebuilt,” and now is in good
order throughout.. Worth £-80, yours for £53.
Lot No. 071G.—4h.p. “1.H.C.”
Hopper Cooled Gasoline Hori-
zontal Portable Engine, is equipped
with all latest fittings, including Friction
Clutch Pulley and Magneto. Has had only
one month’s demonstrative use, and is natur-
al! v almost, equal to new. If you don’t leave
it too long you’ve a chance of securing this
£7O worth for £s4 —but you must be quick.
Lot No. 5504. —141i.p. Buffalo
Double Cylinder Traction Steam
Engine. Fitted with Grates suitable for
hurtling either wood or coal, and equipped
with SOft. Suction Hose, Steel Main Gear,
Awning, 100-gallon Tank and Winding Drum.
This plant has done less than two years’ work,
and, after being recently “rebuilt,” was tested
by Government Inspector, who granted 1201 b.
as a safe working pressure. If you re after
Tractive Power, and you fail to_ investigate
this engine, you’re passing a positive bargain.
Worth every “coin” of £440, but the first
order will be written at £365.
And about 40 more, all kinds and
sizes, at equally low prices.
jfg
m
B
07
In
Solid
Value
for
every
(and in some cases as much as 30/-)
I9OS.
that is paid to us
by buyers of
Secondhand
Engines at the
extremely Io w
prices and easy
terms we are now
offering.
HEY must move, and demand is slack—we have made our profit on the
* new Engines disposed of in the deals in which the Secondhand
Engines were taken.—The Secondhand Engines are in our way—we must
force them out by pricing them in such a manner that buyers can’t resist
the temptation.
It is very important that you remember that you only have to pay one=quarter
down—the balance can be spread until February Ist, 1917. Bar the first the
Engine should earn its own payments before they fall due.
If you have any use for an Engine you can’t afford to miss this chance
_ it’s a really genuine opportunity to get an Engine at considerably less than
it’s honestly worth.
Write now for complete list of bargains, and tell us just what you want.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
200 Roma Street, Brisbane.
18=20 North Terrace, Adelaide.
37 Broadway, Sydney.
361=365 Murray Street, Perth.
545=557 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
75 York Street, Launceston.


&
Ss>
Weatherproof
TULLE
Ordinary Tulle—when exposed to
moist, damp air or rain—quickly loses the
distinctive charm of the fabric.
Don t buy ordinary 1 ulle when ycu can get
Dynamo” Rainproof Tulle. If your Hat
is trimmed with “Dynamo ” you know before-
h nd tliat weather can’t mar its beauty.
Dynamo Tulle is proof against climate
and weather. The hat you him with it can be
worn fearlessly anywhere— e very where, Damp
atmosphere and rain won’t worry you because
D/namo ” is waterproof.
<1 The economy of ‘ ‘ Dynamo ’ ’ is self-apparent
months after ordinary Tulle
has become limp and Tfeles it
still looks the same as when
purchased. Frequent renewals
are entirely dispensed with.
&uo #5
Dynamo :
RAfNPROOF Tulle
3 6 ins. wide. In Black, White
and all fashionable shades.
9d., 10Jd., 1/-, 1/3 and 1/6
per yard upwa. ds.
Tulk ll All fh St , M l lli " ers us ' Dynamo ” Rain; roof
lulle. All the best Stores sell it by the yard But
of the e r a °rd Bet T he name > s on the end
d f ir,?h d °'\ whlcl > , the Tulle is wound. If any
dir lculty in obt lining locally, send direct to address
below statin; colour, quanti y and price per yard and
we will see that you are imm diately supplied.
‘‘DYNAMO” EKQUIRY DEPT.,
Carlton House, York Street, Sydney.
V
Washable
Tubular
Ties
Seamless
Poplin
Ties
Ask for Cash’s
GIFT OF £2OOO
er thls da ? e we win -make a gift
< ?. r -”10 to any recognised charitable institu-
can , be rjroved that our £3 3s. Sets
or leetli with spurred stense palates, super-
vised personahy by W. E. THOMAS, are
twl • nl ' , , sf natural looking and best fitting
F 'rFTmria^ 0r d j As a guarantee of W.
sum J !!f ro(Vil| S - g °fi d f rJ th he has l )la ced the
sum of £-000 in the Commonwealth Bank,
Melbourne, where anyone is at liberty to
inquire and verify.
88 ELIZABETH ST. (opp. Equitable Bldg-.), MELBOURNE-
Send to-day
2,6
SHARPS
AMIGO
forPILES
WHY SUFFER?
GET RELIEF.
“SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
\n -unfailing- remedy
[ for Itching, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES.
IT furfs GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
A Secret that Never Fails to
Grow Hair.”
TOILET TALKS.
A SfS S K SlN ?,’f ck «f l»te will mar
there is Zlll beautlfal face, and after all
poverished to have poor or in >-
are obferlS / a fe fi w common-sense rules
be freshlv 1 - rSt °l all ’ hair tonics must
results L“ J e , in to obtain the best
ton ov o ana thousands of women, and men,
wTth mo Tl^ f kins U]> their ™n lotions
tLv oi S . fa - Ct °r y results ‘ For this
ounce of kLi! ain the chemist’s one
Jiini • b ? ra ? lura and mix this
simolo T lnt bay rum ’ Quite a
simple formula, and according to
tii aC< r£- ts remarkably effec-
,"T?v -this simple, home-made
rlrpff quickly removes all dan-
urutl, and creates a growth of
n ew, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman.
Une word in conclusion. Do
not experiment with your hair,
long suffering though it may be.
Mature will surely revolt if you
continue to subject the hair and
scalp to all kinds of fanci-
ful treatments. Employ a tonic
by all means if such is required,
other f°und a satisfactory one, use no
7VJ OW about shampoos. Is it reasonable
t 0 expect that one particular make will
suit everybody ’ Certainly not. Some folks
have dry and brittle hair, others have tresses
which are excessively greasy. Each requires
a, difierent grade of shampoo, if one is to
obtain the best results. The writer’s notice
wa.s recently brought to a substance called
stall ax, which can be obtained from most
jfg
chemists. It consists of small granules,
which, when mixed with a cup of hot water,
make the most charming mixture imaginable
tor shampooing the hair. According to the
quantity used; so the strength is graduated to
suit all conditions. There is one drawback
however, and that is stallax can unly be
obtained in ilb. tins, which cost, about
haif-a-erown, but as this quantity is suffi-
cient to make 25 to 30 shampoos it is
really very economical in the
end. It leaves the hair a little
too wavy and fluffy for some
tastes, but this can always be
avoided by rubbing a little olive
oil on the scalp previous to
its application.
FEW remarks on face
creams may not be out of
place, and, at the risk of being
put down as a little old-fash-
ioned, my advice on this subject
is to leave well alone. Uo not clog
the pores with greasy concoctions
which not only prevent the skin
from peiforming its proper func-
tions, but usually result in ei-
( oui aging a growth of hair on the fact, and
you know very well what that means—'disfig-
urement for the rest of your natural days. If
it is necessary to use an emollient at all, get
some mercolised wax from your chemist and
apply in the usual way. This remarkable'
substance seems to absorb the worn and
weatherbeaten outer cuticle, and in a few days’
time the new, healthy skin undernealh peeps
forth in all its brilliance, and is, of course
quite free from imperfection or blemish. 13
A
muniiiiuiiTnmg
TOOTH paste
BEING MADE IN AUSTRALIA, there has been
NO ADVANCE IN PRICES.
Obtainable All Chemists.
Trial lube, with useful book and
interesting test, free for three
penny stamps on application to
THE MANUFACTURER-
G. ARNOLD (Department A), 6 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY
(Wholesale Onij).
..V,
SSB*
mLtETfr
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
M E .N! You get what you pay.
in the Gillette Safety Razor-
ana that is shaving service.
Many a man would refuse twenty
pounds for his Gillette if he could no
get another. And he wouldn’t pa]
tuppence” for a razor that fel
short of his requirements.
The Gillette is the only razor that has a positive adi'ust-
Sfwt~<s? r 1 tor * ou £b be aid or for a sensitive skin.
Sets ’ . one Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
£ OR AUSTRALASIA;
■ GILLSXTB SAFETY KA?6’ R L i d ß’
ONINOHGN ONIddObiS ON
EJIJEJI lUJ
I
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except 0 f a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
same and address must appeal on MSS. No
lability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedand no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany .
Q.R., Tiki, and 19 others: Once more we
are getting rather tired of the correspondent who is
too caieless to find out the proper postage for his
letter; the last five dropped on this table cost Is. 7d.
m fines, etc., and the next five .are going to be shot
back to the G.P.O C.A.P.: No, the picture of
the small child and the immense bed will not “find
a place in your valuable journal.” The language you
ascribe to the small child is. too dreadful
Mackay: The sugar trade is an erratic beast. In
19H the oversea imports Were £404,474, mostly
11 0111 Fiji, through Sydney; in 1912, £1,189 763
Exports rarely exceed £120,000, and practically all
o it is through Sydney, and is merely foreign-grown
sugar refined in the Commonwealth. Besides Fiji
Java is the only exporter of sugar to Australia that
“r"^ an F-: “ The Intro ” appeared in B.
Jo/onh a ' ld ‘‘ The Girl Wot the Blokes” B.
-S/ 8 / 1 ,!... .Pibroch: The World, Macelonell House,
Pitt-srreet, Sydney Perthite: W. H. Traill wasn’t
one oi the proprietors of The Bulletin in 1888 He
retired in 1886.... D. Rye: Write to the Depart-
ment Melbourne. .. .A.T.S.: Thanks. . . .John Scouller:
Can t say anything till we’ve seen it Tubbul:
You re in too much of a hurry. Germany isn’t
g-oirg to be rounded up and branded as easily as
ia .... Mid-chan: 1 hanks, but no room for
contributed show-notices.. . .E.Q.: Thanks but
don’t care to reprint. .. .Edward F.: A feeble
scratching at the locked door of literature. ... U 9 :
eet poem just about fails to pour itself in...
Bill B. : Sorry, Bill, but you can’t work your moon-
rise here.... Bellerive: It’s the right poem for the
beginning of the snake season:—
IN THE COILS OF A REPTILE.
Lines on a pathetic Incident Which occurred at
Swagman & ° Utl Gl PPsland, ..During my Career as a
I rom a -shallow creek's marshes
A huge snake did glide,
Coiled around a nude boy
And buried its fangs in his side;
A youth waded in to~
The illfattd boy’s aid,
And bore him out into
, The sheltering shade.
Realising the victim
Was sinking fast*
He bore him to a farm
Where he breathed his Last.
'• -McG. : The flag is all right, but you can’t wave
it. .. . Jum B.: Creaky verse. . ..Pentagon: Too rough,
and there are no new ideas in it C.B A • All the
old gags and tags. ~. E.F.L.: Slabs unsuitable....
K. McC.: No Droughty B.: They deserve the
money. We’ll have to try and pull through....
I J.J.M.: The patriotic-song market is overstocked.
Anyhow, the demand for .bad verse is always limited.
....Will .7. (V.) : Tutor dismissed without a refer-
ence. ... N. B.: Do you see the dorsal fin of the basket
streaking in your direction? Ronald B. F.: Varia-
tiohs of that obvious jest have been circulating for
years.... Dyard: Long Bill seems to be a bore of the
most deadly description Mourilli: It lacks origin-
ality ... .Arthur R. (Q.): No new flashes, streaks or
spots Block 10: You seem to be full of genuine
emotion, but the Old Home Track has been trodden
bare by’better bards Cook’s Holiday: We will
keep vour guilty secret. Forget you ever wrote it.
.. . .C.P.W.L.: Why is the singing patriot always so
keen on getting paid for his song? It isn't the sort
of song we pay for. . . .Q.J. ; Done a million times in
just the same way Isabel C, L. : Sorry, can’t use
it. . . .S.T.S.: Send it direct to the Kaiser by post.
We have a horrible suspicion that he doesn’t read
half the insults that are printed for him. . . . R.C.N.:
Don’t apologise; it won't be printed. .. .E.FI.T.: A
waste of labor so far as we are concerned L.
Pilli: One more dreary war-poem! Monte (W.A.):
It s a difficult metre, and you can’t use it... .G.J.H.:
Almost dull George W.: Cease fire! S.M.J.'•
Not sufficient force R.M.V.: N 0.... Vernon K.:
the topical rain-bard should come down not less
than one day after the deluge H. Smith: Have
small faith in drink cures .at 10s. 6d. a time. Still,
William Maegregor, ex-Governor of Bananaland? and
ex-Medical Officer of Fiji, -said, once, that kava was
a sort of prophylactic against the booze habit. So
it may be worth having a small gamble in the drug
you mention.... William Inyees (or something like
that): (1) It is proposed that the Ministry should
be elected by Parliament, and should last from the
beginning of the new Parliament till the end thereof.
(2) You want to know how we could get a consistent
policy under such conditions. Well, what do we get
under present conditions ? How, for instance, do Tudor,
the sturdy Protectionist, and Fisher, the half-hearted
Protectionist, and Hughes, the virulent Freetrader
pull together? How did Watson and Hughes look
,in partnership ? Or Reid and McLean and Turner
.and Pumpkin Smith? Or Deakin and Cook? Or
' Clemons and John Forrest?.*..;Doubting Thomas:
It isn’t Australian paper. This country has been
searched from end to end, but because of the low-
tariff disease, and the importing disease, and the
Freetrade disease, the Australian-made article can’t
be got. It doesn t exist. Some men who make in-
ferior qualities here have been approached, but they
replied that Australian wages for good-class work are
so much higher -than those paid in England and
Norway, and the tariff is so inadequate as a means
of filling the difference, that manufacture is impossi-
ble. If this country was half as anxious to adjust the
tariff weight as it is to adjust the Melbourne Cup
weights, things would be different.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.T. (Maoriland): You ask our “frank opinion”
of your picture. Well, the less said about the pic-
ture the better. And the gag is an ancient steal.
Moreover it wasn’t worth stealing. Some further
frankness might be supplied, but then Kaiser
William might read it, and might be led to believe
that civil war was breaking out in the British
Empire. This delusion would probably encourage
him to another desperate rush on Paris Jones:
Your picture is acknowledged as requested. There
being nothing pleasant to say about it the matter
stops with the acknowledgment. .. .A.S.: Picture of
Little in his father’s clothes is valueless....
Jas. G.: It is inferior soap C.G. (Tas.) : Very
crude. An untutored boy of 16 would have to be
exceptionally clever to do publishable work right off.
....Ethel S.: Nothing in the idea... . W.W.D. ■
Young humor, stiff drawing J.H.K.: No more'
thanks.... Ronald S.: Take it away! Take it
quickly !. .. . W.C.F.: Dreadful grotesques. .T.R.
(N.S.) : They're copies of aboriginal carvings, aren’t
they ?. .. . J.M. (W.A.) : Unsuitable. .. .Jack G.: If
it was the man with the whiskers who kissed her
she should have known it.... Ghost: Ship looks more
like an English pier.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £1" 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, Iroin £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRI.TT, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson A Co., 11l
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills A Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRAL IA ENGLAN D.
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hanking. Public Companies, Ac.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. 11. O'M. WOOD,
11. D. HALL.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at 3i% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000
Directors : lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. RORERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; lion. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914).. .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE —George find King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N.
Yakwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales k Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ~£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. . ■ 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . v. . . 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial Iflutual Qife
1 assurance society limited
for
Mutual Life Assurance,- Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated tunds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000 000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
lb Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed,
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J, Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Biuce Smith. K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS And PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259' George Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £0 Bs. fid. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. fid.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as iollows (circumstances permitting):
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
ROCK HAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this anil other
Queensland ports). J
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Octobei 31.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 4.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 7.
PEREGRINE (3500 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 11.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 14.
l'or
mkujourne
(Transhipping for
S.A. ami W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 31.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Nov. 7.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, .etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
undeiTneutral flag
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10 000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
’ Glassed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BAIHb.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY--
I Nov. 21 I Jan. 16 | Mar. 18 I May 8
' Dec. 19 I Feb. 13 | April 10 j June 5
mu p onn Francisco Panama Exposition is open
. 1 - Tickpts issued to London
February-December, 1910. lickets issi
tv 2282Sr iSC0 Ap d ply a -S4 b HT a T y STREET, In SYDNEY.
~^ON~ THE HOi .‘uiperb lißrary
volume, containing ovel p 4°° 2l/ 0 . f
uunn’fi" best drawings. rrice i
from "Tim Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
feX
1
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIOECIOUS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Macliellar, lit., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq. _
Robert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Eosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The lion. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William E C
He %VB^cM r SnSV iX n A?st r a,ia„ Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
• Agents and Correspondents throughout the Wor t. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
of Credit and Circular
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tounst, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
X. C. TKOEDSON, Director,
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
..£2,000,000 0
. . 1,730,000 0
. . 2,000,000 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Gkoroe J. Coiif.n. Esq Chairman.
lion II E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon’ II Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibus.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779.291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. '
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man. : E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Oanncn Street, London,
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in Tiie Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d-
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . • . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital ■ . • • • . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,601,608
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great 13ri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Business Notices.
MR. BERNARD HISHIN, General Mana-
ger for Mr. Louis Meyer, Strand Theatre, etc.,
will be at liberty at or about Christmas. Besides
West End management, Mr. Hishin has operated and
booked Mr. Meyer’s touring companies, and also his
tours of Canada, Africa and Australia. Address,
Strand Theatre, London W.C. Pleased to entertain
offer similar capacity Australian Management.
The best savings BANK Of ALL, -10 Per Cent.
Interest Guaranteed for 3 Years.
WELCOME HOME ESTATE, WOY WOY.
Choice Blocks, from £l5 each, ss. per lot deposit
and ss. per lot per month. If the buyer is not
satisfied with his bargain three years after pur-
chase we undertake to refund all sums paid on
account of purchase money, with 10 per cent,
interest added. Every buyer will receive a legal
guarantee to this effect.
""”e ask better proof of value?
STAPLES & CO., Estate Agents-, Woy Woy, N.S.W.
Shipping-
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australia «
Victorian and Queensland Ports-
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Nov. 21 and Dec. 10-
(Carrying First ana
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
INNAMINOKA, Oct. 31.
WOf-LOWRA, Nov. 14.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Compame
on all services subject to conditions, which ca
ascertained on application at the Company s omc .
G. S. YUILL Sc CO.. LTD..
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STRUCT, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery,
Lift, t Twin-Screw Steamer.
Cabins de luxe en
Laundry, Electric
First Saloon passengers wishing to break journey at
New Zealand may proceed by Intercolonial steamer
from Sydney without extra charge.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia," “Westralia,”
“ Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,’
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and iron: Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ”
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA”
T.S.S. “ KYARRA”
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA”
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA”
S.S. “ WYANDRA”
10,000 tons
7000 tons
7000 tons
6500 tons
6500 tons
4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy aiid pleasant. Aitei
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Interstate Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP S COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
the teeth cleaned both
easily and thoroughly
VjCARBOUCiI
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.Manchester, Eng.


HoteU. &c.
'EORGE HOTEL,
* St. iLilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and. night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
. . J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
lium
k
SYDNEY: John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE: Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH; McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
IN USING
SALT
you not only Season
but Strengthen all
the Food.
GOOGLIES
THE NEW INDOOR
CRICKET GAME
j
fgj
Immensely Popular in England
The Only Perfect Table Game of Cricket
Keenly interesting over by over and
wicket after wicket. Every incident of a
regular match’ provided .for. Sides chosen,
innings tossed for, each player bats, every
£un scored, six-ball overs, each ball re-
corded, byes, leg-byes, wides and no-balls
shown, as well as every cause of dismissal: bowled, caught,
stumped, leg-before, run but, hit wicket or retired hurt.
The game proceeds just as in a regular (natch and the
keenest interest is sustained, with the greatest excitement
when there is a close finish. Any number may play, but
eleven a side makes the best game. The ordinary rules of
cricket apply in every case. An excellent scoring book is
supplied, exactly as for a regular game, with all details for
analysis for 64 innings. Printed directions and entire outfit
packed in a nice box. Try it and you will say it is the best
table game you have ever played. Price 2f3 we pay carriage
to any address. The Union Manufacturing & Agency Company,
J _ _ _ 299 Elizabeth Street, _
T'VURING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of
Pkos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days come round.
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSiTT & CO.,
Melbourne.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
Commonwealth
fgj
Jan^itamlia
Open
for all
in the
principal
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
CR Forelgubill, negotiated alld collected.
Exchange Buaineaa of every deBeri I) tioi. traMMted vithin thl forwarued for collection Banking and
Current accounts opened, intere.t paid on fixed depoaita. Advano™^
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at
per annum &/ Q
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL S
JAMES KELL, Deputy Gorernor.
avings Bank Facilities
DENISON MILLER.
Gorernor.
IF YOU SHAVE WITH A “PLUty”
N-
Vi
You experience the satisfaction which only a high-grade razor can give.
s ’he “PLUM” RAZOR
is the finest razor on the market, and is right “at the front” for
efficiency. A keen-edged blade that shaves easily, and leaves the skin
soft and smooth. We know the edge a razor requires to give the
best results, as we are practical tradesmen.
WRITE FOR A "PLUM” TO-DAY —10 6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/G.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/G.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
All the Above Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Helps the razor—
Saves the shaver.
COLGATE’S
snacuNO stick
Applied directly to the face, Colgate’s Stick
does away with the bother of a shaving mug.
Simply rub the Stick on your wet face —then
the lather is immediately worked up with the
brush on the face.
No need, either, of the mussy operation of
“rubbing in” with the fingers, for every motion
of the brush not only works the lather up, but
also works it in. Colgate’s Shaving Slick nicuus
economy and comfort.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
If you wish a trial size—enough for a month’s use—use the coupon.
COUPON.
Chipman, Ltd., 54 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a trial size of Colgate's Shaving Stick, in a
handsome nickelled box. 1 enclose 2d. in stamps to defray cost of
packing and postage.
Name - -
Addiess
SB
S&f.v.
m
&
I
r'i'.i-
C
**
m
So
SS
m
Macmillan’s
Publications
The prices in this list are thuse at which the
various boohs are published in London. The
prices in parentheses are thuse at which the
books are supplied by retail booksellers in Vic-
toria, New South 1 Vales and South Australia.
Postage is extra, at the rale of 2d. per pound
within the Australian Commonwealth.
THE NATIVE TRIBES OF THE
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF
AUSTRALIA. Bv W. BALDWIN
SPENCER, C.M.G., F.R.S., Professor
of Biology, University of Melbourne.
With 8 plates in color and numerous
other illustrations. Bvo. 21s. not
(255.).
The Times: “Professor Spencer continues the
important first-hand investigations into the life
of the Australian native, in which his name h-is
been so closely associated with the late Frank
J. Gillen, to whose memory he dedicates the
book. It contains the scientific results of his
work as Special Commissioner for Aboriginals.’’
THE WILDS OF MAORILANJD.
By JAMES MACKINTOSH BELL,
M.A., Ph.L., with 8 plates in color,
many other illustrations in black and
white, and several maps. Demy Bvo
(155.).
THE BISIIOP OF BALLARAT,
AUSTRALIAN SERMONS. Preached
to Country Congregations ’ by
ARTHUR VINCENT GREEN,
M.A. (Melb.), LL.D. (Syd.), Bishop
of Ballarat. Crown Bvo. [Shortly.
THE EUROPEAN CRISIS.
WHY BRITAIN IS AT WAR. The
Causes and the Issues set out, in
brief form, from the Diplomatic
Correspondence and Speeches ' of
Ministers. By Sir EDWARD COOK.
Bvo, sewed, 2d.
A FLEET IN BEING. By RUD-
YARD KIPLING. Crown Bvo, cloth,
Is. 6d. net (Is. 9d.) ; sewed, Is. net.
(Is. 3d.)
AIRCRAFT IN WAR. By J. M.
SPAIGHT, LL.D., Author of “War
Rights on Land.” Bvo. 6s. net.
(7s. 6d.)
Saturday Review: “The book tells us exactly
what is the law—or. rather, what is not the
law —for nations at battle in the air. It has
an intense and an immediate interest.”
ENGLAND AND GERMANY. By
AUSTIN HARRISON. Crown Bvo.
2s. 6d. net. (35.) Published 1907.
Daily News: “Mr. Harrison’s work may be
recommended for much clever observation of
Germany’s present conditions. The chapters on
‘Social Democracy,’ ‘German Materialism,’ and
‘German State Economy’ are full of interesting
and suggestive matter.”
MILITARY TEXT-BOOKS.
THE PRINCIPLES OF WAR HIS-
TORICALLY ILLUSTRATED,
Vol. I. By Major-General E. A.
ALTHAM, C. 8., C.M.G. With an
Introduction by General Sir
HORACE L. SMITH-DORRIEN,
G.C.8., D. 5.0., etc. With a separ-
ate volume of Maps. Bvo. 10s. 6d.
net. (12s. 6d.)
Westminster Gazette : “It is greatly to be
hoped that every British officer will study as it
deserves one of the most thoroughly practical
and illuminating military treatises yet pub-
lished in the English language.”
MODERN ARTILLERY IN THE
FIELD. A Description of the Artil-
lery of the Field Army, and the"
Principles and Methods of its Em-
ployment. By Colonel 11. A.
BETH ELL, R.F.A. With 14 Plates
and 126 Illustrations in the text.
Bvo. 7s. 6d. net. (95.)
Army and Navy Gazette : “A valuable and
extremely readable b00k.... We recommend it
not only to officers of all arms, but to laymen,
who will find that the clear style and abs. of
technicalities render it much easier to under-
stand than the average military work.”
OUR CAVALRY. By Major-General
M. F. RIMINGTON. C.V.0., C.B.
With 8 Diagrams. Bvo. ss. net.
(65.)
United Service Magazine: “One of the most
readable books dealing with our cavalry which
has appeared for many a long day.”
* * A Full List of Macmillan's Military
Text-Books will he sent post free on
application.
THE PRINCIPLES OF INTERNA-
TIONAL LAW. Bv T. J. LAW-
RENCE, M.A., LL.D. Fourth
Edition. Extra Crown Bvo. 12s ; 6d.
net. (155.)
Saturday Review : “As an expository text-
book of the field of international law in all its
branches there is none which can be read with
more profit and Pleasure than Dr. Lawrence’s
‘Principles of International Law.’ ”
A HANDBOOK OF PUBLIC IN-
TERNATIONAL LAW. Bv T. J.
LAWRENCE, M.A., LL.D. Eighth
Edition. Globe Bvo. 3s.
Law Magazine : “Can be used with confidence
not only by students but also by those who have
to deal practically with questions of inter-
national law.”
SEA INSURANCE ACCORDING TO
BRITISH STATUTE. By WIL-
LIAM GOW, M.A., Ph.D., Author of
“Marine Insurance.” Bvo. 14s. net.
(175.)
FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE TO
HER NURSES. A Selection from
Miss Nightingale’s Addresses to Pro-
bationers and Nurses of the Nightin-
gale School at St. Thomas’s Hospital.
Crown Bvo. Is. net. (Is. 3d.)
Spectator: “A charming book —which should
be in the hands of every nurse in the land.”
To be obtained from all Booksellers.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE and LONDON.


isl
>i
/
A Sale Offer
6/5 Post Free
It’S our Golden Jubilee at present—
-50 years ' serving the public. We
are commemorating the event with a
sale. We quote one instance :—-
THE JUBILEE,
a Lamington Felt' Hat; with bound
edge, brim .3in. wide, in Hark Grey
and Brown. Was 7/0.
Sale Price, 6/3
WRITE FOR A FULL LIST OF
BARGAINS-IT’S FREE.
FINNEY’S
The Bigßlock, Brisbane.
&
NOW IS THE TIME TO TEST IT.
To all those who are lacking in robust health or are “run down from any
cause whatsoever, Horlicks is warmly recommended. It is an ideal restorative
for' the wife and mother in the home, as well as for the husband or business man
unduly harassed at his daily,calling. Children thrive upon it.
Sample will be sent on receipt of 2d. in s ambs.
HUTCHINSON & CO., 26. Jamieson Steel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TS INVM-
S.eJ
***
t!? malted
Jsrr 2^
BUSW
IN
BANANA LAND
In little Blackall, on the outer Barc-00,
where they run three trains a week, a con-
cert company has been formed to collect
money for the Patriotic (War) - Fund. When
they visit a neighboring town it means, in
some cases, a little jaunt of 150 miles; but
they face that sort of thing quite cheerfully.
The first four concerts accumulated £2OO.
Sidney Kidman has lost one of his best
lieutenants in old John Hall, of Sandring-
ham station, far back in Queensland. Legends
had gathered round the veteran, whose pre-
cise age (anywhere between 70 and SO) was
unknown; but that he had never been near
enough to civilisation to see a train—for
the past 40 years, anyway—was a thing he
said him Sel f; and it was not for want of
invitations to town, either. Hall was killed
by an apparently simple fall from a
stumbling horse while mustering.
“Wyangarie”: At a time when Australia
seems inclined to give better support to
Australian products, let me introduce the
coffee industry as worthy of encouragement.
At present, in North Queensland, the busi-
ness is carried out on a small scale, and the
coffee produced is not inferior in quality
nor more costly to the consumer than the
nigger-product. With more encouragement
the local article should be produced in suffi-
cient quantity to supply the Australian
market; for the climate is very suitable and
plenty of land of the right sort is available.
MATTER OF
COMPENSATION.
NEWCHUM: “Confound it, sir! I have just been stung by one of those darned bees! I
demand reparation!”
COCKY: “ Certainly. You just show me which bee it was and I'll punish the horrid
thing severely."
“Rangan”: Some of Bananaland’s patri-
otic pastoraliSts rushed horses to Brisbane as
presents to the Expeditionary Force. Some
of the mounts were well up to soldiers’
requirements, and some were hardly up to
the requirements of the Zoo. The Defence
Department put orie up at public auction,
and he was knocked down for half a crown
to a Chinaman. Did that moke’s patriotic
ex-owner send the wreck along by malice,
or didn’t he really know any better V
A cry from the North: —
At the police station of a small township west of
Cairns 1 recently examined a few trophies secured by
two police constables and a black-tracker at the
humpy of Ah Googoo, Chinese gardener. Exhibit A
was a cocoa tin holdings 4oz.' of morphia. Exhibit B
was a tea tin containing a few hundred neatly-made-
up packets. I did not weigh each, but one grain of
the drug seemed to be the average content. Exhibit C
was the billhead of a white chemist. It set forth
that Ah Googoo had been indebted to the white
chemist for ooz. of morphia and that the amount had
been paid—£3 155., being at the rate of 15s. per
oz. Now, the black-tracker had paid the Chow 2s.
for two of the srfiall packets, each containing one
grain. There are 480 grains in an ounce, so the
saffron trader was buying at 15s. and selling at £24,
a rate of profit that would make even a Beef Trust
blush. Subsequently, with much lamentation, he
paid out £2O odd by way- of a fine. The Chinaman
is not the only caterer for black brother’s craving.
Not long ago a white mifier was Caught supplying an
aboriginal with the mysterious little packets. He
was leniently charged with selling poison without a
license, and was convicted. The fine was small. But
what about the white chemists who sell the stuff in
the first instance ? Can’t we do something uncom-
fortable to them ? If not, let’s round up black
brother and kill him promptly and painlessly.
“Myola”: Recent mention by The Bulle-
tin of the necessity for Government control
of artesian waters reminds me of an incident
in this connection which shows what an ass
Private Enterprise can be. A Victorian co.
established a residential golf club and links
away out of Melbourne. After the course
had been laid out and the club house built,
a bore was sunk for water, which was
duly obtained. The last word in wind-
mills was installed and tanks placed on a
frame in the air. “Excellent,” said the co.,
when it motored out to see. “Let us bore
some more, and our playground shall be green
for ever.” Water -was struck in two other
parts of the property, and more tanks set
up at large expense. Only when the last
bore was completed did it occur to somebody
to have the water analysed, when it was
found to be so highly charged with minerals
that it was absolutely useless for either irri-
gation or stock. The tanks and windmills
remain—three standing jokes to the simple
peasantry in the neighborhood.
“Jno. L.”: Some of the horses donated
by Northern squatters to Bananaland’s
swaddies are turning out to be the worst
outlaws ever yarded. ' I watched a few of
them tried the other day, and saw
variety of buck and pig-root. The pearl of
the lot came last. It was tried by a horse-
breaker- in a yard surrounded by a Gft.
fence, on top of which sat several military
over-lords. The gentle steed threw its rider
over the fence, rushed open-mouthed at the
group of Hannibals (who promptly turned
back somersaults), and then jumped the
fence and tried to eat its late captor. Only
vigorous remonstrance with a loose paling
hindered the cannibal.
Bananaland’s railways have been spend-
ing some of their revenue in buying a little
experience. For instance, £4106 was sent
to London for a Renard road train, and
£2762 was spent in making a road for it.
While in use it earned £209, and cost £957
to run. Its present address is the scrap-
heap at Ipswich, whence it will be sold
when opportunity offers. Following this
failure, the bad Australians in charge paid
£36,000 to Uncle Sam for five Yankee auto-
cars. It was expected to get them through
the Customs with £l5O duty per car, but the
authorities rightly hit the mad importers up
to the tune of £9242. Two of these cars are
now doing their best to save their reputation
on suburban lines, but it is a very unsatis-
factory best. The other tlnee are perma-
nently undergoing repairs at Ipswich.
Patching up the incapable foreign workman’s
failures is a poor job for good Australians,
but that seems to be the gospel of our indus-
trial faith.
In the Garden.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]]
At Kheims. . . .the smell of burning bodies per-
vades the air.— Cable.
How distant seems the mutter of the town !
The paper slips from fingers slack with
dreams;
Yet still the black line dances up and down
Through flick of green, and slim boles, moistly
* brown,
And.... they are burning bodies close to
Itheims!
A jacaranda, delicate, a-flower.
Flings cornucopias for the spying bee,
Leaves on the grass a mauve and mystic
shower,
Trims with unusual buds the bamboo’s bower,
Remakes old memories in new witchery.
And in a subtly scented, sun-souglit place
The slight, blue lupins juggle with the wind ;
Snapdragons stiffly ape their inwrought grace,
And stocks reveal a soft and fragrant face
Pale for the loves the year has left behind.
That jacaranda blossom caught a bee!
A wax-producer, surely ! For it fed
Into a honey doze of ecstasy,
And blundered out in drunk stupidity,
Trailing its bulk across a violet bed,
To hang throughout a drowsy afternoon
Among its fellows in a dark liive-home.
Deaf to the breezes in bent boughs a-croon,
Part of a moveless, silent, winged festoon,
Slave to its duty till the wax scales come.
So life goes on, as in full many a Spring,
A fairy perfume flask, a woof of dreams.
Oh, I can scarce believe, where everything
Moves in the spanning of a magic ring,
The smell of burning fills the air at Rheims !
I longed so much for Spring, was glad at last
To feel the boon October in tli4 air,
To know the winter chills were overpast,
Dry leaves no more about the grey walks
cast,
Stark branches finding. Summer smocks to
wear.
This morning I was hapny when I found
A red carnation with a fluted mouth,
A pansy raising gold eyes from the ground,
A jasmine from the north side stealing round
As though it sought a lover on the south.
A little while I had perhaps forgot
fSo far away from Death mv garden seems)
The choke of lyddite, and the ping of shot.
That burial means no decent railed-in plot,
But bodies.. . .-burning slowly.. . .close to
Rheims. ...
Tf I could hide in flowers this horrid thing!
Tbit though I cast the printed page away,
The sky is darkened by a vulture's winy.
■ 1 drift of smoke blots out the blue of tinriny.
They bum men's bodies close to Kheims ;
to-day. - - ,
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 24, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,—
A few questions, in connection with ex-
German Consul Dr. Eugen Hirschfeld s
appointment to the Legislative Council, were
asked by Welsby, member for Merthyr, this
week. The Premier’s statement in reply
was that the German’s appointment to the
State’s Parliament had been made in strict
accordance with the Constitution of Queens-
land, and that it would not be cancelled, So
there seems nothing more to be said
audibly.
Handsome Leslie Harris has given her
friends the usual notice of her approaching
marriage with Arthur Bullivant, of Victoria.
The amalgamation will occur on November
25, at All Saints’ Church, and the wedding
cake will be nibbled at Mayfield, the home
of the A. H. Whittinghams.
Two weddings happened here on October
14 of interest to folks in your territory. One
was by mutual agreement between Dr.
Herbert Clatworthy, son of a Sydney medico,
and Miss Stephanie Raff, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. A. C. Raff. The other was a put-
up job between Eric Sparkes, son of the
Sparkeses, of Hamilton, and Miss Fames,
a daughter of the late Dr. Bunbury Fames.
Mrs. Bring Roberts tea-ed a big crowd on
Tuesday afternoon, in honor of daughter
Isabel, who is about to face matrimony with
all the courage of youth and inexperience.
To-morrow a party of press pals, with
members of the Ladies’ Rowing Club, which
Miss Roberts founded, are having a river trip
in her honor. I think I broke the news to
you last week that Miss Roberts (who orna-
ments the local Daily Maxi.) has decided that
the broom is .mightier than the pen. A num-
ber of her girl friends were gathered together
the other day by Mrs. Ned Tally, and the
good wish that money can’t buy nor the
moths eat was whispered unanimously. Yes-
terday the Gailey girls, who are very old
friends of Miss Roberts’s, fed an assortment
of the safety-pin sex at a “hosiery and linen
tea.”
Mrs. Alec Gibson, the pretty wife of our
youngest Uni. professor, passed' the festive
cup on Friday afternoon. Some 30 teamales
were on hand.
Mrs. A. B. Carvosso was another of the
week’s hostesses, and, as her parties are
always happy affairs, where everyone
instantly feels to “belong,” this jollity was
an unqualified and irrevocable success. The
Boyd Irwins, Mary Worth and a few of the
other “Within the Law” people were present.
The Babies of Britain Milk Fund was the
reason for a fete which happened at the
Atthow residence, at Clayfield, this after-
noon. Incidentally, it might be bellowed
that the babies of Queensland require pure
milk, too, and there seems no adequate reason
for there being at present 15 cases of gastro-
enteritis (the number given at the last com-
mittee meeting) in the Children’s Hospital.
Also, there were 40 or more cases of diph-
theria. Anyone who has a desire to fight
something at home can begin by chasing our
dirty and dishonest milkmen.
Avon Allan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J.
Allan, of Strathyre, and formerly .of Monaro
(N.S.W.), has accepted the diamond ring of
impending matrimony from Lieut. Edward
Costello, whose parents are well-known resi-
dents of Thane’s Creek.. .
Mrs. Scougall gave a croquet party on
Wednesday afternoon, in honor of Mrs. E. T.
White, who has just unpacked her new
clothes, after a holiday in America, Europe
and Britain.
That section of the community which
objects to seeing sister-women walking the
uneasy path of the tippler called upon the
Home Secretary on Wednesday, and asked
him to have the Liquor Act, administered in
a preventive way. It appears that some
publicans have lately been providing an entic-
ing private parlor, “For females only,” which
is causing the fly to walk into the spider’s
drinkery. Minister Appel said the matter
would be given due consideration, and so on.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
A. C. Veatch, Queensland’s Consulting
Geologist, has been overhauling N.S.W.
Geologist Game’s theory that rock oil isn’t
likely to be found in Australia. Carne said
that the burst of gas from the Roma bore
was probably derived from coaly strata.
“Moreover, there is entire absence of the
usual geological strata associated with the
occurrence of oil in the majority of oil fields.
Folding is conspicuously absent.” ' Veatch
rejoins that oil is found in coal-bearing
strata in Trinidad, Wyoming and Illinois;
that many commercial oil wells have prac-
tically no gas pressure; and that most of
Mexican oil production comes from beds not
markedly folded. Boverton Redwood agrees
with W. 11. Dalton (late of the British
Geological Survey), who says: “Mr. Carne
is incorrect in stating that the gas was
encountered in coal-bearing rocks.... The
pressure of gas sufficed to hinder operations
. . . .arid its character is distinctly that of an
oil gas.” Nothing but deep boring can estab-
lish the existence or non-existence of petro-
leum. and Dalton says there is more than
enough evidence to warrant this boring. On
this the Q. Government proposes going to
work in earnest.


# * ** *
• •',.'' 1 ’,, •-,*,•,;«!«?■*»»’
„ . ■•,*>■■
/ <**&<■*>
1
V
/s**'*>;t*
#»
*<»*,»*#
#***
*?g
~» .
hn4S|
SS
I
• .
■
t:sm
• .
SS
3g59R9%v%
«&. »*»<*»«>
Bk
:■:■
m ■
W
Bißßi mk
m
■ Ipj!
i
■ mMi
m m:Ux
Wm m
m
m
MH»a3&,Ur:,:
Bra- ml
■ m
ISiHssipsf
Wmm. ss®
BB By
IP
SEvSssp
Egg?
Bf?slS§- ■
-WB?
m
■
&
*s**
?»**.*«
**»*,»*■?
*»*
*#**
««*«*
h>a*
#»;«;♦*
!fal
m
*s**'<#+
«**f* v *s
**»'*«»
* •#'**>
»*•*«**
*******
*******
•V«t<
♦«** , *»
t»W
»*•>**
k ■ ••..
k .* s . ■■■* \', '.
v „*i *» r? 1* * *•• ~»
Hk. * ■-' *" ** * •
> ■
>*»«»#;;
&* »«.** .
if*#/'
?*:{J
*»,»>»
•4**rk- ;
!»;»<**t? ss»'.»
■■■> *£tV£T*
f vS^ T - ; 'V>V
AJHI
HP
En*
♦A
;*v
8 *
Actual
Size
130 m/m
Section
of New
Cover.
The Latest
• • ' j ■ - j - r
New....
DUNLOP
]
Long-Service
Limousine
Oversize” Cover
This new Tyre has just been placed on the market to meet the demand
or an extra strong heavy “Oversize” Cover that will ensure the user
nrtdn^fit ng - SerVlCe than any ° ther Tyre seen in Australasia. Its
th-V" Ply „° f heavy canvas in casin & ensuring
g , § ’ dicker rubber walls on side of cover, to prevent cutting
’ a " d a " extra heavy high qualit y wearing
tread, the whole comprising a cover of extraordinary strength and
durability in keeping with the high standard of
DUNLOP TYRES
Sf y -r ked “ he Allowing sizes: 815 x 120 mm., 875 x 120 mm., 915 x 120 mm.
820 x 130 mm., 880 x 130 mm., 920 x 130 mm., 37 x 5 in. (American Size).
The cost of these covers, whilst being slightly higher than our standard types,
wdl prove by experience the Cheapest to use, for the additional mileage
y give renders them the Most Economical Cover that any Motorist can
use. e have tested them and found they give splendid mileage on the
roughest of roads under heavy loads. We have just -.issued a new
Price List of DUNLOP TYRES, including prices of the-above new,
Tyre, and will be pleased to mail you a copy.
m m
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
(Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry)
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne •- d
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
103-105 Flinders Street, Adelaide
67 King Street, Perth
268-274 Adelaide Street, Brisbane ***
95 Courtenay Place, Wellington 81
116 Worcester Street, Christchurchj
53 Cameron Street, Launceston
Msmmm
■ ■
mm
il
v/s/Zv/}// * v-^»*;
•■"' r
.


fgj
WHY DON'T YOU,
too, wear Abbey Shoes? Judged
by the extra service they give,
ABBEY Shoes cost no more than
ordinary footwear.
The boot illustrated is a smart,
made-to-order style, All-Patent
Derby Bah, leather lined.
Price - 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace theatre, Sydney.
fg
jfg
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARAMS’
Kgyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used."
“Arabis" Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
anv Ilair Stain’on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y~u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
NO INCREASE
IN PRICES of
MICHELIN
TY
U nint er rupted Supplies
during' the War obtainable
from all beading Agents.
“ON THE HOP!”
A superb library volume, handsomely
and bound; containing upwards of
hundred Of ‘’Hop’s” best drawings
Bulletin sifce. Price, 21s.
printed
Three
. Full
the Cheapest.
A GIANT OF STRENGTH.
AMERICAN
RING PULVERISERS
Reduce your grinding unit to one machine, one belt, one
elevator, one screen, less room, less power, and secure
your finished tonnage with less operation cost per ton.
More Tonnage-Less Installation Cost.
Describe your material—state tonnage and mesh screen
you use.
Pulveriser
Don’t reonire one-hai, the speed—THE BING IS «
Tonnage and Pines gnaeanteed. Write lor „art.cula M .
i
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES-
tiAES & E
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.


Bring the sea and the Sunshine
Home in Your KODAK.
'/5
1
&
-'
Wk
m
*v
«r'
3fe
\v.
<w>
w,
-■m
iS
i
WS
s/&^
I
I
ag
mx
Take the sea home with you.
children.
Take home the sunny sands.
Take home the happy surf bathers, the romping
Take home the bush, the green paddocks, and the friend
of interest you visited.
s who were with you.
Take home the various places'
Take all your holiday home in a Kodak.
Let your Kodak retain the memory of the scenes that please vou
happiness.
Let it catch, and hold forever, all your holiday
You will soon have such a memory-gallery of places, and
wonder why you ever spent a holiday without your Kodak-
wasted.
of people who have made you happy, that you will
Remember: a holiday without a Kodak is a holiday
Don’t waste your holidays
this year: take a Kodak.
Remember, you can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour.
There are Kodaks at all prices. Here are three:—
The Vest Pocket Kodak is a very small, compact camera,
fitted with Achromatic Men-
iscus Lens, and weighing
only 9 ounces, taking pic-
tures 2| x 1# inches, which
are easily enlarged. Price
30/- Eight exposure spools
cost 1/-
The No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak —takes pictures 4| x3l
inches —the popular quarter-plate size—excellent rapid rec-
tilinear lens —Kodak ball-bearing shutter —takes 12 pictures
without reloading—£3/12/6.
The 3A Folding Pocket Kodak takes pictures 54x31 inches
(popular post-card size), double combination rectilinear lens,
Kodak automatic shutter. Price £5/2/6.
There are Brownies from 5/- up to 50/-.
Get the latest Kodak Catalogue.
Subscribe to the “ Australasian Photo. Review.” Any Kodak
Dealer or Branch will take your subscription—4/6 per annum.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE- —“The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA Rtttjiven Street.
TOWNSVILLE Fliniers Street.
ROCKHAMPTON—Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.) Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND (N.Z.) 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN (N.Z.) 76 Stuart Street.
The “Miner’s” Watch.
Ihe tiny particles of coal dust or grit—which make an ordinary
watch useless for the Miner— cannot get into the movement of
this Watch. The Case is made of polished Nickel with SCREW
FRONT-—fitted with stout crystal glass. The movement is
splendidly made, with compensation balance and Brequet Hair
Spring, and is positively dust and damp proof.
We have supplied hundreds of Miners and Workers in Quarries
with these watches, and every watch is giving thorough
satisfaction.
Post Free -20/-
Being actual importers of Watches, we are able to give better
value at the same, or a lower, price than Houses who
have to buy from a middleman. Write for our Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
412 George Street, SYDNEY.
SIEMENS
for Complete
Crane Equipments.
■S
We specialise in Motors and Controllers
for heavy duty and crane service*
Let us have your enquiries*
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works Ltd.
Head Office: London.
Machine G&i Switchgear WorKs-Stafford, England
Cable 0. Telegraph "WorKs—Woolwich, London
Incandesceait Lamp WorKs—Dalston, London.
Australian Offices:
59 William Street, MELBOURNE.
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH I). McINTOSH.
Twice Daily at 2.30 and 8.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
1 FLORENCE SMITHSON.
THE 4 BOISES. RUSSELL & HELD.
TOM KELLY. STELLING & REVELL.
FATIMA. TORINO.
JAMES TEDDY. JOHN EARL.
JEROME & CARSON. MARSHALL CROSBY.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson's.
1“IVOI,I THEATRE, MELBOURNE
PAUL CINQUEVALLI. AL HERMAN.
MDDLE. DAVENPORT. FIELDS & COCO.
DE DIO. ANNA lIANNA.
CARPATII BROS. HELEN LEACH. WALLIN TRIO.
RICH & GALVIN. YAUDE & VERNE. •
lIAMMON & WYATT. TED MERCELL.
Box Plan at Glen's. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
"|“ IVO 1/ I TIIEA T R E, ADELAIDE
FOUR ASCOTS. WRIGHT & DIETRICH.
EDDIE MARTIN. GEORGE HALL. ‘
ALVERITO REGGO & STOPPITT.
ROBERTS & LESTER. POWER BROS.
SENOR WESTONY.
MARCO & FANCIION WOLFF.
|_| E R SI A ,J E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN COMIC OPERA. -
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE GONDOLIERS.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31,
__ J OLA N TH E,
TO BE STAGED FOR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
SUPERB AUSTRALIAN CHORUS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
fN RITE HI ON THJS AT RE, SYDNEY.
w lessee FRANK MUSGIIOVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in George M. Cohan’s Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE,
Founded on the Story by Earl Derr Biggers.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
T II F a T It E It O Y A 1,. S Y !) N E Y
■ Lessees - J. C. ,WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS.
MA U D ALL A N
and
Leo, Jan. Mischel
OHKRNIAVSICY.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
A*>Kl r II 1 lIIEA T K E. SYD N E Y
n Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
George Willoughby’s New Dramatic Company in
the Sensational, Emotional and Thrilling Drama,
DRIVING A GIRL TO
DESTRUCTION.
Success of our War Prices: Front Stalls, 2/-- Dress
Circle, 1/6; Back Stalls, 1/-; Gallery, 6d.
The little theatre, Sydney,
Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
Last Two Nights of LORD AND LADY ALGY.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 31.
MR. HUGH C. BUCKLER
and
MISS VIOLET PAGET
i n
HIS HOUSE IN ORDER.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited '
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, Geneml ■ Manager.
THE KING’S THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of Australia’s Favorite,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in
MADAME DU BARRY.
Prices: 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans Allan’s.
IRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH.
POSITIVELY LAST TWO WEEKS.
EACH NIGHT AT 8. EACH NIGHT AT 8.
In the Beautiful •
PLAZATORO, WIRTHS’ PARK.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and Gallery 1/-, except
Saturdays and Holidays.
|_| Kit MAJESTY’!* THEATRE. MELBOURNE
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
THE GIRL JN THE TAXI.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
II E A T R E R O Y A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 31.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
MURIEL STARR
in
WITHIN THE LAW.
FOR A FEW NIGHTS ONLY. '
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
P K INC ESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 31.
GEO. WILLOUGHBY, LTD., present G. R. SIMS’
, Great Drama of London Life,
THE EVEIGOPJiN HO OH.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
SPLANADE, . ST. KILDA, MELBOURNE.
Direction NIGEL BROCK.
THE GTL EEN DANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at. 5.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
BIJOU T II E A T R E, M E L H O U R N K.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
'Governing Director BEN J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
AERIAL BARTLETTS, MULLANEY TWINS; EDIE
BOLTON, MERRILL’S YIP YAPS, DAN THOMAS,
ED. BLONDELL, JOCK THOMPSON, DEAVES’
MANNIKINS.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, II- ft 6d. Matinfes: 1/S. 1/- ft 6d.
PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE RIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
Birch & c a r r o i. i.
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Picture - Showmen.
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
We are Sole Agents for the famous
Kelvin Generating Sets. Admitted as
the most up to date in Australia.
We are shortly landing new ship-
ments of all capacities.
We have also secured the Agency
for Kamm’s New Patent Bioscope.
Guaranteed
British Made.
A most up-to-date Stock of CINEMATOGRAPH ACCESSORIES,
RAMPS, LENSES, CONDENSERS, PASTILLES, LIMES, etc.,
Stocli.
Write us your requirements.
JETS, ARC
at present in
JERDAN’S,
MY OPTICIANS,
393 George Street, Sydney.
The . . .
Royal Bank of Australia Limited
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FIFTY-THIRD REPORT
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on October 30, 1914.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and State-
ment of Accounts for the Half-Year ending September 30, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £7164 18s. 6d. brought from last half-year) amount to £27,345 2 11
which it is proposed .to deal with as follows, vi/,.:
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum . . . . . . . . £12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £232,500) . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,500 0 0
And to carry forward the balance .. .. .. •• .• .. .. .. 7,845 211
, £27,345 2 11
The London Branch was opened on June 6 in most convenient and centrally situated premises at
18 Bishopsgate, under the management of Mr. H. Le M. Latreille, and good results are anticipated there-
from.
The Directors consider it fortunate that the general manager, who went to London to inaugurate
the new branch, should have been there during the troublous times which we have been passing through
since the commencement of war.
Mr. Wilson hopes to be able to return to Melbourne at an early date.
By Order of the Board, A. ADAMSON LAING, Acting General Manager.
BALANCE SHEET of the ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
For the Half-Year Ending September 30, 1914.
D Ri Including London Branch Balances to August 24, 1914. Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 shares
of £4 each .. £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed- —•
300,000 shares
of £4 each . . £1,200,000 0 0
„ To Capital paid-up £300,000 0 0
„ Reserve Fund . . 225.000 0 0
„ Profit and Loss
Account . . 27,345 2 11
„ Notes in circulation
~ Bills in circulation
To Government Deposits—•
Not bearing interest £34,151 17
Bearing interest. . 464,649 14
£552,345
1,014
237,379
2 11
0 0
8 4
To Other Deposits—Rebate
and Interest Accrued —•
Not bearing interest £811,628 15 8
Bearing interest. . 949,471 8 3
~ Balances due to other banks
498,801 12 2
1,761,100 3 11
4,118 0 6
£3,054,758 7 10
To Contingent liabilities as per contra 578,997 0 0
£3,633,755 7 10
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
and cash at
bankers’ .. £617,636 1 0
~ Money at call
and short notice 130,000 0 0
~ Notes and bills
of other banks 508 11 5
~ Balances due
from other banks 18,853 10 6
~ Bills and remit-
tances in tran-
sit, and payable
in London . . 450,238 8 4
~ Govern merit,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds 69.955 0 0
„ Stamps . . 912 13 11
£ 1,288,004 5 2
~ Real estate, consisting of bank
premises . . . . . . 60,000 0 0
~ Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision'
for bad and doubtful debts . . 1,704,154 2 8
„ Bank furniture, fittings, station-
ery, etc. . . . . .. 2,600 0 0
£3,054,758 7 10
~ Liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect
of contingent liabilities as per
contra . . . . . . . . 578,997 0 0
£3,633,755 7 10
PROFIT and LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent, income and land
taxes, and other charges.. .. £15,129
„ Balance . . . . . . . . 27,345
0 5
2 11
£42,474 3 4
.. £29,164 18 6
By Balance at March 31, 1914
Less dividend declared
April 29, 1914 ..£12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund . . . . 10,000 0 0
22,000 0 0
~ Balarice carried down .. .. £7,164 18 6
„ Profits for the half-year after
deducting interest accrued on
deposits and rebate on bills
current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts . . . . 35,309 4 10
£42,474 3 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance .. .. .. .. £225,000 0 0
£225,000 0 0
By Balance at March Si, 1914 . . £200,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account . . . . . . . . 10,000 0 4
„ Transfer from Recoveries Account 15,000 0 0
£225,000 0 O'
THE FEDERAL BUILDING SOCIETY.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT for the Year Ending Septembsr 30, 1914,
To be presented' to the Shareholders at a Meeting to be held in the Board Room, Collins House, 3GO-36G
Collins Street, Melbourne, at 12.30 p.m. on Friday, October 30, 1914.
The Directors present herewith their* Tenth Annual Report and Statement of Accounts duly audited:—
The Net Profit for the year is .. .. .. £13,027 3 1
Balance from last year . . . . .. . . 1,2G0 6 10
Making a total of ..' .. .. . .£14,287 9 11
Which the Directors propose to apportion- as follows:
Interim dividend at 7 per cent, per annum (to March 31, 1914), paid April 30
last .. .. .. ... ... ..... . . . . ’ . . . ...
To pay a dividend for the Half-year ending September 30, 1914, at 7 - per dent.
1 per annum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... ■. ,
To Reserve Fund (making it £40,000) .. .. %. 1
Carrying forward.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Messrs. Joseph Major Pratt and Thomas Arkle, who retire from the Board in accordance with the
rules, have been duly nominated for re-election.
The retiring Auditors, Messrs. C. H. Tuckett and W. N. Robertson, have also been nominated for re- •
election.
£4,447 6 2’
4,473 17 0 1
2,000 0 O’
3,366 6 9
Melbourne, October 12, 1914.
J. M. PRATT, Chairman.
A. SCOTT, Secretary,
BALANCE SHEET for the Year Ending 30'h September, 1914.
Dr. liabilities.
To Capital .. .. .j .. . £128,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund (used in Society’s
business) . . . . . . 38,000 0 0
~ Repayments in advance .. . . 3151010
„ Deposits and accrued interest . . 84,546 17 8
„ Balance . . . . £14,287 9 11
~ Less interim divi-
dend paid April
30, 1914 .. 4,447 6 2
9,840 3 9
£260,702 12 3
ASSETS.
iy Loans on mortgage
and bal a n ces
owing bv pur-
chasers of pro-
perties upon
terms . . . . £250,063 10 11
„ Arrears . . . . 1,569 10 10
~ Properties in possession (at valua-
tion as taken over from the old
Society) . .
~ Fees and insurance premiums ..
„ Bank credit
Or.
£251,633 1 9
5,546 16 1
50 8 S
3,472 5 9
£260,702 12 3
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim dividend paid April 30, 1914 £4,447 6 2
~ Management, including salaries,
directors and auditors’ fees ' .. 1,595 0 0
„ Advertising . . 62 7 10
~ Printing and stationery . , . . 82 1 0
„ Commission .. .. .. .. 567 1 5
~ Postages, petty cash, etc. 1 .. 106 14 8
„ Interest .. .. . . . . 3,913 2 7
„ Rent .. . . 400 0 0
„ Rates, insurance and land tax .. 11G 7 8
~ Balance . . . . £14,287 9 11
„ Less interim dividend
paid as above . . 4,447 6 2
, —, 9,840 3 9
£21,130 *5l
By Balance at Septem-
ber 30, 1913 . . £6,906 16 3
~ Less dividend
paid Oct.
29,1913 £3,646 8 5
„ Less trans-
ferred to
reserve 2,000 0 0
—— £5,646 8 6
£1,260 6 10
„ Interest . . 19,761 13 7
~ Fines and commission, etc. , , 108 4 8
£21,130 5 1
A. SCOTT, Secretary.
The TRANSFER BOOKS will be CLOSED from the 17th to 30th October, both dates
The Dividend will be payable immediately after the annual meeting
C. H. TUCKETT, F.C.P.A.,
W« M. i>AKi’RTsnN, F.C.P.A.,
Auditors*
ON THE: HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
The unpleasant manners of the Worst
Gentleman in Europe have upset some more
Australian calculations. There had been
fair booking for the Burns-Philp tour to the
Nile and Palestine, starting from Sydney at
the end of next month ; but, on considera-
tion, the firm has decided that things might
turn out uncomfortably for its clients. The
trip has therefore been deferred for 12
months.
“H.S.” : The death of the two Wise
youngsters, one aboard the Cressv. the other
on the monitor Severn, is .a reminder of the
conservatism of certain British families as
regards the professions they adopt. The
Wises are one of those West Country
families that have supplied the British navy
with officers for centuries. A Wise was
a post-captain in the Armada period, and
since then the name lias rarely been out of
the Navy List. The monitor, bv the way.
is Britain’s contribution to the surprises of
the great war. It is almost flat-bottomed
and very slow, but a deadly enemy by reason
of its tremendous guns, which can be em-
ployed on coastal towns, owing to the ship’s
shallow draught. The daily-paper obitu-
aries of the- dead officer who ivas in com-
mand of the Severn mention that he, and
those under him, were ‘specially picked, as
men would be picked for a forlorn hope.”
This is understandable when it is remem-
bered that the monitor is designed chiefly to
traverse the sandbanks and other obstacles
which guard such harbors as lie around the
North Frisian Islands. The British First
Lord hinted last month that it might be
necessary to go in and dig the German
navy out of the Kiel Canal. In that case
the monitor may have another and bigger
job than it has been yet put to.


All Over Face, Used Cuticura Soap
and Ointment, Not Suffered with
It Since, Also Cured Husband and
Daughter of Sores,
35 Susan St., Annandale, N. S. W.—“l
used to suffer terrible agony with a scurfy
itching all over my face, especially in sum-
mer. I was told by a friend to try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment, which I did, when I
found my face getting better after using one
cake of Cuticura Soap and a little Cuticura
Ointment. I have not suffered with it since.
I always used the Cuticura Soap for the
baby and he has a lovely skin, also to keep
my own skin nice and clear, and always
recommend it to my friends.
“My husband had about six or seven
large sores for which he tried ointments
from the chemist, but they would not heal.
I told him to put some Cuticura Ointment
on them. He did so, and they were better
in about a week, so we always use it now.
My little girl scalded her finger and there
was a large sore, nearly the size of a shilling,
coming and spreading. I was afraid blood
poisoning was setting in till I thought I had
a little of the Cuticura Ointment left.
I put it on and kept bathing it with Cuticura
Soap and warm water, and I could hardly
believe it, as it was healed after only using
a small portion of the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment.” (Signed) Mrs. A. Laundry,
October, 1912.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment do
so much for poor complexions, red, rough
hands, and dry, thin and falling hair, and
cost so little, that it is almost criminal not
to use them. A single set is often sufficient.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment are
sold throughout the world. Liberal sample
of each mailed free, with 32-p. Skin Book.
Address K. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To prorr ptly end the misery of consti-
pation to/pid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, vou must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail—that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor, vitality,
and. a clear com-
plexion are the
result of their
use. You
need them.
jfg
Carter's
Uttle
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price,
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
jfg
r •
V' '
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S iu.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equallv suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars. Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped —Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 C 0 Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSES.
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1914.
ALL participating policies issued in the Ordinary Department before the close of the current year will
share in the Cash Bonus to be then allotted.
Cash Bonus divided for year 1913. .. .. .. £983,500
Yielding reversionary additions to policies of over . . . . £1,730,000
SOCIETY IS PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS,
vow -6 J,ro ®! :s earned are distributed among the participating policy-holders.
NOW is the time to effect an assurance or a fur.her assurance on your life so as to reap the benefit of
this year’s cash Bonus.
, WRI . TE t° the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street. Sydney, or anv District Office or Asrent of the Society for
full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
JAMES STEEL,
Acting Secretary.
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes:
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids* constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
jfg
“ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without danger,
“ even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “ MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous -idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (called Iron ‘Jelloids’
“ No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness—accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anremia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
Iron ‘deltoids’
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anaemia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust ”in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Mr E R. Swift, Member of the Pharmaceutical Society, 236, FartoWn
Bar Huddersfield, writes '“ Iron ‘Jelloids’ lean vouch for as a genuine
pharmaceutical product. The one true remedy for Anaemia is presented in
Iron ‘Jelloids’ in a form which scientists agree is the most active and easily
assimilated.”
A Fortnight’s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
/RON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women;
No. 2A (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
The ‘ Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens!
m
m
m.
PHO&FEKI
te««t*ctl Ocb*> i
Cvrt. *.« •••**•
Ti,Z*l?'£j£Z\r m £ ~
<mt i »«i ics «♦»£» »» 4 »■'»(*»* «l
tain OHIT it ASHfMtW
<7*
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
The Inky Way.
Henry Gordon Lobban, of N.S.W.,
a son of ex-school inspector Lobban,
mistook strychnine for headache powder
the other day, and died of the error
within an hour. Up to last April
young Lobban —he was under 30-—ran the
Maclean Advocate. Belling out there, he
became editor of the Casino Express, and
w r as toiling at that grindstone w’hen his eye
played him the fatal trick.
A veteran of the Inky Way, ,T. L. Wilson,
of Ivaiapoi (M.L.), dropped his harness the
other day after representing the Christchurch
Press in the North Canterbury district for
51 years. He reckoned it was time he had
a rest, and no one is arguing with him about
it.
* * * *
“Space Rates*’: Whenever a leader-writer
wants to drive a point home, or requires
some intellectual fireworks to brighten up his
own dark effort, he interpolates a few lines
from the “works” of some poet—preferably
a dead poet, because dead poets are so much
more respected, especially if they died before
the present generation had a chance to know
them. The dodge is always successful,
because it appeals to the ear; and Man is
still savage enough to believe that all rhymes
must perforce be inspired and all poets
seers. I personally know several poets, and,
though they may be splendid song-makers,
they are the last human beings I would go
to for advice on any subject. What they
have said they have said musically, and the
music will carry the words down the years;
but the real working wise men are those
who express themselves in prose ; and prose,
is a perishable commodity, simply because it
doesn’t tinkle. If I desired to be long and
widely quoted, say on the subject of walking.
I wouldn’t set down my thoughts in the
unattractive manner of philosophy or
science. I would affect a superior attitude
and ring a sort of chime thus : —
THOUGHTS ON WALKING.
To progress through this world, my Brother,
’Tis best, you see,
Alternately
To place one foot before the other.
It sounds impressive, and yet it's just a
scrap of information treated by the Ella
Wheeler Wilcox process. Really, w’hen a
humble rhyme-tradesman like myself sees
how little real knowledge of life the practis-
ing poet has, and how much of that little
he is prepared to sacrifice in order to make a
weak tinkle at regular intervals, he feels
sorry for the future generations who will
quote him and try to order their lives in
accordance with his views. What sort of a
moral platform would we have had if the
framer of the Ten Commandments had been
under the necessity of rhyming?" And
imagine a rhymed Commonwealth Constitu-
tion or city by-laws chopped up into short-
lines of equal length and with the same
tinkle at the end of every second line !
Two items from the Federal Indepen-
dent of 15/9/’14, page 8 (the thing is
“printed for the Rev. A. Rivett,” at 3S-42
Oxford-street, Sydney) :—
We don’t know if this issue of the Federal
Independent will reach our readers intact. The 1
last number was considerably readjusted at the last
moment, and much matter in type had to be rejected,
with the result it was late in reaching subscribers.
The military censorship is now complete, and certain
things are taboo.
There is one thing the war has done: It has stopped
the Sydney Bulletin and other classics venturing
their vulgarities on the despised Japanese. The
“little brown men,” after all, are thorough gentle-
men—and chivalrous at that.
Now, what “vulgarities” done by Parson
Rivett in the Federal Independent did the
censor cut out? A preacher who says in
paragraph I. that the censor rejected much
of his paper, and declares in paragraph III.
that the “vulgarities” of another paper have
been “stopped” is an interesting person.
According to Rivett The Bulletin
expressed hostility to a race of “thorough
gentlemen.” and consequently had to calm
down. Which crowd of thorough gentlemen
was he throwing mud at when he had to
calm down?
* * * *
Two sons of the editor of the Maoriland
Methodist Times, Dr. Harold Williams and
Aubrey Williams, are war correspondents
with the Russian army for London Daily
Chronicle. Another son is with the M.L.
Expeditionary Force in Samoa, and another
has joined the Expeditionary Force in Aus-
tralia.
MUNITIONS OF WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cable last week explained that the authorities
in Germany, being short of lead, were entering the
newspaper offices and seizing the type and type-metal
for ammunition.
’Tis plain the cables have not told
One half the horrors of this war.
Though death has reached the young and old,
And towns are painted red with gore;
He’s lucky who an end has met
With bullet or with bayonet.
Think of the writhing soldier who
Is with a poem riddled through!
They’ve taken from the papers there,
To load their guns, the leaden type;
And someone’s darling, young and fair,
Will perish of a rival’s “tripe,”
Or, maybe, have his final laugh
Pierced by a comic paragraph,
While near him lies a hapless friend
To whom a full-stop brought an end.
We writers “kid” ourselves the pen
Is mightier than the sword can be :
But when it comes to smashing men
The double-leaded type for me 1
Though “killing” is my printed fun,
It’s much more deadly in a gun.
My essays, crammed with curious lore,
Might turn the fortunes of a war.
If leaders should be wanted, Ace
And Argus will supply enough ;
Or make the hated German rage
With solid Parliamentary stuff.
But when they end the Kaiser’s reign,
May there be found, imprinted plain
Upon his spleen in primer fine,
A clever epigram of mine.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
I
G
H
<1 o
G
R
A
D
E
I*ipGS, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
PIPES EVER
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
m case,
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/- each
(post free). '
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
j
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—-
25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free,).
Three Witches
VIRGINIA
(CARCTTES
J./MORRIS
&sonsL t
TOBACCOS.
“Sllliol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In ])lu°' or
CUt, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“IjOUUS” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
mmmm.
m
m
BSS
m&mm®
G
0
M
F
A
C
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ „ Real Morocco .. 3/6 «
„ „ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
~ „ Gazelle 5/- »
„ „ Velvet Calf 6/6 »
POCKET LIGHTERS.
fgj
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/> each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/_ 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
jjJLigi H&S&tsgP"
B
E
T
,T
E
R
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 0.8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hail
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams’s Soap —
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
fgj
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle .... 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case ...... 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches: CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
K.YNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
•22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne U Sydney.
BROOKS 8302 Light Road Saddle. Also 302 L for Ladies.
Only by possessing the BROOKS experience is it possible
to produce Saddles of BROOKS excellence. And
BROOKS experience is admittedly unapproached by that
of any other maker.
BROOK
OF ALL
DEALERS.
fgj
Fairbanks-morse
MARINE ENGINES
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start easily, run smoothly, develop full rated
power. Simple, compact. All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed Engines, 3XL
to 15 4 HP P ' Slow - s P eed Ezines, 7}f
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
Distillate. Stationary and Portable sizes
2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple,
compact. Two sizes. Will operate anv
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 VP.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
AGENTS—
Type ‘K
7i h.p.
w.n
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros.,
Perth, W.A.
SCHUTE, BELL, A. Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. • Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/G.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
1 ricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple-tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
M
a
m
m
Mr-BOOKSELLER to the commonwealth.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,’
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
■Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy Rivep 4s
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and lightning Oalculator, is. The Doctor, cures
tor all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made lasj - , Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is 2d, Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s " 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PEA IX HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE,
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS 1 REE 1 ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old. but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician.' Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning "mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women Doth in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA: address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Drivep„’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SMT’Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS AUVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Du. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \est Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Sd, 2s. How to Read Heads
Was. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted'.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com'
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).


m
St
First in
Everything
First in Purity
First in Efficiency
First in Quality
First in Results
First in Economy
And there are many other reasons why
Laxo-Tonjc Pills are first with the
hundreds of thousands in Australasia
who know their value and use them.
They immediately sweeten the stomach,
remove the sour, undigested and fer-
menting food and foul gases; take the
excess bile from the liver and carry off
the constipated waste matter from the
bowels. Then your stomach Trouble
is ended.
A LAXO-TONIC PILL to-night
will make you right by
morning.
UxoTomc Pius
I/- 2/-
Choose a “ Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—-each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
3
'Swan Safety'
Can't Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MArflE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE^
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FAIJKINER g- IECTBIC EQUIPMENT
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found fhe
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few:—
(11 It is easy to erect.
(2l Entire absence of trouble-
some line shafting.
(3) Independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
sited lighting.
'5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no v.bration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary-the Falklner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest,
cheapest and cleanest
power!
1
<Q
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequalled in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALRINER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
King Ullin’s Driving.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE roof was dripping in the wet.
The rain came down the whitewashed
wall.
What would a woman do but fret
Without her man at all?
King Ullin went to drive the cows,
He took a sword to bring them on,
A cap of steel was on his brows,
’Tis three days they are gone.
The cows of kings are ill to drive
When spears are thick along the hill,
The grasses on the low mounds thrive,
The ghosts walk grey and still.
“Now look out, Lona, from the door
And tell me what is it you see.
Is yon the coat your father wore
Comes round the rowan tree?”
“There’s no man by the rowan tree.
The rain is wet on all the land,
A sore, black day for men to be
With cattle in their hand.
“I’ll throw a turf upon the fire.
Put by your wheel; you’ve spun too long.
’Tis ill your eyes with thread to tire,
Whist to the wind’s queer song!”
She’s put her wheel against the wall,
She’s put her wool behind the press,
She’s let her empty hands down fall
Upon her yellow dress.
The dark crept slowly up the land ;
The wind was calling round the thatch.
There came a soft sound like a hand
Upon the wooden latch.
The door on leather hinges flew
As if an arm had pushed it wide.
The hot smoke down the chimney blew;
’Twas black as death outside.
She’s! looking hard upon the stool.
With parted lips she’s breathing loud.
Her face has gone as white as wool
That makes a woman’s shroud.
And down the dark a whisper went —
A small, thin whisper full of pain,
That made no words but past and sent
Cold sorrow through the rain.
The turf snarks ran about the floor,
A gust of wet came from the night;
Young Lona shut and latched the door,
The yellow blaze grew bright.
She’s lifted up her hands in fear.
“And is it Gaul himself?” she said.
“What grey man through the night came
here,
With blood upon his head?”
“Now, what grey man was here at all?
The latch is hasped, the turf burns well;
You saw the shadow on the wall,
You heard the drops that fell.”
She’s put her hands upon her face.
( The tears between her fingers shine —
“Och. jjirir I saw him in his place,
His eyes looked into mine.”
The day broke red with wind and rain.
King TJllin’s men, with heavy brows,
Bore Gaul of shadows home again
From driving of the cows.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Deserter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON his card was the name “George
Smith,” but not even the very junior
medical officer believed it to be the
old man’s correct name. It was a ’case of
hemiplegia. George Smith’s speech was
thick, and words came with difficulty. There-
fore the M. 0., who had an engagement with
the girl whom some day he hoped to marry,
merely inquired :
“Had a stroke, eh?”
Smith nodded.
M.O. <jvas one of the standardised
sausages turned out annually by the medical
schools, and made his diagnosis without fur-
ther .examination. Smith was old and use-
less, and there were so very many old and
useless people in the various wards. Be-
S 1 le bad an engagement.
“Case for the ‘poor man’s friend,’” he
observed to the sister, as he scribbled on the
case sheet the stock prescription, which con-
sisted of liydrarg. perchlor. and Pot lodid.
, ?. n i b e went and kept his engagement,
whilq George Smith, after 25 years’ work in
the bush, expostulated with the wardsman on
the subject of bathing. He (Smith) “didn’t
want a bath.” It would kill him. He was
not used to baths. _ The wardsman was obdu-
rate, and the patient returned from the un-
accustomed bath in unaccustomed pyjamas,
looking clean.
Hd lay back contentedly, feeling a vast
pleasure in the unexpected attention he had
received. It was good to be looked after.
fie was a typical French peasant. The
ruur on his round head was closely cropped;
the forehead low, the eyes beneath heavy
blows, suiall and bright. The nose was
stubbed, the lips thick, and the jaws heavy.
in the next bed was a pneumonia patient,
an old man, Emile Alphonse Bontille. He
was speaking with a queer detached air, in
broken English, of station life. Smith
looked at him curiously, and from him his
eyes travelled down the long ward. The
electric light was now burning, and he could
everything clearly. Everybody seemed
still and comfortable except Bontille. Smith
closed his eyes and thought how odd it was
that he should actually like a bath and a
clean bed . Just then Bontille began to
speak rapidly in French. Smith’s placidity
vanished. Something like terror came into
his eyes as he looked furtively at his neigffi
When the night nurses came on duty they
inspected their new patient, and extracted
with {difficulty some account of himself He
didn’t remember the date of his birth. Yes ;
1,0 but Smith was his English
i me. After much hesitation he said he was
born at Brest.
“Wouldn’t you like to see France again’”
one nurse asked.
“Yes,” said Smith, “but” Furtively
again he looked at his babbling country-
man s bed. He caught the words “Grave-
lotte and Le Mans.” He remembered and
became confused.
“Well, ‘but’ what?" persisted the nurse.
“I didn’t serve the country,” he said in
a thick whisper, hoping that Bontille would
not hear and understand. “Would they
now punish an old man, eh? I did save a
lot of money. If I was killed, eh? The
money would have been lost. I ran to sea
a “ r They wouldn’t punish an old man
after all these years, eh?”
The hurried sentences were hard to con-
nect, but the nurse was intelligent and under-
stood.
“No; they wouldn’t know you after all
these years. Besides, they wouldn’t punish
an old man like you. Go to sleep and don’t
worry.
This was meant as consolation, but senile
fear was still Smith’s portion as he heard
Bontille s talk of Germans and the Republic
and the great battles. He beat the bed-
clothes peevishly. After all, it was very
hard to be troubled by the thought that in
his youth he ran away from France with
his money rather than serve in the army
when his country called for him. He had
no quarrel with the Germans, he told him-
selt Probably, too, lie would have been
shot Instead he was now the possessor of
xoUU and a team of draught horses. Why
after all the years should he bother his
head about his lack of patriotism? Even if
he hadn’t run away, he alone could not have
beaten the Germans! Name of God! Was
it not absurd of him to think of it at all!
The pneumonia patient with his ravings
about Berlin and the Kaiser and the old old
war began to irritate the old man. Bon-
tllle h *^L fought ’ hut, then, did he now pos-
sess foOO and a team of draught horses?
Surely it was better to save so much than
be shot. True, the man in the next bed
was still alive, but George Smith was con-
vinced that he would not have been so for-
tunate. Name of God ! Why worry ! Had
he not £5OO. .. . All this absurd worrying
over Ins past came of hearing his own lan-
guage. He would go to sleep and forget
all about it. But, yes, he would like to see
I ranee once more before he died. Perhaps,
yes, undoubtedly, the nurse was right. They
would not recognise and punish him. This
comforted him, and turning his back to
Bontille, lie dropped off into dreams. He
didn't know anything of hemiplegia. He knew
that he needed a stout stick to help him
along just for a few days till he got better.
It was between his bed and locker, on Bon-
tille’s side. He must shift it to the other
side in case Name of God! He was
becoming as a child. The doctor would
doubtless cure him very quickly.
In a few days Bontille was better, and
to Smith’s annoyance he began to talk to him
in French. With stupendous cunning he
saw that if he spoke of the campaign Bon-
tille would find him out, so he explained
that during the war he had served in the
garrison at Brest. Bontille patriotically
cursed the Germans, and, as Bontille obvi-
ously expected of him, he stumblingly cursed,
too, a marshal named Bazaine, and many
other strange names. But, yes, of course,
Canrobert undoubtedly was a man! He
fixed the names carefully in his mind so as
not to be caught .tripping. Bazaine, Mac-
Mahon, Moltke and the others were care-
fully and accurately associated in the dull
brain with various strange places, such as
Sedan, Metz and so on, and as Bontille
showed not the slightest interest in the
doings of the Brest garrison, Smith felt
perfectly secure.
; The better Bontille grew the more talka-
tive he became. Smith was thankful for this.
It was better, to avoid accidents, for the
other to ..do all the talking. And, besides,
Smith’s halting speech irritated the fiery
Bontille. The friendship between the two
old men became the one amusement of fhose
in the ward who were not too sick to pre-
clude amusement in anything.
During the temporary absences of the
nurses,_ Bontille, contrary to orders, would
often jump out on to the cold floor, seize
Smith’s stick, and illustrate with feeble dash
some masterly thrust by which he had at
some battle or other torn out the entrails of
some thrice-damned German. And Smith
would twist his face into a vague smile of
what he hoped was enthusiasm.
Bontille became so excited early one very
cold morning, just as daybreak came through
the windows and the trams began their up-
roar, that he stayed too long thrusting imagi-
nary bayonets into the stomachs of thrice-
damned imaginary Germans. He was caught
by the nurse, put back to bed, and the bayo-
net confiscated till required by Smith.
Subdued he listened to the nurse’s lecture,
while Smith dropped off to sleep. As he
was being sponged he admitted that it was
unsoldierly to disobey orders; however, he
felt perfectly sure that he wouldn’t get a
relapse—that is, if relapsing would cause
the nurse any trouble. This with a smile
that would have disarmed anyone but a tired
nurse. She told him of Smith’s notable
attention to hospital discipline. “And he
never was a soldier, either!”
“Not a soldier?” asked Bontille, looking
over at his sleeping countryman. “He
served at Brest—in the garrison.”
“No; he ran away without serving. And
now the foolish old man’s afraid to go back
to France because he thinks he might be
punished.”
When she woke Smith for his sponge Bon-
tifle satd casually: “My friend, was it 1875
or 72 you left home?”
Smith’s memory was at fault. When was
that war with Germany ? He ran over the
mentally-recorded names—Bazaine, Mac-
Malion. Moltke, Metz, Sedan No. Name
of God ! He had forgotten to fix the year of
the war.
“Perhaps early in 1870— just after the
war, suggested Bontille cunningly.
Tes, that is it,” said Smith vaguely
But thanks,” replied Bontille coldly; and
all day he kept his back turned to Smith.
At night the relapse came.
Wh 6 n’ th / risi ?? temperature belched
truth a blast of mephitic abuse in French
Bontille cursed his cowardly countryman
ferociously. He shrieked contempt. He
him W fmr Ched moUth t 0 s P jt Awards
him. Never were curses more effective.
(Continued on next page.)


EVERY PICTURE TELLS A STORY
Of Weak, Ailing Backs and inactive Kidneys j of irritable,
Dropsical, Nervous People who need Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Have you Backache, Headache, Gravel,
Dizziness, Sleeplessness ? Are you
Bloated and Sallow ? Losing appetite
and Weight ? Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are specially for Kidney Troubles.
But the best story is not the story in
the picture, which tells of pain and
disease —it’s the story told of relief by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
And that’s the good thing one is
always hearing about the genuine Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills —men and women
are continually praising them.
For Doan’s Pills are an honest
medicine, because they are recom-
mended for one class of diseases only,
viz., Kidney and Bladder diseases, such
as dropsy (bloating), gravel, stone, lum-
bago, backache, rheumatism, and all
uric acid complaints.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"Every
Picture
Tells cv
Story.”
\
S'
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. Lewis Williams, cnr. Wilson Street, and Botany
Road, Botany, says: “I was a great sufferer with my
back, and the pain was at times so bad that I have had
to leave my work and go home. I also had to walk
about in a bent position, as I could not straighten with-
out increased suffering. I used various preparations;
but only got slight temporary relief. Reading of cures
effected by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I decided* to
try them. One bottle eased the pain, and the second
completed my cure. This did not happen yesterday, but
about seven years ago, and I have had no sign of back-
aihe all that time; so it is not mere temporary relief,
but a perfect cure. I am always advising my friends to
use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and take this oppor-
tunity to publicly recommend them.”
Three years later Mr. Williams says: “I am still well,
and have been free of backache since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me 10 years ago.”
Mrs. Emily Osborne, store, 101 Foster Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says: “Some years ago I had a very bad
attack of disordered kidneys, and, as a result, suffered
agony from backache and rheumatic pains all over my
body. I was often so bad I could hardly get about the
house, every movement giving me increased pain. My
rest at night was very disturbed, as it was impossible
for me to lie in one position for any length of time, owing
to the nagging pain in my back. My ankles and arms
swelled a good deal, and were very painful if I touched
them. I had no energy for anything, and was really far
from well. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were recom-
mended to me, and after taking a course of these grand
pills I was completely cured. It is eight years since I
was cured, and I have had no return of kidney trouble
since.”
Two years later Mrs. Osborne says : “Ten years have
elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me,
and I am still well —a fact that speaks volumes for this
splendid remedy.”
fg
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
jfg
Smith shivered beneath the bedclothes.
When he heard that on his return to France
he would be spitted on a hayfork and
toasted over a slow fire; that he would be
disembowelled and his entrails given to the
dogs; that he would meet death by guillotine,
poison, rifle; by every unspeakable torture
specially reserved for cowardly deserters by
the military authorities in France —Smith
groaned and a sweat broke out all over his
body.
At 3.30 next morning the sleepy M.O.
turned up. Bontille was now silent.
“Better tell Tommy,” said the M.O. “He’s
done.” Then he returned to bed, and Tommy
was --told to stand by for a trip to the
morgue.
But Bontille was far from needing Tommy
just then, though the nurse had given up
efforts to save her patient.
The visit of the doctor had been the cause
of a few seconds’ lucidity in Bontille. In
that few seconds he had determined revenge
on his shirking countryman. With the
nurse away from the bedside this was his
opportunity, and in a fresh paroxysm of
delirium he jumped out of bed and fell on
Smith, thrusting his gnarled fingers beneath
the rolls of fat below Smith’s chin and
clutching the short, thick neck. And such
are the strange manifestations of delirium
that Bontille’s last words were not French,
but of the Bush :
“You cow!” he snarled ferociously, as he
centred all his strength in his hands.
The nurse and Tommy got Bontille back
into bed again. Then without question he
was in such a condition that supposing it
possible, considering their nationality, he
would soon be in Heaven with the thrice-
damned Germans whose entrails Bontille
had so badly damaged when he followed
Chanzy’s army
Smith was completely paralysed.
“Bettor send him to another place,” said
the M.O. “He’ll do no good here, and
ive’ve. no room for incurables.”
Smith was therefore removed, and in the
now infinitesimally small part of his brain
which worked sanely he was thinking of the
£5OO and the team of draught horses for
which he had lost his country.
The Curator of Intestate Estates eventu-
ally got them.
O. H. LORD.
From the Paint Frame.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ANTONIO ROMAGNOLI, known in the
crude humorlessness of the theatre
as “Steakandaoyst,” rested the
straight-edge on the balustrade of the
paint frame, and suspended his work of
ruling blue-grey lines on a “backing” intended
to represent galvanised iron, while he looked
down at the naked stage and the rehearsal
that proceeded thereon.
He watched the wild upheaval of the
violent first act of that untamed melodrama,
“The Girl Who Missed the ’Bus,” laughed
contemptuously at the blare of the orchestra
that was necessary to give the situation its
value and atmosphere, turned to his fellow
sploflger—a Cockney to whom “The Girl
Who Missed the ’Bus” represented the last
word in dramatic art —and said: “It is notta
the teatro to which I have the customment.
In the paint frame of the Teatro della Seala
of Milano —it is there I paint for the
greatta opera. The last quadro I shall do
for the stage in La Seala is for Donizetti’s
‘Linda di Chamounix’ —painta the snow,
painta the ice, painta the Swiss Alp—very
fine.”
“Ah, ’nah,” said the Cockney splodger. “I
know all abalit that. Easiest thing in the
world to paint. Just plenty o’ white, an’ a
bit o’ blue, an’ cut cloths like them there
white petticoats wif insertion.”
“It is not the easy—it is difficile —that a
man shall naint the snow, the ice, the Alp !
He shall be artist first. But this —this
straight-edge—this iron corrugate—ball! It
is the blue, the black, the straight line like
the clerk in the butclier-shop shall rule on
the bill of meat. Bah! I am artista! I
like not the straight-edge.”
He had dipped the brush into the large
mugs used as paint-pots in all the theatres
of the earth ; but he did not proceed to draw
more straight lines on the canvas. While
he talked, he rested the arm bearing the over-
loaded paint-brush on the balustrade, and
gave to the stage below the paint that rightly
belonged to the canvas.
“Also, in Nuova York at the Teatro del
Guggenheim of Broadaway! Shall I painta
there the iron corrugate? Ma —non! I shall
there painta the scene molto artistic-a for
new opera of Mascagni—‘Guglielimo Rat-
cliff!’ Ecco! Fine new opera recitativo for
Guglielimo of ten sides, all recitativo, so fine !
So nice! Like this he go !”
He sang in the old Florentine bleat known
as “II Chevrote” :
Guglielimo de Ratcliff
A Londra del Ingulterra
Cantaro di Covent Garda.
A cry as of a man in violent agony rose
from the stage. “Who is stopping the re-
hearsal ? D—n! Is this a theatre, or a
surgery, or a zoo? Silence up there, and
put the dog out!”
Antonio was silent except for mutterings
of disgust to his fellow splodger—mutterings
of denial of surgeries, zoos and dogs, and he
was about to return to the straight-edge when
a feminine shriek that had become so natural
to the shrieker that it seemed to be merely
well rehearsed came from below, and the two
splodgers looked down to see an excited and
rather ancient leading lady gesticulating her
wrongs and crying for redress. She’ had
rested on a stage furnishing immediately
below the frame, and Romagnoli’s brush had
unloaded its paint on her hat.
"The clumsy wretches !” she cried. “Mr.
Mainwaring, you’re the producer, and you
can’t protect me against these dirty painters !
The feathers cost three pounds originally,
and ten shillings for curling last week ! Is
there no redress from that cad? It was in-
tentional, Mr. Mainwaring! It’s all jealousy,
and that Daeo has been put up to do it!”
Antonio, stung by the “cad” and the
“Dago,” looked over the balustrade, and said
with an air of winning sweetness: “It is
mistake, signora! lam notta the cad—notta
the Daig! I am great artista in Milan —
and this is accident for the poor fezzer.”
“He is insulting me, Mr. Mainwaring! He
called it ‘a poor fezzer’! He did it pur-
posely !” .
“Notta the purpose, signora—notta the
purpose ! It is that the brush shall have too
much the paint—it is that I shall hold the
brush over the side and the paint shall
caduta —in the English language, the paint
fall. Ecco —per illustrazione !”
It was unfortunate that the illustration
repeated the offence; but the leading' lady
dodged in time, and immediately flew into a
wild raae in return for her escape.
Aghast at his unintentional repetition of
an accidental offence, Antonio dumbly list-
ened to the insults Mr. Mainwaring roared
in a bull voice, and trebly painful because all
the company laughed in a way that seemed
to the splodger criminally cruel.
“You ! Up there with the mo’ like a horse’s
tail. Splodger! I'm talking to you! What
the !!! do you mean by dropping that ???!!!
on a !! ! leading lady, you !!! ? anar-
chist from Monkeyland? If you don’t keep
your filthy priming on the !!! canvas, I’ll
put a V 7? !!!! tail on you, and make
you play the !!! juvenile lead on a !! !
organ!”
“You shall snik so to me, per Baccho?”
“Yes, you peanut expert from !!! Napoli!
You low-down, fifth-rate !!! !”
The astounded Antonio broke in on him
and ran on till he par -d for breath. “Abba-
jatre! It is accident , but you make the
abusement not accidente! The lead’ lady
she has mettere tutto in abbandono—every-
thing is confuse —acamico calumnatore !”
The stage manager called to the trombone
man “What is that?”
“He say ‘cruel man—you —cruel slander
man.’ ”
“Does he? I’ll !”
But Antonio had got his second wind and
poured out his marvellous stultiloquence
again : “Ah ! taggliaborsa ! You spik me
ribaldieri bestiale !”
“He say,” said the translator. “ ‘you steal
the purse which is trash—you take from him
the good name with abuse of brute.’ ”
“I’ll let him see about his good name
when the scenic artist comes back !”
“Porcello lattante —impuro cattivo buz-
ziardano —great liar!”
“So I’m an impure great liar ! But what's
the first?”
“Porcello lattante—little sucking-pig.”
“Sucking-pig This is too funny! Let
him go on !”
“Ahbuzago terrible !”
“He say you terrible buzzard.”
. “He’s the finest curser in the world! Let
him go on !”
“Briccone stupido!”
“That means stupid blackguard.”
“I see —sing on, sweet bird !”
“Sanguinoso cannibale!”
“Don’t translate that! I understand, and
there are ladies present.”
“Sporco —* diabolico infernale carica-
ture !”
“What’s ‘sporco’?”
“Dirty.”
“Violente—-furioso —feroce —insensate tai j
fante!”
“Farfante is thief —no, caitiff.”
“Imbecilita —debolezza —ignorante —mimo-
desto —er —homo da niente !” ,
“A man of nothing, eh? But he nearly
fluffed that line. I wonder could he learn
the part?” .
“This teatro —so fine! I think not.
Burlesco Comica!”
“I told you that heavy scene of yours was
funny, Montgard!”
“Carneflce ! —boja!”
“That is hangman, Signore—he go too
f ar 5 *
“Not a bit—he’ll hang himself yet! Ah,
lie’s finished!” £
But Antonio, who had disappeared
the balustrade for a moment, was back to it
with another effort.
“You frikened to spik me back —you are
timoroso —you have of the pluck the palpi-
tation ! Ah ! abominable ! Cibo <li Cam—
V 9
“He’s getting over the odds now !”
“A-r-r-r-h. podesta!” And with that in-
sult he disappeared.
“He called me a mayor! That settles it
--he gets the sack !” , ,
Antonio had heard him and returned to
the attack with an air of much grandeur.
“Ah, Mistair manager of teatro: xou
shall give me the sack? Per Dio! 'o, you
shall near and be frikened !” f ,
“Goon! We want to be trikened. Were
laughing too much.” , , . ,
“You shall see I must notta be bruised
with the talkings! It is in Nuova York.
There I am the greatta artistm— paint the
scene for opera of ‘Guglielimo Ratcliff, tte
Mascagni. The manager of teaffro makea
the fight because I call him porcello lattante
—sucking pig an’ mare! We makea the
greatta fight—we accefare —we bite the
finger with the teeths ; we tear the eye with
the fingers; we accanare with the boots on
the shin —we cut deep into the shin’s flesh.
Our fightings is for the first place that lie
shall be addosso non avere danari—he shall
not money have, when I shall ask tor the
payament for the scene because he say it is
the damn bad paint. Ah. bad man. One
hour we fight!—one hour we keek!—we
bite!—one hour we accapigliamento. We
tear one another the hair. So is. Then. lie
keek me in -the faces ; he give, me to think
the caceiarefuori per forza —the knocka-the-
out! I rise up again so quick. I pull it
the whisk !—I tear it his clothes —I tear it
his shirt in two place! Then, per la gambe
della Madonna ! I have the success ! When
his shirt is tear, I see upon his breasts the
picture of the ship in full sailit is tattoo
on his breasts. I wait—till in little momen-
tum he forget his guard. I praya to
Heav—un’, then shutta my eye, stnka greatta
bigga terrible blow right upon. the tattoo-
ment! Thatta blow —per dio —it sinka the
ship! ! ! Now! Shall I havea the sack?
“You sacked?” gasped the manager.
“Come down here and we’ll write a part in
for you!”
I’m told that “The Girl Who Missed the
’Bus.” played as extravagant comedy, will
run for as long as Antonio Roma.gnoli every
evening shall sink the tattooed ship.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


IF THE TRANSMISSION MEDIUM Bl
A WESTINGHOUSE
SILENT CHAIN
(MORSE)
U!
as the power wastage due to
the friction of sliding surfaces
is eliminated by
The Rocker-Joint
which embodies the principle
of the ball or roller-bearing.
Write for Booklet B.M. 310 to
The Westiaghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane. Ooj\cOrd West, N« S, WaICS
New Zealand Agents: Phiiips & Pike, Wellington. [l
Have You Considered
BOUNDER RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
i
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne : NOYES BROS. LTD.
&•
Lime -fruit Juice.
Brings to your lips the juice
of the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT Is sold by all leading Storekeeper!
\\c
7m
What a Boy Says :
“I like Pemingtott-UMC arms and am-
munitibn because my Father has always
encouraged me to become a good shot.
He says it improves my health by keep-
ing me out in the open; that it makes me
alert and keen of eye, steadies my
nerves and teaches me self control. I
can shoot as well as any boy in my town
and better than many of the older people.
My .22 repeater is a beauty —light,
splendidly balanced and may be easily
taken apart for cleaning and carrying.”
Wide-awake Boys Everywhere Use
jfg
i
RemingtonrllMC
Remington Arms—
Union - Metallic ,Cartridge Co.
New York London
Catalogs fret
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
may be taken with a perfect sense of security because they are entirely
free from any injurious substance and compounded only from the
purest ingredients ofvegetable origin. Beecham’s Pills are accordingly
quite safe for everyone. This fact should be clearly understood,
because it is of great importance that you should have confidence in the
medicine you use. Proof of the valuable properties of this popular
preparation is supplied by an immense body of opinion, for Beecham’s
Pills have been in use for years in many thousands of homes, not only
in England but across the seas. At home and abroad they are esteemed
as the best Family Medicine to keep at hand for those common ailments,
soprevalentin these days, arisingfrom disordered action of the stomach,
liver & kidneys. Beecham’s Pills have a long and honourable record and
ARE A SEVENTY YEARS’ SUCCESS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/li (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
j
A SURE MOUSTACHE GROWER.
You can grow a handsome moustache if you use that wonderful preparation,
CAPILLARINE.
It is a sure hair grower, and develops the moustache in a fery short time.
Applied at night, before retiring—its use cannot be detected —does not
injure the skin—results are sure. .
TRY A JAR TO-DAY—-10/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG Sl AITKEIM,
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
DINNEFORD’S
DlNNEFORD'S
Magnesia
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
.
■
agents t or
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Thta Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/b.
fgj
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short ail
attacks of
SPASMS and COUC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
*tie cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold bv ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
■yOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
fgj
ockyei*
i
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Do You Need Money?
If so, write us and we will tell you how
you can make from
£5 to £lO per Week
We are manufacturers of the famous
“Davis” perfumes, soaps and toilet arti-
DIAMOND RAZOR CO F ULLVWAiMAHia
,M.i "CHICAGO.II.C. n I PRICE « i.OQ
E-YTRA NCiLLOW cnOUHO
cles, and we
need repre-
sentatives in
every com-
munity.
W e illus-
trate one of
our many
combination
boxes —very
popular sell-
ers. You
can make big
money by
selling these
boxes.
If you want
to establish a
business of
your own without investing much money,
where you can earn a good living and
besides accumulate a substantial bank account,
write us today and we will tell you how.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP COMPANY
Dept. EA-10, 222 N. Desplaines St., Chicago, U. S. A.


THE “TRIUMPHATOR”
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures yon are working with.
Illustrated Catalogue on application.
A. P. Greenfield 8 Co. Ltd.
189 George
BRISBAN
A
*
A
Ask
for
Ask
for
Hardie’s Genuine
Used In place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF.
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
*
THE
PURE
SPIRIT
SCHNAPPS
The
Importance
Of
Efficient
Insinuation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest economy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleaded to mail you along with samples.
NE WALL’S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE S SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc-
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “Nelyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work,
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
“A Fan for Every Service’
fg
& Exhausters
You should not consider tine installation of any exhaust system
until you Have investigated the BUFFALO. It is unequalled in its
adaptability to your needs, in its efficiency, and in its ability to
render you superior service.
There is no centre division for leaKage of air in a BUFFALO they
Have permanently air-tight shells, and the Fan and Shaft can be
easily removed by taKing off either one of the side plates. No
need to dismantle the Fan.
Call and insped our stocK—all types for varying conditions
Agents — —or write for full illustrative Catalogue.
LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers (Si Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
WELL-BORING PLANTS
TRACTION and NON-TRACTION.
For Artesian Water Wells, Mineral Prospecting:, Oil & Gas Wells.
NOTE—No. 5 Machine drilled 564 feet and made 4 moves in 74 hours.
DOWNIE DEEP WELL PDMPS.
Designed especially for Lifting Large Amounts of Water from Great Depth.
No. 5 for 1000 Feet.
No. 25 OIL RIG for 2500 Feet.
N.
C D
Sydney 8 Melbourne
