

7
the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. 6. WATKma SZ> CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On nil Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N‘s-W* MONT DE PIETE D SI C? UP
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
EUSTAOE BENNETT, General Manager.
llT»ii?BlMnmigl
3E310 3B Jg*. R'TC\
2HK
aa
jjadleg’s Orient Rotel.
Richardson's
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY,
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
Connoi^tooj
A
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
\
> Take It back,
imusthavc-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple brand
fdhfd
f
SPRINGLESS
LOCKS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
hfd
"All -
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily, after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
An
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
hfd
BENSDORP'S
Royal
Dutch
I
SUPERIOR
everyway;
- Afc^S
gs^agSglvfc*
cs*S«
„»>•»*«
C& A ®
;> ”.y
\&g
niTinnnm—■«63:
»n WSrJ
nnp
\v;
«1
=|i
"i?S?k^@l3lSSl l
_ " * «l
==ll»'«
, ifaF^<SmS^fCZ
r>«.
White
Roofing
Do You Want the Best Roofing the World Can Offer You?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Challis House, Sydney.
O. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager. AGENCIES EVERYWHERE.
Do you want a roofing: that will exclude the heat and cold, the rain and wind and Rive
that satisfactory service that every man requires; a roofing that is “good” to look upon,
that will not chip, crack, burn, nor rust; that will outlast all other, roofings, and never give
you any trouble? Then get White Malthoid Hoofing, There will be no cause for after
regrets. You will be getting a roofing that is absolutely dependable and perfect in every
detail. You can have Samples and free Booklets for the asking.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
t
5 . V. O.
Ul Of STATES
CHOICE f m .
BACOlTandil^
Telegraphic Address-SACOK, Murarrio, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system*
VTARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney ,
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1793.]
[Thursday, June 25, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW NOVE
Mulford’s Coming' of Cassidy.
Dehan’s Cost of Wings.
Edgar: The Pride of the Fancy
AVason: And Then Came Jean.
Spearman: Merrilie Dawes.
Gibb’s Madcap.
Wmiams ; The Thing in the Woods.
Hays Gillespie.
Dowdall’s Book of Martha.
Lerrigo’s Doc Williams.
Norton’s The Mediator.
Locke’s Fortunate Youth.
Jesse’s The Milky Way.
Hungerford’s Little Corky.
De Morgan’s When Ghost Meets Ghosts.
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PHOP'T'Y, LTD., 23S PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Beautiful presents for ladies
and GENTLEMEN: Ladies’ Hand-
bags for shopping, Q/6 each; Ladies’ Sewing
Baskets, 6/6 each; Hoyley Mats, 10/- dozen;
all different colors and designs.
Chinelas or Bath Slippers. Made from
Hemp fibre, heavy soles, will not slip on wet
surface, neither absorb water, 5/- pair,
i Covers, for Carriage or Automo-
bile Seats, 10/- pair.
Cigar and Cigarette Cases, 8/6 each.
Excepting Chinelas, these articles are all
hand-woven from Bury Palm fibre. Each of
these speaks for itseif, and makes a very
choice Gift. Satisfaction or money back.
Post paid.
Pattineell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
THE TRAVELLING RUG
PAR EXCELLENCE.
“fl O S G I E L”
RUGS.
Entirely made from
High-grade Wool.
Handsome in ... .
Appearance and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Obtaina b I e
at all th£
Best Shops. [2
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol TootH Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing and Preserving the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but
cleanses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the teeth
can do, or will do, without affecting the Tooth Enamel.
BECAUSE the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preseiving the teeth.
Sold at Chemists and Stores, price 1/6.
[3
WOW TO USB TUB POWOIM*
■
The Ted Page
Wells and the World
An Englishman Looks at the World, with
a blind eye to Australia. Either Australia
isn t in the world,'or H. G. Wells doesn’t
think it should be. That a mind of the fine
calibre of Wells should ignore the contribu-
tion Australia offers to the future is a mis-
fortune to Australia, to Eor in-
stance, in his discussion of the Hare system
of representation he does not mention its
existence in Tasmania, nor the curious dead-
lock that has happened thei;e, due to a minor
defect easily remedied. And there are many
other sociological experiments caught in the
wide sweep of this-modern and enthusiastic
mind that could be ‘studied in actual being
by a visit to Australasia. A first-hand know-
ledge of the Commonwealth would have
saved Wells from that picture (quoted be-
low) of M.L. “consumed by hate and fear
of Japan ’; it would have modified the state-
ment that “Australia and M.L. even now
gravitate to America [by which, presum-
ably, Wells means the United States], for
books and thought.” And his discussion
upon the endowment of motherhood should
surely have included some reference to the
“Baby Bonus” and the remission, in
N.S.W., of income-tax for the baby-owner.
A personal acquaintance with Australasia
seems a necessary qualification for a writer
whose province is the future.
Yet An Englishman Looks at the World
(Cassell, per Dymock’s Library) forms
another chapter in the mental autobiography
of the most flexible, most pregnant brain in
modern English literature. The scope of
these essays of recent years, thus collected,
is evident from his useful summary.
Bleriot arrives and sets him thinking. He
flies, and deduces certain consequences of
cheap travel. He considers the King, and
speculates on the New Epoch; he thinks
Imperially, and then, coming to details, about
Labor, Socialism and modern warfare; he
discourses on the modern novel and the pub-
lic library; criticises Chesterton, Belloc and
Sir Thomas More, and deals with the Lon-
don traffic problem as a Socialist should.
He doubts the existence of Sociology, dis-
cusses divorce, schoolmasters, motherhood,
doctors and specialisation ; questions if there
is a People, and diagnoses the political
disease of our times. He then speculates
upon the future of the American population,
considers a possible set-back to civilisation,
the ideal citizen, the still undeveloped pos-
sibilities of science, and—in the broadest
spirit-—the Human Adventure.
d*
The mental dullness of the Englishman
makes Wells fear for the future of England
He suspects that mental muddiness even in
the navy.
The struggle for naval supremacy is no :
merely a struggle in shipbuilding and expen
diture. Much more is it a struggle in know
ledge and invention. It is not the Powei
that has the most ships or the biggest ships
that is going to win in a naval conflict.' It
is the Power that thinks quickest of whai;
to do, is most resourceful and inventive
Eighty Dreadnoughts manned by dull men
are only 80 targets for a quicker adversary.
Well, is there any reason to suppose that
our Navy is going to keep above the general
national level in these things. Is the Navy
bright?
As was to have been expected, Wells has
anticipated Percy Scott in his doubt about
the Dreadnought.
We go on launching these lumping, great
Dreadnoughts, and I cannot bring myself to
believe in them. They seem vulnerable from
the air above and the deep below, vulnerable
in a shallow channel and in a fog (and the
North Sea is both foggy and shallow), and
immensely costly. I would as soon put to sea
in St. Paul’s Cathedral. If I were fighting
Germany I would stow them away....and
take the good men out of them and fight
with mines and torpedoes and destroyers and
airships and submarines.... I find myself
awake at nights, wondering whether the real
Empire of the Sea may not even now have
slipped out of our hands while our attention
has been fixed on our stately procession of
giant warships, while our country has been
in a dream, hypnotised by the Dreadnought
idea.
d*
In a thoughtful article, “Will the Empire
Live?” Wells notes one lack to our unity.
The Empire has no common enemy to weld
it together from without.
It is too usual to regard Germany as the
common enemy. We in great Britain are
now intensely jealous of Germany.... not
only because the Germans outnumber us,
and have a much larger and more diversified
country than ours.... but because in the last
100 years, while we have fed on platitudes
and vanity, they have had the energy and
humility to develop a splendid system of
national education, to toil at science and
art and literature, to develop social organi-
sation, to master and better our methods of
business and industry, and to clamber above
us in the scale of civilisation.... It is per-
haps well to remember how insular—or, at
least, how European—the essentials of this
quarrel are. We have lost our tempers, but
Canada has n0t.... Canada has no natural
quarrel with Germany, nor has India. - nor
South Africa, nor Australasia. They have
no reason to share our insular exasperation.
On the other hand, all these States have
other special preoccupations. Maoriland, for
example, having spent half a century and
more in sheep-farming, land legislation, sup-
pressing its drink traffic, lowering its birth-
rate, and, in short, the achievement of an
ideal preventive materialism, is chiefly con-
sumed by hate and fear of Japan, which in
the same interval has made a stride from the
13th to the 20th century. Now, Japan in
Welt-Politik is our ally.
The Empire of the English people -is an
accident. It, was made for them by their
exceptional and outcast men, ahd in the end
it will be lost, I fear, by the intellectual
inertness of their commonplace and dull-
minded leaders. Empire has happened to
them and civilisation has happened to them
as fresh lettuces come to tame rabbits. They
do not understand how they got, and they
will not understand how to keep.
Evidently the English working-man is
rapidly following the evolution of the Aus-
tralian working-man.
The working-man of to-day reads, talks,
has general ideas and a sense of the round
world ; he is far nearer to the ruler of to-day
in knowledge .and intellectual range than lie
is to the working-man of 50 years ago. The
politician or business magnate of to-day is
no better educated and very little better
informed than his equals were 50 years ago.
The chief difference is g01f....0ur present
labor troubles are unprecedented, and they
mean the end of an epoch. The supply of
good-tempered, cheap labor—upon which the
fabric of our contemporary ease and comfort
is erected—is giving out In the place of
that old, convenient labor comes a new sort
of labor, reluctant, resentful, critical and
suspicious.. . .The wages-earning, laboring
class, as a distinctive class, consenting to a
distinctive treatment and accepting life at
a disadvantage, is going to disappear.
Wells suggests that a complete change in
our handling of the labor problem is neces-
sary . before any solution, any permanent
solution, is in sight. Under what conditions
does a man work best, work most, work
more happily ? Suppose it turns out to be
the case that a man always following one
occupation throughout his lifetime, working
regularly day after day for so many hours,
as most wage-earners do at the present time,
does not do nearly so much or nearly so
well as he would do if he followed first one
occupation and then another, or if he worked
as hard as he possibly could for a definite
period and then took holiday? Wells adum-
brates the possibility of a social reorganisa-
tion that would exact from every man
merely a few strenuous years of high-pres-
sure service, and a labor conscription that
would take a year or so of service from
everyone in the community, high or low.
“I believe that in making labor a part of
everyone s life and the whole of nobody’s
life lies the ultimate solution of these in-
dustrial difficulties.” He wants a compre-
hensive National Plan
In the far time to which. Wells prophetic-
ally points there will be no eight-hour day,
no early closing, no guaranteed weekly half-
holiday. There will be no necessity for these
temporary palliatives.
If we rescue ourselves as a community
from poverty and discomfort, we must take
care not to fling ourselves into something
tar more infuriating to a normal human
being and that is boredom. The prospect
of a carefully-inspected sanitary life, tethered
to some light, little, uninteresting daily job
or eight hours of it, seems to me more
awful than hunger and death For my
own part, if I were sentenced to hew a
thousand tons of coal, I should want to get
ar it at once and work furiously at it, with
the shortest intervals for rest and refresh-
ment and an occasional night holiday, until
I hewed my way out, and if some interfering
person with a benevolent air wanted to re-
strict me to hewing scwt., and no more and
no less, each day and every day, I should
be disposed to go for that benevolent person
with my pick. That is surely what
every natural man would want to do, and it
is only the clumsy imperfection of our social
oiganisation that will not enable a man to
do his stint* of labor in a few vigorous years
and then come up into the sunlight for uood
and all. ...
No class is going to submit permanently
to modern labor conditions without extreme
resistance, even after the most elaborate
.babor Conciliation schemes and social
minima are established. Things are alto-
gether too stimulating to the imagination
nowadays Of all impossible social dreams
that belief in tranquillised and submissive
and virtuous Labor is the wildest of all No
sort of modern men will stand it For a
time, indeed, for a generation or so even, a
labor mass may be fooled and coerced but
in the end it will break out against its sub-
jection, even if it breaks out to a general
social catastrophe.
Jft
Passing over sound pronouncements upon
the endowment of motherhood and upon
divorce, we come to the “disease of parlia-
ments”—party government, created by the
obsolete method of election still in use in
Australia, because it is controlled by its
own creation—party government. A coun-
tiy will elect all sorts of different people
according to the electoral method employed.
We have not popular government at all - it
is government by the profession of pol’iti-
cians; by party oligarchies; it is not repre-
sentative government. Wells gives a well-
reasoned support to the Hare system.
• A. . Rightful subject of discussion
is the possible collapse of civilisation. Why
shouldn’t it collapse? Wells defies any eco-
nomist or financial expert to prove that it
cannot. That it hasn’t done so in the little
time for which it has existed is no reply at
all. It is like arguing that a man cannot
die because he has never been known to do
so. Previous men have died, previous civili-
sations have collapsed, if not of acute then
of chronic financial disorders. A panic, like
an avalanche, is a thing much easier to start
than to stop. Previous panics have been
arrested by good luck. Supp'ose securities
began to fall all round? What would you
do if a slump went on continually—every-
where? Wells sees immediate danger in the
over-development of war and the modern
system of credit. Everything crawls for-
ward but the science of war ; that rushes on.
Every modern European State is more or
less like a cranky, ill-built steamboat in
which some idiot has mounted and loaded a
monstrous gun with no apparatus to damp
its recoil. _ Whether that gun hits or misses
when it is fired, of one thing we may be
absolutely certain—it will 1 send the steam-
boat to the bottom of the sea.
And, too recently for Wells to mention it
in his volume, comes the news of France’s
stupendous deficit, portending national bank-
ruptcy.
The following creeds were among the
most characteristic received :
“June T.’s” creed: —
I believe in myself and my friends, and that I
have no female friends. I believe in doing the
reasonable thing, and that I, only, know what is
the reasonable thing for me. I believe that parents,
relatives, friends of the family and other agled
persons do not know what is the reasonable thing
—for me. I believe that respect is due to no man
who cannot force me to respect him. I believe that
dogma is foolish, and the surf healthier than ill-
ventilated churches, and in winter that it rains on
Sundays. I believe I may love many times and much
at once. I believe it is my bounden duty to make
happy the man I want by getting him, and I further
believe that I shall marry-—but not yet. I believe
that in the pursuit of man and the nobler occupation
of making my “girl friends” appear dowdy, all things
are justified, even false hair; but I believe that rouge
is dangerous and powder a necessity. 1 believe that
nothing is sacred where there are three or more
gathered together. I believe that truth and false-
hood, faith and deceit, the good and the bad are not
fixed. 1 believe that what is true for me to-day
may not be true for me to-morrow, and so it is with
all things. I believe in comfort. I believe that
the nicest men have the worst reputations, that the
prettier a woman is the less brain she develops. And
I believe that lam not pretty. Further, I believe
that Australia and Australian men are individual in
their respective spheres. I believe that my taste can
be educated; that first I like men and then the
things that men like even unto being womanly my-
self. I believe also that I can be happy alone. I
believe that Ella Wheeler Wilcox is amusing to
read to someone else. And, finally, I believe that
my life is my own. I believe that it is possible
that I may sell it. I believe that I have but one
specific duty^—to bear children.
“jET.V’ creed: —
Before all I believe in me and my ability to judge
what I should and should not do. It is my dutv
to -mv neighbor, as to mvself, to enjoy iife by
extracting a maximum of freedom and fun. I believe
in the abolition of the simper, and that, unless a
fib is necessary, it saves’trouble to tell the truth. '
I believe in calling a spade a spade, but not in
painting that implement red and setting it on the
front doorstep, I believe in powder. Any'girl who,
in a sweltering, greasy summer, denies the use of it,
is either a liar, a wowser, an abnormality or a mug-
wump. It is the duty of every girl to train her
parents to have young heads on old shoulders, to
approve of the abolition of the chaperone, the insti-
tution of the latchkey for girls and a contempt for
that ancient frump, “Mother Grundy.” In relation
to the male creature- —I believe in men as pals, but
no pal makes a lover. Any sensible girl should be
too sensible to appear so in the presence of the man
she wishes to catch. It takes a large amount of
devilish—as opposed to divine —beauty to counteract
sense in a woman. It is advisable to know much
but absolutely necessary to cultivate the wide-eyed,
know-nothing, ivy-clinging mawly manner, that fas-
cinates men. Marriage also, I believe in, as an
anti-climax.
A further selection of creeds will appear
in the next issue.
— e ’ J
In The Athenaeum’s long notice of the
recent International Society’s exhibition in
London—an annual show that artistically is
more important than the Royal Academy—
the bulk of the criticism and appreciation
is devoted to George Lambert’s “Important
People.” The critic speaks of his “large
and handsome composition,” his “unusual
skill and care.,” his. “subtle feeling and
form.” But criticism is directed against “the
very sculpturesque treatment of a design
somewhat lacking in sculpturesque quali-
ties. “M ith all deductions, however, we
must do justice to Mr. Lambert’s picture as
a courageous and direct piece of work:
beautiful in color, and containing in the
figure of the woman a passage of assured,
yet delicate painting such as we rarely see.”
Such praise, from The Athenaeum, ‘is the
highest of praise. Yet Lambert, with
Luropean distinctions, is not yet even ah
A.R.A.
The Creed of the Australian Girl
I BELIEVE in Powder, Lip-Salve and (if
necessary) False Hair.
I BELIEVE in Being Kind to My Parents
—and Other Dumb Animals.
I BELIEVE in Clean Linen.
I BELIEVE in Being Dressed in the
Latest Fashion.
I BELIEVE in Myself.
I BELIEVE in Marriage.
Then, in order of diminishing importance:
I BELIEVE in Surf-Bathing.
I BELIEVE in Love.
I BELIEVE in Sports.
I BELIEVE in Australia.
I BELIEVE in Sunshine.
I BELIEVE My Life is My Own.
I BELIEVE (more or less) in God.
d*
These are not the Articles of Belief of anv
particular Ausgirlian: they are the Thirteen
Articles of Faith of The Ausgirlian. From
the enormous number of creeds supplied to
this Page in answer to our modest request
for a heart-to-heart confession of the beliefs
of the Young Things of Australia, it has been
possible, to tabulate the chief articles of the
Australian .Girl’s inmost convictions. Thus
the majority of the creeds mentioned
the first half-dozen Articles of Faith, while
the other beliefs were mentioned, in the order
given, in a large number of confessions. So
we have here a composite photograph of the
heart of the Ausmaiden. That is what she
is made of; that is what she is dreaming of;
that is what she wants; that is what she’ll
get.
Other Articles of Faith found support in
the following order: Having a Good Time,
Flirtations, Babies (in moderation), Look-
ing My Best, Doing- My Own Proposing, Cold
Baths, Art, The Abolition of Mrs. Grundy,
Books, Respecting My Parents, Music, Con-
forming (outwardly) to Convention, Not
Believing My Girl Friends, and Tango Teas.
Then there was a scattering of votes for
things ranging from Work to Bernard Shaw,
from Sowing (respectable) Wild Oats to
Government House, from The Bulletin to
Church, from Votes for Women to a Latch
Key.
Interesting creeds were sent in by “Dora
Delaney,” Agnes, Liz, Dot (who believes in
clothes, smart, smart, well-fitting and up-to-
date, and believes in having heaps, also in
the daily cold bath and lots of sweet-smelling
linen), Olive (who believes in Church, on a
wet Sunday, and surfing when the weather
permits, and in Marriage—as one cannot be
an old maid, and can crow over those that
are), Tina (who is the only competitor to
give a valid reason why she should have up-
to-date frocks, hats and stockings, “because
I mostly honestly earn the money that buys
them”), M.V. (who believes she must have
a number of girl friends, whom she does not
trust, and who do not trust her, .and must
spend all her time trying to excite their envy
and jealousy), Mab (who believes it to
be part of the scheme of things to find
her mate, and believes it preferable to
choose than to be chosen. Also, that she
should prevent the object of her affections
from erring in his choice by meeting him
half-way. Also, if necessary, she should
meet him all the way.), Mary (who believes
that her clothes should be simple but inspire
envy in her next-door neighbor, and that she
must not surf in her best costume on lonely
beac/hes and not sew on a button where a pin
would not show), and Felice (who believes
that she will some day marry and have a
sweet little home with babies —not too many,
of course, unless she lives away out in the
bush, where she will have no other kind of
excitement).


w a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EXCELLENCE and ECONOMY
No. 1914—Gun Metal Derby
Lace Shoe, nobby toe, punched fac-
ing and back, Cuban heel, welted sole,
very smart and reliable.... 16/9
In Glac6 Kid with patent cap—
-11/6, 14/6
14/9
in Patent, as above
*
No. 1015—Glace Kid Two-but-
ton Shoe, patent cap, welted sole,
Cuban heel, very smart appearance
and excellent fitter . .. 12/9
No. 1920—A1l Patent Derby
Lace Shoe, toecap, footform model,
large eyelets, medium Cuban heel,
pump sole, a comfortable Shoe, com-
bined with neatness and elegance.
Sizes 2's to 6’s 14/3
In Glace Kid as above 12/-
No. G33Bo—Melton Cloth Underskirt,
3 small Pleated Frills; Black, Navy—
Women’s, 7/11; 0.5., 8/11
No. 636—Nightdress, in Madapo-
lam, trimmed and inserted Em-
broidery and Ribbons —-
| Women’s
6/9
o. 2011—Bodice, in
Nainsook, trimmed Tor-
chon Lace and Ribbons —
Sizes 24, 26, 28, 30, 2/11
mm
isiiii
SSSf:
Ses£g
No. 173— N ightdress, >«
Mudapolam, trimmed and inserted
Swiss Embroidery, Beading and
Ribbons Women’s, 8/6
m
M ail iM'a
at
No. 3 6 o—Bodice,
in Nainsook, trimmed
Embroidery and Rib-
bons. Sizes 24, 20,
28, SO 2/7
No,. 1921 —Brocade Shoe, Silver
and Gold, Wurtemberg heel, selected
White Kid lining, dainty Ornament to
match, the latest in high-class even-
ing wear ■• •. 30/-
Postage Must
be added to
the Prices
Quoted.
o. 1917—All Patent Oxford
Shoe, toecap, punched golosh and
facing, welted sole, leather Cuban
heel, latest extended model.. 18/9
Other lines as above, in Tan Calf and
Glace Kid 16/6
No. 28 —Glace Oxford Shoe, pat-
ent cap, punched golosh, welted sole,
Cuban heel, large eyelets, very popu-
lar 14/-
Tn All Patent, as above... ... 17/-9
In Tan Calf, as above .. ... 13/6
is
I
C4l6 2—Melton Cloth Under-
skirt, fancy Accordeon Pleated Frill;
Black, Navy—
Women's, 7/6; 0.5., 8/6
No. 4237 —Moirette Underskirt,
Kilted and Tucked Frill; Black, Navy,
Vieux Rose, Saxe, Emerald, Wine, Drake’s
Neck, Grey, Reseda, Brown, Amethyst,
Bronze, Purple—■
Women’s, 6/6; 0.5., 7/6
No. 1919—Patent Golosh But-
ton Boot, Mat Kid leg', improved
creased vamp, pump sole, leather
Cuban heel, stocked in all fittings,
fancy buttons as illustration at-
* a( * ed ••••• 18/0
in Lace Boots to match .... 17/9
No. B4287—Black Sateen Underskirt,
lined, 3 small Accord eon Pleated Frills —
Women’s 12/6; O.S., 14/6
Xo. 1916—Tan Willow
Calf Court Shoe, high,
nobby toe, self bow, Cuban
heel, welted sole .. 17/6
Patent Court as above 17/9
fdh
Xo. 1922 —All Patent “Tango
Cothui'llC,” high Louis heel,
pump sole, very smart' appear-
ance, may be worn for street wear
or at any function 20/-
I
No. A4l22—Black Sateen Underskirt,
lined, Accordoon Pleated Frill —
Women’s, 7/11; 0.5., 8/11
No. B4lo9—Black Sateen Underskirt,
lined fancy Kilted Frill —
Women's, 6/6; 0.5., 7/6
mm
spiyi
A
I 'PS
No. 152—Nightdress, in Longrfoth,
trimmed aim inserted Kmbroidevy and
Ribbons Women's i 5 /It
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneld Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


fdh
WIUGHESTfIft
Win 'ches-ter rifle, or Win '•
ches-ter, ». (win'ches-ter).
[After Oliver F. Winchester (1810-
80). Amer. manufacturer.] A breech-
loading: rifle with a tubular magazins
under the barrel holding five or more cart-
ridges inserted one by one from the rear, the
bolt being worked back and forth by a lever be-
neath. It ** * was introduced about 1866,_and is in
world-wide use especially as a sporting arm.— (Webster’3
New International Dictionary.)
WEBSTER'S SAYS
WINCHESTER
Repeating Rifles Are u ln World-Wide Use n
This statement is authentic. It could also have said with
equal truth that the reason why Winchester rifles are “in
world-wide use” is because they have been found by sports-
men everywhere to be superior in construction, absolutely
dependable, accurate and strong in shooting and moderate in
cost. Another reason is that Winchester rifles are made in
all desirable calibers, from .22 to .50, and in various styles and
models, suited to individual tastes, and to all kinds of shooting.
Cartridges are also “in world-wide use. In
Winchester and all other rifles and in revolvers, they
can be depended on to give the best results. Made for all arms.
Dealers Everywhere Recommend the W Brand
DON’T TRY to ELECTROCUTE
YOUR SUPERFLUOUS HAIR.
ELECTRICITY ALWAYS STIMULATES HAIR GROWTH.
How to Kill and Dissolve Out Roots and All.
For the benefit of Sydney “Bulletin” Readers, Lady explains how she acci-
dentally discovered a new Absorption Process which Permanently
Removed her Hairy Mask after Electricity, Tweezers, Caustic Pastes,
Lotions, Powders, and all other Depilatories and Advertised
Remedies had absolutely failed to do anything hut harm.
By simply following; directions given below, any woman now has the means of easily
preparing and using in her own home this wonderful process, which has hitherto
been a carefully-guarded secret, known only to a few high-priced specialists.
T'ull directions are now made public for the first time.
All who are afflicted with superfluous hair
will be interested to learn of the amazing
discovery made by Miss Kathryn B Firmin,
who until recently was deeply humiliated
by these repulsive growths upon her face,
neck and arms. As the hair. constantly
became more thick and hideous she tried
every process and remedy advertised or
recommended, but found to her sorrow that
if any of these removed hair at all, the
effects were only
temporary, and new
growth soon appeared
stronger than ever.
Even hours of torture
under the cruel elec-
tric needle simply
meant pain, a sore and
blemished skin and the
inevitable disappoint-
ment. After spending
huge sums in efforts to
be rid of her terrible
and beauty-destroying
affliction, Miss Firmin
was about to give up
in despair, when by
chance she learned of
a means by which the
beauties of Ancient
Rome are said to have
permanently banished
superfluous hair. With
only a very slight clue
as to the nature of this
remarkable process
used in bygone ages.
Miss Firmin tells how
she set to work experimenting in her tireless
effort to wrest the lost secret from the past.
From the accounts of Miss Firmin’s discov-
ery. which have recently aroused so much
interest among women with superfluous hair,
there seems to be no doubt that at last there
has been found a way,' most radically diff-
erent from anything hitherto known, by
which any woman can now rid herself per-
manently, harmlessly and painlessly of all
superfluous hair growths by dissolving them
out of existence, root and nil. One part
of the process consists of a solution easily
obtained and prepared by anyone, which pos-
sesses the remarkable quality of being readily
absorbed by the hair so that it creeps down
to the root, dissolving as it goes, just as oil
creeps up a lamp wick. It is perhaps need-
less to caution any who may use this pro-
cess, which has so deadly an effect on the
hair, that it must never by any chance be
permitted to touch hair which is not to he
After she had endured for ten years the
humiliation of having a beard and moustache
like a man, and after electrolysis, pastes,
“lotions” and all other . methods had failed
absolutely, Miss Firmin killed all her super-
fluous hair in a single night by the harmless
new absorption process fully explained in this
article.
destroyed. In explain-
ing the process Miss
Firmin mentions that
it is perfectly neu-
tral and ineffective
to the skin, as anyone
can quickly prove hy
experiment; but she
disclaims all responsi-
bility for permanent
loss of dtvirable hair,
such as ey throws, .hair
of the hea\ .etc., to
which the process is
applied. Even though
the accidental applica-
cation be insufficient
to dissolve the. hair at
once, it will eventually
die, and fall out. and
there exists no known
means for restoring
life to hair roots thus
affected.
For the benefit of
any readers who may
be interested, and who
wish to be rid of
their superfluous hair by this remarkable
process, we are authorised to announce that
Miss Firmin has agreed to send all necessary
particulars regarding its preparation and
use to any reader sufficiently interested to
send her two penny stamps for return post-
age. Simply address Miss Kathryn B. Fir-
min (Suite 631. M.), 133 Oxford Street,
London, W., Eng., and full information will
be sent by return post in plain sealed enve-
lope. On account of the great demands upon
Miss Firmin’s time, she has stipulated that
this offer must be announced to positively
expire at the end of eight weeks.
Hr HE BEST STORIES written
1 LONE HAND each month.
in Australia appear in THE
Price Sixpence.
LOOK AT
ME!
I am a living witness to the marvellous curative
properties of
VITADATIO
Eighteen years ago I was declared absolutely
incurable by three of the finest physicians in New
Zealand. I had suffered for fourteen years from
HYDATIDS
and had tried all the ordinary advertised
medicines, doctors, and herbalists, but without
any permanent benefit, and at last underwent an
operation, but was then pronounced incurable.
I was advised to try VITADATIO, and as a
result of giving this now famous medicine a
consistent trial, was thoroughly cured. My cure
took place seventeen years ago, and I am still in
PERFECT HEALTH
and have introduced this great medicine through-
out the world, and marvellous cures have been
effected by Australia’s Great Remedy in all
countries.
pp>
In these enlightened times everyone knows that disease attacks the system owing
to a poor quality of the Blood, and as VITA D ATI O is a natural herbal blood maker
it has successfully cured :-r-
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CHEST TROUBLES
BLADDER TROUBLES
SKIN DISEASES
you
rone- J^ rt ‘ CU ' arS anc * testimonials ; state how you suffer, and 1 will give
FREE ADVICE. VITADATIO is sold by Chemists and Stores.
S. A. PALMER. 439 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE,
VIC.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o*U‘l*S
Indulge the Children
to-day , and every day, with
Bird’s Custard. It is so pure
and digestible that it never
disagrees, and so nutritious
that the children thrive on it.
Birds
the Perfect Custard !
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
6s s.w.
POST FREE.—A Valuable Recipe Book
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
sent, on receipt of address, by


Benger's Food is
universally recommended
by medical men.
For use during illness and
convalescence.
For weakly and over-growing
children.
As a supplementary food in
malnutrition, and for all
cases of dyspepsia and
impaired digestion.
fdhfd
Food
For Children,
INVALIDS and
the Aged,
is comforting - ,
when other foods
cause pain. It is
the most easily
digested of all
foods, but is not
pre-digested.
i
r
PM
MNcr^iw;
4
179 A
BengeFs Food is sold by
Druggists, etc ., everywhere,
BANGER’} FOOD.TTD.
MANCHESTER, ENG.
Branch Offices —
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street,
SYDNEY (N.S.W.)
117, Pitt Street.
Canadian Agents—
National Drug and
Che ' ical Co., Ltd.,
34. Ft. Gabriel Bt.,
Montreal,
and Branches
throughout Canada.
. Query : “ How did you
first come to use Pebeco
Tooth Paste?”
Answer: “My whole
family, you mean. It’s this
way! Upon leaving the
dentist after a recent call,
he was insistent that I use
Pebeco Tooth Paste-*-said
it was the scientific prepara-
tion of a celebrated German
Chemist—that there really
was no dentifrice quite like
it because it hygienically
revitalized the entire oral
cavity and prevented ‘Acid-
Mouth’—the cause of 95
per cent, of all tooth decay.
P€B€CO
TOOTH PASTE
“ I followed his instructions and found
the Dentist was right. Pebeco Tooth
Paste does purify and refresh the
mouth. Pebeco Tooth Pasti does
stop ‘Acid-Mouth.’
“Naturally, wife and children triedit.
Lik : it ? They too have ‘ got ’ the
Pebeco habit.”
Send 3d Stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid-Mouth.” Of
all Chem sts.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
MILNERS' SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
I
n d
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
BRISBANE : Webster & Co.. Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Ri<rg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
HE LONE HAND, Bound Volume, New Series.
No. It—including Colored Covers —IS NOW
.HEADY. Orders for same will be treated in order
of priority. Price: Bound Volumes, 7/6; Binding
Covers, 2/6.
Abondon
Hospital Nurse
Praises and redommabids
P>T;VK]
■
m
T
m
.NuriPß
Kerr
Late Cf and QtjyAHogpfeateXONDON.wrnteSj
July 9th, 1913.
Dear Sirs, —I am pleased to bear testimony to the merits of your “Bonninjr-
ton’s Irish Moss,” which, personally, I have proved to be a valuable and safe
remedy for all bronchial and throat affections. t . ,
I have never failed to recommend it to my patients and friends, m coughs
and colds, as I deem it a most valuable preparation. (Sjard.) NURSE KERR.
hfd
RUNKENNESS
SECRETLY
CURED!
Drunkards can now be cured in their own homes without their Emowledge.
No matter how lons they have been drinking, Golden Specific will cure
them permanently. It is tasteles and odorless and acts quickly. Guaranteed
harmless.
FREE
SAMPLE and Book, giving full particulars, also testimonials, will
be sent on receipt of 2d. stamp to pay postage.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO. (Dept. B 2013), PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
hfdh
5^
f I
w
A WOMAN'S BIRTHRIGHT!
DEVELOPED
BUST!
Every woman can have a perfect figure. A deficiency in bust is
readily corrected by Dr. Fallierb’s Flbsh-FodD treatment. The best
evidence is that of those who have used it. It is never-failing. See
what MRS. K. WINGROVE, of Gympie, Queensland, a skilled nurse,
says of its efficacy: —-
“After leaving off your treatment I waited several months
to see if the results were permanent before writing you, and
I now wish to say that I think the treatment is absolutely
marvellous. Before adopting it I was, only skin and bones,
but now I am one of the best walking advertisements you
could have. It did all you claimed for it and really more,
and the results were startlingly ahead of my fondest expec-
tations. My health and appearance have improved most
satisfactorily, and I now thank you for urging me to have
the treatment.”
We haven’t room to giv*»vou more letters here like this one, but we will send you scores of
them upon request. We possess thousands of grateful testimonials.
Many cases gain as much as 51b. a week, and improvements up to as much as ten inches
have "been made in the bust measurements. Guarantee given in every case.
Put up in tablet form', it is pleasant to take, and-palatable. It leaves no unpleasant after-
effects, and the results are permanent and lasting. It can be taken secretly.
Free SI lust rated Book ! Free Trial Sample I
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenua-
tion “Lovely Women.” No matter where you live we can treat you successfully by post. All
correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely covered and free
from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation whatever to buy because
you send for a sample. Call if convenient. Lady attendant. Hours: 10 to 4,30. 11821$
FALLIER E FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 Ash Street, Sydney
KNOWLEDGE, IS POWER
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
Canillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the means
of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth, alter all other preparations
Peakman of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful case. His hairdresser tells mo
he had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, he has
got a splendid growth of hair. , ~ _ '
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly bald, has now
come back to its usual growth.”, ,-,. , ,
Mr. Sutherland states: “I had only a little down on ray head when I commenced to ■ use your
SPECIAL P ill VSENE and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.
' Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Lotion, , one at
njo-bt and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Sliailipuna. \
Price (with postage, two months’-treatment) : Victoria, 12/-; four months, 22/6. \ Other
States, 12/C and 23/6.
Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion the
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shailipuna.
Naturaline is a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. lc acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectlv harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Hair.
No] 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black; Extra Strong for very Black Hair. t
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other -States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.!
TOBACCO KILLS!
m
9
*3
0
vf-
'JZ
Face to Face with Death !
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet Testimonials etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURL.
Mr 11. Smith, oi Pari: Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, hut since takinn your sample, of lobacco
Specific 1 have never had a smoke.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
107 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, is.
P\GES FOR E-VERYWOMAN is a fea-
* ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but- ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
seud you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with palling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
LL AU'STitALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Beading Boom at the offices. 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home -papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BUL LETIN.]
Greyelitfe.
Greycliffe, laid in a slumbrous hollow
Set like a gem on the harbor’s rim.
With fair, green spaces and glimmer of sand :
And fleeter far than the eye can follow
The silver feet of the winds that skim
O’er the breast of the bay to the heart of
the land !
The bay, like a curving pearl-shell fluted
At edge where the wreathM ripples break,
Is wrought in opal and mother-of-pearl;
And beyond, where the dolorous rocks .stand
rooted
Impassive and sombre, the waters make
A hyaline green as they rear and curl.
Greycliffe, tender and gracious and mellow,
Dreaming there in the light of the sun,
Govered and clad in his glamorous sheen!
The bed of the creek is lush and yellow
With flowering cress ; and shadowy run
The patches of blue-grass in with the green.
Greycliffe, Greycliffe, the season passes!
Will you remember when we forget
The splendid passionate ichor of Spring?
The long embrace in the cold clean grasses?
When mouth and body and spirit met?
The sheer delight of a kiss’s sting ?
Greycliffe, Greycliffe! When we no longer
Are moved to rapture at Spring’s, swift
birth.
From leafy stirring to vernal fret —
When Death and the fates thafi Love prove
stronger.
When all things fade that we loved, of
earth
Will you remember though we forget?
N.SW.
MANIN.
Ballade of Amber Gladness.
The heavens leak like a busted gamp
That’s served in many a bar-room fray ;
The world looks glum and its feet are damp ;
Drab is the earth and the skies are grey!
A letter has just arrived from May,
Who —need I tell you?—has turned me
down !
All ballade heroines act this way !
What matter, though, while the beer is
brown ?
Sorrows and duns on my doorstep camp ;
I know the latter I cannot pay.
The oil is dry in my midnight lamp;
Drab is the earth and the skies are grey!
But mirth and gladness across the way
Are kept at the sign of “The Haggard
Clown.”-
Where the slate will scowl till Judgment
Day!
What matter, though, while the beer is
brown?
A pawnshop ticket, a penny stamp,
A cork, a garter, a damaged eray —
But these I own, and my trusty gamp !
Drab is the eartli and the skies are grey!
Yet are there wenches as fair as May;
And love, while a trull is on the town,
Can still be had by the man who’ll pay !
What matter, then, while the beer is
brown ?
L’Envoy.
Though drab is the earth and the skies are
grey,
While your pipes burn bright and the boys
are gay,
Who’d envy the king with his golden crown l
What matters a d —n while the beer is
brown !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
The Lover’s Lexicon.
I send you flowers fresh plucked to-day,
Their petals moist with dew,
And they will say what I would say
If I were nigh to you.
If you should strive in vain to win
Their message, little one,
Then turn and find their meaning in
The Lover’s Lexicon.
For there, set down since ancient days —
By lovers understood —
Each petal is a perfumed phrase,
Each flower a painted mood.
For sweet thoughts purple pansies are:
When lovers, sighing, fret,
That uncouth fate has crossed their star —
Behold the violet.
The laurel blooms perennial
To crown the victor’s head ;
The lily is a spirit tall —
Pale Purity, ’tis said.
The poppy is a flower of trance —
Of trouble, well-forgot;
A blue, small bloom’s significance—
It is forget-me-not.
Some day. pere-'.ance, anon, anon,
When time reveals their grace,
Within the Lover’s Lexicon
New flowers shall find a place.
Then bright Australian birds shall be
Enlinked with passion-hours,
And moods of golden ecstasy
Grow perfumed by our flowers.
The waratah for valor then
May be a synonym—
The floral symbol of brave men
Whose praise the nations hymn.
And when (as wise foreseers think)
Dread shapes of war shall start —
The wattle, as a golden link,
Shall bind us heart to heart.
Enough... .enough—one symbol old
Shall speed my tale to y0u....
I send you roses, Heart-of-Gold,
Though you should send me rue.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


£
p
To know their fine flavor and delightful
aroma is to prefer them, therefore stait
to-day smoking
aron
CIGARETTES.
They will satisfy you in all your moods*
In Turkish or Virginia. All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
$ a Plant that
will make Electric
Light for YOU. -
It does away with the costly methods of run-
ning wires from the town supply—it provides
the way for every country resident, shop-
keeper, public hall, etc., to make their own
light at little cost. This
III
“Lister-Bruston” Automatic Electrio Lighting Plant
soo^as^vou 6^ turn S on de thp er ifo-l,?/ a ti 1Cally • ready , fo , r connecting with the liouse wiring, and as
current. * 1 tle engine and dynamo start automatically to generate th*
\ou don’t need to be an Electrician to use this Plant. Let us tell you why.
AGENTB
N.S.W.— W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street Svdnev
VIC EE SUT^FPr^ , n C i l i < lMM fc l\P o l ?. S^ N ’ LTD " Creek Street Brisbane.
& ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne
SOUTH AUSTRAL^ —CLUTTER BUCK BROS., Adelaide.
Practical hypnotism
Mesmeric Theories and Biological Practices, by Comte
Saint Germain, with 30 Illustrations. By means
<wjhis remarkable Book anyone may become
Oulled hypnotist and exercise this strange in-
fluence over others. The first chapter explains
bo* everybody may hypnotise, the second
describes the method of hypnotism, and so on
through 264 pages, concluding with an expo* '
jSltion of curing diseases by hypnotic influence, i
Mailed anywhere for 2/3, or with Hypnotic Disc, 2/9.
Tile Union Co„ 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
fdh
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE-
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, postetl 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
l] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
m
jm&mm
-
a •
The Song that
Reaches the Heart
In fact it reaches all our hearts—especially when they
accompanied by hungry appetites and the near approach
are
of
Then is the time we most keenly appreciate the satisfying
songs of
“REX” BRAND PRODUCTS.
With the inviting fragrance, the tasty zest which appeals to the most
critical, and the wholesome nourishing after-effects there are indeed
no goods like “Rex” Brand.
For a quick meal there are no goods like “Rex.” You’ll find them no
trouble at all. And you 11 say v o u never tasted anything more
tempting. 6
“REX” CANNED DELICACIES ARE •-
“Rex” Ham Pate, Mlb. tins,
“Rex” Veal & Tongue Pate. % lb. tins,
“Rex” Pork and Beans, 1M lb. tins,
“Rex” Lunch Tongues, in jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Pigs’ Feet, in jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, soz. tins,
“Rex” Pork Brawn, lib. tins, and
“Rex” Brand Lard, for all cooking purposes,
Ask for “Rex” Brand at your Grocer to-day.
in lib. prints.
Foggitt, Jones 8 Co. Ltd.
Carers of “REX” HAMS anil BACON.
Packers of “REX" DELICACIES.
I
i v
m-
Warm Overcoats
... for ...
Winter Touring
YVe now have on hand one of the Choicest
Selections of Motor Overcoats that has ever
been brought under your notice.
The range comprises some beautiful pat-
terns of Scotch Tweeds, Cheviots, Friezes and
Duffles, both Fleece and soft leather lined.
DARK GREY DUPPLE, fleece lined 687-
Leather lined 957-
CHOICE DARK SHADES in thick
WOOLLEN TWEEDS, with
Warm Fleece Lining 70/- and 90/-
A Few Special, High-grade Coats,
of Thick Woollen Frieze, with
detachable, super-grade Leather
Linin S> at 6 and 7 Guineas
W e invite all Motorists to call and inspect,
but, should you be unable to do so, we would
forward, Carriage Paid, one or more Coats to
select from.
am
m
&
mi
ISF?'.
v HUSB2
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George St., Syuney.
lOp Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
67a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
ON THE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price. 21s.
mm
'it J fSiIuSiUL
4
■izj
SK
The F.N. —a Car of
Splendid Service.
You can start out in the F.N. for the longest run on the roughest
country roads or just for a spin in the city with equal confidence
in it giving satisfactory service.
Once you have ridden in an F.N. you know that it will carry you
anywhere with comfortable, soft, springy motion—and that it is
safe, strong, powerful and speedy under every condition.
THE F.N. 16-24 H.P.
The Chassis frame is of pressed steel of substantial construction
and suspended on extremely long, flexible springs. The engine and
gear box are carried on a completely independent frame.
The Petrol Tank is fitted at rear and is pressure fed. The engine
consists of four cylinders cast en bloc; inlet and exhaust valves
interchangeable; pooling by Thermo-syphon System; Ignition by
Bosch enclosed high tension magneto. Carburetter of special F.N.
type designed to automatically supply correct mixture at all speeds.
Four speeds forward and reverse. Spare Sankey detachable wheel
with tyre complete. Body finished in attractive color. Supplied
with all auxiliary fittings and tools.
Call and examine this handsome, dependable car. Trials arranged
by appointment. Free Descriptive Literature on request.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.,
Motor Garag'e s
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Volj. 35.—N0. 1793.
THURSDAY, JUNE 25, 1914.
I’jtlCE Gd.
A STUDY IN FUTILITY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES:
j City 2389.
t City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 Gs. Gd. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
Dy sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Hales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. Ihomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
DC.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ji),l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News C°., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco j Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street.
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 15 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Ihe Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
h/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6jKn.
x thin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded, on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) .-—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bhoz.
1° 10oz., 2hd.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
ffl^&'zzZleZz/Ti.
THURSDAY, JUNE 25, 1914.
THE PARTY OF PERPETUAL
IMMOBILITY.
Tiie Liberal press outlined what it described
as the Cook Government’s elections policy
last week. It is a somewhat ingenious con-
coction, inasmuch as it makes a surface ap-
peal to several large sections. Many Labor-
ites, for example, will view it with a tolerant
eye, since it does not foreshadow the repeal
of a single important radical measure of the
past 14 years. When Andrew Fisher first
mooted his Australian Notes Bill no Liberal
criticism was too embittered and contemp-
tuous for use against the proposal. The pages
of Hansard are full of gibes levelled b.v
(Jook and his present followers at “Fisher’s
flimsies.” The flimsies are to remain. Ac-
cording to a Melbourne writer who should
know: —
The policy of the party with regard to the Com-
monwealth Bank was laid down in no uncertain
fashion. None of its powers is to be interfered with
except as regards its savings bank branch.
Liberalism had harsh words to say about
the Progressive Land Tax from the very
beginning, and the litigation which was
started in 1011 to establish the invalidity of
the Act enjoyed the hearty support of mem-
bers of the present Government. All that is
forgotten. The mad, capital-ejecting So-
cialism of yesterday has become the wise and
necessary law of to-day. If any exasperated
absentee landlord now tried to associate
Joseph Cook with a Town Hall meeting in
advocacy of the repeal of the Land Tax he
would get the same contemptuous response
as Colonel Onslow, M.L.A., would get if he
attempted at this time of day to organise a
Liberal rally against “Conscription,” or in
favor of paying a naval subsidy to Britain.
I isher’s Baby Bonus will continue to sap
the self-respect of Australian mothers.
Signed journalism is not to be abolished.
Ihere is no idea of repealing the Navigation
Act, a measure which Liberalism denounced
on Imperial as well as economic grounds two
years ago. In fact, nothing is to be done
in the way of righting the alleged wrongs
done to Australia by the Laborites. Cook
was, un to a year ago, in the position of one
who desired to get hold of a mismanaged
property and put it straight. It was his
habit, figuratively speaking, to tell his
friends that they fences were ruined, and the
dining-room of* the homestead an outrage,
and the kitchen a useless excrescence, and
the outhouses so many drains on the revenue
of the estate. He has had the place for 12
months. . The fences are as they were when
he went in ; the dining-room is unchanged;
likewise the kitchen and the outhouses
and all else. He now wants to be
allowed to run the concern for another three
years. But one of the first points which
he makes is that none of the institutions
which he used to describe as disastrous are
to be altered or even touched. The Land
Tax fence and the Navigation Act kitchen
and the rest of the menaces to the stability
of the property are to be left standing. Re-
form, if it is to come at all, must be looked
for in some other direction.
* * * *
The financial flower of Liberalism consists
of people who hate change. The proposals of
the. Cook Administration are right into
their hands, inasmuch as they amount to
nothing whatever. The first of them has
reference to the Trust problem. According
to the authority above quoted:—
Long party discussions took place on the most
advantageous method of dealing with injurious trusts
and combines. It was pointed out, ultimately,
that whilst each and every one of the party was
bitterly opposed to any trust or combine whose
operations might result to the detriment of the
public, there was little proof so far of any widespread
injury having occurred.
In that spirit Attorney-General Irvine has
pledged himself to frame an Anti-Trust Bill
—a Bill, namely, for an Act to scotch an
abuse which most of the members of the Lib-
eral party claim to be non-existent. The clearest
proof that Liberalism’s talk about anti-Trust
legislation is mere wind is to be found in the
fact that Liberalism is the sworn foe of Uni-
fication, the Constitutional amendments sug-
gested originally by the Fisher Government,
or any other change designed to give the
Commonwealth that control over the trade
and commerce of Australia which the British
Government enjoys in the United Kingdom,
and which practically every other civilised
Government, barring that of the U.S.,
possesses. The legislators of Washington
(U.S.) have been striving for generations
to evolve some form of anti-Trust legislation
which shall be effective to block the opera-
tions of the many injurious combines with
which their country is afflicted. They have
never succeeded. The success of the differ-
ent American anti-Trust Acts has depended
primarily on an almost unthinkable contin-
gency—that no one State in the Union would
ever be. selfish enough to aggrandise itself
by housing a wealthy combine at the expense
of the rest of the nation. In practice, of
course, the American Trusts have always
found State legislatures that were willing to
treat them as desirable immigrants. The
success of any anti-Trust measure which is
passed by a Liberal Government in Australia
under existing conditions will depend on a
similar contingency. For example, Queens-
land is at present housing the U.S. Beef
Trust. Queensland State Ministers have
spoken enthusiastically of this concern. They
regard it as an asset to the State, and a
blessing to pastoralists. Queensland, like
the rest of the States, has full control of its
own internal trade and commerce. The
Australian Parliament may pass 10,000 anti-
Trust Acts, aimed at the Beef Combine, but
Queensland is under no obligation to take any
more notice of them than if they were the
work of a legislature in Central Africa. As
there is little or no sentiment in business,
and as the operations of the Beef Trust un-
doubtedly mean big business for Queensland,
however much they are liable to prejudice the
rest of Australia, the Northern State may
be relied on not to oust the vast foreign
octopus. There is one way, and only one,
in which Queensland could be forced to dis-
pense with its tremendous paying guest, and
that is by an amendment of the Constitution
which would give the Australian Parliament
power to control the whole trade and com-
merce of the Commonwealth. The framers
of the Constitution intended that the Aus-
tralian Parliament should have this power.
All those Liberals who had given the matter
any thought—such as Deakin, Glynn and
Irvine —believed, till the High Court told
them differently, that Parliament had this
power. But modern Liberalism is unwilling
that Parliament shall have a power which
Liberals of 10 years ago fully understood
Parliament did possess. The reason is that
modern Liberalism is furiously averse from
motion of any sort —more specially forward
motion. It has no objection to anti-Trust
legislation which is bound, under existing
circumstances, to be nullified automatically
as soon as it reaches the Statute Books. But
at anti-Trust legislation plus Constitutional
amendments which must make the legislation
effective it draws the line. It is too sugges-
tive of something being shifted, and of re-
movals, and blastings, and quick changes and
other ventures which are hateful to an old
party that likes to be left alone to drowse
and brood.
* * * *
In addition to the above: —
(1) All the members of the Liberal party ex-
pressed themselves strongly in favor of a liberal
immigration policy. And it was decided (2) that
the Commonwealth should at the earliest oppor-
tunity assume the indebtedness of the States, but
nothing definite in this direction was settled.
Also preferential voting is to be introduced
for the Representatives and proportional vot-
ing for the Senate, chiefly, one may assume
without undue cynicism, because the Cook
party believes that those electoral changes will
give it a better hope of success at the polls.
And finally something unspecified is promised
in regard to the tariff. If the Liberal party
came out with a clear assurance that, in the
event of its being returned to office, it would
proceed, without waiting indefinitely for the
possible recommendations of the Interstate
Commission, to rectify the more glaring of
Australia’s tariff anomalies, it would- merit
a lot of support on that issue alone. The
I isheb Government never had the nerve nor
apparently the inclination to make such a
move. As one horrible outcome of legisla-
tive weakness, or criminal folly, or whatever
it may be called, the value of imports to
Australia has more than doubled in the past
10 years. The Commonwealth wants immi-
grants if it is to remain white. Every
pound’s worth of goods which arrives from
Birmingham or Tokio or Chicago means that
a foreigner has done work abroad which an
Australian might have done at home. It
means that a foreign factory—possibly the
factory of this country’s future invader—has
enjoyed a lift which it would have been
sound sense, as well as 'Sopfiffi patriotism, to
■adimmster to a local concern ; and that sig-
nifies that an Australian factory is propor-
tionately less able to supply the immigrant
Caucasian with a job. Australia, like
America and like Germany, if it is to have
any future, must have a manufacturing one.
All the pastoral prosperity of the maddest
hide-exporter’s wildest vision will not supply
it with an army and navy worth mentioning
as a defensive force. And it will never enjov
manufacturing prosperity so long as it is
hampered with a bastard tariff which allows
about a ton of foreign-made articles to crowd
into the Commonwealth for every pound-
weight that is produced on the spot. Aus-
tralia is ideally suited for the manufacture of
apparel, yet the annual imports, under this
heading alone, amount in value to about 17 }
millions sterling. And manufactured metals
are imported to the value of 12 millions. The
lesson of it is that Australia is losing its
C u? ce " It: is dreamin g beneath the pleasant
shade of the foreign-trade tree, while the out-
side nations work. If there was the remotest
likelihood of the Cook party taking steps, in
the form of an instant and genuinely Protec-
tive tariff, to kick the slumberers into honest
toil, much might be forgiven. But the Cook
party is the last to be suspected of that sort
of conduct. It is foreign-trade to the back
teeth. And, furthermore, as already men-
tioned, it abhors any sort of violence. It is
above everything the party of vague, sooth-
ing phrases, the party which deprecates undue
haste, experimental measures, change, ad-
vancement, progress, or any other thing that
necessitates abrupt movement. To a country
which may have but a few years to prepare
for a life and death struggle, such an Admin-
istration amounts to a disaster.
THE SMALL-POX THAT WON’T GO
AWAY.
Small-pox continues to smoulder along in
Sydney, with occasional extensions to country
districts. The last month has shown an
average of two or three cases a day, and
outbreaks have been reported from Taree,
Glen Innes, Helensburgh, Scarborough,
Parkes and Campbelltown. The N.S.W.
Health Department scurries around in its
crippled way, and seemingly does all that
it reasonably can under its absurd and anti-
quated Act; but the daily string of cases
continues. Those who have any experi-
ence of fighting small-pox are unani-
mous in the opinion that prompt isolation of
cases and speedy vaccination and observa-
tional isolation of contacts are the only
effective weapons against it. Failing these,
the _ disease will go on, possibly for years,
until all the non-immune people have had it.
Under the broken-winded Health Act of
N. S. Wales the officers of the Health De-
partment have no power to isolate or vac-
cinate anybody. An individual with small-
pox might go and breathe all over Mr.
Flowers without the faintest risk of being
isolated, so far as any State legislation is
concerned. A continued procession of all
the plagues of Egypt could dog the footsteps
of Holman whenever he goes out to lunch,
and there would be no legal method of put-
ting them into an isolation hospital under
any State Act. They might be prosecuted
for exposing themselves whilst in an infecti-
ous condition, and fined £5, but so long as
they paid up they could go on indefinitely
haunting Holman and all his Ministry and
the Opposition and the Speaker and the
myrmidons who cut down figtrees. If the
procession walked into a school and blew in-
fection all over the class rooms and amongst
the children, they would be liable only to the
same old five-pound fine. Moreover, if any
Health Officer set to work and thereupon
vaccinated the school children to protect them
against the infection, he would be liable to
an action for assault, and might be cast in
damages. If the procession were arrested
and led off to an isolation hospital it
could kick up no end of a row for
illegal detention and false imprisonment and
similar expensive luxuries. The old State
Quarantine Act is obsolete, and in any case
it merely frothed at the mouth in the places
where it ought to have contained specific
powers for dealing promptly and effectively
with infected persons and material. Bluff
is really the Government’s only wea-
pon ; and bluff is too risky and too costly for
these enlightened days, when there is a
lawyer on every corner watching for a chance
to get a cut at a Government.
The crude fact is that the big Health
Department, over which Flowers presides
with so much dignity and so many outpour-
ings of all-embracing desires to give every-
body an opportunity of haying his appendix
cut out free of charge whilst he waits, has
to depend on the goodwill of the Common-
wealth’s Quarantine Service for the elemen-
tary power to isolate patients and contacts.
But the Commonwealth Quarantine Act is
not designed for -tackling shore outbreaks,
and obstinate persons are at liberty to refuse
protective vaccination until they are actually
landed at the quarantine station. Once
there, they can be fined £5 if they continue
to refuse. It is often too late then; still
if such persons develop the disease they are
at any rate prevented from spreading it.
If the State Act had to be depended on, they
could spread it where they chose. So far as
the notifications show, the disease in Sydney
is confined almost wholly to the congested
areas of Newtown, St. Peters and Erskine-
ville, and if the Holman party were to get
really busy with an effective Act, the trouble
would in all probability be wiped out in a
month or two. Suitable models are avail-
able in Westralia and Queensland, and a
level-headed draftsman with a pair of scissors
could collect what was wanted in. an hour
or two.
* * * *
The mildness of the present form of disease
is insufficient excuse for delay. The intro-
duction of a severe form —and Asiatic small-
pox kills about one in every four of its vic-
tims—would not alter the position so far as
the statutory powers are concerned, and until
the much-abused “embargo” was re-imposed
other States would be helpless against spread
from Sydney. The snappings and growlings
with which Commonwealth assistance has
been received up to quite recently, and the
late shameless attempt to repudiate payment
of the cost of maintaining patients and con-
tacts at the quarantine station, have 'not
tended to improve matters, and if the present
inertia continues long enough it is quite
possible that the Commonwealth will with-
draw all assistance. In any case, the arrival
of a vessel with any quarantinable disease on
board would necessitate emptying all con-
tacts out of the quarantine station, and if the
imported disease were cholera or plague or
yellow fever, the patients would probably
have to go also. Except for the loaned
Commonwealth powers—the least expensive
loan N.S.W. has had—the State has nowhere
to put them, and no power to put them any-
where. The other States are getting restive,
and, despite approaching Federal elections,
the “embargo” may at any time loom again
over the despairing heads of Sydney board-
ing-house keepers. A little alteration of
the type of disease and a few deaths would
cause a yell from all parts of Australia for
the close quarantining of Sydney in particu-
lar and N. S. Wales in general. If it could
not be shown (and on present evidence it cer-
tainly cannot) that the State Government is
doing all that can reasonably be done in the
light of modern knowledge to limit and eradi-
cate the disease, the Federal Quarantine
authorities would have no possible alterna-
tive to re-imposing all the restrictions of last
year. These were, at any rate, effective in
protecting the other States, and Sydney in-
terests would receive very little attention if
the public scare of last September were to be
revived.
* * * *
Doctors seem to think that the present
mild type is not likely to alter; but this,
after all, is merely an opinion, and does not
agree with recent Canadian and American
experience. In any case the continued
presence of small-pox in Australia is a re-
proach and a danger. Its persistence
for over 12 months in Sydney, without
any definite attempt to provide the necessary
legislation for its control and eradication, is
an ominous indication of what may happen
to Australia if the present system of dealing
with great questions of public health is per-
mitted to continue. It is up to Australia to
ask both parties at the pending Common-
wealth elections what they propose to do
about it. Our prospects of remaining a rea-
sonably healthy country would be materially
improved by the transfer to the Common-
wealth of all the more important public health
services, including all dealings with danger-
ous epidemic diseases; and as these services
are of no special value for vote-catching it
is not likely under the party system that the
States woull raise any particular objection.
Quarantine has already been taken over as
too important a matter to be played with,
and a comparatively small extension of the
machinery which is already required for
operating this could be made to include sev-
eral other of the really important health ser-
vices. And there is no country in the world
with greater need of a sound and healthy
population.
THE OVERLAND WIRE.
[FOR T HE BULLETIN.]
Half a mile of telegraph wire, bear-
ing intelligence, was a marvel in 1837;
and in 1914 the 2000 miles of Over-
land Territory line is still a wonder, little
as it is in the tale of the few million miles
of wire that nerve the world. It represents
the courage of the little-populated State
that initiated it, and the efforts of the men
who saw it through. Over the sands and
the hundred leagues of lawn starred with
lilac and amaranth, over stony rises and the
Mitchell and Flindfers grass plains with their
few hundred fragrant miles of hay, past the
rivers that lose themselves in the centre of
the continent, through great forests and
over h.gh ranges, it uncoiled itself as direct
as instinct.
The greater work began after the building
—the maintenance and the working. Out on
the plain is the galvanized roof of a repeat-
ing and maintenance station; and, for its
marooned maintainers for many a day, only
•the round voyage of the sun and the stately
procession of the stars. The nigger who
didn’t know and broke down the wire to
make spearheads and had to be corrected ;
the nigger who wouldn’t be friends and
dragged his toe-held spear within distance
for the womerah —he is either dead or is
harmless. But the loneliness of the life,
the procession of the days as regular as the
spokes of a wheel—these things remain.
day lon & the Personal messages of
life or death or hope or love or money trickle
from north to south and from south to
north; but in the early night and morning
the newspapers of Europe and the world
talk to the newspapers of Australia and back
again—the one sending news exaggerated or
emasculated b_y his prejudice or policy, and
the. other receiving it and using as much
of R Ms policy or prejudice desires.
Ihe repeating station’s nearest neighbor
may be 200 miles away; easterly there is
probably a cattle station within 40 miles;
westerly, maybe, no white men and few blacks
tor 500 miles. Look east or west and there
is but a vagrant bird or a basking lizard ;
for the energetic life of the white ants is
the “' mei ’Mianal termitaria, often
Zytt. high and more, their long axes in pre-.
cise magnetic north and south. The tele-
graphist sees the distant dervish dance of a
whirlwind on the plain revolving frantically
among the anthills. North and south these


anthills run to infinity, and the long line
of telegraph posts staggering in the heat
biur to the horizon. In that pure air of
lucent gold it looks as if the limit of vision
might be 50 miles away.
Mysterious in the strong starlight which
exaggerates their size the termitaria make
avenues in the plain. Then the avenues be-
come irregular like a necropolis of gi mts as
the moon rises—the big electric-white moon,
filling the night with light to overflowing;
and, cutting it in pin-point, the light of the
operator’s lamp.
Around the lamp play all the flying things
of plain and water ; jewel-eyed, green, black,
speckled, solid, mealy-winged, lozenge-shaped,
diamond-winged, scaly and diaphanous. A
regulation clock on the wall above the instru-
ment table, a gun and a pair of buffalo horns
on the wall opposite—to tell you that in this
t< rritory of distances there are jungles and
bulfalo wallowing delight in a 60in. rainfall.
Then Tennant’s Creek speaks to Daly
Waters, and the Katherine to Darwin, and
Obdnadatta to Alice Springs—dot—dash—
darli^-dot —dot —dot; dash —dot —dash —dot;
the ABO of the electro magnet and the
battery, spelling out the wishes, the lies, the
aspirations and superstitions of man.
* * * *
Flinders, the night operator, moved the
lamp and changed the orbit of the moths and
midges.
He received, in a silence broken only by
that little messenger and witness of brass
and steel, and became so absorbed in his
work that he did not hear the entrance of a
man, and suddenly started to see the new-
comer, a fleshy, fierce-eyed man, with a white
bush of beard, and whiskers and heavy ej o-
brows. lie was slowly recovering from a
long carouse at a camp 15 miles away, his
nerves all burred, aud on the surface, and
his head suffering torments. Flinders was
indignant at the intrusion, but the law of
the bush was to be observed, and he
smothered his annoyance, and made it mere
surliness.
“Hallo,” he said roughly. “What do you
want?”
The man rocked unsteadily. “Is this the
tely graft?”
“Yes. What do you want?”
“Mate, I’m broke to the wide.”
Flinders relented. “I can give you a bit
of tucker,” he said.
“I want money and rum, mate; I’m in the
’orrors. I’ve walked a long way, an’ I want
money and rum.”
Flinders rose and walked to the little
cupboard on the wall.
“Ah, mate, you’re a white man. I’m dead
heat —they’re long miles from Marandana,
long miles. Every one of ’em’s pulled out
like a jujube.”
He took the pannikin and drank, the vessel
chattering his teeth.
“Mate, you’re white. Can you do me a
turn? I want yer to send a wire to Melb’n’
—you write it.”
Flinders took a blank and pen and
waited.
“It’s to Bill Smithers, me old mate.”
“Where is he?”
“Sydney or Melb’n’ —I d’n’o.. . .Tell him
to send me ten pound.”
“What’s his address?”
“I d’n’o.”
The irritability of the lonely man re-
turned. “Oh, go and wash your face,” he
said. “Don’t waste my time.”
The drunkard persisted: “Can’t the elec-
tricity find out where he is? Go’n’ wire him
that poor old ‘Gam’ Webster’s at Dead
Finish—broke to the wide.”
“Clear out —you’re in the horrors.”
“Well, let me camp here- —I can’t be alone
—can’t be alone —can’t be alone.”
“You can do that. Spread your blankets
there in the corner. Now keep quiet.”
The telegraph ticked out its story,
the tape unrolled its long circles in the bas-
ket, and suddenly “Gam,” whose tortured
nerves would not let him sleep, broke into
wails of self-pity.
“Broke to the wide. Poor old ‘Gam.’ Oh,
ain’t I sorry for meself!”
“Oh, shut up.”
“Beg y’r pardon, mate.”
He dozed again, and the telegraph ticked
on. Suddenly “Gam” awoke with a jerk and
sat up. His quick ears had caught the hoof
of a cantering horse.
“It’s a ’orse.”
“It’s my mate —he rides here to see me
every night.”
“Beg your pardon, mate.”
The hoof beats came nearer, and stopped
suddenly as if the horse had pulled up with
a jerk. Then entered a tall, spare, young
man of very slow and quiet manner —a master
of horses, and as slow of speech as he was a
hard rider. He was Jim Tennant, the out-
station keeper at the lagoon, 10 miles away.
“Hallo, Mat,” lie drawled.
“Hallo, Jim. You’re in time to-night.
I’m only half-way through the Southern
news.”
Tennant seated himself near the table,
lighted the everlasting cigarette and drawled
“Let her go.”
The instrument ticked on. and Flinders
retailed the news as he received it.
“Australia wheat yield this year is over
70 million bushels.”
“Gam” Webster supported himself on an
uncertain elbow.
“Steamer Acacia gone down off the Three
Kinsrs —nearly all hands lost.”
“Poor blokes,” said Tennant, “it’s dashed
ouiet here in Central Oss, but I’d rather have
flies an’ big plains than shipwreck. It must
be a terrible thing to lose yer life.”
Some old memory stirred in Webster’s
fogged brain, and he burst into dolorous
song:—
For night an’ day they’re sadly waitin’
For the ship that never returned.
Flinders turned on him savagely and
shouted “Shut up” —and Tennant begged
the drunkard to “Give the ticker a chance.”
“Beg y’r pardon, mate.”
“Well, keep quiet. It’s rumored that
Chinese are entering Australia in large num-
bers by way of the North-west coast. The
Minister for External Affairs is consider-
ing.”
Webster was compelled to talk again.
“The Minister for Infernal Affairs is always
considerin’,” said he.
Both attacked him at the same moment.
“Beg your pardon, mate.”
“The Commonwealth Government has or-
dered two warships.”
Tennant objected to the severely busmess-
like nature of the news. “Never mind that.
Who’s been picked for the Australian
Eleven ?”
“I don’t know yet. The Commonwealth
Parliament opens next week.”
“Never mind Parliament. They’re only
after jobs. Who’s Premier now?”
Gam saw a chance to be informative.
The only politician he remembered was a
man who had died 18 years before, but Gam
gave his name triumphantly.
“ ’Enery Parkes,” he said.
“Go on,” said Tennant contemptuously,
“You mean Captain Cook.”
“Well, he was, any way,” insisted Gam
weakly.
“You never knew Henry Parkes,” said
Flinders.
“Diden I! I knoo him when he was two
foot high.”
“Oh, you’re mad.”
“Keep quiet,” said Flinders, recovering
again. “It is anticipated that the Govern-
ment will be challenged.”
“Governments is always being challenged.
There’s always somebody after a Govern-
ment.” The Operator agreed. “My word,”
said he, “with all these Parliaments, the
country ought to go to smash.”
Webster had thought out a platitude, and
now uttered it: “I b’lieve,” said he, snorting
through his white whiskers, “I b’lieve in
s’measures, not men.”
Flinders regarded him with contempt and
asked: “Who told you that? You never
thought it out of your own head.”
“Diden I? Diden I?” said the insulted
drunkard. “Why, in the year one thousan’
eight ’undred an’ seventy-nine, me an’
’Enery Parkes used to say it. ‘Mezzyers,
Gam,’ ses he. ‘Mezzyers, not men’ —in the
year one thousan’ eight ’undred an’ seventy-
nine ! Me an’ Enery Parkes.”
Gam now turned his mental attitude the
other way, and abandoned all belief in Parlia-
ments.
“Parliaments don’t matter,” he said. “It’s
good seasons what matters. Why, when
’Enery Parkes was Primeer the grass grew
like ’ell. Many’s the time I tied it over me
’orse’s wither —over the wither —me ’orse’s
wither.”
“I’ll send the Southern stuff through to
Darwin, and get my cables,” said Flinders.
“There might be something in the foreign
stuff.”
“Oh, I won’t wait,” replied Tennant ris-
ing—-“l’m off. Good-night, mate.”
Two hours later, the operator, having
finished work, became conscious of Gam
Webster’s snores, and his irritability taking
charge again, walked outside to feel the
night-wind on his face; the wind that made
of the lone overland wire a great seolian harp
singing to infinity.
lie marked the declining moon’s shadows
on the gigantic anthills, and turned to the
station door with the wearied, quiet resigna-
tion of a man hopelessly marooned.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Liberalism’s Menace for 1914.
The Cook Government has set up another
of those myths or illusions or false idols
by means of which it has made itself look
so foolish in the past. All the worn-old
cries that were directed against Immigra-
tion Restriction legislation, Compulsory
Service, Early Closing, Old Age Pensions
and every other social change of any size
are being used now to show that the prin-
ciple of Preference to Unionists is imprac-
ticable and ethically wrong. Premier
Denham, of Queensland (the State whose
patriotic Government regards the U.S.
Beef Trust’s arrival in Australia as a bless-
ing—for Queensland), announced last week
that if Preference came “the community
would be no longer a democracy but a mad
autocracy”:—
All that Australia had contended for under the
glorious Union Jack would disappear. That symbol
was being insidiously undermined, etc.
And the S. M. Herald (20/6/T4) went
even further than the wild and muddled
Denham by claiming definitely that if pre-
ference was introduced “our Defence policy
must go, and with it our proposals for trans-
continental railways.” The electors might
be impressed by extravagant howls such as
the above, bad not a thousand similar pro-
phecies been made by the same people for
party purposes, and, in due course, shown
to be idiotically wrong. The glorious Union
Jack has been regularly dragged by Liber-
alism into every political dog fight of recent
years. The very Defence policy which the
Herald now fears will be destroyed by the
introduction of the Preference principle was
condemned by Cook and his present col-
leagues during the Dreadnought campaign as
an affront to the Flag. There is a wearisome
sameness and a lack of originality about
these forecasts of doom which inspire deri-
sion. As a matter of fact, Preference has
got to come. It is as inevitable as any
social reform of the past 10 years. Given
the arbitration system and Preference
logically follows. The chief weakness of
arbitration as a strike-averter has always
been its inability to penalise the employee
who has flouted the authority of the Court.
It is easy to get at an employer who frac-
tiously locks his men out. His property is
there to be levied on, in the event of his
refusing to pay whatever fine the arbitration
Judge considers that he has earned.
But the contemptuous worker, who may
or may not be a unionist, is in a
far more satisfactory position. He is
too numerous to be gaoled. He is elu-
sive in proportion as he is obscure. And.
above all, he rarely has any assets that may
be seized in satisfaction of the Law’s claims.
More especially is this so in the case of
the youthful, irresponsible bachelor-worker,
who is, in the nature of things, the readiest
to down tools and flit from the scene of
trouble. A first effect of the establishment
of Preference will be to give the employer
something to levy on. AVhen every worker
is a unionist, and the union funds are wait-
ing to be impounded, upon an award of the
Arbitration Court being disregarded by the
men, union officials will think twice before
they call a strike, and the workers will think
many times before they respond. Prefer-
ence will admittedly strengthen the unions.
But it is against human nature that it
should have the effect of turning them into
so many corporate bushrangers. Moderate
prosperity rarely has that effect. At present
the great body of the workers have little or
nothing to lose, and many of them are corre-
spondingly casual about their civil obliga-
tions. When the whole of them are union-
ised they will have a very great deal to lose
should they elect to defy a Court of Caw.
Peter McGregor, who was a shrewd
Broken Hill magnate in his day, established
the fact that Preference to Unionists is a
valuable principle from the point of view of
the employer. Liberalism will come to appre-
ciate the same fact in a year or so. Mean-
while, as is its banal habit, it condemns the
system, which it is inevitably destined _ to
cleave to, as an underminer of the Union
.lack.
The Campaign Against the Inevitable.
Every now and again the members of the
Australian Peace Society—who, by the way,
are mostly Quakers and Colonel Onslow —
leap into print with arguments to show that
compulsory military training is wicked,
“un-British,” derogatory to the moral fibre
of the nation, and useless from the stand-
point of defence. Also, those who are inter-
ested in the immigration movement hear
periodically of efforts to defeat their ends,
made by plug-hatted enthusiasts in London,
who attend immigration meetings and way-
lay members of the audience and explain
that in the Commonwealth young men are
deprived of their liberty for years at a
time, and submitted to unspeakable hard-
ships in a “conscript army.” Despite these
and numerous other organised attempts to
kill it, the compulsory service system con-
tinues to forge ahead. In fact, with the
exception of Quakers (amongst whom non-
resistance is an article of faith) and cranks,
there is hardly a soul that has a word in
favor of its abolition. Why this unanimity
on the subject of a policy which, on the
surface, has nothing whatever to render it
popular? The explanation is that Aus-
tralia has come to realise the peril in which
it stands, and when that happens to a self-
respecting white nation, no Peace Society
can prevail against the resulting defence
movement. A nation’s taste for compulsory
service is found to vary throughout history
in almost exact proportion to the danger in
which it has stood. In France, after
Neerwinden, 120 years ago, the Jacobins
found it easy to persuade Carnot to intro-
duce a form of conscription of a hitherto
unheard-of severity. But when the French
arms began to be victorious everywhere, and
the dread of invasion passed, a reaction set
in, and with it a modification of the compul-
sory-service laws. The historians are pretty
well unanimous on the point that it was the
undermining of the French army by the
exemption system —an arrangement which
enabled well-to-do meji of all classes to avoid
service by the payment of money-—that pro-
duced the disaster of 1870. For many years
onwards from that date no defence burden
was too heavy for France. To-day there are
signs of another reaction, due to the fact
that for a number of reasons the country
considers itself safe. Prussia gladly accepted
universal service after its experience of the
French Revolutionary wars ; and from Jena
till the defeat of France 64 years later
there was hardly an audible protest on the
subject. Despite the growth of a revolu-
tionary Socialism, which approximates to
Anarchy, and is accordingly violently hos-
tile to any form of armaments, and despite
abuses in the Army itself, Germany is still
favorable to compulsory service, since the
horse-sense of the nation understands that,
so long as Alsace-Lorraine is held, con-
scription . is Germany’s only insurance
against a ruinous shock. The United King-
dom has recoiled from conscription, as the
continent of Europe understands the term,
not because such a system is inherently
“un-English”—as the humorless local anti-
Defenceites put it—but because the nation
has had reason to regard the burden as
superfluous. Latterly, however, by reason
of the development of the flying machine
and the expansion of Germany, the old con-
fidence in regard to the impossibility of
foreign invasion has weakened, with the
result that a movement in favor of conscrip-
tion is rapidly growing in popularity. In
the Balkan States war is so chronic that no
nation is ever safe from invasion. And
there conscription is taken to with such
enthusiasm that the peasants train for hours
after mass on Sundays. The U.S., on the
other hand, would rend the Government
which foreshadowed a compulsory service
Bill. The citizens cannot believe that their
national life is threatened. The utter hope-
lessness of the Australian anti-Defence cam-
paign, both here and in Britain, arises from
the fact that the Commonwealth considers
its position to be much the same as that of
France when the “la pa,trie en danaer ” cry
was raised, and of Germany when the
“nation in arms” movement was begun. One
of those national tides is running which all
the Quaker argument on earth cannot stem.
♦ •
Peacock’s Prophetic Laugh.
Peacock’s return to the Victorian Premier-
ship has been foretold of late by his _ re-
newed tendency to attract public attention.
There was a significant revival of the koo-
kaburra cackle —the noise with which he
forced himself into notoriety when lie was
a young member of the A.N.A. looking for
a Parliamentary opening. The laugh at-
tained its loudest at the beginning of the
present century when its successful ex-
ploiter was Premier; but in 1902 the owner
“took the knock” from Iceberg Irvine, and
for some years thereafter his cachinnations
were of no importance worth mentioning.
Indeed Peacock seemed to have lost con-
fidence in his old advertising medium. He
emitted sounds of artificial merriment occa-
sionally ; but the press rarely heard them
and never spoke of them, so he ceased to
“roar with counterfeited glee.” Then, just
when the weird thing had been forgotten, it
was resurrected, and for some months past
it has been heard bidding again Tpr notice.
A fine opportunity offered on the last night
of Harry Lauder’s season at Melbourne
Princess’s. Peacock was there, pleading
his loudest for recognition. He cackled
until the performer on the stage alluded to
“the jolly laugh” of the other performer in
the stalls, and said he would like to meet
him afterwards to offer him a regular en-
gagcment. Of course, to push Ijis advan-
tage, Peacock presently went “behind” and
introduced himself, and thus the laugh got
itself cross-headed in the newspaper reports
of the comedian’s farewell nicht. Also it
made an opening for his interview with
Lauder, with some remarks upon the inter-
view. The political significance of it all
was apparent five weeks later when Alex-
ander the Cackler took over the Premiership
from William the Spouter; and for the next
few months at banquets, smoke nights and
other functions, the head of the Government
will be opened on the least provocation, and
the old, hilarious shriek will be once more
in the land.
Crime and its Encouragement.
The imperial nerve of the burglar is becom-
ing the wonder of those who fail to appre-
ciate the favorable conditions under which he
works in Sydney. Daylight robbery used
to be unusual; it has grown commonplace.
A few days ago a citizen was walking along
the Edgecliff-road, Woollalira. The sun
shone brightly and it was Saturday after-
noon. On the windowsill of a private
residence sat a burglar, who wrestled busily
with the catch. The same evening a couple
of members of the craft burst into an opti-
cian’s shop in George-street —in the presence
of the entire thoroughfare, so to speak—and
took what they fancied. A night or so
later burglars fell-to on another city shop,
at 9 p.m., an hour when, in the phrase of a
witness, “people were passing in droves.”
The pay of the men employed in the Eve-
leigh workshops was next taken by a gang
whose methods bespoke a serene conviction
that there would be no irritating police in-
terference. The malefactors in this case did
not even bother to buy a vehicle in which
to remove the £3400 they collected. . They
appropriated someone’s motor-car, just as
later they will probably steal a safe to keep
the money in. The fact is, burglary has
become one of the recognised professions in
Sydney. Leading inter-State practitioners
are settling on the harbor-side; immigrant
burglars are arriving; and people who, under
other auspices, might have become party
politicians or aldermen, are taking to the
broad path which leads to an independent
and honored old age. The phenomenon has
nothing to do with the wickedness or other-
wise of Sydney. The gradual filling-up
of the city with robbers of various
sorts is as automatic a process as
the arrival of water in a hole which
is dug in the sand near the sea.
Wherever the policeman isn’t, there the
burglar will be in due course. And the same
remark applies where the policeman is at
hand, more or less, but is debarred by other
duties from attending to what should be his
chief mission in life —the prevention and
detection of crime. According to the N. S.
Wales Year Book there is, on an average,
one policeman to every 2000 inhabitants of
the State. But it has been established that
in some Sydney suburbs, on certain occa-
sions, there may be but one policeman to
10,000 citizens. This state of affairs is
due to the fact that the proper quota of half
a policeman per 1000 citizens can never be
spared to any given suburb, owing to the
enormous number of duties which John
Hop is required to undertake. The N.S.W.
policeman’s activities range from registering
motor-cars, issuing drivers’ licenses,. and
compiling the electoral rolls, to attending to
the traffic, seeing that Old Age Pensions
legislation is not abused, collecting cow and
egg statistics, and registering births, deaths,
dogs and marriages. There is no logical
reason why the policemen should not also do
a little street scavenging, help to construct
the new Zoo, and do part of the work of the
Income Tax Commissioners —or the whole of
it. As against this there is no reason why
they should do any other work than is legiti-
mately theirs. Perceiving a part at least of
the latter view of the matter, Chief Sec.
Cann, of the N. S. Wales Government, is
understood to have resolved to root out the
scores of police who have hitherto been
doing purely clerical duties, and to engage
much more easily-acquired clerks in their
place; and that is the beginning of a very
necessary reform. After Cann has thus
released a new wave of police to meet the
new wave of criminals, he might very reason-
ably set to work to release the whole, force
from the multitude of collectors’ and similar
jobs which now absorb them and provide
Sikes with his opportunity.
+- 7
Cook’s alleged burning desire to consult the
people stops short at allowing the people to
know what arguments he used to sway the
unsophisticated Gov.-General into granting a
double dissolution. Is Cook ashamed of his
reasons ? Or was the Governor-General really
a partisan? If all is fair and square and
cogent and honorable, why hide it in the
Governor-General’s back yard? Why can’t
Joe Cook, the alleged champion of the
people, trust the people he champs for? And,
anyhow, hasn’t the Senate of the country
the same right as the humblest individual in
service to know why it is sacked ? There is
an unpleasant suspicion that the G.-G. was
advised that the Senate was merely a sort of
glorified Legislative Council, unrepresenta-
tive of the mass of the people, whereas it is
really more representative of the mass of the
people than the House of Reps, itself. Every
one of the six N.S.W. Senators, for instance,
scored over 200,000 votes each, whereas there
are Reps, who didn’t score more than a few
hundreds. “Truly representative” —why,
could Willie Kelly, to name one, represent
any but a mere superiali suburb?
■—-
Flowers, Minister in charge of the health
of N. S. Wales, gave the right answer to a
deputation which asked him to permit color-
ing matter to be added to margarine, or, as
somebody said he preferred to call it, syn-
thetic butter. The question of the whole-
someness or food value of the manufactured
grease does not enter into the question. The
point is that if it is colored to represent
butter it is going to be sold as butter —as
something, in short, that it isn’t. Inci-
dentally, the great Cow industry will thereby
suffer from a competition which will be dis-
honest ; and even if the great Cow industry
isn’t extraordinarily popular it ought to be
saved from that. Still, that is not the main
consideration, which is rather that it is
the duty of the State to save the public’s
stomach and pocket from being beguiled into
taking an imitation in place of the real
Strawberry juice.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA”
••. and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.”
A GRAND DOUBLE.
m
YG
boord&son
FI N . E 3T „ DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1
DT
Swift_&_Company^j,td^AMStral,sl, n A S e„f.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
hfdh
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
giv es health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour It cleanses the scalp ■is
the most perfect Hair Dressing
DON’T LOOK OLD ,
CHALLENGE.
” SSTM ZfIL
BLEEDING PILES '
MCRPHV,2“ r '„„ „ 1891.
MURPHY’S PIJLE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
... Ma de and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY
D . N.S.W., Sole Proprietor,
rice 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free
" 3 'keepers'
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Gipsy Love.”
Palace Harry Lauder.
“ No Mother to Guide Her.”
L ttle Theatre “The School for Scandal.”
■• • Mclntosh s V audeville Co.
National Theatre Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Spencer’s Pictures.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
Town Hall Mischa Elman.
t>T. James’s Hall Alexander Watson.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers.”
)*A GS Maud Allan.
n‘ 0 '“”; “Officer 666.”
Princess’s “Aladdin.”
, OLI Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co
Aumtorium Harold Bauer.
\\i.si s 1 alace West’s Pictures.
Majestic Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium I ce Skating.
TtnvTr' W I-’ VV ’' Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
voyal (27th, Matinge).. ‘An Enemy of the People.”
»
Mischa Liman is fiddling to huge audi-
ences in .Sydney Town Hall this week. As
a prodigy of style, temperament and tech-
nique, lie is greater, in this critic’s eyes,
than Kubelik, and so many miles ahead of
the ordinary nmn w h o grips a violin in pub-
lic that the latter can only gasp afar off at
the marvellous youth. The chief event on
«wm y i’ the opening night of the season,
should have been Lalo s “Symphonie Espag-
nole Elman had the orchestra, under con-
ductor Bradley, to back him up in this
aigument. But the backers needed more
rehearsals to bring the brilliant allegro up
tnm C ° nCei \ pitc k' The third subdivision of
this symphony was their best performance,
£. the t tripped along to a clean
Ymmu fmrn 1 A fore S roui M the Wonderful
xouth fiddled like one possessed of a celes-
tal choir Elman’s superb instrument
speaks with a hundred tones, and he gives it
no slack seconds, driving it to work over-
ime, like a Taskmaster who knows no rest
himself. The I aust Fantasie, as the small
Mischa played it, was a whole opera. Mar-
guerite s voiqe singing in the garden, Siebel
tooling round in silk tights, Faust sighiug for
his lost youth, and His Horns humming a
love ditty you get the whole lot. At
this crisis two-thirds of the audience emitted
such uproarious noises that weak-lunged en-
thusiasts could oifiy lean back and whisper
Ihree cheers i uuder their breath. The
brench-Canadian warbler, Eva Gauthier, a
favonte with Sydney folks, was in her best
voice and dress. Iler French songs were
charming but her English is not quite up
to and she gave Landon Ronald’s
u-ia P DoV - e * , to ° much tremolo before it
died of grief m the last line. The Dove
ought to have been much firmer on its feet.
** * *
Sydney is warned that the ready-money
now being issued at the Criterion is counter-
feit—the thousand-doHar bills that are so con-
fidently flourished are not worth the price of
a stalls seat. James Montgomery’s play
looks like a play: it has three acts, two
intervals, an assortment of actors and an
?Hfa e * Stla ‘ Rhas onl y one poor little
idea to carry the whole enterprise. The idea
is Mark Twain’s old one that money makes
money and that if you flourish a roll of
thousand-dollar bills nobody will ask you to
spend, but will rush to hand you
mole, u Stephen Baird is the owner of
a wild cat in Arizona, but can’t sell
any _ o t its stock for development purposes.
Ut is a rule in drama that every wild cat
strikes gold in the third act.) A counter-
eiter oilers Baird a roll of thousand-dollar
Dills ot his own manufacture, not for Baird
to pass, but merely to show, on the under-
standing that he will share with the counter-
.ter the good money he will then re-
TW °n ( a PP ar ently) worthless stock.
±hats all the play, except that the usual de-
tective arrives to arrest the counterfeiter and
-Baird and is. as usual, foiled. The foiling
consists in a two-minutes’ scrutiny of the
counterfeit notes and a decision that they are
fnS e ;n V e r' occurs t 0 the detectives
to hold the notes for a closer examination, nor
oes it occur to the two men, when they are
in immediate danger of arrest, to destroy the
notes and not merely talk about them. There
is no situation in “Ready Money” that is
teSion. SOme ’ n ° r haS * any clever cha rac
* * * *
With this poor dramatic stuff the comnanv
Mmi,rf hard ’Chades A.
i’i C l’ as counterfeiter, poses and
gesticiiKtes preposterously. William Harri-
gan the nnherom hero, and E. W. Morrison
his friend, are at least natural and easy but
heiehNn? " 0t ins Pj; re this critic to any
the most nf a hUSiaSm - Robert Whyte makes
of a sci> appy comedy part. Arthur
has no scope for his character work in
the straight part of a detective. Sylvia
Mso m run and Maggie Moore
aiso run. As this company made a onife
favorable impression in “The Argyle Case ”
If the V Firm the present play is at fault.
K the Firm thinks this sort of stuff is worth
importing from the U.S.—well, there is
simply something wrong with the machinery
that the Firm thinks with.
** * *
Gipsy Love” has been effectively cut,
hacked and added to during the last week,
with the resuit that it is running more
smoothly than ever to audiences which grow
mnrrpr eill f aP f tur i- ed nigl A by u ’S ht * As a
rhwma tn faCt ’ one of the rea sons which
decided the management to stop improving
w 1 4 at H ? r Ma jesty’s was a dread
S,, f they rendered their audiences too
h?w a on ® oi , those audiences might
ininp’ r d i lUln th ,® theatre and possibly
tal-e nn h v P L ayers - of labor can’t
trnilo y , chance ® in a country like Aus-
tin a ’ , and ’ anyhow, moderation in all
Firm S 1&S 6Ver been 4be wise motto of the
** * *
Smith, ’ a brilliant Somerset Maugham
SSCaS Played by a Part-amateur part"
piotessional company at the Repertory
Ut£ S»r„^, 0 “ da> ' n, * ht - It is a peasant
Pi, n 4 y ith a Purpose. A strong, sane
Rhodesian hero returns from battling in the
colonial wilderness to find that London has
degenerated. Dramatic and fictional heroes
S a Y od b r“ doI "S this since the Restoration
Snlv know th l-1 !f r ‘ p, rhe powers of darkness
fatn X. 6 f, ep4 , hs t 0 which London has
alien attei all these centuries of moral
declension Maugham confines himself, with
k.ncHy reticence, to the imposition of a
cb uA n ger on bridge, the tame-cat habit
nStes M the h boif niSm 'i? he re P atriated African
fn J Aici holl °w callousness and the grasp-
g selfishness of it all—vices which are well
known to be non-existent in the land oMhe
l at ®r Kruger and in desperation proposes
U reiuv ar i% m ?, id .. Smi,h - , 0t “"«<■ Smith
is really a lady, as well as being good
beautiful and industrious, so the exfgent
Thomas does better for himself matrimonfafiv
n unspeakable old London, after all than lm
would have done had lie gone wife-hunting
n Bulawayo or Wankie or Chepepo or somf
unspoiled centre of that sort.
thJnfn™^ 4 °l-^ e production consisted in.
t ewl f Iu ab i ht A t 0 suggest convincingly
is a suhHe t ' c « fashlonable Londoner. There
is a subtle difference as regards nnmw,.
do^Smart 1 S S ° f °f 4 V between the Lon-’
aon _ bmait Setter and the intolerantly ex-
clusive and proud resident of (say) Hunter’s
Repertoiw 1 TbM°t yne ‘ atmos P h ere of the
little RprLS t]re 0D Mo . ,l(]a y uight was too
little Beikeley-square, as it were, and a shade
too much Hunter’s Hill. On the other hand
tbe S de? eatr i ICe r M^Donald was excellent as
Trf a n e ly fascinating “Smith” and Mr
Kenda.]! gave a sound interpretation of the
doingfbe e 4 B ; lker - The amateurs are,
?“% fue community a service by presenting
intelligent comedies and the like—a class of
work which the Firm appears to have placed
under a ban. At this theatre, on Wednes-
day night next, the Stage Society is nro
ducing Barrie’s “Rosalind” and a Couple of
tions Ct W ° rkS by some what lesser constella-
“GIPSY LOVE,” AT HER MAJESTY'S,
SYDNEY.
Innkeeper John Ralston singing “Love and
Wine, “assisted by beautiful chorus gentlemen
wasting their sweetness under horsehair.
Bunty Pulls the Strings” opens at Syd-
ney Royal on Saturday night; so Harry
Hander, the present-tenant, moves on to the
1 alace to wind up his season, which con-
cludes on Wednesday, July 1. Any Satur-
day night wanderer who feels like some
fermented and spirituous, melody will find
it at the new address.
❖❖ * *
« JJ? screen-scene in Sheridan’s “School for
the Thttle I Theatre! traCtmg g °° d audiences at
Ihe main attractions of “The Bed Girl
“ t h . e Family,” at the Adelphi, are (see
advt.) the famous pillow-fight,” “the much-
discussed bedroom situation,” “the girls’
shop dormitory at night” and “Bess’s bed-
-f^ ere _ 14 or so other scenes, but
they don t count for so much at the box-
othce. To-morrow night “No Mother to
Guide Her will be taken out of cold-storage,
and, if The Bulletin remembers rightly
it shouldn’t take long to thaw.
~ A( | a J Eee ' r e.is having her final flutter at
the Sydney Tivoli, and last nights are near
enough to shake up anyone who hasn’t been
more than five or six times and wants to
go again. Those who have heard her more
than half a dozen times might be considerate
enough to stay home and make room for less
fortunate ones. The Omega Trio (an ab-
t^ 1 i y , mu ? cula r combination), Farr and
larland the Villions. (cyclists and freak
dancers), and Thornleigh Dodge (in “skits,
rans C^6S s^u d ies ”) are the principal also-
HARRY LAUDER-R-R-R IN SYDNEY.
“The Softest of the Family” and
“I Love a Lassie.”
Ihe Bulletin is able to relieve the mind
ot opposition showmen concermng the two-
shows-a-day experiment commenced some
weeks ago at the National Amphitheatre
A Sydney). It is paying like a fried-fish shop
in Jerusalem. (Smile, why don’t you?) No
doubt the good bill has a lot to do with it.
It, tor instance, Jokook were to be put on
some afternoon instead of Clement May as
the personifier of great men, the house could
bang the shutters up at once. Then there
are people like Iceberg Irvine, Weary Mur-
ray and Gregory Wade, who, while they can
command an audience amongst the cartoon-
ists, would be chased with malice and other
things to Cloncurry by an intelligent and
discerning National audience
Messrs. Dix and Baker,'of Newcastle, have
had a successful fortnight at the Palace
(Sydney) with two "feature” moving pie-
ces— “The Silence of Dean Maitland” and
Nero and Agrippina.” The latter was pro-
duced on Saturday night and occupied the
entire programme. Which is too long
especially for the lately-overdone representa-
tion of alleged Roman facts. Without going
into that, however, “Nero and Agrippina”
has had extraordinary pains bestowed upon
its production, and in its picturesqueness
gives value for the entrance money.
* * *
To-night (Thursday) Alexander Watson
will commence Ins Sydney recitals at St.
James s Hall, in Phillip-street. Watson has
the gift of expression. He understands the
art of putting things. If he wished he could
make a good living wandering round the
world borrowing money. Instead, he tackles
the harder job of giving selections from
> hakspeare, Charles Dickens, Bloodyard Ivip-
ling and that, grimmest of poets, John Mase-
field. He will be well worth hearing, and
any remarks beyond that would be merely
waste of paint on the lily.
The brisk young managers of the Imperial
Dancing I avilion and Tango Course are
elaborating arrangements for another great
carnival night. Pending this eruption,
ordinary business will be carried on as usual
at the Sydney address.
When the Melbourne Repertory Co first
dealt with “Fanny’s First Play,” the whole
performance was intelligently underdone:
and when a professional co. played the queer
little comedy at the Bijou a year ago, the
humor and satire of the induction and epi-
logue were hardly suggested, nor was the
play itself sufficiently well acted to console
the public for its incidental sufferings. There-
fore the public, mostly refused the opportu-
mfy t:o see a. Repertory revival of “Fannv’s
I irst Play at Melbourne Royal last Satur-
day afternoon. Besides, there was a power-
ful rival attraction in the Mischa Elman
concert, and the sun shone bright on many
oofball matches. The show deserved the
financia l success which it missed. The whole
performance was quite well done this time
? nd . lf , . tbe induction and epilogue still failed'
to justify their allusions to London theatri-
cal managements and critics and the Fabian
Society at Cambridge University—well the
fault was Bernard Shaw’s. Very few Mel-
bourne people take the least interest in mat-
only h Th* C °v Ce ii n * ClaSSy English
t D i'i 11 j, vastly-improved work of Miss
Isabel Handley, Norman Carter, McFadzean
Portions 0 nfM ° therS a made the two outsid e
before uw C ? mady m,u ' e acceptable than
fe ;- lbay put tbe s P in t of their cliarac-
tensations into the dialogue, but when all
was said they might just Is well, oT better
have been left out of the proceedings.
tl * l ' ee ' a( 't centrepiece is, the en-
flie TC^v Ut- Tbe Gilbe y Parents and son;
tFe Knox parents and daughter; the festive
Eoia, who is Bobby Gilbey’s natural affinity •
creation J af gms ’ who is . a Purely Gilbertian
lies 1 ° n dmil ' able Crichton
J.3 S A “ e henchman who preaches the gos-
pel of Bernard Shaw—these present an ex-
trayapntiy human comedy. The weakness
J hev iUmj ; s ln .rst Play” proper is its brevity,
r.heie isn t quite enough of it. If its situa-
tions were less hastily arrived at, and its
fore* a°n P d hy nf?T- Car?fl,lly rubbed in > and its
foie and aft trimmings torn away and its
tit e changed to “The Shams of Respecta-
bility or something, it ought to be as
“Nev a er n |ay Die.» Understanding as
*'* * ’
With one exception, the Repertory cast
was as before, the acting in all places being
so satisfactory that the defects are men-
™>ued in . a mer ely casual way. Green n,
McMahon s irascible Gilbey was a trifle'
too demonstrative; whilst Miss Seaton, as
his droll old missus, should have opened her
voice a little wider. Skewes and Miss Rob- '
son made good as the Knox parents; like-
ise Helton Daniell as the tall, passionless;
Juggins, who warms up to his matrimonial
intentions at the finish. Lyle Christian was
an l.\ lienchlike as the Frenchman, though
lie wanted more vivacity, and was half-
hearted m Ins kissing of Juggins. NewGl
got within easy distance of the part of
Dobby, and Miss Revira was a hearty, ama-
teurish Dora, somewhat too emphatic in
speech and action, but personally suited to
her trying job. The newcomer, Mrs.
Maurice Dudley ’ bas always been the best
of Melbourne amateur actresses, and her
performance as Margaret Knox was another
feather m her hat. This coming Saturday
afternoon the Repertory Co. will play “An
Lnemy of the People.” which is the nearest
approach to humorous comedy that Ibsen
ever committed. Vice-regal patronage is
promised.
** * *
The two Williamson theatres are putting
up _ new bills this Saturday. At Her
Majesty’s the Gilbert and Sullivan Opera-
G °; Wld s , tar . t a quick-change season with.
The Gondoliers,” “The Mikado” and fmo
other operas to follow in advertised turn.
Ihe co. includes several strangers, and four-
—Dorothy Vane, Ruth Lincoln, Albert:
Kavanagh and Frank Wilson— who are re—
turning to Australian notice after an ab-
sence more or less long. In Miss Vane’s;
case it is a return to the stage.
At the Royal the frivolity of “Never Say
f v e i ? la v? 011 Saturday to “Officer
bbb, which is likewise frivolous, but is said
to commumcjite thrills to the audience.
fTVj-i i IS th j e last thing one would expect
ot Niblo and co.
* * *
r.>'A^ Ud f A 3i an r and - “ usic drew another
Ciowd to the Kings last Saturday, when
JC P lca . of ,? ne c ( yM ng in the Amphitheatre
foi lagtime or Home, Sweet Home” was
ly brea i* m J he bar mony of this unique
entei tainment. No other vocal sound .was
bea ™, dmang the performance, and the fact
that Maud and the Cherniavskys are neither
a melodrama nor a revue is now generally
understood. Perhaps the programme is too
severely musical for a large section of the
audience ; nevertheless, any attempt at com-
promise would be a mistake. In the midst
of Tschaikowsky, Chopin. Paganini, Liszt
and Mozart a hit of ragtime would be as-
out of place as a bluebottle in the ointment-
or a sneeze in a lover’s prayer. On Satur-
day the opening trio was taken from the-
composer with the impossible name, and'
parts of it were charming. Also Jan Cher-
mavsky, the pianist, got violently encored:
for his playing of a Liszt Fantasie, with the.
orchestra which hard-working bodv of
music-makers mdoing much better than be-,
fore. Brothers Leo, Jan and Mischel change-
their numbers every night, but they never-
descend to cheap melody. Moreover, they-
look as though they couldn’t descend if they
tried The daintiest things they did on
Saturday were four Chopin “dance poems™


DAIMLER
’BUSES and LORRIES
LEAD
for EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY & GENERAL UPKEEP.
Sole Australian Agents —
SUNSHINE Hotor Cars Pty. Ltd.,
c/o COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
H. V. McKAY, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
ALSO
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS; etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Maud Allan posing and moving to the music.
The effect was often beautiful and never
dull. Finally the lady put herself through
the paces and graces of “Salome Dance,”
so-called, and here again the present writer
was struck by the evidence of development
in her art since she first Salomed in London.
Her movements from the waist upwards are
physical-culture exercises, and continued
practice has perfected the performance. Her
dressing of the part is much heavier than
of yore—Salome has a winter costume, may-
be —but in all other respects the unstockinged
artist is more interesting. The show at the
King’s promises to maintain its perfectly-
respectable success for the length of the
season, although the stage management is
still lax. The orchestra does not start at
eight, and the interval is longer than the
advertised 12 minutes.
* * *
Jolly Fanny Rice, who provides marionette
imitations of Harry Lauder, George Reid
and other melancholy persons, was the only
fresh artist to come under notice at Mel-
bourne Bijou on Saturday. Neil Cant, the
Scawtch warbler, and George Rowley, who
dances in the uniform of an ice-cream mer-
chant, are recent reappearers; while Gruet
and Gruet have changed their turn without
modifying the disorder of their proceedings.
The juggling Normans are conspicuous among
the others for the skill and slickness of their
turn, and May Brilliant is a comedienne who
would be quite a success if she sang only to
her enemies.
* * * *
Considering its row and ragtime and un-
necessary advertisements of tea, whisky and
corsets, “Aladdin,” now at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, . seems more a cheap revue in the
Amurkan manner than a panto extravaganza
of the old popular kind. Its most noticeable
shortcoming is the absence of effective ballet
features, the large female support being
merely employed to wave its aggregate arm
or put its unanimous foot down when any-
thing calls for special emphasis. The dress-
ing, also, is not over-gorgeous or enchanting,
and the scenery is only arresting in one par-
ticularly charming instance. The book,
however, is above the average, a generous
thickening of local gags strengthening the
narrative in its weaker moments. As re-
gards the cast, Carrie Moore as Aladdin
doesn’t seethe with energy, or suggest the
physical allurement that is alleged to stir
Princess Badroulbadour’s young affections.
Decision is reserved respecting her singing—
her voice may now be foggy by nature, or
may be only clouded by a heavy cold. The
Princess (Miss Mabel Batchelor) uses a
pleasing voice and is sprightly, but Miss
Palotta, as Koko, gives short weight in both
singing and acting departments.
* * #
The last of Harold Bauer (for the present,
anyway) will be heard at the Melbourne
Auditorium this (Thursday) afternoon. It
will be his eighth recital, and the followers
of pianoforte recitals will be reluctant to let
the masterly Harold go. It seems possible
for them to adore Bauer without ceasing to
love Borwick. They are respectively mas-
culine and feminine, sunlike and moonlike,
emotional and sentimental. On Saturday he
opens his Sydney season at the Town Hall.
* * * *
Beth Tate, the Californian Girl, and Four
Vagabonds are the newest items at Melb.
Tivoli, unless fate intervened to prevent
them from arriving on Monday night. On
Saturday the programme was strengthened
by the reappearance of Gilday and Fox,
Talleur Andrews and Vivien Talleur, the
gingerous dancer, in place of some people
who had stayed long enough to grow mono-
tonous.
* :'fi si: *
The star attraction at West’s Melbourne
house this week is “Orders Under Seal,”
which has been giving the lawyers enough
to buy their winter coals with. Next week
West puts on an unusual film called
“Clothes,” and a few weeks hence he screens
the expensive love affair of Antony and Cleo-
patra, produced with great detail by the
Cines Co. of Rome.
* * *
Adelaide is in the midst of a wave of
really high-class music. Mischa Elman, the
great little man with the Beethoven brow,
has come and gone ; he was “received” at the
University Conservatorium and by the Cham-
ber Music Society (though shyness would
not allow him in either case to give even a
word of speech to the worshippers) and
acclaimed at the Exhibition for two ecstatic
evenings. Personally he is unspoiled; pro-
fessionally he has few mannerisms, although,
as Bret Harte said, the man who can knock
out all-comers has a right to wear foolish
lemon-colored kid gloves on those fists if he
chooses. Alex. Watson, in a. not-popular
hall, was just warming Adelaide to full ap-
proval when he had to leave. The . Glee
Club has had a concert; so has Heinicke’s
brilliant orchestra; so has the Conserva-
torium orchestral class under the same
popular conductor. And at the Exhibition
the fine instrumentalists from the city’s
various theatres and halls got to-
gether for a positively brilliant_ Sunday
afternoon’s music in aid of Minda, the
home for weak-minded children. The public
attended in thousands, but a collection
brought in a paltry £65.
**** , . ,
“Come Over Here is a boux to disband,
after running its course at Adelaide Koyai.
Fred Leslie goes to England, where his
quaint humor and marvellous dancing snouia
assure him success. His spider s-web dance
with Ivy Schilling in the revue is an athie ic
triumph. Daisy Jerome overdoes things,
To sit in the audience and wonder uneasily
what the clever lady on the stage is going to
say next is not a pleasant experience, lie
Royal has now made a sudden jump to tne
gloomy but powerful Madame A, veiy
French and finely acted
AT POVERTY POINT.
Daisy Jerome seems to be taking some trouble to
acquire a reputation that others might considei
hardily worth picking up. She impressed on a
Register interviewer in Adelaide these points: (1)
“I was awfullv nervous about coming here. Mel-
bourne said: ‘Fancy Daisy Jerome going to
Adelaide!’ So did Sydney. ‘My dear, they’ll never
stand you in Adelaide. You know, you’re a—tum-
tum, tiddley-um, tum-tum.’ I was just scared out
of my wits coming here.” (2) “And now, do you
know what I think of Adelaide? Well, this: The
nearer you go, the better you go ! I smacked it at
them quick. One, two, three—let her go, conductor !
(3) “Oh, I’m a naughty girl. But it gets me the
monev.” After which, the pressman courteously
handed her the particular bouquet she was evidently
asking for; he called her performance “a mixture
of red hair and blue songs.”
ICreisler is keeping a kindly eye on young Mcßeath,
the Sydney fiddler. The boy has just arrived in
London after touring America, and will put in four
months’ hard labor with some large musical authority
before leaving to tour Canada and Sam’s land with
John Mac Cormack again.
“Harrison O.”: “Classical dancing,” as supplied by
Maud Allan, is a lazy art. Its amorphous style saves
its exponents the years of training and self-denial
which go to make an expert coryphee; just as his
habit of expressing himself in disconnected barks
saved Walt Whitman from learning the laws of
prosody. Maud, it is alleged, “dances with her
soul,” but she has never learnt to dance with her
feet, and the claim that her glidings and posturings
are strikingly suited to the expression of emotion is
largely bogus. Most of the emotion felt by visitors
to Melbourne King’s is generated not by action, but
by music. Maud Allan, in “classical” widow s weeds,
moving about the stage to the tune of Chopin’s
“Funeral March,” is not nearly as impressive as her
accompaniment. GenCe leaping and pirouetting in
silence would still be a delight, but a “classical”
dancer sans her orchestra would be tripe without
onions.
Harrington Reynolds and “The Rosary” co., im-
ported from U.S.A. by E. J. Carroll, and now tour-
ing Australasia by arrangement with Geo. Wil-
loughby, Ltd., passed through Sydney last Saturday
en route to Wellington and other towns of Maori-
land. Sydney follows the M.L. visit.
Charles MacMahon, whaee birr picture, “London by
Day and Night” (taken by himself a little over a
year ago), has been so attractive to Australian and
Maoriland audiences, is in Sydney spying out more
cino. novelties. The MacMahon show-house in Wel-
lington (M L.), known as the New Theatre, is being
remodelled in order to the better compete with the
seven picture palaces in that town. Picture palaces
in Maoriland are becoming nearly as numerous as
pubs, and the profits are not in such jeopardy from a
local-option poll.
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Jan Cherniavsky at the piano.
The late Armes Beaumont had one “soulful” char-
acteristic which would never have been suspected
from his bluff, hearty manner on the stage, or his
mundane fondness for food and card-playing off it.
Though his dim eyesight debarred him from eager
literary study of his fad, he was a spiritual-
ist. One of Gordon Carter’s reminiscences of the
Palmer-Beaumont concert tours is of a very wet
Sunday in a Vic. country town, when Mrs. Palmer
and the tenor beguiled their hours of captivity at
the hotel by arguing the matter of spooks. The
lady was a strict materialist, but all her attempts
to shake Beaumont’s convictions were a waste of
Sunday labor. He stuck to the idea that his spirit
would visit the “circle” after his mortal decease,
though he was not quite certain that the medium
would be able to do any singing.
“Ami”: Dorothy Vane returns to the stage in her
familiar part of Tessa, in “The Gondoliers.” As
wife of the proprietor of Menzies’ Hotel, she bade
farewell to the boards for ever, and that was a good
many years ago—so many that the papers don’t say.
Since then she has appeared just once, humbly de-
scending to Buttercup, in “Pinafore.” The return
is perilous. Sontag came back to the operatic stage
after 25 years’ absence, and the public found her
exactly the same; but, offhand, I do not recall any
other case. True, we have had Nordica, Albani
and Ella Russell, and they sang well, very well.
But comic opera, opera bouffe and musical comedy
demand slap-dash, and whatever else you could get
you couldn’t expect that from any of this trinity.
Annette Kellerman, who now prefers to be con-
sidered an American product, has been one of the
unsuccessful candidates for the throne of 9 l^ e *}
of the Actors’ Fair in New York. After spirited
electioneering ” a convention of the profession de-
cided for Stella Mayhew; she beat even Maude
Adams, who is generally regarded as the best of
’Murkan stage beauties. Both. Stella and Maude
were put forward by the anti-tights party. Annette
was the chief candidate of the tights party, and is
still liable to challenge the others to a contest in
which clothes are cut to the irreducible minimum.
From London: Genfie had a packed, excited, cheer-
ing house at London Coliseum for her final farewell.
Sunday morning had well-nigh dawned when they
gave up recalling the dainty Danish dancer and
howling “For She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.” She has
still to say good-bye to Manchester, Bristol and other
provincial cities, after which she makes a last tour
of \mcrica, whence she may cross the Pacific and
see Australia again, if the right persuasion is
offered.
MAUD ALLAN ,
THE DANCER ,
WITH HER
CLOTHES ON.
“Masetto”: The Osterley
brought back baritone Rufus
Ferguson to his native Mel-
bourne after a couple of years’
study, much broken by ill-
health. Ferguson sang in grand
opera in support of Bel Sorel
and Amy Castles, and, later
on, under the wing of Melba,
who advised the trip to
London. Previously he had
appeared with the National
Opera Co. at Melbourne Royal, and was
entrusted with the part of Henri in Lcs
Cloches des Corneville,” and for three nights
dealt with Danny Mann in “The Lily of Killarney.
This last effort was unadvertised by press or from
the stage, so Rufus was unlucky even in those days.
Reynolds Denniston is finding his Country Amuse-
ments scheme well thought of. The idea is to
collect a good company of mummers and give one
performance a month in each of 20-odd towns in
N. S. Wales. The co. will be financed, in the first
place, by shareholders (no person can hold more
than 15 shares) in the various towns —not that it is
necessary to raise the money that way, but because
interest in the scheme will thus be spiead where
it will do most good.
From London: Genfie has done a graceful act in
handing over to the Topsy Sinden relief fund all the
money subscribed for a farewell presentation to her-
self. She says all she wants is “the treasured affec-
tion of my British public.” The Coliseum has got a
famous artist, Byam Shaw, to design its new cur-
tain. (He didn’t paint it, however.) It shows stage
writers and players, from Aeschylus to Harry Lauder,
including’ Wagner, Sheridan, Moli£re, Bernhardt, Gil-
bert and Sullivan, Tree, Wyndham—and George
Robey. A fine mixed grill. The Palladium has a
show that ought to appeal to Australia: a spectacular
bush fire. There is a falsely-accused engine-driver
who clamors to have his handcuffs removed so that
he can save the fugitives. But the strength; of the
piece is the wonderfully-worked illusion by which
big trees, houses and a bridge are all apparently
burnt to ashes. Forbes Robertson cables from the
U S.A. that his farewell tour has in 30 weeks
taken 535,000d01. say, £ll2,ooo—which is believed
to be a local record. At the annual banquet of
the O.P. Club Miss Horniman (dramatist) remarked
in a cynical speech that the one thing which really
would make the drama flourish is for some genius
to devise a scheme by which men could bet about it.
(Continued on page 86.)
“Copy Boy” : War correspondent Bennett
Burleigh, who died the other day, scored
while representing London Daily Tele-
graph in S’ Africa. A strict censorship was
in force when Burleigh sent a couple of
seemingly innocent messages. One was to
his paper: “Whitsuntide greetings”; the
other to a relative: “Coming home. Tell
Lawson” (son of the chief proprietor of the
D.T.). The editorial staff got its
collective brain to work, turned up
the “gospel” for Whit Sunday and read:
“Peace I leave with you. My peace I give
unto you.” On that and the private mes-
sage it was decided to chance it, with the
result that the Telegraph was the first to
announce that terms of peace had been
arrived at.
From Octavius C. Beale: —
Re bogus names on pianos. We are gen-
erally supposed to be the only manufacturers
of pianos in N. S. Wales, but there is an-
other manufacturer, an industrious, skilful trades-
man, turning out, in a small way, a good and
genuine article. He it was who voluntarily told the
Interstate Commission that, to sell at all to traders,
he was absolutely forced to use “fancy” or bogus
names. We believe that a full half of the 18,000
pianos imported yearly into Australia bear fancy, false
or bogus brands, whichever word fits best. Moreover,
it was sworn before the Commission that plates bear-
ing these fake names are generally kept in stock by
importers for sale to “the trade,” so that any one of
them may be placed at will by any dealer upon any
piano to assist in selling it. Many of these labels
display the actual names of piano-makers in Ger-
many,' and are affixed to instruments of other German
makers without the consent of the former. Probably,
then, 8000 to 10,000 pianos come to Australia each
year with “fancy” brands,- and, on top of that,
loose name-plates are regularly on sale by importers
as a catalogued article, so that dealers can chuck
around with false or real names, as fits their fancy.
Beale and Co. Ltd. only make and sell pianos
under one name, their own name, and nobody else’s
name. We have to play against a host of opponents
who hold in the way above described marked cards
and loaded dice, yet who have the hearty help, sym-
pathy and approval of the fanatical freetrader. But
our competitor, the other piano-maker, a transpar-
ently honest man, told the Commission straight out
that he did of necessity what the importers do in
10,000 cases; also that he hates the practice and
holds it to be wrong. Thereupon every _ importers’
barracker stands on his head and kicks in the dial
of the post-office clock by way of protest against
the pathetic figure of the struggling little local piano-
maker who played the game as the law allows. Also
the press generally, with great bravery, castigated
Smike, and, in dusting his coat, some of the dirt
has been cast upon us, to which last we so disre-
spectfully object.
Sydney City Council got a letter pitched
in a sad minor key last week. It was from
“a poor gentlewoman,” and the writer stated
that she was also speaking on behalf of
many other elderly sisters who found them-
selves obliged to retire after many years
teaching, and tackle with the fag-end of their
strength and intelligence the tough and
bitter problem of living on next-to-nothing.
Then the writer marched on to make her
point in this fashion: “I want to ask you
if nothing can be done for us in the re-
sumed areas where you are erecting such
beautiful places for the working people.
We have borne all the heat and burden of
the day, but still wish to be independent.”
The sting of this old-age tragedy lies in
the fact that the average poor gentlewoman
has mostly been a snobbishly staunch Liberal
all her working life, and fiercely opposed on
principle to the “pampering” of the working
classes. And when old age _ overtakes her
she finds that her loyal imitation of her
well-to-do employers was a ghastly waste of
time, and is forced to ask for just a little
of the plain comfort that the workers have
won for themselves. Time is a revengeful
brute.
The S. M. Herald certainly has the grand
manner as regards its errors. It said one
day last week :
Miss Eadith Walker, of Yaralla, near Sydney, has
intimated her desire to present her estate to the
Government as a permanent home for the Governoi -
General, and this generous offer will probably be
accepted.
Within about an hour Yaralla was practically
a creeping mass of pressmen who took down,
with an air of bedside grief, the distracted
protests of the owner. She denounced the
whole thing as a fabrication. She expressed
dread as to what her trustees would think
and do when they read the news, and left a
haunting impression in the minds of the ink-
stained band that it was well on the cards
that one or more of the trustees might burst.
With the entire town shouting “Liar into
its aged ear, the Herald blandly came out
next morning with the following:
Considerable interest has been aroused in the an-
nouncement made in the Herald yesterday that the
Governor-General will visit Sydney next month, and
will stay at Yaralla, Miss Eadith Walker’s stately
residence.
“Considerable interest”! What a priceless
phrase in reference to an episode which sug-
gested as much as anything else, in the mat-
ter of uproar, the proceedings of a hungry
cannibal tribe on first catching sight of a
heavyweight missionary!
Next month the N. S. Wales Farmers’
Conference will sit in Sydney, and the draft
programme is the usual sample of the cocky s
characteristic hostility to Socialism:—
The State Government to erect tick dips in the
northern district.
The Commonwealth Government to remove every
cattle tick in N.S.W. back into Queensland.
The State to teach scientific dairying free.
New railways to be built to various coastal ports.
Government farms to be established on the Bel-
linger. ...
A Government pig expert to be appointed.
The efforts of the Government to grapple with
cow diseases to be redoubled.
A State Veterinary Department to be provided.
The State to subsidise roads to railway stations.
There are others, but by the time these are
attended to it will be necessary for delegates
to hustle back to their districts and help to
down the Sosh candidates at the Federal
polls.
The views of “Lex” :
What a grotesquely illogical lot jurymen do prove
themselves to be whenever the least strain is put on
their faculties! Gwendolin Browne, a typist, had
been sacked by Lionel Bridge, of John Bridge
and Co., of Sydney, for frivolous conduct. But a
feud existed between Bridge and one Morath, the
head of the department in which Miss Browne
worked; and Morath directed her not to accept the
sack. She accordingly spurned the gift, and went
on spurning it. Having deliberately waited to be
pushed off the premises, she proceeded to bring an
action for assault, though in all the circumstances
Bridge could hardly have let her grow there per-
manently. The weight of evidence was dead against
the presumption that undue force—in a word, bru-
tality—had been used; nevertheless the jury gave the
maiden £5O damages on that issue. On a count
of libel, contained in Bridge’s instructions to
Morath, she got nothing. And yet the attack on
her character was far more damaging than the
attack on her body, and, on the evidence, it had far
less justification.
What the jury appears to have said in the matter
was something like this: The girl has been flighty
in business hours —a grave offence. But there is no
real harm in her. Bridge has money; she hasn’t.
Let us give a verdict that will carry costs against
the people who can afford to pay, without freeing
plaintiff from the imputation which we should our-
selves have levelled at her (perhaps in more guarded
terms) had she joked with any of our own male
employees during business hours. The conclusion
is a masterpiece in its way. It is also a triumph
of wowserism.
The upshot of this case suggests that it is about
time “virtue” ceased to be an essential in those call-
ings in which women are employed. Or, to put it
in another way, it is time that employers were
debarred from sacking girls on the grounds of the
latter’s alleged lack of “respectability.” If such a
convention were applied to men-employees, commerce
would come to a standstill. If it obtained as regards
either men or women on the stage, the theatre
would fall dead. In journalism, the law and other
professions, the morality question does not enter,
Why in business? A Georges Sandes would be as
efficient behind a counter or at a typewriter as a
St. Cecilia, and similarly a girl who habitually
surf-bathes and flirts in her leisure moments is likely
to be as competent commercially as one whose hob-
bies are district-visiting and singing in choirs. On
the other hand, the knowledge on the part of an
employer that he is safe in construing what may be
the most innocent frivolities into indications of loose
conduct meriting the sack means that a highly-
dangerous lever is put in the employer’s hands. If
it was taken away from him neither he nor his busi-
ness would miss it, and the position of the female
employee would be about 100 per cent, safer.


GREAT PYJAMA
OPPORTUNITY.
By the Mammoth Purchase of over
10 MILES of Snecial Pyjama Material, we
are able to make you a Phenomenal Offer in
Pyjama Wear. The suits have been tailored
in our own factory, and the price at which
we are selling them means to you an extra
value of 50 per cent, per suit. This is a
really desirable opportunity.
SINGLE SUIT OfS/
THREE SUITS for.
19/6
The suits are well made, with strong girdle and good
pearl buttons, and will give splendid wear. In all
the latest designs.
SENT CARRIAGE PAID.
DAVID JONES, LTD.
Opp. 6.9.0. , SYDNEY.
m
fdh
fdh
llTv jr’fl
BRACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort , Style
At first class shops,
Society
SUCH A LITTLE ONE , TOO.
HE : “If I were to kiss you on one cheek
would you offer the other? ”
SHE: “I' d try. But my mouth might get in
the way.”
There is going to be a big fight in Ade-
laide over the proposal to establish a “White
City” or “Luna Park.” The City Council
has tentatively agreed to lease to the pro-
moters for a term of years, at £6OO per
annum, four acres of the park-lands just
behind the Oval; but the Council only car-
ried it by 11 to 7, and several of the majority
announced cautiously that the citizens would
have to decide ultimately. A poll will be
required, anyway. The opposition comes
from the press (the Register calls it “whole-
sale pawning of the parks” and “a melan-
choly blunder”), the Park Lands’ Preserva-
tion Society and the Amusement Managers’
Association, every theatre in the city having
joined in a protest against installing the new
rival on such select terms. Incidentally, it
is said that £lOO,OOO of capital has been
spent by the present caterers for Adelaide
amusements within the past year.
When the Titanic went down in 1912 the
Board of Trade recast its life-saving rules.
For one thing it threw out the old scheme
of buoyant seats for ferry boats, and in their
place adopted life jackets. Automatically
the whole Empire ordered life jackets. In
N.S.W. alone some 80,000 were suddenly
wanted, 50,000 being for Port Jackson. But
the Board of Trade didn’t think of consulting
the cork trees on the subject, and the result
is chaos. Cork is almost the only thing,
bar rubber, that hasn’t been successfully
imitated, and, moreover, it isn’t grown with
commercial success outside Spain and Por-
tugal. Naturally, the abnormal demand sopn
absorbed all the first-class cork. So second-
class stuff was called up, then third-
class, and so on down to Otli class. The life
jacket required under the Board of Trade
conditions must float for 24 hours with 151 b.
of iron attached. The Sydney companies, hav-
ing bought 40,000 of these (at about 4s.
each), built up racks and cupboards and put
the utensils on board their fleets. Six
months later an inquisitive inspector picked
up a couple of dozen jackets, tied the 151 b.
iron weights to them, put them in water and
the lot sank like, kerbstones. The Naviga-
tion Department thereupon asked the cos. to
buy 40,000 new jackets, and it is understood
the said cos. will do so when the cork trees
grow. Meantime the Navigation Department
takes up the attitude that the £BOOO worth of
life jackets now on board the steamers doesn’t
exist. True, a jacket equal to floating 81b.
will float a man, but the Board of Trade
says “151 b. for 24 hours,” and there you are.
But where the parties to the trouble are
nobody knows.
Telegraphed from Maoriland to Australian
newspapers —
Wellington. —A man named Cripps was found
guilty of manslaughter in connection with the death
of another man named Stevenson, at Orari, Geraldine.
Cripps swore that Stevenson struck the first blow in
a quarrel. Medical evidence showed that Cripps
was an imbecile.
The Judge said that accused was unfit to be
abroad, and sentenced him to hard labor for life.
Presumably, if the mentally-afllicted wretch
had been found guilty of murder, as the law
understands it, his Honor would have cured
him with a hangman’s rope.
It costs a good deal to be
polite in some Maoriland
courts, as a young man has
discovered at Wanganui. He
was charged with (1) at-
tempting to carnally know
a girl under 16 years of age,
(2) indecent assault, (3)
common assault. The jury
found him not guilty on the
first two counts, but guilty
on the third. Judge Ed-
wards, who can be as can-
tankerous as the next man
(although that may have
nothing to do with this
case), refused to accept the
verdict on the ground that
it was not logical. So the
jury had another try, and
this time found accused not
guilty on the first count, but
guilty on the third. They
disagreed on the second.
This verdict wouldn’t satisfy
Edwards, either ; so the jury
retired again and evidently
decided to give the eminent
Judge the straight tip as to
who had the last word. They
returned and said “Not
Guilty” on all three counts.
Just here the accused’s sense
of politeness manifested it-
self. Turning to the jury
the tenant of the dock said :
“Gentlemen, I thank you.”
“Prisoner,” snapped Ed-
wards, “you are fined £5 for
contempt of Court.” If
the expression of gratitude was as
polite as it reads, where was the “con-
tempt”—apart, of course, from any that
bench and jury may have entertained for one
another?
The usual damsel burst into the Melbourne
detective office the other evening with the
usual narrative, only to depart presently in
the usual state of disgust. This time the
tale began with a bold, bad woman, who had
met the damsel and her mate, on their
arrival from Burnie (Tas.), and, on pre-
tence of escorting them to a registry office,
had taken them to a bold, bad house in
Carlton, whence they were subsequently
ejected neck and crop and without anything
except what they stood upright in. The
detectives listened cautiously, then desired
Muriel to introduce them to her friend
Gwendoline, who had taken a position as
housemaid somewhere. Next night Gwen-
doline came and told a similar tale as far as
the summary went: but the details varied so
largely that the officers cross-examined the
two separately and then invited them to
explain how it was that, according to
Muriel, the lady was tall and dark and the
Carlton house a double-fronted, single-
storeyed villa, whereas, according to Gwen-
doline, the deceiver was short and fair and
the house one of a two-storeyed terrace,
After that there were hysterics and copious
tears. The two were about to leave with a
pocketful of good advice when someone re-
cognised them as two escapees from the
Salv’army Home at Geelong, named Mary
and Kate. Katie, being in a billet, was
allowed to stay there, but Mary was re-
turned to the washtub. She will be heard
of again, however. She is only 18, and
when she learns to give due attention to
details something will happen to somebody.
SO MUCH TO DO—SO LITTLE DONE.
THE BIRD OF PARADISE: “Then those , Professor , are all your own published work.
What are alt the other shelves?”
THE BEE: “OH, notes for more work!"
“P. Rhei”: The fashion of importing
editors has extended to the new Australian
Medical Journal, and Dr. H. W. Armit,
late of the British Medical Journal staff,
was landed free of duty a couple of weeks
ago. He is reputed to be considering whether
or not his paper is to be allowed to have an
appendix. The pill-dervish community have
more reason for importing their editor than
had the Daily Telegraph, as medical jour-
nalists of really high grade are rare birds.
The scalpel is a more efficient tool than the
scissors for separating a decent income from
a hardfisted world, and the amount of pains
and energy needed for making a success of
a medical journal would suffice to operate a.
practice of considerable tonnage. Dr. Armit
has recently been through the industrial
insurance war in England, and saw all
phases of the battle between Lloyd George
and the doctors. The latter were soundly
licked in the fight, but that was principally
due to their own utter lack of solidarity,
and even of loyalty to their leaders. The
lessons derived from that campaign will
probably become apparent when the Federal
Parliament finds time to do a little work in
industrial insurance in the intervals of elec-
tioneering and,having larks with the Mace.
Local medical log-rollers are disgusted with
the Armit person, having discovered in him
one who will not butt in without looking
where he is going. His speech at an intro-
ductory dinner, soon after arrival, was an
admirable exposition of how to avoid pre-
mature involvement in local medical politics.
As he brings with him a reputation for fierce
and whole-hearted scrapping ability in the
journalistic sense, the results of making up
his mind on some of the most polemic
features of the local medical world will be
interesting, and possibly lurid. In addition
to his journalistic experience, the new editor
has done a good deal of useful research
work, and is a highly qualified doctor of
wide professional experience. He is married
to a German lady of considerable intellectual
tonnage, whose presence will probably be
felt in local women’s literary societies.
If the Maternity Bonus has not created
a new industry, it has at least helped along
a very desirable old one—the lying-in hos-
pital. The nett results are pleasant to con-
template. In due season the prospective
mother goes to one of these retreats, away
from the noise, bustle, worry and lack of
decent privacy that prevails in the average
home. In the hospital medical and sur-
gical requisites are at hand; the dietary and
nursing are usually what they' should be;
the nurse sleeps adjacent, and the doctor
is at call a door or two distant. And for
most of this the Federal fiver pays in seven
cases out of 10. Of the births announced
in a Sydney paper during one recent week
• U p on 59 per cen t. took place in private
hospitals. Better for doctor, better for
nurse, better for mother, and best of all for
baby—the little immigrant the State is most
j n nee( j o f_
* * * *
“Palette” in reply: That was a fine large
decayed fish that “Mavandava” (B. 4/6/T4)
aimed at the Australian painters responsible
for the Commonwealth portraits. I don’t
ever remember to have heard of “Mavan-
dava” in connection with art before ; but he
generalises so heroically and condemns with
such whole-hearted enthusiasm that I rather
suspect him of being some superior Cockney
visitor. His torrent of anonymous condem-
nation suggests that he hasn’t sufficient
artistic knowledge to either praise or .blame
intelligently. If “Mavandava” has ever
painted a portrait, he will know that the
usual restrictions as to size, attitude, robes
and so forth limit ti e painter, just as “Mav-
andava” would he limited if he were ordered
to recast his uproarious paragraph and get
the same effect without using vivid words
like “poisonous,” “shocking,” “atrocious,”
“rotten,” “damn” and so forth. Then if
“Mavandava” has ever painted robes (I
don’t know, but I presume he paints some-
thing), he will know how they overlay the
identity of the sitter. If he doesn’t realise
what a handicap they are, may I suggest a
little experiment? Let “Mavandava” wrap
a quilt round his shoulders, heap a towel
on his head, and hang one of those orna-
mental women’s belts round his neck. Then
let him look in the mirror and note how he
differs from his everyday,_ plainclothes self,
Yet, in spite of all restrictions, I contend
that the- accredited Australian painters he
assails so relentlessly have done meritorious
work. He may differ again; but, if he does,
for Heaven’s sake let him differ helpfully
and give the portrait-makers the benefit of
his artistic knowledge. But it is no good
yelling incoherent abuse behind a hedge;
any naked savage could do that much.
A DRAWING-ROOM RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The vicar sits in the window-seat,
And smiles on a maiden simply sweet,
While the rare, warm air around them reeks
With the perfumed bloom on her lovely cheeks.
As he champs on a crumpet with practised skill,
The vicar observes that the day is chill,
And there rises up, as the parson chews,
A wintry scent from his square-toed shoes.
With his feet at rest on a Persian rug
The virtuous vicar is truly snug ;
What though from the flower-full mantel comes
A fearful smell of chrysanthemums?
The door is closed, and the windows, too,
And the drawing-room air is far from new ;
But the vicar sniffs at his steaming cup,
And never his nose turns faintly up.
Sniffing, he beams —and he beams the most
When violets mingle with buttered toast;
And it troubles him not when his earthly lot
Is sprinkled with bottled forget-me-not.
All drawing-room odors, indeed, he loves,
From the pungent perfume of dry-cleaned gloves
To the scented skirts of a maid demure,
And the hair-oil hid in a chic coiffure.
With a touch of pomade in his own scant hair
The vicar “chins” with a lady fair,
And he takes his fill of the drawing-room snfcll
With the windows shut and the door as well.
VICTORIA,
FRANK HENTY.


THE FORM OF ILL-HEALTH THAT MOST
PREVAILS IN AUSTRALIA.
We are told that the consumption of medi-
cine is greater in Australia than in any other
country, and this must be attributed to an
unsatisfactory condition of health affecting a
large proportion of our people. What then
is the prevalent form of ill-health ? All indi-
cations point one way —to the fact that the
average person suffers most frequently from
some disorder of the digestive functions, which
might be easily corrected by the right kind of
treatment. Modern medical authorities teach
us that most of our common ailments have
their origin in the digestive area. In a word,
we poison ourselves (autointoxication) by
absorption from the intestinal tract. To over-
come this condition, the best remedy is
petroleum, because unlike other remedies, it
reaches the intestines unchanged, where it
exercises its lubricating, anti-fermentative,
healing effects to the fullest extent. The
original and standard preparation of petroleum
for internal use is Angier's Emulsion, which
has been largely employed by the medical
profession ever since 1892. Apart from its
soothing, healing properties, Angier’s Emulsion
(because of the hypophosphites which it con-
tains) exerts a marked tonic, invigorating
influence which makes it of value in a wide
variety of disorders. Doctors prescribe it
largely, not alone for lung troubles and wasting
diseases, but even more for digestive and bowel
disorders. Very good results have followed
its use in the treatment of gastric catarrh,
gastric ulcer, mucous colitis, nervous dys-
pepsia, chronic constipation, and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders that
have resisted other treatment. Of all chemists
at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage Od.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.
m.
& \
VERY WARM AND DURABLE.
For those who contemplate a train or steamer journey during the cold
weather we suggest a good, warm, all-wool Rug such as we quote
These Rugs are neatly patterned, and produced in rich, distinctive
eolorings. . ,
Colors: Dark and Light Grey, Greens, Reds and Bro "'
Reversible Check patterns. Fringed ends. An excellent lug fox
either travelling or driving.
25/-
This price is but one of many —we have rugs ranging in pi ice
from 16/6 to 67/6.
Catalogue of Men’s Wear on request.
PEAPES CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 George Street* Sydney
Judging by what Melbourne’s Housing
Commission learnt the other day, there isn’t
so much need in that city for Slum Inquiries,
Minimum Allotment movements and legisla-
tion to improve dwelling conditions as there
is for some means to compel the lazy, reac-
tionary municipal councils to do their duty.
What it is possible to do and do swiftly
the councillors of Coburg showed the other
day. That suburb possesses no slums and
but one row of small houses; but it dis-
covered that a property-owner proposed to
line a whole street with hutches. Promptly
the council got to work and issued a regu-
lation that no house should be erected on
a site with less than 40ft. frontage and a
depth of 112 ft. ; and what Coburg can do
and has done the Local Government Act
authorises Port and South Melbourne and
other localities to do with equal expedition.
“HIS MASTER'S VOICE.”
“Trafalgar”: There is trouble in Sydney
racing circles, and the way of it is this.
Some time ago one of the world’s most
famous entrepreneurs lent one of the
world’s most eminent pugilists his A.J.C.
member’s ticket. At the last Itandwick
meeting the distinguished pugilist proceeded
to use it. He was immediately recognised
by 87 bona fide members and the gate-
keeper, who, however, being an elderly man,
made no effort to fling the interloper out.
A committee-meeting was summoned in haste,
and the pugilist was requested to attend and
explain the inexplicable —namely, how lie,
who did not belong to the A.J.C., came to be
in the members’ enclosure. The upshot was
that the pugilist has been let off under the
First Offenders Act or something, after a
terrifying interview with the authorities,
while the entrepreneur is to have his mem-
bership cancelled. It seems a vast fuss to
make over a trifle. The A.J.C. isn't a social
club. In fact, it contains shoals of mem-
bers whom many of the other members
wouldn’t be found dead with in a desert.
So the presence of the pugilist can hardly
be objected to on the ground that he was un-
worthy to be numbered amongst the com-
pany. ' The position is really more analogous
to that of a person who uses a friend’s
theatre-ticket, owing to the latter being un-
able to use it himself. This line of argu-
ment —admittedly a flimsy one, in view of
the fact that “not transferable” is in-
scribed on every member’s ticket—is ad-
vanced not in extenuation but rather in miti-
gation of the malfeasance of the eminent
pugilist and his friend. On the other hand,
there can be no question that the A.J.C.
committee was indiscreet in not gently warn-
ing the erring pug., and then hastily drop-
ping the affair. The club is really an irre-
sponsible body, which has _ arrogated enor-
mous powers to itself. It is not in a posi-
tion to irritate members of the public need-
lessly. In fact, its short-sightedness in caus-
ing such a disturbance over so venial an
affair is only equalled by the chief offender’s
stupidity in thinking that lie—one of the
best-known characters in the State —could
masquerade successfully as an A.J.C. mem-
ber for more than two minutes.
* * * *
The motor-car has shown that it can add
to its other tricks a lifelike imitation of a
bolting horse ; but a good bit of carelessness
is wanted to make it possible. An Adelaide
doctor’s car stuck him up at the city’s busiest
corner. So dead did .the power seem that he
neglected to shut it 'off; then, as he and a
policeman proceeded to shove the wreck to a
quieter spot by the kerb, it simply bolted,
climbed the footpath, gathered up a by-
stander, and broke ,sbout 40 square feet of
plate-glass window with him. Still, even
that was better than running amok up
King William-street at the busiest time of
afternoon.
IN ONE WORD.
“ George, dear, what do you think a car like
the Pelrol-Smylhes woul'd run you into?”
“Debt!”
“Y.Z.”: Guillaux carries the mail from
Bendigo to Ballarat, 80-odd miles, in 50-odd
minutes. I still regard myself- as something
of a kid, yet I can recall the time when I
drove a splay-legged roan over some of the
roads covered by the winged- Frenchman,
and had to swing my galled jade into the
scrub to give the road to her Majesty s
mail, carried in those days by Cobb’s coaches,
which passed with terrific whoops a,t a ten-
mile bat. I remember, too, that in those
days we called that “The Flying Mail.”
“Coot”: The members of the Victorian
Housing Committee who recently made a
report declared that they “regarded it as
deplorable that many tenements in North
Melbourne had neither bathroom nor wash-
house, and that rooms in some cases were
only eight feet in height.” If the Housing
Committee had travelled farther, it could
have discovered even more deplorable things.
I inspected one recently near Daylesford.
It consisted of a four-compartment lean-to
structure adhering to another building. The
kitchen near the fireplace was sft. Bin. high,
and at the other end attained a dizzy alti-
tude of 7ft. The largest “room” was about
10ft. by lift., and all the windows were fix-
ture's. Such a thing as a washhouse was an
undreamt-of luxury, let alone a bathroom.
The solitary tank was nearly empty, and for
three weeks the tenant and his wife had been
carting water from a neighbor’s. After
dunning the owner for over 12 months, a
verandah was erected in front; but appar-
ently funds gave out just then, for it was not
floored. Who’s the owner? Why, the Edu-
cation Department of Victoria. The dis-
reputable hutch is a school-teacher s resi-
dence. Yet Director Tait complains of the
unwillingness of his staff to go into the
country! .
* *
The most obvious way for John Bull
out of his difficulties with the militant suf-
fragettes would be to grant the suffrage ; but
of course he can’t do that now. And he , 1S
probably bursting with sorrow that he can t.
John is like a man who m simple
arrogance has refused a reasonable request
made by his wife. He retires from the
dining-room to let her have her hysterics,
but she pursues him with them, room by
room, and thrusts them on him wherever he
goes. As he retires towards the root he
wonders what made him such an ass as to
say “No” ; but he feels that now it would be
weakness to give way. He also wondeis,
vaguely, whether the hysterics will pursue
him on to the roof, and if so how long they
will stay there and which of them will tall
off first; and, if not, how long it will be
before he can come down again and use the
rooms he has furnished for his comfort and
get about his business without having his
ear shrieked into. Call the police?. Yes, of
course—and have all the brutes talking about
it and pointing him out as the man who
caved in!
There was an amazing
amount of luck attached
to the big railway smash
at Whangamarino in
Maoriland recently. In
the mail van next to the
engine the three sorters
had just finished work
when they heard the
alarm whistle. They ran
to the front of the van
to see what was wrong.
The next instant the
crash came, and the
back portion of the
mail van, right up to
where the three sorters
had been a moment
before, was crushed to
matchwood. In the
smashed-up sleeper just
behind, where three pas-
sengers were killed, the
carriage was practically
a pile of kindling wood,
with the gas escaping in
all directions. One of
the injured men pinned
in the wreckage made
several attempts to light
a match, but failed.
Lying a few feet away,
unable to move, there
was an Australian who
had been in another big
smash, knew the danger
of lighting a match, and
passed the hint to the
others. “If anyone lights
a match here,” he said
calmly, “we’re all done
for.” Of the 11 occu-
pants of the sleeper eight
came out of the wreckage
alive. But for the luckv
chance that one of them had been through
the same experience before, there would
have been 11 victims instead of three.
* * * *
The Law has just distinguished itself
again in Melbourne. The traffic regulations
provide that no motor vehicle on city streets
shall have a greater width than 7ft. Sin. ;
but when a ’bus co. lately sent an Bft.
char-a-banc for police inspection, the im-
possible vehicle was duly passed and regis-
tered, on payment of the usual £5. As
soon, however, as it went out on business
the law pounced on it and had the chauffeur
fined £l. And apparently all that the
owners can do is to grumble in an utterly
futile manner that somebody has taken them
down for a fiver.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The N.S.W. Labor party,
which is now as solidly organised in the
municipal as it is in the Parliamentary field,
will make housing a foremost plank at the
next council elections. The workmen’s dwell-
ings erected by the City Council in Chip-
pendale have been a financial success, and
moreover have converted an area which used
to be mostly squalor into a presentable place
where 250 persons are living decently and
healthily—or as healthily as they' can in
city areas. There are large numbers of
workers who must live, or fancy they_ must
live, close to their work. The conversion of
city slum areas into business blocks has
driven these people out; but instead of going
right away they have attempted to crowd
into the already-congested nearer suburbs.
Their crush has had the effect of raising
the rents in these places enormously, and in
order to meet the rents the people share
houses. Stanmore, which, a very few years
ago, was mostly a suburb of private resi-
dences, is now full of people who whack
the house and the rent, or let rooms, or let
the whole of the house and sleep under the
stars. Now Stanmore is one_ of the most
decent of the suburbs; areas within the City
boundaries are nightmares by comparison.
But when houses that were built merely for
one family are occupied there by three,
conditions are liable to become so tangled
that it is almost up to the Labor people to
throw the marriage-bursting gibe back into
the faces of their Fat rent-collecting oppo-
nents. » * *
The Anglo-Saxon’s knell is kuolled- —or
however you spell it. A fierce correspondent
writes to the S. M. Herald to say:—
What this country needs is a million Americans to
introduce up-to-date business methods, a million Ger-
mans to give stability of character, a million French-
men to impart civility, and a million Scandinavians
to help develop the country.
Not one word, among all these millions, for
Good Old British Pluck or Grand English
Doggedness or Sterling Saxon Honesty!
What’s coming over these fierce Herald cor-
respondents lately?
THE SUPER-RACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We pondered liow to raise a race
Alert of brain and staunch of thew,
So that in time we might efface
The track of this degenerate crew;
Around us people cried, “Bravo!
You have the right sow by the ear ;
If previous folk had acted so
A different tribe would flourish here.”
We neared the mystic Marriage brink,
And gazed therein not undismayed.
“No man should mate who owns a kink
In brain or brawn,” we bravely said.
We told the throng: “We hesitate.”
They cheered again with loud “Bravo
For them who weigh, before they mate,
The chance of racial weal or woe!”
And, as our Wisdom daily grew,
Our hesitancy waxed the more,
For daily we more clearly knew
The risk of wreck on Hymen’s shore.
Our fears we told the listening throng
Who rent the sky with triple cheer
To find we held it grievous wrong
By haste to mar the Future dear.
The years went speeding swiftly by,
And still we paused in wise delay,
And wavered still with dubious sigh
’Twixt Marion fair and stately May ;
Our fitness still we brooded o’er,
Her fitness, too, was none too clear —
Confused by deep eugenic lore
Our vital craft we could not steer.
And all our brave applauders told
With pride what noble men were we,
For, stout and staunch as Stoics old,
We’d dropped the hope of progeny;
But while they raised the psean so,
And in our loud laudation vied,
Themselves they warmed at Hymen’s glow,
And gat them wives—and multiplied!
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


RAT-TRAP POLITICS.
The free worker is indebted to the Cook Government for its efforts to abolish Preference to Unionists.— Tory press.
The rat, however, is rather suspicious.


MARCHING TO DESTRUCTION.
He did not care which road Democracy took, it would land in ruin from which it would take ages to emerge.— Willie Watt Qt the Vic. Chamber of Manufactures.
WORKING DEMOCRAT: “Where does this track lead to, matey?”
DEADBEAT WATT: Ruin! Every track’ll lead you to ruin!”
WORKING DEMOCRAT: “Well, so long!”


ECONOMICAL COPYING in up
the virtues of the Zaneiic system. for 2d.
stamps' will enable you to-test itsi permanency and
efficiency. , Zanetic Wofks, -Leicester, England.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINfiCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
F or
QUALITY,
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [3
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
LUX
is the best washing preparation tor
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
lever brothers
LIMITED SVONEV-
I M«‘7>
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Umfaan” : So Bob Lee, chairman of the
Wellington (M.L.) Education Board, has re-
signed. Well, it was a natural consequence of
his great age.
Lee was one of
the old school,
wh o believed
that it was the
duty of a school
inspector t o
“rouse” upon
teachers ha rd
and often. I
met him once
in a country
sell o o 1. He
stormed over
some fancied
delinquencies in
front of the
pupils, until the
teacher suggest-
ed mildly that
there were two
methods where-
by Lee could
make his exit,
the window and
the door, and
he could have
his pick of
them. Lee chose
the door, uuhL
promptly .• ' r e-"*
ported the mat-
ter to the
Board. To his
a s t o nishment
that body up-
held the teacher,
whereupon Lee
went for a trip
to the : “Old
Country” ■ and
resigned. Later
he stood as a
candidate for
the Board, was
returned head
of the poll, and
settled down to
a steady job in
the chair.
F. S. WALLIS, M.L.C.,
ex-labor Minister of S. A.
Barratt, the great Pears’ Soap man, is
dead. He joined the firm in 1865, when the
capital was £7000; now it is over £BOO,OOO.
It was he who gave £2500 for Millais’s
“Bubbles.” Millais was furious when he
found it a poster, but later perceived the
value of the advt. Other famous purchases
of his were “You Dirty Boy” and “He Won’t
Be Happy Till He Gets It” (which at-
tracted no attention when it appeared first as
“A Knight of the Bath”). Once Barratt
imported half a million French pennies,
stamped “Pears” on them, and distributed
them at 14 for a shilling. The Government
had to buy them up, melt them down, and
forbid the circulation of foreign money by
Act-of Parliament, In one year he spent.,
£126.000 on advertising, and his average*
was £lOO,OOO. - .
Andrew Knox, one of the pioneers of deep
gold mining in Australia, has just died at
Petersham (N.S.W.), aged 81 years. His
quartz battery was the first that -ever rattled
on the old Castlemaine field in Victoria.
Ma’s State Treasurer is hoping for a
windfall in death duties when the estate of
the late Alfred Stokes, the big squatter of
the Forbes district, is granted probate. Local
estimates put down the amount collected by
the deceased Croesus at well over half a
million. It was the gold rush of 1861 that
attracted him to Forbes, but it was real
estate, purchased with his winnings from the
field, that mostly piled up his fortune. He
sat in the Assembly for a few years in the
’9o’s, but otherwise was little known
publicly.
Unkind and uncalled-for sentence from the
S. M. Herald, with regard to Miss Eadith
Walker’s alleged gift of her two-rgomed
cottage for G.-G. Munro Ferguson’s use
when lie’s in Sydney
Ihr name seldom 'figures in published donation lists,
but it is well known that she has been a munificent
contributor to almost every deserving philanthropic
institution.
Unintentional, no doubt; but the meaning
seems to be that the right hand knoweth
well what the left hand doetli.
M.L. Inspector-General of Schools llog-
ben (call him 1 lobeh) is about due to retire
on superannuation. He. has been 33 years
in the department, and for the last 15 of
them has held his present position. It is
expected that Assistant-Inspector-General
Dr. Win.. Anderson will climb into the
chief’s chair. If he does no reasonable per-
son will be entitled to complain.
Chief Justice Dodds, of Tasmania, is about
to retire after 27 years in the shade of the
sheltering horsehair. Some time ago (1848,
to be strictly accurate) he was born in Eng-
land and escaped from there at an early age.
In 1872 he commenced to collect “refreshers”
at Hobart, and a few years later took to
politics. In ’7B he entered the Assembly,
and, in turn, was Leader of the House,
Attorney-General (in several Governments)
and Treasurer. The year 1887 found him
on the Bench as a Puisne Judge, and in
1898 lie was appointed Chief Justice. All
the “crooks” that ever came before him for
sentence will give him this character: “He
was a good-’earted cove.”
Australia’s oldest native-born artist, Wil-
liam Charles ' Piguonit, has been having a
hard tussle with ill-health. Appendicitis
was the trouble, and his 77 years are handi-
capping his recovery. Piguenit spent his
early days as assistant draughtsman in Tas-
mania’s Survey Department. Eventually
he broke loose from the office and was the
first artist of note to paint the wild moun-
tain and lake scenery of the Speck’s Western
Highlands. On his return to Hobart, in
Robert Hamilton’s time, the Governor’s wife
suggested that the pictures should be bought
by the State ; Which was done, a special Act
being passed for the purpose. In 'BO Pigue-
nit went to Sydney (where he now lives)
and helped to found the Royal Art Society.
His painting of Mount Koscuisko, hanging
in the N. S. Wales Gallery, was a £2OO com-
mission from the Trustees.
Maorilander J. S. Nicol, who. was a
farmer and something more, passed over
recently at Auckland, aged only. 37. Born
on a station" ini- the' South Island, he
■ tVihk’'ffiPst ;; to mining and then to farming;
but in his spare time he was always a geo-
logist. He got together a great collection
of M.L. fossils, and when Profs. Sinnott and
Barnes, of Havard (U.S.A.), toured M.L.
a couple of years ago, it was to farmer Nicol
they went for information. They departed
with a cwt. or two of his specimens. Dr.
Lillie, of Scott’s Antarctic Expedition, bor-
rowed a few more of the same collection to
take to Britain, and shortly before the
young geologist’s death he received a letter
from Cambridge highly praising his research
and desiring to retain the specimens for
’Varsity use.
The Myall Creek (X.S.W.) massacre was
recalled the other day, when the old station
was sold, lock, stock and barrel. In con-
nection with that massacre of 2S men, women
and children, John Hubert Plunkett did just
about the best service ever rendered to Black
Brother in these parts. For the barbarity,
then thought nothing of, Plunkett, who hap-
pened to be Attorney-General, put eight men
on their trial, and in pressing the matter —
there had to be two trials —was compelled to
■ light the most powerful people of the day.
Some of the odium stuck to him till he died,
and was even attached to his widow, who
had to go without the pension which other-
wise might have pome to her. Plunkett, after
responsible government was granted, became
member for Argyle, and was for a little time
President of the Legislative Council. He
belonged to the family of Oliver Plunkett,
Archbishop of Armagh, and brought with
him to Australia some heirlooms, of the great
prelate, which his widow passed over to Car-
dinal Moran in Sydney.
Archdeacon Calder, of Auckland (M.L.),
dropped in on Sydney the other day. He is
one of those rare pilots who make uncom-
fortable remarks about hypocrites and other
rascals that he can
see from his pul-
pit. He continu-
ally hurls squirm-
producing elo-
quence in the di-
rection of those
people who go to
church on Sunday
in order to be able
to oppress, with a
relieved conscience,
tint widow and the
orphan for the rest
of ithe week. One
of ‘ the Arch-
deac o n ’ s i>arti e u 1 a r
objects of scorn is
the stout owner of
slum dwellings who
attends church in
a high hat and a
smug countenance,
and be recently in-
timated that there
w e r e occasions
when homicide was
justifiable. In short
(’abler is a man
who is occasionally
mistaken for a
clergyman much
to the credit of the
clergy.
SINCLAIR,
Maoriland rep.
on the Dominions
Commission.
Bishop Nevill, of Dunedin, Anglican Pri-
mate of Maori land, has put up something of
a record by bishing there for 43 years. This
is almost a world’s record, the only Anglican
on the planet who can show a better per-
formance being his Gaiters of Missouri
(U.S.) —and he is an Anglican once-removed,
so to speak.
“Billy” Williams, one of Sydney’s best
known law-court reporters, signed off Life’s
duty book a few days ago. He was edu-
cated for the law, but dropped into the Inky
Way, and was practically never out of it
until his death. Ilis experience was vari-
ously gathered in Australia, and, in Sydney,
he had at different periods helped the old
Illustrated News, The Star, The Sun
and Daily Telegraph to pay the bills
at the end of the week. lie was handed
tough luck latterly. Illness harried him
more or less, and other anxieties were his
daily shadows. The only satisfaction his
friends can find in his passing is that his
troubles are ended.
Col. Ferguson, who died suddenly in an
Adelaide street on June 18,. was a good mix-
ture of business man and soldier. His father
was prominent in Victorian defence matters
in Crimean days, and young George Fer-
guson was in the Williamstown artillery
soon after. Since 1882 he had been in
South Aus., where he held every post pos-
sible as a gunner, and was officer command-
ing tlig; artillery when he died. In business,
shippihg*r!lways claimed him, either mari-
time or river. He did good work for Dal-
gety and McCulloch in turn, and later
worked up a big trade on the Murray for
his own firm. He was just on 68 at the end.
Some more Captain Cook letters are to be
sold at Sotheby’s, in London; likewise the
diary and letter-book of Ralph Clarke, Lieu-
tenant of Marines in the First Fleet. Five
other First Fleet officers are known to have
kept diaries, but Clarke’s seems to have been
the only one which has survived. He has
this characteristic entry : “May 28V Flogged
this day, John Bennett, convict/ with 87
lashes, for breaking out of irons. A young
man, but an old rogue.” No printed list of
First Fleet convicts catalogues John
Bennett, nor any one of the name of Ben-
nett, so the very junior officer’s diary is per-
haps not so exact as it might be.
Only a vote or two prevented Miss May
Matthews carrying the Labor standard in the
battle for the North Sydney seat at the com-
ing Federal elections. The lady is one of
the best-known women in the Labor move-
ment, and at every election there is a rush for
her services as an organiser. She has been
the chief spokesman on the recent deputations
asking for an extension of political and- judi-
cial rights for women. When she is not
organising she is a typist, and an executive
member of the Clerks’ Union. If she had
secured selection she would have been the
first woman in the Ma State to run for Par-
liament as an endorsed Labor candidate.
There have been several women candidates for
selection, but none of them so nearly suc-
ceeded. Miss Selina Anderson, who was
also connected with the Labor movement,
once went to the ballot, but without endorse-
ment.
Dead in Adelaide, at 70, Robert Knuckey,
expert in the vague spaces of Centralia. The
biggest things he did were as a young man.
He was with Goyder when Port Darwin was
surveyed, and a street in the town bears his
name. He was with Todd, from 1870 to
1872, laying the transcontinental telegraph
line that linked-up Australia’s capitals with
Europe, and in 1876 he had the job of run-
ning the wires westward from Port Augusta
to Eucla.
“Sammy” Cracknell,. the famous light-
weight jockey of long ago, is nowadays a
prosperous farmer at Panton Hill, about 30
miles from Melbourne. Although nearly 70
years of age, he is fresh and young-looking.
He hasn’t added to his old height of 4ft.
lOjin., and still weighs only 6st. 71b.; but
he has accumulated a family of big, tall sons
and little grown-up daughters. His once cele-
brated flowing red beard is now faded and
grey and is cut square. Offered a mount once
by a well-known racehorse owner if he’d cut
off his beard, he refused ; but the owner gave-
in at the last moment and the whiskers won
by a hair. Sammy read an account of his own
death after the big Caulfield catastrophe when
he was among the 16 that fell. He was car-
ried off the course apparently hopelessly in-
jured, but “ginger for pluck,” and he lived to
ride many winners afterwards.
The news that Churchill looks to Persia
to supply the Navy with oil will make one
bad Australian happier. Morganaire
D’Arcy—bad Australian because he quitted
the country when lie had made his money—
was the man who pushed these Persian oil-
fields to the front. An American general in
the Persian service had the concessions
originally, and D’Arcy bought them from him.
The Australian spent a heap of money in
prospecting, etc., and that is said to be one
reason why Captain Richard, the former
manager of Mount Morgan, tried to make
that mine and plant do more work a few
years ago than they were properly able to
do. Nowadays the concessions are held by
the Burmah Oil Co., with D'Arcy as a sort of
partner, holding a one-fourth interest.
GOV.-GEN. MUNRO FERGUSON.
Melbourne women are pushing along—
five or more of them have passed the exami-
nation entitling them to serve as boiler at-
tendants.
DIVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop Barlow, of Goiilburn, visited Cootamundra
in connection with the induction of the Rev. E. U.
Lewin to the Anglican parish. During an impressive
discourse the Bishop asked: “Was it a crime to be
rich? Not at all.” —Sydney D. T.
Now Dives sat in the foremost pew, and his rings
were large and gay.
The Bishop droned as a Bishop should in a deep and
cosy way ;
He dropped his cushions of speech around, and handed
the cooling draught;
And Dives glowed above and below, and gleamed
ahead and abaft;
He flicked the fluff from his well-brushed coat and
drummed on his shining hat,
As the Bishop told him sweetly it was proper to
Look Like That —■ •
That God approved of forward bulge and admired
his splendid fat.
The Bishop put it to him that he could hang to
his golden prize,
And made no mention of camels’ humps, and bother-
some needles’ eyes ;
So long as he helped the Good Work on he was bound
to get Inside;
So he could bloat at his ease in peace and sprawl on
his acres wide.
He quoted his terms, the Bishop did, and the rich
man breathed them in,
And what he dropped on the passing plate made a
loud, resounding din.
He had so much he could pay the i>rice to be
branded “Free From Sin.”
N.SAV.
INSOLVENT AND D—D.


m
il
/
\\ N
i*
k
rf&fß
mk
fd
wmm
t±!3rh : r£ : S_
•#Ji
TO
AUS
MUy
■lf Jf'
fci
»
V^
#i
’.sf v ill
.'• i*i *% !
HI
'y ,vfvS^^S
,VC j ,;p_
*m
Wmte&m
!i
NS
tm
wSmk
«pfc
m
m
IMM
K/tf/ *'■ >"‘Ss'*
•:. I
P&3
1
2Wfg2»p?i
IS
I::-.-
SM?.
<7
a v
\\
m
ft
■si
w-vmmr ■•"' -'o*l
:iyH
..ms tSajiRLM
mm
\y
ls§<
l |V
eg
t
SMjpgSjXflg
pm
M
Mrs
-te* J
Ifel m
■: /.: * X n?.U‘ ?■'*>»? '• l J*>i>SUßt*
:i“KI
A* &
Sir
aSSSBK
i*
fefc.’
#>■
IM%W
Jm.
eJs
M
I
sss&
\W^S
S\>
=^=
1/
I? j
■ s ■
MR •
RUGS AT SALE PRICES.
R
UGTIME is round again—so is our Midwinter Sale—and there is nothing better than the
rugs of our old friends, J. VICARS & Co., of Marrickville. They are pure wool—all
wool and nothing but wool —made by Australians for Australians.
The Bosker Rug (as hPove) is an extra large size—Bft. 4111. x 6ft. Bin. It will cover a double
bed and hano- over the sides. It will wrap around your legs and keep you warm, riding,
motoring or travelling by land or sea. For an all-round knock-about rug there is nothing
better. Usual Price, 21/-; Sale Price, 18/11.
The Marrickville Rug, 7ft. x s ft„ is made of all pure merino wool showing a fancy pattern on
one side and plain color on the other. It is the best value on the market for 3 5/-; Sale 1 1 ice, 5 I/O.
The Austral, 7ft. x 5 ft. our special high-grade line —is a very heavy rug suitable for high climes
and nippy times. Is made of the very best quality merino wool—plain on one side and iancy
pattern on the other. Usual Price, 5% > Sale Puce, 45/*
ALL WOOL AUSTRALIAN BLANKETS (in White or Grey)
Single Bed - - Usual Price, 18/-; Sale Price, 16/3
Three-Quarter Size Usual Price, 25|6 ; Sale Price, 23/-
Full Size
Extra Large -
Usual Price, 32/6; Sale Price, 29/3
Usual Price, 37/6; Sale Price, 33/9
GOWING BROS.,
EVERYTHING REDUCED LESS 2/- IN THE £,
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; & 3,5, 7, 9,11,13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY
Send for Sale Catalogue of 120 Pages of Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear.
All Orders Carriage Paid as usual.


Hi * h - Class Woodworking Machinery $ Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let. us have your enquiries. “ INGECO M FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow l —
and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hund—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Uobkkt Harper & Co., Ltd. (Melb.). —
Early this year Robert Harper s old-established inter-
state firm of rice and starch and oatmeal manufac-
turers, etc., put itself into a eo., in which the
public took £120,000 in 7 p.c. cumulative pref.
shares. This lot was taken up privately, before the
issue of any prospectus, and most of them went
into a very few hands. Two lots of ordinaries have
been issued —240,000 “A's,” of which 155,000 went
to the vendors, alone' with £85,000 in cash, and
0470 “B’s.” As a matter of fact, the cash considera-
tion was also taken in shares. The total capital is
therefore £866,470. In return for the £240,000 paid in
cash oi' shares to the vendors, the latter handed’
over net tangible assets valued at about £160,000.
The balance was represented by goodwill, trade-
marks, etc., which stand in the first accounts now
issued at £80,920. No doubt the business connec-
tion, built up in 50 years, is worth a lot of money;
but since it depends upon management, it is an
item which ought to be written-down out of profits
with considerable speed. What it really means is
this: Robert Harper, having an uncommon capacity
for organising, got together and held a fine trade,
with the assistance of his sons and others. But
because Robert Harper and his assistants have been
able to do that, it doesn't follow that John Jones
and his assistants will be able to do it; and the
time must come when the responsibility will rest
with John Jones, inasmuch as Robert Harper and
his proved colleagues are not immortal. It perhaps
is true that there are as good fish in the sea as
ever were caught. But the man who goes out with
a hook and half-a-pound of bait and says “I’m going
to catch that fish” is liable to return home disap-
pointed. The fish as-good-as-ever-was-caught may
be there; but Heaven only knows what hook it will
dangle on. It may be this firm’s ; it is just as likely
to be a rival firm’s.
For the 12 months to the end of March the co.
shows a profit of £17,085, which is cut up this
way:—•
Prefs. 7 p.c. from dates when the cash
came in .. .. .. .. .. £1,671
“A',’ Ordinaries, 6 p.c. (full year) . . 14,400
“B” Ordinaries, 41 p.c. (full year) .. 291
Unappropriated .. .. .. .. 722
Total £17,084
The figures can hardly be taken as a guide to what
next year’s should be. For instance, the £120,000
of pref. capital has, on the averagie, been in the
business only about 10 weeks, and no doubt it
replaced borrowed capital; and on borrowed capital
£12,855 was paid by way of interest during the
year. There is still a heavy debt (deposits, mort-
gages and overdrafts alone run to £131,642) ; but
it seems likely that for the current year the interest
outgoings will be only about half of what they were#
last year. In other words, the pref. capital will
save the co. (say) £6OOO a year interest. The new
money will, however, have to be worth a good deal
more than that to the co. to enable the latter to pay
7 p.c. on the prefs. and 6 p.c. on the ordinaries.
It may be that last year was an unfavorable trading
year; but the co. will be lucky if it doesn’t meet
with a good many that are more unfavorable. On
the present figures it looks as though the co. will
have to work hard to return the vendors 6 p.c. on
the price at which they valued the concern. The pro-
spectus figures were much more favorable: the net
profits for the previous 91 years, before paying in-
terest on borrowed capital, w’ere said to have
averaged £32,874. In any case, the prefs. are
all right. True, there is a pretty heavy
debt which comes in ahead of even them; but if
the co. can’t show the requisite £B4OO a year after
providing for interest on mortgage, overdraft, etc.,
the business is a lot less profitable than it is believed
to be.
* * * *
Goldsbrougii, Mort and Co., Limited,
the wool people:—
Net Interest Paid on Added to Re-
Mar., Earnings. Debenture Stocks, etc. Reserves, serves.
1904.. £84,723 All stock 4 p.c. = £78,089 £6,634 £11,957
1905.. 95,459 All stock 4 „,, 78,023 17,436 29,393
(A stock 4 ~ ~ loc iraj
1906.. 181,8171 B stock 5 „ „ / ’ > 68,765 98,158
I 5 p.c. div. „ 27,950 I
f A stock 4 ~ ~ 46,897)
1907.. 220,675{ B stock 5 ~ ~ 36,385 [ 81,493 179,651
110 p.c. div. ~ 55,900 I
f A stock 4 ~ „ 43,286)
1908.. 160,147 { B stock 5 „ „ 36,079 • 24,882 204,533
(10 p.c. div. ~ 55,900 I
7 A stock 4 ~ ~ 42,724)
1909 . 162,390 { B stock 5 „„ 35,716 - 12,079 216,612
(126-7p.c. div. = 71,871 J
I A stock 4 p.c. = 42,122 )
1910.. 241,916 { B stock 5 „„ 34,718 - 81,227 297,839
115 p.c. div. ~ 83,849 1
Transferred to Capital, £79,856 .. 217,983
I A stock 4 p.c = 40,962)
1911.. 345,929- B stock 5 „„ 32,312 ) 144,885 362,868
120 p.c. div. „ 127,770 I
Transferred to Capital, £63,885 .. 298,983
( A stock 4 p.c. = 40,128 )
1912.. 382,101 1 B stock 5 „„ 33,697 V 167,728 466,711
/20 p.c. div. ~ 140,548 J
(A stock 4 ~ ~ 39,759)
1913 v 202,499-! B stock 5 „„ 33,388 > 23,941 490,652
(15 p.c. div. ~ 105,411)
f A stock 4 ~ ~ 39,745 )
1914.. 224,3594 B stock 5 „ „ 33,269 - 10,797 501,449
(20 p.c. div. ~ 140,548 )
Share capital is £702,737, debenture stock,
£1,642,118, liabilities on trade, deposit and other
accounts, £144,908, making with the reserves a
total of £2,991,212. This big sum is represented
on the other side by £1,970,640 of advances and
£360,154 of station properties and stock, with the
balance in store and office premises and liquid assets.
Ten years ago the freeehold and leasehold (station)
properties and stock were in the books at £1,051,656.
Since then the country has had a remarkable series
of good years; and this co. has been steadily
unloading its properties at high values. The gradu-
ated land tax threatened to tread on its toes, and
there was a howl of apprehension as the boot
descended. But somehow almost any old thing seems
able to fatten the fat pig—even stuff fed in to
thin the animal down a bit. Here, for example,
when the tax came along, a fine demand for wheat
land was created (that was a clever bit of business,
by the way), and station freeholds were cut up and
passed on at almost boom prices. If the incoming
owners had to pay land tax the price would, of
course, have been affected ; but with a liberal exemp-
tion the newcomer didn’t have to' pay anything,
so the big owner mostly got a price for the land ‘
as substantial as if no tax were in existence.
Simultaneously, wool and stock had a good market,
and owners who found it inconvenient to hang on to
big freeholds looked for leaseholds farther out
instead of altogether quitting the business.
That movement has put a heap of money into the
pockets of this and other cos. which were left
with very big- lumps of leasehold country in the
dreadful early ’9o’s. One Far Western N.S.W. squat-
tage (this co. wasn’t interested) was valued a few
years ago at 12s. a head ; that is to say, you could
have got the whole thing, lock, stock and barrel, by
paying 12s. a head for the sheep. A while later it
was sold for 255. a head. Still later —quite recently,
in fact—it was sold again for 40s. a head, a price
which would have been simply staggering- to the
poor beggars who went out in the early ’9o’s, after
perhaps 30 years’ battling, with nothing but what
they had in their portmanteaus. It was, no doubt,
largely the sale of properties at prices far in excess
of book values which produced this co.’s thumping
profits of a few years back; and there may bo a
bit dropping in from the same source now. Also,
there is still some to drop in. Vindex station, for
instance, was sold by this co. only a few weeks
ago—since the present accounts were made up.
In another way luck has been working overtime for
those shareholders who didn’t allow themselves to be
crowded out in the days when a terribly gloomy view
was officially taken of the future. Except for six
months a couple of years ago there has been prac-
tically no general drought in Australia for just upon
a decade. This means that there has been no holo-
caust among the stock ; if owners haven’t kept sheep
too long and allowed them to die of old age (the
natural mortality among sheep is a serious thing
after they are about five years old), practically the
whole increase has been marketable ; and the market
has been sweet all the time. Further, while the co.
has been making this profit on its own property, it
has been harvesting unusually fine commissions from
sales of other people’s fat clips at fat prices.
In the three years 1902-3-4 the profits averaged
only £82,600, and after paying interest on the
debenture stock there was altogether less than
£9OOO left over —too little to pay even a micro-
scopic dividend. Australia is the same country now
as it was then, and the climate hasn’t altered much
in that time. Is it a fair thing, then, to expect this
co. to pass through the same troubles again? Possi-
bly there never will be such shameful overstocking.
But it is no use saying- owners and managers in the
old days didn’t know overstocking Was dangerous.
The fact in most cases was they had paid too- much
and got too heavily into debt, and When prices of
wool and stock slumped they were desperate. If
prices of stock and wool slumped again many of them
would once more be desperate, in view of ithe prices
they have paid and the advances this and other cos.
have made. The future, then, depends on two things
(1) the weather; (2) the markets. They are both
uncertain cattle. Nothing, however, is much surer
than this: there will be droughts, and even if large
quantities of securities are not again thrown On the
mortgagees’ hands, the profits of G., Mort and Co. and
others will temporarily crumple up because (1) pro-
fits on property sales will stop—they can't go on
indefinitely in any case; (2) there will be precious
little net. increase of stock, and consequently very
little to sell at high prices ; (3) commissions on wool
and other sales will dwindle.
One reasonable question for the investor is: “Out
of this 20 p.c. div. how much ought I to regard
as abnormal, or is the co,. making provision for
reserves to tide oyer the bad times?’ Certainly
the co. is making reserves. The visible ones (and
some other things) are shown in this table; —
~ , 1904. 1913. 1914.
Capital .. .. £558.995 £702,737 £702,737
Reserves .. .. 11,957 560',926 606,859
Debentures .. .. 1,952.220 1,662 088 1,642,118
Other liabilities . . 164,028 239,677 144.908
Liquid assets . . 8fi,650 589,066 513,461
Advances, properties
et e- - . . . 2,229.697 2,308,153 2,330,793
Premises, etc. . . 368,843 268,208 252,368
But the co. does not profess to he making reserves
adequate for the equalisation of dividends at 20 p.c.
On the contrary, it pays 10 p.c. nominally as a divi-
dend and the other 10 p.c. as a bonus; and that
latter is a reasonable hint that the present profits
are the result of exceptionally favorable circum-
stances. And the investment market should be more
or less governed accordingly.
The National Bank of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tas.) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
May, 1906.. 5696 6 p.c. = 4789 1000 34,240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6 „ „ 4789 1460 35,700
May, 1907..9077 7 „ „ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7 „ „ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
May, 1908.. 8793 7 „ ~ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7 ~ ~ 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 „ ~ 5587 2701 48.957
Nov., 1909.. 7647 7 „ „ 5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910..-8115 7 „ „ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910.. 8058 7 „ „ 5654 2404 55.815
Mav, 1911.. 8127 7 „ „ 5587 2540 58,355
Nov., 1911.. 7110 7 ~,, 5587 1523 59,878
Mav, 1912..8828 7 „ „ 5587 1000 2241 62,119
Nov., 1912..7906 7 ~ ~ 5587 2319 64,438
Mav, 1913.. 8656 7 „ „ 5587 3069 67,507
Nov., 1913.’.8762 7 „ „ 5587 1500 1675 69.182
May, 1914..9393 7 ~ „ 5587 1000 2806 71,988
This bank confines itself entirely to Tasmania, where
it has a head office and 15 branches. Naturally,
under those conditions, Tasmania being small and
unprogresejive, business has not grown as fast as the
Biblical pumpkin. At the same time, having its
interests entirely within Tasmania, it is not affected
by Suffragette outbursts or Ulster Revolutions like
many similar institutions. Partly because Tas-
mania has been having a comparatively good time
•of late, and partly because the directors have wisely
stuck to a moderate 7 p.c. dividend, the National
has. to all appearances, got into a very snug position—
with a reservation on one point to be mentioned later.
As regards current business, an idea of how things
have been moving can be formed from these figures:
Liabilities.
May, ’l3. May, ’l4.
Notes in circulation £5,317 £4,626 Dec. £691
Bills, etc 29,932 21,854 Dec. 8,078
Deposits at interest.. 300,968 343,243 Inc. 42.275
Free deposits.. .. 349,047 356,788 Inc. 7,741
Assets.
Liquid assets . . . . 203,262 228,142 Inc. 24,880
Advances 678,898 702,318 Inc. 23,402
Premises, etc 28,238 26,666 Dec. 1,572
Current-account deposits have not shown much move-
ment —only £7741 increase in 12 months. Against
that and £42,275 more fixed-deposit money £28,880
more liquid assets are held. But even now, though
things have thus improved a little, liquid assets in
proportion to the liabilities are, and have been for
some years, on the weak side. Total liabilities are
£726,511, and liquid assets amount to only £228,142,
or less than one-third. In the event of a sudden call
for money the bank might be in a tight place, especi-
ally as, if trouble came, it would be liable to affect
practically all the branches. Given time to realise
securities, the bank is, on the other hand, excep-
tionally well-placed, there being only £3 4s. 9d. of
outside money for every £1 of the shareholders'.
In fact, nearly double the amount of deposits might
be safely taken if the liquid-asset position were kept
stronger.
One result of letting out such a large proportion
of the public’s and other funds is that the profits,
calculated on capital and reserves combined, are very
attractive. Here is the return for recent years:—
Nov., 1909.. £7 12 2p.c. Mav, 1912. . £8 6 7p.c.
Mav, 1910.. 7 19 11 „ Nov., 1912.. 7 7 8 „
Nov., 1910.. 7 16 10 „ Mav. 1913.. 7 19 11 „
May, 1911.. 7 16 4 „ Nov, 1913.. 7 19 8 „
Nov., 1911.: 6 15 2 „ May, 1914.. 8 9 10 „
One would judge from this (though the evidence isn’t
conclusive) that the assets are not over-valued. In
fact, the only serious criticism that can be offered
on the figures relates to the disposition to keep so
little money in hand that when clients may very
badly want a lift, the bank is liable not to be in a
position to give it.
The Electric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council:—
Sinking Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Loss. bution. Off. Fund.
£4,794
1904.. £1,921 £1,767 £6,7-15
1905 . 661 2,045 £1404 8,780
I Loan dotation expenses, £787 .. 9,567
Profit.
1906 ' 8,048 3,349 1400 2,319
1 Net profit on loan flotation, £357 .. 1,96'2
1907..
{Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,063
Goodwill Empire" Co., £31,000 . . 3.9,063
Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 19,763
Profit. Sinking- Fupd. Written Off.
19,144, 3,587 1400 2,019
1908..
( Goodwill of purchases, £79,375 . . 81,394
J Lets Loan premiums, £ 1000 .. 80,394
j Profit). Sinking- Fund. Written Off.
V 17,697 4,652 62,697
1909.. 37,371 5,211 25,326
Loan expenses, £627. . .. .. 25,953
Reserves.
1910.. 45,471 6,999 19,518
1911.. 61,441 6,999 80,959
1912.. 79,489 9.216 160,448
Goodwill Redfern purchase, £20,000 140,448
Loan discounts, £7497 . . .. 132.951
1913.. 105,531 11,368 238,482
This enterprise started without any goodwill or other
loading except for a trifle of preliminary exes. As
the table shows, the whole of the capital borrowed
to begin with and put into the business, lets £4794,
was represented by tangible assets. At that time
there were four cos. supplying electric light and
power in competition with the Council, whose works
were sufficient to supply all their customers. As
there wasn't much fat for anybody in a long fight,
and as the cos. were amenable to reason, arrange-
ments were made by which the private concerns were
bought out. They kept their plants, merely under-
taking to disperse them, and got fixed sums' for dis-
turbance and goodwill. Redfern, the continuation of
the city on the south, has been running its own muni-
cipal works. A year ago very much the same arrange-
ment was made with the council of that suburb as
had been made with the cos., with the result that
another £20,000 dropped in among the goodwill or
paper assets. The goodwills are being gradually
written down, but they still stand at £74,503 in the
books. With that explanation we can show now how
the reserves are arrived at in the foregoing table: —
Book value of goodwill . . . . £74,503
Loan flotations and other expenses . . 9,497
Total paper assets .. .. . . £84,000
Less Sinking Fund .. ..£59,631
Depreciation Fund . . 150,221
Renewals Reserve . . 44,087
Capital Reserve . . 13,300
P. and L. Account . . 55,243
322,482
Reserves (including Depreciation and
Renewals funds) .. . . .. £238,482
In other words, if the plant and other property are
worth what they stand at in the books, then the
tangible assets are worth £238,482 more than the
corporation has borrowed; while if it is necessary to
Write off the amounts put aside in the depreciation
and renewals funds, the surplus is £44,174. For 10
years’, work this is a very satisfactory result, especi-
ally in view of the fact that for the goodwills alone
£130,375 has been paid.
Of course, everything depends on whether sufficient
amounts have been spent on renewals or put into the
depreciation and renewals reserve to counterbalance
the wear and tear of the plant. In that connection
it has to be remembered that something besides
actual wear and tear has to be provided for. Where
there is no competition it may not be necessary for
a concern to keep its plant right up to date; where
there is keen competition, as in this case, a machine
has to be scrapped when it becomes obsolete—and
machines nowadays are liable to become obsolete with
staggering swiftness. Nobody can say positively
what amount should be put by to cover this risk.
There are two reserves, as before-mentioned —the de-
preciation and the renewals. The former is credited
with an annual 3 p.c. of the total capital expenditure ;
the amount last year was £41,365. To the renewals fund
£14,924 was added —something more than another 1
p.c. It is open to doubt whether 4 p.c. is a suffi-
cient cover. In Melbourne, with a rather longer ex-
perience, something more than that has been deemed
necessary; and it probably will be in this case also.
On last year’s figures the enterprise can stand more.
As shown above, the net revenue, after paying work-
ing exes, and interest, was £105,531. Deduct the
£56,289 for the two depreciation reserves, and there
is £49,242 left —really the true net profit. This
furnishes the agreed-upon contribution of 1 p.c. to
sinking fund, and about £38,000 over, which means
another 2f p.c. to provide for contingencies and
depreciation not otherwise allowed for. That at least
oueht to be enough to give citizens a comfortable
feeling. On these figures they are entitled to believe
that their big business is not only paying working
expenses and interest, but is also putting by ample
to cover every contingency (including renewals and
replacements), and is contributing to a sinking fund
enough to repay the capital debt in about 40 years.
Digging a little deeper into details, these results
are found: —
Working
Ex- Net In-
- Revenue, penses. Revenue, teres! . Loss.
1904 .. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,688
1905 .. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906 .. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907 .. 65,808 31,899 33,969 15.025 18,944
1908 .. .93,600 56,785 36,815 19,380 17,435
1909 .. 128,980 67,338 61,642 24,575 37,067
1910 .. 166,047 88,497 .77,550 27,763 49,787
1911 . . 190.289 95,428... 94,861 33,851 61.010
1912 .. 234,324 111,562 122,762 42,324 80,438
1913 . . 301,637 138,626 163,011 52,931 110,080
From that profit for the past year various small
amounts have to be deducted- on account of damage
settlements, etc., to arrive at the profit indicated in
previous tables. '• - '
The fixed expenditure to December 31 was
£1,578,584; and a further £176,336 is in stores,
spares, and outstanding accounts. The capital for all
this has been provided as follows:
Due on Due on Due to Other
Debenture's. Overdrafts'; Companies. Creditors.
1907 .. £350,000 £23,005 V £23,051 £9,987
1908 .. 475,000 Nil - --#,487 17,632
1909 . . 560,000 Nil §0.034 11,712
1910 . . 750,000 Nil ‘ “ 57,530 22,033
1911 .. 750,000 153,922 42,693 27,067
1912 .. 1,000,000 161,077 '>27,812 49,123
1913 . . 1,251.600 279,474 ' Nil 38,924
The amounts “due to companies” were the sums
which the Council agreed to pay the. private concerns
for their goodwills. The last of -this liability has
been jiow got rid of. Extensions during the year
were considerable, and there is a' big programme
ahead in connection with the sale -of current to
northern suburbs under contract ; so that further
large changes in this account will be shown 12
months hence. Meantime, citizens may congratulate
themselves upon possessing what is to day more than
self-supporting, and what in the course of.years pro-
mises to be a valuable asset which has presented itself
to the city, paying the cost out. of its own surplus
earnings.
W. E. Smith. Ltd., formed to take over an
old-established printing and stationery business in
Sydney, as from October, 1910: —
Written
’ .‘-Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Oct., 1910 . . - £19,068
Apr., 1911 .. £3947 10 p.c. =£3408 15,529
Och,-J.911 . . 5354 10 „ „ 3408 £677 17,260
Apr., 1912 .. 5122 4 „ „ 1500 702 14,340
Oct., 1912 'I. 4382 7 „ „ 2625 717 13,300
Apr., 1913 .. 3867 3 „,, 1125 747 11,305
Oct., 1913 . . 3182 3 „ „ 1125 1017 10,265
Apr., 1914 . . 2268 Nil 1236 9,233
Things have been getting no better. When the eo.
was formed £18,020 was paid for goodwill, and pre-
liminary exes. carried the intangible assets up to
119,068. W. E. Smith made a very good thing out
of the business when he ran it, and the £18,020
was paid for the connection he had < stablished. But
this is not a business that sticks fight, in most cases
the big printing jobs arc tendered for, and the man
who can show good work gets them if he puts in the
lowest price. There are, no doubt, other ways of
getting work ; but in this case what work was got
in those other ways depended mainly upon the efforts
of W E. Smith hi tin el t. it may be that, being long-
sighted, Smith saw ahead of him a lot of industrial
trouble ; anyhow, he sold the business, went away
atid soon afterwards died. Kor 12 anonths the direc-
tors were, or thought they were, justified in paying
a >0 p.c. div. Then troubles dropped in one after
another, and, ever since, the Board must have been
reflecting what a ghostly thing goodwill is—the good-
will that the co. paid over £lB,OOO for. Fortunately
the Board is now a small one of hard-headed men who
seem to be under no illusions about the item ; hence
every available pound of book profit is being used
to wipe out the goodwill spectre, which will after
the present appropriations be reduced to £9OOO.
Thus profits arc being accumulated to take the place
of the myth: and this will steadily, if slowly, im-
prove the eo.’s profit-earning capacity.
At present there isn’t very much net profit to use
for this purpose, because, though for last half-year
£2268 is shown as profit in the foregoing table, wear
and tear of plant, etc., absorbs £1236 ; in other
words, it is reckoned that that much value has been
knocked off the outfit in earning the eo.’s revenue
in the six months. The most hopeful feature is the
evident determination of the Board to make the best
of a bad bargain and hang on to profits until the
capital is represented by tangible assets. The mis-
fortune is that that alone doesn’t bring a profitable
business. Still, a Board which gets down to bedrock
in one direction may be expected to give a keen eye
to costing, etc., inside the establishment; and in a
business of this sort that system is the beginning of
wisdom and the main road to success. In its tough
job the Board is hampered to some extent by a 6
p.c. debenture debt of £20,000; but, after all. that
isn’t very tremendous, especially as other liabilities
total only £3422, while cash, book debts and other
liquid and semj-liquid assets run to £17,050, and
stock runs into £37,542. The share capital is
£75.000. Pretty well every Australian city—Sydney
certainly—is overstocked with printers. In the trade
there is a multitude of small shops, many of them
one-man shops not affected bv wages-loard awards.
These places don’t know anything about costing.
What they want is work, and, to get it, their prices
are often wild. This is the sort of gruelling competi-
tion a co. like W. E. Smith’s is up against. It
wouldn’t be the line, therefore, that The Bulletin
would advise anybody to put money into. On the
other hand, Smith’s have good resources of machinery
and stock, and they have a certain trade connection,
and with that and economical management,, there is
no reason to take a desperately serious view of the
co.’s present sickness.
CniiisTCHUKCH Gas, Coal and Coke Co.
(M.L.)
Added to
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1910. . £28,237 10 p.c. =£20,000 £8,237 £78.065
Premiums on new capital. . 4,978 83,043
1911 . . 29,969 10 p.c. = 20.000 9,969 93,012
1912.. 29,784 10 p.c. = 20.000 9,784 102,796
Premiums on new capital. . 2,985 105,781
1913.. 30,689 10 p.c. = 20,265 10,424 116,205
The co. has just been celebrating its jubilee, and
didn’t feel that the circumstance called for sackcloth
and ashes. The table goes back only four years, but
the 10 p.c. was paid for a long while before that.
In stating a gas co.’s profits very much depends
upon the energy with which repairs and renewals
are made and charged up against current revenue.
Obviously if a co. lets its plant, mains, etc., look
after themselves—which they won’t do—it can for a
while bloat its profits ; and if it pays those profits
and alleged profits away, it will presently find itself
unable to carry on unless it gets in more capital to
replace what has been used up in wear and tear.
The Christchurch Co. doesn’t set out specifically the
amount spent on renewals and repairs ; but it alleges
in its revenue account that it spends something. In
addition, presumably to provide for contingencies,
it has a formal Renewal Reserve, into which of late
years it has been dropping £5OOO per annum. The
total of that fund is now £23,500. Even allowing
that this £5OOO p.a. should he written off, the sur-
plus profits, after paying the 10 p.c. dividend, are
very comfortable. The 10 n.c. rate is all the more
easily maintained because, when fresh-capital is called
for to extend the operations of the eo., the practice
is to ask for a premium, which of course goes into
the business. Last year, for instance, 8000 new £5
shares were offered —apparently the fifth new issue—-
and shareholders were invited to pay £6 ss. for them.
On that figure a 10 p.c.’ div. would show a return of
8 p.c. ; yet somehow or other not much more than
half the shares were taken. Lucky town is Christ-
church if it can afford to pass hv 8 p.c. investments !
And it can hardly be for want of monev, for Christ-
church is remarkably solid ; and it can’t he either
that 8 p.c. doesn’t mean as much in Christchurch
as it does in most places, because, as a matter of
fact, living is probably cheaper in the Canterbury
centre than in any other big town in Maoriland.
And it can’t be. either, that security for the principal
is questioned, because, with a paid share capital of
£238,000, liabilities are under £39.000, while liquid
assets (including stocks of coal. etc.) exceed £33,000
There are thus no mortgages or prior claims worth
considering; on the other hand, if the fixed assets
are not overvalued (and on that point nothing can he
said) the reserves are worth very nearly £2 12s.
per share. But the money is practically all in the
business ; and the business is likely to be affected by
an electric-lighting project which is afoot.
The Chillagoe directors have just produced
the report and accounts to December 31 last. Appa-
rently they have been waiting the best part of six
months for something to turn up ; but. in the end, they
had to go to the shareholders with nothing more
than the old, faded bouquet of hopes and promises
m their hands. The Bulletin has lost count of Chil-
lagoe reconstructions; the last one happened in the
eaily part of 1913, and the present documents cover
the period from April 1 to Dec. 31. The overdraft
had crept up past £50,000 at the end of 1912; and
as the banker was probably getting no more affable,
in view of the big debenture debt of over £BOO,OOO.
there was nothing for the co. to do hut to come at
the shareholders again if the newly-acquired Mulligan
coalfield was to be turned to account. Of course,
hut in plain terms, the reconstruction was a way of
imposing a liability on shares that were supposed to
be fully paid. All the capital in the old co. had been
called up; but unless he paid Is. per share and
undertook to pay another 25., the holder got nothing
except the trifle the shares he didn’t applv for might
realise over and above the fid. on application and
6d. on allotment. The holders of all but 80,000 of
the 1.200.000 old shares decided to hang oil and risk
a uiore; as for the 80,000 the directors now say
coldly that they were “practically valueless for some
time heforp the eo. went into liquidation, and the


"The Personnel of an
EXECUTOR
and TRUSTEE
is a very serious matter' for a Testator’s Widow
and Children if the best selection is not made.
The wisest course is to appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
which, having had twenty-eight years’ experience,
and employing an Expert Staff, is much to be
preferred to apy private Trustees, no matter
how. trustworthy?
A Booklet giving full particulars as to
the Company’s Methods and Charges
will be sent on application.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Mgr.
EFFICIENT SERVICE
under all conditions is ensured
by installing
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
Write for Catalogue to
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
You cannot lengthen your work days, but you can
accomplish more .work in the same time by adopting
the right help. Secure the right help for your mine
or factory—equip all your drives with “Pioneer”
leather belting —the thorough helping belt—the belt
that will transmit every ounce of power your
machines generate- —because of its perfect gripping
and non-slipping. “Pioneer” is made from the centre
cuts of flawless Australian ox hides, which are tanned
in our own tannery and built up with best materials
and workmanship. “Pioneer” works and brings big
profits in mines, power stations, factories, sugar and
timber mills—let it work for you. Ask our nearest
office to send you samples, prices and help on ypur
power transmission problems. “Pioneer” is made
only by ,T. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd., Pioneer Works,
117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V. Markets), and
sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders
Street, Melbourne ; in South Australia by J. McßelJ,
Timpson Street. Port Adelaide; in Queensland; by
Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in ' Vf.
Australia by Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth ;
in Broken Hill by Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street *
*** • [
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* •* * »
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Ung.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
* * * *
Extract from Commercial World, London, Novem-
ber 15, 1913: —“Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited. —Most life offices have a certain
individuality of their own or some special feature
which is impressed upon us whenever we look into
their affairs, and in the case of the Colonial Mutual
it would perhaps be correct to say that enterprise
and activity are the characteristics chiefly in evi-
dence.”* [1
* 1 * * ■*
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is the ideal irrigation pipe.
The company manufacture a specially cheap but good -
line of piping for this purpose. Catalogue from the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Syd-
ney (Head Office).*
Ample evidence of the increasing popularity of
the Hornsby manufactures is the fact that no less
than three mining cos. —Goldswortli Gold Mines
Ltd., Uralla; The Phoenix Gold Recovery Co., Hill-
gTove; and The True Blue Mines, West Wyalong—
within one week after exhaustive inquiries have
placed their order for the “Hornsby” Suction Gas
Engine and Plant. These plants are recognised by
experts to be thoroughly up to date, simple to work,
and a vast saving in fuel used, charcoal or coke
being all that is required to produce the gas, and
the small amount of attention required. R. Hornsby
and Sons Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [2
* * * *
Harringtons Ltd., the Photographic Merchants, of
386 George Street, Sydney, will give the highest
returns for all kinds of residues, large quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process worker’s residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Harrington’s assay department can execute assays
for jewellers within two or three hours, and pro-
spectors and others are assured of immediate attention.
All kinds of analytical and metallurgical work can
be executed promptly, and advice given on all
branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy. The
whole of the work is directed by a qualified analyst
and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, London,
Assavers and Refiners to the Bank of England, lI.M.
Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Harringtons
can also arrange to send large parcels of sweeps,
residues, ores, etc., direct to Messrs. Johnson & Sons,
London.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street.
Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample'
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head:
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
■» * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to 11. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monotael
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
’Phone
CITY-8332.
■
Poldi Steel
REDUCES MOTORISTS’ WORRIES TO A MINIMUM.
-- : '//,/. * •- - J 7 -- . ■
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
liability (to pay for them), if any, is unlikely to
amount to much,” It is true that shareholders were
told officially op Jan. 14, 1913, that, aftev providing
for all liabilities, “the apparent surplus remaining i n
favor of the co. is over £927,000.” which would be
about 15s. 6d. per share; but - if they were put to
it the directors are quite entitled to plead that Chil-
lagoe estimates long ago ceased to have any value.
No doubt the directors have been waiting for the
Government to close with the Board’s offer to sell the
railway. The price asked is £1,200,000, being the
. average net earnings for the previous five years capi-
talised at 5 p.c. The Board offered to take 4
p.c. bonds instead of money. It is alleged that the
railway people are favorabie to purchase; but it is
pretty certain that this price doesn’t suit. The
Government isn’t likely to forget that the co. has
been its own principal railway customer, and that it
didn’t matter a jot to the final result whether it
charged itself £1 or £lO for carrying a ton
of stuff. If the co. got £1,200,000 it would be
entitled to give three cheers for itself, for it would
then be able to pay off its debts, debentures and
all, and have about £289,000 to the good, equal to
4s. 9d. per share. The chances are that, if they got
that much, most shareholders would, in a burst of
-gratitude, make the Government a present of all the
mines and all the plant, and cordially invite the
State to complete the good work by taking over the
Etheridge railway for £350,000 —a discount of (say)
£lOO,OOO. However, this is all a beautiful dream,
based on equally beautiful Chillagoe estimates and
other figures ; and the fatal facility of Chillagoe esti-
mates for going wrong has already been alluded to.
Meantime this is the position. The co. is opening
up the Einasleigh, a comparatively new acquisition,
and is proving it something of a copper mine, though
by no means a big one—it might do very well per-
haps for a co. with a capital of £Bo.ooo'. The cen-
tral smelting and other plant is shut down, ostensibly
because coke and fuel are too dear ; wherefore the
Mulligan coalfield is being opened up, and the State
is spending a fair amount of money to connect the
property with the Chillagoe line. In other words, it
is building a Government line to feed a private line;
but as the private line feeds a Government line at
the coast end, the anomaly is not as bad as it looks.
The Etheridge mines have been a bitter disappoint-
ment, and the railway to serve them is just what it
might be expected to be in such circumstances. The
nearer mines, including those on which the original
float and early reconstructions were carried through,
are either abandoned or are stringers of the worst
possible description. The Mulligan coal and coke
and railway may help the co. a trifle; but there
simply are not the mines to support anything like
the capital represented by the debentures and other
debt and the capital, even though the latter has been
written down until it is only a shadow of its former
self. The amazing thing is that the whole concern
(bdn t fall into the hands of the debenture-holders
long ago. Only the remarkable ingenuity of the
Board in pumping money out of shareholders has kept
the latter’s interest in it alive.
As for the nine months covered by the accounts, all
that need be said is that, after paying a nice little
bill of £21,812 for reconstruction, a debit balance of
£32,519 is carried forward; and even then appar-
ently nothing is provided against depreciation.
* * * *
The output of ore from the Mungana
(N Q.) for 12 months to March 31 was 16,356 tons,
and the profit (working account) was £2401, which
is slightly under 3s. per ton. The ore may have been
rich, but the profit was miserable—at it always has
been, and, on present appearances, always will be
* * * »
Victory, Charters Towers, cleaned up 125
tons for £l3BO, which averages over £ll per ton.
Stopes show only from 2in. to 9in. of stone, so it
needs to be rich. The most important development
has been the opening of a new reef at 580 ft. vertical.
It was met in a crosscut from No. 2 south level
on the 423 ft. formation, and it shows from Bin. to
12in. in the face, with gold plentiful. Another cross-
cut in the Victory workings has also been successful
in opening a block of payable stone. Altogether
prospects are decidedly better. -There are 200,000
shares, all fully paid.
The market in Brilliant Deeps, Charters
Towers, is livelier, mainly because No. 7 level
(about 2700 ft. vertical) is showing a big make of
quartz, some of it heavily mineralised. A rise is
being put up to connect with No. 6. Improved ven-
tilation has made the main hanging-wall section of
the Brilliant reef accessible, and as there are some
good blocks of stone thereabouts the returns are
expected to improve again.
* # * »
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) is busy refilling
old stopes with mullock and preparing for another
smelting campaign.
* * * *
“Stannifer” : Apropos the gloomy forecast
of the Great Britain’s chairman that, owing to the
rise in wages and the fall in tin, the claim may
have to shut down, it is quite probable that the
co. is on a better wicket now than when it started,
as tin was then only about £9O locally. Also, firewood
doesn’t cost so much as it did at first, and even Is.
per cord less is a big item. Of course, there has
been an award and wages are a little higher; but, as
a rule, the plants are now run bv fewer men. Also, I
think, the output has increased. Two Emmaville bucket
dredges have already thrown in their marbles: they
employ comparatively few men, but are said to eat
their heads off with dam-making expenses.
* * * *
Six months or thereabouts after the event
the Westralian Mines Department issues an advance
sheet or two of its report for 1913. From these it
is gathered that the value of the State’s mineral
production for that year was £6,036,265, or £267,698
more than the total for 1912. All minerals, excepting
tin, showed an improvement. Principal increases;
Gold, £133,316: copper, £82,689; lead, £36,732;
and coal, £17,757. The total mineral production to
the end of 1913 is valued at £119.362,775, of which
£114,880.573 represents gold. The average value
per ton of gold ore treated fell from 39.64 shillings
in 1912 to 39.19 in 1913. The tonnage
treated showed an increase of 68,493 on the 1912
figures. The area held under mining lease for all
minerals was 53,543 acres, or 3059 acres more than
in .1912. The number of men engaged in all classes
of mining was 14,780, or 181 less than in the
previous year. The output was 51.22 p.c. of the total
for Australasia. The nuipber of State batteries at
the end of 1913 was 40, an increase of four. From
‘their inception to the end of last year gold and tin
worth £4,189,955 were won by these plants. They
■showed last year a loss of £7711, due mainly, if not
wholly, to the fact that the mills average only
about a month or six weeks’ wpvk in each year.
Altogether, £15,316 was advanced under the Mining
Development Act to needy prospectors and mineowners
during the year, and an additional £12,216 was ex-
pended in generally assisting the industry. Receipts
under the Act totalled £14,193.
Marvel Loch (W.A.) has sacked nearly
all hands and the cook on its Loch lease. This is
locally taken to mean that the outlook is bad.
Payne’s Find (W.A.) has decided to in-
stall rock drills and go down —which, on the look of
the field, it is likely to do in more senses than one.
The last crushing yielded 80oz. from 60 tons, and to
date the mine has produced about 1600 oz. from 1700
tons. But the line of country on which it is located
hasn’t good signs of permanency.
Word conies from the West that the Mel-
bourne-owned Marie’s Find leases at Yilgarn are to
be probed a further 50ft., which will take them to
110 ft. It is claimed by the management that the
lxef can be traced on the surface for over 2000 ft.,
but to its credit no estimate is ventured as to how
far the reef is going to persist in depth. Lots
totalling 292 tons crushed by the vendors averaged
over £5 by amalgamation, with 325. per ton in the
residues ; and the average of all the exposed faces in
the workings is given as £7 per ton. It looks good.
* * * *
Lake View circular just to hand gives the
co.’s holding in the hitherto-unprofitable Burma mines
as 100,000 shares. What, they cost is not stated.
The again-apd-again reconstructed Lon-
don-Australian Exploration Co. has issued a circular
giving information regarding its various specs. From
this, it appears that the new plant at the much-
puffed but somewhat risky Plymouth Consolidated
mines, California, is expected to start treating 8000
to 9000 tons of ore per month as from July. Brief
mention is also made of the Burma mines, but the
extent of the co.’s interest in this concern is not
stated. New business has been undertaken in Tas-
mania and California, about which the Board has the
usual great hopes. The announcement is also made
that the reserve liability on the partly-paid shares is
to be called up right away.
Chaffers (W.A.) now expects to resume
gold-production in September. Most of the new plant
has been installed, and the remainder, including a
340-h.p. suction-gas engine, is expected to be on the
mine this month. Fuel costs are tipped to be the
lowest on the Golden Mile.
Tindal’s (W.A.) lias been given a little
more exemption. This time a spell is required to
allow the Board to consider a report from the mana-
ger on the subject of treatment. The ore, in addi-
tion to being a bit on the low side, has become re-
fractory in depth, and the tailings cannot be cyanided
by ordinary methods. The manager claims to have
discovered a process for treating the residues as they
come from the mill. As this process is “out of the
usual line” the Board wants time to look into it.
* * * *
A Westralian report says that the Mary
Mac Co. paid tributors Hunt and Tasker £lO,OOO
cash and 7000 shares for their interest in the Lady
Harriet and adjoining shows at Laverton. The last
crushing of 700 tons taken out before the co. bought
in is estimated to have averaged lldwt., with sdwt.
in the slimes.
Corinthian North (W.A.) hopes to have
its 3000-tons-a-month sulphide plant working early in
1915. A good rise in production and profit is then
looked for. Since the oxidised mill started average
costs (including development and other exes.) have
been under 11s., though at the tiifie of flotation the
estimate given ranged from 16s. to 18s. Later on,
total expenditure is expected to fall below 10s. The
principal holders are the Doolettes, father and son,
and when everything is in full swing they figure on
making £15,000 a year between them. Hitherto
everything has become impoverished or perished alto-
gether at depth on the Yilgarn field; but there is
room, no doubt, for an exception.
* * * *
Ingliston, alias Commodore South, is
proving a good extra string to the Meekatharra (W.A.)
bow. Last crushing of 144 tons returned £l2OO, and
the mine’s total output to date is 1632 tons for
£13,128. The owners now estimate the value of
what is in sight in the old lode at 12dwt. for a
width of 4ft. and a length of 300 ft., and a new shoot
of ore just located promises to average about the
same.
* * * *
South Kalgurli’s ore reserves were esti-
mated on March 31 at: Actual, 137,383 tons (average
•gross value, 54dwt.) ; probable, 92,120 tons (average,
sJdwt.). Developments recorded since that date
have, if anything, slightly improved the position.
*'* * f
The Black Range West (W.A.) lias got
to the end of its financial tether at last; and as,
on the position and prospects of the claim, it would
be absurd to throw in the sponge, a new no-liability
co. is to be formed in the same number of shares
(60.000). All will be contributing; there were onjv
39,000 of that sort in the old co. For the future
calls will not therefore be so frequent—provided, of
course, the co. can keep the shares alive.
*** * .
In a quiet wav South New Moon is getting
up to the records of the giants of Bendigo. Last
half-year, by shelling out over £6OOO, it got well
over the £500,000 dividend mark. There are not
many other live mines in Victoria that can look to
adding to such a record. The quartz milled for the
six months averaged Ojrlwt. per load. This may
mean big tons, but that builds up costs against
the manager. Over sdwt. goes to cover charges, and
development swallows up another fraction. The
mainstay is the spurry country at and below 900 ft.,
on the extension of which Clarence, next door, is
building hopes to-day. The co. is also poking about
the east of the old spurry ground at 1060 ft. There
stone was so plentiful in the rich shoot that a legacy
was left for the man who now is content with a
little. No work is going on below 1220 ft., so it
looks as if this, like so many other Bendigo cos., has
given up deep sinking as a bad job.
* * * *
An old-timer, Oswald’s, Maldon (Vic.),
has slipped out of private life into a co.’s hands,
and, after yielding oyer a million of gold, still
figures as a fair profit-earner. Things are done
leisurely, for 5000 tons constitutes a good half-
year’s work. The average gold contents are about
15dwt., which permits of 4s. going to shareholders
in the six months. Prospecting is on at 1100 ft.,
where there is plenty of quartz but little gold. As
a makeweight a good block has been picked up at
400 ft.. and there may be a shoot to develop in the old
Independent mine alongside, which the co. also owns.
Parkin’s Reef runs through Oswald’s, and is a splen-
didly defined formation, but its gold bulks below the
pay line. Fine returns came from where flat
makes, as at Davlesford, junction with the “verti-
cals.” But all this happened in the shallow ground,
and there isn’t much of that left unprospected nowa-
davs.
Olive" Brandi, Davlesford (Vic.), is trying
a new specialist in William John Edwards. He
takes a more hopeful view of things in general than
Noah did when he shoved the dove out of the Ark.
There are two reefs at the Olive Branch —the Eastern
and the Abundance. Neither has so far sported any-
thing except a fruitless mixture of barren quartz, so
('alls have been the luck of the Eatman holding the
purse. There is not enough gold to be seen to turn
the head of a hatter; hence the mine is to be given
a run at 250 ft. on the Eastern reef, the idea being
that sinking may open up pay dirt. So far the
Abundance formation has been chiefly remarkable
for furnishing stone fit for ballast. The new man
flirts with the hope of alighting on to a flat make
such as is helping North Ajax to beat its pals just
now.
Mount Lyell CTas.) shows a steady im-
provement in its blister copper return. The last lot
for a run of four weeks was 585 tons, following 542
tons and 516 tons. The total production for 12 weeks
lias been 1618 tons fine copper, 113,4350 z. silver and
21600 z. gold—7ooz. silver and 26dwt. gold in a ton
of. copper, and the returns vary very little. The
extraction has averaged a fraction over 2 p c. copper,
the value (with electrolytic copper at £6O) being
from 255. to 265. per ton, with from ss. 6d. to 6s.
worth of precious metals. Assuming that the smelter
treats an average of 26,000 tons in four weeks,
338,000 tons will be smelted in a year, which, on a
2 p.c. basis, should give 6760 tons copper. As the
recovery is slightly over 2 p.c., it is quite possible
that the actual output will top 7000 tons this 12
months.
Captain “Teddy” Miles, the man who in-
troduced Australian mining men to Siam and the
Malay Peninsula and started the dredging activity
there, is just back from another visit to those parts.
In the beginning the ancient mariner was connected
with the Tongkah (which was the IXL, to start
with), but, getting out of that, he is now managing
director of the Deebook, Katoo Deebook and Bangnou
cos—most of them consisting mainly of the Mileses
and their friends. The Deebook has one dredge on
the ground, and it should be ready to make a start
within three weeks from date. A second should be
delivered and erected by the end of the year. Part
of the Katoo's first dredge is on the ground, and the
rest of it is by this time probably on the way from
the port (Kenong). If monsoon rains don’t spoil the
plans, the machine will start before the end of the
year. The Bangnon dredge is, like all the others,
being built in Australia, and should be at work in
March or April next year. All three cos. have big
areas ; the Katoo’s lot is 540 acres and the Deebook’s
440 acres. The fall in tin will, of course, very seri-
ously affect profits; but the margin over expected
costs is still wide enough to give the tremendously
energetic Edward a comfortable feeling. He mightn’t
have felt half as comfortable had be kept his eggs
in the Tongkah basket, for Tongkah is, comparatively,
a low-grade proposition—low-grade, at any rate, when
its circumstances (including stiffness of ground) are
taken into account.
* * * *
Burma Mines, in which a good deal of
Lake View and other Westralian-earned gold was
originally sunk, is flying another kite. This time
a contract has been entered into for an additional
100,000 £1 shares at par, whilst a call has been
given on a further 200,000 shares at par for periods
of from 11 to 18 months. As usual, a good deal of
talk is indulged in regarding the value of the ore
in sight, and the best idea of profits is said to be
afforded by the estimate that these will range from
£1,000,000 to £1,325,000 for every 100 ft. of ex-
tension in depth. Similar things were said at the
time of flotation years ago, but the co. has done
nothing but reconstruct and pledge its assets again
and again.
* * * *
Why didn’t A. F. Showers get a man to
sub-edit his Philippi nes-Paracle report? As the
accounts closed on Oct. 31, there was time to turn
out something less verbose and involved. What
should have been furnished is a distinct statement
of the respective interests of the two shows such
as the Austral-Malay has supplied. The Philippines
Co. has £200,000 of capital in £1 shares, of which
170.000 have been issued, leaving 30,000 under
option to Lionel Robinson s crowd. The Parade
boasts of 150,000 £1 shares, and of these the
Philippines Co. owns 97,075. Then there is an
agreement by which the Philippines finds the cash
for “certain” dredges and hands them over free of
cost to the Parade. The latter co. therefore ap-
pears to be the working unit, the Philippines the
heavy father with the money. As far as things have
gone with the two dredges at work, the No. 1 has
treated sJgr. ground at a cost of 6d. per cubic yard,
while the No. 2 has cut into 7gr. ground worked for
2.3 d. per cubic yard, both runs showing a small
profit. Twelve months’ work will have to be done
to demonstrate whether the cos. have not had too
much limelight. Thus the black sand asset on
which scrip spurted, and the results of which were
“surprising,” is now said to be “something on which
we must not build” hopes of getting “great results.”
On this point The Bulletin said a warning word
months ago. The debenture debt of £46,000 is by
no means to be overlooked, though the liability will
be liquidated if Lionel Robinson takes up the 30,000
unissued shares.
“Exile”: The Anglo-Persian Oil Co. was
formed with £250,000 contributed seven years ago
bv W. K. D’Arcv, the Mount Morganaire, whose
friends at the time predicted that one of these foggy
nights he would be found fast asleep on the Thames
Embankment. It now looks as if this investment of
D’Arcy’s was even better than his first venture in
Mount Morgan. The British Government, with the
approval of the House of Commons, has just put
.£2,250,000 into the enterprise. The concession has
60 years to run, and gives the right to mine for petro-
leum over the whole of Persia, an area of 635,000
square miles. D’Arcy spent £125,000 unsuccessfully,
and sold a three-fourths interest to the Burma Oil
.Corporation, which had developed the industry most
profitably in the “East.” The Corporation soon struck
oil, and built pipe lines and refineries, so the British
Government has got into a business which bids fair
to pay one hundred times better than the old pur-
chase of Suez Canal shares. Besides, it will now be
able to draw half its supplv of fuel oil from the
Anglo-Persian co.’s wells. The oil will be brought
to England via the Cape to save Canal dues. The
episode shows how seriously dependent the new Brit-
ish naval vessels are upon fuel oil for steaming pur-
poses. Which also causes one to think what the new
Australian navy will do after it has used up its hand-
to-mouth supply of oil fuel in time of war. It might
fall back on eucalyptus and castor oil. Or it might
stop in port.
* * * *
A recent decision of the Northeote (Vic.)
magistrates should mean a boom in fire insurance.
The Melbourne Fire Brigade Board sued Catherine
Oliver, a Northeote resident, for £32 11s. for the
service of the fire brigade in quenching an outbreak
on her premises. She was not insured. She had
been for many years, but had allowed the policy to
lapse last year; in the words of the Gent. One who
appeared for the Board she had “insured with hei-
self,” and so was liable. Dr. R. H. Cole,
agreed, remarking: “If property owners do not in-
sure, or if they do not pay insurance companies for
protecting their property, they are liable.” judg-
ment went by consent, £7 11s. being knocked off
as it was a first case. As the Board irtay charge by
Act of Parliament up to a fifth of the value of all
that is salved, the insurance offices should report good
business for the next month or so.


Under
Royal
Warrant
fd
To H.ML
George V
champagne
Reims
CHAMPAGNE
Charles Heidsierk
MS lII®
W//>
B
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
APPENDICITIS FREQUENT.
NUMBERLESS SOCIETY PATIENTS.
[From Our Special Representative.]
London, Wednesday, 11.10 p.m.
Operations for appendicitis are becoming common
amongst society folk. The latest case is that of Sir
Charles Cust, equerry to the King, who accompanied
him on his Australian tour when Duke of York.
Appendicitis during recent years has become very
ordinary throughout the civilised world, and it is
held in many professional centres that before appen-
dicitis was correctly diagnosed numberless deaths
resulted, the physicians being at that time under the
impression the cause of death was peritonitis or in-
flammation of the bowels. Medical men, with the
educated finger-touch that comes with active prac-
tice, readily diagnose the complaint to-day, aided by
symptoms only too easily recognised.
Medical science of to-day has reduced this opera-
tion to an almost painless nature, hut prolonged
weakness often ensues, as is shown in the case of Mr.
P. R. Miles, who was operated on in Melbourne last
year. In an appendicitis sense, his case was similar
to that of thousands of others, but the weakness that
ensued baffled all attempts to cure, and as he repre-
sented one of the largest commercial firms resident
in Australasia, his life was a very valuable one.
Prescriptions and medicines were alike useless to him
until he, as a last resource, took Clements Tonic,
the great nerve and brain medicine, and in a mirac-
ulously short time his strength and health were re-
stored. His nerves are now as sound as steel; he says
he is completely cured. As all chemists and stores
sell this medicine, it would be wise for all wealt-
nerved people to get it and get well.*
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
/
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
oh est ne le roi FRANCOIS PL de France.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 22, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
It has come to him at last. Professor
Anderson Stuart, of the Sydney Medical
School, is popularly supposed to have suf-
fered many disappointments as King’s
Birthdays have passed him by and left him
a plain Scotch doctor; but this time he did
not read the list with the same old sad
heart —he is a K.B. at last. Joseph Cook,
with a general election in front of him, evi-
dently baulked at the hurdle ; anyhow, while
the cold Irvine is listed among the
Iv.C.M.G.’s, the leader is merely entitled to
say that he is a Privy Councillor. For
George’s peace of mind let’s hope he’ll never
have occasion to take counsel with his new
adviser on a Constitutional point.
Early in June Ulick Browne, a baritone
from Bananaland. now on the other side,
was promised the patronage (I suppose it
runs to a few shillings) of two duchesses,
three countesses, a few lesser lords and
ladies, and others. That, I suppose, is one
of the minor advantages of being Ulick
Browne. If you make a proper search of
your register of blue bloods, you’ll find that
another Ulick Browne is Marquess of Sligo.
There is quite a covey of representatives of
the family in Australia —good, plain, useful
citizens, most of them.
Excellency Murray goes back to Papua
in the Houtman on July 18. The Posses-
sion, by the way, seems to be suffering from
its friends and enemies in an equal degree
just now. Certainly the number of persons
who are after Governor Murray with an
inkpot or an axe appears to be growing
larger; but it isn’t always safe to regard
them as disinterested reformers.
Adelaide keeps up a steady supply of snow
climbers at the annual Kosciusko carnival.
Mr. and Mrs. Lea—offshoots of the wealthy
sauce family—and Mr. Frank Moulden, of
the same City of Prayers, are packing up
their warm mufflers for the July revels in
Monaro. The Reids, of Camperdown
(Vic.), in the famous Western District
where squatters wax fat, are also going;
likewise the C. E. Mannings, of Hunter’s
Hill, Guy Davenport (who pulled off a few
prizes last year), and the dapper little
Blunno, who twirls his moustache amongst
the vines and wine-cellars hereabouts.
Goff at Kensington for the last few days
of the Ladies’ Golf Union events had some
damp going underfoot. The Championship
Doubles were nulled off by Miss Duret and
her partner. Mr. Marks. Last year the
Manly girl was the runner-up in this event.
Mis« Boys, as I close this missive, hasn’t
got away with any trophy of consequence,
in spite of some consistently strong smacks
at the elusive white ball. Miss Parbury
(Scone) outclassed Miss Purdie (Orange)
in the finals_ for the State Championship.
The Orange girl is an attractive figure on the
links, and drives well.
At Wednesday’s goff argument on the
Kensington links, Miss Kiss, a keen player
who is improving very fast on her last year’s
form, won a putting competition. ’ On
Saturday afternoon, at the same address, a
Dubbo girl. Miss Mabel Mackenzie, and her
partner, Mr. Buzacott, played a good game
in the handicari mixed doubles, and got next
door to winning the event with only one
behind. _ Various ties will be pulled out
before this reaches you.
Living chess was the first item on the
programme at the complimentary rally
round our champion chess player, W. S.
Viner.. The programme was long enough
to finish up when the morning milk was
rattling through sleepy suburbs, so it had a
few slices hacked out of its middle. Our
Town Barn was not crowded for the event.
After the chess display had been moved off
the floor the slender audience was in-
vited to “come up closer.” They did come
up closer, tugging tlieir chairs behind them,
with the velocity of a rush in the muddied
football field. Champion Viner, in fancy
gear of the period when helmets were of the
soup tureen pattern, sat on the stage, oppo-
site ex-chess champion Jacobsen in the flam-
ing red petticoats of a mediaeval Cardinal.
As they made a move a damsel in the garb
of a herald dashed forth to yell the result.
At her heels pranced another damsei
(Queenie Boult) to show the way to the
chessmen. Then did kings, queens and
saucy young knights go on with their busi-
ness. _ Queen Margaret, a very large lady,
was in the defeated Lancastrian set (the
Yorks won the game), and she sobbed in-
side the folds of a veil large enough for a
mosquito net till her gloomy Henry dragged
her from the fray.
The audience got more harmless mirth out
of an arrangement of Tennyson’s “Maud”
than the ■ bleak municipal walls have shel-
tered _ for some weeks. A youth was “The
Man,” and the Voice was Montgomery
Stuart, who sang in front of the wing on
the platform. By the time “The Man” had
squirmed all over the stage, and fallen flat
on his face with a hearty thump, all the
younger persons present were rocking them-
selves in such laughter as few comedians
can extract from a blase world. “Queen
rose of the rosebud garden of girls” brought
forth a bevy of strong-minded young
females, who stamped across the platform
while Maud’s young man rucked up his hair
and clutched his knees. “She is coming, my
own” —and she did come ! This was Maud
herself, a plump, good-looking girl, athletic
enough to have picked up “The Man” and
hurled him over the garden gate.
Maud (Iris Webster) was swathed in a long
black coat when she first bounced into view.
But she brought along the necessary shim-
mer of satin and quite eighteenpence worth
of pearls at the right moment. Her young
man had his last attack of blighted love in
a doubled-up attitude, suggestive of too
many green apples for lunch, when the
pianist hit the final chord.
Molly Owen, a younger daughter of bar-
rister Langer Owen, K.C., is engaged to
Frank Dowling, who belongs to a fami’y
which is also much addicted to the Law.
Molly’s grandpapa was the late Justice Wil-
liam Owen, and her young man’s relatives
include a great-uncle (this sounds rather far
off) named James Dowling. The latter wore
horsehair curls, long ago, as the second
Chief Justice of N.S.W.
The Women’s Club is not absolutely at
one in the matter of asking Adela Pank-
hurst to “Come Over Here.” A few quiet
souls are perturbed over the goings-on of
the hanky-panky family, and tremble lest
they be let in for damages if Adela gets into
a. crockery-smash temper during her Sydney
visit. Cash is very necessary, anyhow ; but
the report that most of the exes, will be col-
lected in the Women’s Club’s best bonnet
will be an incentive to bring the lady this
way under the guiding arm of Vida Gold-
stein.
Barbaric fashions of the hour include ropes
of painted wooden beads, which lovely
Woman hangs round her neck. and
allows to clatter at the waist. There it
meets the full brass band of a clanking chate-
laine. This comprehensive word includes a
selection of all the most useless things that
will hang together on a chain. The arrival
of the up-to-date girl at a matin6e is, there-
fore, like the march of a tin-can melody at a
nigger wedding.
The Denmans were so much to the fore in
the sporting events in the trip between Fre-
mantle and Colombo that even little Judith,
aged five, carried off a prize or two. This
lively infant was roused from her first beauty
sleep, by special request, one evening, and
got an ovation from the company for some
infantine sporting victory. The hon. babe
stood the uproar in sleepy dignity, with
crumpled curls and a few yawns. As the
garments worn by members of the peerage
are invariably described in all Right Think-
ing papers, I may mention that the Hon.
Judith was elegantly attired in her pyjamas,
with coat en suite. The correct garb for
the modern feminine infant is as nearly like
that of her big brother as her dimples allow.
The news of Dean Albert Edward Talbot’s
engagement to a Lancashire lass, with the
high-sounding name of Adrienne Vere, has
stirred fashionable Anglican Society to its
last currant bun. The clerical beau, who
has basked in the smiles of local belles of
the Good Works species for a couple of years
or more, is the pet protege of Archbishop
Wright. For many, many moons, Sydney
got along quite comfortably without a Dean
to inhabit the stone house that wears greeu
ficus whiskers all over its face. When the
youthful Talbot was imported from England,
and put over the heads of local grey-
beards, great was the row in clerical roosts.
The Archgaiters, in this case, simply fol-
lowed the bad old tradition which says: “If
you have a snug billet in the market, send
to Europe for a man to take it; if there is
a curacy begging, the local person is good
enough.” The complacent young Dean was too
raw at his job to rub oil into the sore spots
he bumped into when he wore his new mil-
linery hereabouts, but he grows more sea-
soned nowadays. His girl is invoiced as “a
Titian-haired blonde” (she couldn’t be a
brunette with those sun-kissed locks), aged
19, guaranteed to play the fiddle when re-
quired, and is a visitor to this hamlet. Note
the other girls wonder what they were about
to let the Deanery slip through their fingers
so easily.
The Women’s Handicrafts’ Association
showed what it could do at a recent two-
days’ exhibition in its headquarters, 100
King-street. To be quite candid, it can’t do
much when it attacks art with a brush and
a pot of paint—except on china. The latter
section, which was entombed in a glass case,
was a respectable effort to cover vases and
toilet boxes with harmless objects of in-
terest. If some strong-minded woman could
have hung a towel or two over the alleged
“pictures” on the wall, on the excuse that
they might be struck by lightning, visitors
would have been better disposed towards
some really fine needlework in their vicinity.
Mrs. Sanson’s leather-work and a display
of similar wares by Miss Bamberger helped
the society considerably. Miss Bracknell's
enamel designs—rings, brooches and other
bric-a-brac beloved by Us—were possibly the
best exhibits, barring the needlework, in
the crowded premises. When half a dozen
large ladies buzzed round the small studio
there was no escape but in flight from the
worst exhibits. Until the Handicrafts
pulls itself together, and gets hold of an
able-bodied selection committee, which will
refuse to hang two-thirds of the art trea-
sures sent in and threaten to hang the
perpetrators, the Society is likely to bog in
the same old Slough of Despond.
Lord Dick Nevill is standing nearly waist-
deep in invitations to eat, drink and be
merry with a stack of friends in this town-
ship before making tracks for Vancouver in
the Niagara. He is going to dawdle through
Canada for a few weeks, and get rid of a
sheaf of letters of introduction, if time per-
mits, before going to N’York to board a
craft for England. His Ludship wants to
be under the family roof in Britain in time
to wish his father many happy returns of
his birthday—it will be his 89th—in Sep-
tember. The veteran Marquess of Aber-
gavenny, the “dear kinsman” so often men-
tioned by that industrious scribbler, Lady
Dorothy Nevill, is one of the toughest peers
in Britain, and is still able to turn a re-
signed countenance to the machinations of
Lloyd George.
A number of persons interested in the new
Horticultural Guild for Women put on their
goloshes and paddled through the rain to a
meeting the other night. Miss Brace, hon.
organising sec., rounded up GO or 70 souls,
and seated them in the august precincts of
the Queen Victoria Club, which had been
lent for the purpose. Mrs. Laura Bogue
Luffman took the chair. Two male speakers
addressed the meeting, and the youthful
Mabel Grant-Cooper helped to push the
gathering into its right seats.
Miss Eadith Walker has had a busy time
denying everything, except the fact that G.-G.
Munro Ferguson can have the loan of her
palatial chalet for a month. The Yaralla lady
is calming down, in her Macquarie-street
flat, after seething with indignation at the
notion that she had permanently handed over
her roof to officially-destitute visitors. The
G.-G.’s menage will have to voyage per
water to the city from Yaralla, unless it
wants its individual teeth bumped out by
the fiendish motor-trip to town. Nearly
everyone having now apologised to everyone
else over the Yaralla business, the Ferguson
kilts can make a peaceful visit to the Momma
State, and eat a breakfast chop in peace at
the Concord mansion.
Ada Reeve is inciting spasms of envy in
the female breast by the perpetual changes
in her wardrobe. She has a dove-grey gown
with a wisp of fluffy fur round its tunic;
a French notion in speckled blue silk, looped
up in the fashionable bed-curtain style; and
some white gowns like snowdrifts edged with
lace (I suppose you can trim a snowdrift if
you catch it before it melts). They hang
in her dressing-room at the Tivoli, and any
deserving woman would appropriate them all
with pleasure. Ada is a bright and vivid
personality off the boards, and amongst her
assets she reckons a fine, upstanding hus-
band, named Cotton.
“You don’t half appreciate all the good
things you’ve got here,” chirruped Ada the
other afternoon. “Why, you haven’t even
got a Lloyd George to spoil your fun —let
me see, where was I?” The little lady, who
has been play-acting and such since she was
seven, has tried everything—Comedy, tragedy,
musical comedy, now en-
thuses over vaudeville. She sees many
changes in Australia since she tripped on
the boards here 15 years ago, under the Wil-
liamson management; and she loves our sun-
shine (when the rain is falling in a water-
spout we all wax sentimental over sunny
Sydney) and the enthusiasm of Australian
audiences if they like the goods.
Mrs. Louis Barber, one of Sydney’s old-
est inhabitants, who passed her 80th mile-
stone the other day, had her birthday party
in her home at Potts Point, which a score
or two of friends had turned into a flower-
bed for the occasion. The popular lady-patri-
arch, who is a sister of Justice G. B. Simpson
(now retired from the strenuous task of
untying matrimonial knots in the Divorce
Court), is a daughter of the late Captain
Simpson, R.N. The Simpson family packed
up their chattels for Australia in the days
when you did well if you were only four
months on the voyage from England. Syd-
ney’s water-supply then was mostly from
rumbling water-carts, and Our Best People
took their airings in spring drays or high
yellow gigs. Mr. Ted Simpson, of: the Hun-
ter-street firm of lawyers, is one of the
old lady’s numerous nephews.
The figure 8, as you cut it (with luck)
on the Glaciarium ice, is progressing favor-
ably amongst young and ardent skaters who
don’t mind hitting the frozen floor with
their heads now and again. The latest im-
portations are the Mullers; and spectators
who see the chamois leaps of these experts
are coaxed to stop shivering on the brink
and take six-penn’orth of skates themselves.
Miss Muller’s black velvet skirts whisk past
at. a pace that wins three cheers from the
persons who merely look on.
Baritone Malcolm McEachern, of West-
ralia, who sings at the Melba concerts in
Perth, has been settled there for the last
two years. Singing is a side-line with the
McEachern, who is “something in the city”
by way of buttering his daily crust. He
sang to loud applause during Marie Narelle’s
Australian tour four or five years ago.
Miss Pauline Herbert, a daughter of
Judge Herbert, who adjusts legal matters
in Papua, is going to trip to Java in the
Houtman. The Dutch boat leaves this port
on July 18 with a congested passenger list
for the Samarang Exhibition.
The charity concert which impounded
Dolores and Borwic-k as star events has
turned over about £5O0 —probably more —
to the Hospital for Women and the Renwick
Hospital for sick babes. President Neville
Mayman and hon. manager Brownlow are
shaking hands with themselves over this
big cut off the final £lOOO the hungry Bene-
volent Society has been asking for.
Mary Gaunt, the Victorian scribe who is
working hard for a halo inscribed “Much
travelled,” is now in China. She lately
penned a line or two to the London Daily
Chronicle, re an undesirable person named
Pai Lang of the White Wolves gang. She
concludes: “I shall make a three days’ jour-
ney and look at the Yellow River before I
return to Taiyuan-fu. It will only delay me
a week.... then I shall return, for the in-
terior is going to be no place for a foreigner,
let alone a solitary woman.”
Returning to the rumpus over the Yaralla
homestead, about the last straw was the
description of Miss Eadith Walker as “now
in the evening of her days.” Any woman
as able-bodied and as capable (if ever pushed
to it) of doing a week’s washing as the
wealthy Concord lady has a right to feel
mad at being shoved into the “evening of
her days.” The Yaralla lady may admit to
50 summers, and if that’s the end of all
things, what about male youngsters of 70-
odd winters who are learning the tango?
The first of the newly-arranged programme
of luncheons for Australasians in London
(the number of plates is not mentioned)
occurred at that stupendous menagerie, the
Hotel Cecil, in May. A few stray womenfolk
were inadvertently present, but the pleasure
of Our absence at these gigantic feeds is ear-
nestly requested.
The R. McAndersons, of Lindfiekl, were
at the Langham, in London, when the last
mail left that congested hub.
After all, Eileen Boyd is not included in
the forthcoming tour of the Peter Dawson
co. Her name was on the programme first
sent this way, but the Sydney girl’s engage-
ments on the other side bind her too tight
to let her warble here in 1914. Adelaide’s
Peter opens in this town early in July. He
brings from the Fog soprano Annette
George, contralto Lily Cover, a pianist and
an entertainer. “Parody Pie,” in which the
birds will sing here, is billed as having been
opened in the presence of the King. Whether
his small Majesty liked it or not is known
only to George himself. Many things, in-
cluding suffragette turns, occur in his pre-
sence, but he isn’t always asking for a
second helping.
George Reid has joined the immortals,
a London correspondent tells me—he has
just joined the galaxy of beauty at Madame
Tussaud’s waxworks.
Mischa Elman believes in elbow grease as
an aid to genius, and takes off his jacket
to work when other youngsters are worry-
ing over the fit of a new necktie. All Sun-
day morning, after he’d wiped the smuts of
travel off his impressive brow, he was re-
hearsing as vigorously as if he’d been pre-
paring for his first public appearance on
earth.
The local article still languishes for lack
of appreciation amongst its fellows. Fiddler
W. J. Coad spent three years practising the
art of bowing in Vienna, and came back
to his native heath with a massive reper-
toire of 14 concertos and a library of
smaller stuff at his finger tips. In spite of
this attention to business his recitals here
are too crowded with chair legs to bring in
much cash, and his fine performance the
other evening was up against the most web-
footed weather the prophets can send us.
Pity the sorrows of the shivering rich!
On these bleak, wintry afternoons the Society
maiden may be encountered in the mere
tram, clad in some thin, gauzy garment,
black for choice, with her chest bared to
the passing shower, and nothing more sub-
stantial than a cameo brooch to hold the
weather at bay. With stony eyes she turns
a contemptuous gaze on the unfashionable
poor, who are warmly clothed to their chins.
Next week necks may be boned and trussed
to the ears, after the latest Paris mode.
Meantime our Best People look very blue
under the chin.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
E>arrel=Organist in English Slum.
\ * Vi
O \ (
Cr
A/A
Y\
m
m
/ \
1 7<- :
,4V'
■
4*
mm
gg
W* V.
£
V. ,
Lriie * v
€
/*r
•'//5
Ik
J&gm
II
m
r
* -, T
sm ' te®feasfe^
!!erw«&>>^.Hi^ahr : ..«***•". itJ
7J
RHS*
zmw
SKSt
If*#
sc^e*
[ - v.ypr
>- •- *» »- s-
Wmmm
*2
■*Cv..
.►T*" "
:
■- : m
m
v^tf
£ ‘5
r“
. • - ~
#&**' ?'•*' • \*;~* J ‘*
•J*" ..S''',.^? r " . f(*?* 9C * J *}
#
sut
if^ c
aK'-’/pf''
if ’H^
J.4t>sAO
lOM C '
V““N
s#!®
'-‘•V
if
Cobra,
Boot
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sets a young
And lively crew
Dancing to a
Jolly strain
In each sunless
Street and lane.
Though they’re poor
They still can be
Gay as folk
In Arcady.
“COBRA” brightness,
When all’s told,
Brings more joy
Than miser’s gold.


a
a
a
tz
y*
FARMER’S WINTER
CASH BONUS SALE
Begins Tuesday Next, 30th June, 1914*
10 per cent. Bonus 2/= in the £
Besides Sweeping Reductions.
Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale is a Genuine Clearance Sale of Dependable Winter Goods and
Surplus Stocks at Reduced Prices, During the Sale the whole of our §tock (a few proprietary
lines alone excepted! is subject to the Bonus of 10 per cent. (2/- in the £) for Cash, in addition
to Sweeping Reductions.
FARMER’S SALE CATALOGUE.
Fanner’s Sale Catalogue is now. ready. It has been prepared for the benefit of our Country
Patrons, offering them the means of taking part in this greatest of all Bargain Events, '
It contains many unique offers and countless money-saving opportunities,
to possess a copy should 'write- for-it without delay. We send it Post Free.
Those wishing
FARMER’S,
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS,
SYDNEY.
isiNjHl
2$
/oimh^a
CO
®3
I*
si
mmm/w/A
m
h
There’s Comfort 1
■ \
and Wear in...
DUNLOP
RUBBER
HEELS*
They not only
absorb all jarring,
but will outwear
several pairs of
leather Heels.
TRY A PAIR!
STOCKED IN VARIOUS STYLES
ALL LEADING BOOT SHOPS.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTES.
• M M Jt
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all States & N.Z.
BY
MILES
THE
BEST
That's
_ What
Users say
of-
TYRES
Obtainable
all
Garages
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 22, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The June meeting at Caulfield used to be a
man’s horse-outing. On Saturday it was
turned into quite a big social event. Both
sets of Governor-folk Avere booked to appear,
and the Best People rustled loyally after them.
Caulfield is now looking its best and the day
Avas blue; so everybody had a good excuse
for being there. The G.-G. rammed a small
hal’d hat well down over his ears and took
(or pretended to take) a tremendous interest
in the sport. His party spent a lot of time
in the birdcage. Her Ex. wore blue feathers
to match her eyes, and the plump and dimpled
Doris Blackwood frisked like a kitten, but
did not drink out of a saucer of milk. A
tall boy who is nenhew to the G.-G. made his
appearance as an extra Help. The Stanley
lady fluttered about in dove-colored clothes
Everard BroAvncs and Chirnsides collected
hopefully round the heels of the Chirnside
hope, Little Slam. Mrs. Pursey wore a very
neat veil, and Mrs. Everard talked horse
loudly under a rather bashed hat. Mrs. Sep
Miller and her sister looked demure and
hovered about the Miller horses, and the Bail-
lieus were rushing to and fro. Mrs. Roger
Thompson partied Avith some other Avomen
and spread beautiful trappings of blue
trimmed with ermine. The members’ room
was invaded by a few scattered lunchers.
The Doolettes took their food with the
O’Haras. Mrs. Doolette wearing a simple
Avhite suit of a cut that made Avomen murmur
“Paris!” But it is just as likely that it
came from Collins-street. Croker, looking
very brisk and upright, personally conducted
his just-returned family. (If you haven't
missed them, my deal’, I may as
well tell you they have been abroad.)
Beryl Fanning, in purple, shadowed one
of the many brides she has attended
to the altar within the last few
months. The racing sheep-people were
numerous; but, then, the racing sheep-people
always are.
The Munro Ferguson lady is arranging a
•set for the Newsboys’ Ball, the youthful
trader who rushes about with ’Eralds being
the pampered protege of the Best Fed in
Melbourne. The Northcotes first stood him on
a pedestal in the pose of one pleading for alms
(which he certainly isn’t), and the people
who haven’t the thinking habit rallied gladly
round the idea.
Franklin Peterson, Ormond Professor of
Music at the University, died on Sunday
evening. The popular Prof, had been very
ill for some weeks, but he had often battled
successfully against sickness, and his friends
were counting on his extraordinary vitality
to pull him through. He was a lovable man,
quiet and rarely talkative, but full of wit. His
very capable little Avife, who is of Danish
extraction, helped him considerably with his
Avork and conducted the Women’s Choir
through difficult passages.
Matlock House, the private hospital in
which the Blackwood lady is immured, has
been besieged by the Best People and the
visiting cards have to be shovelled into
buckets. The daily crop of flowers would be
sufficient to supply a shop. So far, Dr.
Davenport, who is in charge, has refused all
callers except the Fergusons and the Stanley
lady. I wonder did the sick lady condole
with the G.-G. ? You know that he recently
suffered the pangs of double dissolution.
On Saturday afternoon, towards the. end
of his final matinCe concert, Mischa Elman
played with one eye on the distant Crock..
The wonderful little man had to catch the
five o’clock express to Sydney, and the last
number of a bracketed triolet had still to be
sawed off when the black hands showed a
quarter to. But Elman never gets flurried.
Dad had probably packed the Strad., and got
the other case ready to receive the Amati.
The item over, the violinist dived sideways
into his travelling coat, waved his hat like
a schoolboy off .for the holidays, and Avas
soon whirring aAvay down Collins-street to
the station.
For this last concert the Town Hall was
crowded to the organ loft, in spite of blue-
cold weather, and half a dozen other attrac-
tions. A flock of musicians on the wing
flew in to listen to the little wizard. - Paul
Dufault and pianist Whittle were amongst
them. Some of the Williamson revue
people also enjoyed a change of atmosphere.
Daisy Jerome came in for a while, and Jack
Cannot arrived with his bride.
The Conservatorium people gave a party
to Maud Allan on Friday last. The Eastern
Hill galleries are still enriched by the
Streeton pictures, so the musical people are
rushing all the functions they have in vieAV.
Maud Allan, all eyes and a Mother Hubbard
cloak, seemed to take the adoring fuss very
seriously, moving about amongst her wor-
shippers with a rapt Spring Song expression.
The youthful Cherniavskys followed meekly,
like overgrown lambs. “Bubbles” (the piano
artist) showed his trademark mop of curls
high above the heads of the crowd. He has
now exceeded by several feet the correct
Fauntleroy height. Mrs. Isaacs and her
daughter were in close attendance. This
dame has been,most hospitable to the young
trio* making up tnany parties-for their-enter-
tainment. Mayoress llennessy Avas wrapped
in chinchilla furs and a smile. Fritz Hart
hosted and his white-plumed wife offered buns
and gallantly led a storming party of tea-
girls. The Pinschofs loomed large in the
crowd. They are great loomers. Daughter
Mrs. Bindley wore the usual superior air
of the young bride Avho finds herself at largo
amongst still-unattached girl friends. Fleet-
ing glimpses were caught of the restless
Streeton’s grey Vandyke chin-trimmings.
O’Hara walked round like a telegraph pole,
and Mrs. Carlyle Smythe had a few words
with the worshipped Maud. However, the
words were friendly, and no harm was done.
Mrs. Stead imparted the information that
the talking party at the Repertory Club Avent
off splendidly, and Repertory dramatist Louis
Esson lingered round with his clever Avife,
Avho used to be Dr. Bull before Louis
changed her name for her.
Maud Allan got a big crowd on Saturday
night. You see, the Salome Dance was on
the programme at last, and nobody knew
just how daring Salome would be. Shaks-
pearian investigators excused themselves by
saying they wanted to gauge the deep damna-
tion of her taking-off, and note its relation,
if any, to Hamlet, Prince of Denmark.
Maud did the stunt in a colored chiffon skirt
loaded with jewels. The purple and green
color scheme was delightful, and the stage
was admirably set; but Maud’s writhings
grew rather monotonous, and her gloating
over the severed head of John the Baptist
•was hardly gruesome enough for the money.
Moreover, John’s head retained its careful
hair-parting—which seemed foolish, consider-
ing the disturbing effect of the tragedy in
which he had just played the lead. The
house Avas stiffly fashionable, and two men
out of three were either bald or had their
hair gummed down behind their ears in the
modern manner. It was just as well the
gods were few, for I heard one of them
remark to a friend that the show was
“crook.” This is, I understand, the last
word in condemnation. Iceberg Irvine,
then under sentence of K.C.M.G., headed a
large party in the stalls. Mrs. Fan Dango-
Maekay and Essie Perrin-Ivcrouse motored
to the door in company, and sat together like
devoted sisters. Daisy Jerome boxed with
a party. She was cutely dressed in white,
with a black-and-white bonnety thing tied
round her head. Mrs. Inglis Avas with the
Higgs couple. All the Society backfatters
seemed to be present and the amount of
boiled shirt almost decided me to buy some
shares in a steam laundry.
The highbrows who have souls to feed had
a fine range of shows to choose from this
last week-end. On Saturday there was the
Repertory matinee at the Royal, and in the
evening there was choice of Bauer, Alex-
ander Watson, Maud Allan and Mischa
Elman. The joy of getting so many at
once is that the harried highbrow can do
the easiest one and have a splendid excuse
for dodging all the others.
Music-lovers Avho attended the Bauer con-
cert on Saturday night got a mild scale
when smoke began to drift in like fog. Bauer
continued to reel off Brahms and no man
left his chair. But presently the smoke got
thicker, and at last even the artist had to
cough. He got up from his stool, spoke
soothing words to his audience, and said he
Avould go and investigate. The house fid-
geted nervously Avhile he was off the plat-
form: but the pianist quickly returned and
explained sweetly that there was no cause
for alarm —the furnace had made a slight
mistake. Then all hands sighed with relief
and the melody-making was resumed in a
threatening haze which gradually " cleared
away again.
Streeton’s fine show of pictures tempo-
rarily swept artistic Melbourne off its
feet; but-, now that Streeton has packed up,
Melbourne may have time to run down to the
Athenasum and inspect the impressive array
of work suspended in the upper room by
the Australian Associated Artists. The
date for this show was fixed a whole year
back. Edward Officer, then in London, in-
duced men like Lambert, DaAds and Streeton
to send out loan pictures. Streeton sent
one and Lambert and Davis two
each. Other men represented (the Asso-
ciation is limited to about a dozen first-class
practitioners) are Hans Heysen, Mather,
McCubbin, Withers. Web Gilbert and Am-
brose Patterson. The art-lover will still be
in time if he hurries away immediately after
reading this paragraph. '•
Streeton rave an educational lantern-slide
party at Eastern Hill the other evening.
Guests arriving after the stroke of nine (in-
vitation time) found themselves lost in semi-
darkness and a spooky air of mystery. Broad
white curtains, hung at the foot of the wide
grey stairs, suggested a lurking-place for
mediums, and a huge statue, shrouded in
pale grey, gave most folk a shock as they
made their slow way upward. Streeton,
long and slender, danced lightly in front of
the lantern screen, while he enthused about
the _ color .in the scenes. The slides were
all in hard black and white, so the artist had
to hypnotise his audience into seeing tones
in them. It required a fairly big effort, for
they were rather dim. Afterwards he let
,his hearers loose in a brightly-lighted room
full of his own glowing pictures. The invi-
tation cards had been so impressive that
everyone had struggled into correct evening
clothes; consequently, the gathering was
rather astonished at its own splendor. The
Bohemian section got a horrible shock when
it found there was no supper, while the des-
pair of the usually Best Fed was pathetic
to witness. Nowadays anyone who is good
enough to supply food for thought is fully
expected to also supply food for digestion.
The Sandringham golfers have captured
both Excellencies. The G.-G. plays well, and
Stanley is a mild expert at every sort of ball
game.
Gent-Help Gale, of the Stanley staff, is
making a bid for notoriety as the supporter
ot the smallest moustache south of the line.
It consists of two microscopic tufts of dark
Avhisker perched like twin moths on the top
edge of a pink rosebud. lam afraid that some
short-sighted person may yet make the mis-
take of telling him that he has got a smut on
his face. To the unspectacled it looks beau-
tifully inhuman —the sort of trifle that could
only have escaped from a panto, artist’s
make-up box.
Marjory Anderson, daughter of Mrs.
Anderson, a Brisbane political lady, has
arrived in Melbourne from foreign parts
with a barrowload of fine musical degrees.
She was a fellow-student of St. Ledger, the
youthful conductor of the Maud Allan co.’s
orchestra. Now. being fully equipped, she
is going to track the piano and singing pupil
to their lair and teach the unfortunate ani-
mals something,
Ford Paterson, son of artist Hugh, and
nephew of the late John Ford, has done well
on the land in the fruitful Goulburn Valley.
He is only in his very early twenties,
but he has built himself a house and is now
about to take a wife. The girl is the 19-
year-old daughter of Major Hep worth, an
Imperial army man who came here a year
ago to help us solve the Defence problem.
Mr. Howe (I believe he belongs to the
Adelaide Lands) lately made a strong bid
for a stick that comedian Harry Lauder car-
ries. The bit of timber has a high senti-
mental value to a Scot, for it belonged to
James Hogg, the rhyming “Ettrick Shep-
herd.” - But Harry would not part with it
on any consideration. A descendant of Hogg,
rooted somewhere in the wilds of Scotland,
gave it to Lauder with tears and his bless-
ing. “Ye’ll gang amang Scots in a’ pairts
o’ the wairld,” said the later Hogg, “an’ ye
can show them the stick for a char-rm.”
“Rosna’s” note from London -
Una Bourne, the pianist girl from Melbourne, has
just been playing her best tunes to Mary, Queen of
England. While suffragettes were step-dancing with
2000 policemen outside Buckingham Palace the
Australian girl was in the drawing-room counting
notes of honey. Her several tours with Melba and a
successful bout of concerts abroad have helped Una
Bourne so many leagues up Parnassus that mighty
few Australians are now or ever have been ahead of
her.
The Mount Morgan D’Arcy matron, Avith
sister Mrs. Phil Nutting, is coming back to
take a look at the country where the family
wealth originated, after a quarter of a cen-
tury spent in London and thereabouts.
Mrs. Everard Browne gave a dinner party
to farewell Dick Nevill. The food was
spread at Menzies’, and the Western District
people came down in a flock to eat it and say
nice things to the man who used to carry the
social divining rod.
Aubrey Hoad, son of the late General, is
back at his theatrical job again. He com-
mences a Melbourne season very shortly and
is busily preparing for the opening produc-
tion of “Jelfs,” the tliree-act comedy by 11.
A. Vachell. A curtain-raiser written by
Aubrey himself will precede it. The Aus-
tralian rights of Shaw’s “Pygmalion” are
his, and he intends to offer Australian audi-
ences Hitchens’s “The Woman with the
Fan” and Sheridan’s “Critic.” His company
is being collected locally and in England,
and the juvenile lead is a beautiful young
man named Victor Scott, Avho is on his way
from South Africa.
The ancient pastime of crochet is fash-
ionable once more, and any old lady found
doing it is at once suspected of being in the
vice-regal set. It had a sad slump during
the reign of the Denmans; but the Stan-
ley lady has picked up the threads dropped
by the terribly industrious Carmichael, and
everybody’s doing it again.
I’ianiste Doris Madden, who is to tour AviLh
Melba in Westralia, goes thither by the Mol-
davia.
G. W. Rusden, who for a couple of gene-
rations was Clerk of the Parliaments in
Victoria, left his house in Punt-road, Mel-
bourne, to. tjie Church of England Grammar
School. The place, though nice and valu-
able, has never been used for any school
purpose; but as the big place on the Road
has, no more room for boarders, the Clerk’s
old snuggery is for the future to be occupied
by Grammar School boys.
The recent mayoral prance at St. Ivilda
was voted a success, and grateful citizens
are arranging a return function at the end
of the month. The Crack of Doom will find
a number of people getting ready for some-
thing of the kind, and the invitation cards
will automatically become the property of
the Fiend-in-Chief.
From my Adelaide correspondent—
The Governor, Capt. Fletcher arid Private Secre-
tary Mulholland liaVe returned from Mount Gambler
and Narracoorte. Like ex-President Roosevelt, they
refrained from mentioning Mr. Savage Landor’s name,
though he too explored these regions when he was
in Australia. The pettiness of the Great! Lady
Galway stayed in Adelaide, and prayed night and
day that all might be well with the intrepid
wanderers.
Miss Clarke (she belongs to the episcopal family of
that name) has left the arid, wastes of Petersburg,
where she was staying with lier doctor brother, and
will, for a while, be ~the guesb'of the Maunds at
Craters.
Mr. Richard Kruckey, who died in, a private hospi-
tal on Sunday night, helped "to, survey the overland
telegraph line. He was born In Cornwall in’ ’43, and
came to Adelaide six years later, moving from
there to the Burra and Kapunda. In ’66 he became a
chainman. in the Survey Department, and, later,
helped the late G.--W: .Goyder in his survey of Darwin
and the surrounding country. In "iQ-hd began-'on the
overland telegraph line above mentioned, and in
76 was appointed overseer : in the erection of the
line from Port Augusta'to Eucla. He’tried‘his luck
on the Westralian goldfields, but with no success,
and came back about three years ago. He was
always a keen bushman, and only a few weeks ago
had taken a trip with a team up to Powell’s Creek.
He it—was. who - discovered and named Charlotte
Waters and Dalhousie Springs.
Mrs. Arthur Rymill and Miss Alice Campbell were
joint hostesses at a Pierrot dance, on Wednesday even-
ing, at the Campbell home in North Adelaide.
The Hughes-Gwynne marriage is to be on June 24
at Payneham, and the list of guests has been kept
as small as the number of Hughes and Gwynne rela-
tives will allow. The Demster-Lane wedding will be
in early July, at St. Matthew’s, Marryatville, of which
church the prospective bridegroom’s father is rector.
Mrs. T. G. Wilson asked her friends to tea at the
Queen Adelaide Club on Monday. She wore soft
black satin with a dash of skunk and a touch of ivory
net. Her mother, Mrs. George Brookman, was also
in black—a smart coat and skirt of silk poplin. Mrs.
T. E. Barr Smith clothed herself in grey cloth and
a coat of coney seal, and Airs. James Harvey smote
the on-looking eye smartly with a gorgeous shade of
red.
Instead of telling him that he could be a King
Penguin, or a Lord of the Seal, the incon-
siderate George has made our unoffending Mawson
a mere small thing in Knights. His missus hasn’t
had long to wait to be ladied, anyway. Twelve
years or so ago she landed in Australia, a little
Dutch doll ; three months ago she married her
Antarctic Douglas; and now, if she wanted to
flounce —which she doesn’t —she could do it ahead
of nearly everyone in this village.
George’s other small offering to S. Australia fell
to old Dr. Barlow, who has been a devoted nurse
of the University ever since it was an infant in
1874. The late Chaffev Baker, the first President
of the Senate, used to be his partner-in-law.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
Still going strong
A\,\ w %\ %
mm i
*4
r j '
; / ,■ r
V
/ %
Wa
V
rf
y-7 / y
1
a
w
&
7
-
f.
«
I^7/
4^
4
K~
?S
</A
»V.’
IP
%
s^>
X 7
£
\M
--?
m
y?x
*A
=v
y
/
a
/i
&
<r
m
X 77
ST'
X/
Ml
5sS
&>
:
W A
:
%
' 'Hm
/Jim
m
k
m
V,
A
K
%
V
Yf
I
//.
to
1
X
Xz/
N
'V
7//
r?
/
g=s
fil
HI
%
<U-
dy
so
\>o
■A, //i
m e
so
For
Somebody’s waiting
mi
W’
1 il' 1
m
7~r*9
There is no need to wait for “Johnnie Walker,” you will find it
everywhere, and always the same unvarying Johnnie // all < i
perfection the standard of quality
Same family management since 1820.
Red
Every Drop over
IO Years Old
In Non-refillable Bottles.
To safeg uard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of the past . First & foremost to set
that the margin of stocks over sales is always large enough to maintain our unique quality %
Bottled only by JOHN WALK.HR
& SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK , SCOTLAND.
And at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.


for all parts of your
Motor Gar
WOOD GUA6S
WW*
Bon Ami
hfd
Bon Ami removes the dirt only—
polishes beautifully, and will not
scratch.
ttiu
For
Bathrooms
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling,
marble,
enamel
and
porcelain.
Bon Ami
Just try it in your bathroom.
asf
hfd
“rEsculapius”: In ancient Greece they used to
erect temples over natural springs and give to each
a titular diQty. We moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water—only our
methods differ somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to the
Earl of Hopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
_ “ Fi ” aro ” : Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N Q
but close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as' an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature is
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of “Helidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well, a”single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HELIDON
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
Main Bearing ’: Tie “Arnheim’s” assertion
that he defies “Wallaby” to find or nominate any
man of any race that goes down into the water
after fish. Some years ago I did a lot of reef fishing
in and around Fiji, and very often,; if I did not
have any luck, the two Fijians who accompanied
me would dive and enter any of the fissures along
the edge of the reef, returning generally with a fish
apiece. One of the men was an expert at the game,
and on two occasions brought up a fish in each
hand. About 12 years ago, for a consideration of
five bob, I saw two Tokelan men go into the water
and kill a shark. When we hauled it up it measured
14ft. 9in., and had 31 stabs in its body, nearly all
in the belly. There were a lot of preliminaries, but
between the first knife and the stiffener less than a
quarter of an hour was: occupied. I make the asser-
tion that the'Tokelahs are the only natives in the
South Seas who will go in and tackle a decent-sized
shark in open water.
SBILL FASCINATING.
HE: “ Does her husband still find her
fascinating ? ”
SHE: “Yes—with the other men. ?
“Pickhandle”: In B. 4/G/’l4 “Jack S.”
say r s he observed Queensland cypress pine posts, 50
years old, still free from termites, though in an
ant-infested district. That experience is nothing
out of the general run. The cypress pine is not a
toothsome delicacy when cut into a post and stand-
ing ; but let the same timber lie on the ground and the
insect glutton will make a meal of it in 50 winks.
Standing within a hundred yards of my hut is a
fence which has braved the breeze and the ravages
ot the white ant for over 50 years. This is built
of New South” cypress pine and inhabits the
Oondobohn district. I’ll pay postage on any older
fence of its kind.
Marloo ’: The N.S.W. dairyman’s night-
mare, the “Queensland” tick, is making its wav
down the North Coast. During the latter part of
May numbers of the pest were found on cattle in
the crowded Lismore saleyards, and on bullocks
< rawing timber into Casino. Presumably they are
even further south, though undiscovered by in-
spectois as yet. In many cases where thev have
cockv °hT htCrally swa rming on milking ‘ cattle,
,' y , f s mgenuously remarked that he hadn’t
“1“ , "eslisence. The south., r,l
rattle to rnf P , 7 the Shire councils Permitting
clean areas roads from Quarantine to
mont r 1 ’ In alS ° by the Agricultural Depart-
the quafantiue re S ulationa . Most dairymen in
- ‘"p ‘SSL -£
zip . * .? to “h'rrrs 2
.M punch, l ß '“ « “«« »»<>. hi.
* * -
*
T Sl )l ke ” 1 Runiinatil) S over a collision
1 had the other evening, I recalled the largest bag
of rabbits that ever came my way. It was nn
at Brandion, and I had my old friend “Billy B”
went ; ° m ° rning we took a couple of guns and
rid * ab ° Ve , a narr ° W gully - Bil| y stalking a low
hilfs were 0 ” 6 f t i'"' 1 . 1 the op P osite elevation. The
hills were infested with rabbits, and presently two
shots cracked almost simultaneously. Then a "some
what remarkable thing took place. Hundreds of
bunnies on Billy’s range, to escape liis gam tore
down the incline, making across Die flat for Die
thc a ron -T aS ° n ’ Whlle a similar velocity occupied
safett b on th° n the object o{ finding
safety on the opposite hill. The crash of thoct
and terrified thousands colliding was like
the fall of a timber stack. The dead and stunned
" 010 piled over the valley five deep.
'** * *
N. or M.”: “Polstan” (B. 21/5/’l4l
oT'mL 38 if i b i ePS made a Special concession in favor
mice as lodgers. My experience is that they will
tolerate almost any species of undesirable alien so
long as it does not take liberties. The not infre
quent possum dredged out of the bush bees’ honev
on o ‘the r 0 y °° meS hy hiS death thrSt >gh trampling
have a wav °nf CeS ‘ AntS ’ lizai ’ ds ’ spiders and such
blocks of half fill dT ng Un ° btn,siv % ln the back-
bf; s ba 7 t Cd h T eS - S ° aS the colony is-
,? ® st ' on £,. they do no particular harm but
directly the hive weakens they are down on the
stores like brigands and the rest is riot-and corpses.
Drummer”: That molar had ; nagged a
>t on several occasions, but had never really settled
down to business until one night when
1 was in a small village in,Fiji, sev-
eral days’ sail from the nearest den-
tist. It was a very hot night, and
niv neives throbbed an accompani-
ment to the booming of the surf on
the reef. By dawn I was fairly des-
perate, and determined: to get the
tooth out somehow. First blocking
my jaws with a small piece of wood
in each side of my mouth to prevent
it closing, I tied one end of a
gut fiddle-string firmly to the tooth,
then stood on a box and made the
other end fast to one of the roof-poles
of the hut, leaving no slack to speak
■of. Bracing my nerves for the .final
act I then kicked over the box on
which I stood. If when I die my
soul goes where I have often been
assured it will, I am quite confident
that his Nibs won’t devise anything
worse than what I suffered' then, for
that cursed tooth held and left me
suspended. I let out some sort of a
yell which brought one of the boys
to the door, but he came no farther.
One look at my lovely face and wildly
clawing hands sent him marathoning
through the village yelling that the
tauraga had hanged himself, which
news sent the other nigs, scuttling
into the bush. At last I managed
to get my sheath-knife out with one
hand, and, cutting the gut, fell into a
heap. For some time my jaws were
too stiff to close, and it was several
days before 1 could cat without pain.
But the tooth stopped aching, and if
any of you care to try my cure, I
can guarantee it will be effective.
“Pick” : For making a do of it under any
circumstances the magpie is the readiest bird I
know. Essentially a bush inhabitant, he is often
driven by hard luck to earn his worm on the un-
sheltered plains. Then observe him. In the mating
season he hustles forward family affairs in a tene-
ment under the stark ribs of a dead horse, or in
the crevice of a rock, or in a precarious situation
on the top-rail of a fence, or the insulator of a tele-
graph line. Lacking the sticks and twigs of bush-
land, he seizes upon various and curious material
ior the foundation of the nursery. On Bibbenluke
plains last summer a nest, found in the fork of two
crossed saplings holding the top-rail of an old fence,
was beautifully constructed of the wire snippings
irom a rabbit-proof fence, interwoven with a pea-
rifle cleaner (rag attached). His collecting opera-
tions must have extended for miles, and anv tres-
passer who attempted an examination of the remark-
able structure was cursed publicly and the marital
relations of Ins grandmother were openly questioned.
THAT NEIGHBORLY INTEREST.
WIFE: “There is a scisso[?] - grinder at the door . Henry . yon anything you wish
henry: "No; but tell him to go next door to Hopkins's. I want to borrow his
lawn-mower to-morrow , and it needs sharpening terribly!”
“Sarto”: I saw a bird the other day that
I haven’t seen before. His head, neck, shoulders,
breast and tail were a bluish-white, while the wings
were of a very dark .slate color, almost black. He
had a straight bill rather long and slender. The
tail could be called pointed. From a back view I
should say he was about 12in. long, of medium
build, and he sat straight up and down like six
o clock. Any Abo. scribe got his acquaintance?
“Yarrum” : It is bad enough in the cow
districts when mean cookies slave their own children
in the bails, but, lately, many farms have fallen
into the hands of meaner sons, who, having no
workable families of their own, hire neighbors’ chil-
dren to toil for them night and morning for next
to _ nothing. In the Illawarra (N.S.W.) district,
writer knows of 50 school youngsters Vho are thus
ill-used, and who, in consequence, are being ruined
mentally and physically. The 'children, agk, during
these short days, to leave school ..at 2.80 p.m. (it is
almost dark before they are done teat-tugging), and
they rarely attend much before 11 a.m. The most
disgraceful part of the business is that the poor
kiddies I m talking about are the offspring of union
men—or alleged union men or alleged men. Which
is it?
* * *
“Oimai” : The recently reported discovery
of a sea snake on a Botany beach recalls an un-
pleasant minute or two of whjch a nautical worm
was the primary cause. Writer and a mate were en
route to the Waria River, on the N.E. coast of Papua,
to collect vine rubber. The journey by land proving
wet and boggy beyond expectation, the firm decided
to charter a big native outrigger canoe, which was
on offer, and paddle the last 10 or 12 miles from the
mouth of the Gira to that of the Waria. All our
tucker and trade was carefully balanced on the
centre platform, and great care had to be taken to
prevent the weight of it over-balancing the outrigger
and capsizing the cranky concern into the shark-
haunted waters. The sea was like glass, and when,
about dinner-time, we were nearing the Waria, a big-
yellow sea-snake appeared on the landward bow”
lazily wriggling on the oily surface. Just as the
’rigger neared him an enormous shark slipped up
from the depths and gathered him in. The shark
came head on to our broadside, and, to get the
snake, shoved his great triangular head with its
appalling gape right out of the water. I got a
ghastly impression of writhing snake and shark den-
tistry, and then the long fellow went into the in-
terior as gently as a well-greased string of sausages.
The shark’s nose just grazed our craft, sending a
shiver through it that went right up my spine and
out of the top of my hat. We walked back.
“Forest Devil’’: “Vigilans” says the
black cockatoo of the Grampians is tipped with
}el low, and that of the north and Kimberley with
red (B. 28/5/’l4). In the mountain ranges around
wO'plgoolga and Qienreagh both kinds abound. If
“\igilans” doubts and forwards his addres3, I will
send him a dead one of each variety. The habits of
both are similar. I have not yet seen or heard of
THE CURSE OF RICHES.
“ Ole Ike don't look too cheerful. Wot’s hup? ”
“Oh, 'e found thrippence and wants to lend
it; but he can't make up his mind about
me pussonal security.”
a nest on the North Coast (N.S.W.), although I’ve
been on the lookout for one for years. Neither have
the local aboriginals. When cocky with a melan-
choly cry leaves the low country and makes for the
mountain ranges, bullockies cast their weather-eye
skyward and make haste to get a few logs to the
nulls before wet weather sets in.
(Continued on ])at/e 24.)
A MATE CAN DO NO WRONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We learnt the creed at ITungerford,
We learnt the creed at Bourke;
We learnt it in the good times,
And learnt it out of work.
We learnt it by the harbor-side
And on the billabong:
“No matter what a mate may do,
A mate can do no wrong! ”
He’s like a king in this respect
(No matter what they do),
And, king-like, shares in storm and shine
The Throne of Life with you.
We learnt it when we were in gaol
And put it in a song:
“No matter what a mate may do,
A mate can do no wrong!”
They’ll say he said a bitter word
When he’s away or dead.
We’re loyal to his memory,
No matter what he said.
And we should never hesitate,
But strike out good and strong,
And jolt the slanderer on the jaw—
A mate can do no wrong!
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


15he KALOPHONE
TALKING MACHINE.
Ivalophone Cabinet in Highly-
Polished Walnut,
Double-spring Motor,
Speed Indicator,
Nickel-plated Turntable,
Recess for Used Needles, etc.
Height: 3ft. lOin.
Depth: 2ft.
Width: lft. lOin.
Model “Sylvia,” No. 303.
High-grade cabinet Kalophone. Specially designed, con-
cealed horn; excellent spring motor; plays two
records- at one winding; niclcelplated turntable;
Maestoso sound box. There is a great demand for
this machine. Price £B/10/-
BEAUTIFUL SOUND
f The Cabinet Kalophone is absolutely unsurpassed in every respect.
Every detail in this talking machine is as perfect as modern
science and art can make it.
The motor is specially constructed to ensure smooth running,
easy regulation and thorough reliability. It is simple in design
and of much strength. Large, double spring, with the latest
devices for maintaining uniformity of speed. Fitted with
correct speed indicator.
]f The tone-arm and sound-box are the latest improvements known
to the science of sound reproduction.
The sound-box is made on special acoustic principles, and gives
the most natural reproduction ever attained. Improved mica
diaphragm.
The taper tone-arm is made so as to afford the greatest magnifica-
tion of the recorded sound waves, and at the same time to exclude
foreign sounds.
If The concealed (wooden) horn is scientifically constructed from
choice old seasoned wood. This gives a mellowness to a repro-
duction on this machine that is unobtainable on others.
Tf The cabinet work is of a high order, of figured walnut, polished
so as to bring out the natural beauty of the wood. Two doors
lead to sound chamber, and two doors lead to a compartment for
holding records. Turntable and fittings throughout are nickel-
plated.
The Cabinet Kalophone is an ornament to any drawing-room.
«[ We have Ivalophones from £3 3s. upwards. Prices of Cabinet
Kalophones: £3O, £25, £l6 165., £8 10s., £4 10s.
«f Kalophones play any disc records, so that the Owner of a Kalo-
phone has all the music of th& world at his command.
«[ Motor runs full speed for one hour, one winding.
Write for ouf Catalogue, “ Every-
thing Musical.” No matter what
musical goods you require we can
supply you.
A Copious Stock of the Latest Records
as per Special Catalogue.
SEND us a deposit with
order and we will
despatch any machine
you may prefer as above. If
not satisfied within 14 days as
to the merits claimed for the
Kalophone, we will return
your money in full. But you
will find the instrument a
never=ending pleasure and in=
struction. Any unskilled per=
son can handle it with ease.
Kalophone Cabinet in Highly-
Polished Walnut,
Double-spring Motor,
Speed Indicator,
Nickel-plated Turntable,
Recess for Used Needles, etc
Height: 3ft. lOin.
Depth: 2ft.
Width: Ift. lOin.
Model “Ganz,” No. 306.
This unrivalled, hornless talking machine meets with
great popular favor. Splendid double-spring motor,
plays three records at one winding. Expressivo
sound box; speed indicator; 12-inch turntable;
special Kalophone taper arm. As perfect as a talk-
ing machine can be made. Price, £ 12/12/-
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNAN DALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a-136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY, opposite Mark Foy’s.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic


PHILLIPS ORMONDE & CO.. Consult-
ing Engineers, Patent anti Trade Mark
Attorneys, 17 Queen Street (Lombard
Buildings), Melbourne. Established ISSS.
810-SHOWMEN!
THr.liK'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
* it tc le the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send tor Cata-
logue. Sole agents: .Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless “fruit laxative” cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness. sick headache, disordered stomach, indi-
gestion. coated tongue, sallowness —take
"California Syrup of Figs.” For the cause
of all this distress lies in a torpid liver and
sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. FI ease
don’t think of “California Syrup of Figs” as
a physic. Don t think you are drugging
yourself or your children. This delicious
fruit laxative cannot cause injury. Even a
delicate child can take it as safely as a robust
man. It is the most harmless, effective
stomach, liver and bowel regulator and tonic
ever devised.
Ask your chimist for a bottle of “Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs.” which has full direc-
tions for babies, children of all ages and for
grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Beware of counterfeits sold here. (Jet the
genuine, made by “California Fig Syrup
( ompuny.' Refuse any other kind with eon-
lempt. “California Syrup of Figs” is sold
by all leading chemists, 1/11 and 1/9.
Martin’s Pills are sold bv all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. i.adies recommend
them. Be sure you sret the genuine with the
signature, Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
BRAND
STUHR.
hfd
STUHK’S
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR & CO.. Hamburg*
Indents through European Exporters only.
“W.J.G.” When the Victorian Closer Set-
tlement Commission was taking evidence at Sale
(Vic.) recently a typical cocky was asked by the
chairman if he employed anyone on his settlement
block. “Yes,” he replied. “How many men?” asked
the Commissioner. “None,” replied the cocky. “Ah,
all boys?” suggested the chairman. “No,” said
cocky, “I ain’t got no boys there either—l -got an
immigrant.” As it happened, there was another
newchnm on the premises where the Commission
was sitting, and for a time it looked as though an
inoffensive coekv was going to need a coffin. Hut in
the end it was all explained somehow.
‘'lOd.” : [ thought Milligan’s case was a
hard one when he explained it to me. “I’m ownin’
a fair bit iv land be the crick,” said be. “Yill mind
it, maybe, t’ yer lift goin’ out, visin’ t’ the hill
b’yant; but havin’ a great, larrge fam’ly by me,
’n’ the missus took with rheumatiz most fraquint,
’n’ a distressful long law case behind me a year,
’tis shmall manes I have t’ protect me rights V
belong!nV trim privileged oppression V the like.
The land adjacent me on the right <Jo beeslong t’ a
shwankin' rich, big feenancial institution away to
the city, same havin’ sazed it with jue notice ’n’ lagil
forrm trim O’Dowd —divil fly off wid him! ’Twas
O’Dowd started the prevarication, savin’ his land
incroaehed across Hie crick tin fut, whin ivry man
iv knowledgibility ’n’ orthinary intelligence is aware
me sacred rights cover the crick where it abuts ’n’
ajines. Manny’s the good, clane fight I had wid'
O’Dowd t’ settle the divarjince, ’n’ I'll say that
fer O’Dowd —he was the elane, gipod fighter. I
bate him that oftin the land wiis mine in all
daceney. O’Dowd passed on the dishpute to this
blusterin' sthrong corporation ’r what not, ’n’ they
sint wan McLeod t’ run it. The man McLeod would
have a fince runnin’ the whole length my side iv
the crick, V fer mesilf I would have it otherwise,
Whin he ldm t’ fix the fince, 1 tuck ’n’ troo him in
the crick. I troo him in the crick ez rnanny ez
twinty times, ’n’ the hla’guard wasn’t convinced.
They pit' other min on t’ build the fince, ’n’ I troo
iv’ry wan in the crick. ’Tis a blessin’ I have me
stringth. Then T troo the fince in the crick. Thin
kim the law-shoot, ’n’ the law was enable t’ decide
wan way or another, so we shtarted over agin, ’n’
T troo the manager in the crick sivril times a day
barrin’ Sundays. The feenancial institution wid
low cunnin’ decided at this juncture ’twould change
its manager V put on a mortal sick man wid hearrt
disase ’n’ thin t' the hone wid : ’n’
’twas give out that iv e’er a man pit* hand to Collis
he’d dthrop stone did in his Imtes: so poor a miser-
able spalpeen lie was wid the decayed hearrt he
have. They have me mortal afraid, mind yeh. I
can’t bate Collis, ’n’ lie's huildin’ the fince on me
’ll’ stalin’ the eriek on me, ’n' waitin’ t’ dthrop did
the min ute I pit mo hand to him. 1 can't trow him
in the crick at all, ’n’ I’m warmed that he pullin’
down his fince I’ll give him the shock would he
mor-r-tal, the same bein’ manslaughter whin notice
in writin’ is jooly sarved. What would a ]ioor man
do in circumstance the like of that?” Milligan
almost wept. I had the hick, later on, to be at
Quinn’s Bridge when Milligan got to Collis. He
fought Collis all over an acre of thistles, be threw
Collis in the creek 15 times, and pelted him under
with fragments of the financial institution’s new
fence. When Milligan was disengaged I asked for
an explanation. “The thafe iv the worrld!” said
Milligan. “Was iver a bla’guard liar like a stock,
station ’n’ land invistment institoot? It have jist
come t’ me ear the docthor lias passed Collis ez a
sound man for the life insurance. Will yeh lave
me at him ?” And Milligan started again.
NOT DEADLY—MERELY FATAL.
JACKEOO (anxiously): “Just bitten, by a
beastly gohanna. Will it kill me?”
GRASSMERE NELLY : “No killem. Git sick
two, three day, then die.”
“N. or M.”: “Bulli” must liave left his
nose and palate at home when he set out to study
the mutton-bird (B. 28/5/’l4). “It is peculiar,”
he says, among other items of variegated informa-
tion, “that though fed entirely on the fishiest of
HE WOULD OVERLOOK IT.
THE PARSON : “ Conductor , do you allow intoxicaled people to travel your tram, sir?”
THE CONDUCTOR : “ That’s all right, sir. You sit still an' don't make a noise an' I
won’t say nothin’ about it.”
fishy foods, the bird has no ancient and fish-like smell
or taste.” Now, listen. The mutton-bird of com-
merce smells to the cemetery of Heaven; the
strength of its odor, properly conserved, would run
a motor; the fishiness of it would give . a marine
atmosphere to the rabbit warrens of Canberra. Con-
sumption patients who can digest the oily slabs are
said to derive great benefit therefrom, and the birds
are excellent fodder for anyone who has been muck-
ing about all day in the cold and wet. In conse-
quence they find favor on Tassy’.s rain-drenched AYest
Coast. As for their not being fat, the bloated capitalist
of a Bulletin cartoon is nothing to them. Mutton-
birding was specially designed by Providence to
provide congenial occupation for the aboriginals and
half-castes on the specklets dotted around the northern
part of Tassy. AA’ith reasonable care the rookeries
should last indefinitely, but the half-caste is not a
foresighted person, and is with difficulty prevented
from scooping up the harvest at untimely seasons.
It is a great sight to see the flocks of birds rise and
make out to sea in the early morning, returning in
black, whirring clouds as night falls, and settling
noisily into their place. During the nesting season
pa and ma take it in turns to attend to domestic
duties, leaving the disengaged partner free to have
a day off.
“Eddyson”: “Didja know Moir?” said Fin-
narty. “That’s the man would blow out his brains.
’Tis himself sittin’ forlorn, wid a long beer in the
two hands of him. ’Tis a man could be forlorn in
any circumstances. And him blew out his own brains
a year come Monday. Moir wed wid Mrs. Quin
from Tinbad, two ehilder ’n’ a cow, ’n’ along about
a year said Moir: ‘Life is not worth th’ livin’ wid
th’ bother ’n’ ixpense iv it,’ sez he. ‘’N’ how would
a likely man be dyin’ ?’ He Came consultin’ wid me
iv a Sunday, ’n’ 1 was fer hangin’ him be a tree,
hangin’ him clean ’n’ Christian ’n’ favored iv th’
law. But Moir is never at all a precipitat man.
He consult wid other ixperts, notable McGuire what
kep’ the shoe forge, ’n’ McGuire had a natural likin’
fer a nice, war-rni death a-bed, wid a thrifle iv
poison. He give Moir th’ prescription. . ’Twas
Quilham from Isle iv Man was advocit iv shootin’,
’n’ takin ’up a gun, ’n’ showin’ how convaynient ’n’
expeditious it was an’ all, he blew the own ear off
himself, which yill see if yeh call anny day bar.'
Sunday. Pike had a born prejudice fer drowndin’,
’n’ one evenin’ he tuck Moir a pilgrimage t’ th’
deep holes beyond Pegley, ’n’ slung a stone fer th’
neck iv Danny, wid many a divertin’ tale iv a quiet
end in still wathers.- Then Moir, bein’ still undecide,
asked Kelly, ’n’ Kelly give his candid opinion that a
death be suffocation wid charcoal was a soothin’ ’n’
most merciful finish to a long ’n’ hon’rable career,
’n’ Danny Moir lie tuck notes, ’n’ thankit Kelly
kindly. He would give it jew consideration, said he.
Annyway he was ixtremely obliged t’ ivery wan, V
wished t’ take this opportunity iv ixpressin’ his
great gratitude t’ all tliim what tuck a humane ’n'
brotherly interest in his killin’. Two days later
Moir turned up et McGuire’s place, wid a fist-full of
old rope, ’n’ ‘What d’ yeh mane,’ sez he, ‘tollin’ a
man t’ suicide his own self wid th’ like?’ ’X' he
flung til’ shtuff ct McGuire. “Tis oakum!’ cries
McGuire. ‘ ’X’ didn’t I be fellin’ yeh opium. ’Tis
the wrong poison.’ ‘Wrong poison?’ squealed Moir.
‘Wrong poison? Ye’re wantin’ t' lie more careful.
McGuire. I’m tollin’ yeh T tuk half a var-rd, -V it
damn near killed me!" Later Moir tried hangin’ on
me own recommend, but be a strange oversight come
be a nasty accident. He picked th’ tree all right,
’n’ he climbed it oz arranged. Be tIT same token he
fastened th’ rope be a limb, ’n' he fell from th'
tree proper ’n’ in good order, but be reason iv his
forgettin’ t’ hitch th’ loop round his wine pipe lie
hit th’ earth terrible, ’n’ brack two ribs. Fortunit
they were spare ribs, ’n’ no great matter, ’n' within
a week Danny was out at Pegley wid an effort t’
drownd himself. But he let’ th’ rope too long be
th’ stone. V Bighouse’s gr-reat dog kim ’n’ dthragged
th’ poor man out, ’n’ bit him fer wantin’ t’ go in
agin. Suffocation wid charcoal was th’ very next
effort. Danny saw Kelly about it tli’ day afther.
Sez lie: ‘Kelly, ver a liar, ’n’ more betoken a mean
liar ’n’ a dirty t’ be puttin’ yer deceit on a dyin’,
man. 1 went wid meself t’ th’ fruit house, ’n’ I
stuck th’ cracks up so you advised ; ’n’ three hours
aftlier 1 was never better in 1110 life.’ ‘Did yeh use
enough charcoal are yeh sure?’ said Kelly. ‘I did.
yeh bla-guard—/ ate a pound!' Danny tried t' shoot
himself iv a Sunday, hi’ killed his wife's cow. Thai
was near t' bein’ successful, indirectly ’n’ be per-
adventure, becaze Airs. Moir chased him a week wid
a hit iv an axe. Moil’s last effort t’ date was be th’
advise ’n’ recommendation if a minin’ man name iv
AVells what had seen some good ends wid explosions.
Fer suddenness, he said, death he explosion was
nine point five ahead iv locomotives, ’n’ more reli-
able than liglitnin’. 'Twas much in favor wid th
faculty hi’ tli’ intellectual classes, said lie. Danny
give it a thrial, ’n’ when picked up lie was singed in
his internals, ’ll’ sufferin’ frim shocks. But thim
things was nothin’ t’ tli’ fury iv his graveyince agin
AVells. Sorra a fault' iv tli’ minin’ man was it at
all. ’Twas Danny himself forgot th’ essentials, lie
bought a bit iv a yar-rd iv fuze. One ind he put in
his mouth. Then he lit the other ind, ’n’ waited fer
tit Judgment. The fuze burnt hi' fizzled out inside
Moir, scaldin’ th’ membrane ’n’ other portions jv the
intellect most woful, but doin’ no further hurt he
reason iv Moir havin’ neglect th’ dynamite cap, which
same is th’ important function, I’m advised lie them
in authority. AA’ell, there’s Danny a hale man, for
he would try no more. He is scornful disposed.
Tis a neighborhood, he sez, wouldn’t have sense t’
kill a wood tick, sez he. But t’ he still would lie
decent in him. A man hasn’t th’ gumption t’ suicide
better stay alive, I’m thinkin.”
“J.Il.”: General Hamilton’s report on the
Commonwealth’s army was redolent of that
contempt which the “regular” invariably
feels for the mere militia. F’rinstance:—
The best assets of the Australian land forces are
to be found in the soldierlike spirit, the intelligence
and the wiry, active frames' of the rank and file.
Their limitations are those inherent in every militia,
even that of Switzerland. Practical experience and
habits of discipline are the produce of years of con-
tinuous service, and until a militia has been some
time in the field, it will always lack self-confidence
when faced by professional soldiers.
But docs a militia always lack self-confi-
dence when faced by professional soldiers?
The hasty levies of the French Directory
when they met the Duke of Brunswick’s
Prussian soldiers, supposed to be the most
perfectly trained in Europe, and under the
best and most experienced general, had
enough self-confidence to attack and beat
them. What are the German soldiers of
the present day with their two-years ser-
vice but militia? Also, the Boers showed
no shrinking hesitancy when up against the
cream of Britain’s regular army at the
beginning of the S’African war. Neither
did Washington’s painfully amateurish
troops when they clashed with the
THE GOOD LIES THAT TELL!
“ Why. mon, he's the worst liar in the club.”
“ Ah , but think of his stock of good ‘ Hes.'”
trained British legionaries. The best
sort of voluntarily-enlisted soldier with
12 years training behind him is, of
course, an invaluable man. But he is a
rare bird. In the mass, militia-men are
stiff enough propositions to tackle —more
especially when they are defending their
native land.
WHEN I CO DOWN TO WILLEGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I go down to Willego
(I always go in Spring),
The wattle’s like a yellow snow;
The scent’s in everything.
The vellow-breast, from every spray,
Salutes the pink-faced morn;
And all things living seem to say:
“The world again is born.”
When 1 go down to Will ego
(I always go alone)
Kadi hill and creek l seem to know ;
I almost know each stone.
The farmers on their carts drive past;
They wave their whips and say:
“You’ll have to travel dreadful fast
To reach the town to-day.”
When T go down to Willego
(And I go every year)
1 feel my heart now fast, now slow,
As Willego draws near.
For there’s a maid in Willego,
With eyes brown as a bee,
And these I see as down T go—
Brown eyes that wait for me.
VICTOR! \.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.


Drink that which is Pure!
Under a Guarantee of
O T c ° s Pure Lemon Squash
is warranted LEMON and SUGAR without added Water
THESE ARE NO IDLE WORDS, FOR
THE ABOVE AMOUNT IS PAYABLE IF THIS STATEMENT IS NOT CORRECT
All Doctors will tell you LEMON JUICE is a Beneficial, Health-giving Drink —
Therefore get the best. Why pay for added water when you can get
O.T. Company’s PURE LEMON SQUASH
Double the STRENGTH of ordinary Lemon Squashes
but not double the PRICE, because concentration saves
bottles, freight, cartage, etc.
2
other
good
Drinks
• •
O.T. (Add a little to all your Drinks)
MERRY CUP, the New (Sweet) Fruity Drink
Sole Makers:
O.T. LIMITED,
$
APPROVAL
>
$
*
Approved by
British Admiralty
Pure Drink Manufacturers,
AUSTRALIA and LONDON


hfd
QUALITY
The Rexophone KEYNOTE.
NEW
1914
MODELS.
REXOPHONE
Talking Machines
The mechanical excellence of these instruments has made them
famous as the machines which give lasting satisfaction. The lifelike
fidelity of the reproduction is amazing, and vocal and instrumental music
is repeated as if the actual performer was in your presence.
Rexophones range in price from the “Bute” at 37/6 (New Zea-
land, 50/-), the only quality machine sold at a low price, to the
“Richmond” at £l3/10/- (New Zealand £l6/15/-), an instrument
for the connoisseur.
Rexophone Records, 10-inch Double-sided, 2/6 each (New Zealand
3/6 each), are the best of the World’s Music made by Popular Artists.
They are Loud. Clear and Full in Tone, and wear longer than any other.
Ask for latest lists, including New Records by Stanley Kirkby, Billy
Williams, Jessie Broughton, The Cathedral Quartette, The Garde Repub-
licaine Band, Paris, the Orchestra Bose, Paris, etc.
Rexophones and Rexophone Records are sold everywhere in Australia
and New Zealand. Write for Complete Catalogue and address of nearest
agent.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Diamonds!
You Know Their Value.
How reliable an investment they make. Well,
we can offer you Diamond Rings, set with 5 Fine
Gems, at a price showing a 40% Saving on every-
day rates. This is brought about by means of a
special purchase of two Parcels of Diamonds offered
to our London House by a Cutter, who needed
cash. He probably takes it out of the small
Jeweller —but that’s no concern of yours, natur-
ally. The hard, sensible fact remains, you can
effect this substantial saving by promptly investing
in one of these H.H., 5-stone Diamond Rings.
£.5, £.(> lOs., £.7 lOs., £.B lOs., £lO
Just compare these prices with the actual Rings
and you have at once full proof of the wonderful
value they represent.
On receipt of a satisfactory reference we will
forward a selection to any address.
The Inky Way.
“Billy B.”: Australia’s family of pressmen lost a
notable member when J. G. Kalbfell died in Sydney.
Hobart, Melbourne and Sydney knew him intimately
and affectionately. For 20-odd years he was on the
staff of S. M. Herald, as ordinary reporter, Federal
Gallery hand, sub-editor, chief of staff and leader
in the State Gallery. Love of his fellows carried him
to extreme lengths to help them. No “cub or
stranger ever had to ask him for .assistance in a tight
place. Kalbfell’s eye was eternally on the . bewil-
dered pen, and his copv was made available m such
a manner that the other man seemed to be con-
ferring the favor. He was one of the staunch nghteis
for the formation of the Australian Journalists’ Asso-
ciation, not for any benefit it might bring to a press-
man of his standard, but for his weaker brother whose
caste was not recognised by the stout party behind
the pay-bag and the time-sheet. When the old
N.S.W. Institute of Journalists was making heavy
weather in its effort to reach the haven of the A.J.A.,
John Gustave Kalbfell was probably the calmest and
most sincere adviser on deck. He was 50 years of
age when the unrelenting Enemy knocked.
“Pot o’ Tea”: The Victorian, an illustrated
weekly, is the outcome of the campaign in Melbourne
to establish a second evening daily, to be called the
Mirror. That attempt failed because, among other
things, it was engineered by a Londoner unacquainted
with local conditions, and because the purchase of
an expensive city property was a chief feature of the
scheme. The really big obstacle to the creation of
the badly-needed second evening journal in Melbourne
is the matter of distribution. The rules of the News-
paper Trust are nearlv as stringent as those of _ the
White Lily Company of Launderers in San Francisco,
most of whose members are slaves to the guild in
Canton. If a Chow washerman opens a laundry too
near an existing one, a “high-binder” calls on him
and mildly suggests that he should shut his shop and
get a billet to boil short soup and kie-see-min in a
Chinese cookshop. If the Pong does _ not take the
tip, he is mostly strangled. Anyhow, his shop doesn t
open again. Things are nearly as bad in Melbourne.
It is almost impossible for a new paper or mag. to
get fair publicity. So the great handicap of the
forthcoming evening newspaper will be to get itself
into the hands of the public. The Victorian is a
neat threepenny paper which has _ started out _to
please everybody by printing a bit of everything
from coursing to corsets. Certainly it seems to
have been mostly written ■ thus far by _ new arrivals
who have acclimatised badly. There is an article,
for instance, by Henry Stead attacking the new
Australian defence system, and doubting Australians
ability to defend their own homes and women. Well,
perhaps they can’t. But they can try. The other
policy is to crawl in mortal terror into some hiding-
place. If the Victorian’s writer-doesn’t change his
advice we’ll have to begin calling him Mr. Under-
the-Bedstead.
* * * *
The Winner, an ambitious type of sporting
weekly, is threatened from the Melbourne Erald
office; the new plant, which was Mid down .to
receive the rival evening paper that didn t arrive,
will churn out the first number early m July.
* * *
“TTmfaan” • “0.K.” (B. 4/6/’l4) waxes sarcastic
at the intrusion of 0. Arthur Pearson inter the move-
Tlipr ,t in the Cold Country to provide Braille Utera
“for the blind. Be suggests that Pearson is seiz-
ing “an opportunity to work the press for his „lo i
fication, an d suspects him of booming J ll , 11 ), , ° '
knighthood. This is absurd. If any knighthood were
coming Pearson’s way he would have earned it wit 1
his Fresh Air Fund. Surely any title Mould be as
much open to him as it was to the man who f° r ™iny
years considered Pearson his greatest oppoiient AHred
Harms worth, now Lord Northcliffe? 1 eaison s in
terest in the matter is personal, foi he hi mself ha
been going blind for many years, and at present is
■is near blind as a man can be who is not living in
Vtvgian darkness. Pearson knows from bitter expen-
ssre.
asm in providing relief for that solitude.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: A London paper, published iiii the in-
-355» * ,3"8L'»w5
lentff ” ’FI’ 5 thol »ta\‘"re
himself to the circle. He said: Not now, but at
Cambridge House.* ’ ..
However, they got nothing out of him at Cambridge
House. The report continues: —
“Since then, said Sir Alfred, he had seen and con-
versed with Mr. Stead many times When he had
shown himself he had said very little, when
not appear he said a great deal. ( sneak to
sion of his last appearance lie said: I cannot speak t
you. But pursue the truth, pursue the truth, it is
all true.’ ” . ....
The feature of these revelations is their utter futility.
Those who are on board any big vessel quickly pass
over when it sinks in mid-ocean, so there Was no ne id
for Stead to come back to earth with that nc v .
The rest of the narrative might equally be tine or a
anaemic fabrication. If Stead was able to
General Turner how the Titanic sufferers felt, and
what he said to them, he should also be able
narrate something about the other world—somethi g
that would both interest human beings and comine
them as to his genuineness. Here w one 01 tn
greatest news-getters of his (lay in an envl c°'' ,
which the whole world is yearning to have describe
in detail. And he gives no more than any old
woman might dream after a heavy meal. Does Para-
dise ruin the journalistic sense?
**■ * *
“Max”: “L. J. Brient” (says B. R. Wise in his his-
torical study, “The Making of the Commonwealth”)
“was fighting the battle of provincialism with an
ability and vigor without parallel in the history of
Australian journalism.” You would think, wouldn’t
you, that a reputation of that size would at least
let a man’s name be remembered in the paper he
edited so brilliantly and helped so much to estab-
lish. Well, the Daily Telegraph feasted the other
day to welcome Disraeli Braham, the man who came
with a certificate of moral character and industrious
habits from the London Times ; and the name of
Brient was incidentally used during the general out-
pouring. Next day the Telegraph printed the name
as “Bryant.” What sort of an institution is it
which doesn’t know how to spell its father’s name?
I guess you know the vulgar word I’ve got in my
mind.
“Kuscobin”: They take advertising very seriously
in America. I picked up a Cosmopolitan the other
day, and, taking the tip from Gladstone, spent an
evening studying the advts. The first one illustrated
a chef, who looked as if he’d been on an absinthe
jag for a fortnight. Wildly waving a frying-pan, he
was asking: “What do you know of South African
ptarmigan?” The question was ridiculous, lie might
as well have asked me what I knew about Rimetal-
talism of the Soul, or what Massey’s policy had to do
with Advanced Democracy? However, it didn’t seem
to matter. The context explained that a thrilling
story in some other mag. would tell me all about Mrs.
Elfenstein’s Stolen Rug! I was next advised to
become a Doctor of Chiropractic. I had quite
decided to do so, the picture of a graduate holding
up a human backbone being irresistible ; but I found
Elbert Hubbard was the author of a free Book on
Chiropractic—and, well, a chap must draw the line
somewhere. After I’d been urged to become a
traffic expert, a nurse, a master mind, a photo-play
writer, an expert accountant, a chief draftsman, an
actor, an electrician, a signal engineer, a mechano-
therapist, a piano-tuner, a show-card writer, a lawyer,
a painter, a taxidermist, a language expert, all by
mail in my spare time (“full particulars free”), lan-
guage students would have become expert in one
lesson on hearing me. When I’d cooled down a bit,
and got into a more acceptive state of mind, I bought
a motor, built a home of Douglas fur lumber, took
tripe nuts, went to California, invested in a multi-
graph and an electric vibrator and a “Porosknit” pair
of underpants, a mushroom plant, a multipost, “Presi-
dent” suspenders, and a “Mountain Lady” footwarmer.
The only other thing lacking was “How to be a
Boarder by Mail,” but I’ll find it all explained in a
Yankee advt. directly.
* * * *
From London: After Premier Asquith, at the
annual dinner of the Newspaper Press Fund in
London, had made an admirable speech and appealed
for further financial resources, the hat was circulated
among the diners. When it came in it was found
to contain no less than £4OOO. But a quarter of
that big total, a cheque for £lOOO, came from one
purse, that of Lord Rothermere, the second of the
ennobled Ilarmsworths, the brother of Lord North-
cliffe. Asquith gave a history of the fund since its
foundation 50 years ago by a little group of Parlia-
mentary reporters, helped by Charles Dickens, a
former gallery man. During its half-century it has
distributed £BB,OOO in grants and pensions to neces-
sitous journalists or their families. Asquith inci-
dentally alluded to his early years of struggle at the
Bar, when, briefs being very scarce, he was glad to
earn enough to keep his head above water as “a
journalist in a humble sort of way—what is pro-
fessionally known as a freelance, or, in the phrase
of the scoffing outsider, a penny-a-liner.” The
Economist, the Spectator and other London weeklies
got most of the present Prime Minister’s stuff in
those far-back days.
E. B. Loughran, an old Melbourne pressman, has
found it possible to deal in daily-paper work, write
and publish poetry, and also take a hand noW and then
at chess. He has just been playing in the inter-State
match, Victoria v. New South Wales.
* * * *
“H.”: It is not a very amazing thing that “En-
sign and Mrs. Smith, of the Salvation Army, can-
celled their passages on the illfated Empress of Ire-
land because Mrs. Smith dreamt that she saw another
Titanic disaster.” Where there are enterprising space-
rate journalists something of the kind always does
occur. As a matter of coincidence, I had an article
written about a local man who had intended to take
a trip to England, by way of Canada, and who
would probably have gone bv the wrecked Em-
press but for a vivid vision which made him pause
and decide that staving in Sydney was safer than
travelling. I took the article round with blanks for
the name of someone who would undertake to be the
dreamer. There was no difficulty in the quest; but,
unfortunately, two men who had been willing to do
the dreaming told their dreams to one another, and
then they quarrelled, and each of them said that if
the other was credited with the dream he would
make trouble. So the vision was quietly drowned in
whisky. I felt that two men who had had a precisely
similar dream were too much to unload even on the
Evening Jabberwock.
The latest London novelty in the Inky Way is the
Newsboy, just started bv the big newspaper-distri-
buting firm of W. 11. Smith and Son. who control
most of the railway-station bookstalls and news
depots in the British Isles. In their business they
employ 6000-odd youngsters, and the Newsboy is for
them. For some years the firm has printed and
published the New'sbasket, intended primarily for
the adult employees of the firm. Both papers are
printed and circulated gratuitously by the firm
order to encourage “comradeship and mutual help.
* * * *
The Overseas Club at Christchurch (MX.) is so
waterlogged that it’s now proposed to hitch it on to
the local branches of the Navy League, the Royal
Colonial Institute and the Victoria League. Origin-
ally this Overseas Club was a cute attempt by the
London Daily Mail to boom the circulation of its
Overseas edition. For a humble bob anybody could
get a certificate of membership that was a mixture
of the Battle of Trafalgar, a Turner sunset and an
undertaker’s order form. Before members recovered
from the shock of their bobsrvorth, the Daily Mail s
dunning subscription letters arrived and proved the
inwardness of the scheme. “Seize’ was the true
spelling.
# * * *
“Heldess Reader”: Observe me gnashing my
umbrella! You know these odd reprint paragraphs
the evening paper fills un with —especially the Satui
dav early editions? Bright, snappy items, aren t they /
All about the old lady in Dorset (Eng ) who has
had a parrot for .85 vear=, and how the vicar at
Bubbleditch, Essex, hasn’t missed preaching the
evening sermon since the year of Queen lie
accession. But I’m going to give up reading them
Last Saturday I toiled through a gem which told
how service in some English church had been intei
rupterl last Good Friday by the creaking of a door.
No, there wasn’t any more to it! That was the com-
plete glittering treasure. Next Friday night 1 n
going to crowd out a few of the fill-uns they have
saved for Saturday by murdering the managing-
director of that paper and throwing the body at the
editor.
The London Mail (2/5/T4) hurled this
o-ihe at the rest of the Empire on the ap-
proach of the Day which Australian school-
children are compelled to celebrate .
Empire Day is coming, so your fla*
Cheer the colonies which don t pay a cent
tW shores Cheer Australians, who never miss an
occasion to quarrel with Englishmen, an who
lie low beneath the Union Jack because tnej
conquered by a people they detest who
they broke away—Tapan Cheer Canadians
&JS rZLTjW fir nav /o Cheer
of Englishmen from South Africa. .
What do they know of “Imperial sentiment
who only Bruce Smith know.
THE LADY-POET
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ladv-poet writes her verse,
She writes her verse and pants for fame,
But on it rests a dismal curse—
Her little songs are all the same!
What makes the lady-poet fizz,
And rhyme and rhyme with girlish grace,
Is this: She hates where’er she is
And wants the Dear Lost Other Place.
Or else there is a Brave Brown Man
Who perished in the Dear Grey Past;
Since lady-poets first began
That chap has made strong men say “IIlast!”
In neat backhand she writes it all
Full twenty times a year, and sends
The printed copies of her scrawl
To stodgy and adoring friends.
Like some strange fowl she picks the fluff
From books of travel, and with zest
Fakes up a mass of colored stuff
Which is her high and windy nest.
The lady-poet is too full
Of Heart and Dreams and Soul and Fate
Upon Griefs reins to take a pull,
Or keep a decent hat on straight.
She is a wild, brave, throbbing Heart
Who loves the bee, the “flow’r,” the bird,
And yearns enough to fill a cart,
And thinks that nothing is absurd.
N.S.W.
BLOW THE PAST.


, t v
Ur 3 -
I
—\ •
m
S
Ji
uw
1/
WMUMin,
'fa
75SK
■ss?
4N
\
n
\''W
\
////
VV£
s«
1
m
ill
mil
Ml
A*,
■
9
9m
Mi
I' 1
A\
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
THE BEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD FOR
COUGHS, COLDS & CROUP
/~\NE DOSE of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold; but the class
of case that HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure fairly Revels in is one
that the Ordinary Remedies have Failed to make any impression
upon. Herein lies the Real Value of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure —a
Medicine that can be given with Perfect Safety and Complete
Confidence to the Youngest Children and very Aged sufferers as it
does Not and has Never contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
We, the Manufacturers, absolutely Guarantee this.
Price 2/6 and 4/6
If you cannot obtain
HEARNE’S from your
local Chemist or Store,
send direct to—
W. G. Hearne
& Co. Ltd.,
GEELONG,
Victoria.
|SF
/
#
gives health and
strength to all
ages, from the
infant to the
aged.— Ready for
use, it requires
no cooking, and is
delicious to taste.
Oj all Chemists
and Stores.
SN
rjn HE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price Gd.
DINNEFORD’S
JJ
DINNEFORD'S
Magnesia
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD'S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
> T ;
A Sure Moustache=Orower.
The man who wishes to develop a handsome moustache should use
CAPILLARINE.
It is a splendid preparation, which develops the hair growth in double
time Never fails to give good results. Does not burn the skin or
cause irntation Apply at” night before retiring-its use cannot be
detected, and results are certain. *
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DA1 —10/6 post free.
T , c c. . Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
THe C - 1/6 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
There is no need for Australians to
US€
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or. if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will he sent post free.
h
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the i eeth.
COLORED POST-CARDS, by Harry .T.
Weston —“WEEKLY \\ ORRIES.’’ Set
of six, posted free. 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.


9ct. Gold Motor Brooch, set Pearls aiui
Amethyst, or Garnet, 25/-
15ct. («oi<l and rhitinoiil Brooch.
set Diamonds ;nd Tourmalines, or Aqua-
marines, £5/10/-
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Diamonds and
Garnets, £ 7/10/-
Oi.unonds and Peridot;,
ct. Gold Brooch, ‘
£3.
Beautiful Jewellery
Ml
\wv
WWW
iV'\
Oct. Gold Half-
round Plain
Buckle Brace-
let, *O/- 15ct.
Col 10/-
18ct. Gold,
;! Diamonds-',
£7/10/-
Oct. Cold Ear-
rings, set l’eurls
and Garnets, 20/-
30 -
35/-
£5
(Jent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, Non-mag-
netie, Full Jewelled, Patent Time Spring,
Compensation Balance, Dust-proof Oases,
so/-. Extra Jewelled, 35 /-, 40/-,
50/-, GO/- Patent Gold Cased, 84/-,
£5/5/- Solid Gold. £7/10/-,'
£B/10/-, £lO.
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Garnets ur
Amethysts, 22/6.
Quite moderately priced is what the
House of A. Saunders can always
offer you. In all the newest most
modern ideas too—delightfully choice
and attractive.
WRITE FOR OUR FREE CATALOG.
w
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Watch Bracelet. Kull Jewelled, T.evcr Movement.
£4/10/-, £5, £6, £O/10/-, £7.
1 8<*t . Gold,
set :> large
Diamonds,
£lO.
18ot. Gol<l
Gipsy Kins,
set, pure tljultle-
dit Diamomls,
£5/10/-
Oct. («ol<l lirooc.., «' 1 I’parls an 1
Helio Garnets, 20/-
WE PAY POSTAGE.
25|-
s <
sags
&
<$
/
Toady’s Solid Silvei-
H unti 11 s Key less
Watcll, 4 -plate, Kr.ll Jew-
(llfil. Patent Adjusted Balance,
25/- Higher grail s, 30/-,
35/-, 40/-, 50/- Sol ill
Hol,l. £3/10/-. £4.
Oct. (»old Pen-
dant, set Amethysts
or Gurnets, 20/-
18ct. Gold,
pure, (loiihle-c - !
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
s>('< mold. i».'
Initials Engraved,
20/-. ' let. Gold,
l>Ct.
Bracelet, set
Amet hvpp,
£ a/is/-
18ct. <Jol<l,
set 3 pure
double-cut Dia-
monds, i :io.
18ct. Cold
All Diamond
Cluster
Ring,
£7/10/-
Oct. Gold Brooch, sot Garnet®,
20/-
WE PAY POSTAGE.
20 1-
■s
i=9
\
25 -
Gent.’s Nickel Non-magnetic
Keyless Lever, Full Jewelled, with
Patent Balance, Non-magnetic Time
Spring, Dust and Waterproof Oases, 20/-
Higher Grades, 25/-, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS,
807-817 George Street (Opp. Railway Station), Sydney
Ml MW
FOUR
New Edison Records for June.
Included in the new records are 35 Regular. 2 Concert and 2 Grand Opera. The
last is an innovation, and the same price will he charged as for the Blue Amberol
Concert series.
The list includes a fine, varied collection of solos, duets, choruses and band selec-
tions, and you are advised to order from your Edison dealer as soon as possible.
Blue Amberol Grand
Opera Records.
28121 Pagenarie—Masked Ball.
Soprano Solo in German, orcli. acc.
Melitta Heim
28135 die faro Senza Euridice (I liave lost
mv Kurvdice) Orfeo ed Euridice.
Contralto Solo in Italian, orcli. acc.
Marie Deinn
Blue Amberol Concert
Records.
28180 O, Wert Thou in the C'auhl Blast.
Contralto Solo with ’cello obligato, piano
acc.
Kleanora de Cisneros and Paulo Gruppe
2SISI Coppelia—Entr'acte anil Waltz.
Arniand Vecsey and his orchestra
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
1501
1514
1G34
1757
ISO 7
1878
1924
1926
1964
1966
1979
1980
2000
2006
2007
2011
2013
Semiramitle Overture
American Standard Orchestra
The Mocking Bird—Fantasia.
Zvlophone, orch. acc. Charles UaaD
Kiss Me, My Honey, Kiss Me.
Conversational duet, orch. acc.
Jones and Murray
Little Boy Blue. „
Soprano, orch. acc. Eliz. Spencer
Teddy Bears’ Picnic.
American Symphony Orchestra
Jolly Fellows’ Waltz. Sousa’s Band
Crossing the Bar. Sacred, orch. acc.
Edison Mixed Quartet
Serenade. Violin, Violincello, Flute and
Harp Venetian Instrumental Quartet.
Sailor's Hornpipe Medley.
Violin, orch acc. D Almame
Khs Waltz.
Saxophone, orch. acc. llenton
Birds of the Forest—Gavotte.
Whistling, orch. acc. Gialdtm
Infanta March. , T ,
Banjo, orch. acc. Fred, Can Eps
Chimes of Normandy Airs, No. 1.
Orch. acc. Edison Light Opera Co.
Comic Epitaphs. Vaudeville Sketch.
Golden and Hughes
When the Old Folks were Voting Folks.
March Song, orch. a( c.
Bomain and Chorus
All Aboard for Blanket Bay.
Tenor and Baritone, orch. acc.
and IVheeler (Anthony and Harrison)
Good Night Waltz (for dancing).
N.Y. Military Band
2022 Curse of an Aching Heart.
Counter-tenor, orch. ucc. Oakland
2023 Sunshine and Hoses.
Tenor, orch. acc. Irving Gillette
2023 Is My Name Written There?
Sacred Duet, orch. acc. Young and
Wheeler (Anthony and Harrison)
2028 Let Me See Your Rainbow Smile.
Tenors, orch acc. Campbell and Gillette
2033 You’re My Girl.
Tenor, orch. acc. Yan Brunt
2038 March Lorraine. N.Y. Military Band
2042 Face to Face, Mezzo-soprano, orch acc.
Helen Clark
2043 Pullman Porters on Parade.
Coon Song, orch. acc. Meeker
2040 Old Oaken Bucket. Male Voices.
orch. acc. Knickerbocker Quartet
2048 Alexander’s Ragtime Band.
Coon Song, orch. acc. Murray
22535 Ninipo. Mixed Voices, inst. acc.
Toots Paka’s Hawaiians
23048 In the Shadows. Alhambra Orchestra
23072 The Moon has Raised Her Lamp Above.
. Tenor and Bass Duet, orch. acc.
Pike and Dawson
23131 Casse Noisette Suite, “Miniature Over-
ture” National Military Band
23132 I.ove, Could I Only Tell Thee.
Tenor, orch. acc. Compton
23133 All (he Ladies Fell in Love with Sandy.
Comic Song, orch. acc. Williams
23134 Come. Sing to Me.
Cornet, orc'<. acc. Leggett
23135 Sing Us a Song of Bonnie Scotland.
Baritone, orch. ace. Stanley lvirkby
(Assisted by Daisy Taylor.)
These goods carry the usual Edison endorsement—that is we guarantee them to be perfect
manufacture and not to have any mechanical defects. The above means that if any of
products should be found not perfect they should be returned either to your dealer or direct to
our
us.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364=372 Kent Street,
m
f ■
v
a
LAMPS
DRAWN TUNGSTEN WIRE
SAVE 15'- IN THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT
" • ;:•4: ' 6 • " * ° ' '•


It is to your Interest to use UP-TO-DATE
and INEXPENSIVE
Electric Motors
for driving all Kinds of machinery, and they are
handy, safe, reliable, serviceable and economical.
fdh
They can be started quickly by simply closing
a switch —can be fixed for working on the floor,
wall or ceiling —consist of few parts, and require
no skilled attention. The many advantages of the
ELECTRIC MOTOR DRIVE deserve your
serious attention.
Dp to 100-H.P. Motors kept in Stock.
You can always rely on your machine drive
when you use
GENERAL ELEGTRIC CO. (0.5. A.) ELECTRIC MOTORS.
We have an Illustrated Booklet which we shall be pleased to send to enquirers.
Write to any of these offices —
PERTH, W.A.—Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
MELBOURNE, VlC.—Australian Genera! Electric Co., Queen and Little Collins Streets.
BRISBANE, Q. Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd., Edward Street.
NEW ZEALAND—National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
0
Melbourne
e> Little Collins Sts
Cor.
21T Clarence
Street
S
dne
ueen
THE. ONLY STEAM ENGINE,
REALLY WORTH CONSIDERATION IS UNDOUBTEDLY
me MARSHALL
(ALL BRITISH
BUILT).
WE are assuming you are an Engine Buyer and require THE BEST!
MARSHALL’S have been manufacturing the WORLD’S BEST STEAM ENGINES for over 60 years!
fdh
MARSHALL’S have always stood EASILY FIRST in PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTORS, OIL TRACTORS and VERTICAL BOILERS.
MARSHALL’S ENGINES have been awarded over 500 Gold and Silver
Medals.
MARSHALL’S are the recognised standard by which all other makers are
gauged—ALL OVER THE UNIVERSE.
Give us an idea of your requirements, and we quote per return post. Our terms are exceptionally
liberal. - ■ •—lllustrated Catalogs FREE.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
WHERE THE BEST ENGINES ARE SOLD (NOT KEPT IN STOCK).


THREE CHEERS!!
Hai| 8 Hai| Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679,)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Dark Lager
HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents of
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind —the results of fermenting food in th«
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, fer-
mentation must be stopped or prevented
and the acid neutralised. For this purpose
physicians usually recommend getting a little
bisurated magnesia from the chemist and
taking half a teaspoonful in a little hot or
cold water immediately after eating. They
recommend bisurated magnesia because it is
pleasant to take, has no disagreeable after
eltects, and instantly stons fermentation
neutralises the acid and makes the sour
a ™ food bland, sweet and easily digested.
Ihe regular use of bisurated magnesia—be
sure you get the bisurated, as other kinds
of magnesia are of little value —is an abso-
lute guarantee of healthy, normal digestion
tor it overcomes and prevents that acid
condition which alone is the cause of
trouble.*
i
m
S lx KTr^Vr. I K HOWARD Watch.
In more than one hundred and fifty hitrhly-
factor IS6d occupations > n °ward Time is a ruling
WatCh ° r Send f ° r th ° lllus '
f | R d° UIJS ltd., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
Labor adopts questionable tactics in op-
posing the Fusion in pocket electorates
where the sitting member is of little cam-
paigning value—such as Henty (Vic.), re-
presented by the negligible Boyd. It lids
no hope of ousting Boyd, but a contest
means so many more Liberal votes polled
for the Senate. Cook’s party makes no such
mistake. It is letting Melbourne Ports go
by the board, which is very liable to mean
the loss of some thousands of votes for
Labor’s Senate candidates.
“THANK HEAVEN THAT'S PAID.”
The selection of the Rev. S. D. Yarring-
ton as Liberal candidate for Cook {N.S.W.).
affords another instance of the pertinacity l
of that extraordinary sky-pilot. The aver-
age salesman, whether his liiie be salvation
or soap, lias no primrose path to tread, and
only arrives at his goal after , a long fight.
Mr. Yarnngton, however, had .the good luck
to simultaneously discover an opium den
n . d a yearning reporter, and as a result of
this ‘double” achieved much notoriety. In-
cidentally, he didn’t break up the opium
den. In Catffi, M.H.R., he strikes an oppo-
who has also been much before the
public, but who lacks originality in his
methods. , His supporters must thiijk up
something to keep him up to the collar.
Yv hat about “Rats !”
Federal gpeal ter Johnson complains bit-
terly of the attack on his seat by Hector
Lamond, manager of The Worker news-
paper. He said, in his anger, that it was
unfair, as the Speaker was a non-partv
man. Presumably that is why, when the
Liberals got a majority, they threw Charles
McDonald out and put one of their own
hacks in his place.
The Westralian Labor Government plays
one poor game in angling for the cocky
vote. To prevent introduction of Irish blight
imported potatoes are inspected. This is
done in other States, too, only the other
States charge Gd. a ton for the service, while
Westralia demands 15s. The effect of this
heavy duty on Australian products is that
local growers, of often poor spuds, charge
practically what they like. Lands Minister
Hath has. promised to “look into the mat-
ter, but it is safe to say lie won’t find any-
thing amiss till after next election.
From an old Parliamentary hand:—
For reasons that are not all publicly stated, Watt’s
action in quitting State for Federal politics is
generally approved by his friends. Yet lie will
probably be a less happy man. The very inferior
calibre of the Legislative Assembly has made him
head and shoulders above all. In the National
Parliament (if he gets there) he will find a number
ot men his equals, and he will therefore inevitably feel
a degree of failure. He is a first-rate platform man,
perhaps up to Hughes, but he has given no evidence
of being a digger like Hughes. His forte is talk;
in a full-dress speech he is good, and better in
debate, where his readiness has paralysed all oppo-
sition in his limited sphere. The tip on all hands
was that Mackinnon would be Premier and the
party would have put him in; it was the Cabinet
that gave the bun to Peacock.
Though Watt’s Unimproved Values Rating
Act was spoilt by being made optional, it
might have been adopted in the metropolis
it certain people wanted it done. But they
don’t. Recently South Melbourne set about
acting on the new principle, and asked the
Government for a copy of the land tax valu-
ations for the district. The Act provides
that such copies may be supplied for a fee •'
hut it doesn’t specify the fee. The Govern-
ment coldly demanded £2Bo—for a, job that
i c l f)^ ler k would gladly undertake for £lO or
£-0. Gf course no business resulted, and it
looks as though the principle will be allowed-
t° go unused. S.ome people would cal 1 this
sort of thing a scheme to obtain political
credit by false pretences.
The new Harbors Board, of g. Aus is
getting busy. It took over all wharves and-
jetties.run by the Marine Board, or by muni-
cipalities when it started at the end of
March. On July lit relieves the railways
of everything of that kind which they con-
trol—and that means a good deal. Now the
bigger step of. clearing out all private owner-
ship is being prepared for resolutely, and
may with luck be finished by the end of the
year. . After that the question of- up-to-date
American methods of handling grain in bulk
will be taken up; but that’s only an aspira-
tion at present.
One of the. splendid, natural resources of-
tins country is oil shale. Tasmania, West-
ralia, Queensland and N. g. Wales all have
deposits of it those of N. g. Wales being the
largest, and finest known in the world. Yet
I here. is. no Australian oil industry worth
mentioning And,. apparently, there never
will be under existing conditions. But we
must have oil for our warships ; and as all
attempts, to produce a permanent supply of
it by I rivate Enterprise have failed, wliat is
wrong with , the Australian Naval Depart
ment following -the just-announced lead of
the. British Admiralty and making it a
national industry? 6
. The Argus adopts the “sporting” attitude
in rebuking those who criticise the G-G for
granting a double dissolution. gays the
Tory sheet:—
/ ra e r, , are n ?* “sP° rts >” but resemble rather the
Iwit 1 Jf rracl V rs onthe I ° s mg’ side who attack and
assault the umpire. Fair-minded men, even amongst
those who in politics incline to the Labor side will
S such Utterances! unfa T and : unsportsmanlike spirit'
In view of, the eminently fair and. sports-
manlike manner in which it has refrained,
frorn abusing the President of the Federal
Arbitration Court, however much it dis-
agreed with his decisions, the Argus is.
above all others, entitled, to reprimand
Labor people for throwing stones at the
umpire. ;
. Justice Street’s search for a Meat Trust
is going to be a - thorn in the 1 side' of the
Cook party at the elections. All the Judge'
can do is to let Cook know that a Meat
lrusti. exists ot that he • can- find no trace
ot lle Sports that there is : a loud
smell-of a-Trust, Cook will, be asked what 1
he intends: to do about it, and if lie pro-
poses to support an alteration in Ihe Con-
st! tutionto' give him power to deal with it.
It gtreet makes no report l before ! the elec-
tion, voters will regard the Commission as a
ruse to shelve the trouble of answering un-
pleasant Questions, land Cook will be suspected
“.working in the interests of the Trust.
It Street says' he can find no trace of a
trust well, that will merely mean other
rude remarks. ,In any case Cook is in for
trouble.
. Unless the plot goes wrong, Willie Watt
is to be appointed P.M.G. in succession to
Agar \\ ynne, who holds the job only until
alter the elections. Cook’s older followers
are expected to be pacified by the assurance
that \Y att is specially qualified for the new
billet through having once been P.M.G. in
Victoria.
THE TORY POLICY AGAIN.
The electors in weighing the claims of the two
parties will remember how greatly the expenses of
Government were, increased under Mr. Fisher.
S. M. HERALD.
THE PLIER : “It mightn't be up-to-date,
ma arm, but it's cheap—very cheap.”
An heroic effort is afoot, in Liberal
circles, to represent tlie dour and bitter
Joseph Cook as a gay, care-free flaneur in all
but the deeper affairs of politics. Sydney
Telegraph, in pursuance of this idea, pub-
lished the other morning a large photograph
inscribed “The Prime Minister’s Smile.” Ijt
displayed Cook with his mouth carefully
across his countenance.' A <;lay or so lateij.
Hughes was depicted showing the portrait
to Fisher, and mentioning gloomily that he
(Fisher) would have to learn to smile like
that. Incidentally, all the Liberal papers pro-
test earnestly that Cook, since he. achieved
the Prime Ministership, has been “far better
tempered.” Many go farther and insist that
he is now rsa humorous, and genial as can be.
The problem, as regards Liberalism, is: Can
Cook wear the robe of- George Reid ? He has
admittedly no chance of- carrying Deakin’s
discarded garment, but there is a vague hope
that the electors may. induced to swallow
him as a jester.
THE DOG THAT BIT HIM-.
After 12 months’ experience, the Health Depart-
ment claims to be in a position to state that there is
practically no danger of the present epidemic of
small-pox assuming a more virulent form. It is
not. the Asiatic type.— News item.
MELBOURNE CITIZEN:
“ That beast agaIN!
Why wasn't he shot,
instead of being,
purely muzzled!”
The long-winded tariff inquiry by the-
Interstate Commission becomes wearying.
Py the time the Commission has wanderedi
all r.ound Australia, and inquired into all
the industries in all the States, collated the
various results, and worked out the condi-
tions of each industry all over the Con-
tinent, those conditions will have changed
The Thing merely staves off the revision of
the Tariff; and meantime more and more
manufacturers are turning importers. Im-
porting is an insidious disease; it is a much
easier business to sit in an office and fill up
indent slips than to run a factory, and once
a manufacturer tries it he gets out of the
desire to run a mill of his own. Which is
bad for the wage-earners—and the wage-
earners will be sorry they didn’t have some-
thing to say about it when the inflow of
loan money stops, and the harvests are
poorer, and jobs are much more difficult to
get.
Westralian representation in the Federal
Parliament is not likely to change through
the double dissolution, unless Gregory, of
Dampier. is sent back into obscurity by a
Labor man. Bigjohn Forrest and Fowler
will have to run, but are almost sure
to win. On the other hand, all the Labor
seats, even the dreadful de Largie’s, are
counted quite safe.
If all goes well, Pie Commissioner Reid
is to have £lOOO a .year more. He gets
£BOOO now, with £2OOO for expenses. The
outlay on the office in 1908 was £3650; the
estimate now is £24,461, and that figure will
be largely exceeded presently. Offices are
being erected on land which cost £380,000;
the building will eat up £250.000. and the
decorating and furnishing another £25,000.
Interest on this lot, with maintenance, will
run away with £40,000 a year, and the staff
will have to be much increased. Meanwhile
the Agents-General, who were to he wiped
out, and would have been wiped out but for
State Frights, continue to pile up their ex-
penses, until the representation of this poor
little handful of people costs over £lOO.OOO
a. year, and will cost £150,000 very shortly.
Melbourne citizens lately- got some legal
information that few of them owned before.
A Northcote woman, whose house caught
lire, felt somewhat assured when the brigade
rushed up and pumped water on to the
flames. It didn’t save the house ; but, not-
withstanding that, learning that the place
wasn’t insured, it handed her a bill for
lls-j brigade expenses for two hours,
and the P.M. said it would clearly have to
be paid. Doubtless Parliament knew what
it was doing when it thus, to all intents,
made tire insurance compulsory, but it only
half did its work. If the State thus enforces
insurance it should at least provide a State
hire Insurance office to do it with.
STATE FRIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
cl! ie - ARnUS is enormously delighted at the idea
ot \\ line Watt being translated from the State to the
I'ederal held, despite the fact that not many weeks
paNt if was congratulating Victoria on possessin o '
so earnest and doughty a champion of State Rights.
J tweaks of his strong, dominating personality that
will inspire the electors with enthusiasm, and lead
them to victory in any great cause,” for which
reason he will be “gladly welcomed” into the Federal
arena. No thought now, mark you, for the poor State
bereft of its bulwark !
Oh, Willie, we will miss you, dear ;
You were a bulwark of the State.
From things the Tories held in fear
You’ve sheltered us this many a year—
And now what is to be our fate?
Who’ll ease the Socialistic gripe,
And warn us that the time’s not ripe?
It seems you’re going over to
Our deep, designing enemy,
And all bewildered is our view.
. We find the press applauding you
That yestereven seemed to see
The only hope the States had got
Invested in the giant Watt.
Those daily papers often told
0f Fed’ral schemes to crush the States—
To steal our banks, and stop the gold
We borrow gaily as of old,
And drive investors from our gates.
Now if of Watt we are bereft,
Alas! alack! what have we left?
The man of iron passes on,
' And nothing has Victdfia but
A Peacock to depend upon— 1
For ns the sun its last has shone.
1 State Frights is still, Watt’s riiouth is shut,
In dosing hint what risks we tun— ■
Great Heaven, something done!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
THE KILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a social evening given by the Camper down
(Vic.) council of the Caledonian Society the question
of the abolition of (lie kilt was the sole theme. Mr.
•I. Ross proposed “The. Kilts in Australia.’' He said
that at the next general election candidates would
not be asked by Scotsmen “Are you Liberal or
Labor?” but “Are you in favor of the kilts?” Upon
their reply would depend their election or rejection.
(Applause.) —Age.
The land with factions fierce is rent,
And Cook and Fisher roar and rave;
A noble Lib’ral' Government
Is in your hands to damn or save.
But care ye not whose blood is spilt—
Go, drive your dirk up to: the hilt
If any dare oppose the kilt.
Put Lib’ral polities ’away,
For Labor offers give no thanks.
What matters is that Scots wha hale
Shall; go with bare and freckled shanks.
Though rav’nous Trusts are being built
At no such barren matters tilt—
fight ye the battle of the kilt!:
“■Advance Australia” is no creed!
For goodly Caledonians sent.
We’re, out to show our soulful! need!
Of petticoated government,
And that is why to bagpipes’ lilt
We vote for candidates who wilt
Frost-bitten i» the Scottish kilt l!
VICTORIA.
SILAS' SNELL.


jjalo’S & .. >l<io
C
>:< >ro:
*L>3jfcl3d
D
a
a
o
a
o
Write
for
CateJop'
o
Vacuum Oil
Company
Pty. Ltd
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
New Zealand
m
• i
The
CALCOTT
LIGHT CAR
(“Australian Model ie Luxe”)
THE LIGHT CAR FOR AUSTRALIA.
Australian conditions demand certain modifications in Motor-Car design,
and that fact caused us to send a special representative to the “CALCOTT"
Factory in England. We submitted the first Car received by us to exhaustive
tests under these conditions, and we are pleased to say that it fulfilled ©sour
utmost expectations. * The “CALCOTT” is not only a car of beautiful design
and of the finest material and workmanship, but is emphatically The Car
for Australia.
READ THIS SPECIFICATION:
Horse Power —12. (R.A.C. rating, 11.3).
Number of Cylinders —Four.
Bore and Stroke —6s x 110 m.m.
Ignition —“ Bosch” Variable, Waterproof
Magneto.
Carburetter —“Zenith.”
Imbrication —Force-feed by gear-driven
Oil Pump.
Cooling— Thermo Syphon (Extra-large
Radiator).
Transmission —Bevel and Cardan Shaft
(strong differential).
Speeds —Three forward and one reverse.
Gate change.
Position of Gear Box —On sub-frame in
centre of Chassis.
Steering —Worm and Sector.
Petrol Tank —ln Scuttle Dash.
Clutch —Leather to Metal Cone.
Engine Control —Bracket carrying.' Con-
trol is stationary above steering:
wheel; a FOOT ACCELEHAT©)E in-
dependent of and in conjunction with
hand lever is also fitted.
Brakes —Foot and Hand, internal and
independent, expanding on rear
wheels.
Springs—Half elliptic.
Frame —Pressed Steel.
Wheels —Sankey’s Detachable (including
spare wheel with tyre and tube).
Tyres—Dunlop 700 xBO m.m.
Wheel Base —7ft. 6in.
Track —3ft. 9in.
Extreme width of Complete Car—4ft. 6in..
Extreme length of Complete Car —10ft.
3in.
Weight of Complete Car—lll«cwt.
Clearance—B4in.
The Body is beautifully finished, upholstered in best English leather, painted
buff and lined to match. Attached is a very efficient Cape Hoswi, a Screen
with single joint and brass finish. Valances also are fitted.
PRICE: Including Acetylene Head Lights and Generator; Electric Side and
Tail Lights; Accumulator; Hood ; Wind-screen Horn ; Spare' Wheel, Tyre
and Tube; Pump; Jack; Kit of Tools; Number Board,
We can give Immediate Delivery from Stock.
£290
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. Ll^
Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONE:
CITY 3528.
BOOKS ON MOTORING.
We Stock Useful and Practical
Books for Trade Workers.
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
TRACING TROUBLES, Motor-cycle Faults and their Remedies,
simply explained
THE AUTOMOBILE ENGINEER YEAR BOOK for 1914. (We
have a few copies of 1913 edition at 9d. each.)
AUTOCAR IMPERIAL YEAR BOOK 1913, formerly 35., now
offered at
THE MOTORIST’S INTERPRETER, Vocabulary of Terms relating
to Motors and Motoring’ in Three Languages, English, r rench,
Genian
THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF MOTORING, containing full definitions
of every term used in motoring, roadside troubles, electric
ignition, etc.
MOTOR BODIES AND CHASSIS, by H. J. Butler
THE MAKING OF A MOTOR-CAR, by Leechman
THE MAINTENANCE OF MOTOR-CARS, deals with the Upkeep
of Motor Vehicles, by Walford ..
THE MOTOR MECHANICS’ HANDBOOK, 1914. 260 pages. An
excellent book
THE BUSINESS MOTOR HANDBOOK, 1914.
and Steam Motor Vehicles
THE AUTO-CAR HANDBOOK, a Guide to the Motor-car. 300
pages and sectional drawing of Chassis, showing all the work-
ing parts
For drivers of Petrol
NOTES ON, AND DRAWINGS OF, A FOUR-CYLINDER PETROL
ENGINE, by H. J. Spooner . . •
EXPLANATORY DIAGRAM of Valve and Ignition Setting for a
Six-cylinder Petrol Engine
SYSTEMS OF ELECTRIC IGNITION, for Motor-cars, by Leechman.
180 pages. Well illustrated
MOTOR-CAR MECHANICS FOR BEGINNERS
GAS ENGINES AND LAUNCHES, their principles, types and man-
agement, by F. Iv. Grain
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS FOR AUTOMOBILE STUDENTS
AND MECHANICS, by Russell. A good book of self-mstruc-
tion • • • • • • • • ■ • • •
SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES, a practical treatise on the Theory,
Construction and Operation of all forms of Automobiles, by
James A. Homaus. 1912. 660 pages
BICYCLE AND MOTOR-CYCLE REPAIRING, by Long. 280 pages
Post
Free.
1/5
a/3.
1/6
1/4
9/6
8/-
1/5
3/2
2/-
1/11
2/-
2/8
1/4
2/«
1/4
6/8
5/3
10/6
6/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
hfd
Adds—Multiplies—Subtracts—Divides
in Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings,
or in Decimal Currency.
This is the only practical combination of
an Adding Machine and a Calculating
Machine made, and is to-day to the
bookkeeper what the typewriter is
to the correspondent.
You know that time costs you
money. Why waste it by allow-
ing two to eight hours to be
spent on work which can be
better done in one hour ?
■
plSiliii
m
FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.,
London, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
Australian Agents: Peacock Bros., 2i'-216 Queen St., Melbourne
Write
for our
Free Book,
“Rapid Mechanical
Calculation,” and
further information.
JERDAN’S LTD.
ALWAYS UP-TO-DATE IN ALL CINEMATOGRAPH SUPPLIES.
I
y
The
Kelvin Generating Sets
and
Silent Empire Bioscopes
UNAPPROACHABLE-
UNBEATABLE.
We can fit you out for a Permanent or
Travelling Show from
£4O
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
Why not Investigate the MONEY-MAKING ADVANTAGES of Moving Pictures?
Ours is no bubble reputation. We have proved by merit the wisdom of our
choice of PICTURE SHOWMEN’S REQUISITES.
CALL OR WRITE. WE ARE OUT TO PLEASE YOU.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


The-U.S. have lost another scalp from, their
trophy belt —the polo one. This goes to the
nation which has the wisdom to brace its
best energies at the right moment with the
right brand, the same being King George IY.
topnotcli whisky.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES &CO., PERTH, KALCOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
s* k. 1 %
:
A-HM
“Thoroughbred”
Hats for Men
The high-water mark of quality, style, com-
fort and good wear.
Sold everywhere at popular prices, in all
shapes, hard or soft felt. If unobtainable in
your district, write direct —
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LTD.,
Abbotsford, MELBOURNE.
HIGHEST PRAISE.
A WOLLONGONG STOREKEEPER
FINDS DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT
PILLS AFFORD RELIEF FROM
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION.
Being a sufferer from habitual constipa-
tion. writes Mr. S. Auckland, storekeeper,
of Wollongong, N.S.W., “I have found
nothing like Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
to afford me relief, in fact, other remedies
are useless in my case, and therefore I use
Indian Root Pills and can speak of them
most favorably as a reliable medicine. You
have my consent to use this testimony for
publication, as I personally recommend
them, believing in their efficacy."*
__ Missing Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
date Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries!
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MAUD EVELINE HIND would be
pleased to get into communication
with her brother, WILLIAM JAMES'
HIND, second son of the late Charles
George Hind (District Engineer, Civil Ser-
vice), North-West Province, India, he hav-
ing come from England to Australia some
34 years ago.
POCOCIv. —Will Leonard Pocock. for-
merly of Winchester, England, nephew
of Elizabeth Maria Nayler, deceased, please
communicate with the undersigned, as he may
hear of something to his advantage. Clever-
don & Fay, Solicitors, 95 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“0.K.”: A strange coincidence that J. O.
Inglis, the man who took the rich turf prizes with
Malua, should have died in the same week as Car-
bine. Although Malua was born five or six years lie-
fere Carbine, the two great gees are associated in
racing history. In fact, J. O. Inglis’s champion
lasted right into the Carbine period, for lie won
the V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle Race when
Carbine was a two-year-old in Maoriland. As a
handicap hero Malua h’ad a better all-round record
(ban the horse that presently overshadowed him.
All his wins were in Victoria'. He took the Newmarket
flutter, carrying Bst. 91b., in 1884, and the same year
he captured the Melbourne Cup with 9st. 91b. up. Two
years later lie won the Australian Cup (9st. 91b ),
giving 381 b. to Oxeiibam's game little mare Cerise
and Blue. Another two' years later ' lie bumped
list. 71b. into first place for the G. N. Hurdles as
aforesaid. A very versatile performer was Malua, and
bis finishing rush was the most masterful that old
turfites can remember. He was always so ' late ill
doing liis dash that the public liefer thought of him
as a great stayer until he had gone the three miles
journey over the hurdles. To the writer’s Wav ejf
thinking Malua was an easv second to ' Carbine—?a
better horse than Poseidon,' seeing that he could
bring off great handicap coups over six furlongs, two'
miles, two and a quarter and three miles, carrying a
heavy weight in each case. But because his owner saved
him for handicaps, Malua was not a “popular idol’’
like Carbine and Poseidon. Nor was lie strikingly in-
telligent—as horses go —in comparison with the
other two. Poseidon always seemed to nick his
ovvii way through a crowded field, and Carbine
(placed in every race he started for, bar once,
when he was lame) showed his understanding of
his business even before he got going. Old “Jack”
walking down the straight prior to the preliminary
canter was as cute as a circus horse. He invariably
turned his head from side to side glancing lazily
at the stand and .flat and sometimes stopping 10
look both ways as though lie were an actor sizing l
up the audience whilst acknowledging the applause.
The late .1. O. Inglis was a
founder of the V.A.T.G., which was intended
only for amateurs, but . became, as . professional
as the V.R.C. Its first meeting—in 1876
was at the Ballarat Dowling Horest course ; the club
lias an oil painting-' of the. Gold . Cun .Steeplechase
run at that first meeting. Inglis was in his time
the best Victorian all-round, amateur rider, good in
steeple, hurdle and flat, although he might have
been separately beaten by Glasscock' or Cox for the
steeple and Brewer for the hurdle. He l was. the
only owner who ever rode his own horse to victory
1 '• the V.R.C,. Grand National Hurdle. ’ This was
on Malua. The horse had won a Melbourne Cup.
Australian Cup and Newmarket- Handicap. • - He
bought Don -Tuan from Joe Thompson before he woti
the 1873 Cup, but Thompson had obtained the right
to race him. Afterwards Joe bought the horse back,
and it unluckily died. Inglis bred -Darnwell, winner
of the Melbourne Quo, Ingliston, winner of the
Caulfield Cup, and other good ones.- On his favorite
horse, Nimbook, lie negotiated two thousand fences
in the hunting field, with onlv one fall—and was
killed at last through being thrown out of a
He was for a time .judge of the V.R.C., hut gave
that up for the billet of starter to the V.R.C. arid
A .A.T.G., a iob more to his liking, and perhaps
harder to fill.
Went out suddenly, as the result of an
accident at Christchurch, Charles Kerr, one of the
1 >est known and most successful trainers and drivers
of trotters in Maoriland. He started in the game as
a jockey, back m 1878, and was actively connected
with the sport to the finish. In conjunction with
brother Walter he owned the famous Wildwood,
whose progeny has been much to the front in recent
years.
Ike Earnshaw. horse owner and trainer,
left £29,840 behind him.
The folk who are always on the; look-out
for trouble got a toothful of material this week
when the weights for- Melbourne, and Caulfield Cups
and Epsom and Metropolitan Handicaps were., thrown
to the five winds of Australia. Altogether 897 beasts
were burdened in the four big events, and prophets,
the weak-minded, those who need exercise and others
who suffer from insomnia will have' some sort of
excuse for increasing the gas-bill. And, like a pall
over all hangs the bag of Isaac McShortodds, pro-
Dared to reap the spoil of the fools who dream and
see visions.
. News from sculler I’addon is that he
arrived in England in excellent condition, and only
61b over his rowing weight. Barry entertained his
rival at lunch, and consented to row in August, pro-
bably- the 24th. After the race he will come to Aus-
tralia, probably in Faddon’s company.
Cricketer A. G. Steel died last week, aged
66. The star of Cambridge University team, lie
played against the Australians. in several Test
matches, and was one of the few dashing English
amateur batsmen of his time who could bowl rather
better than he batted. After his cricket days he nut
in good work as a barrister arid held the billet of
Recorder of Oldham, where he died. As a young
fellow of 24 he came to Australia with Ivo Bligh’s
Oxford University won an interesting
event at Philadelphia (U.S.A.) lately—a relav race,
with four men each running a mile. All the
American universities were competing. But Oxford
ought to win most things nowadays, with the help
of picked Rhodes athletes from all over the world
Its four was made up of Spreule, from Melbourne-
I fiber, from the U.S.A. ; Jackson, the English cham-
pion; and another with the dubious name of Gans-
sen.
Motorists are talking of a combined effort
Set a proper road made through the Coorong
(South Aus.). This “desert ’ stretches so far across
any direct route from Melbourne to Adelaide that it
cannot well be dodged bv arvbody going for a speed
trial, and its sandheaps are liable to stick-up anv car
or cycle whatever. If one definite road were made,
and kept clear —it is the. keeping clear that is going
to be the trouble-- the rest; could be left. As it is,
each traveller picks his own route. There is, in fact,
no Adelaide-to-Melbourne highway at all. For a civil-
ised country Australia has been curiously casual in
the matter of highway’s between its capitals. It has
just made railways, and let the other thing slide.
Racing in Adelaide is up against an odd
dilemma. Every form of betting, except by totalisa-
tor, is absolutely illegal in S. Aus. ; and the machine
is allowed only on a racecourse. That is all right.
If a man never bets on a race that he doesn’t witness
he is not likely to do much harm. The trouble is
that the tote only issues pound tickets, in the ten-bob
(or members’) section of the course; and five-shilling
tickets in the half-crown section. The thousands on
the I< lat pay a shilling admission at Morphettville,
and get in free at Victoria Park, the latter being
P al 't of the city park lands, leased to the Adelaide
Racing Club on this condition. But they can’t
bet! And, of course, they do. The man who wants
to put a shilling on a horse could only do it, legally,
by paying half a crown to go into the stand. So,
miluially, he entrusts it to an illegal, and therefore
furtive, bookmaker, who, even if he is quite honest,
is liable to be carried off by the Law just as the
race fe won, There was something very like a riot
at \ ictoria Park on Birthday Cup day, when a “free”
crowd of 15,000 saw its stakeholders arrested one
after another for doing just what the well-to-do
people across, the .track were doing in a slightly
different form. It seems clean contrary to demo-
cratic ideas. But a shilling tote on the flat, besides
being expensive to work, would require an amending
Act, The leading sportsmen don’t know what awk-
ward things might happen if Parliament got reviewing
the whole position, and they are content to let things
run on as at present. And the Labor member, who
should in theory be up in arms against the injustice,
is, in S.A., apt to be a Methodist, who certainly
won't vote to make gambling feasier. So the bob-
investor just goes on breaking the law. Imagine the
•Vtll there would be if the worker could not legally
buy a. glass of beer without first paying half a crown
for admission to the pub! Vet, logically, there seems
to be no difference.
The Stadium, audience differs with referee
Harold Baker re O'Neill v. Welling. Arthur
Scott enjoys the joke.
The Defence Department in Adelaide is
working out an idea for making itself more popular
by not'clashing with sport on Saturday afternoons]
It 'hopes to get in all its Saturday drilling on one
fixed afternoon each month, leaving the cadets free on
the others. In return, the Football League has pro-
mised—-and the others are certain to fall in line —to
leave that one afternoon blank next year in arranging
their lists. It sounds a thoroughly workman-like
scheme, which should suit both parties and remove
a lot of dissatisfaction felt even by lads who have
not grumbled. Incidentally, the army plans to run
an athletic department of its own, affiliated with the
A.A.A.
Frederic Lassetter, son of the big Sydney
shop-keeping Colonel, : is at Christ Church, Oxford,
where he has just won the. House Sculls. He was,
however, beaten in the University Sculls, though he
gave the winner a good race. ' Artlett, a famous
mentor, coached him, and thinks he is going to do
great things.
Last Saturday’s racing at Caulfield was
expected to throw some light on the Grand National
meeting. It certainly suggested that some of the
fancied candidates for the G. , N. Hurdle are not
sufficiently smart at the game to hold their own with
the well-bred Beccasine, a Uyear-old son of Bobadil
in the Manifold stable. Beccasiije was beaten by old
Flash Jack, but he looks very dangerous for the
3-mile hurdle at Flemington, all the same. The
steeplechase looked a good thing for the much-talked-
of Anaerion if he could beat United Kingdom, but
the latter failed under his 12st., and Anaerion could
only run second to Icon, who will meet him on
somewhat better terms in the G. N. Steeple a fort-
night hence. The Caulfield running pointed to these
two as likely to have a lot to say in the big event
They were in the first flight from start to finish, and
both will have youth in their favor when battling
with the old stagers at Flemington.
- While thousands. of- barrackers were howl-
ing like demons at Sydney football and other side-
lights on Saturday, riflemen concluded the last round
of the season at’Randwick range. Thirty clubs, com-
prising just under 250 riflemen, were on the mounds
qualifying for the honor-roll of-patriotic Australians.
Jhe star efforts of the day were double possibles by
C. 11. Jewell (at ,700yds.) and E. Garnett (at 200vds.
and 300yds.), but the accuracy of. the plug'ging
generally was something to make the heart rejoice.
Sydney Baseball pushed its second round
off on Saturday with a vim which threatens to knock
life into the pastime. All roads led .to Petersham
Oval, where the double bill was thrown to barrackers
and the leather-lunged howled. Leichhardt’s clash
With Paddington was the titbit of the day, out of
which Leichhardt crept in a bedraggled state—four
runs to three. The city brethren made a wretched
fielding blunder in Leichhardt’s fourth innings, from
which the suburbanites reaped three runs, and that
advantage gave them the right to whoop. Petersham
hadn't .much difficulty with 'Varsity, 13 runs to four;
while Waverley bashed Lane Cove to the music of 10
runs to five. For the other match, several Burwood
players decided not to soil their shoes, so Mosman-
N • Sydney pocketed their first win—a forfeit. At
the end of the day’s mud-larking, Leichhardt and
\\avorley led with seven wins; Petersham has six,
Paddington, - \ arsity and Burwood three each, while
Mosman-N. Sydney hold up the tail with one win.
The milk in the cocoanut regarding the
Australian XI for S’Africa is the assertion of the
Board of Control’s authority in Australian cricket
affairs. A while ago it was alleged that “the Players”
would again kick up a fuss ; but to their credit “the
Players’ ” row didn’t get out of its shell. Hill,
Trumpet - and Ransford declined the trip, for business
reasons, and thus any chance of . a noise was reduced
almost to a minimum. The Board went the full hog
with its authority, choosing Warwick Armstrong and
Warren Bardslev as captain and vice-captain respect-
ively, and C. Campbell will be manager. The team
looks like embarking on a sound business as well as
a playing venture; and, with the knowledge that
S Africa has guaranteed £2OO per man, there is
nothing but the value of the guarantee for the team
to worry about.
There are worse places than Centralia
to wander in. Reichenbach reports that, while on his
record-breaking trip, for 1200 miles of the journey it
did not cost him one penny to live. Food and all
manner of hospitality were waiting for him right
along- the line. But he found he could ride best on
damper, corned beef and black tea, and so as far as
possible lie stuck to that menu.
# * *
\V lien the English Rugby League team
taced Queensland at Brisbane on Saturday it found
about twelve thousand looking on. The game started
very fast, and some fine tackling was shown.
But from the kick-off the visitors overmatched
the locals, and had they been content to
play the game properly would have won by a larger
margin than they did. They were penalised twice in
the first 10 minutes, and Queensland scored on both
occasions. Once again before half-time the English
offended, and Bolewski kicked his third pehalty. The
English captain, Wagstaff, proved himself to be a man
ot grit and skill, and at half-time England had 14
points to Queensland’s six. The second half started
with a terrific burst of speed, and strenuous play was
sustained for a full 15 minutes, when Henry Bolewski
kicked his fourth penalty. That was Queensland’s last
score, and England won bv 22 to eight.
* *. * *
.English Northern Union team being
still in Brisbane, the Rugby League's Sydney competir
ti°n proceeded. Only one alteration was made in the
C °i^ pe^1 I t l on llst ’ Nol;th s y dne y. which had been level
with Glebe on points, slipped and fell two points be-
hind. Otherwise things are as they were. Eastern
Suburbs,; although the premier team, has failed to get
Wht i°o P th f e dist and has only 10 points to
feoutn s 12. Newtown shares the second line with the
premier team. Glebe has eight, North Svdney six,
Balmain five, Western Suburbs four, and Annandale,
the baby a lonesome one. Annandale has deserved
better luck. Eastern Suburbs on Saturday, came down
on Balmain, ami after much stir and hard work man-
aged to scramble out by eight to two —a small margin
at League Rugby, and an indication of how the Bal-
mainiacs are coming along. With only 13 minutes to
go the score was two all, and 8000 people looked on
e!' aZ6d Wl . th ex «tement. While time ran out
yL k JTTT . team mana S ed to score a couple
hi , trles ’~b . u t failed to convert either. South Sydney
had anything but an easy job with Annandale, which
struggled very gamely, and the leading team in the
Competition scrambled out with the narrow margin of
ffestPr/p 5 el m t- ? orth . Sydney journeyed to con-
gested Eiskineyille, where it ..found Newtown waiting.
North wished it had stayed at home, and Newtown
triumphed with 12 points to seven. It was nothing
to howl about, but it was enough. Glebe stainoed
IVestern* Suburbs flat by 23 points to two.
The Rugby Union Competition was sus-
pended in Sydney on account of the 100th inter-
state match between N.S.W. and Queensland. In
°, f * ts classic nature the fixture, drew on,y
about 4000 people to the University Oval The
STound \vas_ wet and muddy and the day bleak, and
the University Oval is a dreary -spot on. a bleak dav.
Queensland won, by 16- to 14,/ At one stage the
Noithein team by 16 to • three. At five minutes
to go N.S.W. was only five behind. Suttor scored
a. try, but_ Tasker, the five-eighth, missed the shot
at goal, apcl the chance of a dyaw faded out. Each
side scored four tries, but the N.S.W. boot-artillery
'^ S x? or^ ns ' b ? d l- V- N.S.W. was the attacking partv
all the tune, but the Queensland defence was very
solid. Had / the Northern team followed up manv
of the repulses inflicted on the N.S.W. baelr division
the game would have been a rout and a disaster ;
but very often the Bananalanders were content to
let the Cornstalks renew the attack.
In the Soccer division Sydney made a
ferocious attack on Newtown. It started with
a bound, and for about five minutes was the liveliest
hoofing in the Ma capital; then Svdney, with a
brilliant run through, landed the leather in the net
Flushed with triumph it tried to repeat the perform-
ance, but Newtown had pulled itself together and
the guardians of the goal were very wary. Just
about tins time the Sydney boiler apparently burst,
and the ferocity- of the start died down somewhat.
Newtown’s combination improved out of sight and
assumed the offensive, and at the second effort scored.
That made the game one all and it ended that way.
Canterbury came down to Epping and there scared
the life out of Balmain, but Balmain managed to
win with three to two. Granville, the unbeaten
club, made a worse than holy show of Glebe bv
five goals to nil—which is a dreadful beating at
Soccer. Annandale also rubbed it into Northern
Suburbs by three goals to one.
Saturday’s Vic. hoofball changed the pro-
spects of several clubs. ’Wood visited Carlton and
provided a., courteous but uninteresting game, ruined
by the perpetual blowing of the umpire’s whistle.
The chief trouble with League umpiring at present
is its amazing variety. One man will allow the
players to run with the ball as long as they can
provided they bounce it regularly and are not held
by an opponent; another insists on players dropping
the leather instantly an opponent touches them ami
penalises them when they don’t. This lack of uni-
formity should be corrected by an umpires’ confer-
ence. Carlton scored 52 points to ’Wood’s 45. On
tlie little Richmond ground the locals tackled St.
Kilda, and, in a well-controlled yet fast and open
game, held their own throughout, and won by two
points: after five concluding minutes of hysterical
excitement, in which the Saints bombarded Rich-
mond's goal and had two “possible” shots, but failed
to do anything with them. The hefty men of Geelong,
almost invincible on their own ground, came to town
and collided with Essendon, but found themselves out-
played at the finish, having then 41 points to ’Don’s
07. ’Roy downed Melbourne by 83 points to 63, and
South added another victory at the Students’ expense
—7O points to 55. The same Students hav'e of late
been spoken to firmly, and the remarks seem to have
been digested, for they were actualU' two points to
the good at lemon-time; but in the last quarter their
lack of training found them out, and they could
add but one goal while South put on three goals five
behinds.
* * * »
The most considerable Ass. game was at
North, where the locals collided with Brunswick and
tailed to get a grip of things till the game was
almost lost. When five minutes of the last quarter
had gone ’Wick boasted 49 points to North’s 33, and
the Brickies felt good. But their joy was brief. In
the last 20 minutes North doubled its score, while
’Wick added one paltry goal, and ran out on ton
with 68 points to 56. It was a finish that set the
Blue-and-White barrackers whooping. Eootscray met
Brighton, and collected 86 points to 32 ; P’ran gath-
ered together 111 points to ’Cote’s 43, and ’Town
woke up and outed Essendon bv 70 points to 60.
Also, Hawthorn arose and romped over Port (89
points to 75), which feat so disturbed the ill-regu-
luted barrackers from the riverside that they rushed
the ground and pounded the umpire. Why doesn’t the !
Law take notice? Surely it is strong’ enough to
grapple with a push of lop-sided larrikins?
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co. lias received a
cable to the effect that the famous Isle, of Man
Tourist Trophy Race has fallen to a Sunbeam ear,
driven by the equally famous chauffeur, Lee-Guinness,
lleicken, on a Minerva, was second, and Moton on
another Minerva, third. All three used Dunlops.
Lee-G. ran over the 600 miles in lOhr. 37min. 49sec.,
which is equal, loughly, to 56 miles an hour,
though the course is far from an ideal one for speed.
Ot the 24 competing cars 14 were English and the
rest German, French, Belgian and Switzerland. This
is the first, time the race has been held for six years,
the British Automobile Club having, in 1908, decided
to cut out all road racing for motor-cars. But it has
been found that these tests .stimulate makers. Hence
the revival.
* * * *
The well-remembered gale of popular dis-
approval that blew Arthur Scott out of the Stadium
refereeship after the Eddie McGoortv-Jeff Smith con-
test was a gentle zephyr compared with the awful
blizzard that descended on the head of Harald
Baker on Saturday night when he gave Welling the
decision over Sapper O’Neill. It was terrific. Also'
it was disgraceful. The assembled “sports” beat
the iron walls of the Stadium with their
heels till it sounded like a naval doik-
fown Wol^lnK , at hl « h pressure. They booted
till their throats gave way, and it sounded as though
the building were surrounded by 10,000,000 wolves,
lhey hurled rocks through the windows of the
Stadium offices, and dingoes who throw rocks into
offices where girls are working are onlv fit to be
boiled down tor manure.
Although O’Neill and Welling had weighed exactly
9st. Trip, at 2 o clock on Saturday afternoon, Welling
JonKed ileavior and had the advantage in the reach.
Altogether his style of fighting is far from attractive,
and compared with the clean, crisp boxing of O’Neill
it looked horrible. It was that which made the
crowd so unanimously hostile to him. He seemed
to lead with his left and cross with his head. O’Neill
had narrow escapes m every round, and once he got
badly butted. As a matter of sober fact, it was
merely \\ elling s ugly way of avoiding counters : but
it looks so horribly like the other thing that Welling
is exhorted to cut it right out. O’Neill gave a fine
display of skill, and some of his footwork and duck-
V:^ W 6/; e reall y. superb. But he had not after the
10th the physical strength to keep his rushing
opponent off. He lacked hitting power. Welling
would attack, and for a time the Sapper would keep
V lm and evade him, but in the end the Yankee
invariably got him and wiped off the margin of
points O Neill had piled up at the beginning of the
round. Summed-up, it amounts to this: Welling
iS. ck Sr a .?? ve !'T often was repulsed. But after the
10th O Neill quite failed to follow up the repulses ?
In the 13th O’Neill went down for one. He got up
and steadied the Yankee with a right hook as he
came m to finish things. But Welling came again
and the gong saved the fading Irishman from a very
bad place. It looked like the beginning of the end
and although O’Neill showed great skill right on to-
the finish he was, to this writer’s mind, fighting to
see it out He never had Welling threatened, while-
he himself was in danger all the time. Welling was
a leaping tiger, and although he got knocked about
he clawed his man badly. In the 19th round there
was a huge demonstration in O’Neill’s favor Thou-
sands repeated the shout, “Sap, Sap, Sap Sap!” It
was obvious that a decision against “Sap” meant a
demonstration. But Harald Baker never hesitated -
walking over quickly, he placed his hand on Well-
V I his writer would far sooner have seen
O Jveill get the verdict had it been possible • for
Yelling is a crude fighter—he isn’t a boxer at all
compared with the other man. But the decision was i
the only possible one. Baker knew perfectly well
when he gave it that he was going to strike a hostile
demonstration. But it is doubtful if Satan himself
bad any idea what a * demonstration it would be.


BUILD UP YOUR STRENGTH
AND IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH
It is natural for you to be healthy—but
you cannot retain your natural healthy state
unless you aid Nature by keeping your system
thoroughly toned up.
In your daily habits there are certain
groups of internal muscles which you scarcely
ever use. Nature intended you to use them
or they would not be there.
Unless you DO use them they’ll wither
and become useless. They then cannot per-
form their natural functions—you will then
have a chronic feeling of weariness and lack
of energy and ambition.
Imagine how much better for you it is to have
your weak spots strengthened; especially
when you can so easily and pleasantlv do it
by means of my HEALTH EXERCISES
which I TEACH BV POST.
Read this letter:—
“I feel splendid, never felt better in
all my life. Thanking you for the good
your Course has done me.”
CAV.E., Maryland, N.S.W.
I’ve just added a number of new exercises
to my Courses —Exercises which were dis-
cussed and demonstrated during my confer-
ences early this year with MAX MULLER,
the celebrated Danish Physical Culturist;
with the GREAT EUGENE SANDOW, and
with BERNARR McEADDION, the leading
American exponent of Physical Culture.
These new exercises are the latest and
best work of modern progressive specialists
in development of body, and ridding it of
the ills brought about by neglect. They’ve been
thoroughly tested in Europe arid America and
are getting wonderful results. Why not share
in these benefits, also?
K
You ought to write, for further information anil fees, for my POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH
EXERCISES. A 48-page interesting booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-
CULTURE,” will be sent you. Write now, sending three penny stamps for postage. f
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
340 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Cigarette
Smokers
who appreciate a good
smoke should try my
Three C’s
Hand-Made
Cigarettes
You get all the vdelieat'e
fragrance of the tobacdo .j
in these Cigarettes.
... 1 .
No. 1, Russian.
A Cigarette that you
will thoroughly en- <
joy, jib. Box, 45.,
as illustrated.
No. 2, Virginia.
Plain, gold or cork-
tipped, as illustrated,
Jib. Box, 4s.
No. 3, Egyptian.
Smokes mild and
sweet, Jib. Box,
4s. 6d., as illus-
trated.
No. 4, Turkish.
Oval or round, Jib.
Box, 4s. 6d. Oval
as illustrated.
POSTAGE EXTRA.
Send for a ft;ee copy
of my Catalog of .Cigar-
ettes, Cigars, etc.
A. M. SOLOMON,
Cigar Expert,
173 Pitt St., Sydney
Actual Sizes.
hfd
ivo. i.
[g
I
M
•/
h
fdh
fd
No. 3.
No. 4.
“SMELL” again
in the
Petrol Consumption Test
held on 30 5 ’l4 from
Sydney to Katoomba.
FIRST FOUR PLACES
secured on
your teeth should look
better than they do
iky
Calvert's
aftoth R>wder
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C. Calvert &■ Co. , Manchester, Eng.
You Enjoy that Satisfaction—Always.
hfd
If you take a pride in your personal appear-
ance,- you know there’s a satisfaction in
feeling that yeur shoes are absolutely cor-
rect, stylish, and perfect fitting. You enjoy
this satisfaction always in Rigney Shoes.
The illustration shows -a Tan Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops,
“Non-Tread-Over” Brand.
Price 32/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
All Athletes
Use
“PARROT
BRAND"
BOSISTO'S
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
■
lltlps*
mmm
:: %
SI
■
i
- v
■ VV<
V \
■-... ■'••
>■
'/r->
r- •
jmmfe. J
•: ,-•■
■A ® U
•'• /
Vi
: 5
■ 5
mk
, ■". .. ■ ' ■.
iv ' .■*.&■ . . >« * : - .. * -,c- * ...
«
'3f J 'V,
lll mimwv i, i ateaiiiaiK,.
Bosisto's “ Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
tHe Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
.Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds* Bronchitis
I
RUGS
For Land and Sea
“THE BUSHMAN”—IB/6
In rubber of. the finest
quality—plain or fancy
lined—waterproof practi-
cally indestructible —warm
without being excessively
weighty—fitted with nHcel-
plated Strap-ring. Size,
60in. x 50in. (approx).
“The Bushman” is the rug
that stands alone for all-
round usefulness “Outback.”
“The Traveller,” —22/6
All wool —full winter weight
• —heavy fringing-—in a vari-
ety of tasteful tartan and
fancy designs—-full size—
“ The Traveller” is a vug
that will more than, satisfy
the requirements of the most
hard-bitten rover.
POST YOUR ORDER
for either of these rugs (or
both) and you’ll receive them
by return —freight paid.
Lincoln,Stuart
8 Co. Pty. Ltd.,
“MaiUOrder Outfitters,”
Flinders St., Melbourne.


Business Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
Deßeszke
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
For ECZEMA, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamn .
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
Sole IVhol'sale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney.
Any Dentist will tell You
that unless your artificial teeth are kept
perfectly clean they will destroy your
remaining natural teeth.
DENA'O
Prepared from a leading dentist’s pre-
scription ; it will make your teeth com-
fortable, and free them from all germs
and injurious deposits. [3
Price: 1/6 &. 2/G post free.
Send One Penny Stamp Jor Sample ,
J- M. Wilkes 8 Co., Aiphington, Melb., Vic.
>»POLiN
The Universal
Paint.
Ripolin Paint goes farther,
lasts longer, and gives a
better finish than any
other Paint.
Ripolin Paint is ready
mixed for use, and can
be obtained in 100 shades.
Please note the only Paint
like Ripolin is Ripolin;
do not be put off with a
substitute.
RIPOLIN, LTD.
35, Minories,
London, England.
AGENTS:
D. A. CORMACK,
Moorfoot Buildings,
5 Parker Street, i
V SYDNEY. /
RIPOUN
_ PAINT
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
KOLDOS
will cure that
CATARRH.
Post Free to any address,
THE ROLDOS AGENCY,
2|6
18 Queensland Offices, Bridge Street, Sydney
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
“A Secret that Never Fails to
Grow Hair.”
TOILET
DISTRESSING lack of hair will mar
the most beautiful face, and after all
there is really no need to have poor or im-
poverished hair if a few common-sense rules
are observed. First of all, hair tonics must
be freshly made in order to obtain the best
results, and thousands of women, and men,
too, are now making up their own lotions
with most satisfactory results. For this
purpose they obtain from tfce chemist's one
ounce of boranium and mix this
with 1-pint of bay rum, quite a
simple formula, and according to
all accounts remarkably effec-
tive. This simple, home-made
lotion quickly removes all dan-
druff, and creates a growth of
new, healthy hair which will
gladden the heart of any woman.
One i word in conclusion. Do
not experiment with your hair,
long suffering though it may he.
Nature will surely revolt if you
continue to subject the hair and
scalp to all kinds of fanci-
ful treatments. Employ a tonic
by all means if such is required,
m.
TALKS. jj
chemists. It consists of small
which, when mixed with a cup of hot watery
make the most charming mixture imaginable
for shampooing the hair. According to tno
quantity used, so the strength is graduated ,to
suit all conditions. There is one drawback,
however, and that is stallax can only Be
obtained in :}lb. tins, which cost about
half-a-crown, but as this quantity is suffi-
cient to make 25 to 30 shampoos it is
really very economical in the
end. It leaves the hair a little
too wavy and Huffy for some
tastes, but this can always be
avoided by rubbing a little olive
oil on the scalp previous to
its application.
A FEW remarks on face
creams may not be out of
place, and, at the risk of being
put clown as a little old-fash-
ioned, my advice on this subject
is to leave well alone. I)o not clog
the pores with greasy concoctions
which not only prevent the skin
from performing its proper func-
tions, but usually result in eu-
but, having found a satisfactory one, use no
other.
NOW about shampoos. Is it reasonable
to expect that one particular make will
suit everybody V Certainly not. Some folks
have dry and brittle hair, others have tresses
which are excessively greasy. Each requires
a different grade of shampoo, if one is to
obtain the best results. The writer’s notice
was recently brought to a substance called
stallax. which- can be obtained from most
couraging a growth of hair on the fact, and
you know very well what that means —disfig-
urement for the rest of your natural days. I f
it is necessary to use an emollient at all, get
some me realised wax from your chemist and
apply in the usual way. This remarkable
substance seems to absorb the worn and
weatherbeaten outer cuticle, and in a few days’
time the new. healthy skin underneath peeps
forth in all its brilliance, and is, of course,
unite free from imperfection or blemish. (o
HliV'
THE WORLDS BEST
For all-round work, for sporting or range shooting, for every quality that a rifle should hc«e,
there is nothing to equal the . .
B.S.A. No. 2 Model Rifle CALIBRE
This rifle was good enough to win the 1913 miniature championship of New South Wales for
Mr. Faux, and many other important competitions and matches. Largely used by rabitters
and others on account of its unerring consistency. A full length man’s r.fle, good to handle
and good to look at, sighted 200 yards and sold by all up-to-date dealers at 35/-.
Also supplied in folding pattern for cyclists, motorists and travellers at 45/-
Write now for descriptive booklet to
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), Australian Bldgs., Melb.
Choose a "Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. TV-e can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
The w,
SWAN SAFETY
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
a
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and Branches.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings,
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
255 a George St., Sydney.
The Royal
Tonic—
The Tonic
of Queens !
m
PHOSFERI
W»ul Kit ui4k>*. o»**H u
<H C*-*. fcK •••**—*
:srv
bmimuMti fc*« 4<M
wit# BHi» if ASHTQH t P*
E-a
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza,' Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
Kriischen
{ Salts \
Now sold by Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, Olarence Street, SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
Si
fln«Tn*i iZiFa, CURES’ Write for* Book
us s falling eyelashes, weak sight
»<?' Lambeth Road - London, Enfi.
Insist on Singleton s' -refuse all substitutes.
GROSS FEEDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Personally he thought it would be a good idea to
remove this row of trees. Moreton Bay figs were
notoriously gross feeders.
— Deputy-Town Clerk of Sydney.
Gross feeders! Then they’d better go !
Who better than this clerk should know
What things exceed their rightful shares ?
Has he not dined with many Mayors !
N.S.W.
COUNCILLOR SWOLLEN.
A correspondent writes to say it was pro-
posed to substitute a suitable native name
for Creswick (Vic.), and it was suggested by
a local humorist to call it “Piamurakinkan-
inna,” meaning “the home of the bird that
laughs.”
A few days ago a small black-and-white
artist in Melbourne, very small physically,
and still about 400 rungs from the top of
the ladder, was commissioned by a weekly
paper to do a caricature of the new Gover-
nor-General. The small artist has a small
office at the top of a high building in the
city. He struggled long with his subject,
but finding that the rather level features of
Munro Ferguson were hard to trap, he went
to the nearest telephone, rang up Govern-
ment House, fastened on a secretary, de-
manded the gubernatorial ear, actually got
it, and said: “I say, Sir Ronald, I have to
do a drawing of you for the . I can’t
get it right, and I’d like you to come in and
sit for me for 10 minutes.” The Gov.-Gen.
excused himself rather weakly. “Oh, very
well,” replied the diminutive artist. “I
promise you it will be a rotten caricature !”
“Altar Boy”: Apropos Monsignor Cer-
retti, Australian clergy in general have been
unwilling to use the title, which has been
much associated with Worldly Wisemen, such
as Monsignor Capel, embalmed as Catesby
in “Lothair.” Deans Fitzpatrick and O’Hea,
of Melbourne, were monsignors, but sup-
pressed it. On the other hand, Dean
Phelan flaunted the title. 11 is successor at
St. Patrick’s, little Dean McCarthy, has
just been dubbed Monsignor, too. As Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer, McCarthy is a
great worker. He is one of those men who
make me think of Barnum’s Queen of
Beauty entering the City of Pianketank.
She was drawn on her triumphal car by
magnificently caparisoned elephants, camels
and ostriches ; but all the pulling was done
by an old horse, covered up. That’s
McCarthy. Another monsignor of this order
is Barry, of Bendigo, who has been absorbed
in the administration of the treasure left
by Dean Backhaus, the Austral-German
mining speculator, all for the good of Mother
Church. Barry has spent £120.000. of which
the Sacred Heart Cathedral got £50,000 and
St. Aldan’s Orphanage £40,000.
An adventurous spirit was snuffed when
John Lewis died at Te Araroa (M.L.) last
week. As a youngster he joined Bull’s navy,
and took a hand in the bombardment of
Acre, in 1840. After that he signed on the
Admiralty transport Buffalo, convict-laden
for Hobart, and thence went to Maoriland
on the vessel for spars. While lying in
Mercury Bay (M.L.) the Buffalo was blown
ashore and wrecked. The crew pushed on to
Auckland and put in time by establishing
the first pub. This was a derelict brig,
which was hauled up-shore to what is now
the main street. Business was good while
the rum lasted. In the following years
Lewis was by turn whaler, owner and
skipper of a trading cutter, hotel proprietor,
soldier (against the notorious Hauhaus) and
block-house keeper. He was 96 when Time
handed him his discharge.
“Ninety-six”: More about John Michael
Finnerty (God rest him !), the first West-
ralian goldfields’ warden. In the early days
of Kalgoorlie the Warden’s Court adjoined
the Miners’ Institute. While the Court sat
building was going on at the Institute. The
noise of hammering got so exasperating
that Finnerty ordered the contractor in and
threatened him with all sorts of
things if the nuisance was not abated
during court hours. Soon afterwards
another wooden addition was being made to
the Institute, and the noise was worse than
ever. He inquired for the builder again.
A different one. he was told —a very deaf
man, who, as Finnerty knew, had had a
heap of bad luck. “Go on,” said Finnerty,
and he put up with the noise rather than in-
terfere with a hard-working chap who was
trying to make good.
The fool farmer in Maoriland is the best
friend the Yankee Meat Trust has. One of
him said at a Farmers’ Conference the
other day :
There is no reason to fear the Trust; in fact, we
want it. So long as it does not take over the con-
trol of our freezing works, no harm will be done. Once
it does that, however, the country will be in deadly
danger. But the difficulty can be overcome by the
farmers themselves. Let them be loyal to their own
companies and all will be well.
Yet statements have already been published
that one large freezing firm has sold out to
the Trust, and that Trust agents are buying
for future delivery, and are operating not
only in meat, but in hides and sheep-skins
as well. One big meat co. is offering to erect
freezing works for farmers if one-half of a
new issue of £lOO,OOO of capital is locally
subscribed. This is called co-operation; but
as the original holders retain- their full in-
terest on the old basis,, there’s, just about the
same amount of co-operation as there is
between Bottle-Oh Bill and the breweries —-
he gets his profits on the bottles, and they
on the beer. And isn’t it the same old Meat
Trust methods in a new guise? Co-operation-
is the great decoy in Maoriland, and the
Trust isn’t likely to ignore it while the
farmer will bite.
An old man has been fined in Adelaide
for giving his dog a swim in the Torrens.
His method was to drop it from a bridge—
25ft. He swore that the collie was used to
the trick and liked it. and that he himself
is “passionately” fond of animals; but the
P.M. thought it worth a small fine. In-
cidentally, a lawyer pointed out that “ill
treat,” the phrase in the Act, is there defined
as “to abuse or torment,” but is not defined
in the dictionaries at all. “You know, y’r
Honor, I am tormented and abused in this
court every day, and so are you, but we
do not come under the provisions of the
Act.” To which the P.M. naturally re-
plied that it was for the protection of dumb
animals, and no one had ever accused his
learned friend of being' that.


h
1
> -. • , • *
mk. *®bi v
IJfcl
PFV
lid
om,
(1/ * SQUARE’
, v'
ft
R.Thorme 6 Sons Limited.
3 Greenock- Distilleryv
V^ oUB “ T£, ' s »v
lion House. TowerMl tOHDOhfi
&IABUSWW
* 1631 ,
Trace
Mark
to
r.tiAfrtf
%
aiHH
", ' V '»S^
■SMI
jmm
'
Tis the Most
Popular Whisky
At the club, or any place where men
meet for social intercourse, the “Black
Square” bottle is kept on the move.
Men know that it contains a thoroughly
reliable spirit which is of unvarying
mellowness maintained for over 80
years—and its smoothness and quality
leave nothing to be desired.
Thorne’s is essentially for the man who
appreciates a superlatively good whisky,
for it is perfectly distilled, fully blended
and patiently aged at Glenlivet —the
traditional home of all good Scotch
Whiskies.
Its quality never varies, and every
bottle enhances the already excellent
reputation of
Thorne’s
Old Hi
Malt
Whisky
hland
“Incomparable.”


NO TIME
TO LOSE
If you want to take advantage of
FLAVELLE’S
HALF-PRICE
SALE—
to buy gifts of Jewellery, Watches, etc.
The Sale actually ended last Saturday,
but in order to allow Bulletin readers
to participate in the last savings we will
fill any , orders from this advertisement at
Half-price.
I
Handsome Pair Solid Gold
Links, very strong arid durable.
Were £2/2/- Now £l/1/-
Quite Plain Oval Links,
15ct. Gold. ' Very strong con-
nection Chains. Were £3/12/-
Novv £l/16/-
Yery Neat Domed Oval Gold
Links, half handsomely engraved,
part plain for monogram. Were
37/6. Now 18/9.
Dainty Pair 9ct. Links, torpedo
and shield. 18/- Now 9/-
The Very Newest Idea in
Gold Fob Chain, for gentlemen--
extra heavy—uncommon design. ' Was
£7. Now £3/10/-
Dainty Gold Fob Chain for
evening wear. Milanese pattern with
plain huckle in centre. Was £5/18/-
Now £2/19/-
Neat, All-Gold Fob Chain,
flexible basket pattern. Very strong.
Was £3/10/- Now £l/15/-
Serviceable Ribbon Fob
Chain, with 9ct. Gold Mounts.
Was £l/15/- Now 17/6.
Solid Gold 15ct. Medal, . handsome raised
shield on
monogram -plain back for inscrip-
tion. Was £2/13/-
Now £l/6/6
Solid Gold Medal "f
uncommon design, raised
floral pattern. Wa s-
£2/10/- Now £l/5/-
Very Neat Oval
Gold “Golf” Medal,
with raised figure, plain
bevelled edge. Was
£2/2/- Now £l/1/-
fdh
Dainty Size Masonic Medal, 9ct. Gold.
Was 28/- NOW 14./-- .
Uncommon Sardonyx Seal Pendant,
with Strong Gold Mounts, suitable for attaching
to Gentleman’s Fob Chain. Was £2/2/-
Now £l/1/- -
MAlfi OKDF.US receive our prompt and careful
attention.
Flavellc, Roberts $
Sankey, Ltd.,
150 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & GO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street. Ilavmarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
M
COPY THIS SKETCH
and send it to us with 4d.
in stamps for criticism, and
let us explain how our per-
sonal lessons by post will
develop your talent for
profitable Black and White
Sketching.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF SKETCHING,
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
PEAFNESS.
Every condition of deafness, or defec-
tive hearing is being helped and cured
by Wilson’s Common-Sense Ear
Drums. If you suffer from Catarrhal
Deafness, Relaxed or Sunken
Drums, Thickened Drums,
Roaring and Hissing Sounds,
Perforated or Partially De-
stroyed Drums, Drums wholly
Destroyed, Discharge from
Ears, use the order form
below and get relief at
once. No matter how long-
standing the case may be,
there is hope of good hearing
for all the afflicted deaf.
THE DRUM
111 POSITION
The Common-Sense Ear. Drums are made of
soft, sensitised material, comfortable and safe
to wear. They are out of sight when worn,
and easily adjusted by wearer.
The total cost is £l. Order to-day.
ORDER FORM.
•STAR NOVELTY CO.,
103 Australian Buildings, Melbourne.
Please send me an Outfit, containing a pair
of Wilson Common-Sense Ear Drums, an Inserter
and a Remover, for which I enclose One Pound.
.Name
Address
NOTE.—Send Money Order or Postal Note. If
a Banknote or Sovereign is sent, you must regis-
ter it. [2
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
YVk Supply—
J ARRAU and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, I.ONDONi E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, -MELBOURNE, VIC
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all pans of the world.
ACCORDEONS
The DUDLEY
No other accordeon can compare with the
“Dudley” for excellence of finish and full,
sonorous tone. Every instrument thoroughly
tested.
93
DUDLEY ACCORDEON MODEL “A”
Ebonised Mouldings; Nickel Corner Protec-
tors; 10-Button Keys of Mother of Pearl; 2
rows of Steel Reeds; 10-fold Double Bellows;
2 Basses; 2 Stops; Leather Handles.
POST FREE 35/-
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” instru-
ments or write direct to —
• A. P. SYKES,
272 LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
PERTUSSIN
mm
V. i
£J
m
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
COUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Can be obtained at all Chemists.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession
Hydl
ometers, for testing
every liquid.
n
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request, .
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants,
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS & CO. Ltd., Wharf St-, Brisbane, Q
Be sure you
see the “Ideal”
Trade Mark
on the pen
you buy.
.\\uiiiiinnTiiiniiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniun e
a
a
CO
S
CO
a
a?
a
ca
a iitiiHiiHiiiiiiiiimiHiiliiiHiiiiiiiMiiiiiill^ V <aiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiii»iinHiuiiiiiiih!
Every Pen Guaranteed
Iridium-tipped Gold
Nibs to suit ail hands.
In four types—
Regular, Safety, Self-
Filiing and Pump-
r Filling.
Sold by Stationers and
Jewellers everywhere.
r L 4 C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd-
Koh-i-noor House, LONDON. Eng.
(Australia: 350, George St., Sydney.;
Write for booklet.
The finishing touch.
M
&
1
Hal IN i
*'ol v/
m
m
m
THE
It
"KALODERMA
preparations are the most perfect of Toilet
Requisites.
"KALODERMA"
Soap. Prepared with Glycerine and Honey.
Luxurious aiid refreshing. The best Soap for
Softening and Beautifying the complexion.
"KALODERMA"
Face Powder. Unequalled for the Toilet.
Refined and soothing. Can be had in Pink,
White or Cream.
tl
"KALODERMA
Jelly, makes and keeps the complexion as pure
as the Lily. A most lovely Skin Emollient.
Absolutely free from Grease.
"KALODERMA"
Is obtainable at all the Leading Establishment?
F. WOLFF & SOHN
KARLSRUHE Germany and LONDON.
“0.K.”: The understating of Ellen Terry’s age
began when she was very young, and continued
always. Time has sanctified the little imposition.
Having played child parts with the Keans in the 50 s
of last century, she was commonly supposed to have
been only eight when she made her first appearance,
and only 10 when she gave an admirable performance
of Prince Arthur in “King John.” An infant phe-
nomenon is always credited with more phenomenality
than would appear from a correct statement of his
or her years. Ellen Terry was probably not younger
than 15 when she played Prince Arthur. A good
idea of her real age can be got from a Times notice
of her performance in “The Little Treasure,” dated
March, 1863. Said the critic: “It presents Miss
Ellen Terry in an entirely new light. But a short
time since this young lady was known as the suc-
cessor of her sister, Miss Kate Terry, in the repre-
sentation of the most juvenile characters; and now
she is matured into one of the happiest specimens of
what the French call the ingenue that have been
seen on any stage.” So it seems that 51 years ago
Ellen Terry had “matured” into an actress of young
girl parts, though theatrical records make her out
to have been only 15 at the time. ' More likely that
she was then a girl of 20, and is now turned 70, as
her appearance suggests.
None but the brave deserve the luck —and Quinlan
got his deserts when, owing to financial difficulties,
his opera, co. did not boprd the s.s. Empress of Ireland
for her last voyage. The Quinlan tour seems to
have ended * disastrously in Canada. Times are not
too good in Canada, and Quinlan, arriving there with
his army in the winter, met the fate of Napoleon in
Russia. Under happier financial ‘ circumstances the
crowd would have left Quebec in the Empress and
been drowned. The failure of the treasury was the
salvation of the treasures.
“Lelaminer”: . A Poverty Pointer speaks of stal-
wart Gordon Carter in liis capacity of concert mana-
■ ge’r for the Palmer-Beaumorit co., but says nothing
of the “concert-direction” scheme in which he and
‘the late Gladstone Wright - had' Sir William Robin-
son behind them. It was. “queered” bv a tragedy.
Gladstone Wright,- a popular Melbourne baritone and
vocalist, was engaged to sing solos in an oratorio
performance by the Geelong. Liedertafel, and at the
final rehearsal he sang “It is Enough” with so much
force and feeling that the Liedertafel choristers
begged him as a favor to do it again. ! Next morn-
ing he died in his bath. Gov. Robinson returned to
England soon afterwards, and died likewise. Mean-
while Gordon Carter wasted no time in deploring his
bad luck with what had looked a very promising
musical spec. He took up with the Vie. Public
Service —as a draughtsman, or something—and is
known nowadays as a smart citizen who is always
well-informed - about persons and things! The last
public entertainment wherein Carter figured con-
spicuously was Alf Lumsden’s candidature for the
Frank Madden seat in the Vic. Assembly. It was a
vigorous attempt to bump the weighty Tory'out of
his place, and it nearly succeeded. 1
“Kill”: Some members of the squattocracy visited
“On Our Selection” at Brisbane on Cup night, and
from a private box assailed the players: with lumps
of cheese, evidently commandeered from, a neighbor-
ing bar, an old hat or two, and such like tributes.
Bert Bailey, in return, gave the “gehtlemen” 'a
piece of his mind, and they’d probably rather have
kept the cheese.
No more stories'of actresses • being robbed of their
diamonds. The good old advertising gag is out of
date. Actresses nowadays just chuck their jewellerv
away. The -Williamson chronicler of dramatic events
reports that whilst Miss Ethel'Warwick was travel-
ling from Sydney to Melbourne she threw a dis-
carded chocolate box out of the window!of the train
and thus lost a diamond ring valued at £5O. “Tt
slipped from her . finger and disappeared into the
darkness.”
“U S.” : The statement that Julius Knight toured
the United States with Jefferson may revive interest
in that great comedian. He was of a theatrical family,
his grandfather being eminent, and his father good.
Joe himself was 30 before he struck the public eye.
He was the original Asa Trenehard, in “Our American
Cousin,” at Laura Keene’s Theatre, New York, with
Sothern as Dundreary ; but the world will remember
him better for his Rin Van Winkle, patched up from
versions used by Burke and Hackett. l lt had not
, caught on much before he came to Sydney. This
Australian trip followed a period of mental depres-
sion over the loss of his wife ; he brought with him
his little son, afterwards a well-known manager—
among Other things he produced “The Shadows of
a Great Citv:” Jefferson’s success, under Tolano in
Sydney and Simnjonds in Melbourne, was remarkable..
The fame of Rin Van Winkle,. in particular, was
such that be might have acted nothing else after-
wards. Boueieault smoothed up the play for London,
where he appeared at the Adelphi, though the season
was nearly thwarted through a quarrel between
Boucy and manager Webster. ’through the over-
whelming celebrity of Rip the United States did
not see enough of Jefferson’s other fine parts, as in
“Our American Cousin,” “Octoroon,” “Cricket on
the Hearth,” “The Rivals,” “Ticket of Leave Man,”
etc.
“Kill”: Laid up at Brisbane is Miss Florence
Richter, an actress of Australian reputation, who
reckons she owes a good deal of her success to the
rough and ready methods of the late Geo. Rignold.
•(Speaking of Rignold, she says he could make a girl
swear or erv, and reckoned she was hopeless only
when he could get her to do reither.) Having to do a
stage jump at the Theatre Royal, where she has been
portraying varying sorts of wicked female, Miss
Richter twisted her foot, broke two bones, and for a
month has been chained to the doctor.
Lilia Wilde claims to have played the part of
Nellie Denver in “Silver King” oftener than any
other actress living or dead. When she was in Aus-
tralia with her husband, years ago, she might have
claimed to be the prettiest of all the Nellie Den-
vers, anyhow. She was not a very strong actress at
that time, but, seemingly, she has improved with
age, for she has played Wilfred Denver’s wife nearly
1000 times in Great Britain since Australia saw her.
What do these funny people in England expect ?
The Standard (London) says of Marshall Hall’s
opera, “Stella,” that there is “nothing antipodean in
either the music or the story.” How was Hall to
show that his music came from the antipodes? In-
sert “Gorsave” played backwards? Maybe the critic
expected the priina donna to make her entrance on
her head, or the tenor to tickle his lumbar vertebrae
with his heel instead of biffing himself with the right
hand over the cardiac dilation of the stomach as
tenors usually do.
CLASSICAL MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You played, and you wove in your music’s woof
Many a chaste and wintry scene,
Till the ivory notes were as loaded dice
To win a sea that was full of ice
And a berg, light-flecked and green,
And clear as moonlight, an open sweep,
A wave on a frozen shore,
A seabird winging from deep to deep
And a black seal's mateless roar.
Oh, play me a tango throbbing warm,
Where never a northern wind can grieve ;
Some hot still night from the dance-hall bring
A dark-eyed girl on the boards a-swing,
With a dagger in her sleeve.
Gilt earrings tinkle to every move,
Her lank-haircd lover with lips a-burn
Hisses a threat to prove his love
In that last, quick, clasping turn.
Oh, play me a jest from some cafe rouge,
Rooms overcrowded and sick with scent ;
Hurry me out of that ice-bound place
Where one meets the stark soul face to face
And dies of its discontent!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


\
\
*9
44
LIFTIN
P
\
'
i
m
rl
/A
ml
i
'7v
7
*
i/V
lfU
(<fj
■i
|u
38m
ft
-ftv
11
%
~=s£\>^
if
\#
<s=*
f
7~
w
«2i
3S
>*»
I
>J
V
/
*A
S
/
WJt
7
'/
/ *
/
' CL /\
Usher’s
Green Stripe
Whisky


Shipping;.
P.
and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
ORMONDE .. Geared Turbine
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HADE.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at Si% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when yon require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Asrencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000 000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. ..£1,195 446
RESERVE FUND £35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George mid Kins* Streets, Svdnev.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager—' W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,01)0.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South’ Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary
Shipping.
"\T ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-Ll IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON. ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON': 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
HI., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111.. £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
♦Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
fdh
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
*CERA M IC , 18,500 tons, about JULY 4.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about AUG. 15.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about SEPT. 5.
•Largest vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Fares —Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . . . 25 5 0
Melbourne .. . . . . . . 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY 'l
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June .27.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 1.
Leaves Sydney July 4.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 8.
Leaves Sydney July 11.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
south.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 27.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 4.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
WINTER TOURS
tv'-'
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
via. Lord Howe &, NorfolK Islands.
A Voyage Replete with Novel Sights,
Beautiful Scenery and Curious People.
One of the longest, most . enjoyable and
inexpensive Island Holiday Trips ever
devised.
53 DAYS* TOUR. FOR £25.
Send for our special Leaflet describing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney. William Street,
Melbourne. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BANK. OF NFW SOUTH WALES
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£0,450,000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Bucldand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.O.
The lion. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery; C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office-George St., Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St. f E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. .T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .'.£1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund .. ... 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .’. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiir.it, Esq... .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares .. . . .. 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
CHANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Gen. Man., Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
f H ?. North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £ 4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.-
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
1 m
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
_ cate and adhesive.
Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”,
“Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Write for Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
Attractive offer to representative
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, V. S. A.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WAN DILL A (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 4 and August J.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerase Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns
WARILDA (8000 tons),
June 27 and July 25.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office,
G. 8. YUILL Sc CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
+
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASa
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (Avonmouth).
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN GORDON.
SYDNEY .. .. about JULY 4, 1914.
MELBOURNE .. „ JULY 7, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON:—
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Snloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on upper deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins with spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply:—
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
"Zealandia," “Westralia,"
“Ulimaroa,” "Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” ‘‘Victoria."
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PUR IS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WES f
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of call, First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy.’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers.
BURNS, PHILP g COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, U BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotels. &c.
mMM
-'V'i,
in
He
Iff!®
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
-•
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
. Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
: SHADES Raven
| Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
■Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
f and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
r Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
(for a fair
► ...TRY
DINKUM GO
THE ...
5
MEZON
ft
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
'
JM* Australia
Open
■for all
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY
General Banking Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any partoi the world. Bills negotiated or forwarded for collection. Banking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed- deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
■from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at q°/
per annum &/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy ami Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: IX6 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
ASTONISHING!
£BlBl-
- our Price for one of the
High-grade
“Fx&R” WATCHES
in a heavy, solid Gold Hunting
Case, in Gentlemen’s size.
The Gold is English Hall-
marked, alloyed with copper,
so that it never changes color.
The movement is a J-plate
Lever, with expansion balance,
brequet hair spring, and 15
jewels, and every latest im-
provement known to horological
science.
It will stand any amount of
rough, hard wear—bush wear
—and go with profound accuracy.
I
/
s
15 Years’ Guarantee.
Gent.’g Solid Gold
Hunting Case j-
plate Lever, with
expansion balance,
brequet hair spring
and 15 iewels,
£B/8/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES
STRICTLY CASH
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
“IT’S A REAL PLEASURE.”
\>A
That is the verdict of every man who shaves with
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
It is easy to understand why, when you realise the splendid qualities
of the “PLUM.” It shaves easy, without any pulling or tearing—it does
not cause redness or irritation —it enables you to have a perfect
shave every day in the year. The blade’s the thing—it is made
from the finest-tempered silver steel, and never gets dull or blunt.
GET A “ PLUM ”—lO 6, Post Free.
We guarantee to keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle 10/6
Pair, in Double Case, an excellent set 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, splendid quality 15/6
Pair, in Double Case, a handsome present 307-
Plum-Razor Strop 10/6 and 7/6
Razors Ground and Set with care 1/ -
Safety Razors, handy and efficient from 5/6
C. & A. Moustache Trainer, shapes the moustache, worn at night—
Send for our Illustrated Price List. 2/6, 3/6, 5/6
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
A Safe Rule
in buying footwear is to always
make a point of selecting Abbey
Shoes.
The illustration depicts a special
Gold Shoe, in Choice Tan Willow
Calf, 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney
*
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Arrllev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
• **
.....
■
•r
m
smm
a
mmsM
BBBK
i Hi
i«r
i*a
• O^c
. • - vsEs®^'*
I
si
H
r \
B
si
'.;-i
'IIJN
• i#4f
•V •••.•■■'
HR
"v
j.-
X
m
■
: ,jT*s<-3
v r b
t.'SWK
,
’ \ \ \ '"'^V” v W >' i * vVx'.’C
TESTS ON ABOVE ‘ENGINES.
1. Guaranteed Consumptions • • • • r ••
2. Consumptions attained on official test by Gov-
ernment Testing Bureau • • • • • •
3. Consumptions given by the Station officials after
running 6 months on load . . • • • •
Waterfeed to boiler,
B.H.P. per B.H.P. Hour.
—9.71 b.
407.9 9.11 b.
408 9.01 b.
Coal per
B.H.P. Hour.
1.231 b.
I.llb.
1.095ib.
WOLF
Patent Superheated
Steam Locomobiles
We are installing, amongst others, three of these
engines for the SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY, and
two for the BROKEN HILL WATER SUPPLY;
we also have a great many already in successful
use throughout Australia.
The illustration shows
The Fulda Electric Power Station,
consisting of —
2 Units, type V.K., 480 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
Repeat 1 Unit, type V.K., 680 B.H.P. each, with
direct coupled dynamos.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVESi
Haes 8 Eggers Ltd.
163 Clarence Street, Sydney


I
%
W
m
lir~-
2?
*M
t*.
sl\'
15he “K.UMFY”
Camping' Rug'.
This is a good All Wool Australian Rug—
72in. x 90in. —big enough to wrap yourself in;
splendidly suited for sleeping in, and made to
give years of wear; in the most serviceable
patterns. The finest value in the land.
SENT TO YOU, PREPAID, FOR 35/-
F I N N E Y’S,
The Big Block, Brisbane.
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is Richer than Meats and contains the
same amount of Fat.—lt is even better
than fresb fish because it is cooKed in tbe
can, therefore none of tbe goodness can
escape. Always insist on “Horseshoe.”
It’s DELICIOUSLY FRESH
IN
BANANA LAND
Here is a nice example of the vastness and
the emptiness of the North. A Camooweal
resident, summoned on several occasions to
appear before the nearest police court for
breaches of the Liquor Acf, has always
allowed judgment to go against him by
default. The “nearest court” is at Clon-
curry, nearly 300 miles away, and it has been
better business to face the fine than the
journey.
Virgil Power, ex-Judge, died in Brisbane
the other day. He was a Queenslander (born
in Brisbane in 1849) who took to law as a
youngster, put in his first few years at the
Bar in Ireland, and then returned to Aus-
tralia to lift for 20 years some of the fattest
briefs in Brisbane. In 1895 he accepted a
Supreme Court Judgeship, and gave up a
large income in return for a less strenuous
job. He wore the Judge’s millinery for 15
years, and then went into retirement.
Wm. Beale, an Isis farmer, writes from
Durban to the Isis Recorder that he found
plenty of sugar made in South Africa by
black labor costing 355. to 40s. a month.
He adds: “Sugar here costs £l5 a ton whole-
sale, or £2B a ton retail, or about 3d. a lb.”
Yet in Southern Queensland, where a white
man working in the cane gets a wage run-
ning from 10s. to 12s. a day, you can buy
excellent sugar retail at 21d. a lb. Which
is another knock for the old Tory theory
that “cheap” labor means cheap goods and
“dedr” labor inevitably results in expensive
products.
“D. Obo” : Dobo, in the Dutchmen’s Aru
Islands, two days’ journey from Thursday,
is the centre of operations of a large
pearlshelling co. comprised of Austra-
lians. James Clark and E. Munro, of Bris-
bane, and Captain George Smith, of Darling
Point, Sydney, are big men in the show,
which owns over 90 luggers, five schooners
and a small steamer. Now, after about i 0
years’ operations, the grounds are nearly
worked out, and rumor has it that the
owners are anxious to get some of the.fl-bet
back to “Thirsty,” their old-time abiding
place. For positions are now reversed, j Tons
of new shell are said to be waiting for them
at the old grounds, while at Dobo last sea-
son undersized (known as chicken) shell
was all that some of the mostly-Jap. divers
could dredge up.
“Rangan”: Bananaland has an Agricul-
tural Bank, formed “for the purpose of
assisting agriculturists and graziers.” And
this is how it does its job. Last
January four settlers at Wowan (C.Q.)
put in for advances and lodged in-
spection fees. Nine weeks later word
was received that an inspector was
coming. Four weeks later —April 18 —he
came. A few days ago, or five months after
the application was lodged, one of the three
received one-third of his advance. Mean-
while the other two, who had spent the five
months snaring ’possums and watching the
weeds grow where the corn ought to be. are
still free to continue work along those lines.
The result of this diseom;iging policy is that-
the settler frequeritly tflrows up the fight
and gets back to towfiv or else falls into the
open maw of a private money-lender; and
M, en his last state is liable to be worse than
l is first.
The American Trade Commissioners in
Brisbane expressed themselves astounded at
the “wonderful railway mileages of this coun-
try.” In plain English they were staggered
to find how long were our railways and. how
few and scattered our people. But they
put it the more polite way.
Cry from out of the North :
MATRIMONIAL.—Superior Aboriginal in perma-
nent billet for 20 years desires meet aboriginal young
lady of good character. Write in first instance
“Genuine,” c/o Cairns Post.
Thus insidiously do the subtleties of civilisa-
tion supplant the old cave-man’s direct
method of winning a missus by cracking the
lady on the head.
“J.H.”: “Jimmy” Davidson, who died in
Angledool the other day, was one of the
best-known of Cobb and Co.’s drivers in
South-Western Queensland. For many years
he drove between Yeulba and Surat,
thence on to St. George, once the metropolis
of Queensland cattle-duffers. The mail ser-
vice on that track is now run by motor-car,
and this will account for Jimmy’s drift so
far away from his old “pitch.” A sterling
Labor man, it will come as a surprise to
old friends to hear it alleged that he was
drinking with a Chinaman —who stands
charged with killing him—when the trouble
occurred.
Interesting extract, regarding our little
brown friends in the North, taken from a
book published in 1906, by Francis McCul-
lagh, New York Herald’s correspondent
with the Russians during the Ituss-Jap dust-
up :
I paid a visit to Mr. Lessar, the Russian Minister
at Pekin, now, alas, dead.... Most of his conversation
was devoted to a heated exposition of the dangers
to which European and American interests in the
Far East were exposed through the Japanese propa-
ganda in China. He told me in the most earnest
manner (and I must say that owing to his ghastly
appearance, for he was then dying, his words had a
great effect on me) that the Japanese were working,
through Yuan-shih-kai and the Yangtsze viceroys,
towards the overthrow of the Mjanchu dynasty. They
were exciting a revolutionary spirit in the country.
. . .The Japanese wanted in China a strong new
Government which would be able to unite with
them against Europe; and England would be the
first to suffer when Japan-had attained this end.
Now, if that well-informed Russian Minis-
ter knew as much about the latter part of
the business as he knew about the first part
of it, John Bull’s pot of trouble (and, of
course, Australia’s) is on the simmer.
The S. M. Herald (11/6/T4) reprinted
the following from “The Amazing Argen-
tine,” Foster Fraser’s latest book: —
The Chicago firms in the Argentine have a long
purse, and are damaging their rivals at both ends,
first by paying Argentine cattle-breeders unprece-
dented prices for beasts, and then by selling the
meat below cost price in the Smithfleld market. Of
course, in reply to what is happening, one hears the
following statement: “Why grumble, when the Argen-
tine cattledealer gets a high price for his beasts, the
London consumer gets cheap meat, and the Chicago
firms pay the difference?” That is true. But it
does not need much business foresight to understand
that when the Anglo-Argentine companies are bank-
rupt, the Chicago Trust, having the game in their
own hands, will pay their own price for cattle, and
lift the price of meat in London. Meanwhile, the
Argentine estanciero is quite happy, and is willing
to let the future take care of itself.
By simply substituting “Australian” for
“Argentine,” the S. M. Herald can get an
accurate line as to the Commonwealth’s
position in regard to the Beef Trust. What
are Bruce Smith and the rest of the Imperi-
alists going to do about it?
Australia’s Commission to the Panama
Exposition has decided to display at ’Frisco
exhibits of the Commonwealth’s pastoral,
agricultural, mineral, horticultural and
forestry industries. Arrangements have
been commenced f<jr . getting together a col-
lection of 2000 fleeces, to which each State
will contribute. The Sunny South show
will cover an area of 15.000 sq. ft. in the
National Pavilion and 50,000 sq. ft. in the
various Exhibition Palaces. The total cost
is set down at £63.000. Alfred Deakin is
chairman of the Commission, and his asso-
ciates are to be appointed by the various
States. F. W. Hagelthorn, M.L.C., has been
nominated to represent Victoria, but so far
the others have not named anybody to
represent them at Uncle Sam’s great picnic.
C. Arthur Pearson sends The Bulletin
some information regarding his scheme for
cheapening Braille literature to the blind
throughout J. Bull’s scattered and piebald
Empire. Recently it was stated that Pear-
son was losing his sight; the fact is now
ascertained that the darkness has already
fallen. Journalism being closed to him, he
is putting in the bulk of his time directing
world-wide attention to this appeal for
funds, which is being made by the National
Institute for the Blind. The sum of
£130,000 is reckoned necessary by the Insti-
tute to produce enougfy Braille literature to
prove a solace to those afflicted with the
sorrow of blindness, and Mr. Pearson, as
honorary treasurer, is waiting at the Insti-
tute offices,; Great Portland-street, London,
for contributions, big or little.
In Conservative Slippers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
: With my feet upon the fender,
Roasting toes by cold made tender,
. I observed my busted slippers
| With my cold feet pushing out,
And I thought, “I’ll get some new ones —
Sound, hand-finished, pink-and-blue ones !
i Why should one to Winter strew one’s
| Feet till they are cold as doubt?”
| So next night, before the glowing
Goals with coal-gas fiercely blowing,
I thrust forth some good sound slippers
Out of which no toes could fall.
But observe! the old contentment
Was not there! With fierce resentment,
I asked what the old boot-gent, meant
By supplying boots too small?
Though next morn he showed me plainly
; I was wrong, the old ungainly
| Slippers on my feet that evening
; Lay like rags before the coals.
! Slippers are like old convictions —
Hard to part from. Their restrictions,
Bursts, and breaks, and contradictions
Make them dearer to our souls.
QUEENSLAND.
COOTHA.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 20, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah, —
Governor and Lady Mac have had a week-
end’s worth of carnival at Rockhampton.
They attended the Jockey Club’s race meet-
ing and ball, where at least eight debutantes,
decorated with bouquets, shook the viee-regai
fingers. The Government House party is
due back at Brisbane to-morrow, so we’ll not
be so lonely as we were yesterday, and
market prices are steady.
The movement to establish a school of
medicine at the University as a sort of tes-
timonial to his Ex. is perceptibly growing.
South Brisbane’s Mayor has already held a
meeting and gathered in a quantity of good
cash towards the expense. Toowoomba fol-
lowed suit. Pretty well all the larger towns
will rake in funds, and then forward the
dollars to Brisbane. Public opinion, which
sometimes is worth a hearing, seems about
equally divided between establishing a school
of medicine and adding a chair of agricul-
ture to the assets of the ’Varsity.
The despicable Queensland climate has at
last accounted for. John Dennis, who arrived
in Moreton Bay in 1864, aboard the ship
Light of Age. He was 93 when lie shipped
by Charon’s craft for the Outward voyage.
Another old Brisbane resident, Mrs. Love,
widow of the late Rev. James Love, and
mother of Dr. Wilton Love, J. Love (the
well-known auctioneer), and R. and • H.
PROOF OF PARENTAGE.
MRS. HOGAN: “ An. yec goin’ to bate Jimmy yerself, or are yez goin ’ to lave vie to do it
always? Sure, I don't belave yez are the father of yer own children at all, at all.”
Love (of the Bank ,of N.Q.) , also passed
over this week, aged 82.
H. M. Hicks, managing director of Per-
kins and Co., Ltd.; and at one time a direc-
tor of Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., died at
Aldershot (Eng.) this week. He was stay-
ing with his. daughter Winnie and her hus-
band (Colonel,McLaughlin) at the time.
Alsoj J. H. G. Rountney, once farmer and
horse breeder, and, later, writer on horses
and the turf under the name of “Waxy,”
died this week in the Mater Misericordise
Hospital. A fortnight ago, knowing that
he might n,ever again watch the horses he
loved, he went to Eagle Farm and saw the
Brisbane Cup run. At one time the lamented
was secretary, and afterwards handicapper,
of the Q.T.C.
Mrs. McVean, who is going out west, was
farewelled on Thursday by about 20 friendly-
inclined representatives of the tea-drinking
sex and handed a reminder of their good
wishes.
Tom"'Allan, younger son of Allan, M.L.A.,
is to be married <on Tuesday to a youthful
•countrywoman or Harry Lauder’s—Miss
Shaw, frae Glasgae. The affair is a some-
what romantic one, since lass and lad had
not seen each other for six years—never
since leaving school, in fact —until Miss
Shaw arrived in Brisbane about a month
ago. Now they reckon to see each other
frequently. -
Brisbane was gay this morning with
flappers of both sexes, attached to long
streamers of light blue and dark blue ribbon
in honor of the boat race between the Gram-
mar School crew and the Southport High
School boys. The latter won a good race
and the Henderson Cup. This utensil now
becomes their exclusive property, as they
have captured it three times in succession.
To-night Mrs. Bousfield, wife of the head-
master, who is an elder sister to the boys,
is entertaining the . crews and most of the
members of the champion cadet team at the
panto.
“The Forty Thieves” and others com-
menced their season here on Monday, and
the manager can be seen any night now nail-
ing up the “House Full” notice with one
hand and warning-off late-comers with the
other.
Ella Caspers gave a concert on the
same night as the panto, opened. In spite
of the opposilion show the contralto had a
good house, which demanded encores with
the unblushing greed that marks the hard-
ened concert-goer.
On Thursday night the boys from Nudgee
College staged Moliere’s “Upstart” at the
Centennial Hall. The acting was very good
indeed ; and if the J.C.W. people are look-
ing for a chance to encourage Australian
stage talent —but there, there; where am I
drifting to now?
E. E. Edwards and Yda Buchanan were
handed a life sentence on Wednesday at
St. Stephen’s Cathedral, Archbishop Duhig
and Father Byrne performing the necessary
offices. The bride wore white, and her
cousin, Jessie Mooney, who was brides-
maid, appeared in pale blue. Only relatives
and a few very old friends sat in the guest
pews, and the wedding breakfast was equally
retiring. The moon will be pursued to Syd-
ney and Melbourne.
Brentnall, M.L.C., who looks 50 and is as
brisk as many a lad of 35, celebrated his
80th birthday on Wednesday, by giving a
huge tea party at Finney’s Roof Garden.
His two daughters, Mrs. E. B. Harris and
Miss Brentnall, helped to navigate the pro-
ceedings and take some of the cargo of con-
gratulations off their youthful parent’s
shoulders.
Yours affectionately.
AUSTRALIA JANE.


mm
•war;
■ ' '
.
m
Tke
10
d 4.
ALWAYS
RELIABLE


A hard
cough
grips you harder every day
you neglect it. SCOTT’S
Emulsion is the right remedy
the only one that eases
the hacking cough, soothes
irritated membranes, heals
inflamed tissues, promotes
strength and builds up the
system to resist dangerous
after-effects and further
attacks.
But, if you decide to try
SCOTT’S, be sure to insist
on the one and only genuine
TRADE
1874
<h
MARK
1914
scorn
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
A Free Trial Supply of
ANTINEURASTHIN
The only known effective remedy for nervous break-
down or exhaustion, will be sent to any address in
Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover cost
of postage. Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
It cures by feeding the brain and nerve cells with
their natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of effec-
tively doing this. Its value is fully demonstrated
by its rapid and permanent effect upon the nervous
system and health generally; sound, natural sleep,
improved digestion, power of application to work,
concentration of thought, and sound, vigorous men-
tality.
Send full address, with 2d. in stamps, to cover
postage, to the Wholesale Distributor for Australia,
H. A. Goddard, No. 3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414
Queen St., Brisbane, or Branches: 194 Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Build-
ings, Queen St., Auckland.
Serial No. 810. —Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales, by H. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810.
-7!? N
ALCUM
WDF.R
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
pi a ted Vanity
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
lima
W'.
**#
H
r«
I
1
Tk
New Preparation
Causes Big Scare Among Hair Specialists.
My True Hair Grower has a most wonder-
ful effect upon the hair glands and tissues
of the scalp. It is the only remedy for the
hair ever discovered that is similar to the
natural hair foods or liquids of the scalp.
It penetrates the pores quickly, and the
hair soon shows the effects of its wonder-
fully exhilarating and life-producing quali-
ties.
Besides being a True Hair Grower, my
preparation quickly removes DANDRUFF,
and stops FALLING HAIR and ITCHING.
It is known the world over, and I have in
my consulting-rooms upwards of 3000 grate-
ful letters from men and women who have
derived so much benefit from the use of my
True Hair Grower as to compel them to
write and thank me.
10,000 FREE TRIAL BOXES!
Having sucli complete confidence in this compound, I am offering a
trial box to anyone interested. Send in your name and full address, to-
gether with three penny stamps for postage, etc.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH
(Dept. 7), 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
W jJ
A SENSE of satisfaction is experienced
every time one wears a pair of
Bostock boots, and from this con-
sciousness of their fine quality springs a
natural and legitimate pride. One feels
that they will contribute to ease and
elegance on the -most exacting occasions,
and one knows ; that their high quality
will be recognised every time they are
handled. This sense of satisfaction is
the inevitable effect of the choice leather
and beautiful work so conspicuous in
every pair of Bostocks. They are the
cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at
the leading stores, and ladies should -call before
the choicest styles are sold.
m
Style 585
&
Three
Sizes
of
VA.2
334 H. P.
Make Your Rowboat Self-Propelled
by attaching the
EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
The Evinrude Motor, attached at the stern of
any rowboat or canoe, will give all the service
and pleasure of efficient Motor-Boating. For
cruising up the river or around the coast.
For conveying cargo quickly at small cost. It
"economizes space, being attached outside the rowboat,
and can be easily taken off without harm to the wood-
work and used on any other boat.
25,000 Satisfied Users. 9 Governments have
adopted the Evinrude Motor after rigid tests.
It is operated by Petrol (gasoline),
with battery ignition or MAGNETO,and
automatic lubrication. Steered by pro-
peller—no rudder required, but supplied if
desired. Reversible. Fully guaranteed.
Motors can be fitted with the Famous Maxim Silencer.
MELCHIOR, ARMSTRONG and DESSAU.
Dept. D-12, 116 Broad Street, New York, U.S.A.
Descriptive Booklet Post Free from
Controlling Ilep'resentative for Australasia and New Zea-
land, H. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 88 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; Dept. D-12, 194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane. Local .Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome, W.A.; C. .1. Eller-
shaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A. Agents wanted in unallotted territory.
Apply, H. A. GODDARD. Brisbane. [
fd
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
I/IJ, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
hfd
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of
■SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
'he cough of BRONCHITIS end
CONSUMPTION.
Acts llko a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Howler: Have great pleasure in cordially
disagreeing with you. It’s a cheap gibe to throw at
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals people that
they would be better occupied running a Society
for the Provision of Three Square Meals a Day.
The chances are that they are doing more to en-
courage a decent sentiment which will lead on to a
universal three square meals a day than thousands of
those who merely howl for the meals. .. .Nose for
News: The contributor who jambs his type-written
lines so close together that a sub-editor can’t
squeeze in between invites himself to the w.p.b. And
that would be a misfortune in your case, because
you ought to have interesting things to say, though
you have taken a long while to say the little you
have said F.T.P.: Well, you’ll lose your bet.
We wouldn’t pay Id. for it. What did we ever
print that made you think we would ?.... G.T.8.:
Somebody was in front of you with that item....
Hilo : Curtis Brown, (i lienrietta-street, Covent Carden,
London, W.C. ; Australasian Authors’ Agency, 239
Collins-street, Melbourne. Don’t know anything
about the London agency you mention... .Lit: The
Minister in charge of that department is the best
of the bunch ; and, though it mightn’t pay to write
and tell him that his subordinates are wrong, a
letter offering to demonstrate the thing could hardly
do harm and might do g00d.... Humpy B.: Dull
verse. If you can market it elsewhere, by all means
do so. There is no hope for that sort here. .. . A.L.:
(V.): You don’t hit it J.K. (V.) : The only thing
notable about your story is that it cost us Bd.
deficient postage. .. .E.J.B. (B.1I.) : Nothing original
in your “Day.”. . . .Lokot Sentiment’s all right, but
the verse is below print-level. . . .E.S.R.: Sort of verse
that has to be lifted with a jack.... Edward II.:
Don’t want your grave. Go and use it yourself
Mrs. C.M. (V.): Not worth print here. Returning
MS Bellerive: Welcome Lome with your plaint:—
I was an honest contributor
And I fail to understand
The reason I’m rejected from
The Correspondent Band,
I endeavored to evade the trail
Of the famous bards of yore,
"While strugling at times to keep
The grim Wolf from the Door.
My life has been a stormy one
In which I’ve baffled brave,
And the chances are I will not live
To meet an old man’s grave.
I was never a dabbler in big words
There’s no embroidery in my verse :
I speedily got an effort down
And let my thoughts disperse.
I was an honest contributor
And I cannot understand
The reason I’m rejected from
The Correspondent Band.
Jules de P.: It won’t appear Billy 0.T.:
Ditto 8.H.F.: Your touch is too heavy
Lammy: Idea is right enough, but, man, you’re a
terrible verse-writer! F.A.C.: Why not spring at
your subject like a bright new policeman, and have
it thrown and handcuffed in the first sentence or
two? That is much better than padding round it like
an old lion whose teeth haven’t come back from
the dentist’s Will X It.: If you can’t write legibly,
why don’t you make your mark ? Your .signature
looks like a complete prescription for something
fatal. (P.S. —We forgive you. After reading the
poem we know why you sent the prescription.)....
D.C.F.: Very painful. Don’t do it again G.L.:
You don’t do justice to Brother Tamarind’s p ok
tights. It is of the first journalistic import; .xe that
you should do full justice to the good things pro-
vided ; and religious pink tights are extra-good things
that are very rarely provided. .. .C. de St. J.: “I got
two or three nice stories written by me.” Right you
are! Let’s see them. Verses returned. .. .T.D.O’D.:
He was a good old blacksmith, so don't drag him
into verse. A blacksmith is always at his best as
a blacksmith. Did you ever read that passionate
lament, “Blacksmith Once”? It was written by a
blacksmith who had become an inksmith, and
seemed to feel his position keenly... .E.J.8.: Don’t
remember the contribution, and the Guardian of
the Office Tomb says ’e ain’t got it. Guess it
couldn’t have reached this office.... Rake: You can’t
plant it here Thinker: Yes, the eggs of Circum-
stance are hatched out by Father Time, but —who
lays them ?.... Frank H. I.: Point too small to
hang anything on. Anyhow, your verse is too
jumpy to hang on to anything. . . .W.G. (Hobart) :
You’re a slow, creaky writer, and, after all, you
don't succeed in lifting anything. .. .Arthur H. :
Hold on ! Don’t kick the door down: —
WAR OR PEACE?
You had it in your hands, my future,
You and your kind, my friend ;
You all refused me print. To endure
For ever’s not my end. ,
Give me my rightful place or look out!
Three years I spent looking,
Praving to editors. Now with stout
Democracy I’m king.
I must have pay and print. Free to lead
I can bring peace again ;
Otherwise —I fear to think. I plead
For fair treatment and sane.
Now, thank Heaven, we’re safe. But we know an-
other editor whom a lot of people would like to kill.
What will you give us for his name and address —-
and theirs?;,.. .P.G.: The shades of evening quickly
fell on" that manuscript.... 2 Hot: Not worth our
while. .. .Amen: Then you’re past praying f0r....
R.W.: It is so splendidly ferocious that it simply
must go in somewhere: —
FINALE.
This is the end—my summer’s dream is done.
Were it your death, I would not now revile
That day whereon the fickle light that shone
From out those vampire eyes held me, the while
My world stdod still, we two therein alone,
Both swojn to love in true Arcadian style.
And all that fairness, all that glowing charm
Was but a fiendish lure, a bait so vile
-That, every living touch, embrace so warm,
That tender innocence, and angel smile
Wherein ten thousand times 1 see no harm,
Was but the filthy image of your guile.
And all those vows —each solemn binding oath
-Wherein you swore, by all the gods, your life
Was mine in an eternal lasting troth —
Were false ; and slowly, slyly as the knife
Of sin, you cut the bonds that bound us both.
You snake, you toad, you anything but wife!
. . . .W.J.M. (and others) : The Abo. jury has unani-
mously acquitted Norman Lindsay on the charge of
milking a cow on the wrong side. Verdict —No
wrong side. Dismiss the court.
"f ‘“Egbert R.”: Great dissatisfaction exists
/in Victoria amongst teachers who have
(graduated at the Melbourne University on
account of the miserable pay offered them.
These teachers’ degrees represent at least 10
years’ school fees, and from three to five
years’ heavier ’Varsity fees; yet several
women graduates have left the ranks of
coaches and teachers, with the attendant
drudgery, to join the telephone service, where
only a very elementary knowledge of Eng-
lish is required. But they say that a sure
£39 to start with, rising to £llO at the end
of the sixth year, with about six hours’ daily
work, is a heap better than teaching can
offer them, in spite of the vast amount of
preparation it entails and the tremendous
national importance of the job


£IQQ FOR TEN
KODAK SNAPSHOTS
We offer a first prize of and il5 other
cash prizes for ten happy snapshots with your
Kodak or Brownie.
There are 28 of these prizes reserved for Beginners
only.
1 his “Happy Moments ” Competition positively
Closes 30thi June, 1914*
and tliose who have not already sent in their “ Happy Moments ”
Albums should do so at once.
Full particulars and Albums are obtainable at all Kodak dealers
or diredt from us.
There’s time yet to fill one. : —but hurry.
The Judges are Messrs. A. H. ADAMS, Author, Poet, Editor
“Red Page,” The Bulletin ; HARRY JULIUS, Cartoonist and
Black and White Artist; and FRED NIBEO, Comedian, of “Get
Rich Quick Wallingford ” fame especially.
mm
..
mm
■
f n
r
'•V.
a*
' ■ ' 5 - -. ’■ ’'saSv
3©
'.. ■ >V. ■• >.■'
r :
• o-‘- ?r*‘
rf,‘ . .:» ' - ’-m' . V
" iSi, ill w.
TC : :
i h,. «
iSSSS
I'.;' '
V:.', ;
MiM
~ 4 f "
'■*• • ‘.if if»i *y
/» ?
■MI
or-
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street
ADELAIDE: 37 Rundle Street.
BRISBANE : 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Hinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Arg'ent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. : 76 Stuart Street.
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARB the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 1/-
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER 17-
JUNIOR 1/6 pADET -/6
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
h
Silver-Toned
MELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/G, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WIUTE FOR OCR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
THE LONE HAND, Bound Volume, New Series,.
No. Colored Covers —IS NOW
BEADY. Orders for same will be.treated in order
of priority. Price: Bound Volumes, 7/6; Binding-
Covers, 2/6.
8?
££
His Master’s Voice” Records.
By PADEREWSKI.
■Cultured musicians admit that these
?Records reproduce Paderewski’s playing
as he himself would have it presented.
This is perhaps the crowning triumph
■of the Gramophone Co., and a fitting
■sequel to their untiring efforts to pro-
cure for posterity the unapproachable
aifts of this great artist.
12-INCH RECORDS—IS/- EACH
2-045506 Aufschvvunsr (Schumann)
2-045505 Des Abends (Schumann)
045538 Nocturne Op. 15-2 (Chopin)
045510 Valse Caprice (Rubenstein)
045529 Valse in C Sharp Minor, Op.
64-2 (Chopin)
045530 Minuet in G Major (Paderewski)
015531 Valse Op. 34-1 (Chopin)
015560 Hark! Hark! the Lark (Schu-
bert-Liszt)
045533 Polonaise Op. 40-1 (Chopin)
Record Lists, Instrument Catalogue and
name of nearest dealer on request.
[
Sole Concessionaires for
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
162 PITT STREET— SYDNEY.
fdh
|?HE WONDERFUL WIZARD’S CARDS)
*
A Full Pack of 53
best quality round-corner-
squeezers, which, besidesj
playing any card game,,
can be used to performj
a dozen
tricks. No sleight'
of hand, no palming,
the cards do the
tricks. You can sepa-j
rate reds from blacks
blindfolded, cut -pack at
any selected card, call'
card after card and draw
(them as called, and many other amazing feats fully ex-
plained in Book of Directions. Price 3/6, carriage paid.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE FLUTA ACCORDEOHi
Price
8/-
Carriage
Paid.
fd
A New Musical Instrument that ANYONE CAN PLAY
without knowing anything about music. The Book en-
ables you to PLAY TUNES WITH FULL HARMONY,
tenor and bass, just LIKE A BAND, beautiful tones, loud
and clear, "''here is no trouble with bellows as with an
ordinary accordeon Nothing to get out of order. The
reeds are unaffected by moisture ol the breath and the case
is very strong, practjcally unbreakable. Length 13 inches
Price 8/- complete with Book of Popular Tunes, no notes.
just figures, that anyone can play, packed in a nice box
and we pay carriage anywhere.! Obtainable only from
ITJi«, VHiow Co., 299 Elizabeth Street. Mclbcurng.l
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the
Chancery Division of the High
Court of Justice made in the matter of the
estate of Robert Townsend Ilippisley de-
ceased Ilippisley v. Ilippisley 1912 H. 1515
and dated the 12th October 1912 the follow-
ing inquiry is directed, viz. : An inquiry
whether CHARLES ERNEST HIPPISLEY
named in the will of Robert Townsend Hip-
pisley is living or dead and if dead when he
died and whether he left any and what will
and whether he was ever married and if so
when and to whom and whether there were
any children of the said marriage and who
are his legal personal representatives.
Notice is hereby given that the said
Charles Ernest Ilippisley and all persons
claiming through or by descent from him
are personally or by their solicitors on or
before the 4th day of July 1914 to come in
and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve,
Room 692 Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London, England, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the bene-
fit of the said order. Wednesday the 15th
day of July 1914 at half-past two in the
afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims. Dated the 15th day of December
1913. —A KEEN, Master of the Supreme
Court.
ROBBINS. OLIVEY & LAKE,
218 Strand, London, W.C.,
For ABBOT, POPE & ABBOT,
Bristol,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Note.- —The above-named Charles Ernest
Hippisle.v who was a son of the testator
Robert Townsend Ilippisley a solicitor of
Bristol England is now if alive about 51
years of age. He went to Australia in Feb-
ruary 1889 and was there employed by
Messrs. Robert Reid & Co., and afterwards
till May 1897 by Messrs. Sands & McDougall
(Limited). He resided at Rochester Lodge,
Collins-place, Melbourne. He left Mel-
bourne in May, 1897, by the Orient Steam-
ship Orizaba for London, where he stayed
one or two months, and is believed to have
resided at 123 Fulham-road, London. In
October, 1897, he left London, and until
April. 1898, was employed by Messrs. J.
Garliek & Co., of Alderley-street, Cape
Town, South Africa, and resided at 43 St.
John-street, Cape Town. He returned to
Melbourne in 1898, and expressed his inten-
tion of going to Queensland or Sydney. He
is alleged to have been seen in London by an
old schoolfellow in 1908.
Should the above advertisement, which
has reference to benefits accruing to him
under his father’s will, meet the eye of the
said Charles Ernest Ilippisley, or in the
event of his_ death that of his widow or
children, he is (or they are.) earnestly re-
quested to communicate with the least pos-
sible delay with his brother Alfred Edward
Ilippisley, of 8 Herbert-crescent, London,
S.W.. or .with the said Messrs. Abbot, Pope
& Abbot, solicitors. Bristol.
HE Australian Magazine—TjHE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly- Price, C;.


Amusements.
ICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH 1). McINTOSII.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS; -
ADA REEVE.
ADA REEVE.
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
Box Plan: THEATRE & NICHOLSON’S.
IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BETH TATE, the Californian Girl.
VAUDE & VERNE.
THE FOUR VAGABONDS. JOSII DIXON.
W. TALLEUR ANDREWS.
GILDAY & FOX.
WINIFRED WARD, the Immaculate Boy.
VIVIEN TALLEUR & FRED READE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—4s., 35., 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
Tivoli thea t r e, Adelaide
THIS WEEK.
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
W. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
Last Nights. ELLIOTT SAVONAS. Last Nights.
: ED. E. FORD, “The Australian Sundowner.”
BENSON & BELLE. THE GILLS.
DUSTY RHODES, “The Caruso of Vaudeville.”
I V O L 1 T H E A T RE, 1* E R T H.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
WELCH & CARBASSE. LAZERN.
ALEX. BLACK.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. AL ROVER.
lIENNESSY & MARTELL. CLARDY BROS.
BARONESS D’ASTRELL. TWO PHILMERS.
SALINGER & HAMILTON. AltDO.
BENSON & BELLE. TOM DAWSON.
PRICES: 3/-, 21- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
-p OW N hT ALL. SYDNEY.
THE GREATEST VIOLINIST IN THE WORLD.
MISCHA ELMAN MISCHA ELMAN
MISCHA ELMAN MISCHA ELMAN
TWO CONCERTS ONLY IN SYDNEY.
THURSDAY, JUNE 25.
FRIDAY, JUNE 26.
WITH GRAND ORCHESTRA OF 72 PLAYERS.
Direction: Mr. JOSEPH BRADLEY.
Also the Charming Cantatrice, Mdlle. EVA GAUTHIER.
At the piano, Mr. PERCY KAHN.
New Zealand Tour: WELLINGTON, JULY 2 and 4 ;
AUCKLAND, JULY 7 and 8 ; DUNEDIN, JULY 13
and 14; TIMARU, JULY 15; CHRISTCHURCH,
JULY 18 and 20.
Direction GEORGE MUSGROVE.
A I, A C E T II E A T It K. S Y l> N K V.
FOUR FAREWELL NIGHTS.
COMMENCING SATURDAY EVENING NEXT.
J. & N. TAIT present
l[ A U 11 Y LAUDER.
Brisbane Season: —
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Commencing MONDAY, JULY 6.
New Zealand Tour: —
Commencing MONDAY, AUGUST 17.
HARKY LAUDER TOUR.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne.
E It MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing musical treat of 1914.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
DlETTipTri TIIEA T K E. SYDN E V.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE BAD GIRL OF THE
FAMILY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 27.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMBINATION, in
NO MOTH Ell TO GUIDE HER.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
ATIONAI T II E A T R E, SYDNEY.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
At 2.30, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8.
1/- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/ & 6d.
THE CASELLI SISTERS, High Kickers.
ED. BLONDELL, assisted by KATHERYNE CAINE,
in his one-act scream, “The Lost Boy.”
CLEMENT MAY, Great Dickensian Artist.
JUNO SALMO, the India-Rubber man.
LES BAU MALAGA. TROUTTS.
Evening Prices as Usual.
’Phone: Central 906 for Reservations.
Til E LITT J, E TIIEA T K E
CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.10 Sharp.
Mr. HUGH C. BUCKLER & Miss VIOLET PAGET
have pleasure in presenting the most famous of all
the Old World Comedies,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
PLAN PALTNG’S. DAY SALE, WHITE ROSE.
gT. JAMES’S HALL, SYDNEY.
Reappearance of Mr.
ALEXANDER WATS O N.
in a Short Series of Recitals.
TO-NIGHT. For the First Time in Sydney.
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
FRIDAY, 26th: NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.
SATURDAY, 27th: GREAT KIPLING NIGHT.
TUESDAY, 30th: THE EVERLASTING MERCY.
SI- (Reserved), 2/-, 1/-. Family Tickets (Reserved),
10/-, Plan at Paling’s.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
I MI’EKIAL SALON DE LUXE.
* Direction BENDRODT & IRVING
DANCING IN LUXURY.
TWICE DAILY.
GRAND FA] lITLA-ND BALL
AUGUST
’Phone, 682 William Street.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES.
■ In GEORGE STREET. ► I
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL, EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres ih Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.ni. to 31 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J, D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Mii.uer, General Manager.
Amusements.
T 11
E OLYM P 1 A , SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE'S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“MOST OF All."
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s.
Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
QLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
TIIE IQE-SKATIEG SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone, Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE. Manager.
g I* EN C E It’S LYCE U M, SYDN E Y.
THE WORLD’S "BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL.
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices-: 1/6,1/- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
Tlfrc KING'S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
MAUD ALLAN
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LEO, JAN & MISCIIEL
CHERNIAVSKY.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
(Conductor, FRANK ST. LEGER).
PRICES: 10/6, 7/6, 6/- PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Direction W. ANGUS MACLEOD.
Manager HOWARD EDIE.
U EK .MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 27.
Grand Revival of Gilbert and Sullivan Opera.
Commencing with a Gala Production of
THE GONDOLIE US.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 27.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
in
OEPJCEII 666.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY LTD.
Present the Stupendous Pantomime Extravaganza,
ALADDIN
Prices: 6/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
J’ r ■ & N~~! T A I T
present
HAROLD BAUER,
MASTER PIANIST.
“A great musician. A genuine artist and an
amazing pianist—that is Harold Bauer.”
—London Daily Telegraph.
Melbourne 1 Season now being given in the Auditorium
Sydney Season in the Town Hall: —
JUNE 27, 29. JULY 1 and 2.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
ELHOURNE REPERTORY THEATRE
AT THE THEATRE ROYAL.
M
SATURDAY, JUNE 27, 2.30 p.m.
Matinee Performance of IBSEN’S
AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE-
BOX PLANS at PIANOLA CO. and BOQKLOVERS’.
g I JOU THEATRE. MEL BO URN K.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director ...... BEN. J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
. AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
DUMITRESEN TROUPE. GRUET & GRUET.
JUGGLING NORMANS. JOLLY FANNY RICE.
DO RE MI TRIO. LA STELLA TRIO. NEIL CANT.
Prices: 2/-6, 2/->,l ]■ & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, If- & 6d.
AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOU RN E.
By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENCPII’S PJCTURES.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
M
ELBO U R N E
GLACIARIUM.
ICE-SKATIN G.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.4 5.
yu E S T’S 1’ ALA C E. MELBOU RN E.
ihk best WEST'S PICTURES T he best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiif World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
J R CH & CAR ROLL
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
..pal centres^excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all .the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
REAL CALARASH PIPE for 3s.
hfd
"THE most fashionable and
1 popular Pipe, push-in
vulcanite stem, fire-proof
bowl lined with meerschaum
clay, the best and cool st s-noke.
Half the usual price, Only a small
stock and no more to be had at this
figure, therefore yon should order at once from
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 13th June, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY.
Tenders for Fresh Provisions, 1914-15.
TENDERS will be received, subject to
conditions of tendering, until twelve
noon on Friday, 2Gtli June, 1914, for the
supply of Fresh Provisions (Bread, Meat
(excepting Melbourne),• Vegetables, Fresh
Milk and Dairy Produce) to H.M.A. Ships
or Naval Establishments, at the Ports of
Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Brisbane, Port
Adelaide, Fremantle, Albany and Hobart,
during the period Ist July, 1914, to 30tli
June, 1915.
A preliminary deposit is not to accom-
pany tenders, but successful tenderers will
be required to lodge the following deposits
as security on Contract: —
Melbourne and Sydney. Other Ports.
printed form, which can be obtained at the
Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne, and at the Naval
Staff Office, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
Tenders are to be endorsed “Tender for
Fresh Provisions” on top left-hand corner of
the envelope, and addressed (if by post, pre-
paid) to the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne, or to the Director
of Navy Contracts, care District Naval
Officer, Sydney, Brisbane, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart.
The lowest or any tender will not neces-
sarily be accepted.
E. D. MILLEN,
Minister of State for Defence.
Government Notiees.
THE WORLD’S BEST
Calculating Machine,
The “Triumphator”
Novel and easier way of setting the figures,
which remain visible in special show-holes
above the setting levers.
Carrying over tens device in MULTIPLIER
and QUOTIENT, as well as in PRODUCT
show-holes.
Registers Multiplier and Quotient correctly
in large white figures.
Illustrated descriptive - Catalogue on applica-
tion to the Agents:—
A. P. GREENFIELD 8 CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best, material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin Eeat and pads, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, -deep-, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
FOR
COUGHS
fiViridq
es
Ufiuialoi
e
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA,
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
WELMAR
SHIRT
P.t 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers
- and —-
Outfitters
s^aji
if 112
UiSuPlHR
MEmflii i
m
r
Manufactured by
WELCH, MARGETSON & Co.
PTY. LTD.
WRITING to the agent
entrusted with the
purchasing of i the
stores for the forthcoming
Imperial Trans-Antarctic
Expedition Sir Ernest
Shackleton uses these
words: —
“The question
of the concen-
trated beef sup-
ply is most im-
portant—
it must be
Bovril.”
Men who trust
their lives to
their food take
no risks, and Sir
Ernest Shackle-
ton, planning
this expedition
with as intimate
a knowledge of
stores as of ice
and snow, has
recognised the
scientifically
proved value of
Bovril.
Health follows
regular use of
the
Montserrat
Lime Juice
Sauce
“I never
scratch.”
A turn of the head to
the left controls the flow
of ink, fast or slow,
according to your hand-
writing. A turn to the
right shuts off the ink,
and the Onoto becomes
a sealed tube, safe to
carry at any angle
And, above all, the
Onoto fills itself-in-
stantly—from any ink
supply. Nothing could
be less trouble than the
Onoto —the one really
satisfactory self-filling
It makes
you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers.
Miss Si»r/iicity.
fountain pen. V Make it your pen to day. You
can always pick a nib “to suit your hand writing.
Onoto
the pen—never scratches.
Price, 12/- and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores. booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. BE I.A RUK &*-eOrj Ltd.,
175, Bunhill Row, I,ondon f E.C.> or the Australasian
Representatives, Noßman Baker & Longhurst,
so York Street, Sydney.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.


Covered with Small Red Spots.
Hardly a Space Between. Used
Cuticura Soap and Ointment.
Skin in Splendid Condition,
Norway, N. S. W.—“My baby at about
the age of throe weeks became covered on
the face with small red spots. I thought it
was just one of the rashes that babies are
often subject to and would soon disappear,
but it seemed very obstinate, although I
kept on using home remedies for several
weeks, and instead of getting better it got
gradually worse. You could hardly see a
space between the spots. The baby’s whole
face was scarlet and very much disfigured
and I did not like to take her outside the
house.
“ Having read of the Cuticura Remedies
I sent for a sample tin of the Cuticura Oint-
ment and used it as directed with some Cuti-
cura Soap which I bought. The result was
so favorable that I bought some more of the
Cuticura Ointment, and after using the best
part of one tin the rash had almost disap-
peared, leaving just a few isolated spots,
which soon faded away, leaving the skin in
a splendid condition as it is now.’’ (Signed)
Mrs. s. Wilcox, September, 1912.
TO REMOVE DANDRUFF
Prevent dry, thin and falling hair, allay
itching and irritation, and promote the
growth and beauty of the hair, frequent
shampoos with Cuticura Soap, assisted by
occasional dressings with Cuticura Oint-
ment, afford a most effective and economical
treatment. Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment are sold throughout the world.
Liberal sample of each mailed free, with
32-p. Skin Eook. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To protljptly end the misery of consti-
pation toypid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail —that’s why
millions use them.
Vim,vigor,vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
result of their
use. You
need them.
hfd
Carters
Mttle•
IVER
PILLS.
Small rill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
2^
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easv to applv,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S iu.s.a.)
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
W'PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Fife Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Proiierties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. SW~AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker,. Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon., James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. • Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCorinick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
The Danger of
CATARRH
The danger of breathing
in germs is very real
and ever-present. The
peril is doubled if you
have Catarrh. The
moist, mucous - laden
surfaces most annoy-
ing in themselves —are
a most attractive breed-
ing place for the dan-
gerous, and often life-
destroying, germs of
Tonsilitis, Influenza and
Diphtheria, and, most
dreadful of all, CON-
SUMPTION !
Air-Passages of the Nose and Throat.
‘KAT-AR-AH " Treatment helps Nature put
them in good working order, in which condi-
tion it is impossible for Catarrh to exist.
You have Catarrh! YOU can tell that by the
uncomfortable stuffiness in the nose, the constant
sniff, sniff, caused by moist accumulations, the
difficulty of breathing, the constant necessity of
clearing the throat by “hawking,” and the frequent
use of the handkerchief to blow the nose. Or
you may suffer from frontal headaches, your
hearing be affected, have noises in the head,
sneeze frequently or awake with a heavy, tired
feeling. Do not live in danger of Catarrh
developing into something worse, such as Deaf-
ness, Asthma, Catarrh of the Stomach, or
Consumption.
Free to Sufferers.
I want all who are afflicted with Catarrh to try a sample bottle of
*' Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant at my expense. It is a synthetic com-
pound of certain valuable medicaments, and is supremely bene-
ficial in its influence on the mucous membrane. It has a
distinctly soothing, healing and aero-sanative effect, sufficient
to disintegrate and dislodge the slimy mucous accumulations.
“Kat-ar-ah” is first aid to Catarrh sufferers. Its healing
effects are simply marvellous. You can notice an improvement
immediately after beginning its use. It quickly takes up its
work of killing the disease germs, of minimising, and eventually
stopping, the discomforting mucous discharges in the nose and
throat —mucous that is finding its way into your stomach and
poisoning your system.
You are invited to send at once for a FREE TRIAL BOTTLE
of Kat-ar-ah ” Inhalant and a copy of my new and wonder-
fully-interesting Booklet, telling how to get rid of this terrible
scourge. Write to-day. Give your name and address clearly,
state whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, be sure to mention this paper
and enclose 3d. in stamps to help pay postage, etc.
HERBERT HERDER, 2 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Hunyadi Janos
As a remedy for Piles (otherwise Hemorrhoids), Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aperient Water is world-famous. It is supplied just as
Nature creates it and is speedy and certain in giving relief.
It relieves the conjested veins, creates soft, easy motions and acts
beneficially in every way.
Hunyadi Janos is also a well-known specific for such everyday com-
plaints as Constipation, Liver Troubles, Biliousness and ind gestion.
It is inexpensive and your chemist stocks it.
Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
Business. Robbery, etc
If a Sydney bailiff’s figures can be relied on, the
members of his ruinous profession have a less tumultu-
ous time than most people imagine. He was being
police-courted for being too rough with a lady in
the execution of his duty, and he asserted that not
only had he never been charged with roughness
before, but he himself had not been assaulted more
than once in 400 seizures. If that is so, any adven-
turous soul who is looking for excitement had better
try being a verger.
* * * *
“John P.”: Bung, of Maoriland, besides rushing up
the prices of accommodation to the extent of Is. 6d.
per day, is still groaning about the alleged expense
and general inconvenience of the six-day week re-
cently obtained by hotel employees. A Wellington
pub-keeper put it this way: “With only 25 people
in the house I have had to engage two extra hands,
flow many would I have to engage with 100 guests
in the house?” How about calling it eight? That
seems to be the answer to the awful problem. Now,
examine the case. The beer vendor has increased his
tariff Is. 6d. per day. That means 10s. 6d. per week
per guest; so 100 guests will bring in an additional
£52 10s. per week. With that sum the publican
has to find eight extra servants. The average hotel
slave gets about 30s. a week plus keep ; but say £2
per week and allow £1 for keep, which makes £3
per week the expense of each extra servant, or £24
for the eight. This seems to leave the boss with a
weekly profit of £2B 10s. out of the transaction. So
why all the noise and wild remarks about the tyranny
of labor? The fact is. Bung is excessively greedy,
but always tries to make someone else appear to be
responsible for his grab, while he himself poses as a
good fellow. Then he wonders why so many decent
people, who are not wowsers, and who like a glass of
beer occasionally, gladly seize the opportunity to hit
him on the jaw once in every three years.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Walshaw, the engineer to the Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) Council, has struck an idea which
promises to convert a bad smell into a good asset.
The idea ia to utilise sewer gas for producing elec-
tricity ; and it has succeeded well enough to save the
Parramatta Council £22 in wages and fuel in a fort-
night, even when utilised on a very small scale. Now
the Parramatta aldermen, who merely sniffed at first,
are wandering about with the air of men who have
done something to make them famous.
* * * *
Among them, the unimproved land-tax and closer-
settlement and scientific education are making
changes in unexpected places in Maoriland. There
was a time when old Wirewhiskers, running his
2000 sheep and anybody’s 10,000 rabbits on 5000
acres of tussock swamp, swore he couldn’t make a
living on a square yard less; and it mostly didn’t
look much of a living. Once tussock, always tussock,
he said. But just as Australia produced the stump-
.linnp plough to aeroplane over the mallee roots, so
Maoriland developed the plough that takes a cut of
anything up to 22 inches, and buries the tussock
under the broad furrow, where it soon turns itself
into manure. The swamp plough followed, rooting
out a ditch deeper than the other furrow is broad ;
and the frosts and the drain in a couple of years
sweeten the swamp for a crop of grass. There’s
many a turnip paddock in Maoriland that would
have been still a bog lying cold beneath a quilt of
tussock and toi-toi and flax if the land tax and other
devils hadn’t pricked the owners to more vigor. The
owners or the mortgagees—pretty often it has been
the mortgagees, who have lent so much that their only
hope of getting a decent security lies in inducing
the mortgagor to bog in and do a lot of improving.
* * * *
“U.S.”: Ehvood Mead, Victorian Water Supply
engineer, before returning to Melbourne, visited all
the principal irrigation schemes of Colorado, Utah,
Wyoming, Arizona and California, in company with
Victorian Emigration Agent Fricke. In 23 days they
covered 3000 miles, and. held meetings with the view
of enticing settlers to Australia at Denver, Salt Lake
City, Phoenix, San Bernadino, Cheyenne, Greeley, San
Diego, Los Angeles, Fresno, Visalia and Modeste.
The Denver Irrigation Congress, lately held, showed
that many American irrigation projects are in dire
straits; they are insolvent, their bonds are unsale-
able, and the schemes have poor public estimation.
Nevertheless, we have to regard the fact that
19,000,000 people are on territory formerly consid-
ered desert. The newer schemes are just in that
gloomy stage which followed the first venture of the
Chaffeys at Mildura and Renmark. Consequently
many U.S. settlers .want to get to Australia, but can’t
clear out. Here is some justification for the ner-
vousness of N.S.W, and Victorian settlers and an
impregnable argument for going forward with great
caution.
THE COUNTING-HOUSE CLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Chlorotic, sunken-eyed and shrunken-breasted,
With not a single one that’s past her ’teens,
This cursed office simply seems infested
With ladv-typists clicking their machines.
Outside the sun is shining.. ..
“What's that, Loutit?
The, boss was promised that account by ten?
It’s quarter to? All right. I'll sec about it !
By <lod, old chap, ij only ws were men!”
The sun is shining; somewhere near eleven
It gets too high and climbs right out of sight. ...
Ah, yes, that’s it. “I’ll quit the l’ort o’ Heaven,
An’ I’ll drum ’em down the Channel....
“That’s all right—
-1 said, I'd have it ready! Damn liis curses!
He. isn't Drake, for all his being the boss.”
A lilting movement in those Newbolt verses!
By Jove, what’s this I’ve debited to Loss!
Five hundred! Why, of course it goes to Protn,
There would have been a rumpus, no mistake!
That’s fixed it now; this 5 per cent, comes off it;
I wonder how this job would suit old Drake?
“I beg your pardon—can't make out my writing f
No fault of yours, my girl. It is a cow!
Here, let me see: lflb. of whiting
At If Si a pound — you've got it now?”
By Jove, I’ve not transferred this from the Journal,
Blogg’s store account. Ah, here, then, down you
go!
Those typistes, damn them, seem to click eternal,
“An’ dreamin’ arl the time o’ Plymouth Iloe!”
And so 1 am—but what’s the good of dreaming?
I’ve got to earn my fifty bob a week,
And so it’s scheming, scheming, scheming, scheming,
To feed the wife and kids and....
“Did I speak?
No, no Miss Brown —just totting an account up!
You don’t knoiv Drake, of Nombre Dios Bay-!
No, Loutit, haven't added the amount up,
But overdrawn a thousand, I should say!
The boss’ll shut him up, you reckon? Maybe,
1 ivouldn’t be surprised note if he did.”
By Jove, that list of things to get for baby,
I’ll have to lOU the Cash a quid !
I wonder was Drake married—now, I wonder;
I don’t suppose things like that mattered then.
But there’s the kids
Who’s that ? The boss ! Oh, thunder !
Yes, here it is—right on the stroke of ten!
MAORILAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.


The Recognised Leading House for ail
rSMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
H
[
G
H
o
Zto V;
m
G
R
A
D
E
•N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
h
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/0, 12/0, 14/0, 10/0, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in ease,
12/0, 14/0, 10/0, 18/0, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS. « u^ te lux E
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
r^m
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/C; 50 cigars, 22/G
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/G (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post,
free;.
»/
0/,
S^H)ll^33Mhl
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug Ol'
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“liOnus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches
H
A
N
D
Y
Hires*
m
5©
i-vi-
Mg
1
G
0
M
F
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9
„ ~ Keal Morocco .. 3/6
~ ~ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6
„ „ Gazelle ...... 5/-
„ „ Velvet Calf 6/6
fdh
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, G/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, sold rim, in
case 7/6. 8/G each.
SHAVING SETS
N
O
T
H
I
N
(i
riFji.
!• •• H l Tj*
N
m
■:
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving' rtets, comprising i renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—
-18/6 (post free).
R
E
RAZORS
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle •■ • • 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop" Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Hoad Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
6*
99
Socks and
Stockings.
To ensure having the best socks and stockings it is
possible to buy, insist on having There
are no hose in the world so Rood, because no
other have the all-wool qualities, the unshrinkableness
and the soft silkiness of
Perfectly knitted from the best Australasian wools,
they fit snugly and comfortably. They are dyed with
fast hygienic dyes, and they carry with them the
makers' guarantee to replace any pair that shrinks.
“Sct&OrQ Socks and Stockings are made
in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock them insist upon his gelling them
for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
4C)
at
JTOix
a/
Fairbanks-morse
MARINE ENGINES
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start easily, run smoothly, develop full rated
power. Simple, compact. All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed Engines, 314
to 24 H.P. Slovv-speed Engines, 714
to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
Distillate. Stationary and Portable sizes,
2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 3939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple,
compact. Two sizes. Will operate any
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
AGENTS—
C. H. Relph, Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland.
F.
Type “K”
7*h.p.
Mai loch Bros.,
• Perth, W.A.
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
HOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Fiuk.ni), is 6d. Nkd Donnelly’s Art
ok Boxing, new' enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All . Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiik
Horsk., Is. Ventriloquism Madk. Easv, Is. Up-to*
Datk. Comic Rk.citkr, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/0.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures ok a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, bv Hubert. Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s (id. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price’ls: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, ild. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiik. Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, as. Nor Guilty (Blatcn-
ford), 9d. The Art ok Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
Rritish, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases ok Horses,
is 3d Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering Is 2d Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
10s fid ’ AUSTRALIAN PASTRYCOOK S GUIDE, Is 6d-.
■
I
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PEAT'S HOME TALK."
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain language, at'nou-
sanci questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting-their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA' address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~m
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING GAUDS- LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. GAMBLERS’ SECRETS AND HOW TO
Win at Cards, is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. ■ How to Plav Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules tor ail Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Tiik Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is: post
Is ‘id. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ' fid.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers ok Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee's Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AII these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. gJCF'Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
OXIiY A SMALL IDEA OE AIY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Hake Up, Illustrated Guide to tire Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, gerfuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Or. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court ok England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Sd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassk’s Advice to a
Wike, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfaddf.n’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruitspp Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bopnd, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Mo tors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universai,
ASSISTANT AND COMPLETE MECHANIC, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets ok Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age ok Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’


Protects from Winter's Ills.
OF all the new discoveries in medical science, the most remarkable in
recent years is one which has proved invaluable to thousands of
people, and which is rapidly taking the place of all other remedies
for the cure of Coughs and Colds. The preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Coughs and Colds, and it is a scientific compound of
great merit. It is most healing to the lungs and throat, and relieves the
V
A Famous
New Zealand
Hinycr.
cough or cold in a remarkably
short time, leaving no bad after
effects. As it contains no poisons
of any kind, it is a perfectly safe
remedy for children, and is par-
ticularly good for croup and
whooning cough. The dose is
small, and it is pleasant to take.
8 Grange Street,
Dunedin.
Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd.
Dear Sirs, —Everyone knows
how dreadful the Winters are over
here. Thanks to Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, my singing voice
does not suffer from the many
colds one catches. I have no hesi-
tation in recommending it to
young singers. It is a perfect
throat soother and tonic combined.
Wishing Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery the continued success it
deserves,
Believe me, you/s faithfully,
(Sgd.) ELENA NEWCOMB-HALL.
Winter is now at hand, and with its arrival we are liable to sudden chills
and colds. The time for action is upon the appearance of the first symptoms,
when you should at once take Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery in teaspoonful doses
every three hours, with an additional dose at bedtime, when you will at once
experience a wonderful soothing effect upon the mucous membranes, easing the
throat and chest, thus enabling you to enjoy a good nights rest. Dr. Sheldons New
Discovery stops the cough and cold, and prevents any serious complications.
It is unequalled for influenza and bronchitis, and is infallible for croup
or whooping-cough, for, while it is most powerful in its action, jet it can he
administered to the smallest child with the same safety as to the full-giown
adult. Obtainable everywhere at 1/6 and 3/-.
D? Sheldons
SdlO
• # a n v
sttono
w
mr
i
11
The Great , Harmless Pain-Killer,
UNTIL the advent of Kephaldol there
had been no certain and reliable remedy
for the lumbago sufferer. Those afflicted
know the agony that this complaint can cause
and are only too well acquainted with the
Lumbag'o
violent symptoms of
which it is charac-
teristic stiffening
of the back —impossibility of making the
slightest movement without absolute agony, en-
forced rest and immobility, etc.
To-day there is no need to continue suffering any
longer. Keplialdol will cure you, positively and
quickly. It relieves almost instantaneously, ana
though mild in action is wonderfully quick in results.
This marvellous remedy has the power of acting on
the lumbar nerves at the exact source of the evil. A
couple of doses will give prompt relief, and the remedy
continued will entirely eradicate the symptoms. In
many of the worst cases a few days have been sufficient
to entirely rid the patient of the complaint.
Kephaldol is safe to take in large
or small doses. It does not de-
press the heart nor affect it in any
injurious manner. It is guaran-
teed under the Pure Food Laws of
N.S.W., and is endorsed by thou-
sands of doctors, and used by all
the leading Continental and British
hospitals. Remember it cannot
injure those who use it.
KEPHALDOL is sold by all.
Chemists and Storekeepers in
tubes—l/6 and 3/6.
If any difficulty is experienced in
procuring a supply locally, send
postal note or stamps to value of
tube desired , and same icill be sent
by return post prepaid.
t i Aj)
7%
MX!
What the BRITISH
DOCTORS say of its
“ I have tried three tablets of Kephaldol in a
troublesome case of Lumbago, and got relief
very soon after.”—Dr. T. Foley, Youghal.
“ I have pleasure in stating that Kephaldol
was tried in a case of Lumbago with a rapidly
beneficial result.”
—Dr. J. Johnson, Stoke-on-Trent.
“ i beg to report most brilliant results from
Kephaldol in case of (1) Sciatica and (2)
Lumbago.”—Dr. R. Buttle, Accrington.
12 TABLETS <5 Crams # §j=f
Dr
Stohrs
Kephatdo!
QUICK (m
INfUJf)|M, WLIkAT.'JJM U;MftACO.VWK4PAIMU
NQISTOUTIO«,n:VtB>.AtLSDIiW Nfwv».PAiHi
PRICE 16
KEPFIALDOL CO., 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
KL 4804
Concerning an Amorous Devil
and Two Gallons of Beer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LITTLE web of silver round the moon,
An elfin light upon the land and river.
And it was good to simply sit and
spoon
While the small breezes made the waters
shiver;
The sky was an inverted cup, and we
Were like twin sugar in the world’s large tea.
Her hair was like the blackness set afloat
By sloping funnels on the midnight ocean,
When blackest coal re-fills the furnace throat
To give the throbbing screw its sickly motion.
In splendid coils of darkness loosely bound
It wrapped her upper beauty softly round.
•
Her eyes that shone so very close to mine
Seemed in the moonlight wells of dark brown
wonder,
Beaded with joy, as if life turned to wine
Were bottled those soft velvet capsules
under;
Iler lips were flame; I never saw so red
A gate of laughter in so brown a head.
From these slight statements you will un-
derstand
That things were going very well and
sweetly:
I held the small brown wonder of her hand,
My arm was fitted to her waist completely.
And when she spoke her whispered accents
fell
As when a bee’s wing shakes a blossom bell.
A murmur of delight when built so small
Will travel but a very little distance.
And so I crept still closer at the call
Of those red lips that hinted no resistance,
And lest one syllable my soul should miss
I gathered them to silence in a kiss.
A little web of silver in the sky
Got twisted round the moon with happy
laughter;
In fact, she seemed to wink a large bright
eye,
As if some old and ribald star had chaffed
her
With sitting calmly there to glow and shine
While Clara’s lips and soul were mixed with
mine.
Perhaps that was the reason why he came.
We heard the leaves and brushes round us
shaking;
Some little spurts of ornamental flame
The pattern on his overcoat seemed baking;
His trousers were composed of fire and
smoke,
And all his manner of hot sulphur spoke.
lie was a young green devil parched and
dry,
A sportive wight whose countenance was
plastic;
The heat was melting half his large right
eye,
And what he said was meant to be sar-
castic.
“A pleasant night for sitting out,” he said,
“When girls and other birds should be in
bed.”
I shifted half my mouth from Clara’s lips
And answered him in syllables disdainful :
“If pleasure such as ours your sour soul pips,
And moonlit happiness to you is painful.
We can excuse you from attendance here.
Your flames are not required, so kindly
clear.”
He laughed a mirthless laugh, as devils do.
“I dare say you could manage well without:
me.
Three are perhaps less company than two:
Yet scarce I think that pleasant maid would
flout me
If I should offer to remain with her
While you yourself grew somewhat scarcer,
sir.”
His insolence quite took my breath away,
While Clara looked at him with sideiong
glances.
I felt as one who lifts a truss of hay
Upon the top of which a zebra dances,
Or anything grotesque and out of place
That has to act in such a curious case.
Here was I sitting by the pleasant sea,
A nice girl’s hair my cheek and neck caress-
ing,
While a green devil standing close to me
Gave me an invitation, kind and pressing,
To fade away into the evening dim
And leave my dimpled maiden’s smile to
him.
And what was worse, my own especial pearl,
Whom I had even then but half stopped
kissing—
Yes, this dear bunch of brown and close-held
girl
Appeared herself as if she wished me miss-
ing.
In fact, she seemed to tacitly agree
With all that easy devil said to me.
T tore my left arm from her yielding waist.
I dragged my waistcoat from her heaving
bosom.
I sprang erect as one who moves in haste,
With rising anger flushed, intent to do some
Large and injurious thing without the law
To his opponent’s insolence of jaw.
He smiled. I struck with suddenness and
might.
He reeled not from the wallop that I landed.
I leaped away in horror and affright;
My good left hand was blistered, scorched
and branded,
While the elastic flame that made his face
Yv as merely knocked three inches out of
place.
I fled afar from that unequal scrap,
Chased through the bushes by his fiendish
laughter.
If Clara really liked the devil chap,
M hat was the odds ? My speed was great,
but after
M> first fast sprint I faced about and turned
4o sec exactly where his sulphur burned.
There, neath the trees, upon the very spot
Where one short moment since I had been
sitting,
That pale, green person, insolent and hot,
His fiery arm round Clara’s waist was fit-
ting.
Then ail my anger in me rose once more
And at the inside of mv waistcoat tore.
I went with haste to one bright pub I knew.
I vowed that devil wight should learn to fear
me.
A damsel from the fount two gallons drew
Of amber liquid fraught with power to cheer
me;
If love was- fickle, beer could still atone
For pleasures lost to him who walked alone.
A little web of silver round the moon,
An elfin light upon the land and river,
And it was good for thoee who sat to spoon
While the small breezes made the waters
quiver;
The sky was an inverted cup and he
Felt like stirred sugar in the world’s large
tea.
Little they guessed that through the bushes
crept
A quantity of beer grown quite remorseless;
The little birds among the branches slept,
The blinking of the stars was pale and force-
less,
But I . was eager swiftly to redeem
My fallen credit by. a simple scheme.
Behind them, like ft shadow in the night
That through the trees had very softly
drifted,
I stood with one huge measure of delight
Above them in my unscorched right hand
lifted.
Then, with a long and glad triumphant shout,
I poured the beer and put the devil out!
N.S.W.
CUESE O’ MOSES.
Things I Think I Did.
THE HOUSE DIVIDED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UNSHINE on a hummocky plain,
flanked far off with concentric moun-
tains of limestone and volcanic rock,
hairy sheep and hairier goats and a few
gardens on the skyline, made by the men
who were before the other men’s time —
growing the vine, the fig, the olive, the
mulberry and corn. Most of these Tories
of 4000 years ago were still pastoralists.
The lazy life of the shepherd and the em-
bezzlement of milk from slie-goats suited
their natures more than driving wooden
ploughs through the land, destined to be so
fertile once water was brought to it.
.They loafed there —the unfrequent shep-
herd and his goats pretending to be sheep—■
on the big sunlit yellow plain, with its blue
shadows and its steep, high vault of lucent
indigo.
This is the Plain of Shinar a few thou-
sand years ago, six miles south-east of the
place where Babylon was to be built.
Birs-Nimroud is a great platform of fire-
baked flat bricks so cemented that, when a
brick falls off, it takes 2000 more bricks
with it. It is—in 1913—only 60ft. high on
one side and 200 ft. on the other, but the
distance around the base of it is 2400 ft.,
and 4000 years ago, when first I saw it, it
had a superstructure to fit that noble ground
plan witn honor. Six miles north-west was
the place where the Babylonians were yet
to be sorry they ever took the Jews into
captivity, and the Jews were to sit down
by the waters and weep, to make their con-
querors think tney didn't like it. Six miles
north-west of me, also, Esther was to play
Miss Modesty to ensnare Ahasuerus and
make a job for that snufflebusting ruffian
Mordecai, and hang that good watchdog
Hainan, who knew his job and tried to
keep slaves in their places.
Here, according to a statement made to
me by a shepherd clothed in an insanitary
quilt of semi-bald goatskins bequeathed to
him by his father, who had had it left to
him by his grandfather, was the plain of
Shinar, and here was Birs-Nimroud, the
alleged remains of the Tower of Babel fifty
years after that ambitious structure had
been destroyed—destroyed because lightning-
rods had yet to wait a few thousands of
years before they could get themselves in-
vented. That was my belief up to that
time. And I was wrong.
It’s a disquieting thing to be suddenly
thrown back 4000 years and to remember
all about Parramatta and Chicago and
Coolgardie and Paris and London and Borne
and the Astrolabe Plateau, and to know
words like ’’absolutely” and “obsession” and
“sarcoma” and yet to find yourself tripping
over “Padan-Aram” and “Jebusite.” There’s
no excuse for falling down on a word like
“Macpelah.” because that’s Scotch enough
for anybody. Anyhow we sat there —old
Tubal Dodanim of the goatskin suit which
had not been passed by the Board of Health,
and myself, and I tried to feel that I was
4000 years or so younger than I am. and to
meet this mere boy of 250 years on common
ground.
“And you say these are the ruins of the
Tower of Babel?”
“I say that peradventure the Sons of
Men shall speak thus of it, yet it shall not
be sooth.”
“It’s not true, then?”
“As thy soul liveth it is not so. The
words of twisted tongues shall say that this
Tower fell by fire from Heaven : but that
the fire came down to confound the lan-
guages of the earth hath no health in it.”
“It always struck me that way. What-
ever it was that caused all this difference
of languages made the peoples of the earth
so afraid of one another that they invented
battle, and we’ve had four thousand years
of war as the result of it.”
The insanitary youth looked at me. “Thou
speakest strange things, mv father, and I
am mean of understanding.”
< “I wish you wouldn’t call me your father.
I’m talked about more than enough already,
and I’ve a long while to live. And I wish
you wouldn’t talk like a Bevivalist; you’ll
be saying ‘vouchsafed’ next.”
“It was. even now upon my lips, my
father.”
(Continued on next page.)


BENT BACKS
" Every PictuV&
Tells a Story "
3
vs
Why Are They Bent?
Not always on account of age, for
many old people have straight backs
—and many young people have bent
backs. They are bent with the pains
of kidney disease, lumbago —uric
acid in the muscles of the loins, con-
gestion of the kidneys —the pains
that make the young feel old, and
the old feeble and shaky.
Rest in bed may ease a bad back,
but it cannot cure it. Only a medi-
cine that reaches the cause can do
that. Doan's Backache Kidney Pills
are solely for weak and ailing kid-
neys. They help the kidneys to
throw off uric acid poison, which is
the cause not only of backache and
lumbago, but of gravel, stone, rheu-
matism, dizzy attacks, irregular
heart, and that heavy, drowsy feel-
ing. Doan’s Pills regulate the
urinary system like ordinary medi-
cines regulate the bowels; they re-
lease the accumulated water in
dropsy, and relieve bladder weak-
ness, which is so common in children
and the aged.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
pure; and cannot injure the most
delicate patient.
BE SURE YOU GET DOAN’S.
Sydney Man's Lasting
Care of Backache.
“SUFFERED FOR YEARS.”
Mrs. W. Whitbread, EUerslio, 389
Darling Street, Balmain, says: “About
11 years ago my husband suffered a lot
from backache. The pains were awful;
in fact, he was so bad that he was unable
to do work of any kind. It was impos-
sible for him to stand up straight, and
he could hardly walk, as every movement
increased his suffering. He tried several
different remedies, and was also treated
by a doctor, but nothing gave him any
permanent relief. At last lie heard of a
cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
so he sent for a bottle, at once, and com-
menced taking them according to the
directions. After a few doses he felt a
little better, and when he had finished a
course of these pills he was quite cured,
all signs of backache having left him
entirely. This medicine not only cured
my husband of backache, but improved
his general health,, and strengthened his
kidneys to such an extent that, although
10 years have elapsed since his cure he
is still free of every ache and pain.”
Two years later. Mrs. Whitbread says:
“My husband is still well, and has not
suffered with his back since Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills cured him 12 years
ago.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Stores at
2/9 per bottle, or posted by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
CURES BY DOAN’S 01 NTH ENT.
PILES.
Mr. James Higgins, 21 Terry Street,
Surry Hills, Sydney, says: “Some years
ago I suffered a lot from itching piles,
the irritation being very trying, particu-
larly so at night and during the hot
weather. A friend advised me to try
Doan's Ointment, and, knowing how good
Doan’s Kidney Pills were, I got a pot at
once, and it proved a blessing. After a
few applications I got relief, and as I
continued applying the remedy the im-
provement was maintained, until finally
the piles completely disappeared. Five
years have elapsed since I used Doan’s
Ointment, and I have had no return of
the ailment all that time. I cannot speak
too highly of Doan’s Ointment, and re-
commend it to other sufferers.”
ECZEMA.
Mrs. Horwitz. 75 Pitt Street, Redfern,
Sydney, says: “I sent for a pot of Doan’s
Ointment, and used it for eczema on my
little girl’s forehead. The rash covered
the brow completely, and it was round the
eye as well. The itching was frightful,
making her very fretful, and kept her
from sleeping, which made it hard on all
of us. I had used several preparations
previous to getting Doan’s Ointment, but
none of them gave more than passing
relief. I am pleased to tell you that
Doan’s Ointment cured her completely.
We have since used it on another little
girl, with equally good results. Doan’s
Ointment is splendid, and I advise its use
in all itching skin diseases. It gave in-
stantaneous relief, and healed ranidly.
and there has been no return of the
trouble since, a period of 10 years.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by ail Chemists and Stores
at 219 per pot, or posted free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Well, don’t let it get any further. Speak
as you would speak if you were telling me
this yarn—that is, story—in the sixtietli
century, or as the Christians will call it,
then, the twentieth.”
“Thou hast spoken of strange things, my
father. Shall the world last so long? Yes?
Truly am I glad—being scourged as an
unbeliever, last anniversary of the Deluge,
for that I said the world should endure till
all the dust of it had been used as the bodies
of men.”
“That’s a new idea, anyway. Go on,
Tubal Dodanim—speak your mind. We’re
all friends here.”
“Truly it is good to know that tire world
shall outlast man. It is the fear of death
that makes men cruel. The family fights
within itself because it sayeth: ‘Next year
I shall be married. I shall have done with
my brothers and sisters. Why, then, should
I be good unto them seeing that in a year
we shall be strangers, and, if there be pro-
perty to divide, even enemies?’ For thfe
sister that hath children to her body will
not love her brother to drink out of the
same cup ; and women harden the hearts of
men. So then the fear of death also—-the
belief in the ending of the world crackling
like a dead leaf in a furnace—makes man
careless of his life, because he thinks of the
earth not as a lasting habitation for his
race. Yet so long shall it endure that man
cannot measure the life of it—not even
Gibon the Aradito, and he. oh my father,
counteth up to five with potsherds and with
tiles.”
“That’s right, Tube! You’ve got it right!
Now about Babel, which means, or will mean
four thousand years hence —‘a confusion of
tongues.’ ”
“No! Babel means the Gate of God. It
was after this manner—peradventure my
lord hath come from afar off?”
“I really wish you wouldn’t talk like a
Revivalist, Tube. You know you speak
like that more because the translators will
report you so than for any other reason.
Get down to it, old lad, and we’ll have the
story quicker.”
“In the vernacular, my father—and I call
thee my father not again since thou likest
it not.”
“You were, always a gentleman. Tube.
Now start with Shorn, Ham and Japheth,
and speak in the vulgar tongue.”
“My father, it was the navigation of the
ark that ruined Noah. Before that he had
been a decent man enough. After the flood
he went around talking to the I neighbors
(for there were thousands who got away to
high ground), bragging of his foresight and
drinking his new wine. He died, and the
three sons departed up the country. Ham’s
eldest son was Cush, and his sons, beside
Nimrod, were great men, and they became
kings about Sidon and Gerar, kings and
priests.”
“Canons off the Cush.”
“I know it not. All through this country
there were Jebusites, Canaanites. Amorites,
Girgaskites, Ilivites, Arkites, Simites, Arva-
dites”
“Spare me.”
“Temarites, Hamatliites, Gomerites,
Javanites, Tirasites”
“Mostly parasites. Take ’em as read.”
“Elamites, Asshurites, Aramites, Misrai-
mites, TJzites, Eberites and others like to
blades of grass—and they were of one fam-
ily and fought heartily one with the other.”
“Yes. Mrs. Cloony had been a Miss
Duffy, and the Duffys and the Cloonys
used to bite each other. Beg pardon ! I’m
talking of four thousand years ahead ! Go
on !”
“Rarely did a sect permit another sect to-
live near them, but, two such mixed families
were 1 here —that is where one house stood.
The mother was a Pelegite. Peleg’s brother
was .Toktan, and the father of the family
was descended from .Toktan. His name was
Erech. Look a hundred cubits to the west
and you will see another such grassy swell-
ing and two hummocks. That was the
house of Calpeh. who was descended from
Ham by Ham’s second son Phut —the
brother of Cush.”
“Marvellous names ! Yes.”
“Erech and his wife were descendants of
Shem. Calpeh and his wife were descended
from Ham. Calpeh himself from Phut and
Mrs. Calpeh from Cush. This tower had
been built long before for a granary, but
something happened to the wheat”
“Rust was it?”
“I know not, but something happened,
and the land was foul and nothing was left
but the tower and the houses. The two
families owned the land about, and the
boundary ran through the tower, so that
each family owned half of it. The families
fought its members within, and each family
fought the other without. They neither
understood nor tried to understand each
other, and the houses fell.”
“What caused them not to understand
each other?”
“Vanity.”
“Human nature.”
“I know it not. In Erech’s house there
was fighting always, and the many children
copied the elders and there was fighting
the more. Mrs. Erech wanted to spend
their holidays with her folk at Meshar, and
Erech wanted to stop with his people at
Sephar, and then if was war, she swearing
that Peleg was IT; and he yelling that
.Toktan could beat Peleg one hand kneeling.
Then the children would join in. She would
pick out a son who was like her and tell him
he came of the good old Peleg stock and
there wasn’t a dirty drop of Joktan blood
in him; and Erech would kiss his favorite
daughter and say she had the Joktan brains
and that all the Pelegites were Then
Mrs. Erech would cry at her husband : ‘Go
you to Kirjath. the Jebusite woman you
took to the chariot races.’ And Erech would
say: ‘What about Lasha the Arvadite, and
the letter he wrote to you upon a brick?’
And then the battle began. The forty-two
children most of them grown men and
women, would join in. and one would hear
screams of ‘Peleg’ and ‘.Toktan’ until they
were all fighting and had not the breath to
talk.” t „
“It sounds quite modern.
“Over in Calpeh’s house it was the same
—the same insults about a Moabitish woman
and a man from Gerar. the same rec-wnition
of all the virtues in Cush and all the vices
in Phut, and of Phut as perfection and Cush
as a malefactor. It sounded weird then when
the two families were fighting and you stood
between the two houses. It was like goats
learning to talk. There were noises like
mad butchers beating meat.”
“We’ll manage it better in the sixtieth
century. We’ll have police then.”
“I know it not. However, this could only
end one way. Divide a house with a saw,
and the halves of the house shall fall into
the east and into the west; split the goat-
skins at the ridge-pole of the tent, and they
fall away to the north and to the south, and
leave the naked frame. The family of Erech
and the family of Calpeh, divided by hatred
within, were held together only by the hatred
without. The storm burst when a son of
Calpeh asked for a daughter of Erech, and
Mrs. Calpeh scratched Mrs. Erech with her
nails. Then, when the fights at home were
finished, the two families fought each other
on me boundary line. They slept little, for
ever a foe was at the door; cruelty became a
lust, quarrelling a passion; they worked not
at all, and lived on hatred more than bread.
If the house of Calpeh were at peace from
weariness the house of Erech was in storm ;
if the house of Erech slept, the house of
Calpeh raged ; and if both families wearied
of the strife within, of one accord the battle
began in the shadow of the tower. They had
never used the tower because of its large-
ness, but now they found use for it, fighting
like chained dogs, only because they were
nigh one unto the other.”
"The jealousy of proximity.”
“I know it not; but the spirit of them I
know. They fought within the tower at the
boundary line, and fought in the doorway,
for each owned half the portal. And then,
neither being beaten, each family took its
own way of carrying on the war. Each made
a partition of bushes, ten times the height of
a man, across the width of the tower; and
behind the curtain of the bushes each family
had its will. Then when one family slept,
with the house barricaded against the other,
that other collected great stores of wood and
bushes and built a great heap within; and
the other did the like. And when the tower
was full of wood —see how upon the plains
there is nor tree nor twig—there was a
great fight at the tower portal, and the Cal-
pehs slew the Erechs, excepting only the
heads of the families, the daughter of Peleg
and the daughter of Cush, who were the
wives of EreHi and of Calpeh ; and Erech,
the son of Joktan ; and Calpeh. the son of
Phut. Erech and his wife took the bodies of
the sons and daughters of Calpeh and threw
them on the pile of wood on Erech’s part of
the tower; and Calpeh and his wife took the
bodies of the sons and daughters of Erech
and threw them on the wood in Calpeh’s part
of the tower; and Erech and Calpeh fired
the tower. Then, while the fire roared in
that great chimney they fought in the light
of it, and Calpeh and his wife killed Erech
and his wife and threw their bodies into the
fire. Of all these people Calpeh alone lived
to tell the tale of the storm of wind and
rain that fell upon the tower in hurricane
and in water spouts and torrents when it
was at red heat: and the vapor that arose
when the rain fell on the hot walls brake
the mortar, and the tower split and fell into
two parts—one east, one west —the House
Divided. The eastern part of the tower
fell upon the house of Erech and blotted it
utterly, and the western part upon the house
of Calpeh and buried it as in a grave. And
this we learned of Calpeh.”
“But what of Calpeh’s wife?”
“This! When they had killed Erech and
the wife of Erech they watched them burn
from a distance out of the heat of the fire
and laughed. And when they had wearied
of laughing Calpeh thought of his dead sons
and said: “O my sons! Had ye been
born of a mother of the seed of Phut ye
had killed all these and saved thyselves
alive!’ ”
“Bad taste —that was !”
“I know not. But Calpeh’s wife stretched
forth her arms to the ashes of her children
and cried in her grief: ‘O my children—
had ye been fathered by a son of Cush
—truly had ye outlived this night of
blood —truly out-stared the frowning brows
of death.’ ”
“I see! So then they were at it again?”
“Calpeh commanded his wife to silence as
befits a woman, and yet is more rare than
ice at a summer noon. But she was stiff-
necked as a woman and would not, and
cried out still upon the sons of Phut. ‘A
murrain on thee!’ said Calpeh, very gently
for a man of such temper; ‘a murrain on
thee and on the house of Cush.’ Then must
she turn upon him with her nails. They
cried ‘Cush’ and ‘Phut’ at.each other, and
then fell to fervent and very earnest fight-
ing. At last, Calpeh leaned heavily upon
his club and breathed with shortness, and
Calpeh’s wife lay very still. Then came the
storm, and the tower cracked in the water-
smoke and fell, and the two divided houses
were wrecked by the House Divided. Yet.
O my father! there was not one Tower of
Babel but two, the House of Erech and the
House of Calpeh. and for that they were
divided, they fell.”
He stopped suddenly and said: “Now a
murrain on her !”
“What’s the matter, Tube?” I asked
kindly, for I had come to greatly admire
the man. I followed his glance to midway
on the nlain, w'hose blue shadows were grey-
ing in the light of the westering sun.
“That wife oi mine has let the goats
wander,” he said. “I’ll give her the father
of all beatings. Though I must not. be hard
on .her. What can a man expect if he
marines an Amorite?”
“Most men do—till the honeymoon’s past
and gone.”
“I know not! I must go. A murrain on
the Amorites —I will beat most grievouslv
that daughter of Ham.”
The plain darkened, dead black like
asphalt—then the sunlight came and
I heard voices : —-
“Cloony! you big. flat-footed fool. Oh.
me that was a Duffy too!”
“Duffy, is it? Yer old man was a dhirty
Pintridge Sthockade loifer.”
Thwack! thwack! and the sound of mad*
butchers beating meat again.
Old as the rivers—everlasting as the hills
—the Tower of Babel, and the House
Divided that must fall!
I wonder how much longer Tubal Doda-
min wore his great-grandfather’s goatskins
before he died. ,;T j
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


the
WESTINGHOUSE CROSS
OIL ENGINE
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
a
i vn
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention —
l_lt uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 Its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct-
-5— No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULI PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brai e Company of Australasia Ltd-,
GEORGE STREE'I,
Queensland Agents: Holme
Hew Zealand Agents: Philip
CONCORD WEST,
-3! & Church, Brisbane-
'S & Pike, Wellington.
N.S.W.
The
ord of the
TiRLiNG Boiler
ISHOWS-
HIGHEST evaporation per sq. ft. of heating surface.
HIGHEST efficiency.
LOWEST coal costs. LOWEST maintenance costs.
40 Municipal undertakings use STIRLING BOILERS. Average
tube renewals *295 tubes 'per boiler per annum. Average
efficiency of 17 boiler tests in electricity stations was 79 %.
REPEAT ORDERS RECEIVED FROM 220 SATISFIED USERS.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go.
'MITED,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works— Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
RUMELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
lORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
-1 mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
REMINGTON
k UMC
Re
iße&rd
Mad©
Witht
unition
ers every-
where
33 Consecutive Bull's-eyes at 1100 Yards
This world’s record was made by Major P. W.
Richardson at the 1913 Bisley Matches, shooting
Remington-UMC American service ammunition.
We present it as an evidence of improved ammu*
nition, enabling a shooter to bring out the best that
is in him. You, too, can better your shooting record
by insisting that your dealer give you Remington-
UMC cartridges for your pistol, revolver or rifle.
D D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 586 Melbourne
i
for the red ball
every box you buy
THE LONE HAND
everything
6d.
THE MEDICINE TO BE RELIED ON
is a term which tersely expresses the reputation that has been
achieved by Beecham’s Pills. For upwards of sixty years they have
been highly appreciated by all classes of the community. Multitudes
of men and women in every walk of life ungrudgingly acknowledge
them to be a really reliable remedy for disorders of the stomach, liver,
kidneys and bowels. A vegetable preparation skilfully compounded
of the finest ingredients, Beecham’s Pills are uniform in standard and
their beneficial effects are invariable. They strengthen the stomach,
regulate the action of the liver, eliminate impurities from the blood
and keep the bowels properly regulated. Health and happiness,
vivacity and vitality, a clear head and a good appetite attend those
who, from time to time, take
bkchams
PtU5
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
m
W*c£ssm pr
m
SAWMILLERS,
Builders & Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value tor your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy middleman’s commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
THE
voßtoomt
IF it were not for light, downy
beards many a razor would have
no market.
The tough beard or the tender skin
is the real shaving test —and the
Gillette is the one razor that meets that test
every day with millions of satisfied users.
Three minutes is all the time you need for a velvet-smooth
Gillette shave. No strops to fuss with—no waste of time—no
bother. No pulling or scraping or sore, touchy face.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
dILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
rmiSiE
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
■i.
the famhybeverage
0
n
§>
* j
□
1C
'lff
/
r r
"•Vv
s?*
■■
\
~-r
€v
FRICTION
CLUTCHES THAT
THE "WATERLOO”
GUARANTEED- »y
PATENTEE* « n( | MAKERS
Sydney Machine Co.
BOTANY ROAD, WATERLOO,.
»iaw South Wales.
%
If HAS
Medicinal
Virtues
The
Importance
of
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases is not realised rve-ii-
care is shown in the selection of a steam plantto ensure the greatelt economy
sulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of vonr
onfL 1 ? -6 ’ m . certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation . The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fuliy borne out by actuai test, and, further, by enormous
. repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has heen used once Newall’s have been tried.
and White Bay Power Houses are insulated throughout with
S Coverings,_ and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ou £ claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
nwfJ i^ ras lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples. e WUI De
N EWALL’S
MAGNESIA SECTIOMAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
f. WILDRIDGE 8 SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Welli
ms
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
"ZT^ZeivaZL”T 9ht ‘T’ Cast ,r ° n and Stee ' ”»**’ B ° nd «’ VaivesMmps, Pluming,
BolZ H + _ SCOOP * T ° r c,eanln 9 Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Castings, Forgings ,
o ts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work.
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, FoOtscray, Victoria.
fd
A Thoroughly Tested Machine
/ VV;
The Barnes 20" All Geared Drill
HIGH-SPEED DRILLING MACHINE possesses many advantages <sver the ordinary cone belt-
Belts IT HAS fight N ° WaSte ° f time th *'ough sli PP in S> Shifting or Replacing Speed and Feed
• EIGHT GEARED SPEED CHANGES AND EIGHT GEARED POWER FEEDS. All controlled by a
Lever conveniently reached from front of Machine. a
It all means increased output, and makes the Drill indispensable to the Busy Shop
Write (or particulars ot our Stock of Drills. A large and varied Stock, from Small Baud Drills to High-speed Badials.
PARKE 8 LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers <& Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
“CHERSEN ROCK DRILLS
The Fastest of all Rock
Drills and Simplest in
Construction.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
i
The LOWEST Air Con-
sumption per ft. Drilled.
STOCKS HELD AT SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, PERTH.
N. GUTHRIDGE LU-
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
W.A. Agents! CHAS. ATKINS dX CO. LTD., Perth and Kalgoorlie.
