

MELLOWED BY AGE
R. Q. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— . , .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill "Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty: AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5 W MONT DE PIETE D SI C? HR
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 C&stlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
02 IM
ECOBA.R.X,
— uta —
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY,
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
rtß.;
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
iTTniu
ui
1
i
u
“PINEAPPLE
& BACON
CHUBB'S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
organs.
HANSENS
J
M
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
■
■
■
A
: ' - • ; ••' , M«v'
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE silvertown RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
M
BENSDORPS
1
COCOA
SUPERIOR
everyway;
w
H
I
T
E
E
M
1
R
O
O
F
S
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
D. S, EVANS, Australasian Manager.
Challis House, Sydney. Agents Everywhere.
It Pays to Roof with White
ialthoid for these Reasons
White Malthoid, being Asbestos Coated, is proof against fire and
extremes of temperature. It keeps your house warmer in winter and
cooler in summer. It lends itself to artistic treatment—it gives an
air of distinction to any residence —and gives the architect an oppor-
tunity to give you a Home to he proud of. Would you like Samples
and Booklets? We’ll gladly send them.
MB
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD L ABEL
WHITE LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
S. V. O :
QUEEN Of STATES
r'unirc?
BacoFT^JaMs
Telegraphic Address-BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDON SPA
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Redfern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1791.]
[Thursday, June 11, 1914.
Registered.at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS
(Postages shown
in parentheses .)
Foster Fraser’s The Amazing Argentine, illus.,
3/6 (3d.).
Slater’s A Stevenson Bibliography. 3/- (2d.).
Macdonagh’s The Speaker of the House, 12/6
(4d.).
Gray: Reminiscences of India and North
Queensland, 1857-1912, 9/- (3d.).
Hopkins s The Romance of Fraud, 7/6 (4d.).
Hoskins s The Panama Canal, illus., 5/- (4d )
Cooper s Where Two Worlds Meet, 4/6 (3d )
Johnson s Through the South Seas with Jack
London, illus., 12/6 (4d )
Tucker’s Sappho, 2/6 (2d.)'. ’
Tucker’s-Platform Monologues, 3/6 (3d )
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PRQP'T’Y, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
iANAY, PULA-TANA & ROMBLON
JT MATS. Carefully selected, Hand-
somest and most durable Grass Mats made
in World. Beautiful colors and designs,
round or square, 12/0 to £2 each, according
to size. Post paid. Largest size will,cover
floor ordinary room. Satisfaction or money
back. _ Write for free Catalog.
Pattingell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
THE TRAVELLING RUG
PAR EXCELLENCE.
“HOSGIEL”
RUGS.
Entirely made from
High=grade Wool.
Handsome in ... .
Appearance and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Obtaina b I e
at ail the
Best Shops.
[2
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer titan 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth, as a focal or starting point.
The mouth being the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic known, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
M
C. The Bronchial
tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
I). A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOT, .TIT.TTTUUS
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR ODD AND YOUNG.
For - Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods.” [4
The Red Page
The Rhymballade
The popularity of this new verse-form
has been evidenced by the great number of
entries. Wonderful ingenuity has been dis-
played, chiefly on the technical side; but
technical cleverness is, after all, only a
minor desideratum_ in ballade or rhymbal-
lade. Even the rhymballade must have a
soul.
S. E. Napier adds to our counsels of
perfection two suggestions . that, presuming
on the part of our public a general know-
ledge of the ballade-form, we did not men
tion: That each line should be of the sarn
length preferably octosyllabic or decasy -
labic; and that the envoy should be in th
vocative: it should address some person
personified entity. With reference to th
first rule, in only one case of the bette
entries was it broken ; and as to the seconc
rule, in the modern ballade it is frequent! 1
broken. A ballade is more strictly a ballac e
if, following tradition, it ends with a voca
five envoy ; but since the rule was not men
tioned, it has not been considered in judgin
the present competition.
John (or Susan) Fynton selects a wron
rime-scheme. Ishmael chucks his refrai
overboard in the envoy; and G.D.B. an
others forget to begin their envoys with th
necessary pun. Several competitors, lilt
D.W.L., drag in puns with too obvious an
effort. Jean Itoss, like others, is teclmi
cally correct but quite uninteresting,
common fault is a failure to find suflicien:
rimes. This difficulty is inherent in th
ballade in our language, and a little lati
tude must therefore be made in favor o'
competitors whose work is otherwise inter-
esting. Rimes like : disdain —mundane, de
ride —ride, plunderings—-rings, night—unite
roundelay—delay, write —Sybarite are no:
true rimes; and though one may be passec
when separated from the other by a stanza
or two, their occurrence in alternate lines is
usually fatal. Sinners in this respect in riming
include: L.W.N., Bobby, J. Bennett Little
M. O’Snar, Duncan Brown, Asterisk, Mick
Sweeney, Ishmael (a second try) ; but in
all these instances the rhymballades are
otherwise not in the first class. Bildee
fails to keep to the level of liis heartfel :
refrain, “But, Lord, what a lot she ate!’
and Thos. V. Tierney is weak only in his
refrain. L. Sparrow’s punning is incorrect
and O. Hell’s ingenuity in finding four ad
mirable puns on “platypus” puts too great
a strain on the continuity of his rhym-
ballade.
Excellent rhymballades were submitted by
S. Elliott Napier, James Sayers, Charles
Green (“Men are all Olivers asking for
more”), Nella Campbell (“And I own just
a swag and a billycan”), L. A. Roylett,
L. J. Yilliers, Ben Sun, E. Sweeriey, Thos.
V. Tierney (with a too obvious faulty rime),
and Roy R. Rede, who, but for his weak
rimes, would have more lines quoted than
his cheering refrain, “Good beer won’t turn
dog on you.” But the interest of these
rhymballades is inferior to that of the next
class.
This includes rhymballades by Palmyra,
R. G. Henderson, L. Sparrow-. Nina Mur-
doch, Charles Maclean (2), Edward Peru-
gini, R 4 B. (2), and S. Elliott Napier.
Palmyra’s simple lay would deserve quota-
tion for the ingenuity of her puns, if she
had kept all her lines the same metrical
length. R. G. Henderson, the inventor of
the rhymballade, curiously fails to use a
pun for the beginning of his envoy. But
for this omission his place would be higher.
La^lon with anguish the hours go by,
Bringing me nearer the fatal day,
And if rhymes continue so few and shy,
And vanish in this elusive way.
I’ll never he done by the end of May;
For ideas are formless and fly and fade, -
And, weakly wailing, I merely say,
“ ’Twas I that invented the Rhymballade.”
Lay deep in your bosoms the moral high
A trick once done needn’t make you gay.
Baalam’s ass spoke once, but a second try
Merely brought forth his usual bray,
And I fear that I’m on the very same lay,
Worsted by what my own rashness made.
Alas! that ever I joined the fray,
’Twas I that invented the Rhymballade.
Ladling it out, peasoup-wise, I
Had got thusfar, feeling quite an fait
(Or comme il faut), when I saw, with a sigh,
I had made it rhyme with a very long “a” ;
Instead of ad astra, I went astray :
But it should count as a trick of the trade,
And perseverance deserves some pay,
’Twas I that invented the Rhymballade.
To myself: Be serious. Go and pray,
And study Calverley, Dobson, Praed.
That my punch is gone these lines betray.
Was it I that invented the Rhymballade?
R. G. Henderson.
L. Sparrow’s pun-scheme is a poor one.
He practically but repeats one word
throughout. Yet his effort is charming
enough to quote.
Light-haired and blue-eyed, tall and grave,
Your English girl is passing fair ;
Scotch lassies, too, are bright and brave,
And Yankee maidens have the air
Of queens, they say. Let trumpets blare
Of French and Spanish beauties’ might;
I know them not. One thing I swear—•
Australian girls are love’s delight.
Light ladies’ glances may enslave
The wight whose fancies lightly flare;
’Tis said that women svelte and suave
Cast round rash men the nets that snare.
In Lilith’s “strangling golden hair,”
’Tis writ that hearts are wound too tight.
I know not this. One oath I dare—
Australian girls are love’s delight.
Light-limbed, their slender forms they lave
In sunlit waters —browned and bare—
Each girl a Venus of the wave;
Or reckless through the bush they tear
On horses fleet, outspeeding care;
Or love-linked ’neath a starry night,
Great Eros’ wings they gaily wear;
Australian girls are love’s delight.
Light years away, on some elder sphere,
Where all things touch perfection’s height,
It may be they match our maidens rare—
Our Austral gills who are love’s delight.
L. Sparrow.
. The ambiguity of her second stanza, ob-
viously caused by her pun, casts Nina Mur-
doch’s glorious rhymballade out of the final
choice. Her envoy opening comes with a
delightful sense of surprise and then of satis-
faction.
A boding sense of failure fills my soul,
For Pegasus full many nights has strayed
About the Muse's wood, where ghostly bole
And flick'ring leaf by elfin breezes swayed,
Shimmer and gleam and start from ev’ry
shade;
But forward still the jaded steed I goad —
Despite his quivering flanks already flayed —
To win the mystic Rhymballade’s abode.
A bow described icithin a Ballade’s scroll,
Five arrows with a punster’s cunning made,
I carry hidden ’neath my poet’s stole,
And in my foolish quest as further aid
There flashes from my hand a slender blade
That in pursuit of Sonnet and of Ode
Was oft of service—thus I go arrayed
To win the mystic Rhymballade’s abode.
A beau determined to attain the goal
(And whose ancestor was some poet laid
To rest in Villon’s day) perchance might
stroll
With careless feet into the hidden glade
Whose secret path to me is unbetrayed,
But Pegasus groivs weary of his load,
And I wax hopeless, who in rain have prayed
To win the mystic Rhymballade’s abode.
A Beaudelaire unarmed and unafraid
Would surely through this darksome maze
have strode, >
Alas! What fools are we who have essayed
To win the mystic Rhymballade’s abode!
Nina Murdoch.
We are left with six fine rhymballades.
Ihree,. two by Charles Maclean and one by
S. Elliott Napier, have the light touch and
the neatness of expression of the best bal-
lades, with the added ingenuity of the rhym-
balladists of antiquity. They clamorously
demand quotation:—
The rhymballade was a clever invention,
but an M.L. contributor has discovered
another member of the Rhymbel Family, the
rhym-rhuni-ballade. It is not merely rhym-
bel and ballade, but also rhymbelised in two
places, and ballade a double refrain. R 4 8.,
the proud parent, even offers to produce one
with four refrains, but explains that this
cannot be done under four guineas. He has
christened the infant prodigy the ramble-
rimbleromblerumbelade, but his signature,
R 4 B, expresses his idea with algebraical
brevity. It will be seen in the two examples
of his ingenuity that follow, needlessly made
more difficult by the shortness of his lines,
that, in addition to the pun at the beginning
of every stanza, he has a second pun for
his second refrain at the beginning of every
fifth line in each stanza and the second line
in his envoy. He has earned a special prize
of one guinea.
The prize of one guinea is awarded Edward
Perugini, despite his obvious faults in rim-
ing—invert—pervert—avert—for the swing
of his diction and the splendor of his idea.
The fuss that has been made in London
over Shaw’s shocker, “Pygbloodymalion,”
seems a lot of fuss over a little word. His
coster girl, educated to speah correctly, lapses
into the expression, “Not bloody likely!”
and immediately afterwards a society lady,
thinking the word a new bit of society slang,
repeats it. The choice of so common, and,
from its very universality, so innocuous and
meaningless an adjective, shows how easy it
is to stagger the official, or journalistic, Lon-
don mind. It is not as if there were not
plenty of other swear-words, really unpleas-
ant, for Shaw to choose from. The word
lias been printed in literature for years.
John Masefield habitually uses it in poetry
that has earned the highest praise. The
word is—or was—universal throughout
Australia; it has been immortalised as “The.
Great Australian Adjective,” and by “Den”~
in his celebrated Australaise. The device of
indicating "bloody” by dashes was necessary
to heighten the artistic suspense; but there
was no sense of shame connected with the
word, nor was there, probably, a single
reader of those compositions who did not
immediately guess the hidden word. The
Bulletin’s invention of “blanky”' was a
contribution to humor, not a smooge to
Wowsenlom. Nowadays in Australia the
word “bloody” is slightly out of date. Our
native invention has formed ingenious em-
broideries upon the original idea. Australia
will not receive “Pygbloodymalion” with a
gasp.
Australia Answers, by Will X. Redman
(“Will Scarlett”), (The Postal Press, Box
210 <, Sydney) contains: (1) a photograph
Will X, Redman, (2) another photograph
of Will X. Redman sitting, framed in his
study’s casement, looking out over Sydney
harbor and evidently composing his patriotic
poem, and (3) the uninspired blank verse
poem itself.
This era - of the cheap reprint solves the
difficulty of the high cost of libraries for
the home. From the shilling volumes of
“Everyman’s Library” and Bohn’s new shil-
ing series of reprints any bloke can cheaply
furnish his room with valuable books. The
latest batch of Bolin includes: Goethe’s
Faust, Blakes’s Poetical Works, Poushkin’s
Prose Tales, Alessandro Manzoni’s The Be-
frothed (2 vols.), Five Essays, by Mac-
aulay, Lane’s translation of The Arabian
Flights (2 vols.), a number of Trollope’s
novels, and sundries. (Bell, per Dymock’s
Book Arcade, Sydney.)
Paterfamilias grows very gruff;
Funds seem to fly and the income to crawl.
Mater needs money for all sorts of stuff;
Corsets and coffee, and sheets and a shawl.
Blouses and blankets and big boots and
small.
Troubles grow greater by night and by day;
Butcher and baJcer both join in the brawl.
And Life’s but a bundle of bills we must
pay !
Patently “broken,” but trying to “bluff”;
Struggling unceasingly debt to off-stall;
Finding Life’s roadway relentlessly rough—
This is the journey that faces us all.
In cot or in castle, in hut dr in hall,
“Anni labuntur,” as Horace would say.
Cash —it grows shorter, and Cost—it grows
tall.
And Life's but a bundle of bills we must
pay!
Patience and Hope are exceedingly tough,
But they even they—in the end must fall.
1 alienee and Hope are not nearly enough
To roll on the growing financial, ball.
So the burden burns and the fetters gall
And hearts are unhappy and hair grows
grey.
Despairing, at last, we go to the wall
And Life’s but a bundle of bills we must
pay!
Pale Creditor Death! To thine—the last
—call
We ll yield up serenely our bankrupt clay,
For claims are all canceU’d beneath the pall,
And Life s but a bundle of bills we must
pay!
S. ELLIOTT NAPIER.
RHYMBALLADE OF MAY.
Maidens who cultivate the Muse
This month are rising with the sun,
The hours they grudge that in sleep they
I know, for my sister May is one.
A Rhymballade she has long begun,
But ’ere she produces in neat array
The complex rhyme and the pointed pun
I fear it ivill be the end of May.
Mater and pater don’t enthuse.
Brothers and sisters her company shun;
She sits apart and appears to use
Writing material by the ton;
But her stock of rhymes she seems to outrun
H hen she s hardly got properly under way *
Before the magic device is spun
I fear it will be the end of May.
Mayonnaise she used not to refuse,
To theatres she’d go like a shot from a gun •
Now her face would give you the blues,
She, cares not for food, she cares not for fun,
fL, s growing as pale as a cloistered nun
The reckless man who, perhaps in play’,
started this craze I should lilce to stun —
I fear it will be the end of May.
Magi! ye who award “the bun”
Pity a maiden forlorn, I pray;
Before this Rhymballading is done
I fear it will be the end of May.
CHARLES MACLEAN.
RHYMBALLADE OF LOVE.
Damsel! would I were young again,
Sleek of hair and slender of limb,”
So sang I, a middle-aged swain,
Then would my glowing ardor bedim
Romeos love for his Juliet slim;
Len now, as old and as bald as I am,
Ihis is the burden .of my hymn—
‘Love is a torrent you cannot darn.' ”
Damask cheeks showed a rosy stain,
Isips I had thought a trifle prim
Parted, and where I had feared disdain
Smiles like the smiles of cherubim
Filled my cup of joy to the brim.
Oh, that night in the Rose Bay tram!
1 vowed as I worshipped that maiden trim—
“ Love is a torrent you cannot dam.”
Damocles’ sword hangs over me plain.
When my fancy proved to be merely a whim
Breach of Promise became her strain;
Now cool reporters my billets-doux skim
And treasure each fatuous pseudonym,
Her counsel calls her **deluded lamb” —
The little vixen! I swear with vim
“Love is a torrent you cannot dam.”
Damages! Hark to the old. Judge grim,
Bumming me up as a heartless sham.
Most of life’s rivers a man can swim,
Love is a torrent you cannot... .Damn!
CHARLES MACIEAN.
Combat of blowing
Branches awry —
Moping and mowing,
“ Autumn, good-bye!”
Bicorn and shy
Luna sits numb,
Telling the shy
Winter-lime’s come.
Comely, but growing
Ready to die,
Speed, we your going,
A u tumn. Good-bye !
Biting and high
Southerlies strum,
Lifting the cry,
Winter time’s come.
Comfort of glowing
Coals and ct-nigh
Good whisky flowing—
(Autumn, good-Vtje!)
Bide, and are my
Solatium;
So I defy
Winter times come.
Comrades, let dry
Bygones be dumb —
Autumn, good-bye,
Winter-time’s come.
R4 B.
Demurely quaint
Is this fresh fad
Or new complaint,
The rhymballade,
Adeptly clad
In rimes a-gee
To make a glad,
Sweet melody.
Diviner saint
I never had
Than this I paint, —
The rhymballade.
Admire me pad
Its lines in glee,
And hear the mad,
Sweet melody!
Despite constraint
A nd ironclad
Conditions, mayn’t
The rhymballade
Adored be, ad-
vantageously,
For never-sad,
Sweet melody?
Adopt it, lad!
Displayed here, see
The rhymballade-
’/£>' siveet melody!
R4 B.
A CURSE ON ALL PUNNING BALLADE
WRITERS.
By EDWARD PERUGINI.
Helot, by what thieved right do you pervert
To your base use of punning, this great lay
The Ballade? May the awful gods invert
Your puny soul where outer worlds hold
sway,
And chase you through cold space in tireless
play
TJnttl the Cosmos echoes with your yell!
Take heed—approaches fast your judgment
day,
The shade of Villon comes in wrath from
Hell.
Help is there none your sentence to avert.
Your doom is signed and sealed and cast for
aye
Into your place of punishment and hurt,
And you are held as warning for alway
To other poets who with puns display
Too ardent fancy for the Muse’s shell;
On quickened wings all blackened with dis-
may
The shade of Villon comes in wrath from
Hell.
Hellbore the ancients used for minds inert
To sanity’s great charm—but you must bray
For Hellborn fire to wipe your senseless flirt
With Madam Fun from off our ii matter
grey.”
We hold our heads in misery and pray
Pardon from him whose works the ages tell.
Scorning us all who could not make you
stay
The shade of Villon comes in wrath from
Hell.
Helminthic beast, list well to whai I say.
You set us punned Ballades—so hear your
knell —
For your soul’s shreds in speed and disarray
The shade of Villon comes in wrath from
Hell.


w aee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR THE WINTER FASHIONS
N yH° RDCR r'
-O
ft
•o
33/6
21809
2lBii 29/6
2104 qs p
2419 47/6 2568 42/.
No. 21811. Effective Style in Fane Cloth: Collar and Cuffs are of Cloth in contrasting
shades to tone, trimmed lap seams and tabs of self, front, fastening; Two-piece Skirt, finished lap
seams at foot; in Navy, Sage, Grey, Brown, Saxe 29/6
No. 21809.—Smart Kobe Costume in Face Cloth ; Magyar Bodice has Raglan effect, three-
quarter sleeves, Silk Collar finished hemstitching, front fastening; Three-piece Skirt with open
lap seam at front, trimmed square block Buttons; in Grey, Brown, Navy.............. 39/6
No. 2419. Attractive Robe Costume, in Navy Cheviot Serge; Bodice is fastened at front
and trimmed Black Foxaline Fur, wide folded Satin Belt with ends at side; lapped seam Skirt
open at foot . . .. ; 47/6
No. 2104. — Modern Kobe Costume, in tine Navy Sergei has new itobespierire Collar of
Copper Colored Silk, finished pleated frill of same, long Sleeves and pocket effect, front Of
Guipure, front fastening, finished fine Braiding and loop Buttons; new pleated Skirt.,.. 45/*
No. 2568. Robe Costume, ftf striped Whipcord Serge; new Raglan Bodice, long Sleeves arid
front fastening. Collar and Belt fire of the new Persian Pan Velvet; Skirt finished with fold below
hips, and lap seam back and front; in Grey or Saxe 42/-
Robes in Dainty Designs c
for MAIDS <5
Little Folk at
/WnoNy Horderns’
OO oo O'© ,00
MEDINA
<5
ZEN I
S 8
BELLO
BERTHA
DOROTHY
MiNA
JEANNE
The Medina. Maid’s Kobe, in Rough Cheviot Serge, Collar and Cuffs of Cream Serge, but-
toned from neck to hem ; a smart, tailored Robe for Maids from 13 to 19 years—
Sizes: 36in„ 19/11; 39in„ 19/11; 42in., 21/6; 45in., 21/6; 4Sin., 22/6; 51in., 22/6
The Zeni. Plaid’s Rohe, in good quality French Serge, fitting Maids from 12 to 19 years—
Sizes: 36in„ 24/6; 39in., 24/6; 42in„ 24/11; 45in„ 25/6; 48in., 26/6; 51in„ 27/6
The Bello.—Maid’s Robe, in fine Navy Coating Serge, beautifully modelled; an attractive
Frock for Maids from 14 to 19 years—
Sizes: 39in„ 29/11; 42in., 30/6; 45m., 31/6; 4Sin., 32/6; olim, 32/11
The Bertha. Becoming' Frock, in Grey Tweed, Navy Serges and Amazon Cloth in colors
Vieux Rose and Saxe, to fit girls from 0 to 12 years—
The Dorothy.—Attractive Frock, for Girls, in stylish, serviceable materials, Navy Woollen
Serges, Tweeds in a pretty Grey, and Amazon (Toth, in Saxe and Vieux Rose, to fit, girls from
6 to 13 years—
Anthony Horderns’
Winter Fashion Book
is an authoritative guide to the
prevailing modes. The illustrations
faithfully depict selections from
the noteworthy display in the Green
Room of Charming Reception Dresses
and Evening Gowns, Rich Fur Sets
and Smart Ready«to-Wear Costumes,
Blouses and Skirts. Fashions for
Young Australia are also shown, as
well as the New Millinery, Season-
able Footwear and Lingerie. Write
for a copy,
POST FREE ON
APPLICATION.
_ C&i/K&ruj tfordernd’
C&cctfrcSkirt' CerftumoS rfor
/Vinter A . /9/4.
X n,®.-
21805
2533/'
2901
52/C
47/6
•92/6
2902
59/6
21183
73/6
No. 2533/1. —Well Tailored Coat and Skirt, in new Velour Cloth, Collar trimmed
Floral Brocade Velvet, strappings on Sleeves and back finished self-stitchings, well-cut Skirt
slightly eased into stitched Strap at waist at back: Mole, Lime, Tan, Navy, or Black.. 92/C
No. 2901. Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, in the fashionable Navy Serge, with White
Pencil Stripe, Collar of self, finished at neck with Cream Face Cloth tucked, Belt fastened with
fancy Enamel Buckle, the cut-away t .sQue is finished with pointed piece at front, high-waisted
Skirt with lap seam sloped at foot •••••• ••• •• • •• ••• ®
No 21805. — Stylish Russian Coat and Skirt, m Face cloth, foliar, Cuffs and loop But-
tons trimmed Velvet to match, the folded Belt of self is-fastened with fancy Buckle, well-cut
hisrh-waisted Skirt, with rounded lap seam, finished loop Buttons; Sage, Grey, Navy or Light
Tan " : 47/6
\r„ oono a Now stvle, in Whipcord Serge, Magyar Coat, with set-in three-quarter Sleeves,
Sifort tncytshabed pointed Basque Collar, Cuffs, Vest effect and Belt of plain Cloth in-contrast-
J--’ - J - ‘—* • or Crimson 59/C)
Oriental Brocade and macK satin, vest met, " = ’ °
Shirt, finished shaped lap Seams, sloped to hips and trimmed Buttons 73/0
Our Illustrated Price Lists place
the immense resources of the New
Palace Emporium at the command
of everyone. Write for copies of
anything you want, post free on
request, and reap the full benefit of
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
which are for both town and
country. To COUNTRY CUSTOMERS
ordering through the post the SAME
prices are charged as to people
BUYING OVER THE COUNTER, and
the SAME GOODS are seftt, for if it
be true that the COUNTRY HELPS
THE TOWN, it is also true that
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS
LOW PRICES HELP THE COUNTRY.
7*5 ew (Attractive Styles
L at
/^ntftonij<Horderns’
r
H *29
lIDS
<337
lEOI
<t3*
No. H 429. Dressy Coat and Skirt Costume, in Black Crepe-de-Chine,, new Kaglan Coat.
has three-quarter Sleeves, and is finished with American Collar in Ivory Crepe-de-Clune, edged
band of Black, draped Basque, fastening at side, finished with self Ornaments and White Buttons
edged with Black, slightlv draped Skirt, with Buttons and lap seams •;•••*• '•'/ "
No. 1195—Fine Coating Serge Coat and Skirt, in Black or Tvavy; the Collar is of
Oriental Silk, and Severs finished Black Satin piping to match, semi-fitting Back, Sleeves ane.
Pocket effects, have fancy Pearl Buttons with Black or Navy edges; four-piece Skirt, high-
waisted. and reversed lap seams at front VV 1 i ",,,, 4
No. 437.—Navy Coating Serge Coat and Skirt, Basque Coat, with folded Si k Belt ano
Silk Ornaments. Collar of the new Broche Pan Velvet, lngh-waisted Skirt, the opemn„ at foot
fastened with Black Satin Buttons and Buttonholes
No. 1201.—Well-tailored Coat and Skirt, in all Wool Navy Suiting, with fine White
Pencil Stripe; Coat lias Self Collar and Hovers, and is trimmed Self strapping, the Buttonhole
effects are piped with Black Satin, and finished loop Buttons; thrce-picoe Slurt with shaped
fold - ;
Same design, in plain, fine Coating Serge, in Black or Navy O.J/ it
And in Steel Grey Wool Cheviot Serge o—/(»
No. 434. Smart Coat and Skirt, of Black Satin, lined throughout with Majenta Polonaise
Silk, giving: reversible effect. Coat has Self Collar and Cuffs, aijri is finished bilk Ltaici Buttons,
high-waisted four-piece Skirt, with wide lap seams and Buttons /o/-
The Mina. American Tunic, with dainty pleated Skirt in good quality Velveteen, Brown,
Navv and Cream; to fit child from 1 to 0 years—
Sizes: ISin., 7/11; 20in., 8/0; 22in„ 8/11; 24m., 9/0; 26m., 9/11
The Jeanne. —American Tunic, in Corduroy Velveteen, colors, Brown, Navy and Cream; a
charming Frock for children from ] to 8 years—- _ .. .
Sizes: 18in„ 6/11; 20in„ 7/6; 22in., 7/11? 24m., 8/6; 26m., 8/11
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKneJd Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


i 'w/NCffssr&&
Gups for al/ kinds ofshoodptf
d vr)r) O
k/pds of^dups
Tfffyßß/mfIoMETifEGAm
ASK FOR
if
A
..
w
THE
// /'
BRAND
a \
i
iiM - ;
-• ■ '
-
The EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
M
SIZES:
1 Ys hp.
2 hp.
3% hp.
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
/l Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation.
Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on , rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Write for Booklet illustrating and explaining the
many uses of this wonderful little motor, to the
'±b&
m
1
Controlling Representative for Australasia and New Zea-
land, 11. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 88 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; Dept. D-12, 194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane. Local Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome.
W.A.; C. J. Ellershaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A.
Agents required in unallotted territory. Apply 11. A.
GODDARD. Brisbane.
[3
M
"'^^^yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyYyyyyyyyyj
H
99
Underwear.
You cannot know how comfortable under-
wear can be until you have worn Jason.
Immediately you put it on you realise the difference from the
ordinary kind. It is beautifully soft and silk like, and so
perfectly fashioned that it fits easily and comfortably. The
perfectly knitted all-Australasian Wool fabric forms an imper-
vious armour against changes of weather and makes for
good health.
And Jason is absolutely unshrinkable any garment that
| shrinks will be replaced.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices
Jor men, ladies and children. Infants* pure white
Wear in Ihht and medium weights. Jason Jerseys
Jor children wear splendidly. If your dealer does
not stock Jason insist upon his getting it for you .
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, England.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE HAND
The National
flonthly, 6d.
SOI
I Can Give
You Health
' ■ Kj>
IF YOU WILL TAKE
VITA D ATI O
The MEDICINE that cured me of HYDATIDS when all else had failed ;
I then purchased the SECRET of the REMEDY.
You need suffer no longer, VITADATIO is a Tonic. Blood Builder, and
Nerve Restorer. It Cures :
NERVOUS DEBILITY, by bracing the
NEURASTHENIA, by clearing out
nerve poison.
CONSTIPATION, by cleansing the
system.
LIVERISHNESS, by rousing the
liver.
TUMORS and GROWTHS, by destroy-
ing the germs.
DYSPEPSIA, by toninsr the stomach.
GOUT. RHEUMA I ISM. SCIATICA,
by dissolving and expelling ex-
cessive uric acid.
GRAVEL, and STONE, by flushing
the kidneys.
SKIN AILMENTS, by purifying the
blood.
DEPRESSION, by invigorating the
system.
Sold by Chemists and Stores. Write
for Free Advice and Testimonials.
S. A. PALMER,
439 FLINDERS LANE.
MELBOURNE, ViC.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/0. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. . CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SHALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-- BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Pre-eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is the
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L'OLH'S
M
M
M
Fairbanks-morse
MARINE ENGINES
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start easily, run smoothly, develop full rated
power. Simple, compact. All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed Engines, 3 14
to 24 H.P. Slow-speed Engines, 7%l
to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate on Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
Distillate. Stationary and Portable sizes.
2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple,
compact. Two sizes. Will operate any
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, lil>, U.S.A.
AGENTS—
Type “K”
7i h.p.
m
C. H. Relph, Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, N.S.W. Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros..
Perth, W.A.


Benger’s is
natural food entire-
ly free from any
chemical substance
whatsoever,
" l(y
V
It is different
from all other
foods in being
scientifically
combined with
natural diges-
tive principles.
♦
Food
is prepared for child, invalid,
or aged person, with fresh new milk,
and in course of preparation, both
the Food and the milk are partiaMy
digested, as desired.
This unique feature enables Benger's Food
to be assimilated under almost all conditions
of illness and digestive disorder .
Benger's Food is sold in lifts by Chemists , etc., everywhere.
An interesting booklet explaining: how Benger's Food ‘assists Nature'
for Invalids and Convalescents, post f ee from
BENGER'S FOJD LTD., MANCHESTER,Eng.
Branch Offic-s:
NEW YORK (U.S A.) 9?, William St.' SYDNEY (N.S.W.) U 7, Pitt St.
Canadian B gents— NaCo al Drug- & Chemical Co., Ltd., 34, St.
1 75 A Gabriel St., MONTREAL,and branches throughout CANADA.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car line's to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
Are you among those who
reason in this fashion:
“ All this talk about ‘ Acid-
Mouth’ may be all light—
but it dosen’t apply to me.
I haven’t got ‘Acid-Mouth,
I take scrupulous care of
my teeth.”
Let us put this question to
you : “ How do you know
you aren’t among the 19
out of every 20 who do
have ‘ Acid-Mouth?’ Have
you tried the ‘ Acid-Mouth
test ?’
F€B€CO
TOOTH PASTE
“ If you want to have the best chance
in the world to keep your teeth for
life—use Pebeco Tooth Paste.”
Pebeco Tooth Paste does all that
ordinary dentifrices do — cleans, whitens
and polishes teeth beautifully. In
addition it stops 95 per cent, of all
tooth-decay by neutralizing “Acid-
Mouth.”
Send 3d stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of Acid-mouth. Of
all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (wholesale only).
HAVE YOU SEEN OUR BIG CAT-
ALOGUET? over 500 pages, 1000 illustrations. Household 1
Labor Savers, Musical Novelties, Sporting Goods, Tricks,
Games, Puzzles and Things you cannot get anywhere else
Send SIX PENCE fbr it, that will be allowed off first order.
The Onion Company, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
M
Bonningtcm’s
Tubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT CEL LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
They afford immediate relief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, BronchiiilTrouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
these Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
S’d
4V C
7;
017
"WS*
vS*
1/
4s.
v?
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
- stamps to
Bennington &. Co., Ltd.
170 HA KRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
Cured
Any woman can cure the most violent drunkard SECRETE*
AT HOME. GOLDEN SPECIFIC has no odor or taste, arid
can he taken by the most delicate person of either sex. It
totally eradicates all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting
antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases are cured in a few days with
this treatment. Send 2d. stamp for EREE SAM PIjE and full particulars.
THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO. (Dept. B 2012), 94 Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M
f * s
i
n
S?K
THIN WOMEN!
Would You
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all jour life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, your
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
anaemia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is -a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OE LETTERS LIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Cympie, Queensland, May 5, 1913.
Dear Sir,—As a nurse, I was very interested in your Flesh-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to you I was only skin and
bone, and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as I am developed in
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was lasting in
Its effect, and 1 am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—I am, yours gratefully,
Mrs. E. Wingrove.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation and development.
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as stn'ctlv confidential. Call if convenient. 1817
FALLIERE' FLESH-FOOD CO.. 1103 AfrH STREET. SYDNEY.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
KNOWLEDGE, IS POWER
Thirty years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the means
of Preserving the Ilair, and producing a new growth, after all other preparations
have failed.
Mr. Fred Peakman, of Wairoa, New Zealand, is another wonderful case. His hairdresser tells me
he had not a scrap of hair, and now, after a few months’ treatment with my preparations, he has
got a splendid growth of hair.
Mr. O’Rourke, Wee Waa, New South Wales, writes: “My head, which was nearly hald, has now
come back to its usual growth.’’
Mr. Sutherland states: “I had only a little down on my head when I commenced to use your
SPECIAL PARASENE and COSMO LOTION ; now I have a beautiful head of hair.”
Gentlemen who are going bald should use Special Parasene and Cosmo Potion, one at
night and the other in the morning, and wash the head once a week with Shailipuna.
Price (with postage, two months’ treatment): Victoria, 12/-; four months, 22/6. Other
States, 12/6 and 23/6.
. Ladies with hair falling out should apply Restorer at night, and Cosmo Lotion in the
morning, and wash the head as often as necessary with Shampillia.
Naturaline 's a splendid preparation for coloring Grey Hair. lc acts quickly, naturally
and effectively, and is perfectly harmless. Made in all colors. Get the right strength.
No. 1 for Light Brown Hair; Medium for Medium Brown Ilair.
No. 2 for Dark Brown or a Light Black ; Extra Strong for very Black Hair.
Price: Victoria, with postage, 6/3. Other States, 6/8.
E. HOLLAND,
Scalp and Hair Specialist,
195 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
FREE TO
SMOKERS !
Mr. R. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan, N.S.W..
writes: —
“It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been complelely cured of the Tobacco Habit by
your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after using tobacco
heavily for seven years, sometimes Boz. to lOoz. in
the week. It is now 12 months since 1 last used
tobacco, and, although I am continually in the com-
pany of smokers, I do not have the least desire to
smoke, therefore I consider the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my former
complaints, such as irregular Heart Action, Dizzi-
ness, Nervousness and Stomach Trouble, which I
have every reason to believe were caused through the
use of tobacco, have entirely disappeared, and are
only remembered as a hideous nightmare. I eat
and sleep well, and feel fit to face the world again.
Tt will give me great pleasure to recommend your
remedy, to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, als/> Booklet, Testis
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. Q,
107 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
[i.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women <!fc children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins.st., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet _ their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter, Confound Him!
Bald-headed Winter rattles at the door
And will not cease his loud, pneumonic
screaming;
His eyes are red —his beard and eyebrows
hoar,
And his white rain across the hills comes
streaming.
Snow on the hills and gales down in the
Straits;
Through lakes of mud each drab wayfarer
sploshes,
And shoves and swears at swollen, sodden
gates, •
Ere casting down his brolly and goloshes.
And clear-eye Autumn! where, oh! where
is she
Who walked like Wisdom after hectic
Summer?
Ask the cold curate in the churchyard—he
Who begs from cold, blank pews the holy
thrummer.
Now we must order coal, and feed at night
The sleep-producing, necessary fire,
And do more work by artificial light.
And dodge the draughts and tramp through
miles of mire.
The churchyard cough will rattle in our
ears,
Bringing drear thoughts of death, while
feline sneezes
Will scare us all with chill, infectious fears
And make us hate the cold, rain-laden
breezes.
Bald-headed Winter rattles at the door;
His bounding, yelping wind-hounds sport
around him ;
His eyes are red—his beard and eyebrows
hoar.
The brute has come to stay for months —
confound him !
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
If I Could Have My Way.
If I could have my way
All cark and care would cease,
All pleasure would increase.
With zest from day to day
Mankind would live at peace.
No plutocrat obese
Or dry would me gainsay,
Or to defeat bewray
My sweet conspiracies.
Creation would be gay
If I could have my way.
Tf you'd adopt my scheme
O) fool with visage longl
There’d be an end of wrong.
Each following his gleam,
With laughter and with song
We’d live a happy thron^
We’d hang from some high beam
All enemies of dream.
We’d banish to Hongkong
The prudes that peer and scream,
If you’d adopt my scheme.
If Love and I could reign
(Ah, Love, just you and I!),
Delights would multiply.
We’d draw the stings of pain,
And ’neath the smiling sky,
His shrill pipes pealirg high,
Old Pan would plead again,
With dimpling nymphs all fain
Of kisses. None should sigh
For happiness in vain.
If Love and I should reign!
MAOKILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
A Mountain Shrine.
In this green gully,
Betwixt high walls
Through spring and summer,
The lyre-bird calls —
A shawl of silver
The water falls.
Old Care disdaining.
With pilgrim-pack.
Youth, laughing, dances
Adown the track:
The cool caves echo
His joyance back.
In this green gully,
Whose air is wine,
There dwells a being
With eyes ashine.
Her name is Beauty—
Aloof, divine.
Who seeks this gully,
Forgetting care,
Shall find her roaming,
Her pleasaunce fair—
Gold lustres lighting
Her eyes and hair.
And be he artist.
Then he shall know
Whence grew the wonders
Of long ago—
The Grecian statues
With grace aglow.
And be he poet,
Then he shall view
The source whence Shelley
And Spenser drew
Their light and magic,
Their fire and dew.
To this green gully
(Youths once again)
Let us go gaily
From ways of pain.
And tread with Beauty
Her green domain.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


nr on
Cigarettes
SARONY is accepted as the standard Cigarette, by particular people
everywhere.
The Sarony FLAVOR is distinctive.
The Sarony AROMA is delightful.
The Sarony QUALITY is unequalled.
Turkish or Virginia. All Leading Tobacconists.
JlaQtifactarcd by NICOLAS SARONY & CO.,
New Bopd Street, LONPON, W.
For Country
Residences
and
Hotels,
M
Public Halls,
and
Country
Stores.
“Lister-Bruston” Automatic Electric Lighting Plant.
This Plant (as illustrated complete) generates electricity automatically. The Engine and
Dynamo start themselves as soon as the lights are switched on.
The Plant is low in cost, self-contained, and thus, as a tenant’s fixture, can be moved from place
to place.
May we show YOU how to get better light at less cost? Write to us about it to-day. Plants
are delivered practically ready for connecting up to House Wiring.
AGENTS: N.S.W.-W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.-SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
OUEENSLAND-WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTER BUCK BROS ArtelxiH,.
HEALS ANY WOUND OK SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won't
knjt, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no matter of how long standing, you can cure it
quickly and surelv with
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 1/9. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
SELF-THREADING MACHINE NEEDLES
M
Save time and trouble. Quite simple and easy.
It takes but a moment. You merely make a loop
of the cotton, run it around the eye, a slight pull
passes it through the spring opening, and the ueedle
is threaded. Ydu could do it 20 times in a minute in
the dark. You will never be bothered with an ordi-
nary needle after using a Self Threader. When order-
ing state name of machine and number of cojtton.
Two Needles for Seven Pence, or Four for One Shilling,
post free. The UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.
Foggitt, Jones, & Co.. Ltd.,
&
tfSS
'/A.
n
stood
fL
*
'\
o>
-r
w
Take Time to Give You Leisure
Just heat Rex Products while the table is being set. Then serw
Without bother or fuss, without the hours of preparation vo
give >oiu family u meal which is equal to any ever made. The
hard work is all done for you in our famous kitchens.
“RE X” PRODUCTS
Are made the slow, painstaking \v.ay. the one way that produce-
the flavor and makes such goods most satisfying and nourishing
J nere are quicker, easier methods, but we are not looking for
quick or easy ways. From the start of our business' our one
anu has been to make only the best.
That’s why we are so anxious for you to try the following:
“REX” DELICACIES.
Ham Pate, M lb. tins. Pork Sausages, 11b. tins.
Veal & Tongue Pate, *4 lb. Pork and Beans, 1141 b.
Pork Brawn, lib. tins. Pigs’ Feet. Sheep’s Tongues.
“Rex” Brand Lard for cooking purposes.
Fog'gitt, Jones &, Co. Ltd.
Curers of “REX” HAMS AND BACON.
Packers of “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
13
SPECIAL HEAVY
THREE RIBtSED
m
'~^r
2
m
r T*
sss
1
I
IP
> /J..PW
'ViM'tf
Australian=Made Tyres
GIVE LONGER MILEAGE and LESS TROUBLE.
MANUFACTURED BY
PRICE LIST and ALL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney.
105 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
03 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
M
Waterman’s
( Ideal)
Fount ainPen
EVERY TASTE GRATIFIED
EVERY HAND SATISFIED
Plain, chased, and exquisitely mounted in silver and in gold,
Waterman’s Ideal is as pleasing in appearance as it is perfect in
performance. It looks good and is good. Writes on and on
without a splutter or falter so long as the hand guides it.
Increases comfort, minimises labour, saves time, lasts a lifetime.
Iridium-tipped gold nibs to exactly suit every hand.
In four types —Regular, Safety, Self-Filling, Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd., LONDON, Eng.
(Australia: 350, George St., Sydney.) Write for booklet.
1
u
V
m
.
MB. i
STiSS
■
4
.
„V V
The DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE
—The Ideal Touring Car
Roomy, Speedy, Comfortable, Stylish, of perfect finish
and mechanism, the D-B Four, 18-li.p., is the car, par
excellence, for touring.
Australian conditions and roads were thoroughly
understood by the engineers who built this car; and
every prospective motor owner should investigate the
Delaunay-Belleville before deciding.
Full particulars and literature on application.
Arrange for a TRIAL Demonstration.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.
Motor Garag'e i
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 35.—N0. 1791.
THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 1914.
I’JUCE (*».
THE PRICE OF MEAT CONTINUES TO ADVANCE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia fur tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
i City 2389.
TELEPHONES: { CUy 2390 .
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
11 6s. Gd. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements. etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and. not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Itlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of eaoh mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada.- —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., tyf Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C.. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IK. E. Lenehan, 586
20th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon.—lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
4/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertisin/f plates, size 6%in.
x V/in., ancl gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): —Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, AM-Sea
Route, IGoz., Id. Only one newspaper should he en-
,‘Closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., B}oz.
‘to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz.,
Id., and id; each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 11, 1914.
JOHN BROWN’S STRIKE.
To get to the inner significance of the
present disturbance in the N.S.W. col-
liery districts —a row which must injure
the whole trade of Australia unless it
is quickly ended —the public must understand
a whole herd of widely differing circum-
stances. It is necessary, in the first place,
to know the minds of the men and grasp the
reason and extent of their objection to the
night (or, as it is technically called, the
“afternoon”) shift. This shift begins in
the coal districts at 3 p.m., and ends
eight hours later. In other words, the
night-shift miner, after walking from
his work and having his meal, does not
get to bed till far beyond midnight. There
are many people to whom this would repre-
sent no hardship. City-dwellers, for ex-
ample, with late trams and restaurants avail-
able ; and people who are affluent enough
to employ servants. But to the coal hewer,
who has to tramp back after 11 p.m. to a
dark and sleeping home, there is nothing in
it. The wife who waits up for her night-
shift husband is a rarity, and those who do
it and keep their tempers intact are rather
scarcer still. So the worker on night-shift
endures about the most depressing home-
coming imaginable. Add to this the facts
that his job deprives him, to a great extent,
of the chance to meet his fellows in a social
way, and shuts him out from practically all
the sport, political discussion, etc., of his
district, and it becomes plain that the lot of
this class of citizen has its drawbacks. As
regards his wife and other dependents, they
have the breadwinner mooching about the
premises when he is least wanted; their im-
memorial meal-system is disorganised; they
have to undertake a sort of household night-
shift, in addition to the ordinary day-shift;
and they are given just cause in many other
respects to feel sorry for themselves. The
mine proprietor, of course, has his point of
view. His chief mission in life is to tear as
much fuel out of the bowels of the earth as
he can sell. Trade being brisk in his line
at present, it might be good business for him
to crowd in an early-morning shift, in addi-
tion to the two others, if the thing were
practicable. At least one of the coalowners
—John Brown —is understood to have made
contracts which he will have difficulty in
carrying out if he is suddenly limited to one
shift per 24 hours. And then there is the
Australian public, which suffers by a strike
in the Commonwealth’s biggest coal region.
There are other factors in the situation, but
they are small beside these three.
A first essential in all such upheavals is
for the unbiassed, and more or less disinter-
ested, person in the street to apportion the
blame correctly. Are the men making frac-
tious nuisances of themselves in this matter,
for no better reason than that they want a
holiday, and feel inclined, incidentally, to
give the employing classes another dig? Or
have they a genuine grievance V Are those
colliery proprietors who are holding out
against the abolition of the night-shift be-
having in an unreasonably stiff-necked
fashion, or is the night-shift a necessity if a
fair volume of business is to be done, or their
mines saved from insolvency V These are
some of the questions which public opinion
will have to clearly answer before there is
much hope of either employers or men re-
adjusting their point of view. This paper suf-
fers from no delusions about the Australian
working man. It has never regarded him
as a pliant, self-effacing instrument, ready at
all times to sink his own interests in defer-
ence to the interest of the community as a
whole. The mine-worker, probably because
he pursues'* a risky and unhealthy calling, in
an unnatural environment, is rather crankier
and more sensitive about his rights, real and
alleged, than his fellow-toilers in other vine-
yards. Here is a case, however, where he
appears to have a grievance. He is asking
for no more than the right to enjoy the same
social and home life as other men. It is
up to his opponents to put forward excep-
tionally strong reasons why the State should
withhold from him the things he is demand-
ing. As ja matter of fact, the reasons which
have been put forward, so far, are by no
means strong. When the whole position is
boiled down, and put through a fine sieve,
and carefully analysed, it becomes apparent
that there is but one member of the com-
munity who is as anxious for the night-shift
as the men are for its abolition, and that
man is millionaire John Brown, of New-
castle. He has long been the master-spLit
of the Colliery Proprietors’ Association, and
now that the representatives of the Aberdare,
Abermain iand Neath collieries have with-
drawn, over the night-shift issue, he is the
Association. There is not a man left in it
who is capable of standing up to him. Why
is he wedded so indissolubly to the night-
shift nrinciple? In the first place, because
he is John Brown, which is to say a citizen
for whom earth holds no greater calamity
than that he should be prevented from get-
ting his own way. And in the second
because, without any question whatever, the
sudden abolition of the night-shift is going
to mean financial loss to the collieries with
which he is associated. The night-shift
trouble has been coming to a head for the best
part of a year, at the least.’ During that
time John Brown has doggedly refused to
believe that, there was anything in the men’s
threats and mutterings. The representa-
tives of othdr collieries put it to him persist-
ently that it was only a matter of time before
the mine-workers would kick against a system
which had outlived its period. He laughed
at them. These men withdrew in due
course from the Association; not in any
spirit of high-minded altruism, but as an
insurance against trouble —in short, as an
ordinary matter of business —and arranged
voluntarily with their employees to work only
one shift. John Brown and his following
brought the matter to Court, and one outcome
of that proceeding is the row wffiich is raging
on the Maitland coalfield.
As has been already mentioned, the instant
wiping-out of the night-shift will mean loss
to the Brown collieries. And to that ex-
tent its abolition would be a misfortune.
But the Brown contracts —or, at any rate,
the majority of them —were made with what
should have been a full knoweldge, on the
part of those responsible, that the miners
were violently hostile to the old regime, and
determined to do away with it ultimately.
If it were humanly impossible for a big
quantity of coal to be got out of the Brown
collieries on the one-shift arrangement, there
would be a good deal more to be said for their
owner’s stark adherence to the two-shift sys-
tem. But it is not so. The collieries which
withdrew from the Proprietors’ Association
some six months ago have already demon-
strated that practically as much coal can be
obtained under the one system as the other.
It is all a matter of organisation, sweet rea-
sonableness and horse-sense. By extending
the working places, by making provision for
the emnloyment of additional men, and by
other like contrivances, Aberdare, Abermain
and Neath are able still to hew a ton of coal
where a ton of coal was hewn before. Had
the John Brown collieries adopted this wise
line when the signs of trouble first loomed up
months ago, they would not now require the
second shift to save them from financial loss,
and Australia would not be facing the peril
of a big coal strike. As things are, the out-
look is dejecting from whatever aspect it is
The men who strike will sacrifice
a large sum in wages. The industrial-arbi-
tration principle is being trodden on once
more, to the scandal of all good Laborites,
law-abiders, seekers after the millennium,
and other well-disposed persons, and to the
derisive joy of every genuine anti-Socialist
and Anarchist in the land. John Brown
and his adherents are.going to lose some of
their money. And the collieries which tried
to do the right thing by their men stand to
be involved in the trouble —in fact, they
probably will be so involved before these lines
are printed. Their employees are not strik-
ing now. But they are helping to support
by their earnings their fellow-unjonists who
are striking. There is nothing in that from
their standpoint, so they may be expected
shortly to down tools in what will be de-
scribed as a “sympathy strike.” Whatever
name they call it by, it will smell as sour
in the nostrils of the public, who will thereby
find themselves deprived of one of the neces-
saries of life.
Obviously the prime requirement in this
crisis is for the parties to come together,
and, after resolutely sinking malice, ill-feel-
ing, mule-headedness and kindred vices, agree
to do the fair thing all round. Judge Ed-
munds’s recent award —the one which caused
such an outcry a couple of weeks ago —is not
yet gazetted. In a sense it may be said
never to have been actually delivered, inas-
much as there was no intention that it should
be gazetted—and so rendered irrevocable,
in a manner of speaking—until the parties to
it had met and “spoken to the minutes”;
i.e., commented on the details of the Judge’s
effort, and urged upon him reasons why it
should be varied. The position now is that
Judge Edmunds, influenced possibly by pub-
lic criticism, or by the men’s conduct in strik-
ing, or something, has indefinitely postponed
the speaking to the minutes of his award.
Meanwhile a Commission has been appointed
to inquire into the collieries question gener-
ally, and incidentally the Commission has
ceased to be operative, so far as the striking
regions are concerned. In these circum-
stances The Bulletin suggests some condi-
tions which it considers precedent to peace.
In the first place, let Judge Edmunds’s
award remain ungazetted. Secondly, let the
striking miners go back to work, on the
understanding that the at-present suspended
Commission shall be revived immediately,
and instructed to consider the advisability or
otherwise of making the night-shift unlawful.
In the third nlace, let John Brown and his
friends, whose short-sightedness and stub-
bornness-—or, conversely, whose long-visioned
appreciation of what is right and just in this
connection—-have produced the whole trouble,
give the community clearly to understand that
tjiey will abide by the decision of t-he Com-
mission, whatever that decision may be. And,
finally, let the Commission then get to work
and try to do a fair thing by everybody con-
cerned. What a long, glad dream life would
be. if only some institution like a Commission
could persuade everybody to unflinchingly do
the fair thing by everybody else !
THE OX AND THE ASS.
A heavy-handed backblocks wag, by name
J. E. A. Florance, wrote to the papers last
week as follows :
Not only should it be criminal to sell cattle, etc.,
to an American, or the son or daughter of an Ameri-
can, but, so that there should be no mistake, let'us
add also, “or to any person named Sam or Jonathan,
or any person wearing striped pantaloons or a starred
vest, or to anyone with a Yankee - twang.” The
opinion of the inspector should be final on the ■ last
matter, such inspector to be a .professor of “conk-
ology.”
The general drift of this ponderously comic
effort was that Armours' and Swifts, firms
whose names are synonymous in the . UiS. and
elsewhere with the Beef Trust, must benefit
pastoralists by their arrival in Queensland- —
a sentiment which was also voiced during the
week by every pastoralists’ representative
who appeared before the Abattoirs Commis-
sion, then sitting in Brisbane. It is pet*
haps possible to legitimately argue that the
operations of Armours and their trade allies
have done no damage to Australia so. far.
The rise in the cost of living generally, and
the soaring tendency of the household chop
in particular, may be due to influences which
are unconnected with any combine. A
hundred theories may be advanced, each of
them fairly plausible, why bread, meat and
the like are bound to rise in price year by
year. It is even possible for fervent indi-
vidualists to claim—as they have claimed
of late—that there is no real evidence, in the
strictly legal sense, that the Beef Trust is
in Australia at all. More fantastic argu-
ments than that have been put forward since -
controversy began. After all, there are many
citizens of Australia who only know that
Brisbane exists on hearsay evidence. But
if the big Trust is in Queensland —and it is •
at least a reasonable thing to assume, the
fact —then is the pastoralist, of the settled
order, one of the last men in the community
who should raise a psean of joy about it. It
may be that, from one cause and another—
the centralisation madness, the comparative
scarcity of sheep and cattle, the spread of
the meat-eating habit among the millions of
Asia and so on—the cost of meat will pres-
ently leap. Beef Trust or no Beef Trust, to
a figure which will put chops and steaks
beyond the means of the more indigent Aus-
tralians. That will be unpleasant for those
affected; yet, as regards their life’s work,
whatever it is, they will remain free men.
But that is more than the pastoralist will
be who finds himself in the business when the
Beef Trust has got property into its stride.
A member of the firm of Birt and Co.
gave the Abattoirs Commission some evidence
which embodied the whole of the views of
the short-sighted modern station-holder —also,
incidentally, of the station-holder who sees
what is coming, but who means to be in Eng-
land, with the proceeds of the sale of his
nroperty in a bank, when the trouble realty
begins. This witness said :
The operations of the American company in Queens-
land meant more competition and higher prices to
pastoralists. He did not see how the American people
could be called a combine. There were three Ameri-
can companies here, all competing for meat. As
far as he could see, they were competing against
each other. He did not fear the competition of
Americans. He thought the majority of pastoral-
ists welcomed Americans opening here, because it
meant more competition and better prices for their
stock.
There was a time when U.S. and Argentina
pastoralists, who would now gladly see the
Beef Trust dynamited, felt just like that
about it too. This Trust always
begins by being a mother and a
father to the pastoralist. The station-
holder is overjoyed during the first
few years at the splendid prices
which the vast concern pays him for his
goods. The explanation is that during this
period the Trust is occupied, under its vari-
ous aliases, in ousting the outside buyer, lo
that end it is prepared to pay almost any
figure for meat. Simultaneously, it lays
itself out to control the supply—to become a
pastoralist on a vast scale itself. Both these
phenomena may be seen at work in Queens-
land to-day. Not till the Trust has driven
away the outside buyer, and become, by the
acquisition of many stations, the largest
owner of stock, will the pastoralist begin
realty to feel like an insect and a Worm, and
one who has been taken down by the three-
card trick. The Trust will be free, from then
onwards, to play with the market as it wills.
Thus, in Chicago, it is its habit to wait till
the market is short of stock, and
then pay high prices. The cattle-owners
automatically rush their property to the sale-
yards. At once the bottom falls through
the figures. The stock has to be sold, and
is sold, to the infinite profit of the Trust.
The U.S. public remains unaffected by all this
elaborate jobbery. It pays much the same
old extortionate sum for its meat, whether
market prices are high or low. It is safe to
say that it will be the same in Australia.
As The Bulletin has been remarking for
years, the main object of the Trust, in com-
ing to the Commonwealth, is to collar the
English market. Australia is already an ex-
porter of meat to London in a fairly large
way. With anything like luck, its trade
should expand greatly in this direction in the
next few years. But if the ITrust gets con-
trol of the Smithfield markets —and G. 11.
Reid’s recent warning indicated that this is
quite on the cards- —the local pastoralist will
be as much up against it in his attempts to
sell in London as he will be by that time
here. The Trust will be able to kill him
by flooding Smithfield with meat, as easily
as it could perform the same feat to-day in
America, by similarly flooding the Chicago
market, if any Australian stockowner were
so demented as to go there in search of gain.
With all these things shrieking to him to
beware, the local pastoralist who acclaims
the Beef Trust —unless he means to get out
of the business within a year or so-; —is as
dull as one of his own cows.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Double Trick Dissolution.
Technically, if no more, the Governor-
General was utterly wrong in granting . a
double dissolution. It is true that Cook
was unable to induce the Senate to pass two
bills which he Sent up to it. But those two
bills, were deliberately designed to ensure
their rejection. So far, then, as there is
any known deadlock between the two
Houses, it is a carefully manufactured deadr
lock. On a hundred matters there is no
more violent disagreement between these two
Chambers than there is between any other
two. It certainly is not proved that the
two cannot work together at all. It is not
even proved that they disagree over big
matters of national policy. The two trick
bills specially designed to create a deadlock
involved nothing momentous. One related
to preference to unionists in the public ser-
vice of the Commonwealth, and that system
has been' abolished already. The other re-
ferred to some small matter about postal
voting. The Cook Government did not, indeed,
try to pass laws; it deliberately tried not
to pass them. It did not try to do one of
the hundred things which it might have
done; it deliberately set itself to make a
pretence of doing a couple of microscopic
things which it knew very well it could not
do. And when it could not do them it cried
“Deadlock!” and to get out of the small
bogus difficulty created for its own party-
advantage, it moved the G.-G. to use an
elaborate piece of machinery which ought
never to be employed, and was intended
only to be employed, when relations between
the two Houses become so strained that
essential legislation is impossible. More-
over, it seems beyond argument that, even
allowing , a difference of opinion between the
majorities in the two Houses, a double dis-
solution should not be granted when a single
or ordinary dissolution would conceivably
meet the case. In thty instance it cannot
even be pleaded on behalf of the G.-G. that
both parties in the House of Reps, have
been tried, and both have failed. Only one
party has attempted to do any business.
Therefore the deadlock, such as it is, is not
between the two Houses, one representing
the people and the other the States. It is
between a bare majority, representing one
party in one House, and an overwhelming
majority in the other House. At the most
the G.-G. should have granted Cook
an ordinary dissolution ; and it is doubtful
whether he should have granted even so
much as that until this Prime Minister had
shown conclusively that no other Prime
Minister could hope to get any vital
measures passed. If the country had then
insisted on having Cook and nobody
but Cook, and if the Senate had thereafter
shown that it would not pass any Cook
legislation at all, the claim for a double dis-
solution would have been unanswerable.
But, even after all that, the claim would
still not have been good if the Government
had deliberately chosen to send up not big
measures of general policy but small bills
trickily chosen not because they were likely
to pass but because they were certain not to
pass.
+
An Institution that is Stronger in the.
Legs than it is in the Head.
Dear Bulletin,- —I spent a week in camp
lately with a dozen cadets from the Dun-
troon Military College. A more promising
lot I never saw. Keen and efficient, and at
the same time completely devoid of any sus-
picion of “swank,” they are ideal types of
embryo soldiers. Yet their chief excellence
-—namely, the unusual perfection of their
discipline—is going to be their worst misfor-
tune when they leave Duntroon and start
out on the work for which they have been
trained. That is, unless conditions alter
vastly in the next few years. These boys
have been so moulded by the very capable
Duntroon staff that the idea of refusing to
obey the order of a superior has become
unthinkable to them. But under present con-
ditions that sort of thing has to be done
quite often. One illustration will do. Some


time ago an order was issued in Melbourne
that there should be field-firing, by cadets, in
open order, with ball ammunition. This
meant that boys of 14, who had known what
it was to handle rifles, at the most, during
11 one-hour parades, were to advance, at
from three to 20 paces apart, and fire at
targets, independently, in their own time.
Anyone who has seen firearms of any sort
mishandled by inexpert shots will know what
this means. At country hare or rabbit drives
there are always to be found villainously
casual or criminally ignorant sportsmen, who
carry their guns upside down, fire freely
“down the line,” clamber through fences with
the lethal weapons oil “the safe” and so on.
These murderous citizens are in many cases
fairly experienced shots. It is not till they put
a charge into a friend that they come to realise
the dangerousness of their antics. Picture
the holocaust that would have occurred had
14-year-old ’cadirts been suffered to discharge
ball ammunition on much the same lines as
country-folk scatter round No. 6 shot in the
course of a hare-drive. The undertakers would
have enjoyed the trade boom of a lifetime.
There wasn’t even the justification of pre-
cedent for this insane order. In Continental
armies field-firing with ball ammunition is the
•very last operation in the training of adult
conscripts. Not till the citizen soldier is
20 years of age, and has done eight months’
continuous drill, after passing all the rest of
his training, is he allowed to indulge in this
risky business. The area-officers turned
down the demented order as unhesitatingly
as they would have turned down a sugges-
tion from the same quarter that they should
march, with their charges, over the' nearest
steep cliff. But when the Duntroon officers
take on the areas, as they will do presently,
there is little prospect that they will show
similar discrimination. The essence of the
rigorous training that they have undergone,
and are undergoing, is the performance, with-
out question or complaint, of precisely what
those in authority order. Also, there is
another consideration. To the present
area-officers the flouting of authority,
where the same is palpably at fault,
means little. It would mean little, to
the majority of them, if their areas were
taken away from them to-morrow. They
are solicitors or dentists or clerks first, and
soldiers afterwards. But to the Duntroon
lads soldiering is everything. They simply
can’t afford to imperil the profession to
which they have devoted their lives by an
assertion of independence. It is the duty,
therefore, of the Government to take particu-
lar care that they get a fair deal from their
brigade-majors and the Military Board.
That is only another way of urging that the
latter shall be tested carefully for competence,
and. if found to be lacking in any respect,
replaced with better men. To an inde-
pendent onlooker it seems as though the Aus-
tralian army were being perfected from the
bottom upwards, which is by no means the
way the business should be done. The rank
and file of the cadets are good right through ;
and their future officers are astonishingly
good. It is one of the tragedies of the ser-
vice that the mostly imported men at the
top are bv no moans'worthy of the material
at their disposal. I know it reverses the
whole of the anti-compulsory service theories
of a year or so back ; yet so it is.—Yours,
etc., Cavalryman.
The Adelaide Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals Society threw out Paris Nesbit’s
motion of censure on the committee for
declining to, prosecute certain plumpton hare
worriers; hut the suave K.C. made it listen
to a few gentle observations: —
The sport of coursing was an abomination, and
the plumpton form' of setting tvvo dogs unon a
trapped hare was the acme of vicious cruelty. Its
devotees , must belong to a lower grade of mankind.
Compounded as they were of God and Devil, such
persons were yielding to the lower instincts of their
natures. If they had not sufficient kindliness to
refrain from this diabolical amusement without
pressure of the law, then the law should be brought
upon them. If they wanted to see a collection of
the most ruffianly faces to be found in South Aus-
tralia they had only to visit the plumpton.
The case for the defence was put by Vice-
President S. J. Jacobs :
The position the committee took up was that the
society had for its object the prevention of cruelty
to those living creatures which man had reduced to
his uses. They did not desire with any morbid
spirit to interfere with any old and recognised sport
which might be regarded as a matter of taste. He
remembered a Governor of N.S.W. refusing to con-
demn pigeon matches, because, although he did not
like them himself, he considered that indulgence
in the sport was a matter of taste.
The trouble is that there are so many “old
and recognised sports” that may be regarded
as a matter of taste. These include cock-
fighting', wife-beating, bottling the police,
pick-handling sore-backed horses, tying fire-
works to dogs’ tails and burying baby in the
cellar. If no one had a taste for these things
they wouldn’t be done, The subject resolves
itself into whose taste is to be considered —
the taste of the callous ruffian, or the taste
of society (not to mention the taste of the
victim) which is sickened by the ruffian’s
taste. Regarding the above-catalogued
“sports” the law plumps for society’s taste,
and possibly some day it will do the same
concerning the coursing and pigeon-butcher-
ing infamies. That, however, won’t be due
to the Adelaide Society for the Retention of
Cruelty to Animals —unless, of course, it
achieves a new taste.
A Japanese poet, it seems, has flung this at
those lands which lie in his nation’s path:—
“No flowers may here be plucked”—
Aye, write it plain !
The storm, that cannot read,
Will mock your pain.
The verse is significantly quoted by the
author of an authoritative book upon Japan,
written in German, at the head of a chapter
which discusses Japan’s “drift to the south.”
The author points out that the Japs are
essentially a southern folk—even the short
and mild Japanese winter is a time of misery
to them; and whatever they may do and
endure in emergencies prolonged residence
in the cold is more fatal to them than war.
Formosa is by far the most popular of Jap
acquisitions, and “any movement toward
further extensions in a southerly direction
would have the passionate sympathy of the
whole population.” Australia has been fatu-
ously putting up notice-boards, warning
Asia not to steal her flowei’s; now, on the
Japs’ own tii>. she must make some solid
provision against the storms which will mock
her pain if they find her unprepared to meet
them.
The Vic. Housing Commission put itself
xxnder the guidance of a knowledgeable
John Hop the other day, and inspected the
slums that lie between Bourke and Latrobe
streets, also those of South Carlton. The
members were shown dozens of small, dark,
two-roomed shanties, built without regard to
ventilation or drainage, or anything else ex-
cept extortionate profits and lightning re-
turns. The city dens were mostly occupied
by Chows or Syrians—many of the latter
beng ice-cream and Turkey-lolly vendors.
The Carlton citizens, on the other hand, were
white, at any rate outwardly. The Com-
mission was surprised, likewise shocked, to
learn the value of these properties—the
capital, as contrasted with the rent-
producing, value. A stone’s throw
from Wesley Church was a yard; a
decent-sized yard for a decent house.
It canned no house, but around it were six
or eight two-i’oomed dens, each of which was
let to an An Sin at Bs. a week. In a lane
off a lane off Exhibition-street was
another row of two-roomed “cottages,”
with backyards smaller than the owner’s
bedrooms, and these brought in 14s.
a week each! Only Lais could afford
to occupy them. A lane in Carlton, which
the directory designates Lansdowne-place,
but which the police know as Cut Throat
Alley, boasts a trifle better class of abode,
though not one building of the lot would
bring £3O if sold for removal. Yet the rents
run from 18s. to 20s. a week, and the places
are always occupied. In San Francisco, be-
fore the gi’eat fire came to regenerate the
city, there was a whole street of the double-
roomed edifices which grace so much of Mel-
bourne. This street was one of the sights
of old Chinatown. The front door of each
abode was of the swinging variety. The
passer-by gave it a kick, and it opened to
disclose a lady, who might be almost any
color known to the paint-box, leaning back
en deshabille in a rocking-chair. If the door
failed to open it meant that the lady had
company. There must have been two
or three hundred of these places in
the one street, and they were owned
by one of the most ostentatiously pious
Christians in California. It would be inter-
esting to know at what church the gentle-
men worship who own the joy-sliacks of old
Melbourne.
“A Recording Angel” : The oi-ation of
“0.K.” (B. 14/5/T4) re the I’ankhurst
Philosophy, was first-class at the start, but
tailed off at the finish. Thus: —
They [the Suffragettes] haven’t thusfar persuaded
the vast unthinking majority of their own sex, or
convinced the deep-thinking minority of the other sex,
that women are entitled to the franchise, or ever can
be entitled to it, until they qualify themselves as
roadinakers.-. .., performers of all the great produc-
tive forms of labor which are essential to the civilisa-
tion on which the system of Parliamentary govern-
ment is founded. The Suffragettes who fail to win
anybody to their Cause by burning a church would
be unanswerable if they built a bridge or constructed
a railway.
Lovely woman doesn’t build bridges and rail-
ways, certainly. But she does build babies.
And takes a big risk at the end of
it. Also lovely woman, whether an
actual or only a potential infant-builder,
is penalised a bit physically compared
with bridge- and empii'e-builders, and
she doesn’t always see the fun of this. Some
infant-builders are incompetent, of course;
and lazy. But I guess the average infant-,
builder gets on her job and stops on it about
as well as the average bridge-builder. Still
I don’t see what it all has to do with the
vote. As to “splendidly false ideals of
womanhood” and other gush, mostly that
can’t be helped. “Women and children to
the boats first” —of course you can’t defend
it by logic. But you can’t help it. The
white race pees out when it stops playing
that game. You can’t reason these things:
it’s instinct. It’s the same about keeping
Australia white.. And the same with another
thing: men juries letting lovely woman off.
Why? God knows. She throws vitriol over
her erring Romeo’s phiz. He comes up and
shows it to the iury, and they say: “ Take
it away!” And they let her go—especially
if she’s young and good-looking. What’s that
prove? That “0.K.” and other males can’t
or won’t —anyhow don’t —deal out even-
handed justice to woman. Why? Again,
God knows. It’s just instinct. Blame it on
brute man or angel woman, whichever you
like. But you’ve got to put up with it—
and you’d be a lot worse off if you didn’t
have to.
At the recent congress of co-operative
society delegates in London, the president
stated that the societies interested had made
a trading profit of 14 million pounds last
year. Divided among three million mem-
bers the profits per head are only two shil-
lings a week; but if a large proportion of
the trade is in the retailing of common
necessaries, better and cheaper than the
members could get from non-co-operative
sources, the individual gain is considerable.
Anyway, the profit is 14 millions snatched
by co-operation from capitalism. If every
trade, industry and business were run on
the co-op. system, then every worker would
be his own employer, and every consumer
would be a part owner of the shops he bought
his goods at, and the interests of supply and
demand would be mutual, and capitalism
wouldn’t get a look in edgeways, and the
Socialism that alarms the Tory press would
be achieved without alarming it at all, be-
cause Socialism would be practically Pri-
vate Enterprise conducted on co-operative
principles. In fact, the Tory press would
have no visible means of support* and the
Labor party would cease to be. If there
were a satisfactory tariff, no Trusts and no
Labor troubles, what would Party Politics
live upon? Meanwhile a score of easy
opportunities for putting co-operation into
practice are waiting to be seized. The time
is always ripe.
“Marmaduke EitzPumpkin” : There is no
doubt that the process of “passing on,” with
frills, the extra cost imposed on the em-
ployers by the Arbitration Courts is hitting
the primary producers very sorely, and The
Bulletin sub-leader of May 14 represents
the case plainly enough. So far as wheat-
growing is concerned, Australian Govern-
ments will never let that collapse, because
of the smash that would follow in the rail-
way finances. They would rather, and per-
haps eagerly, listen to a proposal to give a
bonus to its export to keep the industry on
its legs, the cost of the bonus being of course
passed on to the same good old public. My
own keenest sympathies are rather with that
producer who has only the local market for
the disposal of his goods. He gets the thick
end of the stick with a vengeance; and when
the passing-on process has found bottom
the thick end rests on his chest and he can-
not shake it off. Last week the Sydney
market quoted tomatoes at 4s. to ss. a case,
and the fruit was sold in the city at !)d. a
lb. As there are at least 201 b. saleable in
a case, this works out at 155., or over three
times the “market” value. Tomatoes over-
ripen quickly, and their handling in large
quantities would be risky, and this might
be advanced as a reason for the high selling
price; but. as a matter of fact, this par-
ticular supply (from Bowen, Q.) is bi-
weekly and regular while the season lasts.
There is, therefore, very little risk; more-
over, the market immediately drops when
the supplies become abundant; and 4s. is
well above the average price realised by the
grower. It is still further above the net
amount he receives, because charges on a
liberal scale are deducted at the market end.
Besides, he pays fid. for the material of
each case, freight, harbor dues, etc. The
total charges represent at least Is. 3d. per
case, extending to the whole of his consign-
ment, nart of which is sometimes condemned
i arrival. Freight is rising and cases are
getting dearer through the “passing on”
game, and when things are sorted out. the
man on the land grows, packs and ships a
case of tomatoes, when the market in good,
for less than 2s. od., which does not give him
a living wage, while 12s. 3d. is added before
the stuff reaches the consumer. Meantime,
while the real producer thus well-nigh
starves, the blessed middlemen sport fat
cigars, and the daily papers tell the young
man to go on the land.
From “Cowslip,” who has earned six-and-
eightpence on both sides of the Murray:—
The procedure in the inferior courts of Vic. is
a long way behind that in N. S. Wales. In the first
place Victoria has no chamber magistrate to see
that a prima facie case exists before the issue of a
summons. In Victoria ■ the informations and com-
plaints are drawn by a solicitor, who can see a fee
for appearance looming ahead. The solicitor takes
his client next door or over the street to the
nearest J.P., who feels flattered to append his name
to such an important document, and lo! the sum-
mons is issued. The bulk of the cases in the subur-
ban courts in Melbourne come before a Bench of
honorary magistrates, with the local Mayor as chair-
man. That system makes it next to impossible to con-
vict a criminal so long as he has influential friends or
money. In N.S.W. the arresting detective lines his
man up for identification with others of about the
same age. In Vic. the prisoner is confronted single-
handed before a witness, who is asked if he can
identify him. In N.S.W. witnesses are ordered out of
court during the hearing; in Vic. witnesses for tjie
Crown, as well as for the defence, remain in court.
In cases where the defence relies on an alibi (the
best that can be prepared), the advantage of the
N.S.W. procedure is obvious. In N.S.W. the jury
list is kept secret until the panel is called in open
court, and when once the jury is sworn it never
separates until a verdict is returned or the crowd
disagrees. In Vic., by payment of 25.. the prisoner
can obtain a week or so before trial the list of the
jurors, together with their addresses and occupa-
tions. Here comes in the chance of the professional
jury-rigger. But if this chance be not taken, the
need not be altogether downhearted. The
jurors may have their dinners at any hotel they
wish, and at night (except in capital cases) they go
wherever they please.
+
From a man who doesn’t feel comfortable;—
Though not in the earth’s volcanic belt, Sydney is
any day liable to be blown skyhigh. Ships are in
the habit of coming up the harbor with considerably
over the 125-tons limit set on explosive cargoes, and
they hang around in the way of tug, punt or ferry
till the prevailing congestion permits them to unload.
Some six years ago the unloading depot for railway
transhipment was removed to Ilomebush Bay—on
paper. As a matter of fact, it is still in Darling
Harbor, around whose shores residents fix dates by
sea collisions, railway accidents, etc. When the -in-
evitable takes place in the open harbor the problem
of rebuilding Sydney will be simplified; and when
it happens in Darling Harbor the slum problem of
Pyrmont, Ultimo and Lang Ward will resolve itself.
Incidentally, the S. M. Herald will have to issue
several special editions to hold all the funeral
notices. In case sufficient damage should not be
done otherwise throughout the city, stores are over-
charged with benzine, naphtha, petrol and other ex-
plosives, and the fire brigade, which is a fine body of
brave men, gets hot and cold shivers when the risks
are mentioned. Each of these minor volcanoes is up
to destroying a couple of city blocks. The chain is com-
pleted by motor-lorries laden with hundreds of gallons
of liquid Sheol; these dash along the congested streets
seeking whom or what they mav collide with. I once
saw a drum of naphtha explode, and when a lorry-
lwd does it I only want to view it through a good
telfiscope.
A Ballad of the Villages.
[FOR T HEB BULLETIN.]
Just over 10 years ago a little band of six' women
held a meeting. The leader of the six was Mrs.
Clarke. With, her were Mrs. F. G. Hughes, Miss
Sara Derham, Mrs. William Kjdgell, Mrs. C.
O’Brien and Mrs. Percy Douglas (of Geelong).
When Mrs. A, E. Clarke first mentioned the need
for the political education of women to Mrs. F. G.
Hughes, one Sunday night on the way home from
church, there was no thought that the organisation,
which was to be the outcome of that conversation,
would one day own 52,000 members. Yet 'to-day
the A.W.N.L. has. ... .can. . , .will. . . .should. . . .ought
... .might. .. .save Australia.—Argus (22-/5/’ 14).
From ten Exhausted Villages loud jedrs in
splendor rise :
“Behold the Six, the noble Six ! —the
leaders proud and wise!
All hail unto these harbingers, these female
captains, strong,
And don’t forget the visitor; —the lady from
Geelong!
‘When Britain first at Heaven’s command
came crawling from the Ark,
V ho would have thought to see this day!’
chants dear Britannia Clarke.
Then let us sing like everything—the
, League is strong to save;
Defiance breathe, ye I’arTingtons, at
Socialism’s wave!”
From nine Exhausted Villages, whose popu-
lation slides,
A shriek goes up (in sarabands each
League-apostle glides) :
“’Twas after Church our President forth-
spake those noble words
Which stirred the heart of Flinders-lane
r where Eat with Shoddy herds !
The vicar’s moan that evening it came from
Pander’s heart,
And stirred the twain to think of those who
dwell in Gloom apart!
Let Mrs. Hughes expound her views! O
Leaguers in conclave,
See Mrs. Hughes arise and bounce' the
Socialistic wave !”
From eight Exhausted Villages, where
Trade’s as dead as Troy.
Oh, hear .the; anthem glorious peal forth in-
swelling joy: . ’. (
“It was _ the Six, the OnlV Six, who met
sooii after that,
jAfffi VTfTmk their tea and fed' the cake to
f -Algernon, the, cat! ;
|\nd Whilst the- purring Algernon walked
t round the satin pack,
p-tspoke the leader of the band, Britannia,
of Toorak! -
She said, ‘Ahem ! Poor things! For them
,!i the outlook’s very grave-
We’ll have to teach the truth to each re
g Socialism’s- wave!’ ” . 1
3 :
From seven Exhausted Villages, where Debt
1 and Mortgage cling, A
Hear now the stately Presidents their little
i solos sing:
“Another said, ‘Dear Mrs. Hughes,'suppose
we form a League ?
Dear Mr. Fat will speak for us! We’ll
! cackle and intrigue !
We’ll really have, to educate, the wives of
working men —
They've all got votes! It’s terrible! In
each brat-littered den
We’ll, have to sniff and tell them, dears, to
stand like women brave
And help us save Australia from the
Socialistic wave!’ ”
From six Exhausted Villages, whose sons
and daughters flee,
Hear each committee echoing its psalm of
Fatted glee:
“And then another of the six, she made a
little speech
About the Throne and Home, you know —
how they would have to teach
The wives of low artificers to shudder at the
name
Of Sosli and Soshful candidates like devils
breathing flame !
‘The Throne and Home! Yes. that's the
thing! With each profound Gor’
Save’
We’ll pile more votes from Partingtons
’gainst Socialism’s wave!”
From five Exhausted Villages, whose streets
are paved on Loans.
Hear now the Pious Editors uplift their
faithful moans :
“We are the band of Acolytes who caught
the whisper low—
‘Tell how the Six, the noble Six, will banish
pain and woe !
Breathe in the ears of womankind this
message from Toorak —
Britannia Clarke will comfort you and
smooth your stony track,
And all the time, incessantly, in “leaders”
shocked and' grave,
Say how the land is threatened with this
Socialistic wave!’ ”
From four Exhausted Villages, where
Bumble-brained .Tay Pees
Lay down the law with tongue and claw,
the Inky Slaves still wheeze:
“We wrote the leading articles, the para-
graphs, and told
llow this same Six had vowed themselves
like saintly ones of old !
Ilow Mrs. Hughes would educate, would
stoop sc very low
To teach poor, helpless womenfolks how
Sosli would strike a blow
Against their sovran liberties —a fine, free
ad. we gave,
And flung our inkpots valiantly at Socialism’s
wave!”
From three Exhausted Villages the printers’
devils yell:
“Stop! Hold the press a shake or two!
We’ve got a tale to tell!
When Mrs. Hughes came spoutin’ here, we
ran with copy-takes
From Smooge, the cringing editor, who sat
among the cakes!
The firm of Smooge and Mockery, which
runs the country press,
It yarded up the lambs for her with sancti-
moniousness !
All Organised Hypocrisy arose with banners
brave
When Mrs. Hughes arose to quell the
Socialistic wave!”
From two Exhausted Villages the comps,
lift their -refrain :
“We set the tale that we were told—how
Sosh’s name was Cain !
From Smooge and Wowsing Mockery, who
,o£t exhorts each pew,
Extolling Toorak’s sacrifice the sainted
‘copy’ flew!
And we who set the balderdash, we rise to
testify
That men may work and cogitate—the
Spider snares the Fly!
The country press a toady is, and Smooge
a crawling knave
Who smirks and fakes with Mockery this
Socialistic wave !”
From one Exhausted Village yet a voice
ascends in pain—
The voice of Truth ! — a personage Fat
passes with disdain:
“Let fifty thousand multiply the ignorance
of one,
Yet Ignorance is Ignorance till Folly’s day
is done!
And Mrs. Hughes complacently hath mul-
tiplied herself —
She is the handmaid excellent who greatly
pleases Pelf! ...
Her ignorance invincible makes myriad
creatures rave—
Their votes keep Fat afloat upon the
Socialistic wave!”
Lord, look upon these Villages where proud
Britannia Clarke
And Mrs. Hughes,' the President, have set
their Tory mark!
Look dotvn upon Victoria, from Casterton
to Sale, ‘
And see a State that's mostly head and very
little tail!
It is the State where Ignorance might well
lift up its head —
A State where Fat is Emperor—the popu-
lation's fled!
And what I say is simply this —to dig Aus-
tralia's grave
We only need six silly dames and Fat’s vote-
fooling wave! .
VICTORIA-
GRANT HERVEY.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
Estab. 1768 ~1
1 Estab 17421
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OP THE PEOPLE.
"A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
r
pOOBD&SOK
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
M
Swift & Company L.td., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
M
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request,
of the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine & Spirit Merchants,
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors,
Tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat & Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons,
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairy
Farmers, Makers of Aerated \\ a ter,
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water,
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made,
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairy
Factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
atus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS&CO. Ltd., Wharf St., Brisbane, Q-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
" Fit Majesty's “Gipsy Love.”
Royal Harry Lauder.
Calace “Silence of Dean Maitland.’’
Adelpxii “Queen of the Redskins.”
Little Theatre “The School for Scandal.”
Tivoli Mclntoh s Vaudeville Co.
National Theatre .... Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
Lyceum Spencer s Pictures.
Olympia. ~ West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Sealed Orders.”
King’s Maud Allan.
Royal “Never Say Die.”
Princess’s “The Rosary.”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Auditorium Harold Bauer.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Majestic Spencer's Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville.
■ ♦
Pianist Leonard Borwick’s long forelock
is still waggling over his flying fingeis m
the Concordia Hall (Sydney). Before knock-
ing the nonsense out of a concert grand be
takes a cautious tally of the late arrivals.
Having watched them into their squeaking
chairs, he begins. Monday evening’s pro-
gramme was starred with a brilliant arrange-
ment of Bach’s organ fugue in G minor, by
Borwick. Bach is a stiff-kneed composer,
and has to be handled with care. The Eng-
lish pianist has moved him so gently from
organ to piano that he’ll never know it.
Scartalli’s brilliant chirpy music was
sampled in “Three Harpsicord Lessons.”
The Borwick fingers rippled all over the
ivory keys, and there was great crossing of
hands (a feature of Scarlatti’s volatile
charm) and much setting-to-partners of
rumbling chords. A solid slab of Chopin
(Sonata 2 in B minor) and a meaty helping
of Schumann contributed to a programme
of extraordinary interest. By the time
Borwick had reached the thunderclap of
Liszt’s Hungarian Rhapsody No. 12, the
Young Person, who was present in batta-
lions, was sitting forward on her chair, with
starting eyes and quivering hair-bows, to
split her new white gloves in honor of the
pianist.
* # -i ; *
The Fable: A Sweet Young Country Girl
was “Lured to London”; but she had a
Revolver in her Pocket, which shows
she was about as Trusting as a Jew Pawn-
broker and as Innocent as a Yankee Police-
Inspector. When the Rank Outsider had
Lured her to the Horrid Room in the Slum,
and started to Do His Dirty Work, she
showed him the Gun and he Shrank Back.
The People’s Parson was supposed to be All
There with his Fists, and the Hoarse Bur-
glar with the Parrot’s-Beak Nose fell down
when the Reverend Gent, removed his Hat
and Coat with Care and massaged the Atmo-
sphere with some Ferocity. The Burglar
seemed to be Overcome with Astonishment;
obviously he hadn’t Expected that the Par-
son could fight well enough to prove that he
was Every Inch an Actor. A Country Bobby
was more or less Involved. He had a Red
Wig and Did Things With His Face. His
Exertions occasionally raised a Fresh Young
Laugh; every time this Happened the
Bobby smiled as if he had been Paid for the
Sweat of his Brow. The Village Carpenter,
who was as Honest as the Day and some
sort of Relation to the Village Blacksmith,
had a tangled Grey Wig that made him look
like a Dog. But he was No Dog! No! he
was the Dear Old Daddy of the Sweet Young
Country Girl with the Gun, and he wore his
Spreading Hat over one eye like the Silver
King; he was also as Stupid as he was
Good, and he had a Way of Telling Male
Callers that, if Anything Happened to His
Little Girl, he would Strangle the Wretch
With His Own Hands. This Bright Idea must
have been Passed Round the Village, be-
cause His Little Girl was so short of Boys
that she had to Put in Time by being Lured
to London with a Gun in her Pocket. That
is not All, but it will Do for the Present.
The Season Ends at the Palace (Sydney)
on Friday night, after which the Energetic
Leading Lady who Runs and Shouts like a
Merry Child at Play will cease being a de-
serving Waif who looks Too Stout to be
Really Pathetic.'
* * # *
The Moral: There comes a Time in the
Career of every Lady-Waif when even her
Friends are no longer Carried Away, and
say Quite Openly that they Wish she would
Play Camille instead.
* * * *
Harry Lauder is still giving temperance
singing lessons to large and enthusiastic
bands of students at Sydney Royal, whilst
leaning on tortured lengths of timber. The
Scotch comedian’s efforts to wring a little
humor out of his walking props is one of
the painful features of his show. The
twisted things suggest rheumatism, gout,
goitre, elephantiasis and the limbs of a
poor.heretic who has been unlucky enough to
survive some snecial experiments of the
Spanish Inquisition.
“Gipsy Love” opens at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday night.
* * * *
In case there may be any misunderstand-
ing, Tiie Bulletin hastens to explain that
“The Girl Who Took the Wrong Turning,”
now on show at the Adel phi, is not a religi-
ous drama founded on the yarn of Lot’s wife
and the hundredweight or two of salt; it is
simply another of Walter Melville’s excuses
for passing off his latest collection of
euphonious names at a profit. A misguided
young lady and a Society cat with a fash-
ionable name are jointly responsible for the
play with the absurdly long title. They
have already made themselves objectionable
at the Adelphi, and their second innings will
close to-morrow night. “The Queen of the
Redskins” will follow —another resurrection,
which will display its mixture of blood and
Red Indian for six nights.
AT THE SALON-DE-LUXE. SYDHEY.
The Fish Walk.
The guessing competition, “Who Murdered
Mr. Argyle?” still continues at Sydney Cri-
terion.
* * * *
Hugh Buckler’s revival of Sheridan’s “The
School for Scandal” is attracting good audi-
ences at the Little Theatre.
* * * *
Tiie Bulletin has become so tired of
announcing that Ada Reeve is still at the
Tivoli, and the Box Office has of late de-
veloped such a mournful expression on
account of having to turn away good cash,
that between them they have formed a local
Black Hand Society to suppress extremely
popular artists, and Ada Reeve is hereby
advised to look out. Talleur Andrews, Reade
and Vivien Talleur, ventriloquist Carr, and
Farr and Farland have also been entered
up, but their fate is going to be mild com-
pared with Miss Reeve’s.
;]j v
The Glaciarium is beginning to get back
its punch, and skating enthusiasts are be-
coming . more numerous; and the process
would be much more rapid if it didn’t cost
quite so much to become enthusiastic. Still
the mere fact that such a crowd is willing
to spar up for itself and its girl is a pretty
healthy sign. A weekly hockey match on
the ice is now on the bills, and hockey on
the ice leaves Rugby in the mud miles behind
as far as excitement goes.
❖ sj: ❖ *
Brennan-Fuller’s Sydney management has
commenced its experiment of giving two
shows a day at the National Amphitheatre
—one at 2.30, the other at 8. There was an
encouraging attendance at the early per-
formance on Monday (King’s birthday), but
whether the innovation will catch on as a
general thing is another matter. It isn’t
likely to catch on with the performers, any-
how. They’ll think it’s nearly as strenuous
as being home in U.S., where most of them
come from. If an attractive programme will
induce the public to drop in to the National
during spare afternoons, this week’s is a sure
winner. It’s all fresh off the American
mail boat.
❖ * * *
Under the direction of Dix and Baker (of
Newcastle) cinematographed performances
of that old-timer, “The Silence of Dean
Maitland,” will be given at the Palace, Syd-
ney, for the next week, commencing on
Saturday. Raymond Longford adapted and
produced the piece locally for the Fraser
Film Release Co.
* * * *
To “Constant Reader,” “Paterfamilias,”
and “Mother of Ten, all Boys”: (1) The
address of the Imperial Salon de Luxe is
William-street, Sydney; (2) afternoon 4 to
6, evening 8 to 11; (3) plain and fancy
tango, warmed-up bunny hug, tea, coffee and
sundries.
It has always seemed to The Bulletin
that the most ardent critics of musical-in-
strument playing divide their attention be-
tween the, craftsmanship which they see and
the effects which they hear, and that the
soundest critics should be either blind
or shut off from the performer by a
screen. If this doctrine is sound, then it
is certain that the’true test of a violinist’s
ability as a maker of high-class music is the
amount of pleasure he gives to those among
the audience who are too far away to be in-
fluenced by his personal mannerisms, and by
any evidence of that manual dexterity which
keeps closer observers thinking of him as a
juggler. Evidently yVlischa Elman, who in-
troduced himself to; Australia at Melbourne
Auditorium last Saturday, was satisfactory
to everybody in the crowded building. The
waybacks applauded as heartily as the
people in the front seats, and they couldn’t
all have been charmed by Mischa Elman’s
reputation merely. The musical effect of his
playing was always interesting to every-
body, which the performance of the average
competent fiddler certainly is hot. The most
delicate strains he produces are not quite 2 so
marvellously delicate as Kubelik’s best. And
he can’t draw the same richness of amorous
feeling from the fiddle-strings (“greasy,
fried-fish feeling,” the late Van Biene called
it) as Ovide Musin did of yore—Australia
has never heard another violinist so sen-
suous as Musin. Nor was his rendering of
the “Ave Maria” (Schubert-Wilhelmj) more
deeply devotional than could be ex-
pected of a genial genius who perhaps for-
gets to say his prayers when he is tired.
.Toy of life is the predominant characteristic
in young Mischa’s playing, though there is
something of melancholy in his tenderest
notes that suggests an Irish ballad. This
was noticeable in the second and third move-
ments of the “Symphonie Espagnoli” (Lalo)
for violin and orchestra. He was gay and
humorous in dance pieces given as encores,
and he provided some delightful movements
when the instrument sang or whistled with
equal melodiousness. He used two instru-
ments during the evening, and both were
perfectly amiable. They never uttered a
harsh word. Finally Mischa Elman com-
mended himself to the voracious feeders pre-
sent by giving them three or four encores
after the programme was completed. There’s
nothing.of the superior prig about this glori-
fied artist. He plays good nature for all it
is worth.
AT THE IMPERIAL SALON-DE-LUXE,
SYDNEY. —Rags and Tango.
Miss Eva Gauthier sang several songs
during the evening, beginning with Rosina’s
aria from the “Barber of Seville.” The
French lady’s voice is rather hard, and her
intonation is often guilty of sharp practice,
but she sings artistically enough, and her
platform tricks and manners help to make
her a success. As for the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra, consisting largely of suf-
fragettes, its proficiency came as a glad sur-
prise to the bulk of the audience. Con-
ductor Alberto Zelman has done wonders
with his band of enthusiasts. The
Orchestra played the “Merry Wives” over-
ture admirably, and supported the star
through the symphony in a way that caused
him to shake the conductor with both hands.
The fourth of the Mischa Elman concerts
is due on Saturday (13th).
* * * *
Meanwhile, Harold Bauer, pianist, is
another powerful musical attraction at the
Auditorium. Bauer’s second recital hap-
pens to-night (Thursday), and again on
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday next week
he and the piano will have the platform to
themselves. This is musical carnival time
at the Audi.
ifc % 5*C
“Never Say Die,” at the Royal, continues
to put much money in the managerial
purse. Under its surface of droll
absurdity is the gratifying suggestion that
cocktails are the elixir of life, or at least
the antidote to whatever disease the. doctors
have pronounced to be fatal. Dionysius
wrestling with Death in restaurants is an
inspiring thought for the 'masses. He does
more than recover his lost health by running
counter to medical advice. He gets strong
enough to resist the deadly foolishness of
the stage kid who comes along to talk about
a dawg.
sjc
At Her Majesty’s the 15 scenes of
“Sealed Orders” are telling the same broken
narrative as before. The troubled burglar,
haunted by fears of a knock on the head and
a knife in his back, is still following the
golden-image “clue” into the clouds, and the
young man with a small letter in his pocket
invariably tries to drown himself rather
than produce it as clear proof that it is not
a large official document in a sealed envelope.
Malcolm Tearle plays an unreasonable young
man all the time, but he is supremely ridicu-
lous when he takes extreme measures to get
himself wet.
* * * *
Maud Allan and the three Cherniavskys,
who will have a considerable orchestra to
assist them, are to open their dance and
music entertainment at the King’s next
Saturday (13th). Melbourne remembers
the musical, brethren as very young and
promising boys in velvet suits with red trim-
mings, and the city knows Maud by reputa-
tion as a lady who dances in bare feet and
light draperies, thus reviving the .alleged
ancient art of Greece. Prices for the season
range from 7s. 6d. downwards for ordinary
mortals, but two vice-regal reserves at 10s.
6d. are available for the exclusive few.
* * * *
“The Rosary” runs until Tuesday at the
Princess’s, and next night an “Aladdin
Pantomime,” otherwise described as a Rag-
time Revue, will start operations. Grace
Palotta and Carrie Moore are chiefly con-
cerned in this approaching outbreak; also
startling specialties are predicted. The first
matinee of the “Aladdin Pantomime” will
appeal to the frivolous on Wednesday, the
17th.
Winifred Ward, a boy impersonatress, is
the latest to look in at Melbourne Tivoli.
A considerable amount of “go” and a large
endeavor to depict the nut give the visitor a
likeness to Claire Romaine, though she
hasn’t Claire’s command of ginger nor the
same lady’s strength of voice. The Shen-
tons, songsters and dancers, commit the sin
of being dull in Western Amurkan raiment,
while Vallecita’s leopards remain the same
doleful examples of animal intelligence.
Fields in his noiseless jugglery is as funny
as ever, though Ed. E. Ford is funnier when
he narrates the sad story of the pore ole
blacksmith who collided frequently with the
gin bottle in a ’eart-broken search for the
betrayer of his daughter.
$
This week’s favorites at Melbourne Bijou
are the Carlo Mai acrobats and wire-walkers,
the Dimitritresen band of horizontal bar
performers, and Brent Hayes, the tricky
banjoist. Two newcomers, Gruet and Gruet,
show that they have no lofty ideals in the
matter of burnt-cork entertainment, while
the Vienna Trio effectively supply a sort of
music.
* * * *
Though somewhat hackneyed in its plot,
“An American Citizen,” at West’s Mel-
bourne house, has the merit of being particu-
larly well acted by a company headed by
John Barrymore, a notable Yankee with a
large wardrobe and emphatic histrionic
methods. “Duty” serves some purpose as a
temperance tract, while the Italian Cavalry
item shows how Guiseppe Spaghetti is edu-
cated for the business of war.
SPECTATORS AT THE SALON-DE-
LUXE, SYDNEY, becoming infected with
the Tango germ.
Concerning another Melbourne show of
art, etc.: —
Some interesting works by oversea Australians
figure in the present show of the Australian Art Asso-
ciation at Melbourne Athenaeum. Fullwood forwards
a consignment of rather mournful-looking scenery;
David Davies sends a farmhouse and a twilight study ;
and Streeton frames some threatening weather observed
in the neighborhood of Berwick-on-Tweed. Rupert
Bunny is again vividlv intense in his devotion to the
lounging balcony female, and a quartette of heads
by G. W. Lambert provide lessons in drawing to one
or two other artists in the show. James Quinn, a
lion-hunter nowadays, hangs a section of George Reid


THe World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
•Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
M
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P*t*y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & Adelaide,/
Sole
Agents.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. s . j. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch . 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
’Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
as a recent trophy of the chase. The portrait is ex-
cellent, though part of the lower chest is crowded
out, and you get only an abridgment or synopsis of
the real article. Among the locals Fred McCubbin
reveals his insurgent fancy for springtime effects;
Ambrose Patterson has nearly a dozen subjects where-
of “A Studio Interior” is the most impressivle;
Julian and Howard Ashton are satisfactorily repre-
sented ; and Edward Officer’s contributions are good,
barring his “Frosty Morning, Normandy,” which is
a dull statement of fact with a few poplars put in for
punctuation. Clewin Harcourt is most engrossing in
his still-life achievement (No. 8) ; in his “Smoky
River Yarra” his art is flyin"- signals of distress.
Hans Heysen is highly successful in his picture of
turkeys and gum saplings; but Miss Sothern’s flat
landscape called “Evensong” is rendered in ragtime,
so to speak. Ten etchings and half a dozen water-
colors by J. M. Mather demonstrate the touch of an
earnest hand, while a bunch of water-colors by the
indefatigable McClintock hint at that artist’s affec-
tion for sandy solitudes and ti-tree scrub. Pen Boyd’s
£2OO canvas, “The River,” is something to yawn
over, but his water-color view from Mount Welling-
ton is charming. Norman Carter’s portraits are
strongly drawn, if rather melancholic. Web Gilbert’s
“Psyche” is not so alluring as his best work. In
fact, the young lady might just as well be called
Liza.
* 4= * *
The “Aladdin” pantomime, good but not
great, has ceased to drag in the names of
Adelaide men {apropos of nothing parti-
cular) at the Royal in that town. “Come
Over Here” goes one better. It drags in
the men themselves, making a praiseworthy
try to be as topical as a real revue ought to
be, and as the imitation article generally
isn’t. The Spider’s Web and other inci-
dents are much as before ; the through-the-
slalls entrance was anticipated in the panto,
aforesaid. Leroy, Talma and Bosco hold
the King’s, and are doing tremendous busi-
ness. Incidentally, they are doing that
house a useful turn by bringing to it —just
as the Tango Teas did to the Tivoli—
patrons who have never been inside it be-
fore. _ The clever illusionists make a mis-
take in having two intervals, especially as
the extra turns of music and dance are so
popular that the principals have ample time
for change or rest. To set an audience
wondering what the time may be is asking
for trouble. At the Tivoli are Gertrude
Gebest and the six Camerons. Also some
young Australians are doing good work:
Clardy brothers in athletics. Hennessy and
Martel as jugglers. Alexander Watson lias
just started Shakspearian recital at the
Victoria Hall, and in the Butterflies’ show
at the Town Hall Waller and Dennett have
put together a long ragtime but musieianly
arrangement which they call a Concerto.
Among the pictures Wondergraph is asking
patrons to decide the awkward question
whether an affectionate wife is justified in
helping a suffering husband out of the world.
The Empire has a good Sherlock Holmes
drama. “The Miracle” has moved on from
West’s to Port Adelaide, which town begins
to fancy itself as a supnorter of shows.
One recent evening its Town Hall stage
actually entertained Julius Knight, and as
much of “A Royal Divorce” as could find
room.
Melba has been singing at Covent Garden for
quarter of a century; yet she never warbled on the
opening night of an operatic season until April 20
this year, when she started things in “La Boheme.”
Though there was great enthusiasm, some of the
critics hinged that she is not as young as she once
was. The Times discerned a “decrease of power” in
her voice, though the Morning Post, to restore the
balance, declared that “the passage of time makes
no difference in her charming impersonation and
'■'■'autiful bird-like tone.”
AT THE SALON-DE-LUXE, SYDNEY.—
The Bendrodt Dip.
“Cove”: The revival of “The School for Scandal”
in Sydney recalls that the first appearance of George
Coppin in Melbourne in 1845 was in “The Lady of
Lyons,” his second in “The School for Scandal.” Its
popularity in that period may be judged by the fact
that it was the opening piece at the Melbourne
Theatre Royal in 1855, and also began Barry Sulli-
van’s management there in 1863. I notice mention
of Forbes’s excellent Rowley. Right good he was
also as Sir Oliver Surface in a Melbourne production
by Bellew and Potter. As Sir Peter Teazle, Rogers
was matchless in Australia. Atholwood’s Rowley
was the gem of the worst performance I ever saw
with Nance O’Neil as Lady Teazle. Splendid as the
comedy is to me, it is Frenchy. not hearty Old Eng-
lish. Everybody drops diamonds and pearls from the
lips.
AT POVERTY POINT.
SLIPPING.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
In obedience to a clerical protest, a line was
altered in the Goulburn production of “The Runaway
Girl.” Brother Tamarind just said: “I feel myself
slipping,” omitting the words, “away from celibacy.”
Said young Brother Tamarind: “Oh, I am slipping!”
As round and around him a siren went skipping.
It shocked us to look at a Tamarind tripping—-
A monk who goes googoo deserves a good whipping.
So we bade them curtail his irreverent quipping,
That they might not encourage the flippant in flip-
ping ;
And yet in my own wicked heart I am tipping
That when he was dumb as to where he was slipping
He meant just as much as he did ere the clipping.
N.S.W. a.
“0.K.”: There is hope for a city where an intel-
lectual monologue entertainer can make good as
Alexander Watson has done in Melbourne. He opened
some weeks ago to an audience that half-filled the
Athenaeum Hall, and he stayed there a fortnight, or
more, because the audiences had doubled. He was
reciting plays, poems and short stories to “capacity”
business. Then he returned to Melbourne to give
some extra “farewells” at the Auditorium, and the
big building was crowded. Now he is coming again
to “definitely farewell” on the 13th and 20th, before
going north. No one-man show of the sort has been
quite so attractive since the early days of the Rev.
Chas. Clarke at the Town Hall. And Clarke, in
those days, didn’t have to be an acquired taste with
Australian audiences as Watson is. The benign-looking
parson appealed directly to the English interests of
people born in Britain who were full of Dickens and
Thackeray, and who rolled up in their thousands to
hear Clarke’s discourse on Westminster Abbey and
its “illustrious dead.” Australian natives were a
small minority in Melbourne when Clarke achieved
his booms ; moreover, they had been mostly educated
in ancient English reverence for Westminster Abbey
and the Tower of London. The time came when Aus-
tralians were the large iffiroijty, and Charles Clarke
ceased to attract. Then came Alexander Watson, a
more versatile and more dramatic monologist, who
offers a wide variety of subjects to a new-fashioned
public, and he gathers popularity as he goes along.
The strain on his mental and physical powers must
be great. Compare his work with that of even the
most heavily-taxed actors, who have only one long
part to play in an evening and go on repeating the
same lines for weeks and months at a stretch. Yet
Watson sticks to his task, and, as a matter of fact, is
in better health than when ha made his first trip to
Australia.
“ NEVER SAY
D.E,” AT MEL-
BOURNE
ROYAL.
THE LOVESICK
CHEF, VERCHESI
(MAURICE
DUDLEY).
“Oeames”: Parsons like the Rev. Yarrington, and
uninstructed folks in general, talk shudderingly of
what they call “the arrival of the tango in Sydney,”
As a matter of fact, it hasn’t arrived at all, except
for exhibition purposes. No one executes it at pri-
vate dances. At the Imperial Salon a couple of
professionals demonstrate its awful intricacies; and
perhaps once in the evening the non-professional ele-
ment is given a chance to show what it can do.
The response is invariably a whole-hearted refusal to
take the venture on. Half a dozen couples, at the
most, invade the floor. And they do not “tango”:
they “rag.” To confuse “tangoing’’ with “ragging”
is equivalent to mixing up chess and dominoes.
The rag is last year’s one-step, bunny hug, Turkey
trot, or what not, in a slightly elaborated form.
Anyone of ordinary intelligence, who is free from
gout, deformed feet or extreme old age, can pick up
the basic steps of the rag in 10 minutes. That is
why it has been such an instantaneous and howling
success all over the world—that and the startling
intimacy of it, as it was first danced by a consider-
able section. The latter feature was responsible for
London Punch’s cartoon of a youth who had asked
“Do you Turkey trot?” being told menacingly by
the spirit of British male respectability, “No, but I
kick.” What one may term the pornographv of rag-
ging has long since expired. Use has killed it as
it has killed everything else of the sort, from divided
skirts to mixed bathing. The commonplace refuses
to be suggestive. With it have also vanished those
who only went to dances in the spirit which so
scandalised Punch, leaving behind a residue of
genuine dance-lovers. It is significant that amongst
these people the rag is quickly going out of favor.
It has been useful for the purpose of suggesting new
steps, and these are now being embodied in the
old, imperishable waltz, which has been thereby
given a new lease of life. At the William-street
(Sydney) Salon there are already as many waltzes
on the programme as there are rags; and the total
decease of the latter is apparently only a matter of
time.
“H.S.”: It is possible to do a star almost as much
damage by over-advertisement as by the other thing.
Take the case of Harry Lauder. His ingratiating
grin, his kilts and his dreadful legs gleam from every
hoarding in the cause of different whiskies, teas, etc. ;
and the journals on which the press-agents chiefly
prey are filled to nausea with him. Many theatre-
goers are thus sickened of Henry before they see him ;
others are sick afterwards, not because he is no
good, but because of all the needless fuss that has
been created. There is nothing more irritating than
to pay out good money to see a dinosaur, and to be
then shown a very useful but unsensational cow.
Old Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, rejuvenated under her
maiden name of Rose Edouin, was one of the star
performers in the recent Shakspeare Birthday cele-
brations at Stratford-on-Avon. She played Dame
Quickly in “The Merry Wives,” and took all the
honors in the resurrection of an Elizabethan farce
by one Henry Porter, titled “The Two Angry Women
of Abington.” The farce, stripped of its ancient
obscenities, was said to be a boresome curiosity
for the most part, but the ex-Melbourne lady got a
good advt. out of it.
“BESS OF ARIZONA,” AT THE
PALACE (SYDNEY).—A FEW OF
THE INGREDIENTS.
Villainous ingredient, F. Sheppard; noble
ingredient, Robert Inman; comic ingredient,
John Cosgrove.
Passing gleam in the N.S.W. Equity Court (luring
last week’s row over “Sealed Orders”: —“His Honor:
‘I can conceive of only two reasons why the case has
been so keenly contested. One is, that the parties
wished to assist the Bar. The alternative is desire to
advertise the play.’ ”
■ '“Theorbo”: This is the unsavory story of the
Wagner family embroglio, of which the cables give
us shreds. Liszt, afterwards Abbe, bolted with the
wife of the Count d’Agoult, and had three daughters
by her. One was Cosima, who married Bulow. They
had two daughters, and then Wagner carried her off
in 1864. After that she had three children, Isolde,
Siegfried and Eva. The last two are undoubted
Wagners, and Isolde was considered one also until
lately. Then she quarrelled with her mother over a
money matter, whereupon Mamma turns round and
says: “You’re not a Wagner at all; you’re a Bulow.”
Hence these tears, and Isolde trying to get a legal
pronouncement of her Wagnerian propagation. The
immediate cause of the bobbery is a dispute between
Siegfried and Isolde’s husband, Mamma siding with
Siegfried. Wagner married Cosima in 1870, and
their ante-nuptial children were legitimated; there
were none after the marriage.
Fred Duval, one of the best known of the
Australian advance agents of 20 and more years
ago, has just recovered from a long spell of sickness
at Greymouth (M.L.), where he has settled down
handy ito his old boss, Tom Pollard.
“Harrison O.”: As depicted in “Sealed Orders,” the
modern W. Sikes is a genius with an infinite capa-
city for taking unnecessary pains. When Bill and his
mate wish to enter a diamond merchant’s office they
get into a room above and proceed to hammer their
way through the floor and ceiling; though, having
gained access to the building, there seems no reason
why they should not enter the office by the door,
which the proprietor, with that child-like trust in
human nature peculiar to persons called Cohen, leaves
unlocked. Sikes and his accomplice pay their visit
a few minutes after the boss and his last client have
departed, and while a clerk is still in the room,
which they do not take the trouble to search. They
bring with them an elaborate oxy-acetylene apparatus
for making a hole in the safe containing £40,000
worth of jewels. An unwieldy affair, resembling a
patent fire-extinguisher, is connected with a gas
reservoir, on the next storey, by about 30ft. of
tubing, and the nozzle is then directed at the lock.
The machine makes such a noise that it almost
drowns the systematic shouting of Sikes to his col-
league on the upper floor, and it flares in a brilliant
manner. A much simpler and safer way would have
been to introduce a donkey-engine and crane and
lower the safe through the window on to a two-horse
lorry or a locomotive.
Charles Gulliver, manager of the London Palla-
dium, announced lately that he would present there
this month “a new Australian opera entitled ‘Stella,’
written and composed by an Australian named Dr.
Marshall Hall.” The Palladium is a big, twice-
nightly variety palace built on the site of the long-
popular Hengler’s Circus. It is not an ideal place
for the production of a new opera, but it is likely
enough that the Melbourne ex-professor could not
get a look in at Covent Garden. H. B. Irving is
also going into the Palladium with a new dramatic
production and a' probable revival of Papa’s most
famous play, “The Bells.”
Cecil King, the man who stages “Sealed Orders”
for the Williamson firm, speaks of an experience
he had as a nipper when he was playing an angel
in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” The angels had burst
forth in the heavens what time Little Eva’s soul was
quitting her body, to a niggah-hymn accompaniment.
But the setting of the heavens was so flimsy that
they broke under the weight of the little cherubim,
who fell in an angelic heap upon the stage.
The most disastrous railway accident in
Australian history—that at Sunshine (Vic.)
five years ago—was recalled the other even-
ing when an engine, shunting at that ter-
minus, got on the wrong line and crashed
into a waiting train load of passengers. The
engine happened to be going slowly, so be-
yond a broken bone or two and a few cuts
the voyagers suffered little bodily damage.
Only two of the carriages were damaged,
yet the authorities put the whole train aside
for inspection and left all hands, including
half a dozen wounded victims, to wait from
9.45 p.m. till 12.5 the next morning. They
had one consolation, at any rate —on that
bleak platform they didn’t want for some-
thing to think about.
From Saturday’s S. M. Herald :
GOOD HOME offered small Pet DOG or Persian
Kitten, no children. , Erskineville P.O.
The squatter won’t have employees with
encumbrances. The boarding-houses jib at
paying-guests with families. Flat-owners
refuse to let to persons who are afflicted
with children. And now the very animals
have joined the boycott against the national-
debt-and-defence burdened Australian kid.
It is over the odds.
The latest and least objectionable suffra-
gette is the girl who, during a “Royal Court”
at Buckingham Palace, fell gracefully on her
knees and, stretching out her arms in an
attitude of supplication, cried shrilly, “For
God’s sake, your Majesty, stop torturing
women !” Continues the cable :
At this the bandmaster signalled his band to play
loudly, and drown the interruption. The King and
Queen showed no evidence of surprise.
Wonderful! Still George and Mary have
been in training for this sort of thing. While
Mary sweeps along a palace corridor, think-
ing of nothing in particular, a speechless
Jeames suddenly presents her with a dead cat
on a salver, while another shivering menial
lies in wait for George with a handful of
old boots to be cleaned. And both Royal-
ties, after giving their respective examiners
the cold eye of Royal indifference, go their
ways unflinchingly, while the relieved menials
hurry to headquarters to report “all well.”
Thus it is that princelings remain in all emer-
gencies “unmoved” —like a dead whale or the
load of furniture the vanman forgot.
It is a fatal error to say the right thing
at the wrong time: the truth of which axiom
has once more been established by Premier
Holman, of N. S. Wales. While the good
old wooden-headed, newspaper-led ass-in-the-
street was still in that maudlin condition
which precedes clear judgment over the
world’s latest marine horror, Holman came
out briskly with one of those obvious remarks
which every other indent-agent and attorney
and grocer will be making a month hence.
Of course there was a howl of scandalised
amazement—just as there was when it was
first said that Dreadnausea was a mistake,
and the Boer war an error. The average
citizen —the sort that writes passionately to
the newspapers over the signature “British
Fairplay”—achieves his point of view in
regard to any big issue with portentous
slowness. When a great tragedy occurs it
is his habit to begin by sentimentalising in
the sloppiest possible way over all parties.
At the time of writing the daily papers are
playing up to this tendency by printing
mushy stories about a little girl burying a
strange little girl with beautiful fair hair, and
Conan Doyle’s alleged assertion that he can-
not believe in original sin because human
nature, as exposed in wrecks, is too beauti-
ful, and so on. But this particular drunk
soon nasses. The crowd then jumps swiftly
from lachrymose sympathy for all concerned
to wild, unreasoning rage against particular
individuals—a circumstance which the un-
happy Ismay, of the White Star Co., learned
to his cost when the Titanic disaster was a
week or so old. Holman’s offence last week
was that he said the directors of the co.
that owned the Empress of Ireland ought to
be made to stand their trial, if it is estab-
lished that there was anything like careless-
ness. Within a month many of those who
are shrieking about the infamy of such a
statement will be clamoring for the blood of
Sir Thomas Shaugnessy or someone similar,
with or without a trial. The whole art of
winning the approval of “Pro Bono Publico”
consists in knowing the right time to clamor.
One of those cases which suggest that
there is something wrong with the criminal
law was heard in Sydney, before Justice
Pring and a jury, last week. It concerned
the ineffectual shooting of Gilbert David
Irvine, a tailor’s cutter, by a barmaid named
Alice Rankin. Gilbert had told the old, old
glozing story to Alice, and after a while had
wearied of her and married another. Before
turning the unhappy Alice down, he had
promised to marry her (it looked a safe
promise at the time, since he was married),
had borrowed money from her, and
(she says) had induced her to pro-
cure several abortions. So the dis-
carded girl’s cup of grievance was
fairly well filled. When a stage arrived at
which the utensil refused to hold another
drop, she called at his place of business and
pumped a number of bullets into him. There
was no dispute as to the shots, and it is im-
possible to credit that she fired them for fun.
Yet the jury found her not guilty on the
ground that “there was no intent to mur-
der.” What the verdict really meant was
that, in the opinion of the jury, Gilbert
David Irvine ought to have been punished.
He came to court, on behalf of the Crown,
with a weird collection of slanderous lies
about the woman whose life he had more or
less spoiled, and thus he made her acquittal
on the attempted-murder charge cer-
tain. Had he shown a decent reluctance
to injure her further, and intimated to the
Court that perhaps he had got no more than
he deserved, it would have gone hard with
the girl. As it was, she thus far goes free
because Irvine is a unique variety of worm.
But (as the Law probably decided when it
sought her on a milder charge) Justice
of this sort is too rough altogether.
Lovers are being discarded brusquely every-
where, every dav of the week, and many of
them feel just as bad about it as this girl
did. Let it once be established that, if the
lady has been treated badly, she may safely
take the law into her own hands, and the
profits of the gun-shops will go up with a
bound, and every soft-goods establishment
will be liable to be a shambles at the busiest
part of the day.


D.J. Elk-Hide Shooting Boots
LIGHTWEIGHT—STRONG—WATERPROOF
ALTHOUGH these boots are specially made for shooting they are
equally suitable for any other rough-country wear, yet smart
in appearance. They are absolutely waterproof, being made
of a strong, pliable elk-hide, with the tongue sewn down the entire
length. The soles are ex-
tremely thick, and right
throughout they are exception-
ally strong and durable.
Compared with the stout
leather used, their weight is
wonderfully light, each pair
weighing only Procur-
able in tan or black. Height,
lOin.
SENT CARRIAGE PAID
throughout Australasia.
37/6
mr
©
it
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
■■■
I*
Kugelmarm’s
Pure Herbal
SRin Soap,
rt Beauty’s Aid. ”
Free Sample sent on Receipt of
Twope“nny Stamp.
Kugelinanii’s Pure Herbal Skin Soap may be ob-
tained at all Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia, at 2/6 per box of three large
tablets. obtainable locally, send Postal Note
or Stamps of any State, to the value of 3/- (includ-
ing postage), when box will be posted per return
mail.
' ♦
Sole Proprietors:
H. E. KUGELHANN & CO.,
Wholesale Druggists and Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen Street, MELBOURNE; Pitt Street,
SYDNEY; and at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Society
“Grand Old Flag” : The slim, slinky Las-
car generally has a secret store of silk
scarves and handkerchiefs hidden in his
bunk, and his one desire in going to sea
seems to be to haunt the likely weak-minded
mark who has betrayed signs of interest,
and wheedle and bluff him into paying a
large price for something that has been liv-
ing next to the vendor and his probable dis-
eases for long, steamy weeks. A desire to
get a particular scarf for my shore-girl
ruined a recent holiday trip of mine. I had
got a line as to the value of the thing through
once buying something like it from another
blot. But the second sea-pawnbroker, when
I opened negotiations by demanding a 50
per cent, reduction on liis first quotation,
intimated that I had broken his heart, and
went away to tenderly massage some brass-
work. I thought I had done with him; but
(hat night, as I was admiring the moonlit
THE JOB THAT WASN’T FINISHED .
MRS. THOMSON: “ T'here! That’s the rock I was nearly drowned on once.”
THOMSON: “Bah! That’s a fat lot of interest to me!”
sea with one of the most beautiful women I
have ever seen in my life, a cringing shadow
slithered to my side and whined, “Me ver’
poor man, sail - , 10 bob?” “No!” I shouted,
and he shuffled away noiselessly to drown.
Next day she and I were utterly alone by
the stern-rail, staring dreamily into blue
infinity, when a black octopus in a red tur-
ban flopped over the rail, squirmed worm-
ishly to my feet, and cried like a child in
the night: “Oh, me ver’ poor man, you give
nine shil’n’?” “Seven-and-six!” I said
firmly, and he gave a low moan of anguish
and went over the side to the lower deck
whence he had crawled at the risk of his
life. After that shock, the most beautiful
woman I had ever kissed at sea gave me up
in disgust, and I walked moodily by myself.
And every now and then, when I was least
expecting it, I would see the slim black hand
of Asia crooking a talon-like forefinger at
me from behind a ventilator, or discover a
countenance like a worn-out boot mouthing
noiselessly at me from a patch of shadow ;
and by night I had horrible dreams of being
wrecked with the black ruin, and dying
gradually of exposure, while he tried to sell
me a silk handkerchief in a dry whisper.
“Homo”: This is the kind of thing they
call economy in the Public Service. In the
Vic. Government Gazette of May 27
occurs the following :
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA,
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT.
ANNUAL AUDIT AND INSPECTION OF DEPOSI-
TORS’ PASS-BOOKS.
PURSUANT (etc., etc.), notice is hereby given
that Messrs. So-and-So have been appointed as Audi-
tors....and will attend for the purpose abovemen-
tioned at the Offices of the said State Savings Bank,
as hereunder: —
Then follow some 43 different metropolitan
and suburban branches, with a single line
allotted to each, giving the necessary dates
and times, and occupying (sensibly enough)
about five inches of space. But, then, they
spread themselves and reproduce this over
and over (save for the necessary alteration
as to name of locality and the other trifles
indicated) exactly SO times in succession,
covering seven acres of the costly production
in the process:—-
THE STATE SAVINGS BANK OF VICTORIA,
KOOKABURRA.
ANNUAL AUDIT AND INSPECTION OF DEPOSI-
TORS’ PASS-BOOKS.
PURSUANT to the provisions of the Savings Banks
Act IS9O, notice is hereby given that
Mr. Blank, Inspector,
will attend as Auditor, at the Office of the State
Savings Bank at KOOKABURRA, for the purpose of
inspecting the Pass-Books of Depositors, on the -—th
July, 1914, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 2 p.m.
to 3 p.m.
By Order of the Commissioners of the State
Savings Bank of Victoria.
It would be interesting to know the amount
of waste man and money power involved in
engineering the 79 superfluous insertions
safely into print. I know that the checking
of Gazette notices is entrusted only to offi-
cers of heavy tonnage, and each repetition
would have to be preliminarily typed and
checked and re-checked, and as to the print-
ing—well, perhaps you’ve paid a printer’s
bill yourself.
“Briner”: The Empress of Ireland dis-
aster would have been minimised had her
coal bunkers been along her sides, as in the
Cunard boats Mauretania and Lusitania.
No owners, however, would have adopted
that principle unless compelled. The Eng-
lish Government, which subsidised these two
vessels as war reserves, insisted that the
bunkers must be so placed, as a substitute
for armor; and that’s why you find them
there. Warships always have the bunkers
like that; commercial vessels have them
transverse, and above the boilers, so that
the coal may be run in without handling.
After the Titanic disaster the White Star
Co. withdrew her sister, the Olympic, for
alterations, but even then it would not shift
the bunkers. Instead, £250,000 was spent
“THE PRODIGAL SON AND THE FATTED CALF.”
on an inner skin, which, it was thought,
would obviate a Titanic catastrophe. The
double-hull is likewise adopted in the
Cunard Aquitania, 50,000 tons, the White
Star Britannic and the Hamburg-Amerika’s
Vaterland. The Storstad would apparently
have run through a double skin, but there
would have been a better chance of her
remaining jammed. Ordinary watertight
compartments are plainly of little use in a
big bump. The Empress of Ireland had ten !
The Bulletin receives the following
(condensed) copy of the report of an Em-
pire Day celebration : the column or so has
been sent out to the papers with the intima-
tion that poor city people might like to know
how the great heart of the country beats :
Empire Day was loyally celebrated on Arrawatta
Estate by a colossal Picnic ostensibly for the school
children, but quite as thoroughly enjoyed by the elder
members of the community. From the very able
manner in which Miss explained to her charges
the true significance of the National celebration
we have small doubt that she will instil her pupils
with strong patriotism together with sound scholastic
knowledge enabling them to become creditable and
useful citizens of our ever growing Empire. The
conclusion of the address was marked by presentation
to the children of badges to commemorate the
auspicious occasion. Limitations of space preclude
us from giving at length a full description of the
stupendous programme which was got through by an
array of juvenile and adult talent which it would be
found difficult to equal and impossible to excel within
the confines of the Colony. The athletic portion of
the programme concluded with the ever popular
tug of war, opposing teams being selected from an
equal number of colonials and newchums, the un-
qualified success of the latter proving that the Old
Country can still supply the bone and muscle which
enabled our ancestors to lay the foundation of our
present proud position. Alf Jessop by his valiant
onslaught against all comers proved to be a veritable
Don Quixote in the pillow fight. As a fitting finale
to the jubilations of the day a grand pyrotechnic
display was given in the evening, the whole country-
side being illumined with rains of golden fire and
the hills echoing with the reverberation of rockets
and crackers so dear to the juvenile heart. But
amidst a din reminiscent of battlefields and ginger-
beer corks, sweet strains of music emanating from
an accordeon in the able hands of Mr. Jack Dick
floated gently o’er the breeze and directed attention
to the portals of the terpsichorean temple where the
genial Mr. Fred Gudgeon as M.C. welcomed the
votaries of the light fantastic toe to take their plea-
sures within. The magic wand must surely have
been at work again as the bewildered onlooker g-azed
upon the seemingly endless stream of youth and
beauty, stalwart sons of husbandry in immaculate
evening dress and ladies in the latest word in Worth
and Paquin creations wended their way up the hard-
wood steps well carpeted with rich black soil. Danc-
ing with intervals for the recovery of breath and
refreshments was energetically indulged in until the
wee sma’ hours. Most of the costumes worn were of
the Directoire style, and the whole effect was most
dazzling, but soon grey streaks of dawn peep in,
and each youth “hooks” his maiden slim, back to the
cows and milking bails, back to legropes, stools
and pails.
Germany will be pretty chary about attack-
ing the Empire after reading that!
“J. 0.8.” : As no other body seems to care,
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals should take action to put
down politicians’ addresses to children.
Empire Day inflated no end of wind-
bags, and harmless youngsters had to
stand or sit in groups till the bags
were emptied. One N.S.W. Minister
asked 700 if. they would like to hear him.
They answered “No!” in a hearty, truthful
howl; but the Minister knew he had them
under the thumb of their teachers, and went
on with what he called, his speech. It is a
miserable thing for a man come to years of
discretion to take advantage of children in
this way. As fpr improving their minds,
the wisest politician in Australia could not,
on themes that politicians indulge in, hon-
estly hold the attention of an average child
for more than a few minutes. If he threw
handsprings or set fire to his whiskers he
might maintain interest a little longer; but
as lie won’t do either of these things the
child has to sit in misery like a prisoner in
the dock of a sinner on a penitent form.
This positive ill-treatment should be taken
notice of by the Anti-Cruelty Association.
Grown ones who attack defenceless children,
merely to give play to their vanity, or to
score a half-column newspaper report which
may be good for them politically, should be
viewed as others are who torture chickens.
•* * * *
What a mere fluke is life or death ! The
most true-seeming story about Kendall, cap-
tain of the sunken liner Empress of Ireland,
is that which relates: “He fully intended to
go down with his ship, and was only pre-
vented by fate from doing so. When the
vessel heaved over Captain Kendall grasped
the rail, meaning to drown, but the im-
prisoned air blew up the deck and bridge,
throwing the captain into the water; where
he was seen and picked up shortly after-
wards.” On board the vessel there were
one thousand and twenty-four people fight-
ing for life. They were drowned. But
death skipped over the man who deliberately
stood still to wait for it. Kismet? Or
plain chance?
GOLFING PARSONS AND WORKING SINNERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The article for next Saturday is entitled “The Art
of Putting.” The writer is the Rev. Mr. Bunker
Tee. —Note in evening paper.
The vicar, with his golfing tools,
Goes out to play from noon till night,
While ordinary week-day fools
Remain in town to fret and write.
The vicar and the curate will
Tramp all this sunny afternoon,
And, in their clubhouse on the hill,
Have tea and watch a golf-ball moon.
Sometimes at night, when plodding home,
I see them coming back from “goff” ;
Then at the mouth I want to foam
And tear their mad black garments off.
For they have six glad days a week
In clothes as dreary as the tomb,
While I in joyous raiment sneak
About a place of sweat and gloom.
And if I should, upon the day
That they set to, go out to see
The breezy paddocks where they play,
They’ll speak with bitterness of me.
When in the Devil’s bunker I
. In horrid state am just arriving,
Must I observe them in the sky
Down slopes of cloud their golf-balls driving?
N.S.W.
INDOORS FOR EVER.


TO STRENGTHEN WEAK LUNGS AND
IMPROVE APPETITE AND DIGESTION.
Modern scientific treatment of lung affections
aims first to improve appetite, digestion and
nutrition, and secondly to heal the inflamed or
diseased mucous membrane of the lungs and
air passages.
The ideal preparation for accomplishing
these two objects is Angier’s Emulsion. This
remedy combines the soothing, healing pro-
perties of a specially purified petroleum with
the tonic properties of the hypophosphites of
lime and soda. By its soothing an J disinfectant
action in the stomach and intestines it corrects
digestive irregularities and greatly improves
assimilation and nutrition, while at the same
time it exerts a most invigorating tonic in-
fluence upon the general health. Briefly stated,
Angier’s Emulsion is soothing and healing to
throat, lungs, stomach and intestines, an aid
to appetite and digestion, and a vitalizing
tonic and restorative. For twenty-one years
it has been prescribed by the medical profession
and used in the hospitals, and is now universally
recognised as a standard approved remedy for
lung troubles, digestive and bowel disorders and
wasting diseases. The combined healing and
strengthening properties of the emulsion
make it invaluable for healing the lungs and
building up health and strength after pneu-
monia, pleurisy, influenza or any illness
affecting the lungs ; also after measles, fevers
or any protracted illness. Even for the person
of average good health, Angier’s Emulsion is
of value, because it keeps the digestive organs
in a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally, thus making the use of pills
unnecessary. Of all chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10§. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole .agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. fid. and 12s-. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
&
Leather-lined Motor Goats
Warm and Protective.
The cold, rushing breeze created by the speed of the car does not
penerate the coat illustrated. It is an ideal coat for winter motoring.
In Dark Grey or Green self-striped Heavy-Scotch Tweed, Double breasted,
with detachable leather lining, wind guards fitted inside sleeves, straps
on cuffs, broad, deep lapel. Easy-fitting, with wide skirt.
Price - - - £5/5/-
Leather Shell Coats, to be worn under ordinary overcoat, £3/10/-
Please state height and chest measurement when ordering.
Catalogue on request.
PEAPES <& CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309-311 George Street* Sydney.
THE NEW GOWN.
MADAME (sitting): “ Oh , Bob's coming round.
He actually agreed with me about my in-
visible blue. He admitted it was invisible
and insisted it was blue."
“Marloo”: During the “off” season the
cane-cutters on the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.), with one eye on the swollen divi-
dends paid by. the C.S.R. Co. and the other
on the increasing profits of the growers, have
organised into a strong union. Before tak-
ing off their coats they want three trifles
granted—sixpence a ton rise on all cane
handled; the limitation of private gangs;
the prohibition of farmers as “punters.”
Farmers, liny ...iy, are such unscientific
stackers that many punts are insufficiently
loaded, or are so badly loaded that they go
aground, whereby the cutters are left idle
for a day or so. The planters, of course,
are making angry noises through their
whiskers, and threaten to play Ancient
Harry wL n the time is ripe. If they keep
up that altitude there will be the first seri-
ous strike in the “black country,” as labor
organisers have hitherto called the North
Coast.
Dear Bulletin,— ln B. 21/5/’l4 I found
some plain talk from “The Missus” to “Silas
Snell.” Your hand, Missus ! I have about
100 employers, all “workers.” I am not a
worker. I am a paid pill-provider and pro-
fessional getter-up-in-the-night for the Lodge.
Lodge fees have been consistently coming
down during the past 20 years, while wages
have been going up for the “workers” like
the thermometer in a north wind in January.
My 100 bosses (if I were worse off than I
am I might have 1000) are always “slinging
off” at me because they compel me to keep
a motor-car to visit them in. “The in-
creased cost of living” does not affect me, of
course. And the largest lodge which I have
to turn out for at midnight (what about
overtime?) not only pays less fees per head
now than I got 20 years ago, hut is six
months in arrears. If one of the “workers”
makes a mistake and steps on to a ladder
that isn’t there, the boss has to pay. If I
make a mistake and run into a tram on a
pitch-dark night on my way to “Come at
once” to a lodge patient, my widow has to
stand the racket. For myself I am a red-
hot Socialist. But my brand of Socialism
doesn’t seem to run comfortably with that
of the “workers” I hear most about nowa-
days.—Yours, etc., Nil.
At Benalla (Vic.) the other day a man
was arrested for stealing and wearing a
pair of woman’s boots. He had on, at the
time, a complete female outfit, including
gloves, cor-
sets and
other haber-
dashery. The
local theory
is that he
was in train-
ing for the
role of Uni-
versity student.
The thriftiness
or weariness of the
Watt Government
has long earned
the condemnation
of Victorian State
scholars and their
parents, whose
claims for better
accommodation are
pe'rsis tently ig-
nored ; now an-
other administra-
tive branch is be-
ing castigated. The
other day Judge
Eagleson held ses-
sions at Casterton,
and came away
very angry. He
found, among other
things, that if he
wished to visit the
court yard he could
only do so by pass-
ing through the
prisoners’ dock.
The whole build-
ing, he said, was
in an absolutely
disgraceful condi-
tion, and had no
conveniences for
Judge, counsel or
witnesses; in fact,
if witnesses were
ordered out of
court during a case
they had to stand
on the footpath in
the rain or sun.
Still it is a shame
to harass Watt and
Weary about alter-
ing suc.h a build-
ing; the idea of
arranging that a
. .., ~ Judge who wished
to visit the court yard should do so only
through the dock is a stroke of genius that
isnt likely to be improved upon, no matter
how they tinker with the place.
* * * *
It was only a fair thing that education in
wine-making should be withdrawn from the
curriculum at Dookie (Vic.) Agricultural
College; parental objections to sending boys
to a college where they could sniff an aroma
of intoxicating liquor were legitimate
enough. Temperance principles are not
foolish prejudices, and a winepress on the
farm was as much out of place as a model
brewery would be if it were attached to
the Working Men’s College in Melbourne,
and that’s all about it. But a Government
viticultural college in a suitable locality
would do the State some service. Austra-
lian wine will always be wanted for local
consumption, and as a national product for
exportation it has a great future. What’s
the matter with the idea of a State vinery
and winery for educational purposes, where
FIRST PRINCIPLES.
“But, I say, you know I don't knew what
to do.”
“Oh, its quite easy—watch what everybody
else is aoing and thin do something
different.”
instruction in the art of making liquor fit
for the followers of St. Paul would be
mingled with temperance lecturing? The
world wants good wine to make the drinkers
better. The Rechabites can work for the
improvement of the milk and soda-water in-
dustries.
At the final roll-call of passengers of the
Empress of Ireland 1042 had to be marked
as dead, and 432 as saved. But the chances
are that qf the 432 a large number will be
dead within the year. In some recent legal
proceedings connected with the loss of the
Titanic five of the rescued passengers were
to have given evidence. Only one turned
up, and counsel sadly announced that the
other four were gone. Pneumonia, shock
and horror of the night had completed the
work too well begun by the plunge from a
warm berth into icy water.
* * * *
The British-India liner Waipara is under
the curse of a hoodoo. It is not very long
since she sat on top of Smith’s Rock, where
the St. Paul struck and sank, doing herself
damage to the extent of £30,000, much to the
gratification of Mort’s Dock, Sydney, where
she was rebuilt below the water-line. Now
she has struck more trouble by
climbing on to the Hannibal
Islands, in Torres Strait, with
a crowd of immigrants on
board. It was a Queensland
pilot who put the Waipara on
top of Smith’s Rock, and much
good money went in law costs
on that occasion. This second
accident looks like another
crumb of comfort to Mort’s
Dock. Morning by morning the
manager of that big Australian
industry can be heard calling
from tbe minaret the Faithful
and other unionists to prayer:
“Give us this day our daily calamity. Allah
be praised, and may the shadow of the Profit
never grow less!”
* * * »
English flying-men have devised anew
scheme to catch those careful people who
reckon they can see just as much of the
ascents from outside the ground as within it,
The main feature is a booklet, called “Inside
for Sixpence,” or something like that, and
giving photographs of the joyous things to
be seen inside only. This is handed about
freely to the sixpence-savers, and is found to
convert great numbers of them into paying
gate money. Anyway, the flying-ground at
Hendon got in a 150,000 crowd one day
lately, which is possibly the biggest that has
ever paid to see anything, anywhere, at anv
time.
“Truthful James”: I am wandering
through Southern Italy, and at the Hotel
Londres, at Cava, en route to Pompeii, I
found in the visitors’ book the name of a
High Court Judge’s wife entered up this
way:—
Mrs. , High court of [say] Ruritania.
When the natives learnt that I came from
Iluritania, the question was referred to me
for settlement as
to whether we
had women
judges. I did
what I could. I
explained that it
was not exactly
like that, but our
High Court
judges shared
the honor with
their wives, and
are known as,
say, Mr. Justice
Jones and Mrs.
High Court
Jones. It had a
calming influ-
ence, even on
Vesuvius, which had been threatening
trouble.
“O.C.C.”: Owing to J. Bull’s Govern-
ment being in a blue funk concerning by-
elections, which have been running consist-
ently against it for the last two years, the
Honors lust” has been “postponed.” This
list is one looked for eagerly, year by
year, by all good “Liberal” members in the
Commons, who, while cordially detesting the
House of Lords (in theory), are madly
anxious to “reform” it by joining it as peers.
Ihe Brunners and Monds and Levers, who
are chemical or soap or grocery millionaires,
have long since earned their peerages by
generous devotion of purse and person to
the Asquith m>wd; they have had their
feelings excruciated frequently in their bank-
accounts by Lloyd George, but nobly hare
they born their sufferings. This year—if
ever—these Liberal stalwarts looked for their
reward; next year the detested tariff-re-
forming Tories will probably be in power,
and where will the good grocers and soap-
men be then? Hence the unprecedented post-
ponement of the Honors List is a serious
thing; but it simply has to be done, as among
the seats of those eligible for promotion to
the Upper House there is not one that can be
reckoned safe from the Unionists, so long
as horrid Labor people will insist on butting
it for third place—which they get regularly.
At the same time, as the Libs, are only
getting second place, the gloom is growing
deeper. A discontented Liberal lawyer, Mr.
Joseph Martin. K.C., who sits for'the de-
pressing seat of East St. Pancras, London,
has apparently got full of things, oivis suf-
fering from too much income-tax or suner-tax
or Lloyd George; hence according to Sydney
D.T. he has headed a revolution of the
largest political magnitude :—
LIBERAL MEMBER RESIGNS.
London, Wednesday.—Mr. Joseph Martin, Liberal
M. for East St. Pancras, Is resigning- his seat, and
will recontest it as an independent South Pole under
American auspices.
No doubt, if he gets back, following the pre-
cedent set by the Cook Government in the
case of the Victorian Iceberg, they will make
him Attorney-General.
Set a motor to burst a motor. Two
N. cars, owned and driven by two
brothers, met in a head-on collision last
week on a lonely country road. The gene-
rator of one car set the petrol supply going,
and, the two being hopelessly locked toge-
ther, they burnt in beauty side b.v side while
the enraged owners leaped round them. It
THEN HE TOOK THE HINT.
SHE: “I don't want you to put yourself out
in any way. But—but I think I hear
j ather coming, and—and you wouldn't
like him to do it for you, would you?”
must have looked like a sacred fire-dance
from a safe distance. The thoughtful coun-
try correspondent solemnly concludes : “Both
drivers , escaped unhurt.” From tbp colli-
sion, perhaps. But did they escape from
each other?
THE MISSUS AND THE MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Annelise Ruegg, the Swiss girl who has tried
domestic service in Sydney, says: “There appears to
he no love, as in my country, between the woman and
the girl, the mistress and the maid.”
When Mary Ann has grabbed a cup—
A pretty cup, a china cup—
And thrown it at the cat;
Or when she sticketh out her tongue—•
A cheeky tongue, a forward tongue,
A frightful thing in one so young,
A tongue as long as that —
Then I am very much afraid
The missus doesn’t love the maid.
And, furthermore, when Mary Ann
Has gone and filled the household can—
The handy general-purpose can,
The gravy can, the water can,
The soak-the-beans-in-soda can ;
In fact, the good old William-can—
With reeking kerosene,
And everything you get to eat,
The hot and cold, the sour and sweet,
The tripes of cows or rabbits’ feet,
Exhales a perfume as of peat
In every breakfast scene;
With stormy stomach unallayed
The missus doesn’t love the maid.
For forty days the spider’s lair—
Its web of hair, of slender hair,
Its woof of tenuous gossamaire
(A rotten rhyme, but I don’t oare,
It’s in the poets everywhere)
Has hung up there, has swung up there,
And no one sweeps it down !
But nobody would print this verse
If down it slipped from bad to worse
Recording every separate curse,
Each awful curse, dismaying curse,
That’s uttered with a frown;
Language 2000 in the shade,
Which proves she doesn’t love the maid.
Go through the kitchen to the room,
The little room, the wretched room,
The plastered cell of damp and gloom,
The airless crypt, the sunless tomb
Where Mary Ann must sleep;
Mark all its nooks and crannies, where
Myopic cockroaches repair,
And rats come whimpering to share
A meal on Mary’s underwear,
And strange things bite and creep ;
Down here the truth is well displayed,
The missus doesn’t love the maid.
N.S.W.
L.


I^Htmluhß
|mi [Jjl
tidwl Hi]
A JOB THAT’S GOT TO BE DONE.
“Well, it’s no good standing looking at it, so here goes!”


THE ROLL-CALL.
Mr. Disraeli Braham, who has been imported from abroad to succeed Dr. Ward as editor of the Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” arrived from
London to=day by the Otranto.— News item.


EXASPERATION at poor and unreadable pencopies
can be avoided by the use of Zanetic paper. AVhen
used in Penduplicate Books, in place of carbon paper,
it ensures perfect, permanent duplicates and unsoiled
originals with ease. Free sample and full particulars
if stamped envelope be sent to Zanetic Works,
Leicester, England.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE. «
The characteristics of GREAT - >
AGE, PURITY aftd QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWIN S CO. Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
’ For
QUALITY. 5
M
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. l 3
*
EVERY DAY
mote people ate proving that
K.VVX
is the best washing preparation tor
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
/ *
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The royal George, who is being worried
by suffragettes for a vote, apparently under
the impression that he has a few thousand
concealed about him, hasn’t even one for him-
self. In the matter of the franchise the
British Constituslion (salaam!) ranks kings
with cabbages, cows and mangel-wurzels. One
of these fine days George, or a successor,
may demand a vote for himself, and, if re-
fused, may proceed to smash the windows of
his own house, and be arrested and kept in
one of his own gaols during his own pleasure.
The Law which arrests him will no doubt be
promoted for strict attention to duty, and
shot for high treason, the sentences to be
cumulative.
ST ARLEY, Victoria's
new State Governor—in
readiness to say nice things.
London Metuo-
dist Times sup-
plies a flattering
portrait and three
columns of mar-
malade under the
heading of “A
Methodist Prime
Minister,” the sub-
ject being J. Cook.
Even Joseph may
be surprised to
hear that he is “as
fine an example of
power and person-
ality as even Aus-
tralia can show,”
is “the Joseph
Chamberlain of
Australia,” “pos-
sesses great tact-
ical ability,” and
is “appreciated as
a live, strong, ef-
fective preacher.”
Incidentally, Bro-
ther Cook “is 53,
but looks 63,” the
outrageously pre-
mature ageing be-
ing due to the
alleged fact that
he “continues to
preach every Sun-
day in spite of the
severe strain of
Parliamentary and
Ministerial work
throughout the
week.” Obviously
Joe isn’t being
fair to himself.
Why not stick to
the local preaching, and let some smaller
men potter round with the job of running
the country?
An old name reappeared on the roll of
N. 8. Wales' attorneys last week —Montague
Consett Stephen. The youngster is a grand-
son of the original M. C. Stephen, who was
a son of Alfred, third Chief Justice of N. S.
Wales.
Henri de Possel, Australian General-Man-
ager for the Messageries Maritimes. retires
after 32 years service in the Commonwealth.
But even bigger changes than that are pend-
ing. The French co. is going to retire from the
Sydney-Marseilles trade via Melbourne, Ade-
laide and Fremantle, and will run a new
line from Sydney via Brisbane, Noumea,
Batavia and Colombo, For some reason of
its own the M.M. didn’t join in the rush to
build huge modern vessels for the Australian
business;; but a .modern class of ships is to
be released for the new route.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: I notice that,
in acknowledging a purse of sovereigns given
him by the Incorporated Law Institute on
his retirement from the N.S.W. Equjty Office,
Mr. Hargraves said that of 21 barristers on
the roll when lie joined the service,
only one is now living. The barrister re-
ferred to is no doubt ex-Justice M. 11.
Stephen, who was admitted in 1850. But
1 think 11. C. Danga.r, who was, admitted in
1854, and had chambers and a shingle in
King-street, must have been already on the
roll when Mr. Hargraves got his introduc-
tion to red tape.
R. 11. Antill, of Jarvisfieid, Picton
I, N.5.W.)., has presented to the Mitchell
Library an autograph letter written by Gov-
ernor Macquarie to Captain. Antill,
under date London, Oct. 1, 1823. The
Captain was of the 73rd Regiment, and came
to Sydney with Macquarie, and acted as his
A.D.C. He made one of the party accom-
panying Macquarie on his trip over the Blue
Mountains to Bathurst. On leaving the’
army the Captain settled on a grant which he
called Jarvisfieid. out of compliment to Mac-
quarie, who had a connection with that place
in Scotland. Antill named Picton after the
famous Peninsular General killed at Water-
loo.
“Moana”: I think the medal for energy
should be handed to an old lady who lives
near Ahaura. v on the West Coast (M.L.).
She is at present busy erecting a four-
roomed cottage for herself, and already lias
the two front rooms completed. The, work
is being well done throughout; in fact, a
carpenter couldn’t show a better job. The
work has been carried on without any out-
side assistance whatever; and, to show how
tough the old party is, it should be men-
tioned that every morning she mounts a
horse and rides three miles to the work,
returning in the evening. If this isn’t a
feminine record in the hard-graft line it
ought to be.
W. V. McCall, appointed Assistant Town
Clerk of Melbourne, with right of succession
to Clayton, has to thank his friends that
he beat the aspiring John Romanis, of
Prahran. On the retirement of Stewart,
McCall filed an application for the vacancy,
but it was not entertained, on the ground
that applications should be publicly called.
Thereupon McCall laid low, and 56 appli-
cants went before the committee of the
whole, and a special committee sifted the
number to seven. These again were, bal-
lottcd for. Romanis headed the poll, and
was recommended for the billet. It was
then that McCall’s friends got busy, and
pointed out that his original application
should be counted in, and on a vote, taken
after much whipping up, he won by 16 to
14. Thus he never entered into competition
with 55 of the applicants, but just had a
straight-out fight with the winner amongst
that bunch.
The Apple Island’s recent exhibition of its
staple industry (“the biggest show of its
kind in the world,” as all Tasmanians know)
brings up the name of George Inge. Inge
was the man who started the apple rolling
in Tassy, and is said to have been the first
to make his living entirely by the circum-
stance. He evolved the idea of pruning his
trees the reverse way, the spokes .starting
from the base and curving outwards. The
orthodox method of the time was to have a
single stem with spokes curving inwards. The
change meant a lot to the apple crop, and is
now uniformly adopted. Inge, as a young
man, left England for Australia somewhere;
in the ’so’s, bringing letters to the Governor
of Victoria. He was .subsequently on the’
gold escort under Captain Dana, tried his
hand at station management, and, , coming to
Tasmania, married and settled on a farm
near New Norfolk, where he found that his
few apple trees brought him such good profit
that he decided to build on orcharding alone
instead of making it a side-show. A man
much liked and respected, his name deserves
to be remembered as that of one. who lias
done much for the advancement of Tas-
manian industry. The State has also room
for a niche to the memory of the person or
persons unknown who discovered that in
Tasmania apple trees will grow' on almost
anything provided the subsoil is not a sieye
or absolutely poisonous. , Hundreds of acres
that are now yielding a handsome profit as
orchards were some years' ago regarded as
hopeless stretches of sandy peat and bracken.
They have unearthed a Gippsland farmer
who is the father of 27 children and grand-
father to over 100. The Bulletin gives
him an epitaph in advance :
Here’s one who tried to save his nation
The woeful need of immigration.
Fitzparrot, M.L.A., has been honored by
his political opponents with the job of re-
presenting N.S.W. at the Samarang Exhibi-
tion to be held in Java in July. Just why the
Ma State should have a representative at
Samarang isn’t exactly obvious; but, any-
way, the giving of the billet to one of its
most rancorous and exasperating critics
shows that the Holman Cabinet has a pretty
poor opinion of Samarang,
The late Judge Homburg, of S. Aus., has
had a posthumous triumph in the upsetting
by the High Court of a judgment in which the
Full Court of the State had altered a judg-
ment of his. Justice Barton remarked
politely that the point of law on which ilia
case really turns “did not appear to have
been brought to the notice of their Honors
of the Full Court” (Way, 'Murray and
Buchanan). But, any way one takes it, it is
a big compliment to Homburg.
Henpessy is virtually picked for a third
term as Mayor of Melbourne. J. T. Smith
was Mayor, seven times between 1851 and
’63. McEacharn had four terms; and Lang,
Snowden, Gilloit add Weedon three apiece.
Condell ( thir first)p in 1842-3, had two; so
had Moor, Meares, Benjamin, Strong, Bur-
ston and Davey. .The other 33 scored only
singles. The dtiffest battle ever , fought for
the chair was between McEacharn and Gil-
lott in 1899, the idea being that King
George, as Duke of York, would come
Within that Mayoral year. McEacharn won
by one vote-—and then George didn’t come
I till 1901, by which time Gillott had arrived.
So the last was first, and the first was
turned out to grass.
Y. de P. Gillen, the young Adelaide lawyer
who has had such a rough passage lately,
was sentenced last week to two years and
three months hard labor for mishandling his
clients’ money- Paris Nesbit and other pro-
fessional friends, have put up a great fight
for him- all this year. One complainant had
his £lO restored to him while the Court was
sitting,. and straightway lost interest in the
matter. Two charges were abandoned after
four' juries had failed to agree over them.
In the one case where a verdict was given,
the Full Court had to be called together to
consider technicalities desperately raised.
“In a criminal case,” said" Nesbit candidly
at the finish, “one takes any point that is
arguable at all,” but the Chief Justice thought
it “a waste of time, to go on.” “You have
had,” said Judge Murray in passing sentence,
“the advantage of being defended by counsel
who have used in your interests every re-
source that skill or learning could devise, or
friendship inspire.” Lawyers do hate to see
another lawyer go to gaol.
CHARLES GOODE , Adelaide's oldest
merchant and philanthropist.
, What saith the seer, Abdul Ikey Hafiz?
“A false friend is a greater cross than 1700
whitlows.” The reflection is inspired by
the news that Premier Watt’s Victorian
admirers intend to give him a portrait of
himself in oils.
A. J. Thynne, who has been in the
Southern capitals lately, is a hard-working
solicitor-AI.L.C. in big practice in Brisbane.
EDITOR SIMMONDS,
Hobart MERCURY.
For years he was a
leader in volunteer
circles, commanding
the Queensland
Hides, and later the
Queensland Irish—
a “national” regi-
ment which eventu-
ally blew up by
spontaneous com-
bustion, or was dis-
solved for incom-
patibility of brogue
or something. The
pres-ent Commis-
sioner of Police in
Queensland, Cahill,
was a major in this
corps. Thynne’s law
partner, Macartney,
is an M.L.A., and
has held several
portfolios, including
that for Lands; but
nowadays he is
credited with n o
consuming love for
his old political
chief, Digby Den-
him. ItwasThynne
and Macartney who
put through the ar-
ticles of association
of the “Australian”
M e a t Export C o.
The half-dozen or so
names required by
statute to be regis-
tered as sharehold-
ers were mostly
those of law clerks
and typists in the
firm’s office. This
innocent procedure
covered the coming
of the American
Meat Trust. What
sort of events will
wait upon its going
—if ever it does go
—even Thynne and Macartney cannot fore-
tell.
When W. 11. Hargraves, N.S.W. Deputy-
Kegistrar in Equity, entered the service 57
years ago, there were four judges, 21 bar-
risters and 95 solicitors in the Ma State,
which then included Queensland. Of that
lot only one barrister and one solicitor have,
he says, remained alive to see him quit his
job.
Gatherers of historical driftwood have
been picking over the remains of the ship
in which Captain Cook served his sea
apprenticeship. Incidentally they have shed
a light on the worm-eaten age of the craft
British salts are expected to man for a liv-
ing. The ship was originally called the
Free Love. Her owners, two Quakers, sold
her, and her new owners re-christened her
the Brotherly Love. Captain Cook shipped
in this brig in 1744, and in 1878 she was
still hauling out of South Shields with
coals. And for all this paper knows she
may still be carrying coals for Davy Jones
in the 170th year of her infancy.
If there’s any such complaint as bad
luck the Kendall family seem to have caught
it severely. Mrs. Wild, niece of the Em-
press of Ireland’s skipper, lost her husband
in the Titanic, of which he was chief officer.
Her brother, officer Evans, lost his life in
the same smash. Another brother was an
officer on the Hibernian Monarch, and lost
a good berth as well as sundries, and her
uncle lost his ship. By the way, Kendall
was skipper of the Montrose, in which
Hawley Crippen and his lady, Ethel le Neve,
tried to escape from England to America
some time back. Kendall spotted him and
rang up the police per wireless. Is there a
curse of Crippen?
Samuel Ellis, who has been given a mili-
tary funeral in Adelaide, had several inter-
esting things to look back on. As a very
young sailor he shared in what is generally
called the Crimean War, but from the other
end, helping to worry Russian ports in the
Baltic. Next he fought in China. Then he
fell from the rigging and broke one arm, one
leg and a collar bone, so his active days
were over. As an instructor, he had under
him Admiral Togo, the Duke of Edinburgh
and Col. Lee, now an Australian comman-
dant. Finally, for over 30 years out of the
40 that Adelaide University has seen, the
old salt has been at anchor as head caretaker
there.
THE BATTLE OF THE BOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the annual meeting of the British and Foreign
Bible Society l)r. Bertram Pollock, Bishop of Nor-
wich, said that the Bible had many modern competi-
tors.—Cable.
old Moses, oi' whoever
Wrote Genesis, cannot,
In telling us the story
Of Joe and Mrs. Pot.,
.Divert us worth a jot.
For Parker, Wells and others,
Have dressed the ancient tale
In robes of blue and purple,
Till Genesis seems pale
And flat as last night’s ale.
AVho’d read of fell distempers
And other horrors grim,
No more turns to the pictures
That Job was wont to limn,
For Zola’s outed him.
The maid who loves a story
About some Sue or Sis
Who, from a humble station,
Wins wealth and wedded bliss,
The Book of Ruth can miss.
To Ruth, among the gleaners,
Old Boaz lost his heart;
But Garbage (flappers tell me)
Beats this in “Just, a Tart,’’
Where Betty wins a Bart. !
Then Solomon’s old ditty
Is voted weak and thin
By spice-devouring readers ;
More pleasure do they win
From Danbv and Nell Glyn.
My sympathy is with you,
Dear doctor, 1 insist ;
But what can you and I do?
From each Best Sellers’ list,
Alas! the Bible’s missed!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


issaSgjiSSSii
Is
1
4,
%
M,
A.
X.
1
A
I
■J?
m
m
&
V*
9?
§«S
is-
-5C
“If Man —the Materialist—will attend to three things — food, exercise and clothes
—the rest will come ” —From “Aphorisms of a Modern Man.”
CLOTHES becoming more essential every day to the Young Man who is There;
while, to the Young Man who is Climbing, there is no more fatal folly than neglect of his
appearance. There is nothing better in cut, fit, durability and appearance than the
Austral Suits, for which we quote
Austral Suits to Measure: —63/-, 70/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 95/-, 105/-, 110/ & 115/-
GOWING BROS.,
** PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS,”
484, 486, 488 & 490 George Street; &3,-5, 7, 9,11,13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


iti h - ciass Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let ns have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY:
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS— Deep and Shallow-
ed and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Larsre Stocks a.so on hand-Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings,
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. &ena lor maiogue.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Solomon Islands Development Co.,
formed in Sydney in 1908 to make plantations and
grow rubber, copra, bananas and dividends: —
To
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1909 .. £847 Nil £847
Profit.
1910 .. 78 Nil £7B 769
Reserves.
1911 . . 1294 Nil 1294 525
1912 .. 1613 5 p.c. =£2ooB 130
Premiums on new shares . . 5993 6123
1913 .. 4506 7$ p.c.= 3265 1241 7364
1914 .. 4871 10 „ „ 4889 7346
“James Burns, chairman of directors,” must have
thought hard before he put his name to the report
which recommended a dividend absorbing more than
the year’s profit. And how did James Burns argue
with himself? Probably this way: “We made £4871
profit. That’s what the books show. But there’s a
profit which the books don’t show. We’ve got 3232
acres of cocoanuts planted, and after four or five
years’ growth a lot of them are just coming into
bearing. Then we’ve got 209 acres under rubber,
and we are going to do our first tapping in a few
months. The year’s growth has been worth a good
deal of money which the books don’t show, because
the value of the plantations hasn’t been written up
—they stand in the accounts' to-day at exactly the
same figure as they did when the trees were planted,
except perhaps for a trifle spent on keeping them
in order. With the main crops just getting ready
for a first harvesting, the visible profits next year
should jump, and possibly they will jump still more
the foliowing year. But those profits don’t really
all belong to next year and the year after: some
of them honestly belong to this year when the trees
have been maturing. I don’t like paying out more
than is shown to have come in ; but, you see, James
Burns, there are exceptional circumstances in this
case.” It may be that the argument was something
like that; and it’s a fair enough one to pass muster.
Anyhow, there’s the 10 p.c. dividend.
You think of the isles of the Pacific as little bits
cut off Paradise before the death-adder got to work.
You lie there under a cocoanut palm and all is
peace and sweet content. That’s all very well; but
peace and sweet content don’t suit a co. that is out
after dividends. It wants hustle and sweat. And
the natives don’t. A few of them, having perhaps
acquired sinful civilised tastes which can only be
satisfied with money, are willing to work; but, as
the demand for this limited few has grown with the
multiplication of plantations, there are not enough
sinners to go round. This co. alone has control over
50,000 acres, and in more than six years, with some-
thing to start with, it has got only 3541 acres under
cultivation. This includes Berande, which the co.
bought with 484 acres planted. The struggle to get
“boys” has been continuous; yet the number on the
books shrinks. In 1910 it was 440, next year 464.
In 1912 the manager had hopes of having 600 ; but
something went wrong with the supply, and there
were only 373 when that year ended. Next year,
328 ; for the past year, 309. Almost in desperation,
instead of relying on recruiting contractors, who
have been steadily jumping their prices up, the co.
has now bought a vessel, and the other day sent her
off from Sydney to go on the hunt in the interests
of this and the Shortland Co., which is in the
same stable. This scarcity of labor has meant very
slow progress with planting, because most of what
“boys” have been available have been wanted to
keep the jungle from re-swallowing the young plan-
tations. Last year no more rubber at all was got in
—in fact, one acre was swallowed, reducing the area
from 210 to 209—and about 500 acres of cocoanuts.
All things considered, the latter was a very good
figure: it looks as though the older cocoanuts are
getting able to look after themselves a bit. Given a
good supply of labor, there is a very big thing ahead
of the co. Given enough even to allow it to potter
along, the co. is even now in the way to make fine
profits, notwithstanding that rubber has played it the
nasty trick of falling from, the 10s. of the boom to
about half-a-erown, and isn’t likely to be much
better.
The co. is in 1000 shares of £lOO each. Origin-
ally 618 were issued, and they have been paid' to
£65. The other 382, marketed a couple of years
ago, brought in the premium shown in the table.
The original 618 supplied £40,170 of capital; the
others as. at March 31 had supplied £8720, an
average of about £25. No more calls are to be
made on the old lot till the new lot are paid up to
£65. As at March 31 the liabilities were a trifle
ahead of liquid and semi-liquid assets; but since
then a call of £lO on the new lot has been got in.
The Metropolitan Accident, Fire and
General Insurance Co. (Sydney), which took over
the accident business of the Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co.,- and gave for it £15,000 in £1
fully-paid shares: —-
Towards
Dec., Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1909 .. £773 Nil £15,773
1910 .. 1322 Nil 17,095
1911 .. 1667 Nil 18,762
1912 .. 1953 Nil 20,715
1913 .. 897 Nil 21,612
This poor little thing never had a chance. As a
matter of fact, not to put too fine a point on it,
some of the incidents connected with its birth were
questionable. There is an office, doing life and other
business, called the Australian Metropolitan. This
concern got a trifle of industrial accident business,
and it conceived the idea of selling it to a new co.
for —if you please—-£15,000 in shares. Probably at
the time a valuer with ice on his head would have
said the whole lot was worth that many ha’pence.
But the sale of this small nucleus of an insurance
side-line for a good round £15,000 in paper had
this effect —so far as the Metropolitan Life is con-
cerned, it swelled that eo.’s “investments” by
£15,000 ; and so far as this Metropolitan Accident
Co. is concerned, it swelled its “capital” by £15,000.
In plain words, however, the Fire and Accident Co.’s
capital, though nominally £24,149, was really only
£9149; that was all the co.’s real funds. And
£3059 of that was only raised a while ago in a
desperate attempt to get money in by a preference
issue. The public sniffed. An older concern might
have bluffed through; but this one had to submit
itself to examination all the time. The result was
disastrous. In these few years practically the entire
capital has been absorbed. Of £9149 actually put
up, all but £2537 has gone; and it is reckoned that
£1585 of that is necessary to cover outstanding
risks and £512 to collect outstanding premiums. In
money and tangible assets (including even outstand-
ing premiums) the co. has £4942, and a few pounds
may be added for the sticks of office-furniture. Lia-
bilities (including the amount estimated to cover out-
standing risks) amount to £4504. Plainly the co.
couldn’t go on —unless the directors liked to risk
being presently talked to very severely by a Judge.
And that would have been singularly unpleasantj
because the chairman of the co. (or the man who was
chairman at the date of the issue of these accounts)
is now a Judge himself.
So the proper thing has been done in selling the
Are and general accident business. All that the co.
retains is the industrial and personal accident depart-
ments. These will be worked in conjunction with
the Metropolitan Life office, which will manage the
concern. This retained business doesn’t involve heavy
risk, and perhaps even this emaciated co. can fairly
face it. The rest of the business is taken over by
the Amalgamated Co. —the new office which has set
out to do things in a new way, establishing local
cos. in each State capital and controlling them.
This co. pays for the Metropolitan’s business in
shares; the number apparently depends upon the
manner in which the policies are renewed. H. A.
Lawrence, who has had the utterly impossible job of
making a ton of bricks out of lcwt. of clay and
19ewt. of chaff, joins the new co.
* * * *
The Northern Steamship Co. (Auck-
land, M.L.) :
Taken
from Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902 .. £4,397 7 p.c. = £4,875 £478 £39,760
Loss.
1903 .. 1,808 7 „ „ 4,875 6683 33,077
Profit. Added.
1904 . . 14,062 7 „ „ 6,905 7157 40,234
1905 . . 7,127 7 „ „ 6,905 222 40,456
Withdrawn.
1906 .. 5,724 7 „„ 6,905 1181 39,275
Added.
1907 .. 15,628 7 „ „ 8,681 6947 46,222
Withdrawn.
1908 . . 5,561 7 „ „ 8,681 3120 43,102
1909 .. 3,810 7 „ „ 9,515 5705 37,397
1910 .. 11,213 7 „ „ 11,277 64 37,333
Added.
1911 .. 17,465 7 ~,, 11,299 6166 43,499
1912 . . 15,852 7 ~ „ 11,299 4553 48,052
1913 .. 13,559 7 ~,,11,299 2260 50,312
1914 . . 12,583 7 „ „ 11,299 1284 51,596
The reserves consist of the following amounts: —-
Insurance funds . . . . .. £43,723
Boiler and repairs account . . 6,561
Unappropriated profit .. .. 1,312
Total £51,596
The true reserves are probably much less. An insur-
ance fund may be almost anything. Sometimes, when
a shipping co. is doing remarkably well, the fund is a
stocking into which surplus profits are dropped. If
anything exceptionally bad happens later on, then the
co. may make its profits look more respectable by
dipping into the hoard. If nothing bad happens,
then sooner or later the co. usually capitalises some
of this fund. In this case the co. certainly doesn’t
do all its own insuring, because on the other side
of the balance-sheet it takes credit for unexpired
insurance-premiums £1409. It looks therefore as
though the £43,723 is a contingency account which
is in no very grave danger of being swamped. But
unfortunately it is all invested in the business, and
the business isn’t too profitable. The boiler and
repairs account is probably a special replacement
fund, and as such is most likely merely a set-off
against actual depreciation. In the table the addi-
tions made to these funds are reckoned in with the
profits, and, especially so far as the boilers and repairs
fund is concerned, this probably gives the profits
too favorable an appearance.
If the management sets aside just as much as is
required to cover depreciation and provide for con-
tingencies, then the true profits of the past few years
have been as follows:—
1906 .. .. £7,209 1911 .. .. £11,696
1907 . . . . 9,057 1912 . . . . 11,627
1908 . . . . 8,787 1913 . . . . 11,138
1909 . . . . 9,289 1914 . . . . 11,003
1910 . . . . 11,252
Comparing the first four with the last four years
on 'this list, the improvement looks all. right. But
there’s a thing or two to remember. In the first
place about £65,000 of new capital has been got
in since 1906, and that ought to account for all the
difference and more. And then such movement as
there has been since 1911 hasn’t been the right way;
for the past two years, if the proper amounts and
no more have been put by for depreciation, etc.,
what has been left, hasn’t been enough to pay the
moderate 7 p.c. dividend. Yet the figures ought to
have been growing bigger instead of less, because
the co. has been accumulating more debt, and any
co. which is getting further into debt ought to be
showing more profit and putting more of it by to
cover the risk which debt always implies. Here
are some figures in more detail :■ —-
1904. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Capital . . £98,642 £161,412 £161,412 £161,412
Liabilities . . 39,866 18,748 45,320 48,706
Ships, etc. . . 155,883 201,168 223,450 229,371
Premises, etc. 5,119 4,923 4,881 4,791
Stores, etc. . . 21,593 27,772 34,364 33,193
Finally, there is the question of general depreciation.
How much profit is set aside and written off to cover
wear and tear is not ascertainable; and a manage-
ment can very easily inflate profits by not writing
off enough, or make them appear much worse than
they really are by writing off too much. There is
no strong indication here that the co. has been
writing off too much. But assuming that it has
written off enough, and assuming that the other
provisions are just enough, then the co. is not earning
its dividend; and the fact that the co. has been
going back in its profits, while going ahead in its
debts, is further in its disfavor.
The Swan Brewery Co., Perth (Wes-
tralia) : —-
Writ-
Dividends ten To Re- Re-
Profits. and Div. Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Mar., ’OB.-22,829 24 p.c. = 12,783 786 9,260 186,928
Sept.,’oB.. 15,265 24 „ ~12,783 697 1,786 188,713
Mar., ’09..24,743 24 „ ~12,783 1777 10,183 198,896
5ept.,’09..17,355 24 „ ~ 12,783 1500 3,072 201,968
Mar., T0..27,223 24., ~12,783 2229 12,211 214,179
(Pref. div., 6p.c.)
ept.,T0..17,350{^P’ c=l2 2,954 217,133
Mar., ’11..35,424 i 2 g ” ” 12 18,842 235,975
Sept.,’ll. .21,604-j 2 g ” ” 12 6,957 242,932
Transferred to capital, £101,450 .. 141,482
Mar., ’12,.36,460-j 16 P-C. =17,043 [ 734 17 > 856 159 > 338
Sept., T 2. .18,326 | ” ” 17 ’5271 9X7 ~ 158,877
Mar., ’l3. .38,1141” ” l7 ’g|| i 416 19,667 178,544
Sept., T 3. .21,4071” ” l 7 837 1,951 180,495
Mar., T4..40,718 j 1 ® ” ” l 7 15,891 196,386
The mere fact that almost every year this co.’s profits
break the record established the previous year must
not be taken as a sign that Westralia’s normal thirst
is growing at that rate, or that there are a vast num-
ber of new thirsts for the co. to cater for. A thirst is
the most accommodating arrangement in existence.
There is always room for another. So when cash is
plentiful, as it has been of late years, the man who
breasts the bar finds a good reason for filling ’em up
again. When cash begins to get scarce there won’t
be such a harvest for the breweries. Recent figures
can’t, therefore, be taken as a reliable guide to what
is liable to happen to this co., and what almost
assuredly will happen unless another Golden Mile is
found. The Swan’s great opportunity came with the
Westralian gold rush, and it has piled up reserves
at every opportunity—which has been nearly all the
time. In 1900 reserves were only £58,155. Now
they are £196,386, exclusive of £101,450 trans-
ferred to capital a few years back. One result of this
building-up is that now, although the capital is only
£252,900, the co. has breweries, hotels and plant
in the books at £409,496, made up in this way:—
Brewery lands and buildings at cost . . £85,159
Plant and machinery 71,542
Hotel property at cost 250,868
Other properties at cost 1,927
Total .. ..£409,496
It is a splendid achievement; still The Bulletin
would like the look of it better if there were a
specific reserve for the replacement of premises. Ad-
mittedly most of these properties are worth more
than was paid for them. But a property falls to
pieces just as quickly if it is in the books at £lOO
as it does if it is taken at £lO,OOO, and you can’t
turn the unearned increment into cash and use it to
pay the contractor unless you sell the property that
you want to build on. Assets other than those men-
tioned are stocks ( £36,011), debtors ( £38,398),
advances ( £37.061), and several thousands in sun-
dries. Against that there are £61,981 of liabilities, in-
cluding £42,400 borrowed on mortgage. Rents from
freehold pubs for the past six months amounted to’
£10,190, and the balance from the trading account
was £55,073, out of which adminstration exes, had
to be paid. Altogether a heavily-gilded concern,
whose figures must make some Melbourne people very
sorry for themselves when they remember that they
forfeited shares for calls only a year or two before
Coolgardie began to put quite a different complexion
on the co.’s affairs.
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, signors, serves, serves.
1902 ..£1,528 6 p.c.= £lO4 £1,262 £162 £4lB
1903 . . 2,957 6 ~ „ 253 2,583 121 539
1904 . . 2,778 6 „ ~ 320 2,147 311 850
1905 . . 4,958 6 ~ „ 368 4,188 402 1252
1906 .. 4,206 6 „ „ 432 4.126 900
1907 .. 4,352 6 „ ~ 479 3,873 900
1908 . . 8,010 6 „ „ 535, 7,285 190 1090
1909 .. 9,924 6 ~ „ 704 9,186 34 1124
1910 .. 10,144 6 „ „ 865 10,403
1911 .. 9,221 6 „ „ 946 8,244 31 31
1912 .. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913 .. 17,718 6 „ „ 1222 14.948 1548 1643
1914 .. 15,522 6 „ „ 1446 14,056 20 1663
Reserves creep up very, very slowly, chiefly because
such big bonuses or rebates of commission are
squeezed out of the co. For apparently they are
squeezed out: if it wasn’t necessary to pay them in
order to keep the business of the. alleged co-operators,
the management would scarcely agree to so pauperise
the reserves. True, a very fair amount was hung
on to in 1913, but that was something extra—-it was
understood to be chiefly the money produced by cer-
tain new distributing or cartage charges. Since
then the exes, have shot ahead still further, and the
extra charges have been mopped up. The compara-
tive weakness of the butter market during the year
chn’t have improved matters either: an average of
something like 10s. per cwt. less for butter means
a pretty large slice off the commission earnings. Con-
sidering that the capital is only £24,089, and that
the reserves are almost negligible, the co. does remark-
ably well to get through without a regular overdraft;
all it owes is £72,038, practically all on account of
the last fortnight’s consignments—the co. is a whole-
sale distributor of dairy produce, mostly for co-opera-
tive factories —-while on the other side £75,705 was
owing to the co., being an amount equal to less
than three weeks’ sales. In addition to that asset
the co. has £25,019 in cash and about £9OOO in
unsold stock and advances on consignments. _ Nothing
but a very excellent system of cash-collection would
enable the co. to trade on such a scale on its present
funds ; and, since it may not always be possible to
get the payments in so, promptly, the sooner the co-
operators leave more bonuses or other money in the
business the better it will be for themselves by-and-
bye.
* * * *
The Westralian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Apl., 1906, . 1252 . 10 p.c. = 525 727 9,870
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 „ „ 525 189 10,1159
Apl., 1907.. 1197 15 „„ 787 410 10,469
Oct., 1907.. 1589 20 „ „ 1050 389 150 10,619
Apl., 1908.. 1275 10 „ „ 525 1000 10,369
Oct., 1908. . 1107 10 „ „ 525 582 10,951
Apl., 1909.. 1075 20 „ „ 1050 25 10,976
Oct. 1909.. 1557 10 „„ 525 1032 12,008
Apl., 1910.. 1831 20 „ „ 1050 268 513 12,521
Oct., 1910.. 1616 20 „ „ 1050 66 500 13,021
Apl. 1911.. 1892 30 „ „ 1575 317 13,338
Oct. 1911.. 1898 20 ~,, 1155 743 14,081
Apl., 1912.. 1691 28 „ „ 1628 63 14,144
Oct., 1912.. 1461 18$ „ „ 1155 306 14,450
Apl., 1913.. 1888 26§ „ „ 1680 219 14,439
Oct., 1913.. 1757 17| „ „ 1150 607 15,046
Apl., 1914.. 1587 25$ „ „ 1650 14,983
The directors have decided to make a call of Is. per
share, thus bringing the paid capital up to £14,000,
or 14s. a share, and it isn’t very likely that there
will be a howl of protest. This leaves uncalled £1
16s. a share, equal in all to £36,000, which serves
to bind the co. over to keep the peace and be of good
behavior. Besides that there is £12,898 (represented
by the certificate of title of the co.’s premises) de-
posited with the State Treasurer as a further guaran-
tee of righteous conduct. The co. has been
making steady progress—in fact, of recent years ex-
ceedingly rapid progress. Seven years ago trust estates
in hand were £501,355; at April, 1909, the total
was £1,122,835; 12 months ago, £1,552,468; at
the end of April last, £1,550,157. The co.’s com-
missions for the past six months amounted to £3948;
interest earnings, rents, etc., were £lOBl, the latter
being almost sufficient to pay a 15 p.c. dividend
without any. help whatever from the trust and agency
business. But - mainly owing to increased exes, and
smaller commissions, the profit. hasn’t shown an in-
crease to correspond with the other movements. Still,
the co. has got itself firmly established on the
ladder; and when a trustee co. starts to climb, the
process seems to come easier and be more rapid as
it goes along. During its first few years it can’t
show much for its labors; it may get the v promise of
work, but the.prospective clients won’t hurry up their
■funerals and give the co. a chance to actualty v ? arn
money: Later on, they begin to die in a more con-
siderate manner; and then, as in this case, the
fruits of the earlier waiting and working are plucked.
National Building and Investment
Society (Adelaide) :
Profit on Net Profit To Reduce
April, Business. on Sales. Deficit. Deficit.
1903 .. £399 £147 £546 £8059
Forfeited capital ... 77 7982
1904 .. 520 60 580 7402
Forfeited capital .. 2734 4668
Loss.
1905 .. 460 107 353 4315
Forfeited capital .. 92 4223
Profit.
1906 .. 100 99 199 4024
1907 .. 344 20 364 3660
Forfeited capital .. 1776 1884
1908 .. 565 315 880 1004
Reserves.
1909 .. 505 672 1177 173
To Reserves.
1910 .. 417 1137 1554 1727
1911 .. 280 771 1051 2778
1912 .. 120 59 179 2957
1913 14 270 284 3241
1914 . . 3 128 131 3372
Close on to 40 years ago Adelaide had a land boom,
too; and this co. set out with the philanthropic in-
tention of supplying people with building blocks and
helping them to establish homes. Dividends were to
be merely an incident. As a matter of fact, they
haven’t been much even of an incident; for just
when the co. had a nice lot of land ready to sell
the wretched boom exploded, and ever since then the
co. has been nursing the fragments and getting rid
of them as opportunity offered. For many years
opportunity scarcely offered at all. Even as late as
1907 the directors estimated that they couldn’t rely
on getting more than 17s. in the £ of the unre-
turned capital, and they offered 10s. to those share-
holders who wanted quick money. A few took it,
but not many; which was very lucky for the
majority, seeing that good seasons have been almost
the rule in S. Aus. since then, and the fragments of
land have been going off so well that in all 17s.
in the £ has been paid back to shareholders. Thei'e
is only £3634 of capital now left to repay ; and
as nearly all the assets are now advances on mort-
gage—amply secured, the directors say—there should
be enough to pay the other 3s. and probably half
a crown into the bargain. Current exes, are naturally
not very great; still they absorb over £350, which
is nearly as much as the co. collects as interest on
its mortgages. The sensible thing would be to look
around and find some bigger concern which would
take the assets over, pay the shareholders cash, and
thus save them the quite unnecessary expense of
keeping the corpse alive.
* * * *
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide) :
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1901 ..£5,049 Nil £2542 £2507 £4694
1903 .. 6,665 8-J p.c. = £5762 1134 4463
1904 .. 6,041 71 „,, 4939 750 352 4815
1905 . . 5,609 71 „ „ 4939 750 4735
1906 .. 5,890 7A „ „ 4939 750 201 4936
1907 . . 4,883 6j „ „ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss.
1908 . . 632 Nil 4321
Profit.
1909 .. 6,426 71 p.c. = 4939 2000 3808
1910 . . 10,863 10 „ „ 6585 3000 1278 5086
1911 .. 10,909 10 „ „ 6585 3000 1324 6410
1912 . . 11,960 10 „ „ 6585 3000 2375 8785
1913 .. 10,262 10 „ „ 6585 3000 677 9462
1914 .. 7,677 71 „„ 4939 3000 9200
The reserves are described as nominal on account of
the cheerful habit the co. has of lumping together
various and diverse assets, “Freeholds, leaseholds,
plant, goodwill, live and rolling stock”—a conglom-
eration that stands in the books at £64,742. The
£3OOO written off for the past year is made up of
three separate amounts of £lOOO, struck off plant,
freeholds and leaseholds. Nothing is carved off good-
will, nor is any idea given of its size. It doesn’t look
very pleasant to see the big slump in profits just at
a time when almost every co. is making records, and
the directors blame “trade depression and increased
competition” and a small salt harvest due to the
lack of rain. The trade competition isn’t altogether
unexpected. Naturally it is unfortunate for the co. ;
but, provided that it is with a local product and
not an imported article, it is not so unfortunate for
Australia. If it is with imported goods, then a
higher duty than the present 15 p.c. is necessary.
Just how much the co. owes to Protection can best
be judged by comparing the profits for the past three
or four years with those of a decade ago. But the
same Protection has also helped local competitors,
and whether that competition will have the same
effect on previous years’ profits as it has on the past
year’s remains to be seen. Another thing: the co.
depends entirely for its supply of the raw product
on Nature. During the winter the low-lying fore-
shores round Yorketown (S.A.) are under water.
The moisture dries up in the summer and leaves
behind it a deposit of salt, which this co. ploughs
up and refines. Consequently any oversight on the
part of Nature means a poor crop, and a poor crop
means poor profits. The co.’s habit of handing out
a dividend in excess of what the shareholders are
justly entitled to—at any rate, on paper—has re-
sulted in poor progress being made so far as what
may be called the cash position is concerned:—■
1904. 1914.
Assets other than fixed property and
plant £26,663 £29,774
Liabilities 13,036 13,832
Excess assets £13,627 £15,942
An improvement of £3315 in 10 years isn’t very
reckless travelling. Very liberal allowances have,
however, been made for depreciation, and no doubt
the profits thus written off have gone back into the
undertaking. During the same 10 years sales of salt
have moved in this way: 1904, £10,773 ; 1913,
£14,543; 1914, £11,875. The co. has lately in-
stalled new plant and hopes by this means to be able
to turn out the refined article more economically, and
thus regain some of the lost ground. As for the
future, there is no assurance that the supplies of salt
are everlasting ; but, so far, there has been no dimi-
nution, apparently, in the supply, and the local in-
vestor has ceased to have much anxiety about this
aspect of the matter. ,i
Queensland Cement and Lime Co. —
This co. is asking for £82,000 on a 6 p.c. cumula-
tive pref. issue. The vendors and oromoters take
18,000 ordinary £1 shares, and £2OOO cash; and
after these ordinaries have got 6 p.c. also, “both
classes share equally in any further distribution.”
In the first place it should be noted that a prefer-
ence in a case like this is not worth very much.
Where there is £lOO,OOO of capital in ordinarv
shares and (say) £40,000 in prefs., the position is
very different: the prefs. then have £140,000 of
capital to earn their crust for them. In the present
instance no money except what the prefs. themselves
put up will be earning anything. However, the
promoters do the right thing in consenting to take
a second bite only. The co.’s purpose is altogether
admirable: it is to manufacture cement and thus
displace the foreign article now imported to Queens-
land in considerable quantities. Last year £57,721
(26,817 tons) of foreign cement reached Queens-
land ; but that is much above the average—it was
nearly as much as in the preceding four years put
together. Requirements during the next few years
will probably be large; but when the loan and con-
struction boom breaks, the demand will shrink so
very much that it is doubtful whether extensive
works will find an outlet for their products. Cer-
tainly there are the other States ; but they are getting
pretty well supplied with cement works, too. It is
something in favor of this co. that Brisbane has just
set out on a big and long-delayed water and sewerage
scheme, which will mop up, it is estimated, 100,000
tons of cement within the next 15 years. The raw
materials are certified all right, and they are handily
situated; and there is enough margin between the
price at which foreign cement is sold and that
at which a Continental co. of machinery makers
guarantees to turn out 30,000 tons a year. The
biggest question is whether a local market for 30,000
tons can be depended upon, with the price at any-
thing over 655. per ton. City (Brisbane) applica-
tions close on the 15th ; and inter-state ditto
on the 23rd.
Shareholders in Hans Irvine’s Black
Range (W.A.) were promised quarterly shilling
divs. at the last meeting, but results for the first
four months of the year show that this can’t be
done for the present. Still, the mine hasn’t done
badly to date. Its total output since passing out
of the hands of its original owners has been
205,316 tons for £692,204, and £243,7,18 of this
has gone into shareholders’ pockets. And the end
is not in sight yet.
* * * *
Golden Ridge shareholders foregathered
at. Kalgoorlie the other day to hear the half-yearly
report of the Board. Regret was expressed by the
chairman that operations for the past six months


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS.
WALTER C. WATT
(Chairman!.
Hon. MOSES,
M.L.C.
Hon. R. J. BLACK,
M.L.C.
T. H. KELLY.
J. 0. FAIRFAX.
Subscribed Capital
£1,000,000 0
Uncalled Capital 950,000 0
Reserves and
Undivided Profits 62,000 0
Perpetual Deposit
with Government 20,000 0
0
0
0
0
Trust Funds under Administration as
at 31st March, 1914. £11,091,895 6 3
Absolute Security and Efficiency of Trust
Management is assured by the Appoint,
ment of this Company to act as
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR, ADMINISTRATOR,
ATTORNEY UNDER POWER, AGENT, Etc.
REASONABLE CHARGES.
Write or call for Booklet.
A. 0. MACKENZIE, Manager
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Asst. Manager.'
EFFICIENT SERVICE
under all conditions is ensured
by installing
PI
jA
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
Write lor Catalogue to
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Two words loom large on the business horizon to-
day—economy and efficiency—-both are of equal im-
portance, for without one you can hardly have the
other. “Pioneer” Leather Belting is doing the manu-
facturing and mining world a service in adding a
tried, tested and guaranteed aid to the efficiency and
economy of power transmission. “Pioneer” Leather
Belts are made from the centre cuts of flawless Aus-
tralian ox hides, which are oak-tanned in the
“Pioneer” tannery, and subsequently built up with
best materials and workmanship in the “Pioneer”
factory. “Pioneer” Leather Belting runs slacker
than ordinary belting, and this means greater power
conveyance with less strain on shafting and less fric-
tion on bearings. Let us send you samples and
prices. Made only by J. O. Ludowici and Son, 117
York Street, Sydney; and sold in Victoria by Geo.
Russell P’t’y Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; in
South Australia by J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port
Adelaide; in Queensland by Queensland Machinery
Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia by Horace
Summers, Howard Street, Perth; in Broken Hill by
Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wrn. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Ilardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Ilardinge Conical Mill is the most efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they say this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis F.ng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from Financial News, London, July 12,
1911: “The annual report of the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society affords abundant evidence
that “Forward” is still the watchword of the
directors; for in every direction admirable progress
has been achieved.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE can be laid in places
inaccessible to heavier kinds of piping. All the
materials for the largest wood stave pipe may be
carried by pack horses. Catalogue from Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Svdney (Head
Office).*
Our Brisbane house advises having secured—in
spite of keenest competition—the following orders:
96-b.h.p. Double Cylinder Suction Gas Engine and
Plant for Mount Morgan Tailings Syndicate ; 59-b.h.p.
for Bolton & Co., Brewery, Mackay; 28-b.h.p. for
Standard Waygood Hercules Co. ; and 22-b.h.p. for H.
Paris, Esq., Gayndah. Immediate delivery can be
given of most sizes from our stocks at Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane depots. R. Hornsby & Sons,
Ltd.*
* * * *
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum." Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co., Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modem scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * ♦
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street;
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concernin''
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles : chemicals ; etc *
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
Has the Greatest Uniformity of Quality of any Steel on the Market.
’Phone
CITY-8332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
had been practically barren of results, but he asked
all present to live in hope of something turning up.
He stated that a couple of bore-holes would be drilled
to test the ore channel some distance north of the
end of the present workings, on the off-chance of get-
ting payable ore. The policy of accumulating profits
is to be continued ; but should the Board fail to get
hold of a new mine before the next half-yearly
meeting, the advisableness of distributing the cash
reserves, which now amount to nearly £20,000, is
to be considered.
Corinthian North (W.A.) is installing a
3000-tons-a-month sulphide mill to work conjointly
with the oxidised-treatrnent plant at present in opera-
tion. Large bodies of both classes of ore are visible
in the property, and the adjoining Corinthian lease,
which the co. recently acquired, is also reckoned to
have a good deal of payable stuff.
Some drilling is to be done in South Kal-
gurli (W.A.), to test the north end of the lease.
Holes are to be bored several hundred feet north of
where any prospecting has hitherto been done, and
there is just a chance of the co. getting a turn-up.
Several fairly good runs of ore have lately been
exposed in the property; but they are all needed
with the shares standing at the price they are.
F. A, Govett presided at the Ivanhoe
meeting in London, and as usual talked like a “best-
selling” book. Holding forth on the subject of divi-
dends he said that for the current year the present
monthly profit should suffice for a total div. of
between 11s. and 125.; but, as a month had been
lost by the fire, it would probably be wisest to
distribute at the rate of 2s. 6d. per quarter and
leave it till the end of the year to see if the full
12s. could be paid. As regards grade he hoped it
would be a long while before the co. had to make
any further reduction and so further pare the div.
Growing eloquent on “hopes in depth,” Govett re-
marked that there was the unwelcome fact that for
something over 1000 ft. in depth the probabilities
of getting anything worth having in the porphyry
country were poor, and the co. was left to hope that
it might get something below. There was, he said,
a likelihood of some good patches of ore being got
in the porphyry, but they would require finding, and
with matters in this condition the Board did not
propose to go to the expense of a new hoist for
greater depth until something more is known as to
what the mine is like deeper down. Meantime
there is plenty of ore available for the mill.
The W.A. Mountain Queen’s accounts for
the past financial year show a surplus of £11,842
after allowing for cost of working, development, de-
preciation and London exes. Out of this £7133
was expended in maintaining the Transvaal lease
and ascertaining (with so far disappointing results)
whether values, which dwindled considerably at the
No. 4 level, make again at a greater depth. The
oxidised reserves in the Mountain Queen lease, which
looked like giving out, were augmented during the
year by the discovery of a payable surface deposit
from which 10,000-odd tons were dug and treated.
According to the directors’ report, development of
the sulphide zone in the bottom levels has been
suspended until it is ascertained what profit from
its treatment can be obtained in actual practice ;
but .as far as can be learned from other sources, the
real reason why things are at a standstill is that the
sulphides are no good and that if the co. could get
the few-miles-distant Great Victoria mine at any-
thing like a reasonable figure, it would shift its
plant as soon as the payable portions of the ore now
opened up in the Mountain Queen lease have been
extracted and treated.
Leonora Main Reef (W.A.) had most of
its surface remains dismantled the other day.
Located 18 years ago it proved profitable to some
local people for a time, and was then palmed off
on a London co. The latter spent a lot of money
on plant, salaries and digging, and then gave it up.
Since then parties of working miners have been hav-
ing a go, but nobody seems to have made much out
of the work. A group in the same locality which
seems to be turning out better than expected is that
owned by the mysterious Gwalia Central Co. Since
its acquisition two years ago five crushings have
been put through the Government mill for a return
of over £7OOO. From all accounts, however, there
isn’t much showing now.
* * * *
The Melbourne-managed Mary Mac Co.
(W.A.) claims to have made a great deal in taking
over the Lady Harriet lease at Laverton from the
tributors and acquiring some adjoining leases from
the same parties. A new 30-head mill is to be in-
stalled right away, and meantime a profit of £lOOO
a month is expected from the present 10-head bat-
tery. When the 40 head of stamps are running the
probable monthly surplus is estimated at £5OOO ;
but knowing what it does of the line of country. on
which the Lady Harriet and its neighbors are situ-
ated. The Bulletin will be surprised if this antici-
pation is realised.
* * * *
There are not many “bull” points missed
in the Edna Mav (W.A.) report for the half-year;
and no wonder, for the show has been a bright spot
in drab Westralian mining for the past two years
or so. To date, 16,537 tons of ore have been milled
for. a return of, roughly, £5 per ton, including
residues. Now the co. is alleged to have 29,500
tons, worth 955. per ton, proved above the 150 ft. level.
Deducting costs, at, 20s. per ton, about 60s. per share
profit looks from this to be in sight. The market
values the mine at about 40s. The last yield aver-
aged IBdwt... exclusive of residues; and seeing that
such a lot of 2oz. stuff has been reported, the wonder
is why that mark has not been touched so far. The
opening up of the 150 ft, level has added 16,000 tons to
the reserves, and better width and height of stone has
been proved at 73ft. than was expected. The gamble
lies in what is to be got at the next level, seeing
that hard country is now showing at the bottom
of the shaft. As soon as winzing is begun from the
150 ft. level an indication of the food the “bears”
are to have will be provided.
Great Britain (N.S.W.) Sluicing directors
are not feeling well. At the meeting in Sydney last
week chairman John Kirkland “intimated that the
decline in the market price of tin, coupled with the
high rate of wages now being paid and the still higher
rates demanded, is causing concern to the Board, and
shareholders must not be surprised if it becomes
necessary to shut down the mines till better condi-
tions prevail.” It was a rather clumsy way of
giving the straight tip to the employees. • So far,
there is nothing in the accounts or the official reports
to quite justify the gloomy forecast. Last half-vear’s
profit was £1982, or £1463 after allowing liberally
for depreciation, made from 75 tons of black tin—
just under £2O per ton. True, £1463 isn’t much of
a profit; but neither is £5OOO much of a capital.
The cash position is still very fair; stores and fuel
are worth just about as much as the liabilities
amount to, and there is £3300 in cash and unsold
concentrates.
Sam Mayne is taking on an easy job at
the Rupee mine (owned by the Broken Hill Gold
and Copper Co.) compared with his old underground
work at the South mine in the early days. Mean-
time, J. H. Niemann has been posting up the Ben-
digo crowd that is backing the show. His latest
word is that sinking on the outcrop of the Diamond
lode has opened up 2Rt. of ore, giving “good copper
and gold values” ; and, besides that, there are the
Eager, the Campbell and the Barron lodes. The key
to all this wealth presumably is the Niemann pro-
cess, and the hope is cherished of a first clean-up
in July.
B. R. Wise, K.C., when be gets to work
to probe labor conditions at Broken Hill, will have
the help of George Weir, manager of the B. H.
North, and George Kerr, of the local Miners’ Associa-
tion.
Iron Duke copper, in the Dandaloo dis-
trict (N.S.W.j, will sink 100 ft. below water level in
search of payable sulphides. The leases contain 160
acres, and there are the Iron Duke and a big
ironstone formation to prospect. During the last few
years the Duke has sent away small consignments of
picked ore to the smelters, but the decline in copper
and expensive transport are restrictive. The sulphide
zone comes in at about 180 ft. Concentration is
spoken of in a vague way, but it is worth remember-
ing that the high recoveries made by the flotation
process are confined to sulphides. Carbonates and
oxides are just as difficult as ever to handle.
This fact makes deeper sinking to develop sulphide
ore a necessity before considering either a smelter
or a concentrating plant. The completion of the
Tullamore-Tottenham line will help this mine, and
construction is reported to be making good headway.
Something seems to have gone wrong with
the Dutch syndicate that was to put millions into
the tough job of developing the N.S.W. diamond in-
dustry, Anyway, the irrepressible Dan Grove, of
Inyerell, takes three columns in the local paper to
intimate that the syndicate has '“failed to pay me
£3OOO, guaranteed by its accredited agent on Dec.
5, 1912, or my salary and exes.;” wherefore Daniel
will have nothing more to do with the syndicate,
and accepts personal liability for £2OO outstanding
as wages. He says he is now going to America to
open up a dependable market for the gems, and, in-
cidentally, float a three-quarter-million co. to find
them.
* * * *
B. H. Junction North undergoes still
another change, but this time only in the matter of
its legal manager. F. H. Reynolds quits the job to
manage the ore department of a German house with
Australian headquarters in Sydney.
Mount Morgan wound up its financial
year on May 31 with a return of 705 tons copper
and 765't0-., gold, valued at £74,508, from 25,408
tons. Taking the six most recent returns, covering
24 weeks, the revenue was £411,022 from 135,497
tons, which means an average of nearly 665. per ton
of ore. But the dividends are considerably less than
onerfourth of the revenue. Assays of the bulk of the
reserves run 3 p.c. copper and Bdwt. gold, which is
equal to 365. for copper plus 345. for gold; and a
mine that can put out more than 200,000 tons of
this high-grade stuff in 12 months should certainly
do a bit better than £200,000 per annum when out-
lay on plant eases off.
* * * *
Tributors have taken on three famous old
mines. At Charters Towers the Brilliant P.C., which
was a splendid show in its day, is on lease for three
years to Ford and party, who are prospecting the
upper levels that were somewhat damaged by the
fire that occurred in 1904. Mount Perry is also
handed over to tributors, who will try to do what
the Queensland Copper Co. couldn’t do. The third
is the Tasmania goldmine, Beaconsfield (Tas.), where
the State Government will lend the miners a hand.
Tyrconnell (N.Q.) reports a crushing of
122 tons for 109 oz. The value should be given, for
there is a variable proportion of silver with Tyrcon-
nell gold. This return represents a run of eight
days, so the 10-head are crushing 15 tons per day.
The bulk of the stone comes from the 150 ft. and
winzing below this level to prove more stone is
becoming interesting. The crosscut at the 200 ft. is
impeded by a heavy flow of water.
“Net loss on working for the period,
£8760.” This is the record of Long Tunnel, Wal-
halla (Vic.). Like the Tasmania, this distressed
giant requires costly pap to keep it alive. In this
case, too, there is a partnership between State and
Private Enterprise. But there is this difference: In
the Long Tunnel £ 15,857 has been paid up by the
shareholders against a Government advance of
£11,701; while in the Tasmania the State fur-
nishes all funds. Working account has sopped up
£17,881 at the Tunnel. Most of the cash has been
used to deepen the shaft 250 ft., so as to allow levels
to be put in at 3500 ft. and 3625 ft. Meanwhile, stop-
ing has been begun higher up, and the record isn’t
at all dreary. Starting with 6idwt. stuff, the last
506 tons crushed gave a 14Jdwt. average. This stone
was mined from between the 3250 ft. and 3375 ft.
workings, and as a big belt of untouched country lies
overhead, the improvement justifies more cash being
put into this part. Most of the mining engineers
who cocked their eye over the two bottom levels a
fortnight ago wanted to see more stone. To get it, driv-
ing south is on the programme. Cash for this comes
out of a further advance of £7500 by the State and
the issue of 24,000 shares among the faithful, who
rally round the old mine in the belief that Jock
Finlayson can put it on its feet again.
* * * *
Upper Langi Logan doesn’t want for
assurance. No less than six months were spent in
putting down 13 bores. George Bryant’s luck made
this fatal number work so well that a frothy Board
of directors spins out the following: “From the
phenomenal success of our boring operations the
prospects of our co. afford one of the brightest
mining propositions in Victoria.” Having “the
brightest mining proposition” isn’t much in Vic.
nowadays, when calls light the candle ; but it should
have set up a hustle to get to the hidden wealth.
There can’t, however, be much of a hustle on a
threepenny monthly call. George Bryant testifies in
italics that the co. has a very “valuable property
which should be easily and cheaply worked, the
whole of the conditions in regard to same being very
favorable” ; so there isn’t an excuse for loafing.
Heath and J. L. Reilly, as good racing men, should
remember the watch is on them, with Drysdale
Brown in the stipendiary’s box.
Mount Lyell’s expenditure on mine
development and the Mount Margaret power-scheme
is running away with a lot of money, so the forth-
coming dividend is limited to Is. per share. The
main shaft at Mount Lyell is to be sunk to No. 9
level to open up more pyritic ore, which is by no
means in excessive supply underground; in fact,
chairman Bowes Kelly emphasises the importance of
obtaining increased supplies from the South Lyell,
which will connect with Lyell’s No. 9 level. The
North also requires more development before the
output can be increased. With present facilities it
is being worked to its full capacity.
The Anchor tin mine, on the Blue Tier
(Tas.), has thrown in its towel, which seems to be
the only asset that the English shareholders and
debenture owners are likely to retain. The co. owes
the Tasmanian Government £5OOO, and being the
principal creditor, the Government has a prior lien
on the other property. The failure of the co., which
has never paid a div. and has been twice recon-
structed, is due chiefly to the low grade of its ore,
although scarcity of water and scarcity of labor were
minor causes of the downfall ; and the drop in the
price of tin hastened the end. To keep their own
pot ooiling some ot the men on the mine have taken
tributes on easy terms.
The syndicate that is testing the Mount
Coronet (or Coronet Hill) property in the Northern
Territory has just received £l5OO from the Federal
Government as a first instalment of its promised sub-
sidy. The promise was conditional on a good report,
and this was forthcoming from Oliver, Government
Inspector of Mines. Aloysius Kelly and others who
ought to know what they are talking about speak
more confidently than ever of Mount Coronet. The
13ft. of copper ore previously exposed has been con-
siderably extended, and the mine thusfar is looking
“great.”
0.T., Limited, added a new line to its
activities the other week by purchasing the old
Daylesford mineral water business—not the one that
trades in bottled stuff, but the original concern
which of late years has cylindered the water from
the Eganstown Springs. O.T. has taken a 24 years’
lease of the old company’s rights to capture the
Eganstown fluid and the natural gas appertaining
thereto. Also, O. T. has taken over P. G. Dixon’s
aerated-water factory, and has started to manufac-
ture its own bottles, not to mention bottles for the
trade at large.
One of the most curious little mines in
Australasia is away up towards the summit of the
broken mountains which reach their highest in
Earnslaw, at the head of Lake Wakatipu, in the
Southern Alps of Maoriland. The metal is scheelite,
and it occurs so far up above the snow-line that
it is only possible to work there for three to five
months in the year. Stores have to be laboriously
packed up and ore. laboriously packed down; never-
theless the owner is reputed to make a very com-
fortable little thing out of it, and the men draw
wages which are mentioned with awe in those very
frugal parts. There is an eager market for the
metal, which is sent to Europe and used bv the
people of those highly-civilised parts for hardening
steel to make things to kill one another with.
Helped by high prices and rich wash dirt.
Tongkah Compound, Siam, has put up a remarkable
record. Two years’ dredging to September 30, 1913,
gave 1193 tons of black tin from 1,208,708 cubic
yards; the average right through has been a shade
over 21b. per yard. The Average cost of handling
a yard of dirt has been less than 6d. ; the cost per
ton of black tin, £22 per ton. The last reported
yield averaged 1.161 b. per yard, so there isn’t any
certainty of recovering 21b. per yard in future. In
two years this concern produced £146,307 worth
of tin, made a profit of £120.912, and paid away
£84.860 in dividends. Averaging the future yield
at lib. per yard and the costs at 6d.. black tin'will
cost £56 per ton. What the value of black tin will
be no one can tell, but a drop of £4O a ton in 12
months ( £l4O to £100) is a warning not to be
too optimistic. Even Mount Bischoff feels the pinch,
and has reduced its dividend to ss.
Digby Denham is back, flushed with his
luck in striking J. Bull Cohen for a couple of mil-
lions at the right moment. The whole lot was sub-
scribed in one morning—which simply means that
the applications were arranged beforehand. John
Bull, it seems, “is beginning to appreciate the
security of the investment offered... .It came as a
revelation to many, I think, to be told that only 6
p.c. of the interest required on Queensland’s loans
was chargeable to revenue. Services realise 94 p.c.
of the amount required.” Denham, of course, didn’t
remind Bull that, when a country is borrowing
millions, its revenue must boom. But Queensland
can’t always be borrowing millions, and when it
isn’t, and when poor seasons hit it, the revenue
figures tell a different tale. For the last two years
covered by the most recent issue of Queensland
official statistics, things have been like this:-
Revenue. Expenditure. Surplus.
1911 ..£5,320,008 £5,314,737 £5,271
1912 . . 5,989,347 5,965,692 23,655
On the other hand, a few years back things were
like this
Revenue. Expenditure. Deficit.
1903 . . £4,185,125 £4,376,466 £191,341
1904 . . 4,249,385 4,261,826 12,441
John Bull’s security may be all right; he has the
whole taxable wealth of the country to draw on.
But how the country will feel in bad times, when
John Bull draws and Queensland has to pay, is
another matter.
La Canchela: Yes, it has been a distress-
ingly mismanaged business ; but certainly the present
doesn’t seem an appropriate time to quit. ~ .P.R.G.:
It is overloaded with goodwill, and the people in
charge of the team don’t appear to know much about
getting out of a bog.
“Main”: The directors of Cardwell Oil
00. make their case worse (B. 4/6/’l4). They
admit having only £750 (with £750 of reserve
shares optioned, and that means nothing), and they
say in excuse that they’re not going to “develop 10
square miles on the Coorong.” But that is just
what they should do. Instead, they will put down
“shallow bores,” and also acquire “several other
areas, not only in South Australia, but in New Cale-
donia and German New Guinea.” Apparently the idea
is to blanket a lot of country and wait for some-
body else to do the locating or to blow hot air into
the shares. There’s no room in oil prospecting in
Australia for these things with little sugar and much
water.
* * * *
To make money without working for it is
easy, at least for a time, when you know how. An in-
genious Sydney citizen recently drew a cheque for
£175 in a fictitious name, forged the hieroglyphics
of the ledger-keeper, and cashed the paper over the
counter. This dodge is not difficult. Most banks merely
require the ledger-keeper to scribble a sometimes
easy-to-copy autograph on the cheque, and that
scrawl is the only protection the paying teller has.
Provided a common name is selected and a small
amount filled in, it is soft work to cash such a
cheque on a busy morning. The wonder is it hasn’t
been done oftener. But it required nerve to pouch
£175.
“Adelaide”: South Australia’s wheat yield
for the past season is officially stated at 17 million
bushels, with an average of 71 bushels to the acre, as
against last year's '2l millions, and an average crop of
10 bushels. The whole harvest was an unusual gamble,
a desperately dry winter 'being followed by a splendid
spring, with hot winds in December turning the scale
again. Farmers m the older districts did not do
very badly, but the official figures are pulled down
by over 200,000 acres which failed utterly, and by
big tracts of the newly-settled West Coast land, which
averaged one bushel or less. Goyder’s old Line of
Rainfall is taking its revenge on some of those who
go far outside it. Anyway, S.A. has got over four
millions sterling out of the land for the season. And,
as a side-line, the farmers keep 57 local implement
factories going (counting only those employing four
men), finding work for 1200 pairs of hands, and
turning out about £300,000 worth of machines. ■


Charles
Herat®
Vmtage‘l9o6
CMnwffi
ME PLUS ULTRA
M
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
WOMEN’S WEAK NERVES
Many women suffer from hyper-
sensitiveness of the nervous system,
induced by many causes. Excessive
nervousness is the bane of many lives,
and often a severe attack of nervous
breakdown follows on heavy, exacting
social or domestic duties. Where the
nerves are shattered by physical or
mental strain this is the medicine to
be relied on to quickly strengthen them.
CLEMENTS TONIC
Miss A. M. Cardwell, Coree, Booth
Street, Annandale, for many years head-
mistress in N.S.W. Public Schools, writes:
“When teaching in N.S.W. State
schools 1 often resorted to Clements
Tonic. It was such a restorative it
never failed me. No household should
he without it.
(Signed) A. M. CARDWELL.”
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
Etablis depuis 1795, dans le chateau de Cognac
oil est ne le roi FRANCOIS FI de France.
A WOMAN'S
LEŢER
Sydney, June 8, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
One garden party being a good deal like
another, the recent dress parade at Admiralty
House bore a strong family likeness to irs
predecessors on the same terraced lawns.
The company made an uneventful voyage
from Man-o’-war Steps to its destination in
a ferry boat, ably assisted by some of the
small, panting launches an Admiral can
always summon to his aid. Landing—they
had to land, of course —Society and others
made the steep a'seent to the top sward by
various short, fat stone steps. In this slow
and crowded pilgrimage they had ample time
to observe objects of interest on the way,
such as Master Patey, aged a very few sum-
mers, industriously slipping down and climb-
ing up a grassy bank.
Governor Strickland, his fair-haired trea-
sure, daughter Mary, and the usual official
background, were in the crowd that assembled
round the plateau where Society gets its
breath before making its rush for early doors
to the food supply. The Admiral and his
lady shook every size in hands as the visitors
gasped out their names to a tar in waiting.
Long coats advanced in battalions, and huge
fur mats accompanied by muffs the size of
beer barrels submerged any Woman who was
under six feet high.
The Belgian Consul, remarkable for his
dapper appearance and shiny patent boots,
wore one of the few moustaches present. Mrs.
Consul, also very highly polished in her shoe
leather, had one of the big brown fur- drapes
of the moment round her French-looking
shoulders. Mrs. Philip Morton’s pensive
appearance was swathed in sables, caught
with a few meek white blooms. Dr. Stephens
brought along a nice-looking sister, and
planted her on the tennis lawn, where the
early arrivals had already pegged out their
claims for tables dotted with the fatted
cream-puff. The Ernest Broughtons and
the Corlettes were camped in the same tea-
laden atmosphere. Florence and Adele
Brennan were chaperoned by mamma, in a
tailored suit of periwinkle blue of the
latest cut. Amongst the long-coats present
may be mentioned, with respect, a sealskin
which surrounded Mrs. Pritchard Bassett
and reduced ladies in fuzzy-wuzzy black
wraps to silent anguish. The Law, the
Church, the Political Situation, and Medi-
cine were profusely represented.
West-o’-Darling squatters make the
Broken Hill Picnic Races an annual
rendezvous. This year one of the best-
known family parties was absent; the
Broughams, of Poolamacca, passed the fix-
ture on account of the recent death of Mrs.
“Ted” Dickens, Mrs. Brougham’s sister.
They were Desailly girls, daughters of the
best-known of early-day settlers in the Far
West. “Ted”—Edward Bulwer Lytton in a
formal way—was the youngest son of
Charles, and it was for him that his famous
parent made his not-very-sucessful attempt
at a children’s Bible. An easy-going fellow,
he got into the public eye only once, and
that was when his old pals at Wilcannia
sent him to Parliament. He died some years
ago. They leave no children, I believe.
John Lemmone has gone off to meet
Melba in Westralia. He is fixing up
arrangements for a concert in the West.
It’s about 12 years since Perth heard our
Australian skylark’s trill, and it has been
promised another warble from Melba for
quite 10 summers. The long-standing lOU
will be cashed on July 9.
Still another young Australian artist is
battling to the front at an age when most
French girls are munching chocolates, or
saying “Oui, Maman!” Maisie Edwards,
an ex-“ Tech.” student (Sydney), has had
a picture accepted for exhibition at the
Spring Salon in Paris. Maisie, who is just
19, is off the Australian coast in the Nera
as I scrawl this news. With her mother,
she has been “abroad” for the last year, and
the pair of homing pigeons are mighty glad
to smell Australian gum-trees again.
When Excellency Murray, of Papua,
landed his long, lean figure in Sydney the
other day he had in his carpet-bag some-
thing that made him a glad man. It wasn’t
much to look at ; it was merely a bicycle
tyre, in fact. But on it was stamped “Manu-
factured from Papuan plantation rubber.”
It was part of the firstfruits of the harvest
of which Australia’s home-grown represen-
lative in Papua has been dreaming. If
you decided to turn yourself into 10 centi-
pedes and treat each of your pairs of legs
to a bicycle, you probably couldn’t oblige
them all with Papuan-shod rubber. But
Hubert Murray’s big Possession has made a
start in rubber-export, and that’s some-
thing. In the faintest whisper, because I
don’t know that you’re supposed to know
this, I’ll tell you that the stuff came from
Rupert Clarke’s plantation. When the
trees were put in the rush for motor-car
tyres had sent the price breathlessly up to
half-a-sovereign a pound. Now it is only
lialf-a-crown. But it won’t fall much lower,
or they’ll be using it for breakfast steak,
and that will steady the market.
The July Carnival on Kosciusko is luring
a number of inter-State ski-ers. Mrs. E.
Creswick and a daughter, of Malvern (Vic.) ;
Dr. G. C. Mathison, of Melbourne; and
another Victorian stethoscope, Dr. Geoff.
Owen, are going to muffle themselves up in
warm undergarments for the event. And
pastoralist O. .Cadell, of Quirindi, will add
his muscle to the frosty occasion.
Barrister A. G. Pitt and his mother and
sister are booked for portion of the ski
season at Kosciusko. The lithe Pitt is an
expert in snowshoes. He has the record of
being the only tourist to clamber to the sum-
mit of Kosciusko when it was suffocated in
last year’s midwinter snow. lie picked up
the chamois leap on Swiss peaks.
Mrs. Kelty, a confirmed Darling Pointer,
is going to tiie July Carnival in a party that
includes Mrs. Cargill, Mrs. and Miss Whit-
ney and Mrs. Hood. At Kosciusko, by
the way, they will be able to say “How-doV”
to some of Mawson’s Antarctic dogs and a
couple of Antarctic sleds made in Sydney for
the Southern expeditions. One of these
sleds, used by the late-lamented Scott, is
now treated with respect as an exhibit. The
other, which helped Mawson over the frozen
hillocks, ploughs the wintry track between
the hostel and Betts’s Camp with stores.
The Esquimau dogs have taken kindly to
their new home, and don’t bay at the lady
moon more often than mere suburban pups.
D. C. Bates, who has charge of Maoriland’s
uncertain weather, is over on business con-
nected with the doming of storms and the
mystery of cyclones. A meteorological con-
ference, or whatever it is called, is going to
sit here shortly. Mr. Hunt, the Common-
wealth’s expert, comes across from Melbourne
to join in the discussion.
It is a fact that Amy Castles has tempo-
rarily abandoned the bellowdious noises of
German music, in which she has recently beom
lifting up her voice. The Bendigo girl is
seriously studying Italian opera under Hazon
in Milan. Like Clara Butt, Amy Castles
began her career with sensational
heavy load for youth to carry. Now, like
the great English contralto, the Australian
soprano has realised that there is no blazed
trail to glory. The student has to slog at
hewing a path for herself, and it is the slogger
who gets there always. Amy’s vocal
methods during her last visit proved that
her capacity for work had been about 50 per
cent, below par. She couldn’t have picked
a better teacher than the irascible Hazon to
shake her into form.
When last heard of, long Jack Cormack,
formerly of the N.S.W.’Tourist Department,
had returned to London after scouring Eng-
land, Scotland and (of course!) Paris in
search of notions to help him in his new
billet. His headquarters, while he does two
years time as chief barracker for our irri-
gation settlements, are in the Thames vil-
lage.
Youthful baritone Stanley Leadley, whose
.farewell concert brought in a comforting heap
of shekels, is going to study in Italy. Here
he has had a good push in the right direction
from Andrew Black. Stanley, who is
rather like a promising young curate him-
self, is a son of Methodist parson Leadley,
of Glebe Point.
The W. A. Holmans’ afternoon party to
fiddler Mischa Elman introduced that youth-
ful prodigy to scores of Sydney folks who
hope to hear him later on. Mischa, yno
bounced in and out of this town so quic.Gy
that he had scarcely time to notice the
roar of its traffic or the life and death
struggle of pedestrians to cross George-street,
is a small, serious young man. His dome-
like forehead slopes back into an expansive
vista before it meets his back-hair, which
is cropped close to his musical scalp. _ Papa
Elman, who shepherds his pet lamb in his
walks abroad, hovered near his phenomenon
with almost maternal solicitude. The older
man is so exactly like a German professor
who has caught a French manner by some
miracle —the average Teuton being about
as soft-spoken as his grunting language
that it’s hard to index him as "Russian-
Jew.” Eva Gauthier tripped into this
gathering under millinery that waggled an
ostrich plume of such circumference that it
made a breeze as it whisked through the air.
The Bulletin’s “Hop,” now wandering
in U.S.A., sent a postcard from Vancouver
remarking “All’s well —going Eastward ho!”
Canada’s strenuous attention to advertising
is the cause of an informative postal circle
on this p.c. calling attention to the Van-
couver Exhibition in September. Wonder
if we’ll ever get moving with this hard-
headed attention to possible tourists?
Penleigh Boyd’s pictures, now on view in
the R.A. Society’s rooms (Pitt-street), are
the work of a youthful artist who sees the
world through the rosy-tinted specs, of 23
short, joyous years. He brings a fresh and
boyish outlook to hear on his numerous land-
scapes. which are in two mediums —oil and
water-colors. Yet “The White Queen”
(which is really a white gum tree) is a
mature sample of brush work, and the Vic-
torian artist isn’t likely to do anything better
of'its kind. The lights and shades and tan
freckles on Ihe writhing bole of the big
eucalyptus are worth a place in our National
Gallery. The French studies come next in
importance. There’s a snowy wintry scene in
Paris, with an avenue of tall trees dressed in
scanty red and russet leaves, that makes you
think of Mimi (in “BohSme”) warming her
hands before she coughs out her final top-
note. Penleigh Boyd has a young affection
for splashing water. This has beguiled him
into taking immense pains to depict the wet
expression of a playing fountain in the Lux-
embourg Gardens. Somebody must paint
fountains, 1 suppose; they seem to belong to
Ihe art that helps to sell a handkerchief-box
and its contents at 2s. 113 d. Recent sketches
of the Blue Mountains, and the reminiscences
of a summer holiday in Tassy’s Isle, may
he commended to collectors who want to catch
their artist young, before his prices go up.
Penleigh himself is in the tall, slim sapling
stage of growth.
Dr. L. Parry, for a while in charge of the
Sydney Hospital, weds Miss Rene Gates this
week. The bride belongs to a family which
is something solid in business —I think it is
in the produce line. She says “I will”
amidst a great clatter of guests, and
supported by the consciousness of wed-
dinc presents that will outdo any other col-
lection of the kind, in its own neighborhood,
for the next month or so.
11. N. Southwell turned Cook’s Tourist,
and recently did Antwerp, Amsterdam and
Brussels. He is just getting used to being
off the chain, and ambles through miles of
picture galleries at a slow jog-trot. In
Paris he had more than a crust to eat in
Melba’s palatial flat. “I have never been
so supremely free from care,” he writes, “as
during my happy loitering tour in Italy. . . .
Distances between cities here seem absurdly
small. I leave Paris at 9.30 a.m. and am
timed for London 5 p.m... . .In Milan I had
much kindness from the Hazon family.
Rita, the younger daughter, may give a harp
concert in London in September. Both girls
are like their mother in delicate prettiness. ..
Travelling from Brussels to Paris I met Mr.
and Mrs. H. C. Charlton, of Sydney. They
had taken the east direction from Venice,
and I the west, yet we met unexpectedly in
a narrow street in Amsterdam... .In Rome
and Naples I spent some pleasant afternoons
with Mrs. and Miss Cowlishaw (Sydney).
Walking along the pier at Schevci.ingen, a
popular watering-place. I met Mr. and Mrs.
Bruce Mackenzie. Pie has been a well-
known tennis player, but recently lost an
arm in a N.S.W. railway accident. Mrs.
Mackenzie is well stocked with art know-
ledge, and we all did galleries and cathedrals
together.”
Mrs. Allen, the brainy “Vesta” of Mel-
bourne Argus, has returned to her inky lair
after a few weeks’ holiday in this township.
She has been staying with Mrs. Gordon
Craig, a circumstance that gives the lie to
the cynicism that women’s friendships wear
out faster than cotton socks. These two
were girls together in Maoriland, and Time
has only dragged them into closer compan-
ship when “Vesta” wipes her nib for a jaunt
this way.
Jap night at the Salon de Luxe last week
brought forth a few kimonos and the usual
hard-worked chrysanthemum. But the
fancy-dress portion of the assembly was more
or less annihilated by the frocking of Society
and by the myriads of bobbing lanterns that
flung a tropic twilight on the tango. Man-
ager Bendrodt got the late arrivals in with
a shoehorn or something similar, and every
other motor in town had snorted up to the
marble steps in a goggle-eyed procession by
9 p.m.
At the first song recital of her present
Sydney season Dolores presented her versa-
tile art in a fairly interesting programme.
More ballads would have been acceptable,
though. In spite of the French warbler’s
sure technique, she is nowadays better quali-
fied vocally for songs of the emotions.
Florid music is brutally exacting, and shows
up the slightest wheeze in the middle regis-
ter —the Nemesis that Time has in waiting
for every canary-like trill. The Dolores
voice is still brilliant in its high notes, and
round and full when she slips into low tones.
But her middle register is showing signs of
hard work. This was noticed in the musi-
cal embroidery that Linley wove round “O
Bid Your Faithful Ariel Fly.” In Mozart’s
Aria. “Deh Vieni,” and in the rather glitter-
ing Tschaikowsky items, “Toujours a Toi”
and “Deception,” the singer was more success-
ful, and Foote’s “Irish Folk Song’ and
Mattel’s “Dear Heart” were gems of vocal
art in simple setting. Boyd Wells, at the
piano, was an immediate favorite. Chopin’s
well-known “Ballade” was a delightful per-
formance.
Leonard Dodds and his copper-haired lady
are just back from Java, after a trip through
that moist scenery and its venerable ruins.
The tall John Toohey dame is making a
stately descent on these shores as I write,
after a year or so on the other side.
The second symphony orchestral concert
of the season had a star-spangled interlude
with Leonard Borwick at the piano in Schu-
mann's famous concerto in A Minor. Con-
ductor Bradley was in his usual stand, and
Mrs. Slapoffski Was the female voice of the
occasion.
Purser Williamson, of the Mongolia, is
going to make his annual trek to Kosciusko
next month. The dapper commissariat
officer is very swift on skis, and is a feature
of the storm-bitten landscape every winter.
We are still looking for those outstretched
wings on which, so we are assured on the
worst authority, Capital is flying from
Australia. N.S.W. is more or less bursting
its sides with fat years, and the London
Bank of Australia, like many other com-
mercial institutions, has to find more space
for its money-bags. The bank’s tetrarchs
have bought for £75,000 the land at the
corner of Pitt and Moore streets, almost, but
not quite, the site of the old City Bank.
(After a frantic struggle with a slate and
pencil, 1 find that tins £15,000 works out at
about £l3BO a foot, including the Moore-
street betterment tax.. You can find out for
yourself what the Council means by a better-
ment tax.) The new London Bank building
is to cost something like £65,000. Manager
Millett will have plenty of space to hide his
company’s millions in the premises that are
to he six storeys high. Already there’s a
fierce demand for offices, though the present
buildings on the new site won’t be torn
down till July, 1915.
On Monday night, June 15, our Town
Barn will surge with a concert in aid of the
Hospital for Women and the Ren-
wick Hospital for Infants. Both these
charities are under the wing of the N.S.W.
Benevolent Society, therefore the concert has
to surge. Ten months ago President Neville
Mayman set out on a bushranging campaign
to raise £12,000 for the Cause. He has
already banked about £ll,OOO, and is after
the other thousand with both hands. Every
entertainment for the fund has bulged with
cash. Mr. Mayman has waited on the door-
mat of two musical stars for some days to
entreat their personal assistance at the
concert. They are likely to blush and say
“Yes,” but refuse to allow their_ valuable
names to be mentioned at this crisis. Stael
at the fiddle, Emilie Lambert in her best
voice, tenor Philip Wilson, baritone Appleby
and an orchestra of 60 performers under
conductor Bradley will drag the plain citi-
zen from his fire, however wintry the night
of June 15. Mrs. George Earp has been
prevailed on to uplift her voice on the same
occasion.
Pretty Kathleen Allan has been sur-
rounded by the fuss of linen teas and mere
cake-and-sandwich parties for weeks. On
June 9 she marries Noel S. Brodribb, who
belongs to a well-known Melbourne family.
The girl is a daughter of Mr. Alfred E.
Allan, of Burwood, where the roses and
mosquitoes come from —papa manages the
old “Barrack-street” Savings Bank for the
Government. After the wedding dinner at
Petty’s, the moon will be spent in Banana-
land. A shimmer of ivory satin under lim-
erick lace with a dash of pale pink tulle
(pink is now the craze), and a foam of tulle
by way of a veil, the foam caught with
orange blossoms, go towards the bridal
splendor. It is (it will have occurred be-
fore you get this) to be an evening affair,
and the trimmings will be blush-pink and
white. The Noel Brodribbs are going to
live in Melbourne. This is the third wed-
ding in the Allan family during the last
four months, and the wedding-present rush
will now take a well-earned rest.
Artist Florence Rodway has scored a suc-
cess in a pastel study of a girl which has
been bought before it is off her easel. This
charminv picture might be called “The Green
Fan.” The damsel holds the ancient weapon
of feminine warfare as if she meant mischief,
and she’s tucking a flower in her frock with
a saucy glance down her nose.
Boyd Wells, the pianist with Dolores,
came to this fertile continent in the same
craft that brought his former teacher,
Harold Bauer. Included also in the
Sonoma’s passenger-list were 45 variety ar-
tists and “Snowv” Baker. The crowd wait-
ing on the Sydney wharf represented Boxing
and Music, "which ought to be the sister
arts. The exhilarating spectacle of an in-
furiated musician having a few rounds with
press critics, while the printer’s devil held
the combings of his hyacinthine locks, would
warm the blood this wintry weather.
Arrived here, en route for Brisbane, two
members of the great ’Murkan octopus,
Swifts’ Packing Go., of Chicago. When the
self-made hog sits down to write letters to
himself he usually chooses Chi-cawgo for
his habitat. Swifts is the kind of huge con-
cern where they think in pyramids of beef, and
D. McKinnon and E. J. Hawley, who landed
here the other day. are going to sit down
and think about Australian meat in the
same way.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


‘CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. -At Hampstead Heath.
Ml
'A f.
)
sft? >
a
x
i' 'UiM
v 3:
v\
m
\
m
m
m
m
h
■f?
Si lltll
&
m
a
ft
&
v*
a
fir
'&M
%
OS
■ SB
’Pm- 1 .
3p
/■v
si®
is®
*Sf4;X
S&
2SS/''
w-Jgp
1
88
A
tfb
Lc:
U Wsu^
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the Heath
As costers do.
With the bear
As “donah” he
Takes the outin
J oy ou sly.
With old coster
Ballads they
Ch eer themselves
Thi 'oughout the day.
They must both have
Lungs of leather,
“COBRA’-shined, :
Against all weather !
o*"' ■ - ~ -


OVERCOAT TIME
THE “MATLOCK” FOR BOYS.
This smart little Coat for Boys of three to six years
of age is made with full skirt, buttoned through and
fastening close up to the neck; has adaptable belt,
vent, gauntlet cuffs and Prussian collar as shown in
the illustration. The materials include useful and
stylish Cheviots, Homespuns, Tweeds, Covert Cloths,
also the new Blanket Cloth, in New-tone Browns,
Greys, Fawn Shades and Fancy Mixtures.
PRICES: 13/6, 15/6, 18/6, 21/- to 30/-
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS.
M
A double dissolution makes a double de-
mand on the political “Thinks” of the elec-
tors. But to meet it there is no need to
double their usual attentions to that wisdom-
inspiring spirit, King George IV. topnotch
whisky.*
1
CD
Quality
Tells!
Thousands of Players will
now use nothing else (but.
DUNLOP
TCNNIS BALL;
experience having proved that
these freshly made high - grade
Balls are unequalled for play and
wear. The huge and growing
demand for “Dunlops” is the surest
sign that the Quality, Construction
M
and Price is right.
Try them Yourself...
and prove their worth !
ALL LEADING
SPORTS DEPOTS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES & N.Z.
M
Best
for
Comfort
Tired Feet
can easily be avoided by using
DUNLOP
ROBBER HEEIS
They not only absorb all
jarring, but outwear several
pairs of leather Heels ::::
VARIOUS STYLES. ALL BOOT SHOPS.
ACCEPT ONLY " DUNLOP BRANDS.
ammwmwww'
MK
m
CD
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALU STATES & N.Z,
Best
for
Wear
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 8, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Flemington got a bright crowd on Satur-
day for the first of the Birthday meet-
ing. Blue, sparkling weather made even
State Governor Stanley feel sportful. That
gentle, book-loving soul is only a racegoer
because he feels that it is his duty. Then,
of course, it helps to put in time —and a
State Governor has a terrible lot of time to
put in. It is strongly suspected that he has
to be prompted by his Gentlemen Helps,
otherwise he wouldn’t know when to look ex-
cited. The G.-G. couple were not visible.
Munro Ferguson is a serious, if unsuccessful,
stage-manager of politics, and thus far has
not troubled his head as to which four-legged
animal is likely to get there first. He
Avould just as soon it stayed where it was
and saved expense. The V.R.C. headlights
felt the vice-regal snub keenly. Byron
Moore looked sadly down his torrential
white beard, and Croker seemed to be hardly
as well braced as usual. Casey’s ordinarily
smart wife was under a dowdy, green-black
hat. However, L. McKinnon bucked up,
tipped his hard hat at a rakish angle on his
red hair, and took the unsophisticated Stan-
ley in hand. Secretary Victor Hood and
Gentleman-Help Gale seemed to have delib-
erately adopted a non-sporting air in order
to keep their new chief in countenance. None
of the State Government House womenfolk
paraded for inspection.
Parliamentary folk were present in great
numbers; mostly they got into groups and
completely forgot the horses while discussing
the fresh elections ahead of them. A bache-
lor Tasmanian member complained dismally
about his prospects. “Oh yes, it’s beautiful!
I’ve got to canvass in the snow!” Dr. (Jarty
Salmon declared he was “going for” Bala-
clava this time. Someone who ought to
know asserted that Agar Wynne positively
was not coming forward again.
Mayoress Hennessy walked the lawn in
blue and black with her husband, the Lord
Warden of the Dust Problem. Income-tax
Mackay’s wife looked handsome and well-
dressed, and was a source of rage to many.
Mrs. Bright, wife of old bachelor Reggie’s
nephew, was an autumn-tinted picture from
hair to shoes. Several young brides pranced
proudly in trousseau frocks. Mrs. Moore
(Ailsa Watkinson that was) wore a fashion-
able dress of red cloth calculated to annoy
the tamest bull. The newest Mrs. Knox
(I mean the bride of the latest-married Knox
son) was fawn-colored as to clothes and very
pink about the cheeks. O’Dell Crowther
dimpled in dark furs. Mrs. Bindley (a
Pinschof daughter) put a leopard’s pelt round
her shoulders to make her black tailorings
more effective. Some stranger took the
lawn all day enveloped in a leopard skin,
with some other animal as a hat. Mary
Wynne, niece of politician Agar, appeared
again after a foreign wander. Her clothes
were smart. Mrs. Ambrose Pratt partied with
Mrs. Freddie Shipman. Mrs. Leslie Mac-
donald wore tight blue clothes and a hat like
a Red Indian bonnet. She had two adoring
country flappers in her wake and a couple of
pale youths. Other girls looked envious.
Any young man, providing his clothes are
decent, is a prize in this flapper-haunted
city. Dr. O’Hara, wearing yellow spec-
tacles which didn’t suit his complexion,
chaperoned a girl or two.
Mischa Elman got a shrill and glorious
welcome from the Conservatorium people on
Eastern Hill. All the blooming musical
flappers (no slang in the “blooming”)
stopped for the time being the wild job of
scales, and crowded the staircase, in the
same way as sailors man the bulwarks of
their ship on ceremonial occasions. They
were mostly blushes and giggles and blown-
about hair, and they yelped and clutched in
the most bewitching manner. When the
great young man appeared they yelled
“Hooray!” and the dapper young violinist
bowed delightedly and beamed. Mrs.
Weidermann presented him with a sort
of trophy-address. It was signed by
all the students and was decorated
by Esther Paterson. Mischa thanked
Esther and gallantly remarked that the
wattle in the picture was just the color
of the young artist’s hair. At this all the
listening students clasped their hands and
moaned, “Isn’t he lovely!”
Streeton was due to open his show in the
building the very next day, and all the lovely
stuff was hung in readiness. Also the Streeton
was due to open his show in the building
the very next day, and all the lovely stuff
was hung in readiness. Also the Streeton
draperies and screens decorated the hall.
Streeton always does his own background-
ing, working very hard, and, when necessary,
tearing his hair and winding up his pointed
moustaches. On these terrible occasions he
looks as if he would like to have a tiger’s
tail to lash. (As a matter of fact, I don’t
see w]»y he couldn’t get a second-hand one
cheap.) For a one-man show it is wonder-
ful. In place of his favorite brilliant blue
effects there are impressions of mist and
fog; hut the artist’s genius for light comes
filtering through the thickest haze. How-
ever, the blues dominate one attractive can-
vas—a bit of coast with rocks and rock
shadows in blue waters.
The Munro Ferguson lady gave a tea-party
to some presswomen on Friday. The G.-G.
was not included in the gathering, being en-
gaged dusting and wrapping up a double dis-
solution for Mr. Cook. Her Ex.’s brother,
Frederick Blackwood, walked round the table
pulling his military moustache and dropping
cheerful remarks out of it. If he could
have taken it in both hands and wrung it,
we might have got a complete speech. His
wife, who was ill and booked for the appendi-
citis operation, came in to help entertain the
guests, and was as cheerful as possible. She
had the smartest little tartan silk collar
curling away from the neck of her frock, and
her hair was piled up in a soft heap like an
elaborate bath-time twist. Her Ex. has the
alert eyes of a confirmed “intellectual,” but
rejoices in a soft manner that reassures the
person who has that uncomfortable feeling
of being pitilessly assayed. She was in soft,
clingy black ; but there was a scrap of lace
that made all eyes goggle, and a string of
aquamarine gems at her neck. The Black-
wood pair spoke lovingly—just like
mere ordinary parents—of their two
youngsters, who appear to spend most
of their time in the adjacent Botanical
Gardens. Tommy Curwen poured the tea
with an unerring hand. But men must work,
and women must make them weep, and Gen-
tlemen Helps must pour tea and keep the
Empire together.
Dr. Davenport (with Dr. Dunkeld in
attendance) performed the appendicitis
oneration on the Blackwood lady on Mon-
day. It was a poor way of celebrating the
King’s Birthday.
Griffin, imported American architect for
the Federal Capital that isn’t getting on quite
as fast as a bush-fire, is staying at the Ori-
ental. He is an architect disguised as a
musician of 20 years ago, possessing a mop
of twine-colored hair which he can’t possibly
use in his business. His wife helps him by
coloring his drawings and plans. They have
done a good deal of sketching in the Botani-
cal Gardens lately, and—oh, I told you
before that the Federal Capital was resting,
didn’t I?
Long hair is going out of vogue with
musical genius, and baldness is coming into
notice. Harold Bauer, sitting with the
Charley Taits in the front stalls at the
Mischa Elman concert, showed an almost
monkly patch of crown to the gaze of gal-
lery folk. The rest of his head is still
thickly covered with dark hair that fuzzes
over the temples and helps him to look as
much like a Montenegrin prince as a pianist,
but the germ of baldness is at work on top.
And Mischa, at 22, is already losing his wool
in two places. It is retiring from his mas-
sive brow and getting thin at the very spot
where Bauer feels the draughts. Musicians
of the future will have no locks to spare for
souvenir purposes. The girls will be kissing
them on the head to make it warm.
Mrs. Stead and Miss Agnes Marsh joined
teapots as hostesses at the Repertory Theatre
Club on Friday afternoon. It was the in-
itial First Friday party; the idea is to make
the function a monthly affair. Club members
will take hostess duty in rotation. This is how
our habits are formed for us and life levelled
down to a round of First Fridays, Second
Tuesdays and Ninth Wednesdays.
The Palais de Danse has had the breezy
sides of the building glassed-in and seats
made for chaperones and lookers-on. But
the sitting-out department isn’t crowded
these evenings, most of the patrons going in
for activity and warm feet. Hot coffee is now
laid on, and the adjacent hasheries supply
lots of homeless young men who are
anxious to get away from the hashery fire-
side, its old maids and its bores.
Daisy Jerome has been keeping house at
St. Kilda, assisted therein by her mother,
a French maid or two and her little friend
Kathleen Lindgren, with whom she pro-
fesses to share a weakness for dolls and
Teddy bears. On the advice of the festive-
haired star, pretty Noel Geddes is thinking
seriously of going to London and trying her
luck at the songs-at-the-piano business. By
the way, Daisy has revived the old fashion
of ribbon bracelets in this city. Every
young thing now wears a bow of ribbon
round her wrist. It is rather an old-maidish
idea, and reminds one of Jane Austen and
the senior family tabby.
Dorothy Judge, the bonnie Amurkan girl
who was imported for film dramatic work,
passed through Melbourne last week on her
way to Westralia to visit her mother. When
she returns she will be off to ’Frisco, via
Sydney, with a Noo Yark engagement in
view. The beauteous Miss Judge (why mis-
judge her?) has been nearly two years in
Sydney as leading lady for the Pathd-Snencer
plays, and now she is impatient to be back
in America, where there is so much more
scope for a picture actress who can make
good. And Dorothy Judge, a cross between
Muriel Starr and the typical Gibson Girl in
appearance—strong, healthy and fully
equipped for athletic heroine characters —
strikes one as an ideal young picture-player.
The Williamson firm offered her a 12-months
engagement, but she could see nothing in it.
She can do ever so much (in dollars) by
acting before the camera during daytime.
One of her girl chums in New York has
risen from seven dollars to 250 dollars a
week within the past two years.
Fan Dango-Mackay’s step-daughter Elsie,
who became stage-stricken and went on the
boards in London, was lately taken as under-
study by Mrs. Pat Campbell in Bernard
Shaw’s “Pygmalion.” An excited cable
arrived last week notifying the Melbourne
family that Elsie had got her chance through
the indisposition of Mrs. Pat. I understand
the Thames is still burning fiercely, and that
the people who don’t read their theatrical
news are blaming the suffragettes.
Vera, daughter of writer Randolph Bed-
ford, is a large young girl with twinkling
black eyes and ambitions that make you
catch your breath. She is now writing a
highly-sentimental opera called “Mona,” with
an Italian setting and a Dago story collected
by Dad. She is a student at the Conserva-
torium, where she is concentrating _on
musical composition, while giving some time
to the cultivation of a booming contralto
voice.
Colonel Ballenger’s daughter Gertie was
ambitious to “walk on” in stageland—now
she does so in “Sealed Orders.” She wears
five or six gowns before she gets a chance to
say her three or four words and thereby call
attention to herself and her soft brown hair,
which she leaves undecorated and thus makes
conspicuous.
Dr. Billy Ryan, son of Dr. T. B. Ryan,
of Bacchus Marsh, is taking unto himself
Kathleen Cussen. The ceremony happens
this week at St. Pat’s Cathedral, and after-
wards a big party at the Savoy will fling
confetti about.
The Pierrot Ball in aid of the dependants
of the last batch of mangled Bendigo miners
happens at the Plaza this week. Louise
Pinschof is secretary, and Mrs. George
Tallis is working tooth and nail. I mean
no reflection on the honored office of sec-
retary. So far as I know, Louise is also
working with her teeth.
Two dogs that accompanied Mawson to
the Antarctic are cooped up in an iron cage
at Adelaide Zoo. The poor things seem to
be waiting for another explorer to take them
out again to the snow and freedom. I
think, judging by their looks, they would
even welcome an explorer who intended to
eat them.
The funeral of Sir George Doughty, at
Grimsby (Eng.), nearly resulted in a seri-
ous catastrophe. Some of the crowd in the
Waltham churchyard clambered on to the
iron railings of the wall, and the
weight brought down the spikes with part
of the stonework. Several of the fallen
sightseers were damaged more or less. The
district went into mourning on the day
Eugenia “Tryphena” Doughty’s husband
was buried. Factories, offices and schools
were closed, and the road between Grimsby
and Waltham was crowded with citizens who
had got the day off. Among the messages
from Parliamentary personages to the widow
was one from Lloyd George. He said: “In
spite of acute political differences your hus-
band and I have always preserved the most
friendly personal relationship.”
From “Rosna,” in London: —
Dr. Mary Booth is packing up her best hat and
her pet bacteria for the return trip to Australia.
She has been attending the Conference on Infant
Mortality, and looking up the private history of Mr.
and Mrs. Microbe and family.
Kingsley Doubleday, young brother of fiddler Leila,
threatens to develop into a black-and-white artist
of some tonnage. Some years ago the youngster
won a scholarship at the famous Viennese Art School,
and he is still at work there. At Leila’s concert in
the Bechstein Hall on May 4, his handiwork was dis-
played in the programme design, which was of an
original and distinctly-futurist character. Fiddler
Leila and her mother are now in London for good,
seeking engagements, and finding them.
Winifred Purnell has also given another concert
at the Bechstein Hall and used up the critics’ best
adjectives. Like Leila, she has an uncommon stage
presence as well as executive ability.
At Melbourne’s toniest —or about the
toniest —women’s club the members practise
equality of the sexes, seemingly, lay being
slow to cash up. Plence a notice is posted
of a new by-law, instructing the secretary to
send along all outstanding dockets to ladies
who have “forgotten to pay” them, and to
charge the delinquents an extra 3d. on each
debt. The threepenny fine should be
effective.
A thrum to Man is but a thrum,
A fraction of his pelf;
To Woman ’tis a mighty sum
When taken from herself —
as the poet didn’t say.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The first of the Heinicke orchestral concerts oc-
curred on Saturday at the Exhibition Building. It
was a distinct success —a delicate blending, as regards
the audience, of a star Wagner performance at Bay-
reuth and Cup Day at Goodwood. Vice-regality was
there with Attorney-General Homburg (who is presi-
dent of the orchestra) and his wife, the C., H. Angases
and Mrs. R. D. Ryder. Heinicke wielded the baton;
Mrs. Delmar Hall. Eugene Alderman, Miss Sylvia
Whitington and Harold Parsons performed; and a
youthful baritone, Jack Fischer, also ran very credit-
ably.
On Saturday the Hunting season opened with tea
at the Kennels. It doesn’t sound appetising, but
these hunting enthusiasts are a hardy race. The
beverage was provided by the master, Mr. E. M.
Luxmoore, and among his guests were his father and
two sisters, the W. Popes, the Leonard Bakewells,
the Cecil Brays, the Waterhouses, the W. K. Bake-
wells (who have taken a house in Unley Park), and
most ■of the hunting fraternity. The races at Vic-
toria Park kept a number of people away, and Golf
was mentioned bitterly as an enemy of the sport.
Another resolute foe is known as Blue Funk, but
his dreadful name is rarely heard in polite circles.
Yallum station, near Penola, in the south-east,
part of the estate of the late John Riddoch, has been
sold ; the block that includes the homestead was pur-
chased by a couple of Millicent men, Messrs. Brand-
wood and Clifford. It is one of the best-known places
in the south-east. Its late owner and his brother
George, of Koorine, knew Adam Lindsay Gordon.
The estate of the late Mr. William Barker, of Bal-
dina station, near the Burra, has been sworn at
£147,000, all of which goes to his family. Dr. A.
E. Wigg left £32.000 ; it is to be held in
trust for his widow in her lifetime, and afterwards
for his two daughters.
The widow of the late Speaker Holder, of the
House of Representatives, returned on Saturday after
eight months spent toiling for temperance, partly in
the U.S. and partly in the U.IC. Alcohol has got
to such a pitch that it trembles when it hears her
name, she being one of the most substantial pillars
of the W.C.T.U.
The Galways, with Miss D'Erlanger, Miss Macaulay
and an aide or two, were at Victoria Park on Satur-
day for the opening day of the A.R.C.’s Birthday
meeting. So the festivity was as respectable as it
was loyal. And yet all was not complete harmony,
such is the perversity of human nature. Thus, in
the Parkside Stakes the judge and the crowd differed
as to the winner, and the remarks of some of the
objectors were of a nature to make G. B. Shaw him-
self blush. There were a couple of pleasing dividends
£29 for Bruri in the Hurdles and £l7 odd for
Friar Perfect in the big race of the day.
The annual meeting of the S.P.C.A. occurred on
Tuesday morning. The Governor was in the chair,
and Chief Secretary Bice, editor Sowden (of the
Register), Professor Darnley Naylor and the übi-
quitous Henry Howard all spoke. Lady Galway and
Miss D’Erlanger were there, and many others. The
report of the hon. sec., Mrs. O’Leary, showed that
there are about 1800 different ways of ill-treating
horses alone, exclusive of the 28,000 devices for
causing needless agony to dogs and cats. Paris
Nesbit reintroduced his views on the wicked cruelty
of coursing, but his amendment expressing “regret”
that the committee had not squashed that sport was
negatived. Incidentally, the funds of the society are
running low. For all that, it remains the livest in-
stitution of its kind in Australia and a shining
beacon for the other States, more especially N. S.
Wales.
The Inter-University sports at the University Oval
on Wednesday resulted in a win for the local students.
Government House, the doggedly tireless, turned up
(as it also did at the Adelaide University sports on
Friday), and Lady Galway handed out the trophies
to Pellew, Pender and the other champions.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR OF
QUEENSLAND.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
—telling of the “Duncliffe” Hat;
a fifty=shilling English=made
Suit, and particularly, the
special Guinea Footwear.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS EXCELLENCY THE
GOVERNOR OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
The
“DUNCLIFFE”
weighs but an
ounce or two —
An authentic hat style, quite free from any
objectionable exaggeration.
It is popular because of the distinction it
carries without undue obtrusiveness.
The shape is conformable . . .
The “Duncliffe” may be worn
any way to suit your whim.
The brim is unbound.
SHADES
Elephant Grey, Dark Green &Fawn.
PLEASE MENTION
YOUR HAT SIZE.
M
10/6.
BOXING and POSTAGE 1/- extra.
Fill in anil post the approval
form below
M
Read y=f o r=Se r v ipe,
British=built
Sac Suits
501-
POST FREE IF CASH WITH ORDER.
There is never any question about the fit of the ready-for-service SUITS at
Pike Brothers Limited.
They are made to every conceivable size ; graded exactly and precisely to fit YOU ; no
matter whether your figure is normal, or whether you are short and stout or
tall and thin.
THIS IS POSITIVELY GUARANTEED.
A low price for such satisfaction ; but we have made it possible without sacrificing
anything, either in the making, material or trimmings.
SERGE, TWEED OR FLANNEL. THREE-GARMENT SUITS.
The COAT has well-fitting, rounded shoulders, with the approved vent in the back,
The lapels fasten to a medium opening, secured by three buttons. Five pockets.
The VEST is not too high or too low ; has a useful chain hole and four pockets.
The TROUSERS are well cut—not exaggerated, but with just enough room to be
comfortable. Permanent turn-up at the bottom if you wish. Three belt loops
if you don’t wear braces.
We have aimed to give the best value possible. We believe
we have succeeded.
Fill in and post the approval form below.
PLEASE GIVE YOUR
HEIGHT, CHEST AND
WAIST MEASURES.
a Black Willow Calf
BOOT
for men.
21-
(POST FREE IF CASH WITH ORDER).
The daily call upon our stocks for this particular
model seems to prove its popularity and good
value.
’Tis calf=lined throughout; has
a stout, wear=proof sole and
Derby uppers.
The welts are rope=stitched for
further security.
It preserves Nature’s lines in=
side without distorting Fashion’s lines outside.
Accommodates your foot without pinching anywhere
ITS SERVICE IS GUARANTEED.
Fill in and post the approval form below.
m
PLEASE STATE YOUR BOOT
SIZE OR PLACE THE
STOCKINGED FOOT ON WHITE
PAPER AND OUTLINE WITH
LEAD PENCIL.
PIKE BROTHERS
THIS IS THE
APPROVAL
FORM—*'
Toowoomba
LIMITED
BRISBANE
Townsville.
v
<M s “- ■V •: ■■;« * ■■•; ■
„ \V. 1)0 •••..••..■■ >'V.


£2%
I For
Windows
Cleaning
windows is
the easy
task with
Bon Ami.
M
M
g. For
Painted
Wood
work
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint—
removes the
dirt only
Bon Am i
&
tasrit ScwlchtdYeti
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
SbiA iamdvdXat
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
[I
“.-Esculapius”: In ancient Greece they used to
erect temples over natural spring’s and give to each
a titular diety. We moderns are no less appreciative
of the healthful virtues of a mineral water- —only our
methods differ somewhat. For instance, up at the
famous Helidon Spring, the water is secured just as
it bubbles up from the earth, and hermetically sealed
until the process of aeration and bottling is com-
plete. You don’t need a Greek fineness of palate to
appreciate the cool charm of Helidon Spa—it has
the same delicious refreshingness to Billjim as to the
Earl of Ilopetoun. As a blender with wines and
spirits, too, it gives just that added snap and
sparkle that counts so much in the sum of pleasant-
ness. You’ll be wise to always make it a practice to
“Figaro”: Read a par. here the other week about
Nature planting the giant stinging nettle in N.Q
but close beside it the tree whose leaves serve as an
antidote to its sting. This provision of Nature js
in no way unique, for, just as she curses us with
indigestion so she blesses us with Helidon Spa
After dining out you’ll have no next morning head-
ache if you take a bottle of “Helidon” before turning
in—this delicious mineral water is Nature’s gift to
those who have dined not wisely but too well. A single
glass will dissolve the undigested food and at the
same time ensure a perfect night’s rest. Quite apart
from its health aspect, “Helidon” greatly enhances
the flavor of wines and spirits—so truly the way of
wisdom is always to
SPLIT IT WITH
HEUDON.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“I THINK I HAVE A CLUE.”
“F.H.R.”: Norman Lindsay’s picture of
a milking contest, a 3 shown in a recent Bulletin,
reminds me of my first attempt at bail building.
The missus and I built a lovely bail, and then I got
the bucket, coaxed Strawberry in, and sat down to
milk her on the near side. The goddess resented
this insult so much that she chased us out of the
yard and wrecked the show. If N.L. draws any
more pictures of champion milkers sitting on the
wrong side of a cow', which is identical with the
near side of a horse, I’ll have him barred from
appearing in the Abo. pages for six months.
‘Silas Snell” : He was a small, thin, grev-
jaced, tired-looking' man dressed in an exhausted
black suit and a weary black belltopper. He was
peering about the dusky interior of Melbourne Town
Hall when first met with: “I wish to see the Lord
Mayor,” he said, “or failing that the City Council
or the Town Clerk. I wish to ask if I may be per-
mitted to lean on your Town Hall.” An official
told him ho could lean on the Town Hall till Arma-
geddon. He was noticed leaning on the Collins-
street corner of the Town Hall throughout the rest
of the afternoon. At six o’clock a policeman
spoke to him. “It is all right,” he answered. “T
have received permission. 1 am quite within my
rights in leaning on the Town Hall. The fact is
t have an appointment to keep, and the Lord Mayor
lias given me permission to lean on the Town Hall.
1 shall i)o very careful with it.” At midnight
another policeman spoke to the small, pale object
m black leaning on the Town Hall. “[ have an
appointment,” explained the leaner, “an appoint-
ment with John Arthur Anderson. Perhaps vou
know him. He is to meet me on the Town Hall
corner.” “When?” asked ihe John. “I really
don’t know when, but he is certain to come, and I
have permission to lean on the Town Hall.” “What’s
this man like you’re waitin’ for?” asked the cop.
The weary fragment seemed a little confused.
Well, he said, “to tin' best of my recollection
he is not a large man —not at all a large
man and lie is very tired. He will be
dressed in black. 1 shall know him immediately.
Meanwhile you will permit me to lean upon your
Town Hall.” The John passed on, but finding the
limp citizen still leaning on the Town Hall at three
in the morning he took him in charge. At the
lockup the stunted trifle explained that he had an
appointment with John Arthur Anderson. “You
must not detain me,” he said. “Something dreadful
might happen if I were absent when John Arthur
Anderson calls for me, and I have the kind permis-
sion of the City Council to lean on your Town Hall.”
Next day the ease was investigated, and the re-
lations of the small, pale man in black were dis-
covered. They explained that the visionary was
John Arthur Anderson, and pointed out that he
was quite all right save for this curious habit cf
making important appointments with himself, and
then failing to turn up. Once he spent two whole
days and one night waiting for himself behind the
Burks and Wills monument. The only way his
relatives can induce John to move is by telling him
they have just seen himself turning the next cor-
ner. Ihe little pale man in black waiting on corners
for John Arthur Anderson is Melbourne’s latest
novelty in cranks.
* * * *
“Lizard”: Having listened to “Leo Lear”
fB. 21 /5/’l4) imploring “Tekelo” not to make • a
public display of his ignorance by referring to Aus-
tralia’s crocodile as an alligator, I now call “L.L.”
up to have his own knuckles caned. In what amazing
book of zoology did he learn that a crocodile was a
saurian? The samidee are the lizards, with which
the crocodile has nothing l in common, barring a
superficial resemblance of form. Anyhow,' that’s the
usual way of it, although I’ll admit I don’t know
the crocs, that haunt the foreshores of Circular Quay.
“Saccharose”: R e “Cleveland's” yelp
against the Northern climate (B. 7/5/’l4). I am
afraid this as a ease of being “too long
in the South.” The expression “too
long, in the North” is one in common
use in N.Q., and is equivalent to sav-
ing the person referred to is “ratty.”
It is said, generally by people like
“Cleveland,” that if a man'does 20
years on end around Cairns, Cook-
town, or other away-up coastal towns,
he is “too long in the North.” I
have met quite a number of these oil
Northern cranks, packers, “sugar-
miners, fossickers, etc., but never did
I meet one who ran his country down,
or said “white men cannot work in
the North '; they invariably welcome
the stranger with a smile, and indi-
cate the nearest bar with an inviting
wag of the whisker. They are good
fellows, and never knowm to take a
pen in hand, like “Cleveland,” and
write from hearsay about the Darling
Downs, for example. Surely no man
who has ever been there could write
of Atherton, or any part of rhe
Northern Tableland, with its altitude
of from 2000 to 3000 feet, as owning
an “enervating climate.” Nor could
anyone who knows the people— except
the few old Chow-worshippers— refer
to them as a “spineless lot.” As a
matter of hard fact, the Atherton cli-
mate is one of the healthiest in Aus-
tralia, and the settlers, with the
exception mentioned, are anything but
a spineless lot, and, in spite of bad
roads and the Tory Government, are
transforming a wilderness into smiling homes by the
hundred.
“Gouger”: Got a mild thrill t’other day,
while camped on the Walsh river, near Mt. Carbine
(Q.). The thriller was the complete skin, even to
hair and fingernails attached, of a defunct black
boy. His gin was carrying the souvenir from place
to place in her dilly bag, though under what suner-
stition she would “no yabber.” I offered the lady
three sticks of tobacco for her mascot, but she was
rot having any. In fact, so suspicious did she
become of mv benevolent intentions that she hastily
stuffed the hide into the dillv bag, grabbed up the
handful of hubby’s teeth, and lit out for the dim
and distant horizon.
Round One”: What sort of an historian
vs “J. 0.8. (B. 14/5/’l4), when he states that there
is no evidence to show that prickly pear came here
with the first fleet? Has he read “A Voyage to
N.5.W.,” by Phillip, 1790? How is this for evi-
dence: “Rio de Janeiro, Aug. 6-7th, 1787: And all
such seeds and plants were procured as were thought
likely to flourish on the coast of N.S.W., particularly
coffee, indigo, cotton and the cochineal fig Cactus
cochinilifer of Linnreus.” Again on p. 109: “All
the plants and fruit trees brought from Brazil and
the. Cape which were not damaged on the passage
thrive exceedingly.” I now apply for costs against
J. 0.8. and the cancellation of his license to run
an information bureau.
THE GAMBLING EVIL.
VOICE IN THE DISTANCE: “Sausages one!”
VETERAN SPORT: “Eh—what! Who's second?”
The Camp Fire Philosophy of “Hendry” :
I tell you what it is, this bush-whacking is no
good. A man never gets ahead of it. He goes to
work all right at first, and reckons he’ll save up and
have a trip. But after awhile the monotony rots
his nerves, and he gets an advance from the boss.
'■ hen he thinks he has business in town, or he tries
3 think he has business ; anyhow, he goes in and
makes a pigsty of himselh —not because he's fond of
grog, or likes the town, but. because he hates
the bush. And just when he’s feeling ashamed of
himself some of the mates drop into town, and
then he can't go away and leave them straight off,
or they’d roust and want to know what sort of men
he took them for. So he borrows a quid or two at
the store or pub and knocks round some more.
The bush is no good. It doesn’t matter whether
it’s sleepergetting, or ringbarking, or fencing, or
anything else you’re at. You have to play a lone
hand, or, at most, have one mate. By-and-bye you
get to hate your mate, and he gets to hate you,
although you may be two decent blokes in different
circumstances. It’s not the fault of either of you;
it’s the Bush that is to blame. It’s all right for pic-
nics, but it is Hell to have to live in it.
There is no poetry in the bush for the bush-
whacker. When you’re going hell-for-leather all the
hours of daylight, you don’t worry about the poeti-
cal side of Nature. And the laughter round the camp
Are is always raised at the expense of a fellow
mortal, or else at some ribald joke of the camp
wit. The mob only talk about their work, and never
the truth about it. I belong to a sleeper-getter’s
camp, and they chop wood, think wood, and they’d
eat it if they thought it would help them to earn
more money. If one of the boys arrives from town
with a cargo they sit up and drink his grog, and
they reckon that this is the way they enjoy a drink.
They know that it’s a lie, for they would sooner have
it leaning up against a bar talking to a fuzzy-headed
barmaid, or explaining to an interested barman how
they live in the bush and what great times they
have when a cargo of grog arrives, while the barman
reckons he’s going to chuck his job and come out
billeting for them.
Also, they drive the contractor mad. Every time
they see him they “sub” him, and he knows every
sub means a longer stoppage, and if he doesn’t
come to light they’ll go and cut for some other man.
So he springs a quid. At last they head for the
jungle with the usual cargo for recovery, but it is
never utilised in that way, for as soon as they strike
the camp the boys mop it up, and reckon' that a
drink like this does them good, when they know it
doesn’t.
That's how we go on in the Bush. Damn the Bush!
'T.\ .T.”: As a cocky of honorable in-
tentions I’m bound to say a good word for the
starling and the work he and his family have done
hereabouts (lvooweerup, Vic.) this year in checking
the spread of the potato-moth. Big mobs of these
birds hover over the spud top 3, gobbling up grub
and fly wholesale. But I have one grudge against
the starling, and that is on account of his trick of
usurping the nests of good Australian birds, chucking
out their eggs, ana laying his (or, rather, her) own
therein. The handsome rosella parrot is a great
sufferer in this respect. The parrot is cordially dis-
liked in eockydom ; but lie is such a handsome little
Australian that personally I never begrudge him the
bit of wheat he picks up in my neighbors’ paddocks.
I don’t grow wheat myself.
“San : I observe that the scuffle with the
ant has broken out again, and tile signals for help
to down the enemy are out along the Castlereagh and
so on. Here’s me to the rescue with bisulphide of
carbon. Get sixpennorth at the chemist’s and keep
it away from the candle when you go out at night
to the nest. (If the ants of the nest are night
workers, go in the daytime, when they have turned
in.) Making a long arm, as the curate does at
the Sunday-school picnic when he reaches for the
sandwiches, pour a little of the solution down each
hole. Wait a minute or two for the fumes to travel
through the galleries; then drop a lighted match
into a hole. The ensuing explosion will conclude the
entertainment—particularly for the ants. One dose
is sufficient as a rule. Another good plan is to mix
arsenic with dripping or treacle, according to the
kind of ant you are catering for. Put the mess on
the nest and cover with a bit of netting, unless you
«ant to kill the other live stock on the property.
The ants, being cannibals, will eat their poisoned
relations, and the chain of destruction goes on till
the last ant has eaten his grandmother and fallen
dead on her pile of bones. White ants can be de-
stroyed in the same way.
Machete : Re that “wall of water” dis-
cussion in which “Pick,” “Leo Lear” and others
have taken part. The “wall” in question is a daily
spectacle on many big rivers with a strong tidal
w u • Th , e F ! y River in Pa P ua > the Severn and the
Wash in England are eases in point. The “bore”
as it is called, is caused by the advancing tide crawl-
r r * h f ! CUrrent 0n the V] i' varies from
sft. to 10ft in height, with a “face” that is, for
ail practical purposes, perpendicular. As for rivers
coming down- in this fashion, writer abode for some
years on the banks of Tamata Creek, in N.E. Papua
which has its head in the foothills of 14,000 ft. Mt
Albert Edward, only 40 miles away. Whenever a big
S thunderstorm broke on that tremendous
watershed the creek came down, not in one but a
succession of walls, according to the size ’of the
trouble up above.
(Continued on pane 24. )
SPAWLIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve heard about the hobs o’ Hell
As something pretty hard,
And shanty-keepers’ hearts I've known
I hat ne’er were pity-searr’d ;
But I put first mong all the things
That s hard to split or crack
This red-grey granite that we belt
Up here at Barren Jack.
It s got no joints, it’s got no “grain,”
No easy bustin’ way—
You swing your fourteen-pounder round
And slog away all day.
Of course, a tradesman learns his game,
And as the days go round
You gather little wrinkles till
The easiest way is found.
Man-like, you take a proper pride
In bein’ sound and fit,
For you need strength as well as will
To do your “little bit.”
It. ain’t the pigeon-chested bloke,
It ain’t the human weed
Can stand this tjame —I’ve seen some try ;
Lord help ’em in their need!
Like steel on steel the hammers ring,
The mountains echo back ;
One side Black Andy takes it up,
The other, Barren Jack.
With half a hundred in full swing,
Lord ! but the music’s grand ! . ;
It stirs you up and makes you feel
Like marehin’ with a band.
I’ve heard the “Anvil Chorus,” and
I rise up now to ask
Where is the music-writin’ bloke
To take on this ’ere task ?
It s somethin' new and mighty big,
And for a genius calls,
To bring its every meanin’ out—
The Chorus of the Spawls!
These rocks we’re beltin’ into bits
Upon the quarry floor
Are older than the race of man
Ten millions years or more!
But ’tisn’t for the love to smash,
And tear things down we toil—-
We’re patchin’ up a mighty job
Old Nature seems to spoil.
So swing the fourteen-pounder round,
Make hard and true the blow—
For every spawl that’s in the wall
A blade of glass will grow!
N.S.W.
ULOOLA.


me R ALOPHONE
TALKING MACHINE.
BEAUTIFUL SOUND
Ivalophone Cabinet in Highly-
Polished Walnut,
Double-spring Motor,
Speed Indicator,
Nickel-plated Turntable,
Recess for Used Needles, etc.
Height: 3ft. lOin.
Depth: 2ft.
Width: Ift. lOin.
Model “Sylvia,” No. 303.
High-grade cabinet Ivalophone. Specially designed, con-
cealed horn; excellent spring motor; plays two
records at one winding; nickelplated turntable;
Maestoso sound box. There is a great demand for
this machine. Price £B/10/-
The Cabinet Kalophone is absolutely unsurpassed in every respect.
If Every detail in this talking machine is as perfect as modern
science and art can make it. ft , v
«[ The motor is specially constructed to ensure smooth running,
easy regulation and thorough reliability. It is simple in design
and of much strength. Large, double spring, with the latest
devices for maintaining uniformity of speed. lifted with
correct speed indicator.
If The tone-arm and sound-box are the latest improvements known
to the science of sound reproduction.
«f The sound-box is made on special acoustic principles, and gives
the most natural reproduction ever attained. Improved mica
diaphragm.
The taper tone-arm is made so as to afford the greatest magnifica-
tion of the recorded sound waves, and at the same time to exclude
foreign sounds.
Tf The concealed (wooden) horn is scientifically constructed from
choice old seasoned wood. This gives a mellowness to a repro-
duction on this machine that is unobtainable on others.
*[ The cabinet work is of a high order, of figured walnut, polished
so as to bring out the natural beauty of the wood. Two doors
lead to sound chamber, and two doors lead to a compartment for
holding records. Turntable and fittings throughout are nickel-
plated.
«[ The Cabinet Kalophone is an ornament to any drawing-room.
«[ We have Kalophones from £3 3s. upwards. Prices of Cabinet
Kalopbones: £3O, £25, £l6 165., £8 10s., £4 10s.
Kalopbones play any disc records, so that the Owner of a Kalo-
phone has all the music of the world at his command.
•f Motor runs full speed for one hour, one winding.
Write for our Catalogue, “ Every-
thing Musical.” No matter what
musical goods you require we can
supply you*
A Copious Stock of the Latest Records
as per Special Catalogue.
SEND us a deposit with
order and we will
despatch any machine
you may prefer as above. If
not satisfied within 14 days as
to the merits claimed for the
Kalophone, we will return
your money in full. But you
will find the instrument a
never-ending pleasure and in-
struction. Any unskilled per-
son can handle it with ease.
Kalophone Cabinet in Highly-
Polished Walnut,
Double-spring Motor,
Speed Indicator,
Nickel-plated Turntable,
Recess for Used Needles, etc.
Height: 3ft. lOin.
Depth: 2ft.
Width: Ift. lOin.
Model “Ganz,” No. 306.
This unrivalled, hornless talking machine meets with
great popular favor. Splendid double-spring motor,
plays three records at one winding. Expressivo
sound box; speed indicator; 12-incli turntable;
special Kalophone taper arm. As perfect as a talk-
ing machine can be made. Trice, £l2/12/-
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms: 136a=136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY, opposite Mark Foy’s.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
' Wagga
Li-s more
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vi


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. I.adies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature. Martin. Chemist. Southampton.*
“A Journalist and Two Bears,” by James Edmond.
I lie biggest shilling book ever published in A us-
tialia—and the best reading. All booksellers, One
Shilling, or direct from the publishers, The Platypus
Press, 117 Bathurst Street, S.vdnev, for 13 pennv
stamps.*
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE'S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE." Send for Cata-
logue, Sole agent?: 393 Onrge Street
Sydney.
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
need “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
[Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish liver
and bowels.
Mother! Your child isn't naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy,” with
cold, throat sore: when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natur-
ally, or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, re-
member, a gentle liver and bowel cleansing
should always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals “California Syrup of Figs”
for children’s ills; give a teaspoonful, and
in a few hours ail the waste matter, sour bile
and fermenting food clogged in the bowels
pass out of the system, and you have a
healthy and playful child again. All chil-
dren love this harmless, delicious “fruit laxa-
tive,” and it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” Directions for babies,
children of all ages and grown-ups are plainly
on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “California Syrup of Figs,” then
look and see that it is made by the “Cali-
fornia Fig Syrup Company.” Counterfeits
arc being sold here. Refuse substitutes.
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup
of Figs,” 1/1A ami 1/9 per bottle.
PHILLIPS ORMONDE & CO.. Consult-
ing Engineers, Patent and Trade Mark
Attorneys, 17 Queen Street (Lombard
Buildings), Melbourne. Established 1888.
BRAND
STUHR.
m:
Wi
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
C. F. STUHR St CO.. Hamburg.
Indents through European Exporters only.
“Iclmbod”: Till a few years ago the Port
Darwin residents used to enjoy going out at sundown
towards the Junction to see the “play-about” spear
fights between different Northern Territory tribes.
But a magnificent Excellency, and even’ more magnifi-
cent Government officials, have shorn these shows of
their glory. We rode out one afternoon on horseback
to watch a “play-about” between Larrakeeahs and
Daly River blacks. The lubras showed unusual ex-
citement, and ran around yelling, their piccaninnies
slung on their naked backs. Each lubra was trying
to excite her lord to fighting point, and never did 1
hear such a Babel of discordant voices. The native
policeman warned us to keep a good look-out, as
there was going to be trouble. That was quite evi-
dent, but we could not learn the cause just then.
The lubras grew more and more wild, and fairly
danced and squirmed as they yelled at their masters,
who stood, 20 in a row, facing their 20 opponents.
The men’s physique was superb ; as they stood there
with their split bamboo spears fixed in their woom-
eras, alert and naked save for a fringe of shells, or
beads, or grass, round the loins, they looked like
magnificent Roman athletes in bronze. The warriors’
muscles were tense, as they stood rigid, waiting for
the aged warriors’ whoop-signal. The Larrakeeahs
faced the low sun in the west; and the grease which
they had rubbed on their bare bodies, before decorat-
ing them with red and white ochre and bird down,
made them gleam like burnished bronze. All sorts of head-
dresses were seen, no two being alike, though all
had some human teeth dangling across the forehead.
The ancient, toothless warriors yelled their final in-
junctions. Then came their long, weird whoop, rising
to a piercing shriek, and the 40 spears whizzed
fiercely as they left their woomeras almost simultane-
ously. Then we saw an astounding sight. Larra-
keeah Charlie's body was fairly bristling with the
pointed bamboo spears. From head to foot he was
gory. The other Larrakeeah men looked at each
other in amazement. Not another of their men was
touched ! Quick as a flash all guessed what had hap-
pened—each of the 20 Daly River men, instead of
aiming at his vis-a-vis, was making Charlie his tar-
get. This went on for six minutes, though it seemed
much longer, while the lubras danced and yelled
and egged on their men, and the old wizened cronies
held back Charlie’s girl, who tried to get to him.
Charlie soon became dazed and weak from loss of
blood, and the native policeman yelled in my ear,
“You get ’way quick fellow, missie! Plenty blood
run about. Spears all about!” And, true enough,
in the scrimmage the spears did not follow the rule
of due east and west, but were being hurled in all
directions, as Charlie changed his position in self-
defence. Our horses were growing wild with fear, so
we galloped towards the Two-and-a-Half-Mile, spears
whizzing unpleasantly close to our cars. We learnt
that after acting as target for about seven minutes
Larrakeeah Charlie sank exhausted into his lubra's
arms, and was hustled away to the hospital. We also
learnt the reason of it all. At the last “play-about”
fight between these two tribes, Larrakeeah Charlie
had hit his particular opponent with a spear ; which
he had poisoned by leaving it for some days sticking
in a mangrove root. His victim lay for five weeks in
the hospital at death’s door-. The Daly River men
quietly waited for their revenge. As soon as Charlie
was able to leave the hospital, they arranged to
challenge the Larrakeeahs to another “play-about”
spear fight, and each of the 20 Daly River men was
to hurl his spear, not on his opposite man, but on
Charlie. After spending three weeks in the hospital
Charlie found himself “disqualified” from ever again
taking part in a “play-about,” and he and his two
lubras and their piccaninnies had to leave their camp
on Lameroo Beach, and “go back bush,” as they could
get no jobs in Port Darwin while the strict boycott
lasted.
A NATURAL DEATH.
“I ’ear poor old Frowsey's dead.”
“ Yep.”
“ Wot d' ’e die ov ?”
“Domain poisonin'.”
There seem to have been some badly dis-
appointed niggers in Papua a while ago. According
to a yarn told to a recruiter by some, of the “boys”
of the district where Werner, the explorer, was
killed and eaten a year or so back, they struggled
with the dead man’s boots for the best part of a
week. Clothes of a sort they knew, but boots they
had never met before, and they put them down as
part of Werner, and therefore good eating. They
boiled them for an hour or two and found them
tough ; and they weren’t much improved when they
had been left simmering in the pot for a day. After
three days of it the nigs, managed to make some sr.'t
of a stew of the uppers; but the soles beat them,
and they produced some scraps of boiled leather,
iron-shod, as a guarantee of good faith and bad
disappointment.
“Machete’ : The bright young man from
a Sydney paper who interviewed two American alligators
imported for the local Zoo, the other day, rather over-
did his piece, lie made the animals “blink lazily” at
least half a dozen times in half a col. Now, the
gator, like all his reptile contemporaries, has no
eyelids, and his stare has therefore the unwinking
effrontery of an alderman with a past.
“H.F.W.”: In the Mitchell Library (Syd-
ney) there is a book by W. Hull dealing with the
early aboriginals of Australia, in which the writer
emphasises the fact that the natives of Moreton Bay
had a very substantial dread of an intangible bloke
they called “Coen,” who appears to have been a
very bad sort of debil-debil. Commenting on this
curse of Moses the Rev. Schmidt makes the following
note: “They (the Moreton Bay aboriginals) are the
lowest beings in the whole scale of the human race
. . . .They have no understanding, or, at least, it is
slumbering so deeply that nothing but Divine power
will awaken it.” Which is a dashed poor compli-
ment to the Holman-Griffith tribe. They haven’t
even the other tribe's understanding which taught it
to shun Coen, with or without the h.
DISTRESSING SYMPTOMS.
JONES ( who has been left in charge of the infant): “Great Scott! There must be some-
thing the matter with the kid — it's not crying.”
“K.N.” : According to a Bulletin writer
(21/5/’l4) “every harbor which is simply the mouth
of a big river silts up.” The phrase is too general.
The silting-up process depends on the river. Port
Jackson is compared with such awful examples as
Brisbane and Newcastle. But what of Hobart? Port
Jackson, we are asked to believe, is a good harbor
because it has no river worth mentioning to silt it
up. Yet, as a matter of fact, it does silt up ; and
the wail of the dredge is to be heard continually.
Hobart, on the other band, should be very bad ; it is
not only simply the mouth of a big—very big-
river, but it has another big river discharging just
across and into its southern entrance. Yet the
dredge’s work in Hobart is confined to a little scrap-
ing round the wharves and some reclamations near
the railway station. And Hobart harbor is recognised
by those that go in ships as the finest—easily—in
the world. The writer aforementioned has omitted to
note the effects of scour. Sydney has no scour ; and
all the erosion-products and filth from the city and
suburbs lie where they sink. Hobart, on the other
hand, has so great a scour, with its river current,
that it has even been found possible to discharge
crude sewage at a considerable depth into the harbor,
and it never appears again. The reason is the Der-
went is a real river, and not a sluggish apology for
one such as the Hunter and the Brisbane are.
“Ding Bat”: We had no time to go out
shooting when doing a road job in the King Country
(M.L.), and so had to look for other ways of secur-
ing the game. One of the gang used to soak some dried
peas until they were plump and soft, and then, tak-
ing each in turn, would carefully push a piece of
horsehair through the pulp and snip it off about
quarter of an inch on each side. Departing with
about half a dozen of these he would drop them
along the track on the way to work. Coming home,
he would pick up the spoil wherever a pea had been
dropped. It worked like this. The pheasant (they
were generally pheasants) would grab the pea and
endeavor to swallow it, but the horsehair kept it
from going past the swallow or front coming up
again. The bird, in desperation, scratched and
fought until its head was almost knocked to pieces.
Irt justice to my sense of kindness to animals, I
must assert that I put a stop to the barbarous
practice.
“Nulla”: The zinnia, the multi-colored
dahlia-like flower which is still popular in suburban
gardens, has now got so far out of bounds in some
country parts of N. S. Wales (hat it has been
solemnly proclaimed a Curse. By the way, the
bright blue curse of Patterson started as an orna-
mental and warmly cherished vegetable. It made
its first appearance at Kiverina as a pot plant on a
lady’s window-ledge. It has been responsible for the
handling of many pots since then.
“The Maorilander” : “Pick’s” transactions
with brer fox must be limited to his acquaintance
with the hunting prints in the threepenny bar of the
corner pub, if he wants us to believe that foxes
regard with distaste anything not provided by their
own murder. The experience of myself and 72,001
other men in the Western District and the Lands
Beyond is that your acclimatised fox will gorge him-
self to the bowsprit with any old thing obtainable,
from gohanna to dead missionary. His favorite
stomach furniture is green lamb, but he has a wide
range. A hungry fox is always willing to risk a mixup
with a loose dog to get outside a yard or two of
waste sheep from the killing-pen. As to being
unapproachable with poison, “Pick” needn’t expect
to be able to drop baits on his tail, but any carefully-
prepared cyanide or strychnine bait will turn his
feet up. Furthermore, if “Pick” wants a recipe for
the demise of a fox I can recommend the following
dope: Hitch some newly-butchered sheep trimmings
to the axle of a sulky, and drag a trail round your
fox-pads for an hour, dropping pieces of cyanided
caul-fat occasionally. I’ll give “Pick” Is. 4d. a
head for evei'y fox he doesn’t get next morning.
One Johnson, on Berrara, got nine fox pelts from
12 baits with this dope.
“Lagani-Namo”: The Solomons are the
islands of Sudden Death. During 1900 all the
warriors of New Georgia set out one night to take
another village by surprise. When they got there
the inhabitants were not at home, but they were
lucky enough to bump into a string of 20 women
and children returning from a fishing trip. These
were promptly dealt with. Some were eaten on the
spot. The balance, with spears so tied to them
that the holder could jab it into their spinal cord
at will, were prodded along toward New Georgia
and slaughter. But a surprise was sprung on the
raiders when they reached home, for during their
absence their everlasting enemies from Sibo had
swooped along aial massacred every living thing that
had remained on the premises. The butchered pigs had
people were thrown indiscriminately into canoes and
taken to Sibo, where it was found that there was
more meat than was required for home consumption.
So the butchers packed a lot of it back into canoes
and hawked it for sale to other villages along the
coast. I don't know the prices charged, but they
were below those ruling in Sydney just now for
chops and steak.
“Dux”: H-enare and I went down to Kai
Iwi l>eacli the other day to see the stranded whale,
and while yet afar off the' stench smote us with a
mighty smite. Henare collected his nose and
solemnly remarked: “Phew ! Listen !”
ANYTHING TO OBLIGE.
GENT.: “I can’t give you anything. Charity
begins at home.”
CADGER : “I 'm willin' ter go ’ome wid yer,
Mister. ”
THE WAILING LEGION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Although there was the cry for the abolition of the
Lpper House, the candidates for appointment to the
Chamber were legion. Mr. Holman realised that to
appoint nine or 10 members would leave 500 dis
appointed candidates thirsting for his blood.
—C. G. Wade.
“An M.L.C.
I soon will be,"
Says Mr. William Bloquc.
He filled the chair.
At one place where
John Blithers, M.P., spoke;
And Blithers sure will see him through ;
It is the least that he can do.
But Peter Bent,
As President
Of that great union, the
Tin Cleaners’ Ass.,
Bets boasting pass;
No braggart vain is he.
Compared with his Bloque's chance is dim;
Bent, M.L.C.—it’s fixqd for him !
The butcher, he,
To Smith, M.P.,
Links sees his place quite plain ;
But not a man •
ts surer than
John Alexander Javne,
With confidence he looks ahead.
(He serves a Minister with bread!)
Torn, Hick and James,
Live hundred names
Their owners plainly see,
With swelling pride,
Set down beside
The letters “M.L.C.”
They only want, these henchmen stout,
To knock the Upper Chamber out 1
The ardent zeal
These patriots feel
Is not to make the laws;
Each one aspires
To meet desires
Framed by their Mighty Cause,!
They are not moved by thoughts of pride ;
They merely wish to suicide!
And Holman, who
A thing or two
Knows, and has learnt of late,
Looks at the mob
Who seek the job,
And seems to hesitate;
’Tis horror to his soul to see
This gang of cut-throat M’s.L.C.
The man annoyed
By hopes destroyed
With mighty zeal can hate;
So Holman goes
Upon his toes
Like one who bears the plate.
Hell has no rage, for all its squeals,
Like that a slighted martyr feels.
N.s.w.
HAMER.


Jx&l-
mm
Jr-
' '’j
-if .. I
M
M
i-
'■ -:*■
> J-
ttICHINOI I**
' j
« msiSr;
>'4
s®**
mm
5 - • .. , - ■
n.»»§»i||
SCO ft
*** «“ !>y
.V !
#***■ A, *►**#»» ,
mm®
■ ' . <
gw ’•’■
« !
* v *" '
i
i
v/::-•
» k •»!
I s n
.
■S'
■
SI
>!? .
*{-&,.* 'pi <
■£'*&* / ,
£&&sx>3Sl'
m
?S**m
mm
-
?
■
mi
flip
/
<>*%%%*:
■/.w.y
«# ■» * * A
*4**%%'
% <&**■
s*vs
,‘Av* ♦>]
>*' j
>.*:wv
•AV.V
' : n ;
®g&; ;
Si.
11l
:
Thorne’s is a
Most Popular
Whisky
AT the Club, or any place where
AA men meet for social inter-
course, the “ Black Square ”
bottle is kept on the move, for the
quality and maturity of Thorne’s
are upheld at all times.
Men know that it is a thoroughly
reliable spirit, which is of unvarying
mellowness-—maintained for over 80
years-—and its smoothness and j
flavor leave nothing to be desired.
Thorne’s is a superlatively good
Whiskv, for it is
j 7
Old
Highland
MaU
“ Incomparable.”
IS
I.
■ !
m m
s. . A.- . ..
<*%
.
P*** 0 \ '
....
ill
’ fii
j iv ■
\? - '
' a ' ' 1 1 || 1 I j
>
■ -
m


“Y«yi
DAY
M
M
M
In “ Viyella” we have a first-class material for family use.
Its appearance is decidedly fine, its texture light and soft,
and its service enduring. It is an hygienic fabric, being of
such a porous nature as to allow free air circulation, and at
the same time preserve the body at a normal temperature.
Its softness makes it desirable to the tenderest skin ; even
baby may wear “ Viyella” with comfort.
The fact that it is unshrinkable will appeal to every
housewife, as the shrinking tendency of many otherwise
good materials is a source of constant worry in the home.
The special nature of the yarn from which “Viyella” is
made guarantees the durability of the fabric. Ideal tor
Ladies’ Blouses, Nightdresses and Undergarments ; Men’s
Sh irts and Pyjamas, and Children’s Frocks, Night-
dresses and Underclothing.
“Viyella” is stocked by leading Drapers and Storekeepers everywhere.
If you have any difficulty in getting a supply write us direct, and we will
send you the name of the nearest retailer stocking it.
I. & R. MORLEY,
56 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY : ok 250 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Yi
ft
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Shipping Clerk”: A case just decided by the
High Court should scare that nebulous person the
Custom House agent out of his boots. The case
turned on the exact value of Customs guarantees, such
as are signed blithely every day by the half-dozen.
York-street is too important to dance attendance on
the Customs, so it employs handy agents to juggle
with the entries, monkey with the invoices, pay the
duty, and generally perform the acrobatic feat known
as “passing through the Customs.” Nearly all these
agents enter into a bond up to £5OO in case anything
should occur wherebv H.M.C. are “done in.” These
bonds are looked upon as matters of form. They are
signed for various amounts on behalf of various
clients, according to the section of the Act under
which they are drawn. Sometimes agents have signed
bonds totalling thousands of pounds, and some of
them, as I know, possess assets to the value of the
pen behind their ears. Many are persons of sub-
stance, such as defendant in the case mentioned, who,
as agent of a foreign-going ship owned by foreigners,
signed a bond of £5OO. Two cases of tobacco landed
. from the., steamer . were—stolen, —without -duty-being
paid. The Customs thereupon called upon the agent
to pay £6B short, duty. That horrified party re-
ferred the Collector to (1) the owner of the ship,
(2) the shippers of the goods, (B) the consignees—all
people of tonnage with foreign names. The Collector
assumed indifference to the l ights of these ungetatablc
persons, and blandly invited the agent’s attention to
his signature on tiro bond. The case went to the
courts on two counts': (I) To recover £5OO, the
bond guarantee, (2) to,([recover £6B duty. As the
Customs were out only for the latter they consented
to a verdict for the ainount without the question of
estreatrftent. of the. Ifond being decided. In giving
judgment for thatmimount., plus costs, the Chief Jus-
tice remarked that the liability of the agent who
signed the guarantee covering the duty on the cargo
of a ship of which he was agent was too plain to
argue about. The only weak point about the Cus-
toms’ case seems to be that a bagatelle of £5OO or
so is not security worth mentioning. If the duty on
two cases is £6B, please work out the duty on the
whole cargo. I, who have put through millions of
these bonds, turn cold on the pedals at the thought
of it.
“M.”: Viewed as a purely business venture, opium-
smuggling is a proposition rivalling sly-grog selling
or the running of a hazard joint in its possibilities of
profit. If the goods can be introduced safely once in
three times a commercial success is assured. The
worst trouble is that the bigger the parcel the more
difficult it is to get it ashore. And how big the
parcels can be was instanced the other day at Fre-
mantle (W.A.), when the Customs impounded from a
steamer arriving direct from London no less than
25511 b. weight of the drug l —which is a feather in
the cap of Oxley, W.A.’s brand-new Collector. The
lot consisted of 491.41 b. hermetically-sealed tins, and
101 b. of roll opium. Estimated at its Australian value
the consignment means over £4OOO. Approximately
it js worth about £1 per oz. here, as against (say)
£7 per lb. in London; but as it was more likely to
have been merely transhipped there, after having
been bought in Indian or Chinese ports, it would pro-
bably not cost half the latter amount. If the
“importer” runs his own joints, at least another
tenner per tin would have been added to the profit,
but for the regrettable interference of the Customs
crowd. As, usually happens, nobody aboard knew
anything whatever about the opium in this instance.
True, there are a score of Chows on the ship’s papers ;
but they knew less about it than the others who
knew nothing.
* * * *
“P.H.S.”: Te Rata, the Maori “king,” has sailed
for England; and if ever he meets his brother
monarch there, and talks about the “theft” of
Maori lands, it is to be hoped George will ask the
potentate what use the Maoris are making of the
land they have. 1 went through a good part of
the “King”. country lately, and I didn’t see a Maori
doing a stroke of husbandry there. But I did
hear several of the white people who have acquired
bites out of that country complain bitterly of the
trouble they have in reaching market, because of
the vast areas of unused native lands which pay no
rates and give no help in road-making. It is the
unwritten law in Maoriland that in public you mustn’t
speak disparagingly of the Maori. You mustn’t call
him a loafer —the most you may say is that he can
do nothing quite so well as he can talk, and loves
to do nothing else half so well. Yet he is a loafer,
and the manner in which native lands have been
placed at his disposal has helped him to be one.
It has turned him into a land shark, who waits to
take the increment that the white man makes for
him. The Dutchman has managed things better
with his Brown Brother in Java. Practically he
didn’t take any of the land at all from the native ;
but at the same time he didn’t give the native the
freehold to sell or rent and do as he likes with. In
Java the native community owns the land, and the
man who will not use it may not hold it. Conse-
quently there is no knifing there, waiting for the next-
door white man to' make things hum, and so put up
the sale or rent value. And work is so good for
the Javanese and every other nigger that the Dutch-
man’s native population doubles itself about every
35 years, and now numbers well over 30,000,000, while
~the Maori population doesn’t hold its own in num-
bers, in spite of a small increase in sonie recent
years—and is palpably decadent and a waste of
wonderfully good material. For his own good the
Maori needs to be taxed, or otherwise pricked into
more energetic ways.
* * * »
A chairman of directors was game, the other day,
to quote three lots of poetry to the Sydney share-
holders in a big wool and hide and skin co. Having
remarked that there was increasing demand in Bris-
bane for a place to store and sell hides and skins and
tallow, he said the Board was faced with the ques-
tion whether it should go slow or push hard. On the
one hand (Ist outburst), there was the example of
him who
“knows the compass, sail and oar.
Or never launches from the shore;
Before he builds computes the cost,
And in no proud pursuit is lost.”
r>,,i „„ ~ ~ . , * TT .
U ’ ol U he nand (spasm II.):
: , l mu , not think
That we aie made ot stuff so flat and dull
tfiat we can let our beard be shook with danger
Ana thinic it pastime.
So the directors decided to bog in hard, and build
acconnnodation for the hides and skins and tallow,
Whereupon the third fit:—-
“And though I hope not hence unscathed to go,
Who conquers me shall find a stubborn foe”
The chairman of this co. had fust announced a 12*
P*c. dividend, so he escaped. Something with more
blood and hair in it would probably happen to a
chairman who quoted three lots of poetry to hide-and
skin shareholders and then regretted that no dividend
could be paid this year.
t * * * *
‘ Aloana”: It takes money to be a vegetarian in
England. During last month strawberries
cost 40sj. per pound, or 2s. 6d. an ounce, in London ;
dessert apples were selling at 12s. a dozen, and aspara-
gus at 10s. 6d. per small bundle. Also, someone is
rumored to have bought a peach—but then he was a
notoriously extravagant millionaire.
* * *
“U.S.”: Carcavajo, a statist on whom Mulhall's
mantle appears to have fallen, puts New York’s
population at 7,454,256, London’s at 7,418,681.
N’York, according to the same authority, also leads
in foreign commerce for 1913, with £358,738,024
against £358,371,528. Likewise it is a trifle ahead in
the number of telephones, in money passing through
the banks’ clearing house, and in railway and tram-
way passengers. Yet statists hold that Chicago will
beat N’York, and Hankow is expected to beat Chicago,
These developments, however, will take time:
Chicago’s will be comparatively slow and Hankow’s
much slower. Then Gabriel’s horn will sound and
chump up the lot.
* * * <*
Victoria’s little lot of butter last season was
32,800 tons; and it is significant of the change the
business has undergone that only between 8 and 9 per
cent, of it was made on farms—the rest of it was
churned in factories, co-operative and otherwise.
* * * *
“Aloana”: More seed peas are grown in Marlborough
(M.L.) than in any other part of the world. This
last season about 10,000 acres were under this crop,
Most of the pea-growing is done under contract for
the big seed firms in the Cold Country, the average
price paid to the grower under these contracts linger-
ing round about ss. 6d. a bushel. As the crop
usually runs from 40 to 45 bushels to the acre, this
class of farming is highly remunerative. The joke
about the business is that when the amateur gardener
in windy Wellington buys <1 packet of Burst’s Big
Bounding Pea and boasts to his neighbor that he never
plants anvthing in his garden but the best imported
seed, he is really pavin°- a sultry price for the Marl-
borough-grown article that has been dragged at great
expense to Fogland. there to be labelled and dragged
back to the Pawned Dominion.
“Jim Ballast”: What about trying the “bardies
—as they call the wood grubs in Westralia —as a
titbit for human consumption ? Bushmen there are
credited with eating them raw, and it is reported that
they have a rich and nutty flavor, though they are
somewhat slippery and spill a little. Our black bro-
thers all over Australia eat them. The Adelaide
tribe in S. Aus. called them “wippities,” and offered
them to the early colonists as great delicacies, but
without takers, so far as 1 can learn. 1 am ignorant
of their value as food, but should they be found
palatable and nutritious —and why not? —let’s call
them gum oysters. The new trade would be a god-
send to timber-squarers. Just when the hewer hopes
to get sound pieces of timber he strikes the bardies,
and finds that his labor is wasted. Sometimes he
squares up the log and covers the hard packing left
behind the bardie with gum, or fills the hole with
mud, or a plug of wood, and then hand snigs it to
further disguise the repairs. Timber is snigged, i.e.,
dragged along the ground to the loading place, and
it’s advisable then to see that the faulty parts are
faced to the ground to get well rubbed. The price
paid the bushwhacker is bad enough with good
timber, though popular opinion has it that hewers
make from £4 IQs. to 4120 per week, just because
some young fool boasts of his week’s “tally” when
he happens to get a good “splitter” and “squarer.”
There’s no boasting about the time and trouble
wasted by bardies, and if a taste for them as an
article of diet could be cultivated, the excavated
trees wouldn’t be all loss to the hewer. I may add
that there are unlimited quantities of the grubs avail-
able, and with the increased price of meat the
matter is well worth investigation.
“Bloggs”: Ernest Hillier, the Yankee who runs the
soda-water fountain at the Imperial Salon (Sydney),
is a living example of the difficulty of making the
small financial beginnings that lead on to fortune.
At the time of the San Francisco earthquake he
owned five restaurants, and was affluent. Part of his
property was shaken to pieces ; the rest was burned
to the ground, lie faced the world a thoroughly
ruined Yank, it has taken him eight years to con-
nect with enough cash to make a fresh start on any-
thing like a payable scale. A very rich man once
told me that anyone could make a fortune once he
had made a thousand pounds. It may be so. At
the worst, the possession of such a sum enables a man
to accomplish a really imposing bankruptcy.
What is the Australian under-water record—for
ships, not men? A barge that was sunk about 20
years ago in the lake at Milang (S.A.) has never
been forgotten by her owners, but they have always
been too tired, or something, to fish her up. Even
her name has been remembered —Hilda. Now they have
accepted a trifle for what might be left of her, and
the new owner, after a few days’ dredging and pump-
ing, has acouired a very wet object, which is tin-
doubtedly Hilda, and she is to be restored as a per-
fectly-good barge for use on the Murray.
A brilliant effort by Private Enterprise came to a
sudden and disastrous stop at Clinton (M.L.) the
other day. A well-dressed young man named
Lehondorf dropped off a train there and promptly
started a profitable business by buying a bar of
common soap for lid. and cutting it up into numer-
ous small pieces. These were wrapped in pieces of
yellow paper bearing a high-sounding name and a
guarantee that the contents would remove grease
spots, tar, paint, stains on a conscience or anything
bar the M.L. national debt. The labelled soap was
put up in neat boxes, and the enterprising manufac-
turer, hawking from door to door, sold his entire
stock at 6d. a box. This brought him a revenue of
£5 12s. for his expenditure of lid. Unfortunate!v
for the brilliant financier he sold a cake of the stuff
to the wife of the local con, who discovered what it
really was. It was a bad break for P.E. It led to
disagreeable inquiries into his affairs, which were
found to consist mainly of some thousands of the
boxes and labels and a sheaf or so of unpaid hotel
bills. It appeared that he had landed at Auckland
and had worked his grease remover and conscience
renovator right down to the far south. Thereabouts
the respect sometimes due to Pirate Enterprise van-
ished, and in the vortex of the silence the Beak
handed Lehondorf three months’ hard labor.
THE SIS OF ULSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In anticipation of the trouble in Ulster, one Syd-
ney hotel has laid in 500 cases of stout, i:i addition
to ordinary stocks. —Trade item.
What! No more stout?
Nor oysters slippery and cold ?
The murder’s out!
By these low loyalists we’re sold!
What shall be done
With Orange lodge and lout
That threaten, ere to-morrow’s sun,
To stop the stout?
Perish these fools
Who Loyalty’s fair name
Use but as tools
To Guinness bring to shame:
Over the earth
Rolls that black, froth-topped flood.
If there’s a dearth
Of stout, then there’ll be blood.
What shall become of all
The midnight taxis and the hansom cabs ?
What of the crayfish tall,
Waiting despairing on the marble slabs?
What of the bottle-oh
If he be bottleless?
There shall be blood and woe
For our redress!
The Dago mourns beside
The flouted noble and deserted prawn;
The hollow-cheeked bride
Stares wanly at the cold and mocking dawn,
Waiting the tardy groom
Who prowls hotels about,
To know at dawn it is his fearful doom
To find no stout.
From Dublin to New York,
And down far south to Monte Video ;
From Sandy Fork
In Arizona west to Callao ;
London to Adelaide
I hear the shout
That sure will make these yellow pups dismayed
If there's no stout.
Arise and smite
These anarchists and worse!
Strike for the right
Where they feci most —the purse I
And let the slogan be
Cried loud about:
“Not loyalty but piracy
To stop the stout.”
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.


he/h^ne.3
HEARNES Bronchitis Cure
Is scientifically prepared by Mr. W. G. Hearne
who is a Registered Chemist of extensive ex-
perience, and the Manufacturer is absolutely
prepared to stake every ounce of his Mag-
nificent Reputation on the fact that
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
Cure
is equally beneficial to Children, Adults
and the Very Aged
For CROUP, COUGHS & COLDS
“My son had been attended by a legally qualified doctor,
who pronounced him to be suffering from Pneumonia and
Pleurisy. In spite of the doctor’s treatment the child gradually
got worse, and the doctor pronounced the case hopeless.
He told me that the child could not live. At this stage I
obtained HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure, and gave it
to the child, according to the directions which accompany
each bottle. The child improved after the second dose.
He continued to improve each day from each dose of
HEARNE’S Medicine alone, and within three
days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy. He was out
of bed at the end of a week, com-
pletely recovered.”
P. McKEE,
Carr St., South Geelong,
If not obtainable in your
district send direct to —
W. G. Ilea me
& Co. Ltd.,
GEELONG
Victoria.
Price, 2/6 & 4/6
n
s*
¥a
im
£
si
r
H
3*
1
uL
t
%
W'A
T^—«
I h
w
\
SS
f
Miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii/tiiTiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii
ii m
For general use
The ‘ALLENBURYS’ Diet is a
complete and easily digested food.
It is pleasant to take, readily assimilated and speedily restorative. Whilst
helping the system to recover its tone and vigour, it forms an ideal food
for general use. Prepared from rich milk and whole wheat in a partially
predigested form.
Made in a Minute
—add boiling water only —
ALLEN & HANBURYS LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND
and
MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. V
M
DIET
There is no need for Australians to
use
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
wr
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.


AUSTRALIA’S GREAT CLOCK HOUSE!
“Mare and Colt” Bronze Orna-
ment. Height, 8} inches. Ditto, in real
bronze finish, 20/-
10/6.
1-Day Bedroom Clock, inlaid
mahogany case, bold dial, accurate
timekeeper. Height, 7 j inches.
Postage
Extra
LUCKY 8-HOUR ART UNION
TICKETS, 1/- each, post free
A^&aunders
The House with the largest variety of Handsome Bronzes
and Reliable Clocks. Write for our beautiful 52=page
Free Catalogue of Clocks, and order by mail —
you’ll be pleased.
3=
10/6.
Solid Marble Bedroom
Clock, 30-hour, lever move-
ment, fancy dial. Height.
5i inches.
A Vi®
• ifl.
20/-
30-Hour Bedroom Clock,
with alarm, duil brass case, with
iirfays, enamel dial. Height, 4£
inches.
15/-
Bedroom Clock, solid silver-
mounted, fancy dial, extra heavy
7/C.
N ickel Alarm Clock,
small size, repeating alarm,
accurate. Others, 2/6, 3/6,
4/6.
Sswa
era
25/-
8-Day Enamelled Iron Clock gilt decora-
ations, chimes hours and half hours, on Cathedral
tone gong. Height, 10 inches.
8/6.
Carved Oak Bed-
room Timepiece, 30-
hour lever movement, bev-
elled glass. Height, 41
inches.
8/0.
“Mustang” Bronze O
Height, 7j inches. Ditto.
finish, 10/6.
i' ii a m e n t.
n real Bronze
32/6.
8-Day Antique Clock, inlaid
mahogany case, specially adjusted
French movement. Height, 11J
inches.
Extra
LUCKY 8-HOUR ART UNION
TICKETS, 1/- each, post free
807-817 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
To Hear
Ourselves
as Others
Hear Us
When you hear another
person, sing or recite you
are conscious of the faults
of that person’s voice and
method, although you may not have enough knowledge of vocal music
to correctly define the faults you detect.
The Edison Phonograph and Home Recording Outfit affords you
flic opportunity of detaching yourself from your voice and studying
your own faults as impersonally and as critically as you observe the
faults of others. With it you can record your own voice in the privacy
of your home as easily as you speak into a telephone. Then, by a
simple adjustment, you cause the phonograph to repeat to you what
lias been spoken- or sung to it. Thus you have the opportunity to
study your voice and manner of speech, correct the faults you discover,
and ultimately overcome them.
A Wonderful Booßlet
Free to You.
Our new booklet, “To Hear Ourselves as Others Hear Us —The Modern
{
Blarney Stone,” suggests various advantages which result from the study of
your own voice on the Edison Phonograph. A perusal of its pages is com-
mended to those who sing, whether professionally or merely for the edification
of themselves and their friendsto teachers of music, composers, lawyers,
clergymen, actors and actresses, lecturers, political students and speakers, busi-
ness executives, salesmen and saleswomen, young people generally, and to all
hostesses. To the latter it will suggest a variety of games both novel and
entertaining—games in which the Edison Phonograph plays the chief part.
Send your name and address to-day for a free copy of this grand little
booklet, and we will forward it to you by return mail.
M
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney.
FOR
fn
sST'*' ' ' %
mr
m
DRAWN TUNGSTEN Wiß£
SAVE -ss'- IN THE POUND
NO LAMPS TAKE LESS CURRENT
Basses


ACCORDEONS
ik DUDLEY
No other aceordeon can compare with the
“Dudley” for excellence of finish and full,
sonorous tone. Every instrument thoroughly
tested.
M
DUDLEY ACCORDEON MODEL “A”
Ebonised Mouldings; Nickel Corner Protec-
tors; 10-Button Keys of Mother of Pearl; 2
rows of Steel Reeds ; 10-fold Double Bellows;
2 Basses; 2 Stops; Leather Handles.
POST FREE 357-
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” instru-
ments or write direct to —
A. P. SYKES,
muntfCOLLINS S!MHBOURNF
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
n
11
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Riprg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholis, c/o Sydney Agents.
M
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. CREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
g ro * \
g COUGHS. 1
[fkbridqes
lU]juigloiiie
\coZ,J
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL. ENGLAND.
r^TT'iirt'.unr,,;
TK.v^'ltMTT'
&
u m&wSSm*
b*.tmksr\*a
L
TheMjacHorvSck*
from
Anyo
*»'m t
ahoul^bobhui
dmrougKly
t*+
I3A
iH
load
x
Do you
really enjoy life ?
The bright days of Summer should be days of physical
enjoyment and mental rest —rest from worry, rest from
indisposition.
Your work should be undertaken with cheerful
serenity, and if you are to “ make good ” it should be now.
Consider how little there is between a general indis-
position and real good health—nothing but a half-teaspoonful
of Krtischen Salts !
Kriischen Salts, taken regularly for a few mornings
make all the difference between the gloomy pessimist and
a healthy optimist.
Kriischen Salts is not a “fizzy drink.” It is not effer-
vescent at all and therefore has no tendency to produce
flatulence or discomfort after it is taken.
By stimulating your liver and kidneys to activity and
cleansing your system, Kriischen Salts help Nature to cast
off sluggishness. Hot weather ailments disappear, and you
are conscious of an exuberant vitality, a desire to be up
and doing.
Apart from the medicinal qualities of these salts, they
contain many valuable tonic properties —ask your doctor to
glance at the analysis (on every bottle) and tell you if it
is noi so.
Begin To-morrow
Begin to-morrow by taking half-a-teaspoonful of Kriischen
Salts in a glass of hot water when rising—and so continue
for a few days. That is the modern remedy for GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, AND THE EVILS OF URIC ACID.
iriischen
Salts
LIEBIG’S
ANALYSIS: —
SODASULPH.
SODA CHLORID.
SODA PHOSPH.
MAGNES. SULPH.
MAGNES. CHLOR.
POT AS. SULPH.
POTAS. CHLORID.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and
stores throughout Australia,
Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR,
287-289, Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Sole Proprietors :
E. GRIFFITH HUGHES
(KRUSCHEN) LTD.,
68, Deansgate Arcade, Manchester,
England.
ONE SIZE.
ONE PRICE.
2/-
Per Bottle.
Business Notices.
SPEAKERS, Lecturers, Writers are offered expert
assistance at moderate fees. Prospectus post free
on application to the Secretary, London General In-
formation Service, ltl St. Stephen’s House, Westmm-
ster, London, England.
SATISFIED!
WEAR ABBEY SHOES.
The illustration shows our latest
model, a choice Patent Oxford Bal.,
with Dull Calf Legs 32/6
In Highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 3 °/‘
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage 9d. extra.
Send for a copy of our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
*
0
CRACKAJACK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/-
SENIOR 2/-
J UN I OR 1/6
DOUBLE 1/-
BOSS CRACKER 17-
CADET 76
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
M
Silver=Toned
MELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WRITE FOR OUR NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.


THREE CHEERS!!
Haig § Haig Scots Whisky
(ESTABLISHED 1679.)
Franz Josef Lager Beer
Hackerbrau Bark Lager
To thoroughly enjoy the week-end trip or to kill
the monotony of a voyage or a railway journey it
is only necessary to arm one’s self with a copy of
“A Journalist and Two Bears,” the book of the
year. This collection of tales and verse from the
pen of James Edmond has the infinite variety that
appeals to all men, and makes the world a much
better place to travel or week-end in. If your book-
seller has not got it send 13 penny stamps to the
publishers, The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst Street,
Sydney, and the book will be sent by return post.*
m
m
- ■&.
J
<£4^B
V'E'Z'F.'t.VK HOWARD Witch.
In more than one hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
factor.
Call and sec the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
Il: must be a matter of hitler reproach to
Joe Cook that he obtained a dissolution be-
fore he had time to abolish the “Bangie
Bonus,” which has “insulted” 206,542 Aus-
tralian mothers, and won the approbation of
such authorities as Dr. Mackellar. How-
ever, all Australia has to do is to send the
Cook party back to power, and presumably
it. will do for Australian mothers what so
far its leader has only promised to do.
“Doctor,” .on one of the proposals of
William Holman :
The S. M. Herald (30/5/T4) has an article de-
signed to show the dubious advantages of a State
Eire 1 surance Department. I do not propose to deal
with the figures quoted, nor all the conclusions
arrived at; but I do insist that the establishment of
the Maoriland State Office resulted in the various
companies substantially reducing their premium rates.
One critic of the M.L. office quoted by the Herald
says that the Department sends its surplus business
to Lloyd’s (London) underwriters, who pay no local
taxes, etc. lie estimates that the Department has
sent away £120,000 upon which it received not less
than 20 per cent, commission, and he therefore stig-
matises it as a “State Brokerage Department.”
Naturally lie did not say that, when the M.L. State
Eire Department was established, the various com-
panies refused to accept the Department's reinsur-
ances, and therefore the Department was compelled
to reinsure its surplus risks in London —which it was
able to do at a better rate, as it turns out, than
could have been obtained from the local companies
had they accepted the business.
If anything could kill that quaint foolish-
ness known as the Address-in-Reply, the re-
cent proceedings in the Senate should send
it down and out. The Labor Opposition, by
a big majority, carried a hostile amendment
to the address, whereupon Senator Milieu
flatly refused to go on with it. and proposed
to leave bis Ex. without any answer sit. all
to his “speech,” which quite clearly shows
the utter superfluity of the time-wasting
document.
At the eleventh hour Cook decided that
something must be done to allay, the feeling
that the party was bound to the Juggernaut
wheels of the Meat Trust. So Justice Street
was appointed a Commissioner, and to
helj) him discover the Trust a Bill was
brought in authorising him to do
something which the Constitution, accord-
ing to the Privy Council decision in
the Sugar Co.’s case, does not em-
power him to do. The Cook Government
introduced a Bill which it must have known
could not be enforced : the Trust could still
refuse to answer almost any serious questions
put to its witnesses. “But,” explains the
Cookoos, “if they do refuse they will thereby
lay themselves open to grave suspicion.” As
if the Yankee Meat Trust were a fragrant
violet that shrank from a threatened breath
of suspicion!
Liberalism means to give itself every
chance in the coming Senate elections, so far
as the N.S.W. sectional votes are concerned.
Till lately no one ever heard of Trethowan.
ouside his own little farming circle. Coen
appears to be an admirable young man —the
last to bring a parent’s grey hairs in sorrow
to the tomb —but his real qualifications lie
in the fact that he is a footballer and an
li.C. And ll.' E. Pratten’s mission is to
rope in the Protectionist vote. The only
weak feature of this ingeniously arranged
bunch is that it doesn’t contain a Jew. But
no doubt Liberalism considers that, by virtue
of its immemorial financial policy, it has
Jerusalem in the bag anyhow.
UASEAWORT HY CKAFT.
There will be no safety for the travelling public
until the directors of companies which send 1500
people to sea in a ship capable of being destroyed
in 15 minutes, are put on their trial as accessories
for manslaughter.— Holman, on a recent sea disaster.
THE PASSENGER: “And then he sends me to
sea in a craft like this!”
In the coming general election the N.S.W.
Liberal party will run a bunch of six Senate
candidates, including retiring Senators Mil-
len, Gould and Oakes,.with ,H. E. l’ratten,
A. K. Trethowan and F. Coen. Of ’these
Pratten once unsuccessfully tried to oust
Bruce Smith from the l’arkes electorate;
Trethowan was defeated at last State elec-
tion for a country district; and. Coen has
not even a trial run to his credit. He is a
young barrister of 29, unknown in the Courts,
but with some reputation as a footballer and
oarsman. The poor calibre of Senate can-
didates in all the States is an uncomfortable
feature of Federal politics.
“Ferry Skipper” : N.S.W. Premier Holman,
in misguided indignation, has publicly de-
nounced directors of over-sea shipping com-
panies for building unstable ships and
crowding them with thousands of helpless
people. Should a similar tragedy occur
within sight of Holman’s window in the
N.S.W. Treasury, he will, I suppose, rail at
the Ferry cos. for not providing better-built
and constructed ships. Yet the Marine Act
which Ilolman himself administers requires
that a ferry steamer 150 ft. long shall be
provided with only two bulkheads. That is
all Holman’s own law demands. Certainly
the cos. provide more than that, which
merely shows that the cos. are more con-
cerned about the safety of the passengers
than Holman’s own department is. In these
circumstances Ilolman had better keep quiet
till he amends his own law.
Australia is getting deadly dull in poli-
tical objurgation; tlm mere nasty-little-
boy rudeness of Jokook and the melancholy
bad language of Wade are poor things.
Lloyd George still gives the best lessons in
this form of art. “The aristocracy and their
triends are crowing jubilantly,” said lie the
other day; “but the very dunghill upon which
they are perched is being undermined by the
flood of public opinion.” That is gomething
tike emphasis.
The haste with which the new Excellency
granted Jokook’s request for a double disso-
lution gives point to the “coarse” interjec-
tion of Senator Long, when the announce-
ment was made in the Senate: “That is
what he was imported for.” The departed
Denman had the demerit of understanding
the position; Munro Ferguson understands
only the side of it presented by his advisers.
And unfortunately he doesn’t know his ad-
visers. How could he. stepping off the ship
right into the middle of the alleged crisis?’
"D.”:,ln arranging with the Westralian
Government about the sleeper contract for
tin l ’cross-Australian line, Bigjohn Forrest
put his list, in the scale of Private Enterprise,
lie tried to insist on Scaddan supplying jar-
rail instead of karri, because he knows, or
should know, that the State mills are in
karri country, and that Scaddan would have
to go ,to the privately-owned mills for the
other stuff. It looks as if Bigjohn has been
vexed, not about karri being used for sleepers,
but because Private Enterprise had not the
supplying of the timber.
The present arrangement under which a
suburban council is entrusted with the job
of keeping its roads in order while the Pub-
lic Works Department is supposed to keep
the bridges along those roads in repair is
responsible for the latest strike. The Parra-
matta-road, which is the main thoroughfare
between Sydney and the whole of the west-
ern and south-western portions of the
State, is in a pretty terrible condition itself,
but various bridges along the road are posi-
tively dangerous; and the worst of the,lot
is one on the boundary of Granville and
Auburn, which is alleged to be the oldest
bridge in N. S. Wales. The Granville Coun-
cil has got tired of asking the Works De-
partment to do anything, so it lias decided
to close its half of the bridge until the
repairs are made; and, as one-half of a
bridge isn’t much good without the other
half, this means that all traffic along the
road will be blocked until either the strike
fizzles out or the Works Department comes
along with a few nails and logs and puts
the thing in order.
The local aeronaut Penfold, before drop-
ping in a parachute from the North Sydney
Suspension Bridge into the water, unfurled
the Australian flag and shouted, “My motto
is ‘Advance Australia.’ ” Also, “on emerg-
ing, drenched to the skin, the gathering gave
him an appreciative cheer.” Whereat Pen-
fold :—-
I take, those cheers, gentlemen, not for myself, but
for my' country. I am an Australian.
It is possible to overdo this sort of thing.
If every clerk, before settling down to his
daily toil, unfurled a flag and bellowed his
motto, the effect would be to draw derision
upon himself, his flag, his motto and every-
thing else about him. National flags require
to be treated delicately. Empire Day has
done more to make the Union Jack a syno-
nym for absurdity than all the assaults of
foreigners and “disloyalists.” The Austra-
lian flag and the national sentiment of Aus-
tralia will suffer similarly if every showman
is encouraged to use them for advertising
purposes. ' And while a flag may be an in-
spiring thing to be buried with after an heroic
death, it is a ridiculous garment in which
to go for a swim. As this paper regards
the matter, the more a flag is wagged the
cheaper it becomes.
NEGATIVE PATRIOTISM.
Our defensive preparations here are beginning to
be of a serious order....It is the one thing that I
have not the slightest intention of stinting.
Cook. Prime Minister.
JOE (as he ducks just in time): “Beg pardon,
lads! Ear [?] it from me to divert your
aim in any way!”
The recent hatch of elections for Wes-
tralia’s llmisV of Fat made no difference
to Labor. The Liberals lost one seat,
gained one, and still hold the thick end of
the stick. During the, next three years a
score or two of Labor proposals, passed in
the Assembly, will therefore be heaved into
the dust-bin, while Jack Scaddan looks on
and swears that he will abolish the nuisance
if it isn’J: rerii careful.
Cook's double dissolution has set the pon-
derous papers going again, and their columns
are spattered with heroic remarks about “the
chariot wheels of Liberalism” that will soon
be thundering triumphantly through the land.
But Liberalism in the policy sense hasn’t got
a chariot. Cook resembles Ilarry Lauder’s
youthful “Saftest of the Family.” who holds
aloft a steel washer he has picked up in the
road, and says impressively. “A washer-r! —
to make motor-car-r-s with!”
GOOD ADVICE.
The preparations of other nations had a sinister
meaning, and they should be ready to defend their
place with the strong right arm, if need De. While
waiting for better methods of performing their
Imperial duties, let them remember that their first
Imperial duty was to provide themselves with a gun
that would shoot. —Joe Cook, to Young Australia.
THE VETERAN : “Aye, lad, take heed o' my
words, it's me as knows the trials of
fightin' badly armed!”
Says the International Socialist,
published at Sydney: “What would the Japs
do if they came to Australia?” Well, if
they were to do a twentieth of what they
did when they went to Korea, for instance,
doesn’t the INTERNATIONAL SOCIALIST reckon
it should hurriedly get over its objection to
compulsory military training?
A Sydney weekly has a cartoon repre-
senting George Reid’s Socialistic tiger leap-
ing with open mouth and baleful eye upon
the shrinking figure of Australia. The only
thing that differentiates this animal from
the one that the Liberal press used to fea-
ture in 1906, 1909 and 1912 is the fact that
it is marked “Asia.” Underneath are the
words “Australia’s Great Danger.” If
Liberalism has ceased to fear Sosh and is
learning to dread the Asiatic it will be a
great point gained.
In reply to a deputation, Holman has
laid down more or less definitely the lines
upon which the amendments of the N.S.W.
Arbitration law are to run. Three or four
additional Judges are to be appointed for
industrial work; each will sit as a Court,
with assessors to give advice on technical
matters. This will mean the disappearance
of practising barristers as chairmen of
hoards. Labor has had an idea that his
private practice often influenced the bar-
rister in his work as chairman. By exclud-
ing lawyers from appearing in industrial
cases the unionists also hope to give a
knock-out to Costs and simplify and expe-
dite proceedings. No donbt, in spite of all
these amendments, the Potboilers’ Progres-
sive Society may still decide to down tools
and cause an industrial earthquake; but the
better the Act is made'the less excuse will
there be for the Potboilers, and the more
inclined will an exasperated community feel
to demand that even a Potboiler should be
compelled to obey the law which has been
passed for his benefit.
“Morgan”: I say “Hear,
hear” to The Bulletin’s
dictum that, if the occasion
should arise, the whole amount
which it is possible for Aus-
tralia to borrow should be
spent on one section of the
Continent, and that the other
sections should be obliged to
stand back. But how can any-
one expect Scaddan to agree
to stand back on behalf of
remote, undeveloped Westralia
while the National Parliament
is so badly neglecting that
other remote, undeveloped part,
the Northern Territory? Let
the National Parliament prove
that it is national —that it
wants to advance the interests
of Australia as a nation,
making everything else subser-
vient to that —and half the trouble with
regard to the transfer of the debts and the
control of future borrowing will be over.
In view of IJolman’s promise to see that
ladies are given the right to sit in the
N.S.W. Assembly, members are already in-
sisting that the arrangement of pairs shall
be taken out of the hands of the party whips
and left to members themselves.
SPANKS FOR WOMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At a Suffragette demonstration at Belfast a party
of girls employed in the mills, who disapproved of
suffragette methods, mobbed several of the women.
They captured one militant suffragette, and .tore off
nearly all her clothing-. Then they took her shoes
off, and “spanked” her with them.
Addressing the Bench, the suffragette Madge Muir,
vho was dressed as a man, complained in Court of
millhands spanking suffragettes.
—Cable items of importance
Where House and magistrate and cop
Have tried with foolish laws to stop
The suffragettes from raging,
The Belfast ladies of the mill
Have shown a method simpler still
Than fining or than caging.
When Votes for Women ran amuck
Decisively these millhands struck
In manner more engaging.
The Belfast girls we thank !
A lesson to the suffragette
They gave that she will not forget;
They captured one —she’s smarting yet!
Her clothes from her they rudely tore,
And with her shoes they smote her sore.
They did not smack her naughty face:
They gave her —on another place—-
J list
One
Hard
Spank!
So when the suffragettes too rife
Become with hatpin, bomb and knife,
And venture with their hatchet
That Venus nude to smite and hack,
Because they haven’t got a back
in loveliness to match it,
The mill-girls have an antidote
Eor these fierce Bacchi of the Vote —
And won’t the ladies catch it!
Yes, even Mrs. Bank !
It was upon this special place
That suffragettes in childish days
Felt most the error of their ways.
The remedy is old but sure;
It seems a really certain cure.
For this is just the sort of strike
That hunger-strikers do not like —•
Just
One
Hard
Spank !
And so, if Parliament but will
Make every man responsible
Eor daughter or for sister,
And gaol the husband of the wife
IVho runs amuck with bomb or knife,
It will perhaps assist her
To sit at home, as is most fit—
Though, maybe, she won’t want to sit
Because of too much blister!
For every suffra-crank'
Within each household’s privacy,
Each man will take her on his knee —
The bitterest indignity—
And in the good old English way
Remind her that she must obey.
There is no need for gaol or rack :
There’s much more virtue in a smack —
Just
One
I lard
Spank !
N.S.W.
MRS. WORSTSPANK.


D
a
a
a
Q
O
3d
PcftFECm
«in//
> a-?
SSt's,
V
noiT**
*>:«:<>:(" sp®.
k m
mi 111
Write
for
Catalop'
t>
Vacuum Oil
Company
Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the
Commonwealth and
New. Zealand
MODEL “ N ’’—HORIZONTAL STATIONARY
OIL ENGINES: 1 to 100 H P.
tt
INVINCIBLE
MODEL 11 M”—'VERTICAL STATIONARY
OIL ENGINES: 2 to 10 H.P.
MARINE-
STATIONARY
and PORTABLE
OILENGINES
The Best in the World.
Simplest—Strongest—Most Durable—Most Economical.
“Invincible” Engines are on show at our Depots in the following towns of New South
Wales: —Canowindra, Coolamnn, Cootamundra, Delungra, Gilgandra, Glen Innes, Grenfell,
Inverell, Lockhart, Manilla, Molong, Mudgee, Murwillumbah, Narrabri, Narromine, Parkes, Peak
Hill, Scone, Tamworth, Taree, Teinora, Trundle, The Rock, Wellington, West Wyalong.
At these Branches we are keeping full sets of all Duplicate Parts, and expert services are
always available.
See an “Invincible” working. It will convince you. It is the simplest in design,
the easiest to operate, the sweetest-running, and, because of these qualities, it costs you the least
in repairs. It is built with absolute precision, so that repair parts (of which large supplies
are kept constantly in stock) fit with the utmost accuracy.
“Invincible” Engines are built to run on any Fuel.
Every “Invincible” Oil Engine is Guaranteed for F 1Y 7 E Years.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. LTD.
Works: WOOLWICH, N.S.W. Sydney Showrooms: 35 PITT STREET.
Sole Distributing Agei t; for “INVINCIBLE” STATIONARY
and PORTABLE ENGINES FOR NEW SOUTH WALES are
Messrs. JAMES BELL & CO., 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ENGINEERS’
Pocket Books
of Formultc, Rules, Tables and Data ft r 1914.
A compendium of the modern practice of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical, Marine, Gat and
Mine Engineering'. Revised by Eminent Specialists. 1800 pages and 1350 illustrations.
Leather Bound.
JUST ARRIVED. PRICE 15/- (Postage 6d.)
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
Diamonds!
You Know Their Value.
How reliable an investment they make. Well,
we can offer you Diamond Rings, set with 5 Fine
Gems, at a price showing a 40% Saving on every-
day rates. This is brought about by means of a
special purchase of two Parcels of Diamonds offered
to our London House by a Cutter, who needed
cash. He probably takes it out of the small
Jeweller—but that’s no concern of yours, natur-
ally. The hard, sensible fact remains, you can
effect this substantial saving by promptly investing
in one of these H.H., 5-stone Diamond Rings.
£5, £6 lOs., £7 lOs., £8 lOs., £lO
Just compare these prices with the actual Rings
and you have at once full proof of the wonderful
value they represent.
On receipt of a satisfactory reference we will
forward a selection to any address.


RESCH’S Dinner Aie,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
If you wish to read a breezy account of
any of the great fights that have taken place at the
Svdney Stadium, you will find it in that cheerful
book with the red cover, “Famous Fights at the
Stadium,” by C. A. Jeffries. Price, one shilling.
If your bookseller hasn’t got it, send 12 stamps to
The Platypus Press, 117 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
The book is now in the second edition.*
Legal Notices.
To CHARLES JAMES HOLMES, formerly
of Waiuku, Auckland, New Zealand, but
last heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of His
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.,
Chief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of the Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send into the undersigned, on or before
the Ist day of October, 1914, your claim to
part of the estate of WALTER JOHN
HOLMES, late of Waiuku, Auckland,
Farmer, deceased, who died on the 9th day
of November, 1905, intestate, failing which
such estate will be distributed among the
persons entitled thereto disregarding your
claims.
Dated at Wellington this 30th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
KIDNEY TROUBLES.
NORTH SYDNEY LADY SAYS PAINS
QUICKLY DISAPPEAR AFTER A
FEW DOSES OF DR. MORSE’S IN-
DIAN ROOT PILLS.
“Noticing Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
advertised as a remedy for kidney troubles,”
writes Mrs. Alice Hilder. of Christie Street,
St. Leonards, North Sydney, “and being a
sufferer from that complaint and constipa-
tion, I decided to give them a trial. I
found them relieve me at once after a few
doses, and the pains from the region of the
kidneys disappeared quickly, and I have
every faith in your great remedy. I recom-
mend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills to my
friends, and you may use these few lines in
anv way you desire.”
One of the properties of Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Root Pills is a diuretic, which gives
ease and double strength to the kidneys:
thus encouraged they draw large amounts of
impurity from the blood, which is thrown
out bountifully by the urinary or water
passages, and which could not have been
discharged in any other way."
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Kalgoorlie and Boulder still find a trifle
for the races. At the Autumn Meeting, three days
for each place, about £49,000 went through the
totalisator and £4500 was paid at the gates. And
that wasn’t all, for a few score visiting bookies went
away happy, and the local totes and betting men
leaped a 20-bushel harvest. *
Shamus McPalestine had a fairly joyous
time at Randwick on Saturday. For the first Hurdles
the public chose Zoeliolme at seven to two against,
and the 10-to-one chance Demand rolled home
easily. In the Novice Handicap Contone carried the
public swag' at fours, and Holy Smoke, at 10’s,
secured the bacon. In the First Steeple Wadder was
favorite at five to two against, and Don Q. won at
eights. The punters got back a trifle of their own in
the First Nursery Handicap, when the favorite Head-
wind, backed down to twos, won by a length and a
half. In the June Stakes public favor was divided
between Averse and La Fiancee at sixes. Cool Air
landed the oof for McPalestine at. 14's, a sure indica-
tion there were but few who anticipated the perform-
ance. The last race, the Ellesmere Handicap, was
won by Firm, who shared the popular fancy with
Limelight and Cedilla at fives.
The plucking of the pigeons continued on
Monday, when the sticky course upset a lot of cal-
culations. In the Hurdles Forest Prince was at five
to two against, with a sprinkling on Hallmark at
seven to two against. Hallmark won. The Flying
Handicap was won by the 15-to-one chance Collar.
Then, as if to encourage the pigeon to try his luck
once more. Little, favorite at fours, ran home 15
lengths to the good in the Second Nursery. But
McPalestine got it all back in the next race, when
the public plumped on Altar Boy and Don Q., and
Tyrone (at 20’s) came home Half a length to the
good. The Winter Stakes brought a gleam of joy to
the punters, whose choice, Sir Alwynton, backed
down to twos, won by two lengths. The final flutter,
the Exeter, saw Cedilla favorite at fours, and Idyea
second favorite at fives. Symetris, starting at sevens,
beat Idyea by half a length, with Cedilla unplaced.
It was a cold time for the pigeons.
Adelaide Birthday Cup, worth more than
£lOOO to the winner, fell to Orvieto, the useful
Wallace mare that ran only second in the same race
last year, carrying a stone less weight. Apparently
Orvieto has improved a lot with age—the Wallace
stock have a tendency that way—and she should be
a good trial horse for Scobie’s lot in the Spring
handicaps.
Frank Meyers, of the London Stores,, who
fought the V.R.C. over the Blackpool case, is now
winning good races with Golden Wire, a speedy son
of Havoc. The stable didn’t greatly fancy him for a
six-furlong flutter at Flemington last Saturday, but
he managed to win by a nose. The breeding suggests
that the Wire ought to do something over a distance
one of these days.
There are indications of a revival of the
ancient glories of the Miller stable at next V.R.C.
Grand National meeting. The best thing of the
Birthday meeting at Flemington was Anachrion, for
the Hunt Club’s Cup, a 21-miles steep., with the
amateur jockey proviso. Anachrion, a four-year-old
novice, carrying Hubert Miller’s colors, went out at
even money and did as the rider wished with the
opposition. It was the gelding’s second appearance
in public, and first appearance over the jumps. The
word went round that he was bound to win, bar a
fall, and the word was right. The race certainly
was no test of Anaehrion’s ability to get round the
course under Grand National conditions, but he
jumped cleanly enough, in a slow, deliberate style,
and shows promise of developing into a real good
steeplechaser. At the same meeting, Billiam Ander-
son’s three-year-old gelding, Sir Prim, won a hurdle
race in nice style. If he were a year older this
well-bred beginner v r ould look a likely G.N. candi-
date.
Another lesson on the beauty of the
honest, reliable tote is furnished by the case of one
Dobbin, a bookmaker, who. it seems, went to Moonee
Valley (Vic.) races one day in April and commenced
to “lay the fee-eld,” though, being unregistered, he
was not entitled to do so. He had laid four wagers
against Mountain Princess, and no other horse, when
the authorities asked him what he meant by it.
He thereupon returned their wagers— £ 8 in all—•
to three backers who happened to be handy ; but the
other punter, who had invested £5, was undiscover -
able. The Law annexed the fiver and suppressed
Dobbin; and then, failing to disinter the missing
bettor, it asked the Essendon Bench to decide the
destination of the fiver. The beaks pondered thought-
fully over the problem, opined that the cash belonged
to either Dobbin or the lost backer —which was fairly
obvious —and desired the police to find the latter,
which they have Buckley’s hope of doing. That is
the sort of mess that never happens with the tote.
In can’t r.un an unregistered joint; it never returns
backers their stakes just as the race is about to be
run and when there is no time to back their fancies
anywhere else; and if a backer does, accidentally
forget to come for his winnings it knows exactly
what to do with the surplus coin.
Inter-’Varsity athletics were won this year
by Adelaide —the home team —for the first time.
Sydney was not conspicuous, except in the mile,
where Furner and Street had the finish to them-
selves. Kelly was easily Melbourne’s best man,
winning the 220, high jump and shot, with a second
in the quarter. For Adelaide. Pellew, (the inter-State
cricketer) and lan Pender piled up most of the 16
points that won (Melbourne 10, Sydney 4, Bris-
bane 0). The biggest event was the hurdles, in
which branch Adelaide has what just now looks like
the two best men in Australia. Leslie Wallmann,
the Australian champion,'won from Pender in record
time, 15 3-ssec. Two days later, at the local ’Var-
sity’s own sports, the same race was a fifth slower,
and that time Pender got home by inches. There is
a cup for the man earning most points in the day.
Pellew and Wallmann were 17 each when the last
race started—the mile. Neither of them is good over
a distance; in fact, it was said that neither had
ever covered a mile before. But thev pluckily
battled out their private contest, regardless of the
real milers ahead of them; and-Pellew-just won.
* *- * *
When the clock struck the hour for Eng-
land versus the Me f ropolis, at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, 50,000 pairs of eyes were fixed
on the gate whence the Englishmen would emerge,
and when the Sydney crowd saw the English XIII
file on to the ground there was a gasp of astonish-
ment and apprehension. A more formidable-looking
crowd it would be hard to imagine. “A team of
‘dreadnoughts’!” gasped somebody. They were
gigantic, truly, and if, they were anything like other
English teams that had been here, everybody felt
that the Metropolitan team was in for a bad time.
They started with a magnificent rush, and literally
ran over resistance. Sweeping on in pursuit of the
leather it looked as though they would trample
through and over everything right on to victory.
After the hurricane had swept over it the flattened-
out Metropolitan pack lifted itself to its knees and
gazed round to see where the traction engines had
come from. But the wild rush of the English
towards the goal was checked by threequarter Deane
reaching the leather first, and next moment the ball
was dead. Jarman, the English forward, opened a
fresh attack, but by this time the dazed Metropoli-
tans had pulled themselves together, and one by
one they hurled themselves into the fray, and gradu-
ally began to hold their own till they outhooked the
English and forced their captain to set his' back
machine moving. And right then, as if touched by
sudden palsy, the Englishmen crumpled up, and the
Metropolitans swung down the field, and within two
minutes had scored the first goal. What happened
to the English is impossible to say. Apparently
the ball got away from them ; accustomed to play-
ing' in boggy ground they could not keep the leather
at the toes when they tried dribbling charges. But
that was not all. They seemed to lose their combina-
tion. They apparently forgot everything they should
have remembered. They failed to pass. And when
they did pass it was wildly, badly done. They
wasted vast vats of tremendous energy charging
right across the field from one side to the other.
Then they lost their speed, while the triumphant
Australians seemed to grow faster as the minutes
flew. Scores came quick and fast, and at half-time
the Metropolitan team had stamped the visitors flat
and scored 23 points to two. It was awful. The
second half saw the struggling English pull them-
selves together for a few minutes and once more
attempt to carry the game into Metropolitan terri-
tory. But the tackling was deadly. The Australian
team had got its second wind, and the beginning
of every passing charge was broken up, the ball
wrenched away, and the repulse followed up by
. counter-attacks that were pressed home. Then the
giants lost heart, and the Metropolitan team added
another 15 points to the already overwhelming score.
Dally Messenger’s younger brother had kicked no less
than nine goals. Then the Metropolitan defence
weakened. The local team seemed to lose interest ;
they played as though they wanted the visitors to
score, and the visitors did —twice, and lifted their
score by two tries, one of which was converted.
After that the whistle blew, and England left the
field defeated by 38 points to 10. It was Bannockburn,
Majuba Hill and Spion Kop rolled into one. It was
the greatest football collapse ever seen on Sydney
Cricket Ground, and it was received in the deadliest
silence ever heard on that classic ground.
Monday being a holiday, the N.S.W.
Rugby League’s struggle with England continued.
Flushed with the overwhelming victory of Saturday,
the Australian selectors chose the same team that had
done battle for the Metropolis on Saturday—which,
considering the vast amount of material at their
command, was a vain and foolhardy thing to do.
The English captain had wisely decided that the
match between England and N.S.W. was a bigger
event than the scrum between England and Syd-
ney, and he had kept his best team for Monday, and
it was a very different team. Moreover, the weather
conditions favored the English. Sunday brought a
sprinkling of rain, and Monday dawned threateningly.
The threat was kept, and torrents of rain descended
and gave the Englishmen a . field after their own
hearts. The English captain, Wagstaff, scored the
first try for John Bull’s team, but the shot at goal
missed. The pace became absolutely terrific, and
after a desperate struggle the Australians managed
to score a couple of points. A heavy downpour of
rain did not interfere with the game. The crowd
on the open ground formed a Roman tortoise of thou-
sands of umbrellas. In the midst, of the driving rain
the Cornstalks worked their way to within five yards '
of the English line; then a blunder took place and
like a flash five Britons descended on the ball.
Starting a magnificent passing charge they reached
the N.S W. 25, where a scrum took place, after which
Messenger missed a shot at goal, and immediately
afterwards retired with an injured knee. Fraser
took his place, and arrived just in time to see
Horder kick a magnificent goal for Ma State from
the western boundary, which gave N.S.W. the lead
with four to three. Then the English lost a man,
but declined to replace him, after which Horder
promptly kicked another penalty goal. This lifted
the score to six to three, and so it was at
half-time. The second half was very similar. The
only difference was that the English, who are obvi-
ously out of condition, were less able to stand
against the sustained charges of their more seasoned
rivals, and though they struggled valiantly they were
slowly Worn down and stamped under. A’ fine
struggle resulted in the defeat of the visitors by 11
to three. Which was a long way different to Satur-
day’s debacle by 38 to 10. The victorious Corn-
stalk is hereby adjured not to get swelled head over
these two triumphs, but to regard them as crowning
mercies against a very formidable crowd of players,
who, when they strike form and combination, will
be a very tough problem indeed.
* * * *
Whilst these stirring deeds were being
enacted at the Cricket Ground, out at Epping a
Soccer team from Victoria was prancing on the chest
of N. S. Wales. The Ma State captain won the toss,
and 3000 Ma Staters were present when the ball was
set in motion. The Victorians opened with a very
strenuous attack, but the N.S.W. captain proved him-
self a real champion, and drove them back by good,
heady kicking. Then the home team got a chance,
missed it, and before it could be recovered the Vic-
torians had kicked clear. The game had started at
a high speed, but both sides warmed up and played
as though pursued by the Devil; the Victorians
keeping the home team strictly on the defensive.
Lowe, the N.S.W. goalkeeper, had a strenuous time,
but was equal to it right up to half-time. The
second half opened with a determined effort by N.S.W.
to score, but the shot went wide, and Victoria, re-
turning to the charge, caught the local defence nap-
ping. There was a swift charge down the wing, a
beautiful centring kick, and then a gaol. Down came
the rain at this stage : but the N.S.W. team played
on, frantically struggling to equalise the score. It
was no good. The Victorian team was distinctly
superior, and won by one goal to nil.
At Brisbane, on a treacherous, slippery
field in heavy rain, the N.S.W. Rugby Union team
attacked and overthrew Queensland in the return
match. In the first half the Cornstalks scored five
to nil, and in the second spell they added eight, and
prevented the Queensland team breaking the egg.
Then the brief wintry day came to a sudden end, and
left the teams struggling in the semi-darkness.
The sun shed its glad effulgence on Mel-
bourne’s hoofballers on Saturday. Intoxicated with
their victory over ’Wood, the Saints proceeded to
Fitzroy to repeat the performance. When the first
quarter ended they had accumulated 19 points to
’Roy’s four, and felt good; but the Maroons rather
fancy an uphill fight, and at the interval they had
got about level. Thereafter the Saints fell ever
farther and farther in the rear, aril boasted but 48
points to ’Roy’s 73 when the bell rang. Over at
Victoria Park Essendon, which had walloped St.
Ivilda, and was only two points the worst of South,
tackled the somewhat discredited Magpies, and by
long kicking and high marking acquired 28 points
to 14 during the first term. But the Magpies, play-
ing with good system, reduced the deficit to five
points at lemon-time. The last quarter showed that
the exceptional speed had told most on the ’Dons,
who could add but a goal and a behind to ’Wood’s
four goals three behinds. A clean, strenuous, hand-
some game, with ’Wood 78 points to ’Don’s 63. The
unbeaten South journeyed to Richmond, where they
have so often reaped disaster, and, urged on by a
discourteous multitude, both sides bogged-in till the
proceedings got so enthusiastic that the umpire con-
sidered matters. Then club delegates came out and
spoke to both sides firmly, and in the last term there
was more hoofball and less stoush. South did more
scoring all through, and won with 54 points to 36.
This umpire, by the way, had, early in the game,
with his head stopped a piece of bluemetal aimed
by a cranky barracker, the resultant wound calling
for several stitches. Carlton went to Geelong and
accumulated nary a point to Geelong’s 35 at quarter
time, and but eight to Geelong’s 49 at the interval.
After that the result was obvious, Geelong winning
by 65 points to 34. The negligible Melbourne>team
handed the Students about as bad a doing as the
best of the ciubs did—93 points to ’Varsity’s 46. One
begins to lose interest in these Students ; the farther
they go the worse they get.
The Ass. game furnished some shocks.
Brunswick started with a rush, collared a lead from
the ’Dons, otherwise the Dreadnoughts, and stuck to
it till the bell rang, having then 74 points to ’Don’s
56. Northcbte, having begged, bought or stolen some
large, meaty ‘ men from League clubs, surprised Haw-
thorn with the vigor of its play, and ultimately
gained its first victory this season by two points—
-77 to Hawthorn’s 75. P’ran likewise disturbed ’Scray
by holding the latter’s .forwards in check while its
own performed their tasks effectively. Scores, 72
points to ’Scray’s 65. ’Town proceeded to Brighton
and handed it a walloping, small but sufficient—s 4
points to 50. The suddenest shock of the day, how-
ever, was at North Melbourne, where the lamentable
Port team, by beautiful kicking, ran away from the
topnotch locals, and won by 72 to 57. North’s
kicking deserved what it got, anyhow—six goals 21
behinds to Port’s 11 goals six behinds. The previous
evening this Port team had been overhauled by the
Ass, investigators on account of its previous week’s
prizefight, otherwise match, with Brighton, one of its
members being in consequence disqualified for six
weeks and another for two years, while a Brightonian
was suspended for four weeks. Also, a Northcote
stousher was hung up for eight weeks. Judging
by Saturday’s play, the effect of these penalties was
distinctly good.
* * * *
Australia doesn’t really know the meaning
of cash as applied to the pursuit of inflated leather.
Imagine the attacking department of a local team
costing £7525! Yet that’s the amount Blackburn
Rovers have paid to build up
the best Soccer forward line in
Fogland. It handed out £2500
for Dawson, its crack centre;
Simpson and Shea, on the
right wing, ran away with
£4OOO ; Hodkinson, on the
other wing, caused it to part
with a further £1000; but it
obtained his team mate, the
wonderful Latherton, for a
modest £25. After this wild
outrush of cash the backs were
really, cheap. The most ex-
pensive only cost £125. One
was got for £3O and another
for £2O. In fact, the greatest
back of them all —Crompton—
captain and the great Fogland
International, didn’t cost a
single penny. The team merely
caught him young and trained
him and that, after all, is the correct way to obtain
players.
Hoofball outrages are no longer confined 1o
English-speaking countries. They are also made in
Germany. An English teafn, having defeated the
Pforzheim Kiekerklub at Stuttgart ,by five gaols to
nil in an Association- match, were attacked by the
enemy and their barrackerblokes whilst leaving the
ground. The English goalkeeper had h'is head dam-
aged by a brolly; another player was injured by a
stone. Also the manager of the team was felled and
robbed of £l5. Even in their sportzgebangen the
Germans are practical people. They combine pizness
mit bleasure. Thusfar it has never occurred to an
Australian crowd to rob the manager of the winning
team of £ls;’
A Churehes-only League in athletics is
not altogether a new thing, but it is doubtful if,
outside of Adelaide, one could be found restricted to
a particular sect. The holy city has a “Churches of
Christ Football Association.” It recalls James
Payn’s story of the Swedish lady who had translated
one of his novels into her language. “There was
just ; one expression I was not sure about,” she told
him afterwards. “It was your ‘Christy minstrels.’
I made it ‘minstrels of Christ.’ That is the idea,
is it not?”
* * * *
Over 15,000 people were crammed into the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, to watch Jeff
Smith and Jimmy Clabby battle for the Middle-
weight Championship of the world, when the voice
of Clement, curate or reader for the establishment,
breathed that Smith weighed list. 2flb. and Clabby
lOst. 1331 b. On appearance one would have thought
the difference greater, as Clabby looked slight and
fragile alongside the more stockriy built Smith. The
latter carries his weight on his chest and shoulders,
while Clabby’s is deposited around his understand-
ings. Clabby had a distinct advantage in reach.
The fight - was. a better one to watch than to
write about. It was absorbingly clever, and seemed
to last no time. But on account of the immense
amount of work done at close quarters —head to
head, in fact —the finer points were not visible to
any but those who had the good fortune to be close
to the ring-side. It was in the close fighting that
Smith scored his best. For the first two rounds
Clabby was easily the more versatile in both attack
and defence, and he was the attacking party.
Smith seemed very disinclined to lead. Clabby hit
faster and twice as hard. They had met before in
a 10-round no-decision match at New York; but
still Smith could not remember how to avoid a hor-
rible right chop that Clabby began to get home.
By the end of the second round Smith realised the
battle was going against him, and in the third he
treated the audience to a display of twisting and
ducking that made it gasp. By the end of that round
he had evolved a defence for that right chop. Either
it fell on his glove or it landed on his left shoulder
and glided harmlessly to the neck. Smith strove
to get to close quarters and deal out body blows
and upper cuts. But Clabby, too, could dodge, and
Smith found him as elusive as a fairy god-mother.
And still his blows were twice as hard as Smith’s.
In the fifth Clabby seemed to fall off somewhat.
He sent in harder, heavier blows, as though looking
for a knock-out; and Smith made him miss horribly.
After every series of misses Smith would bore in and
deal out punishment at close quarters. For the first time
in the fight Smith began to prevail quite distinctly.
In the sixth he decided he had found himself and
his enemy, and he came out with a Gaby-like glide
from his corner and attacked with a subdued, well-
controlled cold fury and a lightning-like left. Clabby
back-stepped and aimed a couple that would have
stopped an elephant. They didn’t stop Smith, as he
was not there, but immediately the blows missed he
was there, and Mr. Clabby could not help being
aware of the fact. Smith started the seventh even
more aggressively. But it was Clabby’s chance to
show some ducking; he made Smith miss by a mile,
and Clabby caught hitn a few short right chops that
hurt. Still, the way Smith bent with tiie storm must
have robbed the blows of much of their sting. In
the 10th Smith developed a Stone-like straight left
which found its mark every time. Once he hit
Clabby’s beautiful nose three times running and sent
all his blows wild. Clabby felt them, and, crowding
in, smashed and walloped like a devil touched witli
ice; but Smith dodged and smothered, and when
Clabby sent along a rfeally dangerous one, his adver-
sary was elsewhere. In the 12th Clabby almost won.
Smith was struggling to get to close quarters when
Clabby landed a right smasher that caused Smith’s
knees to give way, and he clung desperately for
safety. In vain Clabby tried to shake him off to
finish him. He could not. Harald Baker had to
tear them apart, and then Smith smothered so effect-
ively that Clabby could not deliver the Roman
stroke.
That was Clabby’s last hope of victory. He tried
to finish it in the 13th, but Smith foiled his most
vimful attacks, and when the blizzard passed Smith's
splendid condition enabled him to bore right in and
score at close quarters. So quickly did he recuperate that
WASTED WALLOP.
Jeff Smith and Clabby , each too [?] for the
other. (X in each case marks the spot where
the other should have been. The gentleman who
hasn't been to the barber's is Clabby.)
in the 14th he came out and attacked dabby from the
jump, and got home repeatedly with the straight left.
In the 15th Clabby got in a few right chops, one of
which made Smith’s nose bleed slightly. But it
was always the same. Any advantage Clabby might
gain in the long-range fighting Smith neutralised
before the end of the round by getting in dlose
and giving it all back at short range. And, what
counted most in his favor, he made Clabby miss
again and again. This writer has a prejudice against
this close-in, head-to-head fighting; but it is quite
legal, although it is infernally ugly. And as it was
Smith’s strong suit, he was wise to fight that sway.
The most amazing thing about him is the manner
ih which he can evade blows at such short range.
Nothing like it was ever before seen in the Stadium.
It impressed everyone who was close enough to see
it. Clabby fought very desperately in the two last
rounds, but although he did all he knew he failed
to make much impression, and when the gong
sounded “cease fighting” Harald Baker unhesitatingly
placed his hand on Smith’s head.
As usual, the experts were divided. The points in
favor of Smith were those he gained for his clever
elusiveness. Summed-up, it amounted to this. Clabby
attacked, and after the third round his attack was
in the main repulsed. Smith, having repulsed, made
counter-attacks at close quarters, where much of his
best work was quite invisible except td those fairly
close round the ring. Clabbv’s free and more open
style of fighting is distinctly more attractive and
impressive than Smith’s. In the main, Smith fought
a defensive fight. It was the battle with Eddie
McGoorty over again, and, as in that famous scrap,
there was mighty little between them. This writer’s
first impression was that Clabby should have re-
ceived the verdict; but, after a brief examination
of the notes of each round, inclined to the belief
that, if there was any margin, it was Smith’s. It
was a splendid fight to watch, but, all the same,
this must be stressed: it was far from being a
decisive battle. There is at present no indisputable
middleweight champion, and the crown seems to sit
very insecurely on the statuesque head of Mr. Jeffries
Smith.
(Continued on page 36.)


My Scientific Exercises are
Short Guts to Better Health.
Every movement in my POSTAL
COURSE OF HEALTH AND STRENGTH
EXERCISES is prescribed for the good
reason that it will effect improvement
rapidly and permanently.
By careful study of your individual
physical shortcomings, a simple, yet scien-
tific, course will be prescribed specially for
you.
The excellent results my pupils are gain-
ing are proof of the efficiency of my methods.
Read these letters :
“I have improved greatly in strength and
health since I have taken on your Physical
Culture lessons. They are easily understood,
and I find it a great pastime; please send the
next section.”
T.H.S., Spotswood, Vic.
“I feel much stronger and better in every
way since I started your course. I thank you
most sincerely for bringing me better health.
I will always recommend your postal course
to my friends.”
H.L.S., Warwick, Q’sland.
M
Full particulars of my system, fees, etc., are given in my handsome 48-page
Booklet, “Health and Strength from Self Culture.” You ought to write for a copy.
Kindly send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER.
Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
MY CIGARILLOS
ARE SMALL CIGARS.
; i
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
Put up in three sizes, as illus-
trated, and, being of excep-
tional QUALITY, they are
ideal short smokes
—s ometh ing be-
tween a pipe oi-
cigar, yet more than
a cigarette. Try a
sample lot, and you
will always smoke
them.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/- 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
4/9 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
9/- 8/- h-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 us t rated
Catalog-
Post Free.
A. M. SOLOMON
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
send 3d. in stamps to The J.
B. Williams Co.,
Box 98 G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
1
AH' Wideawake
Chemists sell It.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book- CURES Write for Book.
AUSTRIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
o* GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on “ Singleton’s* —refuse all substitutes.
AVIATION.
fl. GUILLAUX,
like
H. G. HAWKER,
G. HAMEL,
and all famous Aviators,
pins his faith to
“SHELL”
BENZINE
All Men Like Rigney Shoes
Some because they are always correct and
comfortable, others because they have snap
and style. Rigney Shoes will please you in
all respects. ;■
The illustration shows a Choice Willow Calf
Derby Shoe, Fine-stitched Welts, Perforated
Vamp, Lace Face and Cap.
22|6 and 25|-
In Black or Tan.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a copy of our Catalog,
M
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors," _ «
317 George Street and 179 a Pitjt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“ Yes, Sir!
HYPOL, Means Health.”
i
, . • - .
:
■
■. . .
mzn *;/*#¥' m
*? \ • ;
“HYPO L,” tHe Famous Emulsion for
CHest Complaints and Wasting Disorders.
Write NO
erns of our
Special
“Albi
|!
All-VVooI
unequalled in
—each pattern
ofar t- weaving
and.Jßiqwns
*a purchase ri\
IDeal & /er made .ill' A'
foi
of
e
u
T
ee
uatl^ta.n-Made
he Biggest Singly
ian Tweeds by-#
A.
Victorian Tailoring Fir* »i? Because we bough* ;
%*■ bough/ at; e/ceptionktly..‘ v faYOrabie
figures and we are NOW enabled to offer yqd
%
A -Suit - Worth' ’ $5, Ss#fe
Order for 70s. Mf!
|Wi^sr'
v vTbe.Tailoringqf the Garment*' ./liM.
Vfbrkmanship, insidearid outiVcpm
th under pur famous Guarantee, that “;We: ydll • 'W<
-v-" Refund Money in full if we Fail to Satisfy.'’,'
"■ )••• 'v//.y, .-/// :
”'j/$ Suit will be finished within days from
of order. We/U; send/ it ' your
Fre,ight,;Paidi
ji:;m [
m
Samples, with our New fcataiog,
are Gratis and Post Free.
The Offer it for a Limited Period Only.
Write —To-day
Lincoln, Stuart i t
“Outfitters by Mail,”
244-254 Flinders St., Melbourne.
, }


I'or Sale.
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY
2200
AC'I!FS, rich agricultural and sheep-grazing
land, 110 acres cleared, 1200 acres rung, in
rainfall of 17in , 90 miles from Perth, W.A. Only
eight miles from railway siding. Abundance of feed
and water. Will carry 500 sheep at present. Price
is £lOOO. Terms are £2OO cash, balance to suit
purchaser. Further particulars from—
HATCH BROS.,
Stock and Station Agents,
Brookton, Western Australia.
Business Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke ” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
I
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT '
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No househ >ld should be without it.
For ECZEIVU, PILES, CALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints.
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO..
Sole IVhol sale Agents,
127. York Street, Sydney.
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826')
only Per fecit Cleanser
for Artificial Teeth
DENSO
There’s nothing; like it—-people every-
where are praising DENSO.
DENSO quickly renders the plate sweet,
clean, healthful'; brightens the teeth, pre-
serves the gold, and is a perfect boon
to heavy smokers. Plates also fit better,
more corn.ortably after using DENSO.
If in doubt send Id. for postage on FREE
Sample. [1
Post Free in the
Commonwealth.
J. M. WILKES S CO.
1/6, 2/6 Box.
Alphing'ton, Melb.
Victoria, Australia.
“I never
scratch.’’
A turn of the head to
theleft controls the flow
of ink, fast or slow,
according to your hand-
writing. A turn to the
right shuts off the, ink,
and the Onoto becomes
a sealed tube, safe to
carry at any angle.
And, above all, the
Onoto fills itself—in-
stantly—from any ink
supply. Nothing could
be less trouble than the
Onoto—the oae really
satisfactory self-filling
OV)
°1
Miss Simplicity.
fountain pen. Make it your pen to day. You
can always p>ick a nib to suit your handwriting.
Onoto
the pen—never scratches.
Price, 15/- and upwards, of all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Stores, Booklet about the Onoto Pen free on
application to THOS. OK LA RUE CO , Ltd.,
175, Bunhill Row, London, E.C., or the Australasian
Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Ask lor Onoto Ink— Best for all Pens.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.'
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE FILLS, NON-
APERIEXT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or u Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
A NEW REXOPHONE
M
Price,
55/-
(In New Zealand
The “CLINKER
1914
Model
SIZE: 13 Vz x 13 % x inches.
The Keynote of the Rexophone is Quality
and it is fully maintained in this new model. The Real Oak
Cabinet, Full-size NECK Taper Arm, Strong, Reliable
Motor, and the latest model A 1 Soundbox are
QUALITY RIGHT THROUGHOUT,
The Reproduction of the “CLINKER” Rexophone excels in
volume and tone that of any other hornless machine of the
same size.
■} REXOPHONE TALKING MACHINES range in price from
the “BUTE,” at 37/6 (the only reliable talking machine sold
at a low price), to the magnificent “RICHMOND,” at £lO.
Ask for our Interim 1914 Catalogue, which fully describes
these.
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
457 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
M
DEVELOP YOUR MOUSTACHE
You owe it to yourself to make your appearance as attractive as possible.
A smart, well-trimmed moustache will certainly help towards that end.
CAPILLARINE
is a splendid moustache-grower. Never fails to give good results—does
not injure the skin—cannot be detected in use. Apply ; at night before
retiring. You will be delighted with the result.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Dinnefqrds]
Magnesia !
IijmZHITJpKI
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In nonsequencs
of numerous imi-
tatious purchasers
must sec the name
“DSWULFJRD'S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections
A BARGAIN IN BIOSCOPES
Why Not Make Money at Pictures?
Beard’s Latest
Improved Bioscope
Complete with Tank anti Basket Limelight Jet, Retort Saturator and all
Accessories, ready for immediate showing, for
£4O CASH
(USUALLY V
£6O )
REMEMBER—This is a Complete Picture Plant
and can be used in a Hull or in the Home. We have only four of these
outfits, and they are sure to go quickly. Inclusive with the purchasing
of these outfits we will teach you operating free, personally or by post.
JERDAN’S
CINEMATOGRAPH
* EXPERTS,
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
"The Blinded Heathen” : While the Aus-
tralian military Scotchman is fighting des-
perately for naked knees, news arrives that
the fashionable nudity-mad Parisienne has
cut away her bodice till there is barely enough
to hold the country, together above the place
where the waist-line used to be. This sug-
gests a last desperate remedy for the hare-
leg trouble which threatens to make the Aus-
tralian army look like a job-lot of other
nations’ cast-offs. Give the Australian
Scotchman his sarong, or whatever it is, but
only on the condition that he also wears a
Y-shaped tunic-bodice and bares his hairy
chest to the battle and the breeze as well as
his legs. If he accepts, the only thing left
will be to provoke war with somebody and
go out in a welter of gore.
“Jeaiues” :
Most self-made millionaires fail miserably to look
tile part. They are often small and slinking and
self-conscious. Many of them wear large, benevolent
spectacles. 1 once saw a self-made millionaire in
goloshes, reading the World's Nrcws. Had 1 not
known who he was 1 should have summed him up as
an unfrocked parson. No such error is possible in
the case .of John Brown, of Newcastle (N.S.W.).
lie fairly radiates energy, and arrogance, and aggres-
sive courage, and strength of will and body, and the
joy of being alive and rich and a winner.
1 know only the externals of John Brown, but from
them diagnose the following characteristics, lie loves
to be pointed out reverently as John Brown. Whether
the reverence is <that which wealth usually commands,
or whether it is the, reverence of impotent hatred (the
sort which convulses the bosom of the small punter
whose fancy has been belatedly scratched) is, to
Brown, of little consequence, lie would have made
an enterprising and successful soldier or buccaneer
or highwayman. In the quiet paths of trade his
natural courage and dash and resolution have prob-
ably undergone degeneration. Virile aggressiveness
atroohies in this type of man into an ’obstinate erase
for having his own way. One finds it equally in the
millionaire and in the small haberdasher who Storms
the house down if his wife buys Uhina tea when he
lias ordered her to supply Ceylon, and who would tear
the jugular vein out of an employee rather than have
him dust a doormat in a, hew fashion. Brown is
frugal. In any case the spending of money would
ffjve him no pleasure. lie has not the sybarite’s
appearance. Comfort, good food and wine, and
luxurious living would mean little, to one of his build
and training. It is the acquisition of wealth that he
cares for: and, above everything, the opportunities
if gives him for fights, lie would die if he had to
stoo work, for to stop work would mean social peace,
and to Brown death would gome as a wlecome re-
lease from the horror of being at peace with the
world.
At Brunswick (Vic.) the other morning
the Law gave a decision that is liable to
lead to trouble if it is made a precedent. The
matter concerned a dog, which Blivins said
was his. pet Pido, given him by a dear friend
in its infancy, and nurtured and cherished
from youth up. Stivins. on the contrary,
swore it was his Toby, which he himself had
bred and loved like a brother. “However,”
he concluded, “the justices need not concern
themselves about the animal, as it died three
weeks ago. He knew where it was buried,
and would produce it if necessary.” The
beaks took a serious view of the case, and
ordered Stivins to return the dog within
seven days; and it is to be hoped Stivins
respected the La,w and carried out the order.
What Blivins thought when he got his Fido
hack is another matter.
“Whitehall” recalls misspent days:—
An interesting experiment is being made at Oxford.
A number of University professors, dons, fellows,
tutors and undergraduates have banded themselves ■
together in an assault upon the demon Credit.
They will open a co-operative store in which the
profits will go to the shareholders and all sales will
be on a cash basis. More spe *!thrifts than enough
have been created by the immemorial system that
is being assailed. During an undergraduate’s first
year he has to use an axe to induce any shop-
keeper to accept ready mpney for anything. This is
highly gratifying. to the newly-emancipated school-
boy, who finds that his £4OO per annum, or whatever
it is, goes wonderfully far when merely used as
pocket money. Things are almost as bright the next
year, though towards the end of it a restive ten-
dency is observable among the smaller traders. The
third and fourth years—particularly if the heavy
debtor is of a financially obscure family—are dread-
ful. The tradesmen hardly ever fall in. The cere-
mony of paying off young William’s Oxford debts
is one of the commonest unpleasantnesses of the
Upper Middle-class British family. The only under-
graduates who habitually let their creditors in are
the Indians, Africans and other colored folk who
are here to-day, so to sneak, imbibing Darning,
alcohol, etc., in the Norfolk jacket of civilisation,
and gone to-morrow into the miasmatic recesses of
some tronieal jungle where there is no County
Court. But the Oxford tradesmen make up for tie
subtle villainies of these unscrupulous savages by
sicking it vigorouslv into the wretched Caucasian
who has nowhere to flee to but a country town where
he and his are as well known as the local railway
station, and hence easily writtable. To these helpless
ones bills are presented, with exorbitant interest added.
There is a classic story of a pair of silk socks
that were missed in an Oxford haberdashery at stock-
taking. “Charge one pair to all our credit customers,’’
said the proprietor debonairly. Theoretically the
fib 9 who hadn’t had the socks would write men-
tioning the shop’s error. In practice, as the trader
and his co-conspirators well knew, not 5 Der cent,
would bother to examine their accounts in detail.
These gre some of the reasons why the biggest ae-
countst»at the Old Bank in the High are in the names
of tobacconists, wine-merchants and shirt-makers.
If the new co-operative society gets really going it
should hit this class hard. But the chances are it
never will. Unlimited credit is a more alluring
thing to the young than either Drink or the love of
women.
If Premier Watt wants to find a small
job for some of the Melbourne unemployed
he can instruct the Lands Department to re-
store the old “Grange” property at the corner
of the Domain and St. Kilda roads to the
public park from which it was stolen in the
misty past. About two years' ago Watt
stated in the House that the Government
had purchased this triangle from its private
owner for the purpose of adding it to the
South Yarra Domain. But nothing has been
done in the matter. The old Grange en-
closures remain as before; cows and horses
graze on the fenced-in paddocks; and a
cricket club has its private niteh on the pro-
perty. It is as though the Watt Government
had bought (lie freehold in order to keep
somebody in possession.
“Kuscobin” ; The perjuring woman again.
Mary Couzens could not resist the tempta-
tion to describe to the magistrate at Manaia
(M.L.) the other day that her wedding in
London was one of the most swagger ever
seen in that village. This was apropos of
her application for an affiliation order
against a local councillor who, she declared,
had been unduly kind to her while her hus-
band was on a visit to England. But, when
under cross-examination she admitted that
the marriage story was all a fake and that
she was a single woman, the Court held that
it was odds-on that the rest of her yarn Avas
a fake. too. and dismissed the case. Under
the Woman’s Rights and Privileges Act no
mention was made about putting the damsel
on trial for perjury.


Avoid Disappointment by Ordering your Electric Motors Now
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC GO. (U.S.A.) and the
BRITISH THOMSON HOUSTON GO. LTD.,
| Rugby, England,
Stock all Sizes
up to 50 H.P.,
both for A.C.
or D.C. Circuit.
•' «; j
•V'>w
M
These motors are excellently designed—built of the best materials in modern workshops—
by skilled workmen, and are noted for Reliability, High Efficiency, Durability, High
Overload Capacity, Economy of Operation —and recognised as representing the
Standard lor quality in Electric Motors.
They are Subjected to Severe Tests and Examinations before Despatch.
gfrrelWfr*
n
Melbourne
©Little Collins Sts
Cor
Street
S
dne
31T Clarence
ueen
The Bi
*ll # g*
v^iilCl
represents the very latest in
OIL ENGINES,
and intending Buyers would do well to inspect same before placing their orders elsewhere.
M
Made to our own specification from the very best materials, the 44 BIG CHIEF”
is without a rival for both ——
QUALITY and PRICE.
These Engines are hopper cooled and fitted with Wizard Magneto and regular Pulley, Extended Crank Shaft,
attachment for Kerosene as well as Benzine; Tools, and all usual accessories.
POSITIVELY A HANDSOME PAYING PROPOSITION for FARM, STATION or FACTORY
Send for Catalog giving full particulars, including A FIVE YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
EXCEPTIONALLY LIBERAL TERMS, or Discount for Cash.
R. L. SCRUTTON <& CO. LTD.
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE THE BEST ENGINES ARE SOLD .


An UNUSUAL
CHANCE TO
SAVE
Even from far away Fiji we have had
orders from people who recognised the
singular chance to save on goods of the
highest quality, at this sale. We had to
hold the sale to adjust accounts owing
to the death of our senior partner, and
offered the whole of our magnificent
stock without exception at
Half-Marked Prices.
Naturally such a genuine economy event
met with instant and great response.
Here is Another
List of Savings.
If what you require is not here, write
and ask us for prices and particulars.
M
E.P. Hot Water
Jug, handsomely en-
graved, useful size.
Was £2/18/- NOW
£1/9/- -
Very Best Qual-
ity E.P.N.S. Hot
Water Jug, quite (
plain. Very handsome
Shape. Uusually
. £3/18/- Now '
£1/19/-
A 11 E.P. Hot
Water Jug, plain
b a c k g r o und with
floral border. Was £2/8/- Now £1/4/-
Plain E.P. Hot Water Jug, new design
and very strong and well made. Was £3/7/6.
Now £1/13/9.
w*
giiiUiiiiwi*" 1
A 11 E.P.N.S.
Sugar Basin,
quite plain, very
handsome. W a s
£2/10/- Now
£l/5/-
Very Dainty
EJP.N.S. Sugar
Basin, with han-
dle and sifter, gill
lining. Usually
36/- Now 18/*
E.P. Sug a r
Scuttle, very
good quality, quite
plain, with headed edge and scoop. Usually
£2/15/- Now £l/7/6.
Dainty All E.P. Sugar Scuttle, hand-
somely embossed, oval design, with scoop, gilt
lining. Price was 38/- Now 19/-
Gootl Quality E.P. Teapot, handsomely
embossed and fluted. Was £3/6/- Now
£l/13/-
Full Size Teapot, plain, with raised
“Adams” design. Usually £2/2/- Now
£l/17-
E.P. Teapot, with raised floral design, very
serviceable. Was 37/6. Now 18/9.
Best Quality E.P.N.S. Afternoon Tea
Set, 3 pieces, Teapot, Sugar and Cream. Quite
plain" “James” design. Was £6/12/- Now
£3/6/-
Very Dainty Afternoon Tea Set,
pieces, floral engraving, gilt lining. Usuallv
£4/4/-. Now £2/2/-
Haridsome E.P. Tea and Coffee Ser-
vice, 4 pieces, Coffee, Teapot, Sugar and Cream.
Neat design. Was £6/15/- Now £3/7/6.
4-piece Solid E.P.N.S. Tea and Coffee
Service, large size, best quality, Queen Anne
Pattern, ebony handles. Was £l6. Now
£B.
ORDER BY POST. —Our competent piaihorder.
staff will give your request prompt and careful
attention. We guarantee perfect satisfaction—
if you are not entirely satisfied,- return your
purchase and we will refund all money paid.
Flavelle, Roberts &
Sankey Ltd.,
150 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Novel Method for
Waving' the Hair.
TOILET TALKS.
MANY a charming face is spoiled by
straight, lank, and excessively greasy
hair. Naturally curly hair gives a most
delightful effect even to a plain face, a fact
which has unfortunately been known for
many years. This knowledge alone has re-
sulted in the ruination of thousands of heads
of beautiful hair by slow torture from that
terrible instrument, the curling iron. Im-
agine, if you can, how the living hair squirms
and twists under such treatment. Yet this
is the very result you aim at. Well, I have
no doubt that each one individually is of the
opinion that the results justify
the meas, but let me tell you
that the reckoning will have to
be paid, and in a manner which
will be far from pleasant. The
twists and curls created by the
hot iron are the hairs’ dying con-
tortions, and it is only a question
of time when you will have no
hair left to torture. If it is
absolutely necessary to have
wavy hair, then there is a far
more simple and harmless pro-
cess which any woman may
adopt without fear as to the
results. Get from your chemist
two ounces of silmerine, and
pour about two tablespoonfuls into a saucer.
With a clean toothbrush apply this to the
hair upon retiring. You will be quite
amazed at the result, and one application
will last for many days. Damp weather
need have no terrors for you if you take
these simple precautions, and straight, wispy
tails will be converted into tight little curls,
giving a charming and pretty effect, even to
a plain face.
Note. —Silmerine has not been used to any
extent for this purpose, but most chemists
keep a small supply in stock.
NOW about shampoos. Is it reasonable
to expect that one particular make will
suit everybody V Certainly not. Some
M
folks have dry and brittle hair, others have
tresses which are excessively greasy. Each
requires a different grade of'shampoo, if one
is to obtain the best results. The writer’s
notice was recently brought to a substance
called stallax, which can be obtained from
most chemists. It consists of small gran-
ules. which, when mixed with a cup of hot
water, make the most- charming mixture
imaginable for shampooing the hair. Ac-
cording to the quantity used, so the strength
is graduated to suit all conditions. There
is one drawback, however, and that is stallax
can only be obtained in ilb. tins,
which cost about half-a-crowh,
but as this quantity is sufficient
to make 25 to 3tJ shampoos, it
is really very economical in the
end. It leaves the hair a little
too -wavy and fluffy for some
tastes, but this can always lie
avoided bv rubbing a little olive
oil on the scalp previous to its
application.
creams may not be out o f
place, and at the risk of being
put down as a little old-fash-
ioned, my advice on this subject
is to leave well alone. Do not
clog the pores with greasy concoctions
which not only prevent the skin from
performing its proper functions, but
usually result in encouraging a growth
of hair on the face, and you know
very well what that means —disfigure-
ment for the rest of your natural days.
If it is necessary to use an emollient at
all, get some mercolised wax from your
chemist and apply in the usual way.
This remarkable substance seems to absorb
the worn and weatherbeaten outer cuticle,
and in a few days’ time the new, healthy
skin underneath peeps forth in all its
brilliance, and is, of course, quite free from
imperfection or blemish.
Choose a “Swan.”
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness—each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer—those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy, such . and win.
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
■
The
SWAM SAFETY
Can’t Leak,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch !
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE^S
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
M
TO-DAY particular thought should be
given to one’s shoes. Definite purpose
and not caprice should rule their
choice, since Fashion recognises their dress
value and insists that they shall harmonise
with the rest of one’s attire. Thus, by fol-
lowing the lead of Fashion, a very distinctive
and pleasing note can be attained. Bostocks
are designed for wear with the newest
toilettes; they are exclusive in style and the
cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments- have recently arrived at
the leading stores, and ladies should call
before the choicest styles' are sold.
A
M
* 6
M
wm
i
10
i
808
Style 593
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
WELMAR
SHIRT
Pat 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers
* and —•
Outfitters
M
Manufactured by
WELCH, MARGETSON& Co.
■o vm •=•
*'4Arrj inv^'°
OR MILK
. ,c*
J H4O^
It is easy to make and re>
quires no cooking, and its re-
sults are marvellous.
As a liquid Health Food
and Drink in one, it is un-
rivalled.
Thousands of Australians
are taking it, and find it gives
them health and vigour. It is
delicious to taste, and inex-
pensive and easily digested.
All ages take it, and find it
gives and maintains health.
Ask for Horlick’s at the
, , Soda Fountain. . .
HORLICKS
MALTED MUK
“B.B.” : There will be the devil to pay in
the Church directly. Not long ago a parson urged
the congregation to be jolly and bright in the House
ot God, and now a Maoriland shepherd is raising
his shout on behalf of horse-racing. Said he re-
cently : “He believed in sport, and considered that
in a few years trotting races would become so popu-
lar that Alexandra Park would not hold the crowds
who desired to attend. He said that with a growing
Sport it was the duty of the clergy to see that it'
grew according to the right standard. It rmist be
kept clean. The future of racing did not depend so
much on improving the breeding of horses at it did
on the improvement in the character of the racing,
man. Once get him to understand that a good name
was better than riches, and there would not be much
‘crooked running.’ ” In the halcyon days to come
the newspapers will report race-meetings something
like this: —-
CHRISTIAN HANDICAP.—Bro. John Smith’s br.
g. EXODUS, by Genesis—Leviticus, 6 years., lOst.
51b. (Johnnie Small), 1 ; Bro. Paul Brown’s ch. in.
HOSANNAH, bv Morning—Evening, aged, lOst. 21b.
(Ararat Noah Wilk), 2 ; Bro. Gabriel Spiles’s br. f.
THRIPPENCE, by Plate —Cadger, aged, lOst. (Cheru-
bim O’Blister), 3. The punters favored Thrippence,
and the best that could be got about him from the
betting pulpits of Rev. Aaron Moses was evens. But
money is the root of all evil. It corrupteth the
pure and rnaketh them to rage like unto the heathen.
I’m even expecting to see a Particular Baptist
parson doing the turkey tango with the choir girls
at Bro. Michael Joseph s spiritual tabernacle in Syd-
ney —the Imperial Salon de Frivol.
“Wizard” Stone, who was to have started
last Saturday from Melbourne to Sydney with an
“aerial mail,” came a bad smash on Monday week
when trying out his monoplane. His aerial mail is
thereby indefinitely postponed. Stone’s first appear-
ance in Sydney was under the management of J. D.
Williams when that meteoric person was running the
Six Days Cycle Race at Sydney Cricket Ground.
He thrilled people by riding a motor-bike round the
inside of a trellised steel sphere known as the “Globe
of Death.” Later on he did a considerable amount
of aviation on a rather large monoplane, and aston-
ished the natives at various places in N.S.W. and
Queensland. A few weeks ago he was raising the
national hair by driving a motor-bike round a saucer
made of battens at the White City. He had previously
raised the Yankee hair by these and other exhibi-
tions calculated to give a man the nightmare: He
must be absolutely devoid of fear and giifted with
supreme self-confidence. Sad to say, at time of
writing, he is in a rather bad way, and struggling
with the hardest job of his career.
Reichenbach, the overlanding cyclist who
left his companion at Charlotte Waters', had a thrill-
ing time crossing the Finke River, which he found
in flood. Trying to ford the river the bike was
swept away. Reich got ashore and started down the
bank after the bike. When he recovered it, he had
to push it for about 20'miles, as'the country near
the Finke was submerged. But on May' 28, at noon,
lie struggled into Alice Springs, in the centre of the
Continent and telegraphed his report. He had cov-
ered 1013 miles, and’ was feeling better, than when
he started. On May 30 he rode into Barrow Creek
telegraph station, having fled over nearly 200 miles
in two days. This sprint brought him up to Mac-
donald’s time, and he left for 'Tenant' Creek', 180 '
miles further on in great hopes of establishing a
new record. He made a good run to Tennant’s
Creek, covering the 180 miles in two days. But
there his good luck deserted him, for on the run to
Powell Creek he got bushed and wandered 80 miles
off his track. However, he managed to strike the
telegraph line again, 'and . as his rations had given
out he had more than glory to urge him on. On
Wednesday, June 3, he reached Powell Creek Station,
and was then, in spite of his lost time, six hours
ahead of the record. lie had at that point covered
1487 miles from Adelaide in 201 days, and his
schedule allowed him eight days in which to cover
the remaining 553 miles between Powell Creek and
Darwin. The marvel of the performance, so far, is
that when last heard from he had not only gained
six hours on Macdonald’s time, but had made up the
39 hours he was behind when he arrived in the
Macdonnell Ranges.
The richest motor-car race in the world,
the gorgeous Indianapolis “500,” the fourth of the
series, was again won by a French car —a Delage
this time, driven by an Englishman named Thomas.
Last year it was taken by J. Goux for France ; the
first and second years it went to the U.S.A. No less
than 27 cars competed this year, and Thomas howled
over the 500 miles on the 21-mile track in the
record time of 6hr. 3min. 45sec., which is equal,
roughly, to 82J miles an hour. A wonderful perform-
ance considering the crowded state of the track, and
three miles jier hour faster than the best time last
year! The second place was filled by Duray on a
Peugeot light car, the smallest in the race, fitted
with only a four-cylinder engine. Guyot, the famous
French driver, was third, in another Delage, so it
was a veritable triumph for the French makers. The
popular favorite was the great specially-built Sun-
beam car, but at time of writing there is rno word
as to how that wonderful machine fared. The “500”
.is worth winning, and the victor gets away with
prizes and bonuses worth in English money £7000.
Providence is having a series of practical
jokes at the expense of Australian cyclists, Munro,
Kirkham and co. in France and Belgium. The Tour
de Belgium was a series of accidents funny to read
of but no good to endure. Kirkham was racing
alongside a six-feet drain—and fell into' it. His
machine was bent, so Kirkham scrambled out and
jumped on it several times till he got it straightened,
and then went after the bunch. Just as he overtook
the' leaders the frame snapped and Kirkham got
another buster, so bad a one that he liad to retire.
Then Piereey came to grief when passing through a
. railway crossing. A policeman’s horse kicked out,
and putting his hoof through the back wheel, ripped
the spokes out of it and nearly broke Piercey’s
ankle. The playful neddie then turned round and
put the other hoof through Snell’s wheel, and he had
to retire. Bell Was so intent watching this humorous
beast that he .inadvertently -ran over a rock and came -
a cropper, which damaged his wrist, so that he had
to quit. Only three, Kirkham, Munro and Snell,
were able to compete in the Paris-Bordeaux race,,
and they all got run over, fell off, blew out, or met
with some other misfortune which compelled them to
retire. They apparently... find Europe somewhat
crowded.
A Queensland lacrosse team Is in Sydney;
and on Saturday last the tail-end of it played the
Petersham Federals. The visitors started well, and
showed excellent stick-work. So did the locals.
But, all the same, in a few minutes Queensland had
scored first blood. Then the Northerners froze, and
the local team scored twice .in the first quarter. At
half-time Petersham had a lead of four to two. After
that the Northern team lost heart; it never scored
again, while. Petersham added one, and so'got out
with five, goals to two.
•The John Young-Shield—the outward and
visible sign of winter supremacy in Sydney bowls—
ended in a surprisingly easy victory for Randwick
' over Petersham by 95 points to 69. ■ The brethren’
from the horsey' suburb were' in' great fettlfe, and
raked in three out of four rinks with apparent ease.
The in ter-’Varsity eight-oar race at Ade-
laide on 'Saturday ended in an easy win for Mel-
bourne by a street of water, with the local men just
too good for Sydney'for second place. The record
now stands: Races rowed, 27; Sydney, 13 wins;
Melbourne, 11 ; Adelaide, three; But Melbourne’s
fine record in the last four tussles is something for
the Watt Staters to enthuse over.
* * * *
The English summer of .this year seems
to be as moist as the last Australian Eleven found it.
On May 25 the Launceston Examiner headed its
cabled report of the county matches thus: “Aauatics.
Matches in England.”


«>, A
IT
P
*}
\
£«e
-i
*j::>
S' ' -
, s
Sit
/yy\
f* - *
r • - ""
r
'
I i. £*•
St. 4
m*
'Awm-m.
r v
v t, f ymt
,\V*
»
•f •
g*i«
-s' W' . ’
S&SS
**
**
RAU6 OLD SCOTCH
Sandy on the bushliuid track
Trudges through all kinds of weather;
Things are not the same outback
As at (mine anmng th’ heather.
Tho’ hot a religious Scot,
Kirk is Sandy far from spurning,
And he’s pleased each township’s got
Onp brand snatched from out the
burning.
’Tis the biand that bears his name;
“Hoots! I tell ye, it’s all right, mon!’’
To each friend does he exclaim—
“lt’s the whusky for a white mon!”


Shipping.
Pm and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
*BALLARAT
*BORDA
♦COMMONWEALTH
*BERRIMA
U,l2o]HanBon... June 13|Noon
ll,l2o|Millington July 4 Noon
7,000 Hussey- July 23 Daylight
Cooper
11,120|Hine .. Aug. 15|Noon
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE . . Geared Turbine
ORAMA . .Triple-Screw
ORVIETO . .Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTKS . .
O AIR AII . .
Fitted with Wireless Teleg .
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Rerth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
AIELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO„ Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydnkv.
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000
12,130
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
•aphy. New and luxuri-
)hinking. Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. HALE.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3i% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City' and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; lion A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J, MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE,
Australian Sank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act )
AUTHORISED .. .£2 000 000
SUBSCRIBED £1 198 534
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. .. £1,195 446
RESERVE FUND £35,’000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydnev
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank n'
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the’
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All neiu business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw.
Esq. ; lion. G. TV. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON
HEAD OFFICE ... - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East’
The Colonial mutual rife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6/000,000
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
tiavelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South’ Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
'lhe Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary
Shipping.
]>TORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
imperial mail steamers,
T °snimmi°PTAM EZ ' Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
SOUTH AMP lON. ANTWERP, AND BREMEN.
~ ~ MUCJCDa AXDSLailillylUli.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
I].!;’ £ lf to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111.. £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO., General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
oepu o se
And every 2S days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
♦Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papjete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
M
Twin and Triple-screw Steamers.
*CERAIVJIC, 18,500 tons, about JULY 4.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, about AUG 5.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, about AUG. 26.
♦Largest vessel in Australian trade.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London . . .. 19 0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . ..25 5 0
Melbourne . . . . . . . . 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
HOCK HAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports). J
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4 000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 13.
COOMA (4000 Tons). '
Leaves Melbourne June 17.
Leaves Sydney June 20.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne June 24
Leaves Sydney June 27.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
Full Particulars re
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 13.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney June 20.
Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
SEASONABLE ISLAND TOURS.
.-•*r
With the . advent of the cold weather your are pro-
bably wondering where you can go to escape the
rigors of Winter.
Our ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET will help you
decide this question.
It offers you a SELECTION OF TRIPS to the
more TEMPERATE CLIMES OF THE PACIFIC,
among the most enjoyable being through the
NEW HEBRIDES, with its famous “SING
SING” GROUNDS OF MALEKULA, the ACTIVE
VOLCANOES OF TANNA AND LOPEVI, and
many other SCENES and OBJECTS of ABSORB-
ING INTEREST.
Sand for our special Leaflet detailing .this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTORS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
President.
Thomas P.ucklartd, Esq.
Richard Binnie, .Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle St., E C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New- Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents' and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund . . . . 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
Georgh J. Cohen. Esq... .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. AV. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibus.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South AA’ales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
gank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . . . . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. H. Matthev7s.
Lontlcn Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. '
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
L E ™f A -• I July 4 j Aug-. 29 | Oct. 24 I Dec. 19
sONOMA .. .. j Aug. 1 j Sept. 26 | Nov. 21 j Jan. 16
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. & 0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■pHE Worth Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS ; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND' RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murvvillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. Cd.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?
• look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
M
Lockyer’s "
Hair Restorer, i/e
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 4 and August 1.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WARILDA (8000 tons'),
June 27 and July 25.
Wireless Telegraph}’.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CAN AD lAN-AUS T R A L A SIA N R. M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with eabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry. Electric Lifts, etc.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST HAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM 70 LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (Avonmouth).
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons.
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
CAPTAIN GORDON,
about JUNE 25, 1914.
„ JUNE 30, 1914.
„ JULY 4, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on upper deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins with spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage.
Electric light throughout. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets and full information
apply:—
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.’'
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND POUTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne
Adelaide, West Australia and Fiji.
I .S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T. 5.5. “ KANOWNA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. ‘• KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements' for con-
venience and comfort, making travel safe, easy
and pleasant. After first port of call, First and
Second Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Cov’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see Daily Papers
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STL 'EY, SYDNEY. ’


Hotels. &e.
George hotel,
St. Hilda., Melbourno<
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. it is
tlie most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
1110 spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed'
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
M
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Broun, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22& 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
0000600000
for a fair dinkum go
TRY THE ... i
1*
lEZON
Accordeons
The World's Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LVOM S,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
* V
Bank of Hustralia
1 SYDNEY
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL GANKING BUSINESS at
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Newcastle, Broken Hill, Oubbo, Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide,
erth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
co ectea. Betters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or iorwaraed for
°° e ;?r'V- ““""S au< i Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wea tn, Cmted Ivirigaoni and abroad. Cuirent accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed aeposits.
Aaiances maue against approved securities.
SAVINGS SANK DEPARTMENT
Central Office: 30 CASTLEREAGH STREET (top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may ue made at any Brancn or Agency within tne Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. May, 191/,. DENISON MIDLER. CovisKNOii.
QUEENSLAND,
The V/onderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Deligrhtful Climate, Enchanting: Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
Wilier limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
V,, ® ,: 1 ' 8 a /l? ot , u ‘ l l< ?! lnc l,ed scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
piospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.AV. A. MES’I’ON, Local Director.
THE SHAVE THAT PLEASES.
r nm\
That’s the only kind of shave a man wants. That is the kind he gets
when he uses a
“PLUM” RAZOR—IO/0.
This splendid razor cuts as clean and as smooth as you could wish.
The blade of a “Plum” has always a keen cutting edge, so that satis-
faction results every time it is used. Hundreds have proved the merit
of the “Plum” —why not you ?
SEND FOU ONE TO-DAY—IO 6, Post Free.
We keep it in good order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
A.ll the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITREN
654- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY'
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
20 per cent.
Discount off
Table Plate!
Our experiment of a couple of years ago of
taking the wholesale catalogues of the great
English manufacturers of Electro Silver and
Solid Silver goods and deducting 20%. or
4/- in the £ from their prices, was of a
revolutionary character and might have landed
us in heavy loss; but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so we are
continuing the discount. It only gives us
a bare commission on many lines, but com-
missions count if numerous enough.
1111
Heavily plated on hard
white metal, Candlestick,
6iin. high, 28/6 pair.
Less 20% dis-
count . . 5/9
22/9 pair.
Very heavily-plated on
hard white metal, Candle-
stick, 6Jin. high, 40/- pair.
Less 20% discount, 8/-
32/- pair.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, Ltd.
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash.
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY
HOUSE IN SYDNEY,
23-25 HUNTER STREET
There’s Sauce for you!
Montserrat
Lime Juice Sauce suits
all tastes, and owing to its
purity, adds a zest to food,
without upsetti: g the most
delicate digestion. It helps
your food to feed you.
Jlsk your Slorekeep r for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use . Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/10/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET. SYDNEY.
;
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS*
Egyptian Ilenna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Ilenna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y~u. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardle.v on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia^
CRANES and PULLEY BLOCKS
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris (EL Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment.
mm
\ \
V. ; . ■; ■Mrill
The Quality and Prices are Right.
your Inquiries
Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and BlocKs sent on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
We will send a Pulley Block on approval at our own
expense to any user.
HAES & EGGERS LTD.;
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY


M
THE STETSON VELOUR
3216 Post Free.
This is the finest Hat the world can produce. It will be giving honest
and stylish wear long after the price is forgotten. Made, as only Stetsons
can make them, from the purest fur and finished with the highest quality
materials, in Black, Brown. Light and Dark Grey. Brim 2A inches.
Price, 32/6, Post Free.
FINNEY’S,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is even better than fresh fish
BECAUSE
It is CooKed in Sealed Tins—there-
fore none of the goodness can escape.
DELICIOUSLY FRESH.
IN BANANA LAND
The laudable idea of brightening up
funerals has been given a trial at Winton.
A well-known sporting resident settled his
betting account with Bookmaker Time the
other day,, and was given a cordial send-
off. Included in the procession were three
racehorses —Martinet, Elingamite and an-
other —ridden by their jockeys in racing
colors.
Another of the weird horrors of Asia,
known as sprue, has shown itself up north
in the Cairns and Innisfail districts,
and appears to have settled down to
steady business. Anyhow, the Cairns
Chamber of Commerce recently rushed
the Institute of Tropical Medicines with
the news that the. disease was preva-
lent, and the Institute replied that it was
aware of the fact and had already taken
steps tp investigate the accursed thing, which
makes a specialty of wasting away the in-
side of the intestines.
In 1902, towards the close of a stiff
drought, Lands Minister O’Connell carried
a Bill giving huge extensions of time to
pastoral lessees on the grounds that “the
grazing-farm industry was dead.” A few
days ago two grazing farms on Alice Downs
were thrown open, and 1182 applications
were received for them. The “dead” indus-
try has, in fact, suffered such a wonderful
resurrection that the Lands Department is
seriously meditating the purchase of the
privileges so recklessly granted in 1902. And
what a ransom it will have to pay for them !
Brisbane Observer and Courier re the
impending departure of the Macgregor:—
There is always the danger that a Governor,
through personal friendship and influence with Mini-
sters, might be able to secure a longer term of office
than is usually prescribed—a thing in opposition to
the best interests of the country.
So another fetich drops dead. The argu-
ment has always been : that home-grown
Governors would be -amenable to sinister in-
fluences ; but now it. seems that the im
ported article is also human and likewise
fallible.
“P.F.”: “S’Blud” (B. 28/5/T4) chal-
lenges the Sydney aldermanic dictum that
the Moreton Bay fig is “neither ornamental
nor useful.” Writing from the home of the
vegetable, I agree that it is exceedingly orna-
mental, yet assert that is is also one of
Queensland’s curses. The fruit is invariably
packed chock-a-block with fruit flies, and
there is no hope for clean orchards or sound
stone fruits in any Moreton Bay fig dis-
trict. Such a pest is it. that I can hardly
believe it to be indigenous. If is just the
kind of thing that the average “patriot”
would import with pleasure as a chum for
prickly pear and water hyacinth.
“Ivai’s” compliments:—■■
Somewhere about the eiid of last century Bris-
bane came to the conclusion that it was in need of a
city hall wherein to welcome State Governors, Im-
perial Commissioners and important personages like
Bruce Myth, Pieman Reid, etc. After a waste of a
million cubic yards of good breath and enough ink
to float the Australian navy, two sites were selected,
one in Albert-square and the other in Ann-street,
overlooking the river. The ratepayers, by referen-
dum, decided emphatically in favor of the former
site, but Mr. Pirate Enterprise; of ’way down the
Valley, so pulled the .strings that the-thing bung fire
for a decade or thereabouts. Neither crowd would
give way an inch, and Brisbane began to view the
whole squabble with indifference. Then Charles Jen-
kinson, a printer with a fine contempt for the dignity
of the council bumbles, flopped into the chair, and
grabbed the reins. He is one of those vigorous, push-
ful citizens, and he ’ decided to settle the
old town-hall matter for good. His chance
came a few days ago, when the Roman
Catholics, who are jealous of the new Angli-
can Cathedral situation, offered the City Council
£lB,OOO odd for the Ann-street site. Jenkinson
clasped the opportunity to his bosom, and roped in
the cash. Then the fat was in the fire. One aider-
man, named Down, wanted to know what the Mayor
meant by selling such a fine piece of land without
consulting him. The Mayor told him to go to Boggo-
road, or somewhere. Then Down wanted to know
why the ratepayers had not been approached, and
Jenkinson said that they had been, years ago. If
Jenkinson keeps going we will have that new
town hall in a couple of years.
“Mafeking”: “Kai” (B. 21/5/T4) doesn’t
know enough about Brisbane’s front door to
be able to find the keyhole in daylight.
There has never been an accident in the
good North Channel this expert wants
closed. There has been a buoy at Smith’s
Rock for more than 20 years, a_nd it lias
been blown away twice only. Smith’s Rock
is near no channel but in the open sea two
miles from Cape Moreton, and has for years
been marked and lit by two shore lights;
and when they alter the present buoy and
make it a gas-lamp, the approach to More-
ton Bay will be quite safe even for nervous
sun-downers like “Kai.”
Lee Quay and Jue Fong, highly respected
citizens of Townsville, have been awarded
12 months apiece for having recently at-
tempted to bribe the police to induce them
to drop a charge of selling grog to
aboriginals. “Whaffor? Whaffor?” they
asked in astonishment. The thing that
staggers the Celestial in Australia is that
a man should be penalised who offers a
bribe. In China the man who gets pun-
ished is the fellow who won’t offer a bribe.
PRIDE.
MRS. MANGLES : “fust look at them there Mullinses a-stickin' on dorg wiv their noo
greengrocery cart.”
MUFFINS: “ Yes, an' to ’ear them tork about the people wot they run over jest as if it
was a motor-car! ”
“Potjostler, Jun.,” from Rockhampton—
In June, 1913, the controlling majority of the
Board which boosted nearly-half a million of money
into the Fitzroy River sustained an unexpected defeat
at the' annual election. Then Hopper (meat works
manager) became chairman and opened the safe to
get the profits of five record seasons and to handle
some of the loan money. Practically all he found
was a -dishonored p.n. for £4OOO, being half the
interest and redemption due on loan money; a re-
quest from the Railway Commissioner for £2700,
loss incurred on the 'guaranteed Port Alma line; a
letter from the Board’s banker asking it to pay up
£2823 overdraft; and, tucked away in a dark corner,
a disheartening report from the engineer regarding
the river’s depth. Also, the engineer explained that
the. dredge (which cost £60,000 of loan money a
few years ago) had not enough efficient machinery in
her hull to haul her anchor from the mud. As
Hopper said, he was stacked up against it. How-
ever, he tackled the mess, and has cleared it up to
this extent after- 12 months of office. The dredge
has been overhauled, repaired and renovated at a
cost of £BOOO ; the dishonored p.n. has been hon-
ored ; the banker has been paid off; the Railway
Commissioner has been handed a cheque for £2700;
300 ft. have been added to the wharfage accommoda-
tion, and the Board has £8323 for interest and
redemption due on June 30. Also, during the time
the dredge was laid up a barge was converted into
a suction dredge, and the river was kept open for
traffic. Further, no money was borrowed. But, of
course, novelties like that are neither understood nor
appreciated by the borrow-and-bust crowd, which at
the coming Board elections will be represented by
three candidates. They are beautifuly candid about
their intentions, and say in their published address:
“The necessity of increasing the borrowing powers of
the Board will receive our closest attention. We shall
heartily support an application to the Government for
additional loan funds.” There is only one useful
reply to that, and a handy grindstone will give an
edge to it.
Advt. from Brisbane Daily Mail
WANTED, a competent Man, as Caretaker; must
be able to plough and milk* 15 cows milking, also
understand the working of a separator; wages, £ 1
per week and found ; do his own cooking. Apply to
- ——, Purga, via Ipswich.
That’s fairly comprehensive; but the adver-
tiser forgot to say that he expected the com-
petent man to have a small appetite. Per-
haps there’ll be no time for an appetite, so
it doesn’t matter.
The Government’s new pilot steamer
Matthew Flinders has just been launched—
not in Brisbane or Sydney or Melbourne,
but in some ship-building yard in Scotland.
Evidently Denham and co., being good Aus-
tralians, reckoned that Australia couldn’t
be trusted with the building of its own pilot
steamers ; or perhaps they decided that, since
John Bull and Sandy McDitto had supplied
the cash to pay for the boat, they might as
well have the money back again as well as
the interest on it and the loan itself when it
falls due.
Said a well-known Queenslander at the
Presbyterian Assembly: “The kirk ought to
go in for land speculation. A few friends
and I bought a block at Jondowaie for the
church for £l2, and now we are offered £260
for it.” Somewhere the Scripture says:
“How hardly shall they that have riches
enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.” Still,
perhaps the money is worth the risk.
“Albion”: The Queensland farmers are
out on the warpath to cut the throat of the
railway guarantee system. At Toowoomba
the other day a large number of farmers met,
and unanimously protested against the bur-
den placed upon the shoulders of settlers
in the various benefited areas, on the ground
that the betterment principle, as applied to
railway construction in agricultural dis-
tricts, is calculated to retard the closer occu-
pation of the country. Bebbington, M.L.A.,
said the biggest loss standing against one
railway—the Atherton line —was £15,000,
and he did not know how any farming com-
munity could spar up that amount. Other
losses were : Dalby to ‘ Tara, £5719 ; Mary-
vale, £5101; Millmerran, £4397. Colonel
H. V. King, referring to the Haden line,
said the district had guaranteed the line as
far as Goombungee, but the Department went
over the mark by seven miles to Haden. The
farmers had an assurance that the line would
cost £25,000; but they were asked to look
pleasant and pay on £84,000. Queensland has
quite a number of these penny-in-the-slot
agricultural lines, so now that: the ruralite
has begun to shake the hay off himself there’s
sure to be some trouble in the near future.
“Caius Marius”; Some blots on Queens-
land’s map are China Camp, China Town,
Chinaman’s Creek, Chindo, Chingee, Chowey,
Friezland, Mt. Blanc, Mexico, Texas, Alpha,
Beta, Strasburg, Catarrh Creek, Jericho,
Labrador, Lord John Swamp, Motmt
Romeo and Nankin. If anybody has a worse
collectipn let him go and bury it.
“Teacher,” in something of a frenzy:—
Bananaland Teachers’ Association carried to Edu-
cation Minister Blair the other day the resolutions
passed at its last conference in Brisbane. It asked for
many things, among them the abolition of school
committees. The plea was that these humbugs had
“outlived their usefulness.” Blair promised to con-
sider the matter, and then remarked ominously that
perhaps it would be a grave mistake to abolish the
link between the school and the parents. The posi-
tion is a freakish one. The State owns'the schools
—the buildings, the grounds and the weeds thereon.
The State compels the children to attend, and the
Department pays everything, finding dollars for all
the items except the cat on the doormat, from the
chalk to the highest salary, from disinfectant for the
outhouses to anything that you can think of now or
to-morrow. The Department supplies the curriculum,
trains the teachers, inspects the schools annually (or
oftener), promotes the teachers when it pleases or
pushes them gently downstairs. It does everything,
yet it persists in the foolish old gag that it has a
committee of seven to do the rest on behalf of the
parents. The rest, of course, is nothing. But the
committee has to have its honor and glory, so it
holds monthly meetings, at which it persists strenu-
ously at its job of doing nothing. The last one I
attended was slightly interrupted by the secretary
wishing to sell an oil engine to his brother nuisance.
But the chairman wasn’t in too good a humor-—he
had been up early that morning milking Strawberry
in the wet and dark, so he interrupted the business.
I was sorry; it seemed a pity to meet and do nothing
at all. But there are some awful things the com-
mittee has power to do. For instance, it can come
into the schools and inspect the records. Imagine a
Savings Banks manager, a Lands Department surveyor
or a lord of the Works Department being handicapped
by a local committee which could push its long, in-
expert nose into the business of those offices. But
the committees don’t often do this. They have a
wise discretion, and they exercise it. As a matter
of fact they do little but pose, though occasionally
they make some mischief by ignorant interference.
In one-way it was significantly unpleasant to watch
the haste with which Some of the teachers galloped
back from the conference to their own little anthills
and explained to their committees that they didn’t
support the iniquitous proposal at all, and
were sure the committees were Divine- gifts. Put
the matter pointedly, and it amounts to this: Is the
Department game to abolish these warts, useless when
they- are not mischievous, or do their votes count too
many ?
“Galleryite” : During the next few months
Federal Liberalism will regret that it passed
over John Forrest in favor of Joe Cook.
Cook is a slicker man in the House, but out-
side debate the Westralian heavyweight
“has it all over him.” In a general election
it is_ the leader’s personality that tells.
Cook’s is a wretched one for fighting pur-
poses. It stands, in the vague tumultuous
mind of the average elector, for such unin-
spiring things as Sabbath-school picnics,
small terrace houses, hymns sung by obtru-
sively sainted gentlemen in broad cloth and
seedy tall hats, pawky chapel jokes, Empire
Day patriotism, cold tea, Toryism heavily
cloaked and ashamed, and an abhorrence of
practically every form of sport of other
than the infant-class variety. Forrest, with
all his faults, suggests virility. He has the
sort of record that appeals to the constitu-
encies. He is a human, warm-blooded old
megasaurus. Cook gives the impression that
he has some variety of cold temperance drink
in his veins, and with Irvine in the Cabinet
there are already several gallons too much
of this fluid on the premises of Liberalism.
Dunedin (M.L.) is feeling graun’, ye
ken, because it has dug out a real, live con-
nection o’ Bobbie Burns. Her name (the
great discovery is of the suffragette sex) is
Mrs. A. It. Livingstone, and she has just
been elected a life member of the local
Bur-r-r-ns Club. She is a grand-niece of
the only writer that the majority of the resi-
dents of the Scawtch metropolis will admit
was a poet.
A .sensation has been caused by a report
of the newly-imported manager of Cockatoo
Dock, J. King-Salter. According to the ex-
pert who was brought here to show the Com-
monwealth the way to build warships
The vessels under construction will take five
years to build instead of two; hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds are being wasted every year, in
present circumstances; the supply of labor falls
short of urgent requirements by several hundred
men; and the “Government stroke” has become so
pronounced under the system of day-payment that
in many instances the men are doing not more than
a third of the normal work.
In many respects the story fails to hang to-
gether. If there is so much Government
stroke —if, in brief, the men get such an
easy time of it—why is the place so short of
hands? As a matter of fact, the sum of the
whole thing is admitted by manager King-
Salter to be neither shortness of hands nor
the Government stroke, but want of sufficient
plant:—
The building of warships at, Cockatoo cannot
proceed at all without new machinery and addi-
tional equipment of various kinds.
His idha is that it will cost at least £500,000
if an efficient dockyard is to be placed at the
disposal of the Government. The news is
not cheering for the next Government, since
that dock has to be rendered efficient even if
the financial heavens explode.
Lavender Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lavender street runs by the sea, and there
are gardens there,
With trees and shrubs and musky trails, and
moist, sea-haunted air,
Pert hollyhocks in carmine kilts, petunias
spilled below,
By flat, red roof and gleaming pane, a jas-
mine swinging snow.
Fig trees slapping heavy leaves, roses sweet
as myrrh,
Lilies in their tight green sleeves—but no
lavender!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


yf A^S
■ •
QlO QC‘
m
iWSHsi
in
» • •
a
■ .
••- :
mm.
:
■
WSi
SliM
11
r:^ v -
assssi
■ '
fBK
SSSISSII;
wsmm
■t;:
a
V.
u II
Fm
Very
ISH
e
seje
Ki
LIC TOR
'-
■
m)
■ *s«
£
6
%/
agl
!W
■
18^
fA^
R ODu
SCOTLAN p
CE
OF
=D
V
iy ; -:
£P
V.. '
THE HALL MARK
N°in
THE LANCET
The LEADING MEDICAL JOURNAL
SAYS
“WATSON’S No. 10
fT WHISKY is
honestly described on the
Label, the quality is certain-
ly excellent and the mellow
and delicate flavour of
Malt indicates Maturing by
Age.”- —- : —
SCOTCH WHISKY
‘.ntr ■ $ - r -■ » ~ *:r*


Cod Liver oil
may mean anything
SCOTT’S Emulsion
means only the superfine grade
of the world s finest cod liver
oil made pleasing to the
taste and three times as power-
ful as in the raw state.
It is not quantity, but quality
that counts. One small bottle
of SCOTT S Emulsion is well
worth a dozen bottles of any
preparation of inferior oil.
Give SCOTT’S to the weakly
child, to the nursing mother,
to those who require a builder
up and to all who suffer from
coughs, colds, bronchitis or
throat troubles. But, be cure
it is genuine
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
with the fishman on the package.
1874
TRADE
A
y
1914
MARK
A Free Trial Supply of
ANTINEURASTHIN
The only known effective remedy for nervous break-
down or exhaustion, will be sent to any address in
Australia on receipt of 2d. in stamps to cover cost
of postage. Antineurasthin is a
NERVE AND BRAIN FOOD.
It cures by feeding the brain and nerve cells with
their natural food element, Lecithin, in an active
organic state, and is the only known means of effec-
tively doing this. Its value is fully demonstrated
by its rapid and permanent effect upon the nervous
system and health generally; sound, natural sleep,
improved digestion, power of application to work,
concentration of thought, and sound, vigorous men-
tality.
Send full address, with 2d. in stamps, to cover
postage, to the AVholesale Distributor for Australia,
11. A. Goddard, No. 3 Australasia Chambers, 406-414
Queen St., Brisbane, or Branches: 194 Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney; 9-15 Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne; 3 Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; 213 Smeeton’s Build-
ings, Queen St., Auckland.
Serial No. 810.—Guaranteed under the Pure Foods
Act of New South Wales, by 11. A. Goddard, Sydney,
to contain not less than 10 per cent. Pure Lecithin.
No. 810.
POWDER
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co,,
Box 93, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
pi at e d V anity
M
M
M
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
ror, exact-
ly like il-
lustration.
I Was Bald
And came into possession of the
secret of a Genuine Hair Grower.
My Hair Grew to its Present Length in 40 Days.
.1/ r. t'll A VEN
BURLEIGH
From a recent
; photograph.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is of special interest to every MAN
AND WOMAN who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARA-
TIONS. If you have HAD NO SUCCESS WITH OTHERS, please write to
me. I REFRAIN from expressing any persona] opinion as to other prepara-
tions, but point to the vast array of letters received from patrons, who,
HAVING TESTED numerous advertised compounds, washes, etc., without
benefit, used my pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE EXACTLY AS REPRE-
SENTED A TRUE HAIR GROWER. It is always prepared in accordance
with the formula with which my name has become famous, and which is
endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS OF ENGLAND, GERMANY,
FRANCE AND THE UNITED STATES. It can be shown by many letters
which I receive that, IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLICATION,
THE HAIR BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY,
STRONG, PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Those who are troubled with falling hair, dandruff, baldness, itching scalp, etc., know full well
the humiliation that they cause. There is no need, however, of such conditions. These troubles can
be quickly overcome by my True Hair Grower.
10,000 Free Trial Boxes
My offer is a straightforward, honest proposition from a business man to sensible men and women.
The merit of my TRUE HAIR GROWER is in the preparation itself, not in the advertising. If you
will write to me 1 will send you a TRIAL BOX of the JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH TRUE lIAIR
GROWER. 1 make this offer because 1 want YOU to know just what my True Hair Grower will do.
I was bald, it cured me, and it has cured thousands of others. Package will be sent securely sealed
in plain wrapper.
BALDNESS, DANDRUFF, ITCHING, ETC.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Cut out this Qoupop, and send with 3 stamps, to cover postage, etc., and I will
immediately polst a trial li'oi of my True Hair Grower.
JOHN CRAVEN BURLEIGH, DEPT. 7, 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
? i SYDNEY.
Last month, on leaving ' Brisbane, going
north, the Chinese crew of the ship Alden-
ham was musWred as usual by the Customs
ofliret ; and, although the true,
answered the roll call, he nr
of them had aged strangely. sj|
arrival Notwithstanding tl
able [irotests that the chaj
Enoggera water and„the det
cnee of picture shA'ws.' the
smelt a ru -s l '^
stranger
who,
hat
land
Pagans h
in China.
eeedtnes
r\yo Hop
Oommonw
■rre old-firm
lesiroils of li
du t
Thcr'
quaint
an ene,
plan
put hi
had t
other
throngs,
present,
said they
they objec
British p
stupids ca
been com
try’s Deb
taxes;
that wa
when
Ihe d ¥
pare to d
that they
principle of
how, the wor
tempt the ki]
himself, but
other kid to
“Don Q.” :
hnnnv famil
certain
ter Appel is tlie square peg in a round
or tbe round liole in a square face,'or
BRACES
For Met 7 of Fiction
They're Great
At all Stores, 2'
DenhamJ having pushed his Liquor Bill a
second time through, the Assembly, now finds
himself confronted by the Bung party in the
jg is not otilv potent in the
ssils by virtue of direct repre
in the fact that two lead
barrack for Beer (Bung
each then
Po opinions
kamber
Co
the
the Highland
rily remarked
s travels seen
nrough their
' im, to speak
1 to barbar-
;ie Highland
shall pro*
i Scot
to the
:a-laru
, while
to r.h”
? consist
was given
tbatSwaited on
oquclt that he
i)div®ed a estate
vernmcnt
De. ham.
ad time
nd sold
ndyari-
that
h ropic
tri to heliev
laying (i pe.
Government
ham didn’t
I lie request.
ho.nr ‘‘land
rt the feel-
supporters.
champion
lady tennis player, and dnnehter of Donald
Mackintosh. M.L.A.. was married tn Pitts
f.
*»
A
AIR RIFLES
If you have not handled these Air Rifles you can
have no idea of their potentialities for sport, rec eition
or instruction. Used by thousands of Rifle ( lubs in
England and colonies, and particularly suitable for
schools, cadets, boy scouts, rifle clubs, etc.
In .construction and accuracy the B.S.A Air Rifle is .
equal to the best match rifles and it will last a lifetime.
| Very deadly at rabbits, birds, etc., up to 50 yards
and altogether an ideal weapon for range, garden
or indoor practice. Fires 100 shots for 3d.
Prices from G5/-. Write for special Air
Rifle Handbook. Post free from
D. Y. RENNIE
Representing Co. Ltd.
Aust. Bldgs., Melb.
I
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/b.
$
L
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks of-
SPASMS and COLIL.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
;iie cough of BRONCHITIS arid
CONSUMPTION.
Act* like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple
DYSENTERY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
tinless stamps accompany.
"Ped.: Not intimate enough ; there are none
of those little touches which show that the writer
knows the inside of his subject... .Fresco: The com-
plaint of Boggabri and other back-country places in
N. S. Wales that they shouldn’t be taxed to help
build the Sydney Harbor bridge would sound much
more convincing if Boggabri and the rest of them
didn’t reach out quite so anxiously to the State
Treasury for money to provide their own local punts
and bridges.... Nose for News: Thanks; but there s
no name, no address, no mention of where the alleged
incident happened-—how do you expect us to swallow
it? Culex: That is right. The G.M. of this paper
was cured of neuritis in the arm by cold water
applied with enthusiasm and a hose by Brother Mal-
colui. When the reply in Answers to Correspondents
was written to H. W. Kay the G.M. was over-
looked. Incidentally, the cold water cure was not
the suggestion of Malcolm.... Icona: Glad to hear
from y0u.... Blue Gum: We had a par. about
Greene’s “Australian Snakes,” or the snakes that
he alleges are Australian. Perhaps he means Irish
snakes. .. .Oreegulla : The reason was this. You said
the -.stories were “your first efforts,” whereas they
were the efforts of the writer who forwarded them
to The Bulletin (where thev were published) long
ago. Nothing in par. accompanying your letter.
....Oxo: You’d like to see “the attached” printed
in the Abo. columns? Well, come down to the
cellar where the early files are mouldering, and
you’ll see it....Puha: You tell a yarn fairly well.
But try to avoid churning out sentences like the
following: “Thereafter his presence at nights in the
little township was conspicuous by its absence.”
By way of contrast, the concluding sentence is a
good example of humorous cynicism. Story returned
after deliberation. Try it on some local paper. .. .
Nicco M.: We hereby commit this manuscript to
the w.p.b Manilla: Your geography is weak and
your pen is suffering from senile decay... .C.H.:
Can’t discount Bill’s Bill. .. . FrarjJt It. (V.): Re
poems. Really cannot tell you in advance how your
work is likely to affect us. We might be filled with
admiration or stifled with fury ; on the other hand,
we might be paralysed with indifference. Send them
along and watch to Eee if we jump. . . .E.I.R. (Melb ) :
The verses don’t exactly clamor for publication. . . .
Rupert P.: Blank verses far too blank. .. . J.A.R. (or
it may be K.) : The truth must be told—it is poor.
....Danvers O. (8.C.) : Not this time. .. .Charles
G. (M.L.) : Sorry none suitable. .. .8.C.: As a horse-
poem it falls short, and as a piece of literature it
falls shorter. .. .Edith H.: Verse bears a terrible re-
semblance to stodge. .. .0.M.0.: “Parted”! Yes,
“Parted” from the printer! It will have to get to<
him over the Religious Editor’s dead body.
If all seemed to be lost, someone would choke
the printer honorably with his own gold-rimmed spec-
tacles.... Thomas M. U.: Your letter:
Sir, —I have written these few lines lately, from a
great vision I had a whyle back. The sceans con-
stantly chanted through my conscience, until I had
foretold which I had seen in verses. I have sent
the verses in to you, —for to be criticized. And I
should feel deeply greatful if you would enter them
in your next edition. (If satisfactory) T.MU.
The poem:—
PARADISEi
Invisioned a Plase O’ so higher,
Than this world so weak in vain ;
The sceans I saw to admire,
Shall ever in my conscience reign.
I saw there amidst sparkling nature;
Steps leading O’—so high,
I was greeted with love to enter,
I entered, with passion, and sigh.
Maids bowed as I entered the door ;
And lo! ’twas a glorious sight,
As they lead me on to the shore ;
Step by step,—flight by flight.
At last I reached a glorious place,
Such a sight again I n’er shall see;
Maids danced, and bowed, but no disgrace,
I saw but love, and charm with glee.
I then descended with great delight,
On earth I had never lived before;
Till I in vision saw a light,
A light which bid me live, once more.
....Mrs. C E.F.: It’s a perfectly harmless scrap....
W.H.McD.: The humor is strained... .Jas. P. McE.:
Can’t enthuse about your whisky....A. Scott: “The
enclosed lines. . . .might be dedicated to Harrv
Lauder, as I know that he would allow it.” No,
really!.... C.E.H.: Can only give you (1) the faint
praise that damns and (2) your manuscript back —if
you send stamps.... Rubo: It boils down to this—
Munro Ferguson was Cooked and the Constitution
•was Dished. ~ .P.G.M.: Higgs’s caper in playfully
hiding the Mace under a seat in the House of Reps,
might have made another battlecr.y for Liberalism —
“Don’t trust the Labor people! They steal Maces”
—only, unfortunately, a Mace disappeared utterly
from the same premises in Matthew Davies’s time,
before there was any Labor partv there. And Oliver
Cromwell, who also wasn’t a Laborite, was mixed
up in a similar business... .Balgowlah: Quite right,
The Bulletin has said it often. Fines shouldn’t
be inflicted in..such cases; if the swindlers won’t put
pure milk in the jug, they should go there them-
selves.
“Silas Snell” reports an unusual demon-
stration in his South Yarra tabernacle: —
The contretemps involved Mrs. Blank, Mr. Blank,
a total stranger (name unknown) and a dignified
elder. The Blanks are peace-loving, God-fearing
people, and had attended the same church for years
without suffering any unusual inconvenience; but
on this particular Sunday evening during the course
of the sermon Mr. Blank noticed that Mrs. Blank
was betraying considerable uneasiness. Every now
and again she gave a perceptible jump. Twice she
turned and bent a withering eye upon the man
behind; but thh man behind, a thin, mild-looking,
sandy person \ of about 30, betrayed no guile, and
greeted the buying glance with simple unconcern.
At length Mrs. Blank uttered her complaint. “James,”
she said, “the wrietched fellow on the seat behind is
putting things down my back.” Then James turned
to wither the stranger, and again the stranger de-
clined to crumple. “He's done it again!” gasped
Mrs. Blank after a short interval. “How dare you,
you rascal?” hissed Mr. Blank, turning on the
stranger. The stranger replied with a benignant
glance, but was not deterred. “He’s put another
down!” whispered Mrs. Blank. Blank’s dander was
up. lie signalled to a dignified elder. The sermon
was suspended while Blank and the elder argued
with the gentle stranger, and was not continued till
the elder and Mr. Blank took the ginger young man
by the arms, and removed him from the building.
Outside, Blank so far forgot his Christian character
and the day it was as to hit the unknown on the
nose. But the unknown did not seem to mind. He
smiled gently on Blank even through the consequent
bloodshed. The Blanks concluded that the man
behind was “a bit dippy,” and troubled no more
about the matter till they were on the point of
retiring that night, and 1.0 sovereigns, a diamond
ring, and a gold and ruby pendant fell to the
carpet. The plot becomes more interesting when it
is known that somewhat similar adventures have
befallen other ladies at two churches and a picture
show. Plainly there is an opulent crank at large in
Melbourne, with a peculiar passion for dropping
valuables down the back of anv convenient matron
who happens to be slightly decollete. This may
lead to an improvement in woman’s dress. I have
seen bodices cut so low that they wouldn’t hold
mnepence.


V i ■■
' #
F '
*****
:r
■ -m
f ff- Ifi
?mf ,S-■ •" ■ v .i
:,\s
wi
-ft.
V *,
I .vl
tmmm
- s
pm
; * ar-p
- ,/ p,.-i
>■.. ...
The Many
Happy Moments
of the Day.
Why not turn them into solid cash?
If such is your desire —the Kodak £s°°
Happy Moments Competition affords you an
excellent opportunity. •
Get a Kodak or Brownie Camera and send in
I en Happy Snapshots before
The 30th June, 1914*
This is positively the last day for receiving entries.
The First Prize is (which a beginner might Win) —there
are 116 prizes in all, and 28 of these are reserved exclusively
for beginners.
Full particulars are given in the Kodak “Happy Moments”
Booklet, and a copy may be obtained of all Kodak dealers or
direct from us.
Make a special note that technical merit is unnecessary —happiness
only will count.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block," 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Randle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA: Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE: Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON: Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. : 76 Stuart Street.
To obtain the Presentation Casket, containing
Delicious Chocolates, you need only paste twenty
the form below, and post it to us.
CADBURY’S
Coupons on
9
fbcoA
G21l>!ll
udbury
gOUR
CADBUR
c AOBu
CAOBU
CAo
caobury
Name
Address
/as full as\
V possible )
Whtn complete post this sheet fo-GIFT
14 Market Street, Melbourne or
C. 5
DEPT., CADBURY’S,
267 George Street, Sydney.
Start at No. 5 with red coupons.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR OBTAINING FREE
GIFT BOXES.
Bournville Cocoa (Flavoured) and Cadbury’s
Cocoa (Unflavoured).
Tins and Packets contain Coupons
as follows:
One Red Coupon
Two Red Coupons
Four Red Coupons
Eight Red Coupons
One Yellow Coupon
J-lb. Tin
l- lb. Tin
1- Tin
2- Tin
Packet
FREE COUPONS.
We give you herewith four red coupons free to start your
collection, leaving you only 20 Tib. red coupons to get. if
you are collecting coupons from packets the four free red
coupons are equivalent to seven 6d. yellow coupons, leaving
you only 34 yellow coupons to get.
It is more economical to buy in tins.
MIXED COUPONS.
Seven 6d. yellow coupons equal four Tib. red coupons.
HOW TO SEND COUPONS.
Coup6ns should be arranged in the 'numbered divisions
from left to right, placing one over the other; see illus-
tration of free coupons.
FOR AUSTRALIA ONLY.
r,
n.
V,
o
QQj
Legal Notices.
URSUANT to an Order of the
XT Chancery Division of the High
Court of Justice made in the matter of the
estate of Robert Townsend Hippisley de-
ceased Hippisley v. Hippisley 1912 H. 15.15
and dated the 12th October 1912 the follow-
ing inquiry is directed, viz.: An inquiry
whether CHARLES ERNEST HIPPISLEY
named in the will of Robert Townsend Hip-
pisley is living or dead and if dead when he
died and whethei' he left any and what will
and whether he was ever married and if so
when and to whom and whether there were
any children of the said marriage and who
are- his legal personal representatives.
Notice is hereby given that the said
Charles Ernest Hippisley and all persons
claiming through or by descent from him
are personally or by their solicitors on or
before the 4th day of July 1914 to come in
and prove their claims at the Chambers of
Mr. Justice Joyce and Mr. Justice Eve,
Room 692 Royal Courts of Justice, Strand,
London, England, or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the bene-
fit of the said order. AVednesday the 15th
day of July 1914 at half-past two in the
afternoon at the said Chambers is appointed
for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims. Dated the 15th day of December
1913. —A KEEN, Master of the Supreme
Court.
ROBBINS, OLIVEY & LAKE,
218 Strand, London, AV.C.,
For ABBOT, POPE & ABBOT,
Bristol,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Note.—The above-named Charles Ernest
Hippisley who was a son of the testator
Robert Townsend Hippisley a solicitor of
Bristol England is now if alive about 51
years of age. He went to Australia in Feb-
ruary 1889 and was there employed by
Messrs. Robert Reid & Co., and afterwards
till May 1897 by Messrs. Sands & McDougall
(Limited). He resided at Rochester Lodge,
Collins-place, Melbourne. He left Mel-
bourne in May, 1897, by the Orient Steam-
ship Orizaba for London, where he stayed
one or two months, and is believed to have
resided at 123 Fulham-road, London. In
October, 1897, he left London, and until
April, 1898, was employed by Messrs. J.
Garlick & Co., of Alderley-street, Cape
Town, South Africa, and resided at 43 St.
John-street, Cape Town. He returned to
Melbourne in 1898, and expressed -his inten-
tion of going to Queensland or Sydney. He
is alleged to have been seen in London by an
old schoolfellow in 1908.
Should the above advertisement, which
has reference to benefits accruing to him
under his father’s will, meet the eye of the
said Charles Ernest Hippisley, or in the
event of his death that of his widow or
children, he is (or they are) earnestly re-
quested to communicate with the least pos-
sible delay with his brother Alfred Edward
Hippisley, of 8 Herbert-crescent, London,
S.AY.. or with the said Messrs. Ahbot, Pope
& Abbot, solicitors, Bristol.
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONE
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. (t«)


Missing Friends,
■JONTING. —If Elizabeth Ponting, daugh-
_L ter of Christian Braten, of Schweinebra-
ten, deceased, will communicate with Messrs.
Taylor and Taylor, 10 New Broad Street,
London, E.C., she will hear of something to
her advantage.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Coniidential, Next Qf Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
41) Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
R
ICKAKDS' TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
SPECIAL ADA REEVE MATINEES,
WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
ADA REEVE.
ADA REEVE.
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
Supported by Full Company of World’s Star Artists.
Box Plan: THEATRE & NICHOLSON’S.
' IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
DUSTY RHODES, “The Caruso of Vaudeville.
THE ELLIOTT SAVON AS,
VALLECITA’S LEOPARDS.
ED. E. FORD, “The Australian Sundowner. ’
JOSH DIXON, Celebrated English Comedian.
AVINIFRED AVARD, The Immaculate Boy.
THE SHENTONS. THE ELWOODS.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —45., 35., 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
IVO L I TIIEA T R E, ADELAIDE
THIS WEEK.
AV. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
GILDAY & FOX, Hebrew Character Comedians.
VERA ROCHDALE. IRMA CARON.
GERTRUDE GEBEST. CLARDY BROS.
THE SIX CAMERONS. THE GILLS.
RUSSELL CAR, England’s Foremost Ventriloquist.
•y I V O L 1 T H E A T R E, PERT H.
lIARRY RICK A 1! DS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
SAM STERN. THE TWO BOBS.
TUCKER. THE CREOS. LAZERN.
TAVO PTIILMERS. ALEX. BLACK.
WELCH & CARBASSE. GABRIELLE HOPE.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. ARDO.
TOM DAAVSON. BENSON & BELLE.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
|_|E R MA,I E S T Y’_S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. AVILLIAMSON. Ltd
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF “THE FORTY THIEVES.
SATURDAY NEXT. 7.45 p.m.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON, LTD., presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing musical treat of 1914.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
&
TA I T
N .
present
HARRY LAUDER.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Season: —
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Commencing MONDAY, JULY 6.
New Zealand Tour :
Commencing MONDAY, AUGUST 17,
HARRY LAUDER TOUR.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne
APEI, I'll I TIIEAT It E. SYDNEY.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF “THE GIRL WHO TOOK
THE WRONG TURNING.”
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, for Six Nights ONLY.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMBINATION, in Romantic Indian-American Drama.
QUEEN OF THU REDSKINS.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
PA I. AC K THKA T It I S\"N It V.
Lessee DIX AND BAKER.
THE PHOTO PLAY OF THE EPOCH.
FRASER FILM.
Latest
THE SILENCE OF DEAN MAITLAND.
Commencing SATURDAY, JUNE 13.
6 NIGHTS ONLY.
POPULAR PRICES.
National theatre, Sydney.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
At 2.30, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8.
II- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/ & 6d.
Reservations, 1/6. Holidays and Saturdays, 2/-.
Ed. Blondell, assisted by Ivatheryne Caine, in “The
Lost Boy.” Zeno & Mandell, Spanish Goldinis, Van
Buren & Spinitti. Winter & Field. Woodward &
Page. The Vardells. Levanto & Speed. Ray
De Vere. Geraldine. Moreton. Margaret Caraher.
Evening Prices as Usual.
’Phone: Central 906 for Reservations.
II E L I T TEE T II E A T It E
CASTLKREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.10 Sharp.
Mr. HUGH C. BUCKLER & Miss VIOLET PAGET
have pleasure in presenting the most famous of all
the Old World Comedies,
THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL.
PLAN PALTNG’S. DAY SALE, WHITE ROSE.
Direction: BENDRODT & IRVING.
DANCING.
TWICE DAT L Y.
’Phone, 682 William Street.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HE OLYMPIA, SYDNEY
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
W JUST’S PICT U RES, LTD.
“P.FST OF ALL”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATUIiDAY. .
DE CROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s.
Plans at NicliCibPP’s . (No Extra l'ee).
Amusements.
QXA~CI A It I U 31, SYDNEY.
Tiil<] ICK-SKATIKG SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone. Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE. Manager.
g PENCE It’S U’CEUM, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S "BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—'WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL.
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 13.
MATin ATT AN LEO - JAN & MISCHEL
MAUD AUUAJN CHERNIAVSKY.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
(Conductor, FRANK ST. LEGER).
PRICES: 10/6, 7/6, 5/- PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
Direction AV. ANGUS MACLEOD.
Manager HOWARD EDIE.
HER .MAJESTY’S THEATRE, M ELIiOURNE.
Direction .1. C. AVII.LIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Production in Melbourne of the Sensational Play,
SEALED OIIDE 11 S .
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
H E AT RUE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
Reappearance of FRED NIBLO and JOSEPHINE
COHAN, in
NEVE It SAY DIE.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
PRINCESS'S THEATRE, MEEBODRNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
Mr. George Willoughby and E. J. Carroll (in conjunc-
tion) present
THE ROSA. RY.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
J. & N . T A I X
present
HAltO L.D BADE R,,
MASTER PIANIST.
“A great musician. A genuine artist and an
amazing pianist—that is Harold Bauer.”
—London Daily Telegraph.
Melbourne Season now being given in the Auditorium.
Sydney Season in the Town Hall: —
JUNE 27, 29. JULY 1 and 2.
Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Melbourne repertory theatre
AT THE THEATRE ROYAL.
SATURDAY, JUNE 20. 2.30 p.m.
Matinee Performance of BERNARD SHAW’S
FANNY’S FIRST PLAY.
SATURDAY, JUNE 27.
MatinCe Performance of IBSEN’S
AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE.
BOX PLANS at PIANOLA CO. and BOOKLOVERS
on MONDAY, 15th inst.
DIJO U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN. J. FULLER-
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
DUMITRESEN TROUPE. GRUET & GRUET.
VIENNA TRIO. BIFF & D’AMO.
CARLO MAI TRIO. BRENT HAYES.
TWO STOREYS & DOUBLE CO.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. Matinfies: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
AJESTIC . THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
M
The ONLY Practical Combination of an
Adding Machine and a Calculating Machine.
f
A
This machine will handle in
hour a series of calculations
take four to five men hours of
fess than one
which would
tedious work.
Fastest on
ADDITION.
The superior speed and accuracy
of the “Comptometer” in addi-
tion is proved by its use by the
great merchants ot the world.
Fastest on
SUBTRACTION.
and easy.
Tie “Comptometer” is
equipped with cut-offs
making subtraction rapid
Fastest on
MULTIPLICATION.
There are five times as
many “Comptometers”
in use to-day on Multi-
plication as all other makes of adding machines put
together. , ,
Fastest on
DIVISION.
The “Comptometer” is the fastest
machine in the world for division
where there are up to 6 figures in
the division which covers all commercial divisions.
FELT & TARRANT MFG. CO.
London, Chicago, New York, Paris, Berlin, Buenos Aires, etc.
Australian Agents: Peacock Bros., 214-216 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
M
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
His Masters Voice
c opY».e.**
“His Master’s Voice” Gramophone Records are ever up to the moment.
No new phase of musical entertainment is ever introduced by notable
artistes but you can get it on “His Master’s Voice” Records.
Is it a Tango, Two-step or Ragtime dance you sefek? We list the best.
Is.'it a song by Lauder? We have 51 of them.
A beautiful violin solo by Ellmann? A “celebrity number” by Caruso? You
will find it in the “H.M.V.” list.
Whenever you have a new song or musical bit that pleases you, refer to
“His Master’s Voice” Record Lists, where you will no doubt find it
featured.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest accred-
ited dealer.
Be Sure to Get “His
Master’s Voice” Records.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET- SYDNEY.
|y| EIBOCRNE
GIACIARHiII.
ICE-SK A T X N G.
AFTERNOONS AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
\KI K S T’S PALACE, JIELBOI'RN K.
BFST WEST’S PICTURES the best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays.
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the would.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Picture Worthv of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —Cd. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
BI It C H & CABK O L L
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres ol
which we have the Bqolcing Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
HF.An Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE
0 >•
■>
£d
Proved by independent
scientific investigation
to have a Body-Build-
ing Power of 10 to
20 times the amount
taken.
your teeth to last
as long as possible
Calvert’s
«SoHi Powder
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert &■ Co., Manchester, Eng.
, .^l/ 1
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
mirT '%■
F.WOIFFiSOHN
F.WOLFF&SOHN
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable at all the leading stores.


ITCHING HASH
ON BODYAND LEGS
Burning Heat. Itching So Intoler-
able Could Not Get Proper Rest,
Used Cuticura Ointment. Not
Vestige of Complaint Left.
19 Ivy St., Darlington, N. S. W.—“l can
speak with great praise as to the efficacy of
the Cuticura Ointment in a case which
caused some amount of annoyance and great
discomfort. My wife in the cold weather
became afflicted with a widely spread crim-
son rash over the lower part of the body and
legs, accompanied with burning heat and
such intolerable itching that she could not
get proper rest at night. I was recom-
mended co use the Cuticura Ointment and
it was applied night and morning. To our
intense delight before the expiration of a
fortnight there was not a vestige of the
complaint left.” (Signed) David Blollock
J. P., Sept. 30, 1912.
FACE ITCHED AND BURNED
317 Young St., Fitzroy, Vic.—"My face
and arms are completely cured by Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment. I suffered
for about seven or eight months with sore
face and arms. They itched and burned and
the skin came off. It itched terribly and
when I rubbed it water oozed out. I tried
the Cuticura Soap and Ointment and found
they gave me instant relief, and within a
very short time, as I have said, the irri-
tation disappeared and my skin was quite
restored.” (Signed) Alfred Chessell, June
1912.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment do much for
poor complexions, red, rough hands, and
dry, thin and falling hair. Sold throughout
the world. Liberal sample of each mailed
free, with 32-p. Skin Book’. Address It.
Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Constipation and
Sluggish Liver
Don’t take chances. Get CARTER’S
LITTLE LIVER PILLS right now. They
never fail to make the liver
do its duty. Tney cure con-
stipation, banish indi-
gestion, drive out
biliousness and the
blues, stop dizzi-
ness, clear the
complexion,
puta healthy
glow on the
cheek and ■
M
Carters
WITTLE
lIVER
I PILLS.
sparkle in the eye. There are many imitations Be
sure and get CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. The
pill is small, dose is small, price is small, but results
are alright. The GENUINE must bear signature
r
i.Vf
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
J nf St *i ky 1 piece 0f paper over eacl i of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
M<r» n Seen +V° lav i e the appearance of 45 years of
‘tlf’ ) v h el 'eas the other half looks only 30 Dr It
Aden’s ((J.S.A.). Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years ol difference if vou are prrev or nrema
urdy erey. It is perfectly harmless, lasy to P ap™y
o? vnV l qmckly resto, e the H air to the natural shade
of youth, or younser years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S ( u S A .,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equallv suitable
for Ladies Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
»~“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants disrriV.ntinjr it can be obtained
bon, AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Hitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
P-VGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident
For Life Assurance on the Mutua
Society
Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban .Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
liebentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or N'ew
Zealand - WAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. K. J. Black,M.L.C. : The Hon. F. E. Winchoinbe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., li.C. ; Sir Alex. MaeCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: 11 ichard Teeee. F.I. \
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPEULY, Secretary. ”
Try
ii
this
i
s
7
Lift the outer walls of the nostrils as show:: above Then inhale vigorously through ,the
nostrils. Afterwards exhale, also through the nostrils Do both, of course , while holding the
nostrils wide open. The result will be nothing less than a surprising revelation of how the nasal
air-passages can be enabled to convey an increased supply of oxygen to the respiratory organs
HAVE YOU GOT
CATARRH ?
If you have a dropping: of phlegm into the throat,
If your nose is stopped up,
If crusts form in your nose,
If you are easily susceptible to colds,
If you suffer from frontal headaches,
If you have noises in the head,
If your hearing is affected,
If you have to clear your throat & expectorate often,
If a change in the weather affects you,
If you are a victim to shortness of breath,
If you sneeze frequently,
If your sense of smell is affected,
If you have a heavy, tired feeling on awaking,
If you suffer from a husky throat,
If you are affected with any of the above symptoms,
the chances are that you are suffering from
Catarrh. It is an exceedingly dangerous com-
plaint, and is so insidious that the sufferer hardly
realises how serious is his or her condition until
matters have reached an almost chronic stage.
Catarrh often begins with a cold in the head, but it never stops there.
Ihe simple cold becomes a protracted one, while the discharge from the
nose grows more profuse and uncomfortable.
The inflammation extends to the throat and bronchial tubes causing
hoarseness, a tickling sensation, and an aggravating cough. The matter
that is continually dropping hack into the throat finds its way into the
stomach, resulting in a distressing form of dyspepsia, nausea, and loss of
appetite and strength.
The catarrhal poisons are absorbed into the blood, and all the membranes
of the body become infected, and what was supposed to be a purely local
disease has become constitutional, deep-seated, and chronic, and may
eventually result in Deafness, Bronchitis, Asthma, Neuritis, Catarrh of
the Stomach, or that dread scourge of the human race, Consumption.
A Sample Bottle of “KAT-AR-AH” INHALANT
Free to Sufferers.
oJH at f r ’ ah f treatment for Catarrh is based on scientific principles,
and aims at the curing of the trouble on an entirely new and logical
tasis. I know it is right by personal experience—the best Catarrh
Remedy in existence and I am ready to prove it to you. Hundreds
ff: kl j°7 edg f e ltS w ) orth - JSo matter how many remedies you mav have
Treatment 01 COnSlder your case ho P el es3 until you have tried “Kat-ar-ah”
i?tf a r fa e L tha r t y °i7 may , prove the value of this Treatment to your own
FREE OF Cf7APCF P y n° U 7 U bott,e of “ Kat-ar-ah "Inhalant
I REE Ob CHARGE. It will give immediate relief to the inflamed
membranes, clear the head, convey health-giving, purifying and Tern,
destroying medicated air to the affected parts,* id cl eanteThe Sa
passages of the accumulated mucous. I will also send you a copy of my
new and interesting booklet-“Catarrh-it B Cause, Symptoms and
Treatment. Be sure to mention this paper when writing live " vour
full name and address, and enclose 3d. in stamps to cover cost’ of postage.
Send to-day. The trial bottle will he sent by return m‘' : l TTP’PT’Vp , p
HERDER, 2 Bridge-street. Sydney. } L HEEBLKT
Hunyadi Janos
Chronic Constipation is a common cause of anmmia, dyspepsia,
headache, mental trouble and many other ills.
For Chronic Constipation, Indigestion, Biliousness, Dyspepsia. Torpid
Liver. Piles and similar troubles, Nature has happily'furnished «
never-fading remedy. A systematic course of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water will effect a certain and most likely permanent cure.
1 o obtain lasting good results it is of course necessary to regulate
most carefully diet and other details or daily life
M
The Inky Way.
The Westminster Review (London) is dead, aged
80. England has no use, seemingly, for Radical
thought, expressed in well-printed, half-crown monthly-
volume form. The Westminster has been hard up
for years. It is over a decade since an Australian,
writing under the pen name of “E. Lowe,” sold it
a manuscript entitled “Australian Governors.” The
article appeared, months passed, and no payment
arrived; so he posted his account. A depressing
letter was the outcome. The editor wrote deploring
that (here wasn’t a pound available: he himself had
had no remuneration for two years. He enclosed a
list of the shareholders, however, and intimated that
it would not be a bad thing for “E. Lowe” to join
the distinguished company, by taking out the value
of his contributions in shares. Some of the names
were well known on the Australian side, among them
those of Carrington and Jersey, previous Governors
of N.S.W. And the list of past and present con-
tributors was distinguished, too. Half a century ago
the Review carried the work of the elder and younger
Mill, of Carlyle and Rrowning and George Eliot and
other literary giants.
“B.”: Thirtv-seven used to be mentioned as the
age-limit of the Australian journalist and literary
man, Marcus Clark and a few others having set a
bad example in this matter. Now 100 seems more
like the figure. Britton, of Launceston Examiner,
has just scored 85 ; and John Gale, though nearing
90, spins a leading article out Queanbeyan way as
spiritedly as when he ran the Spectator in Manly.
Charles Hardie Buzacoft is still in harness in Queens-
land. When a literarv man turns to some other
avocation there is no killing him in less than three
generations. Wentworth, the first to start a real
Australian journal, put 81 years behind him; and
Parkes. whose. Empire was the best paper of its
day, was with difficulty got under at 82 or there-
abouts. Gavan Duffy, who scintillated treasonably in the
Dublin Nation, scored 90, notwithstanding the ex-
citements of his Victorian nolitical career. John
Fairfax died early—at 73 —but then his life motto
was “Be moderate in all things.” And if vou want
further example's look at Rolf Boldrewood and Henry
Gullet and Gresley Lukin.
Still thev come. Another weekly has been born
in Wellington (M.L.). That makes 25 newspaper
publications in a city of 00,300 inhabitants. In the
whole of .Maoriland. there, are 237 newspaper publica-
tions, served out to a population of 1,115,000. Wel-
lington’s latest black-and-white pup is named John
Bull, Jnr.
“J.F.H.” : A veteran compositor of 84, named Mul-
vey, who has spent 70 years in London’s historic inky
way, which is Fleet-street, has been reminiscing.
When he started type-setting, comps., even in Lon-
don, had to work by candlelight. He began on the
Morning Chronicle, and handled the copy of a
couple of its reporters who won renown—Charles
Dickens and George Higinbotham, Victoria’s greatest
democrat and its Chief Justice. Professor Morris,
who wrote the biography of Higinbotham, could not
spot with any degree of c-ertaintv more than two or
three of his contributions to the Morning Chronicle,
This old cornu, could have put him on the track of
a lot more. From the Chronicle Mulvev passed to
the Daily Telegraph, then owned bv J. M. Lew,
father of the present proprietor, Lord Burnham. The
D.T. had been in low water and had been taken over
bv Levy in payment of a debt due bv the original
founder, Sergeant Sleigh. George Awstus Sala did
much to popularise the D.T. The old comp, calls
him “one of the greatest journalists the world has
ever known.” His writing was small, but very clear
and legible. There was hardlv ever an alteration
in the manuscript, and so uniform was it that the
comps, always knew that one of Sala’s limes would
make three of type.
“S.T.S.”: A new Australian novelist —at least, she
calls her 700 pages of metaphysics a novel —begins
with a “greeting to the four hundred and fortv and
four thousand having His Father’s name written in
their foreheads, and who follow the Lamb whither-
soever he goeth.” One may say—as Mark Twain
said when he inscribed a book to John Smith —that
if only each dedicatee buys a copy the success of
the work is assured.
* * * »
The London Times is now a penn’orth, and the
change is explained by the share register. Lord
Northcliffe—formerly Alfred Harmsworth, who
founded the Daily Mail—holds, along with his
friends, 260,686 ordinary and 76,350 preference
shares, while the Walter family, the original owners,
hold only 151,000 ordinary and 40,001 preference
shares. Northcliffe’s friends as aforesaid are his
brother-in-law Percy Burton, G. A. Sutton, Graham,
Nicholson and Caird.
The other clay a Victorian Bishop cele-
brated his golden sacerdotal and his silver
episcopal jubilees. Part of the consequent
celebration was a sermon preached by one
of his rectors at the cathedral. Here’s some
of it: —
There must have been great joy in Heaven when
the little child, Joseph Higgins, was baptised some
75 years ago; for as the angels rejoiced and sang
in the heavens when the Redeemer was born, so also
they rejoiced when the child of predilection, who was
destined to continue the work of redemption, was
born to become a great, holy and learned priest
and
But that’ll do for this week
THE LOVE-MONGERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ye come and ye warm jour ink-stained hands at the
heat of the flame divine,
And then rush off to sell your love at the price of
a thrum a line;
Poor little prating poets ! With your rhymes of the
“stars above”—
What do ye know of Heaven? What do ye know of
love?
If ever ye loved a maiden fair with the strong-souled
love of man,
Hid ye tear your thoughts into measured lines, or
make your affections scan?
If e’er from her lips the wine of life for a moment
ye stopped to drink,
Did ye dull its gold and send it flat with a dash of
printer’s ink ?
Surely the little god of love would count it the
crime of crimes
To tell the tale of his sacred sin in a tangle of
tawdry rhymes ;
As surely he’d turn his face to the wall with a long
last withering curse
On him who spoilt a kiss to ask: “Now, how Will it
look in verse?”
The men who sing of the purchased love they have
set on their shaky throne
Have sung the love of a straw-stuffed doll and
cherished it as their own.
And they tell of that which they never met, for
only their conscience knows
That the man who boasts that he loves in verse is
the man who lives in prose.
Ye come and ye warm your ink-stained hands at the
heat of the flame divine,
And then rush off to sell your love at the price of a
sprat a line—
Hut there's little room at the shrine of Love and
less at the shrine of Art
For him who fills his fountain-pen at the well of a
broken heart!
VICTORIA.
PETER.


The Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES.
H
I
G
n
Z'O
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
All shapes 3/- each (post free)
M
M
‘Goutiron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PRODUCED.
PIPES EVER
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/0, 12/0, 14/0, 10/0, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/0, 14/0, 10/0, 18/0, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
‘Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
M
Put up in cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11/6; 50 cigars, 22/6
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
Delightful, Fascinating
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Jhree Witches
TOBACCOS.
“Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug or
cut, 6/- per lb. (post free).
“XiOnus” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/6 per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Potxcbes
H
A
N
D
Y
mmm-
m
m
m
m
m
m
mMmmM
m
G
0
M
P
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9
~ Real Morocco .. 3/6
„ ~ Calf Crocodile .. 4/6
„ ~ Gazelle o/-
„ „ Velvet Calf 6/6
M
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver riin,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in case 4/* 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, sold rim, in
case *. 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
m
7z m h h race
Shaving Sets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C.U.B. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap ■
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
r> co
The “Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/6 each (post free).
Ivory Handle •••• 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Hay market, Sydney
Branches : CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
A
v/
21
m
, , J
H' 1 J
1 /.
\
w
WJmk
MVi
~Y>» is^
A>
>s&
STEVENS
Favorite, Marksman,
Crackshot, Little Scout
& Visible Loader Rifles
are highly suitable for every outdoor boy,
man and woman shooter. Unerringly accu-
rate —light, portable, take-down —made in
all standard small-bore calibres.
STEVENS KIFLiES, SHOTGUNS, PIS-
: ,TOLS, are for sale by all progressive
4 Dealers.
Write for general Catalogs—detailed infor-
mation, etc., to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
Q.P.O. box 86, Adelaide, South Australia. {•
All folk who know
what is good when they
taste, should at once taste
Birds
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Its delicious flavor and creamy
richness are simply a revelation!
Sold in Pkts., Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.— A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address, by
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpool Street, Sydney.
CIJSS.W.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co., Ltd.,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Gut Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine'S SILKNT FItIRND, Is 6d. Nf.D DONNKLLV’S ART
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, "is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bull’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle ok the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send lor List). Co-operative Commonwealth. l/G.
Joys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyiiook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. .Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus.. Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris. Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, Gd. Britain for the
Rritisii, Gd. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of Value, lsGd. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is Gd.
M
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain ianguage, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage. which makes it a superior guide to the action of men'and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20tn Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANV address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
l*-BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.^
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE
BUSINESS, iUTURITI, <stc., with full directions.
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skcrkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated Is 3d
That Rascal Gustave Is; post is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy Rivkp 4s
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic Is
posted. The White slave Traffic, is Evep<-
Man His Own Carpenter, is 3d. PvEady Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d Dosted. Letter Writfp Up-
To-Date, is 3d Dosted. Speeches and Toasts Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and nortraits Is * post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple mew), 4s ' 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannax’s Engine Dri ver.'s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 3J®T*Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-67 8t 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 13
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coar.es). Is 3d posted. Crevasse s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr. Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors. Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted- The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


m
m
From M. and May Moore, photo.
MISS ELWYN HARVEY,
The Talented and Charming Young Artiste, PRAISES
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
I wish to tell you how much benefit I have received from the use of Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery. In my work my throat often becomes irritated from strain
and theatre dust, and often it would be impossible for me to go through my part
if it were not for the benefit I get from a dose or two of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discov-
ery. Also, on two occasions I have been so unfortunate as to contract a heavy cold,
and on each of these occasions Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery helped me at once, and
soon rid me entirely of the trouble.
I think there is nothing like it, and always have a bottle at home, for during the
coming winter I look to it as my safeguard against the throat chills contracted so
easily when leaving the heated dressing-room, and going into the chilly night air.
I assure you I will always recommend it to all my friends.
Yours sincerely, (Signed) ELWYN HARVEY.
SAFEGUARDS FROM WINTER ILLS.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is an unequalled preparation for the
immediate relief of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including Influenza,
Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult Respiration and
Pains in the Chest.- When used according to directions is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and
Consumption. Every bottle guaranteed. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.
De Sheldons
NewDiscover\
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
IS
:w«S
> TM y '
Alt
marnih
H
IK
NW
m
Kephaldol, the new-found remedy for pain,
is the product of one of the Continent’s most
famous specialists.
Kephaldol is sure, quick-acting, and kills
pain without the risk of any harm to those
who use it. Unlike other remedies used for
Headache, Neuralgia, Neuritis, etc.,
Kephaldol does not affect or depress the
heart action. It is safe to use in large
or small doses. Doctors by the hundreds
have reported it to be unequalled for the
above troubles, as well as for Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Painful Menstruation and nerve
pains generally.
It is guaranteed under the Pure Pood Act
1908 of N.S.W., and no other painkiller has
the endorsement of the medical profession
enjoyed by Kephaldol.
ACZ/O
What the British
Doctors have said:
“ I find Kephaldol a very useful
product; It acts well in my case
as an antineuralgic and antihid-
rotic.”
—Dr. J. Prentice, Birkenhead.
“ In one case of Neuralgia the
relief from pain was very rapid,
and the patient was highly pleased
with the treatment.”
—Dr. S. P. Hyam, Edinburgh.
“ Having used Kephaldol in
several cases of painful menstru-
ation, I am able to say that it
proves of service. In one case it
acted almost magically, as also in
one of Facial Neuralgia, where the
usual treatment had failed.”
—Dr. W. Lock, Hull.
Sold in Tubes by Chemists and Storekeepers. Prices 1/6 and 3/6.
M
12 TABLETS
(5 Grains each )
M
Kephaldol
.QUICK CUBE FOR WEADACHEjrcUUAUUAXEUarnS.
WnAJENZA, RHEUMATISM, LUMBACO.SCIATKIPAIKFUL
MENSTRUATION. FEYTRS. ALL SEVERE NERVE KAIMI
PRICE VG
If any difficulty in procuring locally, a tube will be sent post free direct by the
Manufacturers upon receipt of postal note to value of tube desired.
Kephaldol Co., 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
KL 4800
Progress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We have advanced in a manner undreamt of by the
leaders of ancient civilisation. —Daily Press.
f HE pomp of fifty jam tins in a row,
I The crowded tram that rages down the
street,
The trim suburban cottages that show
Their fierce red tiles against the haze of
heat,
The lace-up boots that guard the public feet,
These, with some trousers, parsons, hats and
stays
Attest the progress of these wondrous days.
The ancient City of the Violet Crowm,
Where Plato walked as Chidley does to-day,
And Mrs. Phryne had some slight renown
For rounded limbs and glances archly gay,
Is very, small potatoes in its way—
In fact, in all its years it never knew
That anywhere on earth potatoes grew.
But we, with postage stamps and penny
fares,
And tinned asparagus, and picture shows,
And worn linoleum on the kitchen stairs,
Have very decent reason to suppose
Our swift advance has put the straight old
nose
Of Athens out of joint, the while we soar
Higher than any people got before.
Thebes, the broad city of a hundred gates,
Piled up her temple palaces of stone ;
But we have lamp-posts, garbage tins and
grates,
Steam-laundries, buttons and the telephone ;
Our fame the very lamps of night make
known,
For anyone who owns a pair of eyes
Can see how splendidly we advertise.
Rome had her fame. Her stiff brass legions
slew
Much dirt before the eagles of her might;
To west and east her roads and bridges grew
And alien peoples learned the bath’s delight;
Yet were her best achievements somewhat
slight,
For in all Rome you simply could not get
A box of matches or a cigarette.
Statues and pictures, poetry and song
Are useful decorations in their way ;
But turkey trots and ragtime help along
The fresh young world in which we live to-
day.
They represent our Progress at its play,
And when we feel that we require to laugh
We put a record in the phonograph.
Yes. in the long procession of the years,
Undoubtedly we hold the foremost place;
Our soda waters and our lager beers
Do credit to the rising human race.
We look all ancient peoples in the face
And roundly challenge Rome and Greece to
show
A morning paper like the ones we know !
The world goes round. We wander up and
down,
And with a splendid scorn the past deride.
Holman orates, the evening beer is brown.
And we have large occasion for our pride.
The simple statement cannot be denied
That in respect to scissors, paste and string
No perished age can teach us anything.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.
The Brothers of Mount Rest.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MRS. BELLEVUE, the stout, fair wife
of the eminent Iv.C. of that name,
passed her visitor a cup of tea and
took up the dropped thread of her discourse.
“Oh, I thought everyone knew of the Bro-
thers of Mount Rest! My dear, it’s the
most splendid idea, and Howard’s nerves have
been ever so much better since he joined.
It’s a sort of week-end rest-cure started by
an American gentleman—a Mr. Iv. Stan-
thorpe Potts. I can’t explain all the details,
dear, but everybody wears monks’ dresses
from Saturday to Monday, and nobody talks
more than is necessary, and there are walks
in the grounds and choir singing, or else you
can read an improving book, or do some work
for the poor. The Home, you know, is that
lovely old abbey place that rich Jabberson,
the ironmonger, built out in the wilds of
Gloomsome Hills before he went insol-
vent and committed suicide. It’s just the
place for the ‘monastic rest cure,’ as they
call it. I’m just wild to see over the place,
and Howard is dreadfully keen to study up
and be promoted to Choir B—that’s the
higher grade, you know. He is in Choir A
now, and has to study the most dreadfully
difficult books. Mr. Stanthorpe Potts is most
particular, and will not allow any of Choir
A to mix with the B’s. They are kept
entirely separate from the moment they enter
on Saturday evening to the time they leave
on Monday. In fact, I believe, they leave
at different times, so they never get a chance
of meeting. I don’t know very much about
it, because Howard is under a solemn vow
not to divulge any of the secrets of the place.
What I have told you I have just had to dig
out of him. Oh! I had almost forgotten!
You know that man Wagglin who was em-
ployed here for a little while? Well. I
believe the poor fellow is there doing kitchen
work. Now do let me give you another cup
of tea! That’s right, my dear! One or two
lumps?”
* * * *
The Home motor whirred up to the main
door of the Abbey with the Brother it had
brought from the wayside station. A cowled
figure stood on the threshold. “Welcome,
Brother Bellevue,” it cried in good American,
and deftly relieved the plain-clothes member
of the heavy suit-case he carried. “How goes
the outside world?”
Bellevue sighed gratefully as the great
door swung open and the cool silence of the
high, stone-flagged hall enveloped them.
“Noisy as ever, Brother Potts. I’m very
e-lad to get away from it and back to my
cell.”
Brother Potts patted him encouragingly on
the shouldex-. “That’s the right spirit. Peace
—good works —reflection. You have found
nothing better than the watchwords of the
order, Brother?”
"Nothing!” sighed the plain clothes mem-
ber.
"Good ! Now, I guess you will find every-
thing ready in your cell. Brother Richard
will carry your bag up for you. Meditations
are at eight, Brother.”
“Very well, Brother,” returned the novice,
and, handing his suit-case to the habited
underling, he panted up the carpeted stair-
case in his wake.
“The Abbey” (Stantliorpe Potts had given
the place the title after purchasing it) was
a beautifully appointed Gothic mansion sur-
rounded by acres of grounds and close handy
to a State forest. From the second-floor
windows the Brothers looked over miles of
treetops. No woman was ever allowed inside
the place, and it had all the restful privacy
of a good club without a good club's dissipa-
tions. That was how Bellevue described the
place in his confidential conversations with
trusted friends.
On reaching his “cell” —actually a well but
plainly-furnished room —he washed his face
and hands and changeu into his habit. Then
he sighed once more, and opened the
immense, leather-bound tome lying ready on
the table. The contents consisted of soothing
passages selected by Potts from a modern
American author who specialises in soul-
stirring. lie had just read and meditated on
“Look Into Yourself —search your heart for
Doubt, and be Valiant,” when the great bell
in the tower clanged three times —the signal
for the evening meal.
Closing the book, he walked softly on san-
dalled feet from the darkened room and
joined the cowled procession passing noise-
lessly down the lamp-lit stairs to the Choir A
refectory. He spoke to nobody and nobody
spoke to him. Mr. Potts had adopted, as far
as practicable, the Trappist rule of silence,
for he held that the manufacture of small
talk was one of the greatest of modern evils
and one of the chief causes of brain exhaus-
tion. The Choir B Brothers were understood
to enjoy more license ; but those of Choir A
were strictly enjoined to speak only when it
was absolutely necessary. The consequence
was that the members of Choir A were not
even acquainted with one another, for they
sat at meals or study and went to and fro
merely as animated habits. Bellevue, sitting
at his numbered place at meals, knew that
the little brother on his right had an irritat-
ing habit of clicking his teeth, and that the
fat brother on his left had clumsy red hands
and a black moustache. But there his know-
ledge ended. He did not know their names,
and could not have identified them in their
ordinary clothes.
That night, as he ate the plain but excel-
lent food served round by the cowled steward-
brothers, Bellevue heard a lot of muffled
laughter. It seemed to come from the other
side of the dividing wall, and he decided that
the B refectory must be in that direction.
It had a grateful sound, and he looked round
distastefully at the dumb and sombre figures
surrounding the board. Sometimes the silence
and restraint of Choir A depressed him
and made him long for the time when, hav-
ing progressed sufficiently in nerve-control,
he should be promoted to the jolly and soci-
able side of the house.
The silent brothers, as they finished their
meal, rose and glode away to their various
evening employments without saying a word
to those who remained. Bellevue, being
moodier than usual, sat long over his food,
and was, in consequence, the only one left
at table when the stewards came to clear
away. Some very discouraging part-singing
broke out as the collection of dirty dishes
was being taken up. The twelve “singing”
brothers had started their evening practice,
and, as Brother Bellevue knew, there would
not be an end of it for two long hours.
He sighed heavily inside his cowl, and was
about to rise when the steward nearest him
edged along and whispered hoarsely, “Good
evenin’, Mr. Bellevue!”
“Who’s thatf” gasped the startled recluse.
The steward, under pretence of piling some
plates, swung round and faced him. Brother
Bellevue discerned inside the other cowl the
face of Wagglin, his late man of all work.
“I bin tryin’ ter get a word with you this
lars’ two week-ends, sir,” he breathed. “I
wanter tell yer” A plate rattled at the
other end of the room, and he looked round
to assure himself that he had not been de-
tected breaking the rule of silence. “I
wanter tell yer somethin’ erbout this 'ere
place! There’s somethin’ dead wrong, sir!
Lars’ night I ’card.. . .See yer later, sir !. ..
Don’ mix up with th’ crowd ter-night, sir
.... Keep outer th’ way and wait fer me!
Look out!” He grabbed his pile of dishes
and evaporated just as one of the other
stewards approached.
Brother Bellevue, now thoroughly un-
settled, rose from his chair and rustled from
the room wondering what information it was
the depraved Wagglin had to impart. He
felt certain in his own mind that it must be
either a murder or a scandal. There could
be no rest for him now until he knew exactly
what it was. But where was he to wait?
He went to pass along to the hall where the
brothers were meditating. As he moved off
a habit and cowl bumped into him and a
voice hissed, “Keep outer there! They’ll
lock yer in ! Keep out, I tell yer!”
Brother Bellevue jumped, and the habit
and cowl scuttled away and disappeared
round a corner.
Where could he go to? Disregarding the
clang of the bell that called to meditations,
he made his way shrinkingly upstairs to-
wards his cell, eyeing narrowly every monk-
ish figure that drifted past him. The groan-
ing of the alleged “singing” brothers pur-
sued him all the way like a prolonged and
dismal curse. At the top of the staircase he
paused irresolutely and looked about him.
Every now and then a cowled figure went by
mysteriously like a challenging riddle. It
was practically impossible to distinguish be-
tween them in the dim light, and he came
at Inst to the state of mind when he felt con-
vinced that it was the same figure all the
time. It only needed another shock to quite
unsettle him. and in due course it arrived.'*
A cowl and habit shuffled along which he
felt sure contained Wagglin. He moved
along, and. judging his distance nicely,
shouldered it sufficiently to necessitate 'a
whispered apology. At the impact the other’s
habit swung open and revealed a glimpse of
(Continued on next page.)


Affects tHe Whole System
No patient can live more than a few hours when
the kidneys cease to act.
For the kidneys are the blood-filters. When
they fail to act the blood is left in a poisoned state.
The heart, the lungs, the digestive organs, the
brain and the nervous system all have to depend
upon the blood for their nourishment, and they
cannot be nourished by poisoned blood. That is
why kidney trouble is so serious—the vital organs
are always liable to become involved.
The earlier symptoms of weak kidneys are:
Patient feels very drowsy, heavy and irritable; the
sight is affected and there may be headache.
Later, the watery swellings of dropsy appear, there
is pain in the loins and back, or patient gets rheu-
matism. Nearly every case is accompanied by
some disturbance of the urinary system, such as
irregularity in action, gravel, or stone.
The advanced forms of kidney disease are not
curable, but in the earlier stages Doan's Backache
Kidney Pills often prove invaluable. Many bad
cases of dropsy, stone, stoppage caused by obstruc-
tion of the channels, rheumatism and lumbago
have been completely cured by this remedy, and
patients have reported themselves still well many
years later. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills arouse
sluggish kidneys to a natural activity, enabling
them to keep the blood properly filtered and to
throw off the poisonous uric acid and waste water,
which cause so much mischief when left too long in
the system.
* Every
Picture
Tells a
Story.”
\
KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
PROM DRUMMOYNE
JNlrs. Francis Connolly, .10 Itoseby Street, Drummoyne,
says :—“For several years 1 was troubled a lot with a weak
back, caused, 1 think, through my kidneys being out .of
order. 1 was not actually iii pain, but always telt tired
and worn out, and had no energy for anything. I was
also subject to bad headaches and dimness of sight. A
doctor prescribed for me, but I derived no benefit from
his treatment; in fact, as time went on 1 seemed to be
getting worse instead of better. One day I was advised
to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and, although I
little thought they would cure me, 1 got a bottle, and
commenced taking them, carefully following the direc-
tions. After a few days I felt better, so I continued with
the remedy, and a thorough course completely cured me.
I am still well, and have had no occasion to take any
Pills since my cure was effected. I strongly advise all
who suffer from kidney trouble to use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills.”
Mrs. Connolly confirms the above 32 months after: —
“Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did their work well in my
case, for I have had no sign of kidney disorder since the
Pills cured me over a year ago.”
FROM PADDINGTON
Mr. J. 11. Pelgrave, 45 Gipps Street, Paddington,
Sydney, writes: —"l think it my duty to say. for the
benefit of other sufferers from weak kidneys and urinary
trouble, that I have found nothing so effectual for these
ailments as Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I hope
the publishing of this testimonial will be the means of
benefiting many. Nearly all my life I. have suffered a
lot from weak kidneys and urinary trouble, and have
taken all sorts of medicines in the hope of finding a
cure, but none of them did me any good. I have also
been under medical men, but their treatment also failed
to benefit me in any way. I was alvised to take a course
of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I am delighted to
tell you these pills cured me, and I feel in better
health now than 1 have done for years. I cannot praise
this remedy sufficiently for the good it has done me.”
Two years later Mr. Pelgrave says : —Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of kidney trouble over two years
ago, and I have still the same good opinion of this grand
remedy.”
DOAN'S
Backache
PIUS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all chemists and stores at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free on receipt of price
from Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
evening dress. And the other spoke, rapidly
and harshly in the voice of Brother Potts:
"Keep these d —d fools in A locked up and
get ’em on choir practice. If They come,
we’ll make ’em look like thirty cents, that’s
all! I’ll go in now to the boys in B and
start biz.” He passed on, and Brother
Bellevue shrank into the shadows. He could
not imagine who “They” were, and he was
uot quite clear who was to be made look
“like thirty cents.” But he knew now, on
Ihe authority of Totts himself, that the
Brothers in A were regarded as d —d fools,
and that B division was full of “boys” carry-
ing on some sort of business to which the
head went attired in evening dress.
The dismal exercises of the singing
brothers were still making the night fearful;
but the cowled figures had ceased to pass to
and fro. A jingle of keys was heard down-
stairs and a couple of locks snapped. Then
the keys jingled away, and the house was
as much at peace ns the attempted choristers
would allow. Bellevue, flattened against tin'
wall on the dark landing, reflected bitterly
that no train would pass the wayside station
until Monday morning, and that there was
no possible chance for a man of his weight
to walk the distance to the nearest junction.
He felt utterly alone and ridiculous.
Suddenly a far door slammed and a cowl
and habit bounded up the stairs as if pur-
sued by the Devil.
Bellevue jumped out of his retreat, and
the flying figure gasped. “ There you are !
Bun!” A canvas bag fell at Bellevue’s feet.
He snatched it up and set off after the flying
brother. Upstairs they sped, the K.C. gain-
ing at every bound. They reached the third
floor in record time, and rushed down a pas-
sage neck and neck. When the leader threw
himself against a door. Bellevue also hurled
his stout person at the same target.
But, to his amazement and horror, the
other emitted a curse and shouldered him
roughly back. “Not here, you fool! Get
back, or they’ll nail you ! RUN !”
Bellevue realised with a sick sensation that
lie was involved in some dangerous enter-
prise. “Get back ! GET BACK !” hissed
the furious stranger, and slipped inside the
room. The door slammed and the key
turned.
Bellevue went thoughtfully down the
stairs, the mysterious bag clutched to his
chest. As he . reached his landing, another
cowl and habit rushed at him waving its
sleeves and hissing, “Git.upstairs, sir! Git
upstairs!” Bellevue, his breath coming in
loud sobs, wheeled again and charged up
the staircase like a failing warhorse. Tim
breathing of Wagglin toiling behind him
sounded like an old gas engine.
When they struggled to the top landing
Wagglin flung himself flat on the floor and
half threw his late employer. Quite
exhausted, they lay side by side on the
carpet and fought for breath... .
“Gawd !. . . .that. . . .was a run !” Wagglin
gasped thankfully, and dragged himself to
where he could peer over the edge of the
landing into the hall below. “What. .. .
didger run upstairs fer?”
Bellevue raised himself on one elbow and
whispered faintly, “1.... followed.... some-
one I thought was you !”
was it?” breathed the anxious
\\ agglin. “Didger see ’is face, sir?”
“Didn’t see liis face at all! He
told me to run and gave me this!” The
canvas bag was. pushed cautiously along the
carpet. Wagglin touched it with his hand
and stifled a cry of alarm.
“What’s the matter now?”
My Gawd, sir! That mus’ be some of th’
munney!”
“What money?”
; r yt agglin squirmed nearer and hissed.
That's what I wanted ter tell yer. All
this ’ere singin’ an’ muck is nothin’ but a
blind, sir. This ain’t a monkery reely—it’s
a igh-class gamblin’ ’ell. Yous gennelmun
in A sorter. covers up tli’ doins in B, sir.
You're jus’ ere ter bluff th’ pleece if there’s
a raid. One of tli’ kitchen blokes gimme th’
tip a couple o’ weeks ago. I bin waitin’ ter
git a eharnce ter tell yer.”
“Is this true?” demanded Brother Belle-
vue wildly.
"True, sir! I give yer me word it’s orl
true!”
“Then, by Heaven, I’ll give information to
the police ! I’ll not be made a fool of by”—
Wagglin pulled desperately at his sleeve to
make him modulate his voice. “It’s too late,
sir—at least, I am afraid it is. I ’ear they’ve
been expectin’ a raid f’r th’ larst two weeks,
an’ I swear blind I seen two pleecemen down
th’ road this mornin’. They was pertendin’
to be ’awkers, but I knows a John when I
sees one. No, Mr. Bellevue, sir, we gutter
try an’ keep outer th’ way ter-night, an’ be
ready ter do a git if there’s trouble. You
wouldn’t look well as a monk in gaol, sir.”
“What about this money, then?”
“Blimey! I was fergettin’ erbout that!
It’s a mix-up. I believe Brother Potts had
arranged with the chief archbishop to get
away with the funds before the pleece came,
and either Potts took you for the archbishop
or the archbishop took you for Potts.”
“That’s it, Wagglin!” whispered the old
K.C. “How are we to get rid of it? Can
you think of anything? We mustn’t be
caught with it, you know. We would be
roughly handled.”
“You bet yer life we would !” shivered the
servitor. “Lemme think now!” He re-
lapsed into silence and hard breathing.
Bellevue lay on liis chest and stared down
into the hall.
At last Wagglin spoke—in the usual
hoarse whisper. “It’s no use, sir! We’ll
jus’ ’ave ter chuck it downstairs ! ’Ere goes!”
A bag containing about 2000 sovereigns
soared over the banisters and flashed down-
ward into the hall. It hit the great Chinese
gong in the centre and produced a perfectly
deafening series of sounds —first a sort of
metallic yell warranted to make anyone jump,
then a long roll of musical thunder that
made the whole house vibrate.
As the thunder trailed away into an angry
buzzing, a door flung open, and the voice of
Brother Potts shrieked, “Who’s makin’ that
Ghardam noise?” There was no answer.
But a second or so later there was a second
and a wilder yell. “Th’ safe’s been robbed !
Gee! there’s been a Ghardam rabbery!
Thieves, Boys! Thieves!” Sounds of men
running were heard, and the silpnt watchers
upstairs were aware that the lights in the
hall had been turned up. An ever-increasing
crowd of disturbed gamblers in habits and
cowls poured into the hall through the door
opened by the enraged Potts, who was danc-
ing about in evening dress, flourishing in one
hand the recovered bag of money and in the
other a large revolver. The murmuring
gamblers eyed this display of energy with
approbation, and roared appreciatively when
he cried, “Pull out these lop-eared rest-curers
and we’ll dahm soon find out who got away
with the boodle! Pull ’em out!”
They were pulled out from their medita-
tions with all speed, and very astonished
they looked on finding the hall full of raging
brothers who cursed and shouted about
money. The habits and cowls quickly
mingled in one tossing, shouting sea of
brown cloth, which presently began to heave
tumultously and fight itself, in spite of the
demented efforts of Potts to restore order,
or enough order to enable him to do a little
cross-examining. Plainly the bag of cash
flung lo Mr. Bellevue had been only a por-
tion of the loot.
It was at this uproarious moment that the
front door began to shudder beneath a furi-
ous and thunderous assault.
“Th’ police!” yelled a stout brother, and
the crowd in an instant ceased wrangling
and fled like rats from the threatened portal,
Some of the most panicky at first bounded
upstairs; but. seeing the others streaming
towards the dark back regions, they turned
back and fled after them. Furniture and
ornaments fell and crashed as the stampeded
rest-curists and gamblers flowed away
together like a receding tide. The attack
on the front door grew fiercer.
“What can we do?” wailed Brother Belle-
vue on the dark landing.
Wagglin scrambled up. “I was only wait-
in’ till they got clear, sir! Come on with
me before that door goes! I know a wav
out!” '
They flitted down the stairs, shivering at
every crashing axe-stroke on the stout, iron-
bound door. They noticed a distinct smell
of burning as they passed A refectorv, but
of course could not stop to investigate,
Wagglin went on unswervinglv up and down
dark corridors, and presently they came to a
small side door. The key was found in the
lock, and. in a second or so, they were out-
side, with dark shrubberies all around and
the calm, cold stars overhead. “This way,
sir !” hissed the guide. They trotted along
a pitch-dark overgrown path, got through a
post-and-rail fence, and found themselves
plodding through heavy ground.
“Must rest a bit!” gasped Bellevue, whose
knees were going underneath him. He sank
down thankfully with one hand on a dew-
wet cabbage. Wagglin subsided without a
word on the next vegetable.
Sounds of riot and panic came faintly to
them across the cool night, and once they
heard the report of a revolver. The upstairs
portion of the mansion was dim, but several
of the downstairs windows were golden with
light.
“What’s that glare downstairs?” asked
Bellevue.
Wagglin emerged cautiously from his cab-
bage and gazed at the illumination. “W’y.
the ’ouse is on fire!” he moaned. “They
muster upset some of them lamps. Blimey !
there she goes!” As he spoke, flames burst
from the heat-cracked windows, and thick
smoke rolled out. “They’ll never git it out!
There ain’t no water ’ere !” Fascinated by
the spectacle, they lay low and watched the
rapid progress of the fire until it had fairly
caught the top floors and started to light up
the neighborhood in a dangerous way. They
suddenly found themselves lying in a blaze
of light, and Wagglin with a cry of fear
besought his late employer to get up anti
resume his flight,
“Why didn’t we bring my suit-case?”
moaned* the habited K.C.
“No good, sir! We couldn’t run with an
’eavy thing like time!” He seized Bellevue’s
arm, and. despite breathless protests, started
to run him across the vegetable garden,
“I—can’t—run any more!....Too—done
up!”
“Come on, sir! There’s—pony in stable
—down ’ere!”
They blundered on into the dark and
presently came to a. dark outbuilding. “Wait
a jiff!” muttered Wagglin, and disappeared
utterly. Bellevue leant against the slab wall
and longed for brandy. Then Wagglin ap-
peared or loomed up, leading a four-footed
shadow which turned out to be a fat, docile
pony saddled with a bag and arrayed in a
halter. He helped the incoherently grateful
Bellevue to mount and directed him to hold
on as lightly as possible by the mane. That
done, they started off into the wilderness of
the night, two monkish wayfarers travelling
in simple ancient fashion towards safety,
* * * *
Just after dawn an early ploughman.
twenty miles away over the hills, heard a
nervous coo-ee from the fence, and turning
saw a couple of drooping monks, one of
whom was seated on a fat pony,
He lounged across and heard with sur-
prise that Mount Rest had been burnt down
the previous evening soon after he had re-
tired to bed.
‘T’m real sorry to ear it,” he drawled in
simple country friendliness. Rather to his
surprise, the two brothers received the re-
mark with weary indifference. The one on
the pony made some earnest inquiries about
the possibility of getting a breakfast and
some ordinary clothes.
“Right yer are!” said the ploughman
heartily, and let down the sliprails for them,
The worn-out travellers entered and allowed
themselves to be piloted across the field to a
little house on a hill, from the chimney of
which blue smoke was spiralling into, the
s t’H air.
At the door, the mounted brother gradu-
ally unloaded himself from the pony with
numerous groans.
The ploughman watched him sympatheti-
cally. “Bit stiff, brother, ain’t yer?”
Exhausted as he was, Bellevue turned on
him. “Don’t call me brother!” he entreated,
The ploughman, who was a man of some
reading,, looked very abashed. “Beg pardon,
air, I think I understand. I didn’t know
what you was up to at first goin’ about that
way; but I suppose now this is what these
’ere books calls ‘travellin’ incog.,’ so ter
speak?”
KODAK.


a Westinghouse
Oil Engine
For STATIONARY
and MARINE
PURPOSES
n
.r
From 7 to 40 H.P.
No Carburetter or Vaporiser.
No Ignition Apparatus.
Makes the following claims upon
your attention —
1, —It uses cheap lamp oil (such as kero-
sene), and other residuals.
2 The oil is injected directly into the
cylinder, thus dispensing with unre-
liable and inefficient vaporisers.
3 It is very simple in construction, there
being no electric ignition or other
complicated mechanism.
4 its speeds are such that electric generators
and centrifugal pumps may be coupled
direct.
5 No skilled labor is required, the supply
of fuel and lubricant being all the
attention necessary.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
The Westinghouse Brake Company of Australasia Ltd.,
GEORGE STREET, CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensla.net Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane,
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington.
M
BOUNDER
SPECIAL
CUTTERS.
[J ■
MM
J
*
For aU classes of Repetition Work, tonguing and grooving, flooring and
lining, moulding and any special detail.
Can be adapted to any make of machine by means of adjustable bushings.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GORDON PAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO. Pty.Ltd.
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Sturt St., S. Melbourne.
O'jPiU.
1 01
RUWiELY TRACTOR.
Works continuously on CHEAPEST Kerosene
BORING CONTRACTORS
and MANUFACTURERS.
Armstrong Traction and All-Steel Boring
Machines, Tools and Casing in stock.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines, Wind-
mills, Pumps, Silos, Hay Presses,
Wagons, etc., etc.
REMINGTON
UMC
M
3
nV
For sals by leading
dealers everywhere
22 Repeatin'
the ideal
hunting arm
,A well-built, .22 cal. repeating rifle will
give you many a good day’» «port on small
game. Your only care is to see that the
accuracy of the rifle you buy the power
of the cartridge it can handle—do not
limit your success.
Ask to see the new Remington-
UMC .22 cal. Repeater, hand-
ling the powerful .22 long rifle,
as well as the .22 short and .22
long cartridge.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P- O. Box 656 Melbourne
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide , for everything
Australian.
M
IT IS A WISE PRECAUTION
to take the greatest care of your health. In order to do this
effectually it is necessary from time to time to take a few doses
of the right medicine—one that will regulate and tone up the
digestive system. There ought to be no difficulty in deciding
what that is. The verdict in favour of Beecham’s Pills is
overwhelming. Many people find it an excellent plan
TO TAKE
them periodically. They are the remedy, par excellence, for
cleansing the system from impurities and ensuring a correct and
regular action of the important organs of digestion, assimilation,
and execretion. Vigour of body and mind, are the portion only
of the healthy. Remember, then, that health may be established
and maintained by the use of that old and well-tried remedy—
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
bjWmm
o*
-■-r.
A
tXCESSWh
SAWMILLERS,
Builders & Joiners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 Marßet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy middleman’s commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you ana
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 70£>1.
CASH OR TERMS. CATALOGUES FREE.
A
\
#
w»
I
////>
03
M
WORLD OVER
I_IOW much longer are you going
to keep on coaxing that razor of
yours —stropping it, fussing with it,
making your face sore and tender
into the bargain ?
Get a Gillette Safety Razor to-day. It is the
one razor for cool,quick,clean,efficient shaving.
The shave you want and ought to have.
You can adjust the Gillette to suit your beard and
skin. You cannot do this with any other razor.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write
for illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please, mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE {SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HOMING
Safety
Razor


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Your Bi
Transmits
that
Counts, x
£
Jr
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
s Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
WOLFE’S
I
M
Schnapps
M
M
Every
Engineer
Knows
That to run a Steam Plant Economically
you must have Dry Steam. The only
efficient method to adopt to ensure your
steam being free from water is to lead
the water with the steam to a proper
collector, and discharge it through a
Steam Trap. But you must have a Trap
that is Reliable and does not Leak.
THE “SENTINEL”
High Pressure STEAM TRAP
Is Tested to 2501 b. Pressure, and is guaranteed
to remain tight even after much use.
LET US SEND YOU PARTICULARS.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Pluming,
Patent “ Neiyambo” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Pluming, Casting&, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works : Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
D
£‘<
W
<*Ar : '|gg
t pays you to
9
i
W.S
m
Jointers, Band Saws, Swing Saws, etc.
■
The name Is a guarantee of quality and accuracy. Their
efficiency has been proved by years of practical use, and that
is one of the reasons why critical users everywhere recom-
mend a “SILVER.” There are other reasons, too; and
these are fully explained in Catalogue. Write and tell us of
your woodworking requirements, or call and inspect.
<SI lacy
and Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence Street,
• f
SYDNEY.
m
' iv<
m
m
Showing Method of
Mixing Ingredients,
>7
a
3
ulsn
M
(Patent Explosive Compound)
The Cheapest Farm help.
WILL blast trees and stumps—break hard pan—dig ditches—subsoil, etc.
Now being used successfully by Agriculturists and Vignerons throughout Australia.
Ask for our Illustrated Pamphlet, giving full particulars and instructions for use.
No Magazine required. Forwarded as ordinary merchandise.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-
N. 6UTHRIP6E Ll^
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
_ . _____ : :
