

the Whisky of Sterling Value
R. G. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 li»ent Street, Sydney,
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
Oil all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
TERMS AND LOWEST
N-5-W- MONT DE
D
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at
STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
hobajeit.
Ijadley s Orient (jotel.
RICHARDSON'S
Wine 8 Spirit
Stores,
68 Market St.,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
Bottle, Case or
Callon at
Wholesale Price [3
9
[ oaco
m
4
*
TaKe it back.
1 must have -
HUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand
»
CHUBBS
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
I'UI
lltil
iiftii
■
■B
I.EI
«a
B
D.
:
o
il
a*
HQI
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
itKTZEHSS
J
unket
a
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Q
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
t
fit
I
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
SUPERIOR
EVERY WAY.
m
Panel your Rooms with
With the help of Amiwud you can get the effect of the Old English Panelled Rooms—at a fraction of the Cost.
AMIWXTD is a reproduction of the hardwoods —a perfect reproduction both of the grain and the color. You have your
choice of Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany and Jenisero. It conies in sheets that can be tacked to the existing walls
or to the studs of a new building. Anybody can put it up—you can do it yourself. May we send you samples?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO.
Manufacturers \
of malthoid;
Challis House, Sydney
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager.
BULLOCH LADES
WHISKIES
B.L
GOLD LABEL
EXTRA
SPECIAL
WHITE LABEL s.v.o,
«hii Of sniff
fSHQICE -J 4
BaCON^JjAIHs
Telegraphic Address—BACoN, Murarrle, Queensland
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1805.]
[Thursday, September 17, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


&/>e WAYFARERS’ LIBRARY
Anstey’s Baboo Jabberjee, 8.A.; Boothby’s Lost Endeavor; Besant and Rice, Chaplain of the Fleet;
Daudet’s Kings in Exile; Dobson’s Eighteenth Century Studies; Gibbofn’s Adventures of Miss Gregory;
Jackson’s Southward Ho! : Letters from Dorothy Osborne to Sir William Temple; Paul’s Queen Anne;
Q.’s Astonishing History of Troy Town; Pett-Ridge’s The Wickhamses; Russell’s Round the Galley Fire;
Shorter’s Brontes and their Circle; Sidgwick’s The Professor’s Legacy; Stevenson’s St. Ives; Stackpoole’s
Pools of Silence; Watson’s Rosalind in Arden ; Weyman’s Castle Inn; Zangvvill’s Children of the Ghetto.
These are fine reprints of some of the best writers. In handy size for pocket.
PRICE 1/3, posted 1/5 per volume.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP'T’Y LTD., 23* PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing and Preserving, the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Germicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but
cleanses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for, the teeth
can do, or will do, without affecting the Tooth Enamel.
BECAUSE the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preseiving the teeth.
Sold at Chemists and Stores, price 1/6.
HOW TO USB THI POWDER
The Red Page
HEAVEN.
Fish (fly-replete, in depth of June,
Dawdling away their watery noon)
Fonder deep wisdom, dark or clear,
Each secret fishy hope or fear.
Fish say, they have their Stream and Pond,
But is there anything Beyond$
This life cannot be All, they swear,
For how unpleasant if it were!
One may not doubt that, somehow, Good
Shall come of Water and of Mud;
And, sure, the reverent eye must see
A purpose in Liquidity.
We darkly know, by Faith we cry,
The future is not Wholly Dry.
Mud unto mud! —Death eddies near —
Not here the appointed End, not here!
But somewhere, beyond Space and Time,
Is wetter water, slimier slime!
And there (they trust) there swimmeth One
Who swam ere rivers were begun,
Immense, of fishy form and mind,
Squamous, omnipotent, and kind;
And under that Almighty Fin
The littlest fish may enter in.
Oh! never fly conceals a hook,
Fish say, in the Eternal Brook,
But more than mundane weeds are there,
And mud celestially fair;
For caterpillars drift around.
And Paradisal grubs are found;
Unfading moths, immortal flies,
And the worm that never dies.
And in that Heaven of their wish,
There shall be no more land, say fish.
—Rupert Brooke, in New Numbers.
Bill, the Bounder
Acute observers like Price Collier and
other recent writers about Germany have
noted that the Prussian has so compara-
tively lately reached nationhood that in
many respects the race in its boorish de-
meanor and brutal, undisciplined methods
shows all the signs of bumptious youth.
The Prussian is bumptious because he
is not at all sure that he is the equal of
other races. He has to assert himself be-
cause he, alone among modern nations, con-
siders it necessary to assure the world that
he is properly civilised. It is just that
sneaking fear that his manners are not
quite gentlemanly that makes him an over-
bearing bounder. The German has to for-
mulate his conception of a gentleman: we
do not need to.
It is this inherent defect in the German
character, the inability to recognise that,
bluntly, honesty is the best policy, that
Germany and Good Faith, by E. H. C.
Olipliant, a study of the History of the
Prussian Royal Family (Critchley Parker,
Melb., 3s. 6d.) trenchantly exposes. Oli-
phant shows that Germany’s conduct in the
events leading up to the present war, her
treachery and faithlessness, are precisely on
a par with her behavior towards other
nations during 300 years. She is merely
carrying out, with the blunders inevitable
in the weak disciple of a great man, the
brutal, dishonest methods of Bismarck.
Justly, the author notes that the charac-
teristics of the Hohenzollerns are not the
characteristics of the people of Germany as
a whole, though in many cases they are the
characteristics of the Prussian people. Yet
even the brutal and offensive Prussian, hated
by the other races of the German Empire,
has not got all the faults of treachery and
faithfulness that mark the Hohenzollern
family.
-It is not against the German people that
the British Empire has any reason to feel
animosity: it is against the rulers of Ger-
many, against its reptile press, against its
untruthful historians, against its hatred-
working University professors, against its
brutal military class, against its offensive
officialdom, and against its treacherous Im-
perial Family.
Jt
The Hohenzollerns are a family of ban-
dits. They first emerged in history as feudal
lords who lived by brigandage in the Suabian
Alps. But in this they merely resembled
their contemporaries. “What distinguishes
them from the others is that they have
never dropped their old characteristics.” It
is a pretty record that history writes of
this family. There was the first to obtain
independence (in East Prussia), Frederick
William, the “Great Elector,” the creator
of the Hohenzollern absolutism, an unscrupu-
lous' and faithless statesman and bully, im-
pressing on all the doctrine that might is
right, the founder of the army. There was
Frederick William 1., the “archtype ofßran-
dernburg bully,” a “low-minded, vicious,
vulgar swaggerer.” He was the king that
had at work all over Europe recruiting offi-
cers and official kidnappers of tall men for
his famous regiment of tall grenadiers. And
not only men. He started a breeding farm
for high grenadiers. “Wherever a stalwart
peasant woman, married or unmarried, or a
farmer’s big-boned wife or daughter, was
found, she was seized and transported to
Potsdam, and mated with a giant grena-
dier.” And there were others, each possess-
ing the treacherous rapacity of the bully that
now, in its latest member, has hurled itself,
in blind meglomania, upon the fair facade
of civilisation. Reading the long record of
treachery to ally and neutral, one wonders
how other nations could have put faith in
Prussia again. Yet, not two months ago,
there were believers in Prussian honesty
even in the British Cabinet. Yet the lying
that Bismarck found necessary to bring
about the Franco-P-russian war had been
naively admitted by that shameless old
trickster.
As a liar Bismarck has never had a
superior; but it is well to remember that his
methods are those still in vogue in Prussia,
that they are regarded with general approval,
and that the highest aim of every Prussian
statesman is to effect Bismarckian coups in
the Bismarckian way; and yet there were
yesterday, probably are to-day, and assuredly
will be to-morrow, English statesmen and
English newspaper writers who do not recog-
nise the distinction between truth and honor
and honesty on the one hand and Prussian
morality on the other!
The brutality of Prussian military
methods, which have shocked the civilised
world within the last month, might have
been foreseen. The author reminds us of
the Kaiser’s bloodthirsty instructions to the
German troops prior to their despatch to
take part in the joint expedition against
Pekin.
“No quarter will be given, no prisoners
taken. All who fall into your hands shall
be at your mercy. Just as the Huns 1000
years ago, under the leadership of Attila,
gained the reputation for sternness in Virtue
of which they still live, so may the name of
Germany become known in such a way in
China that no Chinaman hereafter may dare
so much as to look askance at a German.”
How well his soldiers carried out his in-
structions in defenceless China has been well
attested by independent observers. Now
Belgium can add her sad testimony of the
brutality of the mailed fist.
Jt
William’s colossal vanity, strikingly shown
by his dismissal of Bismarck, has led him
into a long record of diplomatic failures.
He has tried to bring about hostile coali-
tions of the. Powers of Europe against Eng-
land, the United States and Japan (not
jointly, but separately—each in turn), and
has not succeeded in effecting a single one
of them ; he has sought to bring France and
England to blows, and has succeeded in
bringing about an entente between them;
he has sought to shatter the entente, and
has only united it more firmly; his greatest
object of all has been to incite Russia and
England to war, and he has had the morti-
fication of seeing them hand in hand; he
has endeavored to foment ill-feeling between
England and the United States, and sees
them more friendly than they have ever
been before; he has thirsted to defy the
Monroe doctrine, and has had to acknow-
ledge his complete acceptance of it; he has
flattered and cajoled the American people
to the utmost, without achieving any very
definite gain ; he has given plentiful assur-
ances of friendliness to the people of Eng-
land, and those assurances have not been
believed (for very good reasons).
The author’s trenchant summing up:—
The Hohenzollerns occupy a place by
themselves among the royal houses of
Europe. They are not disgraced by the
callous cruelty of the Romanoffs, the farm-
yard morals of the Bourbons, or the religious
bigotry in which these dispute pre-eminence
with the unlearning Hapsburgs; but in un-
faithfulness, in low cunning, and in the
arts of the sharper they stand alone and
unapproachable. In ingratitude they are
an excellent second to the Hapsburgs; in
cold-blooded treachery not even the Bour-
bons are their equals. If, of all these
families, the Bourbons have been on the
whole the basest and most degraded, the
Hohenzollerns have assuredly been the un-
loveliest and the trickiest; and, unfortu-
nately for the character of the German
people, they are asked to admire their im-
perial line for those very qualities which
make them hateful.
August
The responsibility for the small entry —26
—for the August sonnet competition, must
be referred to Bill Hohenzollern. Despite
our suggestion that the war should
not be allowed to intrude into this pacificist
series, three of the entrants could not help
themselves. Two excellent war sonnets may,
however, find place in another part of this
publication. Good sonnets were submitted
by W. Calm, Julianna, Emo, Mary A. K.
Robb and Charles F. Pettinger. In the
humorous class P. Phrozeout and Mick Much
reach publication:—
Six sonnets qualified for the final heat. A
complicated allegory spoiled a sonnet by L.
J. Villiers, despite a fine conclusion. And
if Lilia Gormhuille McKay had kept to the
level of her sextette !
Upon the long, green hills the gorse is gold,
With shining mists the mountain-spurs are
hung;
A-dotvn the valleys silver showerets pass
To gleaming sands, where sea-tvinds still
blow cold;
And through the night each gleeful star has
flung
Its petalled likeness on the meadow grass.
A. Gore-Jones spoils a fine sonnet by a line
of prose:—
... .Upon the busy rivers glide
The cane punts in a swiftly darkening tide,
Bearing the staple for some sugar mill.
Two names well known in these competi-
tions dispute the prize: S. Elliott Napier and
Nina Murdoch. Napier’s sonnet is literary,
using the vaguer general term instead of
the more vivid particular name. Nina Mur-
doch (77 Ben Boyd-road, Neutral Bay, Syd-
ney), though brazenly adapting for Aus-
tralian use a hackneyed line of Tennyson,
wins by her brilliant Australian color.
The spendthrift wattles wave each yellow
tress,
And lavish largesse on the wanton bees,
Who, golden-thighed with all their fragrant
fees,
Yield to the nectar'd blooms their bold caress.
The mating birds, decked in their nuptial
dress,
Keep tryst amid the secret, shady trees,
And upward to the light and to the breeze
The green-lanced armies of the icheatfield
press.
For this is now the August fairies' hour,
When stooping o'er her cradle, one by one,
They on the new-born Spring their gifts
bestow;
The gift of bursting shoot and budding
flow'r;
The gift of humid rain and gracious sun;
The golden gift of youth and all its glow!
S. Elliott Napier.
I’m glad I didn’t giv’ ther struggle best
W’en ole July fair socked it onter me,
Fer, ’struth, it’s good ter be erlive en see
Young August dance on sour ole Winter’s chest.
Th’ pairin’ birds er busy wiv their nest,
’En ropes er flowers erwait th’ busy bee.
Th’ ole gohanner’s crawlin’ frum ’is tree,
’E’s fine ez wire frum ’is long winter rest.
On sunny Sundays ain’t it jes’ th’ thing
Ter lay out on yer back in long green grass,
'En listen ter yer nippers larkin’ gay.
W’ile all eround yer matin’ birdies sing,
’En fer up in ther blue th’ cloudlets pass.
Oh! the glory uv ’n’ Austral August day.
P. PHEOZBOUT.
’Ere’s Augus’ runnin’—dicker) Time can’t go!
The flamin’ year a pair uv heels is show’n’ ;
The frost’s a flock uv cockatoos that’s flown
From broken paddicks w’ere the w’ite ’u’d show.
Yer oughter screw the crops git up en’ grow!
It don’t seem no time since the wheat wuz sown,
En’ now the headland’s all wif capeweed blown —
The strippin’ ull be roun’ in arf a mo!
Now springin’ milchers en’ the pelt-bare sheep
Uv gut a rosy picnic in the grass,
En’ wattles look like sunbeams in a heap
Ur golden fleeces fur the wind to class.
Miss Spring uz took the deal; ’er game is deep—
Jist ’ear ole Winter growlin’ out: “I pass!”
Mick Much.
Syd. 0. comes nearer to perfection:—
The earth is like a honey-laden bee
That, drunk with joy, flies chanting ’mid
the flowers
Far sparkling through the limpid, azure
bowers
And golden highways of infinity.
While Life, that swells with spring-tide like
the sea,
And surges joyous, shouting of its flowers,
Sweeps through the land to break in foamy
showers
Of blossom, dripping pearls from every tree.
The gums are tipped with glory of new leaves,
Scarlet and bronze; and swaying in soft
airs
They break the sunlight into jewelled rain.
The birds flit, liquid-tongued, in happy pairs,
And joy a flowery mia-mia lightly weaves,
To dwell by sapphire hills and emerald plain.
SYD. C.
AUGUST.
Entries for the final competition in this
series, a sonnet on our September, must reach
this page by October 4.
«
Shaw believes fervently in moving-pic-
tures. They are so nicely immoral. “The
cinematograph begins educating people
when the projection lantern begins clicking,
and does not stop until it leaves off. It is
educating you far more effectively when you
think it is only amusing you than when it
is avowedly instructing you in the habits of
lobsters Probably at present the best
work the cinema does is the exhibition to
masses of poor children of the habits, dress,
manners and surroundings of people who
can afford to live decently... .Much of tlie
clumsiness and ugliness of our habits is
simple ignorance; we have never seen any-
thing better The cinematograph, by
familiarising us with elegance, grace,
beauty and the rest of those immoral virtues
which are so much’-more , important than the
moral ones, could easily make our ugliness
look ridiculous. The moral virtues can take
care of themselves only too well; it is our
deficiency in the immoral ones that is keep-
ing us back in the march of civilisation.”
By NINA MURDOCH.
Who can have robbed the winter of its sting
And tipped the stately bottle-brush with red,
And set the peeivee calling overhead?
Who is it speeds on dancing feet to bring
The scented brown borohia, and to fling
The sarsaparilla on the bracken bed,
And seeing that the blue wren fain would
wed
Splashes a deeper purple on his wing f .
Oh! it is August, singing by the creek
And flitting to and fro upon the heath,
With busy fingers and bewitching ways
Of darting here and there at hide and seek
To please her babe, the Spring, who under-
neath
A leafy shelter with a wild flower plays.
Brown Drama
Two dramas by Rabindranath Tagore,
Chitra, and The King of the Dark Chamber
(Macmillan, 2s. 6d. and 4s. 6d. respectively),
introduce us to the strange stage world of
India. It is a world of half-lights, subdued
tints, a world of suggestion and not of
drama. Action is rare in this placid un-
folding of narrative; the characters dream
instead of doing. Yet it has a haunting
appeal in its poetry, its quiet beauty, its
silence, its childish outlook, its slurred and
wavering technique. .
There are but four characters in Chitra,
and two of these are gods. This "‘dramatic
poem” has been performed without scenery
in India, the actors being surrounded by the
audience. There are, too, no stage direc-
lions. Chitra, the king’s daughter, being
his only child, has been brought up as a
boy. But she falls in love with the great
warrior, Arjuna, who is living as a hermit
in the forest. She finds that, dressed as a
man, she does not touch Arjuna’s heart;
and asks the god to give her “the power of
the weak and the weapon of the unarmed
hand.” “Give me but one brief day of per-
fect beauty, and I will answer for the days
that follow.” Her prayer is granted, not
for one day but for a whole year. Chitra,
dressed as a woman, and in her new perfect
loveliness, enraptures the man. They lovei
But Chitra, dowered with her false robe of
loveliness, begins to hate her bodily perfec-
tion.
“Heaven,” she “came so close to
my hand that I forgot for a moment that it
had not reached me. But when I woke in
the morning from my dream I found that
my body had become my own rival. It is
my hateful task to deck her every day, to
send her to my beloved and see her caressed
by him. O god, take back thy boon!”
The god refuses. The mortals play their
romance out. Chitra asks: “If by some
magic I could shake myself free from this
voluptuous softness, and fling it from my
body like borrowed clothes, would you be
able to stand it? If I stand up straight
and strong with the strength of a daring
heart spurning the wiles and arts of twin-
ing weakness... .shall I then appeal to
man’s eye? No, no, you could not endure
it. It is better that I should keep spread
about me all the dainty playthings of fugi-
tive youth, and wait for you in patience.
When it pleases you to return, I will smil-
ingly pour out for you the wine of pleasure
in the cup of this beauteous body. When
you are tired and satiated with this wine,
you can go to work or play; and when I
grow old I will accept humbly and grate-
fully whatever corner is left for me.” The
eastern woman —that is, strangely enough,
sister to the suffragette.
At last Chitra comes clothed in her male
attire. “I have many flaws and blemishes.
I am a traveller in the great world-path,
my garments are dirty, and my feet are
bleeding with thorns... .The gift that I
proudly bring you is the heart of a woman.
Ilere have all pains and joys gathered, the
hopes and fears and shames of a daughter
of the dust; here love springs up struggling
toward immortal life. Herein lies an imper-
fection which yet is noble and grand.” And
her lover merely says, “Beloved, my life is
full.” No dramatic suspense, no “curtain,”
merely a charming conceit poetically and
placidly told. „
Frankly, this critic doesn’t know what
The King of the Dark Chamber is all about.
It is such a very brown drama that it is
nearly black. There is a king who has never
been seen by his subjects, and not even by his
queen except in a room that is always kept
in pitch darkness. Thus the queen does not
even know what her husband looks like; she
has never seen him by daylight. Not only
does nobody see the king, but he remains
invisible throughout the drama even to the
audience. His voice is all that is heard, com-
ing from the blackness of the dark chamber.
The wife believes in her instinct: she declares
she could recognise him; but when the king
makes the test she puts her money and her
jewels on the wrong horse. There is a crowd
of lesser kings who come to the conclusion
that since the king is invisible there is no
king. They plot to set up a pretender, but
in the end are defeated by the invisible king.
The one glimpse the queen gets of the king
shows him to her as “black like the ever-
lasting night.” Her love for him is thus
destroyed. She appeals to him to hold her
back, to hold her by the hair, if necessary,
even to strike her. His unresisting silence
makes her wild. No wonder! She leaves
him; there is a series of battles among the
minor kings, whom in the end the unseen
king puts to flight, but what it is all about
the author does not explain ; then the queen
returns to the dark chamber and humbles
herself before the unseen king.
That Is what happens: the moral of the
drama remains unexplained, unindicated.
Possibly The King of the Dark Chamber is
a very good brown drama ; but in Australia
it would not be half as popular as The
Silver King.
—«
“Corio”: Anent Max Beerbohm’s cartoon,
published in 8., August 20, showing the
dawning of a horrid doubt as to the Divine
Right, probably the Emproarer Bill is com-
mencing to realise that he possesses neither
the Divine Right nor the Dirty Left.


JL
nee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
r
ZSOI
r
r
m
a
ox
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition
of the Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy
ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected, prevents injury from colliding
with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the
ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or
to clear the Harrow of trash.
Made in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are S inches
long by i inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each, with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Sft..,
complete . . .. . . ■ • • • ■ • • • • • • • 75/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft.,
complete . . • • .. • • • • • • • • ■ • • • 84/-
THE STAR DISC
THE ST.AH DISC
HARROW contains all
the features of any im-
portance in a disc har-
row, and includes besides
many advantages and
conveniences for the
cheap and successful use
of such an implement.
The seat is so arranged
that it can be adjusted
for a light or heavy
driver, and all excess of
weight taken off the
horses’ necks. A two-
wheeled fore truck takes
the place of the pole, do-
ing away with all friction
on the horses, and enab-
ling the operator to turn
his team in their own
length.
s*
Wm
i "i*
1 ight 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3021 b. net weight £7/10/-
2 or 3-llorse, Oft. wide. 12 discs, 16in. size of discs, 3691 b. net weigai (No. Tx
1065) .. .. .. £7/15/-
All Star Harrows have tw T o levers. Cleaners included.
WIARD PATENT PLOUGHS
No. fL. Pony I lough, will plough Sin. to oin. deep, Gin. to Sin. wide; Wood Beam,
v Y/?A gh m 4UIb “ Wlth wheel, 23/6. Extra Shares, 9d.
xo ' }, T' v o-Horse Steel Beam Plough, as illustrated, fitted with ordinary
Colonial Coulter, and with Iron Handles if required, will plough Gin. to Oin.
XT e P> lOrn. to 14in. wide; weight, 1001 b., 75/- Extra Shares, 1/9,
A ° - 7.. ’ Hne-Horse Swivel Plough, Wood Beam, will plough 4in. to Tin. deep,
Gin. to 10m. wide; weight, 771 b., 42/6. Extra Shares, 1/6.
Canton Scotch Clipper Plough, lOin. Steel Beam for two
W)th one Steel Share, 75/-. Extra Steel Shares! 9/6.
Horses, weight, 911 b.
Send for Price List of Agricultural
Implements and Tools of Trade,
Post Free on request.
L 1
■n
, |
CANTON No. 4
DISC PLOUGH.
THE CANTON DISC PLOUGH has been universally successful for general
use everywhere (in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil).
The Discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the Single Disc will turn furrows
from 3 to 12 inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions
between each Disc. The Discs are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are
set at the proper angle to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil
is turned completely over and is thoroughly pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10
or 12 inches.
1- weight, 6721 b. .. .. .. Price, £l3/10/-
2- weight, 7801 b. .. .. .. Price, £l6/5/-
3- weight, 0001 b. .. .. .. Price, £2l
20in. Spare Discs, 24/- each.
I
Mm -.
fail
:- -••--- - j
No. Tx 1056. — New Model One Horse Plough, wood handles, low set, like the
famous Scotch ploughs (No. Tx 1056) . . .. .. .. .. 50/-
Empire All Steel
Cultivator
We specially recommend this Cultivator, as, with the attachments, it can be
used for cultivating almost any crop.
With Attachments, weight, 901 b., 34/6. Extra Tines, lj, I£, 2J in., 6d. each.
Sweeps, 10in„ 1/-; 12in., 1/1; 14in., 1/2 each.
llilling Board Attachments, 10/6 pair.
Extension Pieces, to make into 7-Tine Cultivator 7/6 pair.
- s*
No. o.— One-Horse Iron Plough, as illustrated, Avith one extra share and spanner;
weight, 1161 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth and width 75/-
Two-Horse Iron Plough, similar to No. 0, but much stronger.. . . £5/5/-
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight, 821 b.; will do Tin. to Sin. depth
and width 50/ "
IRON PLOUGHS.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
XT
Wew Palace Emporium,
. BrlcKneld Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


) i
ik
y
1 t
M
//
THE
WORLD OVER.
IF it were not for light, downy
beards many a razor would have
no market.
The tough beard or the tender skin
is the real shaving test —and the
Gillette is the one razor that meets that test
every day with millions of satisfied users.
Three minutes is all the time you need for a velvet smooth
Gillette shave. No strops to fuss with —no waste of lime —no
bother. No pulling or scraping or sore, touchy face.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
9NIMOHOM ONlddOblS ON
Eiimiui]
Safety
Razor
MAKE
£4O A
MONTH
If you are making
less than £lO a. week
write us today. Wo
can help you to wealth
and independence by
our plan, you can work
when you please, where
you please, always
have money and the
means of making bar-
rels more of it.
JUST LISTEN TO
THIS. Mr. Lloyd took
a 4000-mile trip accom-
panied by wife and
child. He stayed at
the best Hotels, lived
like a Lord wherever ho went and
cleaned up more than £2 every day
he was out. Another man worked
the carnivals and resorts, and when
there was nothing special to do, just
started out on any street he hap-
pened to select, got busy and pulled
in £l-10 a day for month after
month. This interests you, don’t it?
„ iW* MY PROPOSITION „
with which you can take and instantaneously develop
9 ards . and Tintypes. Every picture is developed without films or neg-
customerina minute after making the exposure. THIS
“ E I ft !!i‘ E KABLE INVENTION takes 100 pictures an hour and pays you a profit of from 500
wa ,P. ts Pictures and each sale you make advertises your business
sales L fo r T ou# ® im P^ e instructions accompany each outfit and you can begin
to make money m a short time after the outfit reaches you
WE TRUST YOU "WE
SO MUCH CONFIDENCE HAVE WE in our nronosition thnt r r* ; 2 i r!^T s vott fnr ■»■»»»»•*
of the cost of the outfit. The regular selling price of tEe Camera and complete wo?kin|oStflt
is reasonable. The profits are so big, so quick, so sure that you could afford to pay the full
price if we asked you to do so. But we are so absolutely certain that you can makebig money
from the start that we trust you for a substantial sum which you need not nav unless vou clean
up £4O the first month. FAIR ENOUGH, ISN’T IT? * u dy unless you clean
eithe I r ) offlce. delay * minute but write us tpdayfor our free catalog and full particulars. Address
7
i
A
i-y
8
BE YOUR
OWN
L. LASGELLE,
8 Bouverie St., Dept
637 W. 43d St., Dept,
1564
London, England.
New York, 11. S. A.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
LOOK AT
ME!
[ am a living witness to the marvellous curative
properties of
VITADATIO
Eighteen years ago I was declared absolutely
incurable by three of the finest physicians in New
Zealand. 1 had suffered for fourteen years from
HYDATIDS
and had tried all the ordinary advertised
medicines, doctors, and herbalists,'but without
any permanent benefit, and at last underwent an
operation, but was then pronounced incurable.
1 was advised to try VITADATIO, and as a
result of giving this now famous medicine a
consistent trial, was thoroughly cured. My cure
took place seventeen years ago, and 1 am still in
PERFECT HEALTH
and have introduced this great medicine through-
out the world, and marvellous cures have been
effected by Australia’s Great Remedy in all
countries.
& p
In these enlightened times everyone knows that disease attacks the system owing
to a poor quality of the Blood, and as VITA D A Tl O is a natural herbal blood maker
it has successfully cured : -
LIVER AND KIDNEY DISEASES
TUMOUROUS GROWTHS
GALL STONES
INDIGESTION RHEUMATISM
NERVOUS DISORDERS
CHEST TROUBLES
bladder troubles
SKIN DISEASES
yt>u
\Vfite for full particulars and testimonials ; state How yoil suffer, and 1 will cHve
FREE ADVICE. VITADATIO is sold by Chemists and Stores.
S. A. PALMER, 439 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
It Pays to Keep Well.
If you know what good health really means you
will know that it pays to keep yourself well.
Changes of climate, occupation, diet, etc., all
tend to upset your balance, but you never need
fear any trouble if you take now and then
AOTIBILIOUS
m
m
A REPUTATION OF OVER 100 YEARS.
By taking a medicine such as this occasionally, say once
or twice a week, you ensure that perfect regular working
of the bodily functions which is the basis of all good health.
When you feel out-of-sorts, “ liverish,” low-spirited, have
headache, dyspepsia, yellow skin, and no appetite, then
Id Days Gone By
more than ever do you
need Cockle’s Pills the
Doctor’s medicine which
doctors recommend.
fashions in dress were very different to
those of to-day, but there is one fashion
that came into vogue a century ago which
still exists, and is, in fact, more popular
to-day than ever, and that is the fashion of
taking Cockle’s Pills for disorders of the
liver and digestion.
COCKLE'S PILLS
ot Chemists through-
out the World.
Prices in England,
1/lJ & 2/9 « box
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra tong range
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/G. , D.8.8.L. GUN “fed wth
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified s e >
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN hACLLLLJNt
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE,
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOtJI IT S p hpac w]
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted \vith patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent e l e «o r . lakes --
rS.IV/T’ ”** c " rtrk ' B “ *” °” “hli “TJcS:&.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Larged Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


Benger’s Food is
universally recommended
by medical men.
For use during illness and
convalescence.
For weakly and over-growing
children.
As a supplementary food in
malnutrition, and for all
cases of dyspepsia and
impaired digestion.
à
Food
TT'
t
mm?:
i 79 a
For CHILDREN,
INVALIDS and
the Aged,
is comforting-,
when other foods
cause pain. It is
the most easily-
digested of all
foods, but is not
pre-digested.
Be get’s F<od is sold by
Druggists, etc., everywhere •
B* NQER'I FOOD.T.TD.
MANCHESTEB, ENGL
Branch Offices—
New York (u.s.a.)
92, William Street.
Sydney (n.s.w.)
117, Pitt street.
Canadian Agents—
National I rug and
Chen ical Co., Ltd.,
34, St. Gabriel Bt,,
Montreal,
and Branches
throughout Canada.
COLORED POST-CARDS, bv Harrv J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.” Set
of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin News-
paper Co., 214 George Street. Sydney.
carnation
talcum
POWDER
I
Don’t Throw
Away Your
Williams’
Talc. Tins.
Post four empty
tins (any odor)
to the J. B.
Williams Co.,
Box 98, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and we
will send you
without charge
Williams’
exquisite Silver-
plated Vanity-
Box, with
Powder
Puff and
Concentra-
ting Mir-
tror, exact-
'ly like il-
lustration.
VCM*
cot
30
«*>
&
r~
DO YOU
FEELTHE
MONEY-
PINCH ?
The “money pinch” denotes that
you Need to Learn More in
order to Earn More. The
I.C.S. have helped thousands to
better-paid positions, and can
help you also.
200 COURSES TO CHOOSE
FROM.
Write for free booklet, stating
your occupation and ambition
to—
International Correspondence
Schools,
Department 8.Y.,
26 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY
á
SONNW6TO#S
IRISH MOSS
' m*™*-
• 5 is
life 111
W
It is a good policy to keep in the home
a Cough Remedy of Proven Merit. She is
a wise mother who insists upon getting a
Skilfully Prepared Medicine.
n
wm
m
has stood the Test of Fifty Years. Those
who use it are amazed at its Wonderful
Curative Properties.
a
à
“Saved from Drinß
Miss , the daughter of a one-time drunkard, writes : ’‘Just another letter to
let you know that after IS months from taking your Golden Specific father still
keeps off the drink, and my friend that you are supplying with treatment now is
also losing the craving.” Golden Specific is the only sure and lasting cure for
drunkenness. Can be given secretly, and is guaranteed harmless. It quickly
banishes the craving for strong drink—some cases cured in few days. .
try IT FREE. To all who are interested we will send a FREE
SAMPLE, descriptive booklet, and testimonials on receipt of 2d. stamp.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO. (Dept. B 2017) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
á
S 3
n
THIN WOMEN !
Would You
Like a Well Developed
and Well Proportioned
FIGURE?
ANY WOMAN without full bust development lacks the one essential
that creates a perfect appearance. Lack of proper bust development, hollow
cheeks and “salt-cellars” quickly take from a woman the bloom and fresh-
ness of healthy womanhood. Misfortune may have been your lot in so far
as natural development is concerned, but science has found a way to correct
your deficiency. Even though you have never been full-bosomed, and have
been attenuated all your life, if you suffer from no wasting disease, youi
bosom can be fully developed and your weight increased to normal....
There are to-day hundreds of women who were once thin, flat-bosomed,
hollow-cheeked and generally scraggly in appearance, and suffering the effects of
amemia and defective digestion, who are now for the first time in their lives
healthy, full-bosomed and pink-cheeked, and enjoying the full vigor of robust
womanhood, as the result of a few weeks under our wonderful
DR. FALLIERE’S FLESH-FOOD. ~* a .
Flesh-Pood is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its use is
no demand upon the subject’s time. Many cases have gained up to six pounds a week, and an
increase in bust measurement up to eight or ten inches is possible Elesh-Food offers relief
and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever possessing
a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food-treatment that adds weight and permanent
development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
WE HAVE HUNDREDS OF FETTERS DIKE THIS:
Manager “Flesh-Food” Co.. Cympie, Queensland, May 5,191 J.
Dear Sir,—As a nurse, I was very interested in yopr Fle3h-Food treatment, and was greatly
surprised at the wonderful results in my case. When I first wrote to youJ was only skin and
bone and I have good cause to be thankful that I wrote you for a free sample, for I feel certain
now that I am one of the very best advertisements you could possibly have, as l am developed n
every way satisfactory to myself, and I have waited a good while to prove if it was | asting: in
its effect, and I am now glad to say that your splendid treatment has done absolutely all you
claimed it would, my weight and measurements being ample.—l am, yours grabetuny.
Let us Send
You a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE,
We publish an interesting book on the
subject of attenuation anil development,
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications aie
treated as strictly confidential. Call if convenient. cvnxrev
lALLIKRH FLESH-FOOl) CO- 1103 ASH STREET, SAIENITW__
"The.
■) New Wav
5b
S 7
m
v*
<iMr^
S'-
-.Yourtfvte-
*
â
Woven Names
AVOID the inconvenient pen and ink method and mark your
linen and clothing (handkerchiefs, shirts especially) by using
CASH’S Names. These names or initials are woven in Turkey Red
Lettering (several styles) on Fine Cambric tape. They
NEVER come off —NEVER wash out—NEVER fade.
Obtainable ALL DRAPERS AND CLOTHIERS.
A»k for CASFPS —the rame's on the box. Write for
Samples to J. & J. Cash Ltd.
246-250 Flinders Lane, Melbourne-!
Your Name
TOBACCO KILLS!
Face to Face with Death /
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a positive cure for
the Tobacco and Cigarette Habits. It is abso-
lutely harmless, leaves no reaction or bad after-
effects, and cures permanently.
Free Package Offer.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a trial
package of this wonderful remedy, together
with our Free Booklet, Testimonials, etc.
TRIAL PACKAGE often effects a CURE.
Mr. H. Smith, of Park Farm, Jericho, Tas-
mania, says: “I was a hard smoker for SO
years, but since talcinn your sample of Tobacco
Specific 1 have never had a smoke.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’Connell Street, Sydney. [3.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Hava you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome Bpring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tliat is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
sott rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To t'how what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the Mach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE. COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE-
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins-6t., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in _ Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High liol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Europe—1914.
The courtesies of Grace, the call of Art,
The mongery of Commerce —all of these
He fashioned in a sofa-dream of ease,
Drawing-room and Gallery and Mart;
Yet, in his heart,
Was laired, he knew so well, the Bloody
Thing
That, growling there, crouched ready for the
spring.
The scented parleys of polite Romance,
For all its tinsel-gaud and ribbon-play,
Its flower-petailed strewings of the way,
Its lilied dolling-up of circumstance....
What idle chance
■ Had this to glut the hollow guts of It,
That licked Its jowl, dry-frothed with
famine-spit?
Swishing Its brush in sullen murder-mood;
Beneath Its hide, like frisk of wind on water,
The muscles ran a ripple-stave of slaughter;
It sniffed upon the air the tang of blood,
The reek of food,
Then with a roar, reverberating till
The very stars were trembled, leapt to kill.
It leapt, with all the gloat of murder-heat
And brutal hanker urging to the leap;
Swift as Its motive thought, with rapine
sweep
It smote live flesh to huddles of dead meat,
Nor stayed to eat.
But, drunken with the shambles’ wannish
smoke,
Felt bloodier lust at every murder-stroke.
With reddened tusks and blood-bedabbled
jowl,
It crunched through bone and ripped with
bloody claws
Hot quivering hunks of flesh; Its sloppy
jaws
Gaped but to kill or belch a murder-howl
Or savage growl
Along the foetid airs of carrion breath,
Fanned by miasmic winnowings of Death.
And day by day and week by crimson week.
It stayed not in Its carnage, save to gain
Fresh impulse from Its dreams ; the writhe
of pain.
The wounded moan, the burst veins’ dripping
leak.
The dreadful shriek
When Life and Death were grappling in the
throes
. . . .All these made merry music in Its doze.
* * * *
And he —he viewed it all in stupid daze,
A sickly fullness goitred at his_ throat.
Stifling his speech with gorge of acrid bloat;
Then, wiping from his eyes the mattery haze
That-filmed his gaze,
Wailed to the skies, “Lord God of Battles,
hear!
Is this the End and is the End not near?”.
Then sank down, shuddering, like a child in
fear!
MAORILAND.
BERNARD INGLEBY.
The Last Drunk.
The fragments of the broken world
Shot out like spluttered grease,
And I was quite amazed to find
Myself a solid piece.
The earth had shattered like a shell;
And, through vast spaces flung,
I drifted in an ether sea
With myriad star-lights hung,
Until I met another shape
That spoke in cheery tones;
Its face was as the face of Smith;
Its voice the voice of Jones.
Words that to ever hear again
I had' not dared to think
Resounded bell-like in my ears!
Just “Comeanaveadrink !”
Then arm-in-arm we sank through space,
And rose again, till flight
Had borne us where the Jewelled Gates
Gleamed brightly in the night.
Quoth I: “Oh, Smith-Jones, let us shun
The place where plain souls are;
Now we have come to Heaven, I
Prefer the private bar!
Emboldened by our thirsts we flung
The gaudy portals wide;
And where the agate lanterns hung,
Stepped fearlessly inside.
With wonder and delight we saw
The angel of the place,
The star-shine glimmered in her hair;
I seemed to know her face.
She filled two crystal goblets up
With Heaven’s longest beers;
And Jones and I together stood
And drank for years and years.
There loomed one terror in my heart,
And that I told to Smith.
“When all the cash we have is gone
What shall we purchase with?”
Smith-Jones’s answer was a laugh;
As reaching out afar
lie drew from Space as from a bank
A bright, new, shining star!
And there we drank, as ages passed,
Of liquors rich and rare,
Expending all the stars until
The dizzy skies seemed bare.
Still one remained, and, as I reached
To snatch it from its place
Flung from the golden bar of Heaven
I hurtled into Space.
That Smith and Jones were forced to pay
To mend the broken light
Seems but a little price for such
A rich and gorgeous night!
N.S.W.
HAMER.


To Light Country Residences and Shops
You simply switch
■
on the light?
And the LISTER-
BRUSTON Auto=
matic Electric
Lighting Set
starts itself.
u
tJ
No Engineer, no large Battery, no connection with Council Mains is needed,
us explain the System to YOU —there are over 3000 Plants in use.
AGENTS: N.S.W.—W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide.
Let
EES
The Most Economical Controllers for
all Electrical Work
are made by Allen West & Co. Ltd., of Brighton, England.
In “West”' Controllers all the essential features, together
with many improvements suggested by practical experience
are included. All Controllers are subjected to rigorous
Electrical and , Mechanical tests before being delivered.
We are the Sole Australian Representatives
for Allen West Controllers,
including Drum Type, Oil Immersed, Watertight, Steel
Works (for extra-heavy services). Lift Controllers, Liquid
Self-aligning Porcelain Fuses, Stamped Resistance Grids,
etc. Let us send YOU full details in our Technical Bulletin.
Agents for these Controllers wanted in each State.
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything Electrical,
279 Clarence Street; 426=430 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
ã
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
2 S
n j
i s
ui
There’s a Mine of
Good Eating in “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese.
You’ll feel that you have struck it rich the
moment M llex” Luncheon Cheese touches
your Palate.
It is a “rare find” for any man who has to
take Sandwiches with him to his work.
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
may be spread without butter if you wish to study Economy.
It has the flavor so highly prized by the Cheese Connoisseur 1 .
Moreover, “Rex” Luncheon ‘Cheese aids the digestion—a little after
each meal is the rule to observe —because it possesses the rare good
properties of perfectly-matured, Full Cream Cheese.
Procurable from all Grocers-—Tins or .Tars.
OTHER “REX” f ANNE I)
DELICACIES ARE:—
Ham Pate, 11b. tins, i
Veal and Tongue Pate, Jib. tuns, \
Pork Brawn, lib. tins, £
Pork Sausages, 11b. tins, j %
Pork and Beans, 131 b. tins, ?
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, lib. tit is,
“Rex” Puncheon Cheese, An decor-
ated tins and porcelain, jars,
and
“Rex” Brand Lard, for Ccpoking Pur-
poses, ip, Hb, prints.
FOGGITT, JONES
& CO. LTD.,
Outers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon,
Packers of “Rex” Eure Food Products,
Makers of “ Rex ” Sm all Goods.
“BEX” FRESH SMALL GOODS,
procurable at all Grocers and
Small-goods shops and carts in
Brisbane and District and Bendigo
and District only :
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausage.
m
r >.
ksc:
fooof'
p /?oouc T 3
Tt
cV
JPL
m
!T? . V
m
»!
'fm
m
Now is the Time for the Hose, and
’Tis the Hose that
makes the Difference
if you use a length of .
WATERSHED
Bed Rubber Carden Hose.
“Watershed” Hose is a faithful
production of all that experience
and highest-grade materials can do.
“WATERSHED” Hose
AUSTRALIAN MAD
and guaranteed free from any fault
in manufacture that would cause it
to burst, split, peel or kink.
Made in 60ft. coils, but cut to any
length.
rn v>
■sin. x 3-ply «/9 per ft., or 30ft., fitted ready for use 24/6
or 60ft., fitted ready for use 45/9
fin. x 3-ply. 1/- per ft., or 30ft., fitted ready for use 32/-
or 00ft., fitted ready for use 60/9
“Watershed” Hose is sold by all leading Storekeepers throughout Australia. Our
New Hose Catalogue is now ready. Sent post free on request.
Manufactured by
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear bv applying
SU LPHOLIN E
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple,...com-
fortable.
For 42 Years-
s u
BOTTLES 1/- and 2/9.
LPHOLINE
Has been the Remedy for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists—-
J. PEPPER & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng.,
and can be obtained direct from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.
m
m
m
v
MM
m %
Delatmay-Belleville, 18-h.p. 4-Cyi
The Delaunay-Belleville has proved to be pre-eminently suited to Australian
conditions. Owners report that these cars run smoothly on rough roads, and
never falter at the steepest hills. Throughout the longest journey the
engine runs silently and satisfactorily and never over-heats.
It will run very slowly or very quickly as required, responding to the
opening of the controlling throttle in a way that will satisfy the most
critical.
The Delaunay-Belleville has four-cylinders cast in pairs, with enclosed
valves. Bosch dual high-tension magneto ignition. Delaunay-Belleville
(patented) forced lubrication. Water-cooled-—circulated by centrifugal pump.
Patent combined jet and surface carburetter, ensuring great flexibility.
Petrol supply gravity fed from tank on dashboard. Budge-Whitworth
detachable wire wheels, with spare wheel and tyre complete. Four speeds .
forward, with direct drive on fourth, one reverse. Body five-seated Tor-
pedo Touring Phaeton, or other types if. required. Upholstered in best
leather.
Literature giving full details supplied on request. Any trials arranged.
Dalgety and Company Ltd.
Motor Garage:
136-138 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
R-egistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 36.—N0. 1805.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1914.
Thick Gd.
THE DREAM OF HIS HEAD UPON HIS BED.
THE KAISER: “Who are you?"
THE SPECTRE: “I am your enemy—the one invulnerable. lam Time, the Eater of All Things.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
77'7/MLS TO SVIiRCTUBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6i. 6d. per Annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every iveek for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all llus'ness Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political. Social or other Articles. Verse. Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects. and not exceeding Uvo columns in length, or.
say. 8000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it ivill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Ganada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J/J/l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IV. Jewett, Utah. U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
S!)th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago. U.S.A.
Egypt.. —lgnace Horn, Port Said. Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co.’, Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lP. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Rates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji. British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
llowe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Soz., Id., Bloz.
to 10oz., 2 id.; JOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, f/oz.,
Id., and id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1914.
SHORT HOURS, SHORT WAGES AND
SUNDRIES.
The curse comes home to roost first in New
South Wales, because that State is more
addicted to imports, foreign loans and
Freetrade than any of its neighbors. The
Holman Government has postponed the
delivery of its financial statement with the
plain, simple, unabashed explanation that,
by reason of the stoppage of the lOU, it
doesn’t know where it stands, or lies, or
falls down. This great gold-producing coun-
try has loafed into such a state of depend-
ence upon gold-loans from countries which
don’t produce gold that, when the golden
land can’t borrow its own sovereigns back
at high interest, the bottom begins imme-
diately to fall out of things. The war
hasn’t yet added a single Conner to our taxa-
tion, yet in New South Wales the men
employed on public works are being put on
half-time. Very soon they may be glad to
get two days’ work per week, which will be
one-third time. In a number of private
enterprises the half-time system, or the
system of paying half the wages in cash
and half in certificates and deferred
promises, is being considered. What kind
of a show the Holman Government will
make with its financial statement a couple
of months hence, Heaven only knows. Even
if the Germans are then taking the back
track to Berlin, finances may be much worse
than they are to-day, for victory is only a
shade less expensive than defeat, and the
ruin grows worse with every day of war.
A little while ago there was no drought on
the horizon as there is to-day. The country
was turning out more produce than it ever
did before, and selling it at high prices.
The markets of the world were open to it.
The Cohen of the world was not un-
friendly. The New South Wales revenue
was far larger than it had been at any
previous time. Yet the Holman-McGowen
combination produced the biggest deficit
that its State ever heard of. How it will
pan out now is a mystery, but unless it is
a very different gang from the gang it used
to be it will pan out something terrible.
Even before the war and the loan stop-
page came to pass, and the drought
threatened, there were certain signs of a
breakdown in New South Wales. One sign
was the decrease in the profits (so-called)
made out of manufactures. The number
of employees increased, and the amount of
work done increased, but in one respect
there was a falling-off. This table explains
the situation:—
PER EMPLOYEE.
Total Raw Wages Balance
output. materials. paid. added.
£ s. d. £ s. d. £ s. d. £ ,s. d.
1909.. 468 9 7 308 2 5 83 11 9 76 15 5
1910.. 497 11 11 326 11 8 90 16 4 80 3 11
1911.. 500 6 3 321 8 4 96 7 1 82 10 10
1912.. 529 5 6 333 0 2 104 8 10 91 16 6
1913.. 545 4 6 347 13 11 109 8 2 88 5 1
The figures in the last column are com-
monly uescribed as “manufacturers’ profit,”
but in reality they have to cover many
things besides. Out of them comes rent,
taxes, -interest, exchange, bad debts, coal,
gas, water supply, repairs, depreciation,
new buildings, new machinery, insurance,
and a multitude of sundries. As the use
of machinery increases the margin required
to keep things going increases. Between
3912 and 19±8 the average wage of the
workman rose considerably, but the balance
available to keep the workman’s loom or
other tools of trade in order, or to buy
improved appliances, dropped considerably.
Plainly the policy of shoving up wages,
without any corresponding increase in the
tariff —and the tariff is the only thing which
prevents the high-wage Australian being
swamped out of existence by low-wage
people outside—was near the breaking-
point before the European troubles
appeared.
Australia is supposed to float loans
abroad for public works purposes only. In
reality it pawns posterity to German and
other foreign financiers to pay for foreign
boots and clothes and iron-ware and sun-
dries, so that its people may be out of work,
and its population may not increase, and its
capacity for defence may be kept as low as
possible. Loans are floated abroad because,
if this country sent out enough gold to cover
the difference between its scanty exports on
one side and its imports and its foreign
interest bill on the other, there would, in-
side two years, be hardly a copper left in
the community. Supposing that Australia
exported sufficient goods to cover its im-
ports and to cover the interest on its exist-
ing foreign liabilities, it could pay for all
its public works out of local loans (in
which case the interest would remain in
the country), or, which would be far better,
it could pay for them out of internal taxa-
tion. There are two ways, and only two,
in which this reform can be arrived at.
One way is to bring about an enormous,
incredible, unprecedented increase of exports
of raw material; but, unfortunately, with
a drought in view, and with many of the
wool and ore markets closed, exports are
likely to fall off rather than increase. The
other way is to cut down imports ruthlessly
by a stupendous increase of the tariff, and
import artisans instead of goods, and force
a feckless, casual, loan-mongering commu-
nity to depend on its own toil and its own
resources.
* * * *
This implies, as a side issue, that the
Commonwealth must take over the State
debts, and establish a very substantial sink-
ing fund for their repayment. The' Com-
monwealth has no power to prevent people
of the Holman class pawning posterity to
the financier at Berlin or elsewhere. But
it lias power to take over the lOU when it
is floated, and to levy a tax for repayment
purposes which will convince the fool people
who support Holman and his kind that
there is no ultimate profit in the policy of
putting the child up the spout, so that the
old bootmaking narent may be out of work
while the community wears German shoes.
* * * *
As already mentioned, a considerable sec-
tion of the working community is being put
on half-time. It is expected to sit down in
an ill-clad condition while the wool rots. It
is also expected to struggle along as best
it can on foot, because the ores that should
be made into steel rails lie dead in the
ground, and steel rails can’t be procured
from Germany. Its bullock is selling at
a great reduction because the hide doesn’t
find the old nlentiful market in Europe, and
at the same time its boots are liable to
reach famine price because the European
artisan is too busy making war to make the
usual boots out of our own supply of hides.
Even the Foreign-trade journal is short of
German paper on which to print its full and
frank and complete opinion of Germany.
In short, the Foreign-trade policy of export-
ing raw materials and importing manufac-
tured goo(ls and loans is breaking down at
the first teal trial. The trial promises to
be short, so the breakage may not be very
serious, but if another Thirty Years’ War
came to pass, wonderful events would hap-
pen. Apart from the fact that Australia
has sent a handful of troops abroad this
country is as far removed from the trouble
as if it were located in Jupiter. Its
resom ces are unimpaired and its safety isn’t
threatened. It has merely proved itself
some lund of a lunatic. Nobody can sym-
pathise 7 ery much with the New South
Wales workman who is put on half-time.
Despite thousands of warnings he has been,
and still is, Australia’s most consistent fol-
lower of the Import-and-Burst policy which
is at the bottom of the trouble.
* * * *
It is commonly alleged that the war will
give a great impetus to Australian industry,
and that affairs will, from this time onward,
wear quite a new complexion. But, unless
the tariff is radically changed, nothing of the
sort is likely to happen. In fact, things
are likely to be worse instead of better.
Inside -five years, as shown above, the
average wage of the New South Wales fac-
tory employee (including men, women,
girls, flappers, boys and office-boys) lias
risen from £B3 11s. 9d. per annum to £lO9
Bs. 2d. There has been no addition to the
tariff to counterbalance this very remark-
able rise; and every year, as the
import returns and the foreign loan figures
show, the struggle of the local manufacturer
to hold his own against the foreigner has
become more acute. When the European
calamity is’ ended there will probably be more
low-priced dabor available in Belgium and
Germany and Austria than has been seen
thereabouts for a generation. The ruined in-
dustries will have to be built up afresh, and
cheap widows and children will take the dead
men’s places at the looms. With the local
trades-unionist, who is very often also a
Foreign-trader, still pushing up his demands
for wages, the Australian manufacturer isn’t
likely to spend much money on extending his
works, no matter how short the community
may be, for the moment, in the matter of
clothes and boots and steel rails. Unless the
tariff and the whole financial system is radi-
cally amended he is merely invited to be a
cat’s-paw and a stopgap until our worst
enemies are ready to resume business at the
old address. Then he is to be a bad debt.
The situation doesn’t appeal to him. Still
less does it appeal to the bank which finances
him.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Patriots of York-street.
The S. M. Herald is perpetually being
almost persuaded to grow into a good Pro-
tectionist. Then, just when it is apparently
going to take the leap, it sets its ears back
and props on the brink. As one instance of
this tendency to stumble on the threshold
and not go the whole ho°', it came out last
Saturday with a few words about trade and
patriotism, the closing sentence being as
follows: —
Our own people should in future be patriotic enough
to give the preference to Australian or British goods,
and look for Australian or British trade marks, not
for German ones.
And it may be added that our own people
should in future be patriotic enough to avoid
breaking into houses, forging cheques,
assaulting policemen and throwing bottles in
the street to the detriment of George V.’s
subjects, especially as George Y. wants his
subjects just now ; and to kill one of tliem
with a bottle is playing into the hands of
Austria. But in case they should lack the
necessary patriotism the law provides stren-
uous means of compulsion in the shape of a
gaol. The Bulletin doesn’t propose gaol
for the user of German goods, but: a heavy
fine might meet the casej and the handiest
place at which to collect the fine is at the
Customs House. Unless the tariff is boosted
up, the patriotic person who deals in high-
wage Australian goods, made under the
shadow of the Union John and with the
royal blessing and approval, will simply be
undersold and ruined by the unpatriotic one
who sells (possibly under a false description)
cheap-labor German goods. (Germany is
going to be a very cheap-labor country for a
long while now.) Let anyone go along
York-street, Sydney, and look at the names
of the patriots whom the guileless Herald
proposes should be trusted on low-tariff prin-
ciples to push Australian rather than Ger-
man goods when the war is over. Does
Schmidt look promising, or Sciiwabe, or
Schrader, or Blumentiial, or Gottlieb
FreyV Or does the paper pin its faith to
Hermann Gottschalkv
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
4.
The Need for a Bard.
The war is badly in want of its stipendiary
poet—a man who will follow the struggle in
a baggage waggon or a balloon, and burst
into song when anything stupendous is done.
Tennyson rushed into ' metre over the
charge of the Six Hundred at Balaclava,
and though his rhymes were rotten —for in-
stance, “hundred” and “sundered” don’t go
together—he made that little scuffle famous.
It wasn’t very much of a scuffle. The Rus-
sians were already beaten, and were retreat-
ing. They were badly outnumbered. The
Six Hundred had two victorious armies
behind them to give support, and both
armies lent a hand at the rescue of the dis-
ordered outfit. There was a rush upon the
rear of the ruined Russians, and a rush
back. Two-thirds of the attacking force was
wiped out, but episodes of that sort happen
in every war. By accident, however, there
was a thunderous bard around, and he
wrote a ringing rhyme, and tried to make
“hundred” rhyme with “sundered.” The
present war is such a huge affair that in-
dividual acts of heroism are liable to be
lost. When the Russians and the Germans
first met, the Russian commander evidently
regarded time as the great essential. By
going straight at the enemy he would lose
men; by going round the enemy he might
lose a day.. Two cavalry regiments were
blotted out in the sprint on the German guns,
but a third one broke through and cleared
the way. Neither Tennyson, Byron,
Shelley, Bret llarte, Shaicspeare,
Roderic Quinn or Campbell was there to
write up the magnificent suicide, so the
episode only got a few lines of dull prose
in the cable intelligence. The story of the
French Zouaves who plugged into the battle
at Meaux, 8000 strong, and came back with
only 1000 survivors, ought to have been put
into immortal print by David McKee
Wright, or Mrs. Forrest, or Whitney, or
Dennis, but the battered remnant couldn’t
find a singer of songs in the vicinity. When
the British army did its retreat in Bel-
gium, holding back an almost overwhelming
enemy, it would have been a gain to
literature if Homer or Milton or “Bel-
lerive” or Grant Llervey or God had been
on hand to write up the subject. As it
was, Thomas Atkins plodded along
methodically in the mud, and nobody built
a song-and-dance about him. The lack of
the right poet at the- right place and the
right moment has spoiled many a war. A
recent Irish person raised a very humble
scrap at Cremona to more dignity than it
deserved by writing second-rate verses about
it. The battle of Mohacz looms more largely
in history than Leipzig or Chalons because
someone penned or blotted third-rate melody
concerning it. The moral is that every army
should be accompanied by its stipendiary
poet, and its deputy poet, and its assistant
poet, and its apprentice poet, and its hon-
orary poet, and its sub-poet, and perhaps
even by its office-boy poet. Then its deeds
would live in story, and in the end the
public would get tired of them and put the
whole lot into the ash-barrel.
A Sydney Need.
The destruction of Darlinghurst Gaol,
Sydney, was begun the other day, and it was
decided by the authorities to throw the build-
ing open for a week, and give the public an
opportunity for a last, long bask in its
dreadful atmosphere. The “right-thinking”
idea appeared to be that a severely-limited
number of well-dressed sightseers would
transpire; that they would gloat in a de-
tached and refined spirit over the “drop” and
the rest of the prison paraphernalia, _ and
then go quietly away in an uplifted condition
of mind. What actually occurred was a
shock to “Pro Bono Publico” end a cause
of anguish to “Sturdy .Liberal.” There
was an unprecedented rush on the doomed
resort. Thousands fought their way in, and
the longer it stayed open the bigger the
crowds grew. The S. M. Herald wrote a
leader headed “Refinement,” pointing out the
community’s melancholy lack of that quality.
The Minister who had been resnonsible for
the idea publicly heaped ashes upon his
head. And all because the show hal turned
out a howling success instead of a frost.
The moral which this paper deduces from it
is that Sydney is starved in the matter of
historical museums —in the sense of resorts
where the drama of the past, as opposed to
the literature of the past, is featured. It
was a queer commentary on something or
other- —either on the illogicality of the paper
or on the foolishness of its correspondents —
that in the very issue in which the protests
against the alleged morbid rush on Darling-
hurst were thickest there should have ap-
peared, without a word of editorial
rebuke, a contribution urging the estab-
lishment in Sydney of a place along
the lines of the Musbe Carnavalet.
The Musfee Carnavalet is really an
unoccupied Darlinghurst Gaol —only more
so. There one is chown model guillotinefe,
books bound in the skins of dead malefactors,
handkerchiefs stained in the life’s blood of
murdered kings and queens, hair taken from
executed people after their death, and other
exhibits reminiscent of the dreadful past. No
one, either in Australia or elsewhere, has
ever thought of protesting against the lack of
national "refinement” which causes a demand
for a Carnavalet museum. Possibly because,
to be consistent,' the objector would have to
range the whole civilised world with his pro-
testations. In London, thousands go, unre-
buked, every year to the Tower, and peer into
the dungeons, and gaze on the spot where so
many were beheaded in the past. Further
thousands eagerly inspect the Catacombs at
Rome, and the Bridge of Sighs at Venice,,
and the mouldering corpse of St. Charles
Borromeo, in Milan. Cathedral, and the
“oubliettes” of Chilian Castle, and the par-
ticular section of the floor of Canterbury
Cathedral where St. • Thomas a’Beckett
was murdered, and countless other places
which are odorous of bygone horrors. These
institutions supply what may be called the
melodrama of history. The demand for it is
perfectly natural and in every-way legitimate,
human nature being so constituted that when
it is young it reads Grimm’s Fairy Tales,
and when it is old it. makes a success of
“The Face at the Window.” The Werz
Gallery, in Brussels, is. more marrow-freezing
than all the empty gaols in creation ; yet
civilisation would not readily do away with
it. As a matter of fact, one of Sydney’s
great needs is a place which will mirror
the unpleasantnesses as well as the beauties
of the past—society’s defeats in addition to
its triumphs. The Holman Government has
been busy of late resuming fine old foreshore
dwellings like Vaucluse, Greycliff and Car-
rara for different purposes. The next one
.to be taken over might well be transformed
into the Australian equivalent of a Carna-
valet Museum. Judging by Darlinghurst
form, it would be as popular as a good surf
beach.
J*.
A Place Within the Meaning of the
Act.
If the wages paid to Judges and their asso-
ciates, solicitors, law clerks, barristers, tip-
staves, court criers and sundries, while pon-
dering the question of what is a “place”
within the meaning of the Victorian Gaming
Act, were lumped together they would pro-
vide a sum that would go a long way towards
paying for the trans-Australian railway.
The conundrum has again been before the
Full Court for the manyth time. Sol Green,
Melbourne’s eminent bookmaker, was fined
for having used a “place” for betting, con-
trary to the provisions of the blessed statute;
the “place” being a private box at the
G.P.O. Green asked Judge Wasley to
upset the beak’s decision, but Wasley re-
fused, so Solomon, in all his glory, appealed
to the Full Court. The Court viewed the
“place” (a receptacle sin. x 3in. x 4in.) from
all points of the compass, and after listening
to the remarks of several learned gentlemen,
and scratching its own learned horsehair, it
decided that a “place” must be somewhere
where someone can do something objection-
able. Examining Green and examining the
box, the Court reckoned that the idea of
Solomon misbehaving hirhself in the box
was not feasible, for Solomon couldn’t get
into the box, though part of him might do
so. The Bulletin would like to remind the
Court that, about eight years ago, it settled
this vexed question in a leading article, and
if his joint and several Honor had read that
article he might have been saved a lot of
trouble. Perhaps his Honor was too mean
to pay 6d. for the paper. This was the gist
of the definition :
A place is anywhere beneath Heaven or above •
Hell, or any other spot whatsoever.
It includes the welkin, and Purgatory, and Wal- ■
halla and Niflbeim and the Happy Hunting Grounds ,
and the Jasper Sea.
It embraces the ocean right down to the bottom i
of the ocean.
It covers the past, the present and the future...
Also it covers superstition and tradition and legend, and!
life and death, and the hope and fear of a hereafter,,
and the beginning of things and the end of things,
and all things or scarcity S-of things between the-
beginning and the end.
It includes everything not otherwise specified.
Inside the bounds of its definition are live animals-
and dead animals and comatose animals which the-
veterinary surgeon has doubts about.
The term is sufficiently wide to account for bal-
loons, aeroplanes, birds, divers, drowned ships, and all’
properties known to exist, or not known to exist, or-
iikely to exist, or never likely to exist.
The highest cloud and the lowest level of the-
deepest wild cat are in the category.
A “place” takes in Adam and the Last Man. A 150,.,
it includes ruins, mummies, re-incarnations, dreams,,
visions, prophecies, hieroglyphics and base imag-
inings.
And if there happens to be any darned thing which l
these specifications don’t cover, that also is a “place”
within the meaning of the Act, and anybody who pro-
fesses that it isn’t shall be hanged.
If some member would rush through a BilF
to the above effect, the Law wouldn’t require
to worry so much about Sol Green. Wh<v
is Sol Green, anyhow?


Aeroplane v. Battleship.
Deab Bulletin,- —The idea is beginning to
get about that all that is required to suc-
cessfully defend Australia and Maoriland
is a few aeroplanes manned by dare-devil
airmen who would be willing to take their
lives in their wings by going out and drop-
ping explosives on a hostile fleet. This
notion should be jumped on heavily with
all the two boots of Gon. The man in the
street is prone to sadly over-estimate
the lighting abilities of the air machine,
and imagines that the easiest way to wipe
out battle fleets is to climb skyward and
drop dynamite on to the decks of the enemy.
This is all so much piffle. Evidently
the general idea is that the decks of fighting
craft are made of celluloid, tin or tissue
paper. The fact is that it is just
about as futile to hit a modern battleship
on the deck as it is to hit Jack Johnson on
the head. Modern, high-angle gun fire
doesn’t land slap up against the side of a
ship. It really falls from the clouds, and
the farther it has been hurled the straighter
it drops. Take a shell from a 13in. gun
with an effective range of about 12 miles.
The gun that delivers it noses up towards
Heaven, and at the highest point in its
flight the shell will reach an altitude of
well over 20,000 ft. So when that shell
arrives it is coming down from a great
height in an awful hurry, and there are
many more, chances of it landing on the
ship’s deck, if it hits its mark, than striking
the vessel on the side. Because of this fact
the deck of the modern lighting ship is
about the most heavily protected part of
MORE BAD NEWS.
THE CHANCELLOR : “It is announced in the papers this morning , sire, that it France is
hard-tressed Spain will almost certainly come to its assistance .”
THE KAISER (smiting his spiked helmet with an anguished hand): “Mein Gott!
Haven't we any friends?”
the vessel. The really vulnerable portion
of a battleship is the part below the water-
line, and that’s where the submarine or
floating mine gets in its work. For
anything dropped from above to be really
effective it would need to come from a great
height, say, between 6000 and 10,000 feet, and
it would have to be strong, and consequently
heavy, in order to give it penetrative power.
1-low many bombs weighing 8001 b. apiece
can the modern aeroplane take up skyward,
and how many men woulu be necessary to
drop junks of loaded ironmongery of that
description? Also, what chance would there
be of hitting anything from a distance of
even GOOOft.j! I am not decrying the value
of the aeroplane in its proper place; but
the air machine is not a fighting craft and
is never likely to be one. It is a valuable
adjunct to the army and the fleet as a
scout, because of its great speed and the
fact that it can go anywhere without need-
ing rails or a road. But the way to defend
this continent is by building up an efficient
fleet along the lines of the present small
Australian Navy—producing a _ 27-knot
fighting force, backed up by sufficient sub-
marines and an adequate man-army and
transport on land. Just now Admiral
Jellicoe holds the North Sea and the
Atlantic because he commands the greatest
fleet backed by the best gunners that have
ever sailed the sea, and the way to defend
Australasia is to build up such an Aus-
tralian fleet that its admiral will be able
to hold the Pacific safe. —Yours, etc.,
Moana.
“10-2-4”; According to Sydney Sun
(11/9/T4) :
A New York report from German sources states
that the Kaiser, who is at the front, drove in a
motor car to a point on rising ground ar.d there slept
the sleep of the weary, undisturbed by the thunder
of the cannon.
He looked worn and haggard. When he awoke he
mounted a horse and chatted dispiritedly for a few
moments with his staff. Then he moved off to a spot
from which he could watch the field operations
through his binoculars. For two hours he did not
speak a word, and then he dismounted and went to
the German rear at top-speed in the automobile which
had been brought up for him. r „ ar(1 „
The Emperor is surrounded by some of his Guards,
who do not leave him night or day.
I put it frankly, as liar to liar, to the im-
postor who sent that message: Is there a
word of it that couldn’t have been deduced
without the necessity of going within IU,UUU
miles of the war, by any person outside an
asylum? Now, had something like the fol-
lowing come along, I should have regained
it as worth while, if only by reason ot its
unexpectedness: —•
The Kaiser had not been near the front till yester-
day. He had been too busy fishing to spare the time.
However, at 9.80 a.m. he drove slowly up in a milk-
man’s cart, which is the customary vehicle for
monarchs in war-time. He looked thoroughly cheer-
ful as was but natural in the circumstances, the
corpses of his subjects being plainly visible on all
sides. After a few joking words with his stall he
grew bored or something, and turned his back on
proceedings. Most of the staff was in a valley. Ihe
rest of it was in drains and under bridges and cul-
verts. The Kaiser used a newspaper, folded into a
spiral, for the purpose of examining the surrounding
scenery. Most War Lords would have used binoculars
—but not William. He proceeded, ultimately, in the
milk-cart above mentioned in the direction ot the
enemy’s machine guns. When last seen the enemy
had opened fire on him, and the milk-horse had been
shot dead. He has dispensed with his Guards. House-
hold regiments are, of course, only used by monarchs
in peace-time. No monarch requires Guards during
a war.
I venture to say that something on the lines
of the above would have produced a marked
sensation. The other only evokes rage.
When I read such stuff I feel that I have
been treated as a member of a vast nursery,
and I blaspheme for the loss of my penny.
It is a serious thing for papers to make
people blaspheme daily over their squandered
coppers.
“F.C.” :—-
The Melb. Age didn’t do Joe Cook half so much
harm in Victoria as the action of the Landlords in
monkeying with Premier Peacock’s Price of Goods
Bill, designed to correct the vagaries of exploiters,
cornerers and such like during the war. Rightly or
wrongly, their attitude was taken as a fair measure
of the Fusion point of view in such things, and
Cook got the resulting kick. Liberalism has, of
course, always contended that it is impossible to
regulate the prices of goods, since the law of supply
and demand attends to that. War, however, knows
nothing of .that law —or any other, for that matter.
War is a matter of getting down to first principles,
and the strongest makes his own laws and imposes
them wherever he can. When the Vic. Landlords were
invited to test this patent theory of theirs they fell
back on another excuse, that there was no need for
any such drastic course; it was a “restriction of
trade” and an “interference with private enterprise,”
and so forth. But the electors remembered the con-
dition imposed—in the interest of private enterprise
—by these same men on the State’s coal industry at
AVonthaggi ; viz., that no coal must be sold to the
public individually. They were told that some of
the wheat then being shipped away was going in-
directly to Germany, and doubtless they recollected
that some of their Tory legislators bore suspiciously
German names — Saciise, Sternberg, etc. So when
the Obstructives met on Tuesday things had hap-
pened, and they withdrew all their amendments, and
passed the Bill without argument, likewise its co-
ordinate Foodstuffs and Commodities Bill. It was
a fearsome backdown for the House of Rich Land-
lords.
[F. C. Jones,' Elgar-road, Burwood, Vic.]
■
The Bulletin desires to mention _ that it
didn’t publish any Melbourne theatrical pic-
tures last week, because the postal arrange-
ments went wrong as usual.
Gye’s illustrations turned up about the
middle of the day on Wednesday, whereas
they should have arrived early on Tuesday.
The reason of this delay no man knows.
The matter has been inquired into very
often, for it has happened very often, and
the only result has been a memo saying that
the complaint was received and that it would
be considered more or less. Presumably
the postal service is rotten. Presumably it
is exceedingly rotten under Cook and more
or less rotten under Fisher. It seems to
be especially rotten under Cook. William
Kelly may have something to do with the
trouble. Without any desire to be unpleas-
ant, The Bulletin expresses a hope that
the person who is responsible may be chained
up in the dog-lcennel of the Hereafter for a
million years, along with his first wife’s
step-mother.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
It may be that the downfall of the German
Empire, the dismemberment of Austria, the
vanishment of the Hoiienzollerns from
among the reigning families of Europe, the
reconstruction of Poland, the restoration of
Alsace and Lorraine to France, and the
recovery of Trieste by Italy will all hinge in
the end upon these few days of stress when
the Belgians held Liege against impossible
odds, and threw the German time-table out
of gear. Ever since then the Teuton has
been about a fortnight late, and that meant
that all his enemies were two weeks ahead.
To quote only one instance, the Germans
should have been at Paris before the Prus-
sians were at Lemberg. It must have made
a difference. Instead of the. Austrian tail
being stiffened and exalted by good men from
France, the German tail was depressed by
the information that its one ally was practi-
cally dead. And Paris doubtless took an
extra absinthe on the strength of it, and felt
that it could knock out a million Germans.
It was apparently by the smallest of margins
that the Allies turned the tide at last, and
started ihe Kaiser’s legions on the back
track for home. If William’s train liadn t
been late there might have been no such
margin.
An ultra-reactionary Tic. Assembly-man
mentioned the other day that Australian
bran and pollard were being sold for export
at a lower price than locally, and demanded
that their export be absolutely prohibited.
Simultaneously the head of a firm of gram
merchants informed Alfred Deakin, as
chairman of the Federal Food Supply Com-
mission, that there was very little surplus
wheat in the Commonwealth, and its export
should be entirely stopped pending a reli-
able estimate of the coming season s crop.
Neither of these persons seems to have
grasped that we don’t export goods tor
amusement, but to pay our debts; and that
these debts have to be paid, if not m wheat,
wool, etc., then some other way. It looks
as though, between the war and the drought,
the Laborites will have a tough .financial
and industrial row to hoe. All tilings con-
sidered. the sooner the promised Protective
tariff is passed the lighter the dreadful im-
plement will be to handle.
[F. C. JoneSj Elgar-road, Burwood, \ic.]
The news that Maoriland s Government pro
poses to introduce some reasonable control
over public works expenditure may be re-
garded as evidence that, for the present at
any rate, the old game played by Seddon and
Ward, and diligently copied by the unimagi-
native Massey, is up. A Board of thiee
members, it is suggested, will act as a sort
of advisory committee, or controlling author-
ity, or referee, or something of the sort; and,
if' Premier Massey gets the right sort ot
men, the innovation should, for a time at any
rate, be productive of good. All over Maon-
land are miles and miles of loan roads and
hordes of loan bridges that have fallen into
decay through the neglect and parsimony of
local authorities, which spend most of then
time composing letters to the Ministry beg-
ging for a remittance out of loans to meet
the cost of repairs and upkeep of the works
which should be maintained out of lates.
This was all very well while the boom was
on, but as a programme it could manifestly
not last an hour after the bursting of the
bubble. The bubble has burst.
■»
“Clifton”: One striking effect of the war
is seen in the Australian Note Issue. The
circulation at the end of last Julj
was £9,712,000. At the end of Aug-
ust it was £11,812,762—an increase of
more than f 2 ,100,000. When peope
feel their stomachs sinking at tnougnts
of battle and bloodshed, and commence to
withdraw their mite from the banks, and to
deposit it in a jam-tin in the backyard l or an
old stocking under the bed, the banks aie
practically compelled to push paper currency
so as to protect their stocks of gold.. Hit
despised ten-shilling note, which previously
passed an apologetic existence with a pro-
geny of only 50,000, jumped m a month to
99 000 In fact, several bank-clerks have
overcome the habit of indulging in a convul-
sive shudder at the mention of the article.
The gold reserve now stands at £6A45 <.L,
the balance— approximately £5, 000,000-
having been loaned mainly to the states at
current rates of interest. If the reserve
stood at only 25 per cent which is the
statutory requirement,, another £3.000,000
would be available for investment. Even it
the reserve were fixed at the extra-safe mai-
gin of 40 per cent., the total sum that could
be invested would be more than £7,000,000.
The present high reserve (a shade less than
54 per cent.) cannot long be maintained.
Both Federal and State Governments are
faced with the prospect of heavy deficits,
and the bailiff will be on the national door-
step, and the only practicable way of meet-
ing the bill, pending the adjustment of taxa
tion, will be to borrow from the Notes Re-
serve Fund. Apart from the interest wliu
it earns and the brokerage, commission ami
other charges which it lias saved to the tetat*
Treasurers who have raised loans from, it,
the Australian Note Issue seems a fail
handy thing to have about the premises in
these times of trouble.
“TJloola” : That characteristic spirit which
at this time of stress led the Sydney Gas, Co.
to jump the price of its commodity, ind,uces
me to mention two different patriot...
They are Lane and Peters, the Burrinjuck
Ham (NSW.) contractors. Learning that
some of their employees were willing to vol-
unteer, they announced that they would
The March of Ivan.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Are you coming, Ivan, coming?—Ah, the
ways are long and slow,
In the vast land that we know not —and we
never sought to know.
We are watching through the daybreak, when
the anxious night is done,
For the dots upon the skyline —black against
the rising sun :
We are watching through the morning haze,
and waiting through the night,
For the long, dark, distant columns that pro-
claim the Muscovite !
Are you coming, Ivan, coming? (Oh! the
world is growing grey
With the terror of the future and the mad-
ness of to-day!)
Are you marching, Ivan —forward? (Oh!
the world is dark’ning fast,
For the crimes of greater nations ’gainst the
small ones in the past.)
Yours, in part, to make atonement, so re-
member what you are!
Ivan ! Sing ! —“The Slav is coming ! On
for Itussia and the Czar!”
Ivan’s Song.
“Yes, I’m coming, IVAN, coming— l am
marching out again
On the weary roads of Itussia, past the
forest, marsh and plain ;
Fast the field and past the village, in the
shine and in the rain—
By the cart-rut and the grass-track and the
jolting cattle train.
(And, maybe, some gleam of glory penetrates
my sluggish brain)
1 am marchina out for Russia, and for
Europe and for you —
But, maybe, I’m mainly marching just
because they told me to.
“I have marched to many frontiers, in the
pregnant days gone by,
When they told us where to march to, but
they did not tell us why.
And they showed us who to tight with, and
they told us where to die.
I have seen our grey battalions to their
Heaven —or Hades—-hurled —-
’Twas enough it was for Russia!- —what
cared we about the world?
“Did one moan of Ivan’s mother penetrate
to other lands?
Did one prayer of Ivan’s father —with his
old and knotted hands?
Did one sob from Ivan’s sweetheart, or
one cry from Ivan’s wife?
Or a wail from Ivan’s children, for the loss
of Ivan’s life?
Marching with the Wolf of Hunger —march-
ing with the Bear of Strength !
We have marched for many winters —but the
end is near at length !
“’Tis a long, long march from Plevna, when
the Bear went to his den.
It is far from the Crimea; Oh ! you did not
want us then !
From the shambles of Port Arthur, ’twas a
weary way and slow —
And our track was always dotted with the
black dots on the snow.
By black dots and crimson splashes you may
trace poor Ivan’s track —
And I think that Ivan’s banner should be
red, and white and black.
“Ne’er was Present-blinded tyrant who
learnt wisdom from the Past,
And there’s one forgot the errand that
brought Ivan this way last!
‘To the frontier, and no farther’ seemed our
motto and our vow,
Since we marched from burning Moscow —
but tve're marching farther now!
Neighbor’s burning house —or city ! —they
are easv to forget;
But we lit a light for Europe that shall be
rekindled yet!
“Never song of Ivan’s valor, or of ‘Russia’s
Flag Unfurled !’
Or the Iron Cross of Russia, penetrates the
Outer World.
Ye! who civilise and peddle, ye who hesitate
and lag,
Never heard the Russian March and never
saw the Russian flag !
You have called on us to save you, never
saying why, or how,
But the Samivor is boiling ! and you’ll hear
and see us now.
“From our garrets and our cellars —from
the little all we had —
Where the winter brings the sleigh-bells to
the streets of I'etrograd ;
From our huts and from our hutches —from
wherever we may be —
From our goat’s-flesh and our mare’s milk
and our black unsweetened tea,
From the silence of Siberia, and the strange,
snow-deadened streets —
From the blazing banks of Jordan, where
we dip our winding sheets.
From our black bread and our vodka—ask-
ing naught, and undismayed—
From our never-empty cradles! —we are
coming to your aid.
“Oh, we leave no bands behind us, blaring
tunes of Tyranny,
And we wave no swords above us, yelling
songs of Liberty;
And no blatant voice of ruler, as we tramp
through dry and wet,
Blares: ‘Remember You are Russians!’ —
we’re not likely to forget.
There are some who have forgotten—merely
men, like you and me—
And one object of .our marching is to jog
their memory.
“You shall hear us, you shall see us —save
the dead and deaf and blind—
While the armor of our winter hardens thick
and fast behind.
We are marching, we are coming, and we ere
not on the sea —
You shall see us on the farthest frontier
of our enemy !
And while you fix up your frontiers, and
remember what you are,
We shall march with Peace for Europe!
back to Russia and the Czar.”
N.B.W.
HENRY JARSON.


THE POLICY OF THE GOVERNMENT
IS BACKED BY THE SOUND
JUDGMENT OE THE PEOPLE.
4*
Ml I 1 1 Mli" M
“A WHITE AUSTRALIA
... and ...
“MACKIE’S
WHITE HORSE WHISKY.
A GRAND DOUBLE.
&
BOORD&SOIV
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
arrange for each man to get the same rate of
wages as he was getting at Burrinjuck—
that is, if the military pay was less, Lane
and Peters would make up the difference.
This rule was to obtain from the day the
men left the works till their return to Aus-
tralia. If, after going to Sydney, any man
should fail to pass the military tests his job
would be kept open for him. However, all
tbat volunteered were accepted, and then
the firm had each one of them insured
for £250, and, to cap a splendid record, pre-
sented the men’s commanding-officer with a
fine charger. To complete the analogy of
Sydney Gas Co. and Lane and Peters, let
me say that neither firm is anxious for pub-
licity. Both are quite satisfied if they never
hear another word about the business:
♦
“Ballot” : Jogging home t’other evening I
read in the evening rag an official letter
from the N.S.W. Attorney-General saying
that it would be quite illegal and absolutely
opposed to the law of the land to attempt
to run a public sweep or lottery as a means
of raising money for the expenses of the
war. Just as I had assimilated this item I
cannoned into a raucous-voiced party who
yelled at me to buy a ticket in the Eight
Hours’ sweep. Seeking refuge in a tram I
turned over the page and found the result,
in big type, of one of the Tatt.’s sweeps on
a big Soring handicap. Getting out I ran
into a friend who nagged at me to take a
ticket in a raffle, first prize £lOO, got up by
actress Grace Palotta, with kind permis-
sion of the lion. Attorney-General and Min-
ister for Justice. Said raffle was in aid of
the war fund. When I reached my liumpy
I found a letter from a female relative
enclosing a book of tickets for another raffle,
conducted by St. Joseph’s Convent, Bondi,
with a request to “try and get rid of a few
i”. the office.” This sweep or lottery was
also by kind permission of the lion. Attorney-
General and Minister for Justice. Now,
are these two hon. Attorneys-General and
Ministers for Justice, or does the hon. soli-
tary individual do business occasionally in a
trance ?
The war, so far as it has gone, can be put in-
few words this week. There may yet be a
revival and a resurrection on the part of the
spike-helmeted legions of Germany, but at
present nothing of the sort seems probable.
The legions were on the run when last heard
of, and were running in disorder. The
French, British and Belgians all had bad
times in the early part of the campaign, but
whatever their losses they got away in good
order, and were ready to fight again next
day. Also, they left very little behind them
in the way of prisoners and guns. The
Russians suffered two defeats at the hands
of the Germans, but the Bear only shook his
ears and put his great feet down and re-
sumed. Possibly the German and Austrian
armies were over-trained, and when the sol-
dier lost sight of his officer in the confusion
of a temporary disaster he found that all the
initiative had been knocked out of him. Too
little training is bad, but too much may be
bad also. Anyhow, the rally of the Fra neo-
British army outside Paris and of the Bel-
gian forces under the guns of Antwerp were
marvellous efforts of recuperation. So far
their opponents have shown no such capacity
for starting business again with the old vigor
at the old address. These beautifully organ-
ised and regulated forces may be something
like the Macedonian phalanx, which was in-
vincible so long as every soldier kept step,
yet went to pieces at a very slight breakage.
Some person—probably a liar —told a story
of how, at certain German manoeuvres, he
saw 14,000 soldiers listening for the enemy,
each one bent forward at exactly the same
angle, and each with his right hand to his
ear. If Joffre and French and Rennen-
kampf leaned forward at a different angle
and listened with the other ear they might
utterly disorganise the rules of the German
game.
♦
“J.P.” : The Rev. J. O’Bryen Hoare, who
passed over at Christchurch (M.L.) re-
cently, earned a crust until 1892 in Fog-
land and Maoriland as a Church of England
parson. In that year, at Christchurch, the
home of patent religions, he founded a brand-
new creed of his own. At first it was
called _ “Our Father’s Church,” then “The
Socialists’ Church,” and at one period of
its existence it was known as “The Cyclists’
Church.” Meetings were held on the road-
side out in the country every Sunday morn-
ing. The congregation and its best girl
hiked out, and then lay around on the grass
while O’Bryen Hoare held forth. The correct
church-going attire for this service was a
cycling sweater, and ditto skirt or pants, ac-
cording to your sex. It wasn’t a bad kind of
church if the girl you took along happened
to be young and pretty. (I think there
was a rule that all girls taken had to be
young and pretty; if there wasn’t there
should have been.) In recent years O’Bryen
Hoare gathered round him most of the
Socialists and Rationalists in the Flat City
and ended up as a Free Thinker. How
freely they think I don’t know.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty 's “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “Du Barry”
Palace “The Face at the Window”
Adelphi “The Rosary”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Gipsy Love”
King’s “The Fighting Squadron”
Royal “The Sign of the Cross.”
Princess’s “Who’s the Lady?”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Auditorium Peter Dawson Concerts
♦
Had it come at any other time, “The
Rosary” might have been in for a crowded
season, but opening when every mail is
liable to bring a fresh ultimatum, the filling
of Sydney Adelphi is a huge job. However,
the show started well. It couldn’t have
gone better on Saturday night had the new
Pope blessed it, and asked all his dearly
beloveds to turn up in full force, or had the
Moderator of the Scotclibyterian Church or
the Anglican Archbish or the Boss Cali-
thumpian urged their respective flocks to
book seats. And if a collection plate had
gone its rounds at the final curtain there
would have been sufficient to pension the
entire company off for life. Written by
E. E. Rose, who dramatised “The Prisoner of
Zenda,” “The Rosary,” though by no means
new in the general plot, goes about the job
of exposing the villain in an altogether
novel manner, and winds up as this paper
has never seen a bellowdrama wind up, in
the repentance and forgiveness of that gen-
tleman. The story is of a Wall-street stock
broker-owner of a fine country residence,
appropriately named Eden —who is ruined by
the machinations of the snake (no relation
whatever to one of The Bulletin’s well-
known poets), per medium of an unknowing
twin sister of the broker’s wife. Father
Bryan Kelly, a fine old priest, with sufficient
persuasiveness and naturalness of manner to
convert even a Religious Editor, drops in
and talks his way into the good feelings of
everyone. Finally, aided and abetted by a
strong ray of limelight, he has an inspiration
and exposes the villain. This general out-
line may leave the impression that the play
is a dull, almost over-religious drama. But
everything is done in a bright manner, even
by the priest, and there is a large amount of
Yankee humor, and a larger amount that
isn t Yankee. For these and other reasons
it would be a shame to miss the show.
Rather do without a shave and haircut for
e w days and save the cash, than cut out
Ihe Rosary” for economical purposes.
* * * *
The original Rosary company has, by the
grace of E. J. Carroll, been specially brought
° ut - Harrington Reynolds, who has been
h ather Kelly for seven years, is, in addition
to anything before mentioned, everything
that a stage priest should be, and just about
ah that the best of the worldly reverend
gentlemen should be. Miss Jessie Arnold,
in. the dual role of the twin sisters, plays
with much feeling and emotion, and Miss
Crace Reading makes a charming Kathleen
“THE ROSARY”
AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
The villain repents.
O’Connor. Quite unworthy of her is the
much-exaggerated, over-acted Charley Har-
?? w (? au J Byron). Albert.McGovern, as
W e ruined husband, and Walter Fenner
(as Ivenward Wright), the snake, who breaks
ad kn °wn laws relating to stage villainy
and repents are open to little # but # friendly
criticism. The humor of the piece is in the
excellent keeping of Miss Ethel Eldred and
George Leary.
A neat exhibition of conjuring and stage
magic opened at the Little Theatre, Sydney,
on Saturday. The magicians, Melides and
lioy Hood, perform their feats of stage illu-
sion capably ; but the majority of the tricks
seem part of the usual outfit of the conven-
tional conjurer. Both Melides, an old gen-
tleman whose French has to be translated
by his younger companion, and Hood do the
usual mystifying things within a tent. The
“Tossing Testros,” jugglers and balancers,
and. subsequently, in a comedy scene,
bluffers, work hard, with pleasing results.
This week Victor Prince comes out in
Sydney with a fresh venture, the Australian
New Comic Opera Co. Its specialty is Aus-
tralian librettos and scores by Australian
authors and composers, and the goods are to
be played by Australian players. He opens
with a patriotic production, “Australia
First,” by D. H. Souter and F. Wynne
Jones, who were legally and morally respon-
sible for “The Grey Kimono” at the Criterion
some three years ago. Wynne Jones
is a man of melodic reputation, Souter is
said to be witty, and Prince was one of the
Firm’s leading comedians until he resigned
to carry out this scheme.
“THE CHORUS LADY,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Trainer O'Brien (Lincoln Plumer) setting a
bad example to the jockeys.
Like the war, the costume drama, “Du
Barry,” is still going on. But, as most people
already know, the drama is mobilised at
Sydney Royal, while the war is all over the
place. Another point of difference is that
it is necessary to pay if you would witness
the drama, whereas the German firework
show is free —sometimes painfully so.
* * *
Those who haven’t seep Muriel Starr look
like a chorus lady are advised —indeed ex-
horted —to haste to the Sydney Criterion
before Saturday. On that evening she is
advertised to descend further in the social
scale, becoming the proprietor of “The Yel-
low Ticket,” without which no Russian lady
of the pavement considers herself quite
respectable.
* * * *
Among the curses of modern journalism
are plays like “The Girl in the Taxi,” now
running at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. It im-
poses on the harried writer the irksome job
of mentioning that it is still at the old loca-
tion, in 10, 15 or 20 different ways, accord-
ing to the length of the run. The really
popular musical comedy has driven almost
as many literary persons mad as pantomime
itself.
** * *
The big punch at Sydney’s Imperial Salon
de Luxe this week will be delivered on
Saturday afternoon, when, in the presence
of the local nobility and the admiring
peasants of the suburbs, a novel entertain-
ment in aid of the Alexandra Hospital for
Children commences. No charitable cause
has a stronger claim on patriotic Austra-
lians than that which has for its object the
health and happiness of the Commonwealth’s
embryo • citizens.
* & Hs *
That old apparition, “The Face at the
Window,” will be found at the Palace (Syd-
ney) on Saturday night. There is only one
Face, and Bill Anderson’s is its profit.
$
Sydney Tivoli is still carrying on business
at the old address, that is to say, in Castle-
reagh-street, opposite the Mont" de Pidtd,
and prices at both places show no advance.
The programme at the Tivoli is exactly the
same as it was last week, except that the
male artists are just one week older and
the ladies nearly a fortnight younger.
** * *
In despite of the fact that theatrical busi-
ness in Sydney has fallen away, and that
the salaries of the profesh are threatened
with the pruning knife (perhaps axe, or
pruning dynamite would better express it),
the daily afternoon performances at the
National Amphitheatre (which might have
been expected to be amongst the first to feel
sick in the box-office), continue to draw
steady and profitable trade. Schell’s lions
(they will eat Daniel for the last time to-
morrow), Brent Hayes (the banjoist),
Millie Doris, Gordon and Day, the Cas-
sellis and others are more or less responsible
for the profits.
** * *
The Gilbert and Sullivan co. at Adelaide
Royal improved steadily as it went on, and
the final “Mikado” saw the best work and
the most crowded houses. Ethel Morrison
is an acceptable singer of the massive type
that Gilbert so unsportingly persisted in
ridiculing. Ruth Lincoln and Dorothy Vane
pair well, so do Frank Wilson and
McKeown, while Villiers Arnold is a good
all-rounder and Walenn a true humorist.
The season recalled many things to the
middle-aged and taught much to the young.
“The Forty Thieves” have just arrived.
Adelaide takes its pantomime at any season
of the year when it can be got, and is duly
grateful. The Tivoli has got down to “sum-
mer” prices—a wise move by manager
Crawford, the effect of which is already
visible. The briskest turns of the week are
the Carpatti athletes and James Teddy, a
newcomer to Australia, who claims various
records in standing-jumps. With feet
together, he flits over a series of chair-and-
table hurdles with not only apparent ease but
very obvious grace. It is a striking turn. The
smaller King’s Theatre seems to be always
full. Ed. Blondell put in an hilarious week
in a “sketch.” He is a sound heavyweight
humorist, but the lady partner in the play
has merely good looks without acting skill.
The Two Cruets have now come in, also
Bogues and Olivotti, and Les Warton (who
was never so good as when paired with
Irving Sayles). Douglas Mawson has given
several shows. As a public speaker he will
never shine; still, he has improved consider-
ably, and his great popularity combined
with his really fine pictures to make his even-
ings a success. Wondergraph shows a lot
of army pictures of the moment, and an
ingeniously-faked Trafalgar of the past.
West’s helps out much patriotic film with
the Adams-Tourrier prize song. A local
Carlos-Yemm effort, however, “Strike Hard
and Strike Again,” .goes with a better swing.
And Show Week has brought the usual crop
of concerts.
& 5;: $
Dolores, the adorable, is due again in
Melbourne this week for song recital pur-
poses, and the most active admirers of that
esteemed artist are endeavoring to make her
welcome the warmest she has known. At
the Town Hall this Saturday (19th) Dolores
will sing in aid of the Belgian Relief Fund.
On the.22nd, 24tli and 2Gth she will be heard
again in what the advt. would call “gems
from her famous repertoire.”
** * #
A revival of “Monsieur Beaucaire,” by
Julius Knight and co., at Melbourne Royal,
comes too soon after Lewis Waller’s produc-
tion of the same comedy of “quality” man-
nahs on the some stage. The unalloyed
theatricalism of the “Beaucaire” scenes is
an interesting suggestion of the airs that
“quality” gave itself in Bath 150 years ago,
when set puerilities were the whole business
of sassiety life, and people whiled their
foolish hours away in studying the rules of
etiquette and in putting on dog. The story
of how Hoyal Blood asserted its superiority
and Noble Birth curtseyed to the occasion,
is in such perfect harmony with its clothes
and wigs that “Beaucaire” may be called a
picturesque comedy. But a brief revival of
the hollow piece of snobbery suffices for a
long time. Lewis Waller gave Melbourne
all that it wanted to go on with, and Julius
Knight follows at the wrong time.
* * * *
Knight’s way of playing the heroic trifler
is more heavy and less French than the other
man’s, nevertheless he shapes admirably in
the part. Julius empties a full bag of
decorative tricks into the performance, and
cuts a masterful figure at all stages of the
stagey narrative. Miss Irene Browne, as
Lady Mary, is an improved reminder of
Madge Titheradge, in so far that she is
larger and has a more full-blooded style than
the dainty little lady whom she seemingly
imitates. Eardley Turner is mostly a capi-
tal Beau Nash, whilst Frank Harvey is a
passable Duke of Winterset. Martin Lewis
wants vivacity as Beaucaire’s confidential
friend. Lizette Parkes tends to skittishness
in her diction. Leslie Victor is useful in
two characters, and the other people, bar
Captain Badger, are harmless enough. Bad-
ger is an impossible creature, who stands
straddle-legged to fire off his noisy insults
and looks like one of the sham flunkeys who
are engaged by the management to give
pomp and circumstance to a grand opera
season. The Julius Knight period starts
its termination next Saturday with “The
Sign of the Cross.”
** * *
Talking in verse of “Gipsy Love,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), this paper referred
to the putty-nosed Roumanian nobleman of
the piece as Dagotin, whereas his proper
moniker is Dragotin, according to the pro-
gramme. The error calls for rectification,
although J. Cannot by any other name than
Dragotin would amount to the same thing.
He always amounts to the same thing, but
sometimes he seems worth more than at
others. This time his value is enhanced
by comparison with the other grotesque char-
acter, played by Phil Smith, who would be
utterly wearisome if he were not linked to
the fresh young gaiety of Dorothy Brunton.
.Miss Brunton’s half of the “Kissing” duet
is a joy, albeit the music is not so pretty
as the accompaniments to Miss Glyn’s duets
with Cannot and Dereck Hudson. “Gipsy
Love” _ will be remembered by its melodies
when it is gone. Miss Elsie Spain’s num-
bers are as sweet as the proverbial pie, and
there is a haunting charm about the “Gipsy
Rover” air which Hudson sings to the 20
lovesick maidens, who pursue him as though
he were another Bunthorne, and move their
arms in measured Sandow exercise whilst
they warble the sweet refrain. Heaven
only knows what words they are refraining
as a rule. Neither Hudson nor the chorus
achieves a distinct enunciation of anything
more than “Gipsy Rover,” but it is all very
tuneful and dreamy, and doubtless the other
words can be identified after frequent
hearing.
** * *
The Melbourne Repertory Theatre will
produce Arthur H. Adams’s Australian
comedy of politics, “Mrs. Pretty and the
Premier,” at the Athenaeum Hall on Septem-
ber 26 and 28. The hero is a Labor Premier
of an Australian State. Owing to a Liberal
journal’s threat to publish what looks
l'ke a scandal he has to marry an
unknown woman within three days, or lose


15he OLD ORIGINAL
DANIEL
CRAWFORD
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
Pitt & King Streets, SYDNEY.
Victorian Branch : 50 Queen Street, Melbourne, s. J. fowler, Manager.
Queensland Branch : 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane, j. a. watson, Manager.
FIRE, ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, etc.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
'Phone No. 236 Central. SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
a by-election and bring about the defeat of
his party. How the Premier won Mrs.
Pretty, and how his wife saved his party
in the crucial vote of no-confidence, form the
motifs of the comedy. Though two scenes
are set in the Premier’s private room at
Parliament House, and though politics neces-
sarily enter into the plot, the play is essen-
tially a comedy of sentiment. On the other
nights of Gregan McMahon’s season
(October 1, 2 and 3), John Galsworthy’s
“Joy” will be produced.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the management
has withdrawn “The Glad Eye” in favor of
“Who’s the Lady?” but reserves the right
to revive the previous farcical comedy before
the end of the season. “Who’s the Lady?”
—Miss Ethel Dane being the charmer in
question—was to come to light on Wednes-
day of this week.
•** * *
At Melbourne Auditorium the return of
Peter Dawson is heralded. Next Saturday
(19th) the Taits wfill put aside the usual
Pop. concert in order to present Peter once
again. He will repeat his burly baritone on
the 26th. Meanwhile Branscombe’s Dandies
have broken out at the Athemeum Hall, and
will stay there until Friday in Show week.
** * *
Melbourne King’s has seen the last of
“Bunty,” and for the moment the house_ is
closed. On Saturday it will re-open with
an Andersonian melodrama reeking of war,
bloodshed and topical interest.
* *
No turn at Melbourne Tivoli these times is
more thankfully received than that of
Tom Kelly, the huge-voiced Irishman
who combines an extravagantly Hiber-
nian face and brogue with expensive
American tailorings. Kelly is _ commend-
able in the first place for trying to be
funny in a fashion-plate outfit. In the second
place- his “wheezes” are funny. They don’t
match his green silk socks, but the young-
est of them are humorous. Miss Smithson
has taken a change of ballads from her reper-
toire, and her head notes are as good as gold.
The De Dio lady’s draperies are colored by
much the same lantern effects as in bygone
years, and Carson —of Jerome and Carson —
throws remarkable somersaults on his _ head.
Also A 1 Rover displays eccentric agility in
a turn which is original and crude.
George Murphy, a talkative juggler from
the U. States, is getting friendly receptions
at Melbourne Bijou this week. Most of his
tricks are old acquaintances, but he performs
them very passably, and opens his white-
washed countenance to good effect. The
Jackalew Russian Trio, composed of a sweet
songstress and two furiously gyrating Cos-
sack gents, are worth a word of approval;
but Pearl Livingstone, billed as soubrette
and imitator, merely displays the faint art
that never wins loud favor. The Carpos
Bros, are still balancing nobly for a living.
Miss Dorothy Harris continues to warble
ragtime ditties, heavily charged with ambi-
guity.
“Tiaki”: My music instructor says
(quoting from Steele’s “Prosodia Ration-
alis,” p. 168) that Italian opera gives the
singer a great advantage in that “the number
of vowel and consonant sounds is nearly
equal.” Then why not write opera in
Maori, where every second letter (unless
preceded by the Maori diphthongs “wh”
and “ng”) is a vowel. I think that beautiful
effects could be produced, and have com-
posed an ode as a specimen. Here it is
Ehine tuku mai tou mango,
Tou kaanga kopiro.
Kia ahatia tou kiri pango
Nga kino korero.
Maku e awhi tou kaki—
Ou ngutu mo te kihi.
E koe te-tau-o-te-ate,
Ko tenei taku mihi.
Translated it runs as follows: —
Sweet maid, give me your shark
And also rotten maize.
What of your sable skin
Or what the gossip says?
I will embrace your neck —
Your lips were made to kiss.
Oh thou, “the-loop-o’-the-liver,”
My greeting it is this.
I could, with a very small amount of
musical training, write beautiful opera,
comprising odes, etc., to raw schnapper,
mussells, fat pork, fleas, love, absence of
soap, chivalry, tattooed lips, wood grubs and
all the elements which constitute lyrical
poetry.
Australia To-day, the National Annual,
announces in the advertising columns of
this issue the fourth of its “Australian
Childhood Portrait” competitions for the
forthcoming number. Fifty or more attrac-
tive portraits of Australian children are
asked for, from every State, under condi-
tions which are fully explained in the advt.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Harrison O.”: “Gipsy Love,” produced
in Melbourne just after the Gilbert and
Sullivan season, confirms my opinion that
Lehar as a writer of orchestra scores is
superior to Sullivan. As an opera “Gipsy
Love” is weaker than the weakest of the
Savoy series, but its orchestration is ahead
of anything in the same line by Sullivan.
In the dance music of the new piece, as in
the Marsovian music of “The Merry
Widow,” Lehar gets a certain wild strain
of melody such as is to be met with towards
the end of Grieg’s “Peer Gynt”; while his
finale to the second act, although concerned
with a comparatively trivial theme, is
superior to that provided by Sullivan even
for so dramatic a story as “The Yeomen
of the Guard.” To my way of hearing, the
difference between the English composer
and the Austrian is, approximately, the
difference between the earlier Verdi, who
was responsible for the barrel-organ melo-
dies of “La Traviata,” and the very differ-
ent Verdi who gave us “Othello” and “Aida.”
“GIPSY LOVE," AT
HER MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE .
The Gipsy
(Dereck Hudson).
The shy young man
(Phil Smith).
The war is no more encouraging to Reper-
tory Theatre endeavor than to any other
form of theatrical entertainment. Gregan
McMahon in Melbourne makes the best of a
bad situation by offering 25 per cent, of the
receipts of his next Repertory season
to patriotic causes. Mac. is staging
“Mrs. Pretty and the Premier,” by Arthur
Adams, on September 26 and 28. On the
first three nights in October he will stage
Galsworthy’s “Joy.”
The Dramatic Authors’ Association
(Eng.) is not giving anything to the cause
of British Imperialism in Australia, seem-
ingly. Jo Smith had arranged an amateur
performance of R. C. Carton’s comedy “Lib-
erty Hall,” to happen at St. Kilda Town
Hall on the 17th inst. —not “ult.” or “prox,”
but “inst.,” as the comic father remarks in
“Gipsy Love.” The “Strolling” Players
Orchestra and Prahran City Band promised
their services, and the gross receipts were
booked for the Patriotic Fund. When all
the printing was out and 1000 tickets had
been sold a mandatory letter from the local
agent for the Authors’ Asso. prohibited the
production. An offer to pay a royalty was
unavailing. The cause of patriotic charity
didn’t matter. So the management hastily
changed the bill to “In Honor Bound” and
“The Nettle,” plus Blascheckian mono-
logues. The performance will eventuate
(d.v.) to-night, the 17th inst.
“Rasper”: Why does the mummer who
follows the original performer in even a
panto, part think it necessary to mimic the
previous person’s mannerisms, regardless of
their good effect or otherwise. -Jessie
Lonnen, as the original “principal boy” in
“The Forty Thieves,” was weak, angular
and quite uninteresting. Her successor in
the part, Winnie Volt, was chosen, on
account, apparently, of her being much
about the same height and slimness as the
other lady, and then she completed the
resemblance by copying the Jessie Lonnen
gait, deportment, smile and air of casual-
ness, instead of trying to put some grace
and ginger into her acting. Talk about the
ghost walking at theatres! The average
understudy, or locum-tenens, is a ghost.
“0.K.”: The libretto of “Gipsy Love,” not
to mention the fact that Jozsi carries his
musical instrument about with him, suggests
that the Gipsy humbug ought to be an actual
fiddler on the stage, even as the late Van
Biene, in “The Broken Melody,” was a fine
’cellist. When he asks the silly Ilona why
she loves him she makes dreamy reference to
the magic of his violin, and practically asks
him to scrape it some more. When the
chorus ladies catch Jozsi alone in the garden
they cry “Give us joy. Play to us ; ” But
he doesn’t play to them; he sings to
them, and they give him vocal sup-
port. Again, when he arrives at the
wine-shop in the second act, the landlord tells
him that his fiddling is what is wanted, but
Jozsi doesn’t fiddle. He travels under false
pretences, as far as the opera goes. He
ought to be Kubelik or iMischa Elman,
instead of a common or garden baritone.
“0.K.” : In issue of B. 27/8/T4 “Mascotte”
commits an arrogant equivocation in saying
“‘Melb’s’ statement (B. 13/8/T4) that
‘Mikado’ opened the existing Princess’s
Theatre in 1885 is incorrect, as that house
started business in December, ISSG.” ‘‘Melb”
was at fault, in his date only. “The Mikado”
did open the existing Princess’s on December
IS, 1886. The performance was a revival of
the opera which had run for 12 weeks at (he
Royal earlier in the year. The first essential
for a correction is absolute correctness, I
take it. Seeing that “Melb” was correct in
naming the show which opened the Prin-
cess’s, the contradiction should have been
confined to the date of the opening. By the
way, Her Majesty’s Theatre in Melbourne
(less of an improved edition of the old Alex-
andra than it now is) was also opened with a
revival of “The Mikado” on Mafficking night
—May 19, 1900. Not the spurious official
Mafeking night, when the drunk had grown
stale, but the Saturday,when the first news
of the relief came to hand and Australia
went mad.
“Mid-Channel”: “Norbell” is not correct
in what he states concerning Charles Ken-
ningham being in most of the original Lon-
don casts of Gilbert and Sullivan opera (B.
10/9/T4). The tenor parts were taken
by Durward Lely in the original productions
of “lolanthe,” “Patience” and “The Mikado.”
At the reproduction of the first two, Robert
Evett was the tenor. Kenningham was in
the reproduction of “The Mikado” at the
Savoy, but the only opera in which he
played an original part was “Utopia Ltd,”
which was the last of the Gilbert-Sullivan
series, and the least successful. He played
the part of Fitzbattleaxe. In the recent
operas, such as “The Gondoliers” and “The
Yeomen of the Guard” Courtice Pounds took
the tenor roles.
“Mid-Channel”: Agree with “C. Ockney”
(B. 10/9/T4) that “Harrison O.” is talking
through his collar when he asserts that “The
chances of this country possessing a Ber-
nard Shaw are remote, bilt there is no rea-
son why it should not disgorge a Pinero.
Shaw has to be born : Pineros and Grundies
can be made.” Pinero is recognised as the
greatest English dramatist, and the only one
to whom the credit is ascribed of being able
to write a play as it should be acted. More-
over, his works typify to the last detail
the master craftsman and the master
dramatist combined, and his “situations”
are the result of skilful building, and
natural, as well as artistic, development.
The quality of his dialogue and epigrams
is unapproachable. He is essentially a
dramatic expert; Shaw is not. Shaw is
but a stage conversationalist, and often-
times so dreary and long-winded that those
who produce his plays have _to start on
the dialogue with an axe, as in “Man and
Superman.” Pinero learnt the art of stage
navigation thoroughly before attempting to
write plays, while Shaw has attempted to
take charge of the ship with only a passen-
ger’s certificate. Pinero has established his
claim to genius in a g_alaxy of masterpieces
(“Mrs. Tanqueray,” “Mrs. Ebbsmith,”
“Iris,” “Letty,” “Mid-Channel,” “Trelawny
of the Wells,” “The Benefit of the Doubt,”
“The Thunderbolt,” “His House in Order,”
“The Amazons,” “The Profligate,” etc.).
Such slabs of lewdness as Shaw’s “Mrs.
Warren’s Profession” do not call for the
birth of a successor.
When the war had been raging just long
enough for Germany to have become very
unpopular, a civic affair, at which an
orchestra was to brighten proceedings, was
held at Ballarat. The orchestra had re-
hearsed a set of pieces called “Sehusucht nach
Wien,” composed by Erik Meyer-Helmund.
As such names wouldn’t have looked well
on the programme some genius got to work,
and the music was produced as “Britannia
Overture—Allitsen.” Next day the Ballarat
Courier said, “The overture simply teemed
with patriotic fervor.” Hoch !
“Norbell”: He was a side-showman o£
variegated experience, and had toured with
everything, from the cigarette-smoking
oyster to the man-eating zoophyte. I sat
beside him on a long and wearisome train
journey, and he told me things. “Me pre-
sent stunt is fleas, performin’ fleas. Easiest
gag in the wide, ’n’ yer can travel yer com-
pany in a matchbox. I’ve got mine ’ere”
(he tapped his watch pocket). “Ye’ve on’y
got ter twist a bit of ’airspring wire roun’
their ’oppin’ appyratters, ’n’ there y’ are!
Then yer puts a dab o’ beeswax on their
tails —just a sensashun, y’ know. It sorter
tickles ’em. When yer wants ’em ter get a
move on yer just breathes on their rudders,
’n’ that warms the wax ’n’ starts ’em goin’.
I’ve got one big bloke runs along a little
tight-rope. Another one climbs a pole, ’n’
I’ve got a team of dog-fleas that drags a little
lorry aroun’ as nach’ral as a brewery wag-
gin. I’ve got a comedian, too. I tethers
’im up to a ’arf-inch nail with a bit o’ fine
sewin’ silk, ’n’ I ses: ‘Ladies ’n’ gen’lemen,
if you’ll give me yer kind attenshun for ’arf
a mo’ I’ll interdooce ter yer notice Bertie,
the clown, the most larfable performin’ flea
in captivity. Bertie was born in Yurong-
street, Woolloomooloo, ’n’ was trained by
Professor Chucklebung, from ’oom I pur-
chased ’im for 50 quid,’ I ses, ’n’ so on. Then
I blows on Bertie, ’n’ ’e begins to ’op like
mad, ’n’ the mugs larf like ’Ell. Yes, it’s
a great slug—better’n Dirty Dora, the girl
that eats mud. J’ever ’ear of ’er? No?
Well, she just let ’er ’air down, V rolled in
the mud a while, ’n’ then they sat ’er in a
tub o’ dirt, ’n’ she’d eat a mixture of choc’-
late ’n’ water —grab it up in ’er ’ands. The
mugs thort it was mud an’ came ev’ry time
at a deener a ’ead. Then there was the
Wild Man uv tli’ Woods ’oo eats mice ’n’
snakes, ’n’ ” But that was my station,
and I got out.
♦ .
“Job” writes: —
In one of the capital cases disposed of by Justice
Sly in the Criminal Court, Sydney, at the beginning
of September the Judge approved of the jury’s recom-
mendation to mercy, and said he would forward it
to the Executive. In the meantime he pronounced
sentence of death on the prisoner. Some time—it
may be a considerable time—must elapse before the
Executive will deal with the subject, and William
John King will occupy the condemned cell until the
hour of official notification arrives. A thousand to
one may be safely wagered that the prisoner will not
be hanged. If he is to be reprieved from the rope
is it fair to keep him on his plank bed with
manacled hands? It is supposed to be necessary to
tie him up lest he would cheat the gallows by suicide.
He very likely does not know that he will not be
hanged, thus the terrors of death and official mana-
cling are imposed upon him under practically false
pretences. The interval between sentence and com-
mutation has on some occasions stretched out to a
month or six weeks. In one celebrated case (but
that was owing to an appeal on the prisoner’s behalf)
the interval covered nearly a year. If a man is to be
hanged the old style of doing it next day or within
a few days has much to be said in its favor ; if he
is not to be hanged, or probably not to be hanged,
he should not be doomed to the anxieties and mental
torture of the condemned cell. Another thing,
Justice Sly promised to forward the recommenda-
tion of mercy, but he need not have done so. He is
not obliged by law to do so. Some Australian Judges
have refused to pass on such a recommendation
(though his Honor Sly would never do that). The
law should be altered in this respect. The recommen-
dation of a jury should be an integral part of the
verdict. When a Judge is called before the Executive
to advise in the case of a capital sentence he often
tries to confine himself solely to his notes. His
notes and his judgment he tries to make supreme.
Judges have turned sulky before the Executive when
anything like cross-questioning was employed. The
Executive waited in one case for a Judge’s death
before it gave merited release to a prisoner whom his
Horsetail had sentenced years before. That sacrosanct
claim of the Bench must be cut away in the interests
of jurors as well as of prisoners. The tendency of
authority is to stand up for the judicial claim, and
only that now and again Executives have shown back-
bone, more injustices would have been perpetrated
against jurors and prisoners.
No skits on cable news can be more humor-
ous than the truth these times. The news
burlesques itself. Here are some contra-
dictory items clipped from Melbourne jour-
nals (mostly the ’Erald) from day to day
last week: —
The following cable message has been received by
the Minister for External Affairs from the High Com-
missioner’s office: “This crowning victory of Lemberg
means that Russia and Servia have accounted for prac-
tically half the Austro-Hungarian army. Germany
cannot expect help from her ally.”
(PUBLISHED IN “THE TIMES.”)
London, Sunday.
Amsterdam reports large movements of Germans in
Northern Belgium, including Austrian troops.
Austrian troops have moved from Lorraine to fill
gaps in the German ranks.
(PUBLISHED IN “THE TIMES.”)
London, Sunday, 9.55 p.m.
It is stated by Vossische Zeitung, of Berlin, that
the calling of all adults to arms has smashed German
industry.
London, Sunday, 11.20 p.m.
Germany is flooding Italy with commercial travel-
lers in order to retain her trade, which Great Britain
threatens to capture.
London, Monday, 3.20 a.m
It is stated that the Germans are actively bombard-
ing Nancy, the capital of Meurthe-et-Moselle, 220
miles east of Paris by rail and 94 miles west of
Strasburg, the capital of the German imperial terri-
tory of Alsace-Lorraine. The Kaiser, it is added, is
watching the bombardment.
London, Wednesday.
A German aeroplane dropped a bomb in Nancy, but
caused no injury, except that many windows in the
town were shattered.
The poor old Emperor of Austria was. at
latest, in “good health,” after having “died
12 days ago.”
THE SPENDTHRIFTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ceaseless patter
Of hurried feet
Out in the street,
So cheerless and cold.
See them scatter —
The slaves of gold!
When they are old
What will it matter?
We’re careless and gay
In the cafg’s glow—
For the world’s a show
For youth to see;
And we live to-day—
While we're young and free.
Care is the Cat —and Mice are we:
But Old Care’s away!
When youth is 501 d....
All bent and shattered,
Illusions scattered,
Weary feet,
And heart’s as cold
As the rain and sleet....
Out in the street,
When we are old !
N.S.W.
ISHMAEL.


3 Guineas—To Measure
The Smartest Business Suit.
OUR “Orient” to-measure suits are the smartest
wear for business or other use where good
appearance is desired. They are tailored by
experts, and a choice of material may be made from
an extensive range of English, Scotch, Irish or Aus-
tralian Tweeds. Exact fit guaranteed and a cut in
accordance with -the latest style assured. These
“Orient” suits have established a name for them-
selves. We shall be pleased to send a selection of
patterns to any address post free on request.
Carriage Paid throughout Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
m
The Latest
Straw Boater
for the Summer Season will appeal to men who
seek the acme of comfort, coolness and lightness
in a fashionable Straw Hat. The hat we illus-
trate is designed to suit fastidious men—men
who like a smart and characterful hat.
This 5/6 Hat
is a revelation in the matter of value—it is of
fine quality, English make. It is of extra fine
plait, and may be had in 2§, 2i, 2§, inch
brims. All sizes.
COUNTRY RESIDENTS through-
out Australia should write for our
beautiful Gentlemen’s Catalogue.
It is posted free. The finest men’s
Catalogue you have seen.
516
s
The Best
Address for
Men’s Dress
CHAS. LANE & Co.
PTtf.
LTD.
Flinders Lane and
Elizabeth Streets,
MELBOURNE.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
“10-2-4,” his Theory :
Far be it from me to posture as a military expert.
Like most of our kerbstone strategists I have not
been to any war. But arguing from what one knows
of everyday life, it would seem likely that the men
who have been in the forefront of the European
trouble, during the last month, must be losing their
nerve. A battle, under modern conditions, appears,
by all accounts, to be a hundred per cent, more
terrifying than the leisurely little rows which raged
during the second half of the eighteenth and the
beginning of the nineteenth centuries. Where sol-
diers fell in hundreds then, they are now slain in
thousands. And the holocaust is accompanied by a
nerve-racking din made up of screaming shell and
bursting lyddite and the rattle of innumerable mus-
ketry. One of the British war correspondents, accord-
ing to a recent cable message, described the spectacle
of a mere minor engagement as “unthinkably awful,”
and mentioned that he feared to close his eyes lest
A DISTINCTION.
THE BENCH : “You are charged with being drunk. How do you plead?"
THE DRUNK : “ Not guilty, your Worship. When I'm drunk and know I'm drunk
I’m NOT drunk , but when I’m drunk and don’t know Tm drunk lam drunk."
he would see it again. What is the mental effect of it
all on the participants? Strong men often emerge
from a Sunshine disaster, or other big railway smash,
in a condition of nervous wreckage, though the
whole thing was over in a few seconds perhaps, and
though .they were unhurt themselves. The skipper
of the Empress of Ireland became hysterical when he
was landed after the wreck. Many survivors of the
Titanic are said to be unstrung to this day. Eight
years ago I travelled from Colombo to Port Said
with a number of Russians who were returning from
Port Arthur. One, a naval doctor, was melancholy
mad. He had been rescued by the Japs, from a
battleship they had sunk. Most of the others were
more than eccentric. Our ship’s doctor told me they
were suffering from shock, and would take months,
perhaps years, to recover. One sees this tendency in
the most trifling things. A gallant and determined
boxer like Dave Smith is knocked out quickly by a
McGoorty. He can never face McGoorty., with confi-
dence, again. A cross-country rider has a bad fall.
For weeks afterwards his heart is in his mouth at
every fence. If the nerve of notably brave men —
men, that is, whose business it is to be courageous—
can be shattered temporarily by such comparative
trifles as a fall from a horse or a punch in the
jaw, what must be occurring in the case of the very
average i len who make up an army? Unless human
nature is different at “the front” from anywhere else,
the Germans who have been battling through Bel-
gium should be now due for the scrap-heap, in the
shape of a hospital for nervous breakdown subjects.
Speaking as one who knows nothing whatever about
the subject, it seems to me to be an ideal moment
for the allies to hurl at the enemy all the Aus-
tralians, Canadians, Territorials and other troops
who have not had their confidence sapped, and their
nerves shattered, by personal experience of the terrors
and hideousnesses of war. A pugilist of little skill
can utterly rout a champion, provided the latter has
the “Indian Sign” on him. If most of the German
troops now in France have not some affliction of the
sort, after their dreadful experiences, they are some-
thing more than human beings.
* * * *
Said the German woolbuyer in a Sydney
hotel: “I ought to be in Germany fighting
for my country.” Said the Australian lar-
rikin in a Sydney hotel: “No need to go to
Germany, old man.” Then there was a
sound of biff by night in a Sydney hotel.
The new far-northern Anglican bishopric
in South Australia is to be called Willochra.
The point was only settled after a long dis-
cussion in the Synod, where it was men-
tioned that in the tiny township already
bearing that name there is “not a single
Anglican.” “The more need for a Bishop.”
(Laughter.) A Voice: “And there is not
even a pub there.” (Renewed laughter.)
Flinders, and Torrens, and Central Aus-
tralia were among the names suggested, but
the native word—which seems to mean
“plenty green-bush”—got a majority of
votes. So far, good ; but the argument that
turned the scale was the lamentable one
that in cadging for English subscriptions a
native title works like a charm. “The name
of ‘Booboorowie’ had a great effect.
’Willochra’ will get £l5, where ‘Flinders’
would only get 10.” (Laughter.) This
world is full of laughter, and some of it is
like the crackling of burnt asses under a
pot.
If the Censor’s office wants to do some
immediate good to the community—as dis-
tinguished from the benefit which it may
be doing the Empire by withholding news of
potential value to the enemy—it will blue-
pencil, or at least drastically sub-edit, those
cable messages which describe the alleged
atrocities done by the Germans upon their
opponents. Many of them are probably
lies. In any case, it does no earthly good
to retail them. The war would not be con-
ducted with a fragment more, or less, vigor
if our papers contained nothing but stories
NO WAITING ABOUT.
" Kin I see the boss?"
“Certainty. What can Ido for you?"
of how the Germans were cutting off
women’s heads by the score, and impaling
inoffensive children on bayonets and (ances.
The only effect of these improbable yarns
is to be seen in the following Melbourne
newspaper item of last week : —-
When three Germans put in an appearance near
the Stevedores’ Club in the afternoon a melee
occurred. Some of the crowd attacked the three
foreigners, but the rest of the stevedores protected
them, and they escaped with a few bruises and a
great scaring.
Members of the Stevedores’ Club stopped work
earlier than usual this evening, and held a special
meeting, at which they declared that no work would
be carried out by them in compaiw with Germans, or
under German foremen. The instant dismissal of
three German working foremen is to be insisted upon.
There is an Australian of German descent
employed at the place where the writer
usually lunches. He seems a peaceable
youth, and he knows no more about Ger-
many or German ways than a tram-car, and
yet he has had a contused eye pretty well
ever since the war began. He has the in-
flammatory cable items about alleged Ger-
man atrocities to thank for his injuries.
By the simple process of wiping out about
three cablegrams per diem, the Censor will
save the police authorities in places like
Melbourne and Sydney the expenditure of
much time and energy. To understand how
necessary this is, it is only requisite for the
Censor to remember what our guardians of
law and order are. Incidentally, it is worth
while to remember that the British royal
family is almost wholly German.
The M.L. Shipping Co.’s liner Kaipara,
one of the remarkably few victims of Ger-
man raiders on the high seas, would have
been a very valuable prize if the enemy had
been able to retain it. From Maoriland it
carried 28,800 carcases of mutton, 23,500
carcases of lamb, 3740 quarters and 748 bags
of beef, 3233 bales of wool and 1314 casks
of tallow. But as Bull’s navy has a mort-
gage on the sea round all the German ports
the Kaipara was a white elephant to its
captors. This shows what command of the
sea means. A few stray British mercantile
boats may fall into the hands of the Ger-
mans before all the hostile cruisers and
privateers are accounted for, but the enemy
is powerless to make use of its captures.
Britain, on the other hand, has raked in
hundreds of fine German steamers and has
secured the cargoes and the vessels, and, in
addition to robbing the enemy, has feathered
its own nest to the tune of millions.
“Thermometer”: In the midst of atrocities
—real and imaginary—it is distinctly cheer-
ing to read that the Cologne Gazette,
which appears to be as good a snuffler as
the next paper, objects to British prisoners
of war being allowed to play tennis when
“they would be better occupied thinking of
their sins and their country, which has
plunged Germany into war.” Such items
suggest the press volcano that labored and
brought forth a curate and a cup of after-
noon tea.
“Carajo”: “Billy Blue” (B. 3/9/’l4)
says “It is over a century since a prize
court was first held in Sydney,” and pro-
ceeds to cite one that sat in March, 1805.
History tells of many before that date. The
Nostra Senora de Bethlehem, of Spain, was
“condemned as a lawful prize” by a Vice-
Admiralty Court in Sydney on May 1, 1799.
The El Plumier met with a like fate on
December 7, 1799, and the Euphemia, Anna
Josepha and others followed. Prize courts
were almost as common as drunks in Syd-
ney before the dawning of the 19th century.
* * * *
The last act of the Eveleigh Sydney
hold-up case and robbery case consisted of
an application to Justice Sly, of N.S.W., by
the Crown Prosecutor for an order for the
return of two bundles of Federal notes valued
at £5BO. The order was made; but one of
the ladies in the case was enabled to retain
25 half-sovereigns because she wasn’t an
accused person. The case uncovered a point
for all those who object—perhaps on reli-
gious grounds—to handle Commonwealth
notes. Notes can be traced —gold cannot.
But what honest man is going to publicly
object to traceable money?
“The Old Soldier”: The ofncial British
casualty returns are ominous. Consider the
first lot:—- *
Eighteen officers have been killed, 78 wounded and
86 are missing. Of other ranks, 52 have been killed,
312 wounded, and 4672 are listed as missing, of
whom 2682 have been tent to the base as unfit for
active service.
Then they are not missing, because the
authorities know exactly where they are.
Missing men are those who cannot be
accounted for, and should be, in the present
war, generally wounded men who have been
left behind by their own army, and picked
up by the stretcher parties of the pursuing
army. The proportion of officers killed and
wounded is enormous when compared with
that of other ranks. It is 96 to 364, or
more than 26 per cent., when the ordinary
proportion of combatant officers in a British
army is only about 5 per cent. - As for the pro-
portion of missing officers to other ranks, it is
quite negligible, a fraction under 2 per cent.
What does it all mean ? The second list con-
tains the names of 16 officers who are known
to have been killed, 58 wounded and 94 who
are reported missing. So the proportion of
missing officers is apparently increasing—
that is, of those whom the British stretcher
parties cannot pick up, but who have to be
left to the tender mercies of the Germans.
THE BLUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ur. Keane, giving an address before a teetotal body
connected with one of the Melbourne churches,
pointed out that drinking habits induce excessive
blushing, and declared that persons of both sexes who
indulged in alcoholic stimulants are much more given
+ o blushing than abstainers are.
So many men have climbed the height
The shocking tale of boose to shout,
To wildly whirl their arms and smite
Old Alcohol, and lay him out,
That ’tis a pleasing change to hear
One learned gent
Who is content
To say a kindly word for beer.
The man who takes his whisky neat
And takes it often is, it seems,
More modest than the one you meet,
Who clings to tea and never dreams
Of trying wine. Now, don’t say “Tush!”
Let science show
The fact it> so,
As proven by the booser's blush.
That healthy, glowing nose you see
Upon the man who swallows gin,
Although it burns aggressively,
Is modesty incarnadine.
It stands for virtue, and appears
To be the bright
And shining light
The Church has lost these many years.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


TO DEVELOP THE BUST.
A simple, safe and harmless way in which
any lady, no matter how thin or old, can
increase her bust development from two to
five inches in a few weeks is to take 20
grains of phormoid, a standard concentrated
food product, just before each meal. For
convenience, it is best to ask your chemist
to supply you with the standard phormoid
tablets, which contain 20 grains each. For
a few shillings you can get enough to last
you two weeks, duri -g which time your bust
should develop from one to two inches.
Many ladies report five inches development
in four weeks, and at the sime time marked
improvement in the general health. Phor-
moid is pleasant to the taste.*
Apparently the Labor Government have struck the
enemy in force in the shape of the war trouble and a
poor season. They must, however, win through while
led by pluck and wisely reinforced by. King George
IV. —the topnotch Scotch.*
Send to-day
2/6
SHARPS
AMIGO
f ° r PILES
WHY SUFFER ?
GET RELIEF.
“SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
An unfailing remedy
for Itching, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES.
[T CURES GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
1
A Popular Flannel Suit.
THE DOUBLE-BREASTED "NO-VESTE” STYLE
Many men prefer a double-breasted suit because the overlapping
front facilitates buttoning. The “No-veste” suit here illustrated
is a very smart style, made of distinctive flannel of fine quality.
It is a light, cool, unlined suit, easily washed, and retentive of
its shape and appearance.
Coat has 2 or 3 buttons, 3 outside pockets, scam and vent back.
Trousers: Side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
Light mid or Dark Grey or Navy Blue Flannel, with faint
47/6
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements when
ordering. Patterns and catalogue of men’s wear on request.
Peapes &, Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY
There have been some idiotically super-
fluous war cables, but the following, which
appeared in Sydney Sun (9/9/T4), was
perhaps the limit: —-
Baron Vonichenk has established himself in an
imposing suite* of rooms in the leading hotel at
Athens. . ....
He possesses a bottomless purse, and daily distri-
butes Germanised news manufactured by Woolf s
Bureau in Berlin. The Athens newspapers, however,
refuse to publish the information he sends to them.
Not a word as to who Vonichenk is, or how
he puts in his time when there is no war on.
Just a bald picture of a futile nobleman,
writing furiously to the papers from a pub,
and having all his ‘contributions basketed
on sight. The laconic intimation that an
imbecile baron was staying in AJhens would
have been as informative and in every re-
spect as satisfying to the news-seeker.
Another cable in the morning press men-
tioned that a Hamburg butcher had covered
the floor of his shop with Union Jacks.
Also a Sydney butcher, who trades near
The Bulletin office, has an obscene-look-
ing bullock’s tail, freshly torn from its late
owner, hanging in his window, together
with the inscription, “This is how the
Kaiser’s tail will look shortly.” If this
item hasn’t already been cabled to London,
to cheer the heart of Empire, it certainly
will be. It is just the sort of damphoolish-
ness that seems to appeal to those who deal
in cable messages.
SAFE.
"Oh, Arthur! When I read how unhappy the
wives of geniuses are you can’t tell how
glad I am that you are just an ordinaly
so rt of fellow.”
By an unlucky coincidence two big sailing
ships were in the vicinity of New Caledonia
early in August when the French Governor
decided to extinguish all the coast lights.
These were the Maoriland-owned barque
Titan fa and the Russian barque Aland.
Neither master was aware that the lights
were out, not knowing even of the war, and
both ships sailed slap into the butt end of
the island. They are still there. The
Titania was skippered by F. Holm, a sturdy
old mariner who has sailed backwards and
forwards across the Tasman Sea almost ever
since there was any Tasman Sea. (Some
say before, but that is doubtful.) This
accident is the first that he has ever met
with, and his language about the cause of it
would melt a clothes-prop.
Teutonian brag is the main factor in the
Australian “set” against the German mem-
bers of the Port Phillip Stevedores’ Associa-
tion at Port Melbourne. These men are
mostly old residents, long-time naturalised,
and their mates would have rubbed along
amicably enough with them if they had dis-
cussed the situation in a moderately partisan
spirit. They might have talked _ German
facts and figures and got an attentive hear-
ing. The Australians and Anglo-Australians
were open to receive instruction as to Ger-
man militarism and its natural bearings on
the trouble in France, where the British
army is. But all they got from the ex-
subjects of the Kaiser was the old brag
that is born in them. The Deutschland
Uhcr Alles sentiment oozed from those sons
of arrogance even when they didn’t skite
about der invinsibul Sherman Army and
vot vas going to habben to der Bridish.
Hence the fighting. Being surrounded by
the enemy, the Sheripans didn’t have to
look far for trouble. One man, who was
taken to Melbourne Hospital, suffering
from a gashed brow, is the naturalised
father of a full-grown Australian-born
family, yet he was always making himself
darned unpleasant concerning his soldier-
governed Farderland. German patriotism
is of the rooster sex. Fatherland
crows and struts and is intolerant of other
roosters, whereas Motherland patriotism is
content to cluck and raise chickens.
“Quetelet” : —-
The incompetence of the quidnuncs ! A Melbourne
paper last week took the utmost pains to gather por-
traits of 25 cardinals, and gave an assurance that
the new Pope must be among them. Yet Benedict
was not included when it seemed a blank impossi-
bility to miss the shot. On the day Assyrian won
the Cup a Melbourne morning paper gave a com-
plete list of all the possible starters —barring
Assyrian. General U. S. Grant was entered by his
uncle at West Point Military Academy as Ulysses
Simpson. His real name was Hiram Ulysses. When
the error . was discovered the family said, “Let the
U.S. remain. It may be lucky.” Richelieu founded
the French Academy, on the ample basis of
40 members, to include all the best French
writers. Yet the best have been left out, so that
there is the common sarcasm of the Forty-First
Fauteuil for France’s most eminent author.
“Leges”: Solicitor-General J. W. Davis,
of the United States, has just visited the
Privy Council in London, and is mightily
impressed by its simplicity. He had
thought the U.S. Courts
could give points to all
in that way, but finds
they have much to learn.
A number of the Aus-
tralian Supreme Court
judges have visited the
London Appeal Court,
and several of them
have given testimony
similar to Davis’s, but
the fact remains that
Australia is far behind
even the United States
in simplicity of proce-
dure. The judges of
the highest British
Court wear neither wigs
nor gowns ! Are such
trappings only to im-
pose on the vulgar?
Idowever, the upholstery
is a minor point, com-
pared with the common
sense. Cases which take
days in Australia are
treated in an hour or
two by the London Ap-
peal Court. There are
no set orations, with
judges merely looking
on and blinking, mak-
ing an occasional note,
and possibly doing an
occasional nap. The
proceedings are entirely
conversational. No man
rises and sweeps his
gown behind him and
holds out his right hand
at a horizontal angle,
and starts to hold forth
for a week. He simply
says what he has got to
say. If he starts to fill
up time by saying what
he hasn’t got to say he
is pulled up short.
m. *
The law has, at times, a remarkable faith
in the efficacy of bail. Last week a Sydney
coroner’s jury came to the conclusion that
a child aged less than three years had been,
to all intents and purposes, beaten to death
by a girl of 16. Whereupon she was com-
mitted to stand her trial for manslaughter,
and released on her own baU to the amount
of £25 and one surety of £25.
he * *
A new use for the printer, and a new spot
lime for all such as hunger and thirst after
advertisement: —
GREETINGS.
Name. —Mary Gwendoline.
Bringing happiness to Mr. and Mrs. G. (setZ/)
Polwizzle.
Born. —August 21, .... 4.30 o’clock.
Weight.—Nine pounds.
THE MOONEY TIME.
SHE: “I wish you wouldn’t moon about like
that.”
HE: "What the deuce can one do on a
honeymoon?”
George Reid’s unfortunate personal
appearance has found a champion in the
Melbourne Argus. The Melbourne paper
complains that “the picture of the High
Commissioner now added to the Common-
wealth gallery is absurdly like a caricature,
which is a great pity.” Also the Argus
is indignant because “the historical picture
of the opening of the first Commonwealth
Parliament” represents George as an un-
comfortable, squeezed-in person
with a libellously red nose. But
this last complaint ignores the
fact that the picture in question
is not accepted as the real his-
torical record of the event at
Melb. Exhibition building.
Charles Nuttall’s work in sepia,
prepared from photographs for
photogravure reproduction, _is
the historical picture, which,
with few exceptions, accurately
presents things as they were.
George Reid here has his proper
place in the third row of
Federal Parliamentarians facing
the dais. The likeness is a
piece of'flattery rather than a
caricature. Nuttall contrived to
reduce George’s stummick to
non - aggressive proportions
whilst preserving the character-
istic pose of the figure. His
“admirers,” of whom the Argus speaks with
sympathy, can gaze upon that faithful like-
ness of the man’s face and garments, and
rejoice to think that posterity will get an
inadequate idea of his vest measurement.
Detective Whittle, of the Adelaide force,
has been able to get damages from an
obscure weekly sporting paper which “went
for” him with a clumsy and thick-headed
half-brick. “Weary Whittle’s wits want
whittling” was one remark objected to.
Judge Gordon said much of the article might
pass as “a silly attempt to be funny” ; but
distinct charges of “nourishing spite” and
“being a coward in the performance of his
duty” were worth £3O damages. A bright
spot about the hearing of the case was that
someone apparently played an unkind trick
on the Register’s reporter, and caused him
to print the well-known detective’s name as
“John Hop Whittle.”
“The Link”: The theosopliical idea of
the origin and descent of man is marvel-
lously set forth in a book called “Man,
Whence, llow, Whither?” This is the joint
production of xlnnie Besant and C. IV.
Leadbeater, and therefore represents the
very core of theosophic truth. In their
quest for man’s origin the authors have
gone back to life on the moon, when the
men and women of the. future were “monkey
creatures” ; and among those ancestral apes
they have identified themselves, as well as
“Alcyone,” their “coming Christ,” and his
brother. Teaching a general principle by
concrete examples, Mrs. Besant and her
lieutenant proceed to trace their own re-
spective careers in many lives, to
illustrate, the blessed doctrine of re-
incarnation. In the narrative, in
order to prevent confusion, Mrs.
Besant is throughout called “Her-
akles” and Mr. Leadbeater “Sirius.”
Fro m the “non-
liuman” stage, ller-
akles becomes, 12
lives later, a labor-
ing woman, subsist-
ing on rats and
such garbage, but
having compensa-
tion in the shape
of “a whole pack
of brothers as hus-
bands.” One of
these husbands' is
identified as the
late Charles Brad-
laugli. It is not
mrnrisihg to learn
that, while she was
a woman in those
early days, she had
“v er y numerous
babies.” In a later
“i n c a r n a tion,”
when she was
ma le, she had Lead-
beater (then a fe-
male) for a wife —
“a tall, rather mus-
cular woman....
very kind to her
rather large fam-
ily.” which latter
included “the com-
ing Christ,” Alcy-
one, and his
brother. Then Lead-
beater becomes a man, while Alcyone and
his brother become women, and Leadbeatoi
has these women successively as wife. It is
marvellous slush !
* * * *
War rages and politicians howl and curse,
but Knibbs goes on, impassively adding and
dividing and subtracting, and issuing the
results to the public. Among the latest in-
formation which he has unloaded on a
careless community is the news that last
year 516 males and 131 females committed
suicide. They mostly used firearms, but
a good number preferred poison. Women,
vain to the last, favor poison. They regard
it as less messy, and hence productive of a
SORRY
“ I had no idea you were married , old man."
"Don't you remember introducing me to Miss
Smith at your sisters? She is my wife
now."
“Awfully sorry , old chap. Hope it won’t
make any difference to our friendship.”
more alluring corpse. If they had but seen a
lysol victim, poor deluded fools! During last
year 1861 mothers, ranging in age from 17
to 45, earned the bonus by the agespey of
twins. Triplets were rather less frequent,
as is their habit the world over. The most
admirable character of the lot was a lady
of 41, who, in 22 years of married bliss, had
increased the population by 20. Last year
she made what was regarded, in her neigh-
borhood, as her supreme effort, and weighed
in with triplets.
SONG OF THE GRINDSTONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A grindstone will be placed on board. .. .Officers
will see that all swords and bayonets are sharpened.
—Extract from military order.
There isn’t a cloud in the sky ;
There isn’t a smudge on the sea ;
But somebody’s going to die
Along of that baynit and me ;
So keep it pressed flat on the stone,
And pour on some water and turn ;
Will he choke? Will he drop with a moan?
Will he get it ahead or astern?
It's peaceful enough here on deck;
The fellows are all half-asleep.
(The Sergeant says: “Thrust at his neck—
It knocks a man all of a heap !”)
You’re getting an edge on it now 1
Let’s feel it,. Bill! Cut yourself? Gee:
Say, it makes a bloke feel for the cow !
Say , but ivon’t it be Ilell if it’s ME !
N.S.W.
COLD STEEL.


THE VITAL CONSIDERATION.
The vital consideration is that Australia must now endure Labor rule in addition to the war scourge and the drougt scourge.
FUSION (the snubbed suitor): "The brute will kick the life out of her, and serve her right, too, the since she doesn’t know a good thing when she sees it."
[Done at 369 Collins-street, Melbourne, by the man whose name is attached.]


1914.— THE RETURN PROM THE POLLS.
(By our cartoonist, who can’t get wars out of his head. Address of cartoonist, 214 George-street, Sydney.)


INSISTING ON ZANETJC COSTS NOTHING but a
little courteous firmness, but wlmt a return it ensures
in the certainty of a permanent copy and ease in
writing! Free sample and full particulars if stamped
envelope sent to Zauetic Works, Leicester, England.*
AUSTRALIAN
CHILDHOOD PORTRAITS.
fourth Series. 7/6 for every photo, used.
"THE United Commercial Travellers’ Association ox
1 Australasia, proprietors of the National Annual,
Australia To-Day, encouraged by the success of
their three last yearly competitions, when many hun-
dreds of photos were entered from every State in the
Commonwealth, wish to include in their coming Christ-
mas issue at least 50 of the most attractive portraits
of Australian children (boys and girls). They want
them from EVERY STATE in the Commonwealth, anti
will pay 7/ 6 for every photo, used ; while all others
will be promptly returned after judging, post paid.
Ages of children to be from youngest babvhood up to
15 vears, and PHOTOS. MUST HAVE BEEN TAKEN
DURING LAST FIVE MONTHS. Previous entrants
may compete, but the photo, now entered must have
been taken during the last 12 months. The help of
ALL AUSTRALIAN PARENTS is cordially solicited
in making these pages of Australian child life
WORTHY OF AUSTRALIA. They will be circulated
ALL OVER THE WORLD. No objection to receiving
more than one photo, from same family. Photos,
must be accompanied by name and address of child
and name and address of sender, and must reach the
EDITOR of Australia To-Day, Commerce Way, off
331 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; or address Box 496
G.P.0., Melbourne; by October 26, 1914.
WORLD-FAMED
F or
QUALITY,
HATS.
For
durabilit.
NABOB BOOT PASTE
Economical, Brilliant, Waterproof, Easily Applied.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. ~
Missing Friends.
|.>OSS, FREDERIC CULLEN, of Wd-
«lAf lington, N.Z., last heard of at Ade-
laide, now believed to be in North Australia,
communicate with Chris, 58 Park-street. St.
Ivilda, Melbourne.
INFORMATION is required as to the
relatives of the late ALFRED ('ANDY,
who died at Pine Creek < Northern Terri-
tory) on 30th July, 1910. He is stated
to have had a step-brother —Ilenry Allen —
who died at Darwin Hospital on sth June,
1910. Both are stated to have been natives
of Victoria. Communications to be sent to
the Public Trustee, Darwin, Northern
Territory.
11. E. CAREY. Public Trustee.
MEW.-— FREDERICK AOK WORTH NEt\. tor-
i' l merly of OARNDU TREFUSIS, near Falmouth,
England. If the above will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear of something to his advan-
tage. Any person who can give any information as
to the whereabouts or the death of the above will be
rewarded. Apply, GEE, Solicitor, 6 St. Stephens
Avenue, Bristol, England.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“J.0’8.”: The Rev. Herbert P. Hare, of
Mount Morgan (Q.), when war was de-
clared, volunteered to go to the front (the
front hasn’t got any address; it rushes all
over the place like a bald lunatic with his
coat-tail on fire) with the first contingent in
the capacity of chaplain. There was com-
petition, however, for chaplain posts, and,
concluding that he might not find an opening
in that quarter till too late to meet Wilhelm,
he withdrew his application and became a
Tommy. Long ago lie was a private in a
British regiment, so he knows something of
Tommying.
LANGD ON BONYTHON, Adelaide ( S. A.).
Iu some respects the career of Joseph
Earle Hermann, the meteoric Sydney
financier who heard the bottom fall out of*
his glory the other day. recalls Ernest Terah
Hooley, of England. They were both very
sudden men, and apparently they were
equally incapable of keeping their accounts
in an intelligible shape. Ilooley’s books
looked as if they had been written up by a
cannibal or a whirlwind, and though he did
his record breakage many years ago no one
has really got the hang of his affairs to this
day.
The home of an old Sydney identity and
money spinner, John Ilardie, south of the
School of Arts, I’itt-street. was demolished
last week. The old gentleman carried on a
bakery on the George-street end of the block
—with a business that was established in
the late ’4o’s by George Wilkie, who also
ran the London Tavern adjoining, after
Mi’. Edward Samuel, he who opened the
lirst “private” bar. John Ilardie was an
alderman, and was Mayor of Sydney in
1884.
ALLIED AGAINST HIM.
WAR CORRESPONDENT: "Well, there seems to
be no difference of of inion among them
about me, at any rate
Now and then the old man gets a show
as well as the young one. General Ban,
who broke the centre of the German line in
the great battle outside Paris, while French
was busy bursting up the Teutons further
west, is a one-handed man. He lost a hand
fighting against the Germans in the war of
44 years ago, and he has been waiting for
satisfaction ever since.
Died at the age of 66, Ilenniker Heaton,
one of Australia’s small crop' of baronets.
He was born at Rochester (England), but
came to Australia early. Here he married
a daughter of the Sydney Evening News,
and developed into an heroic advertisement
canvasser, and made money, and inherited
money, and shoved things along marvellously.
By reason of a genius for the limelight he
became commissioner for almost everything
under the sun, and got a gold casket pre-
sented to him in London, and a silver casket
in Canterbury, and was banqueted and cabled
about to an amazing extent. With his Aus-
tralian money lie went back to England, and
became a Tory M.P., which job he held for
25 years. The peerage that he yearned for
never came. Ilenniker never made an enemy
if he could help it. nor did he ever miss a
chance to pour kindly grease over a possible
friend.
“Jeaines” writes :—-
The S. M. Herald, writing of Pertab Singh—
whom it called Singhj—said:—
He has gained himself a welcome in any gathering
of Englishmen in India. He is one whom Lord
Roberts saw' fit to shake by the hand and address as
“old friend.”
As though it were a patronising act on the part of
Englishmen to welcome him and a condescension on
Roberts’s part to grasp his hand. The fact is
Pertab Singh has always been more a sportsman than
a warrior, and as much a courtier as either. He was
best known till 20 years ago, or less, as a champion
polo-playjr. Also, he shared with the then Maharajah
of Cooch Behar the intimate friendship of Edward
VII. Fashionable Englishmen of a few generations
back did not merely welcome these two potentates;
they almost grovelled to them. Some reasons, were
that they were in a position to provide better polo,
shooting and so forth than any other men in India ;
and that not to come to India recommended to them
was equivalent to being an admitted nonentity,
socially, in London. A weakness of Lord Roberts —
which, by the way, neither Kitchener nor French has
ever shared—is a vast respect for people who are
popular at Court. His staffs have alwaj's been more
noted for birth than brains. Pertab Singh, as a
man whom British royalties have always delighted
to honor, would have been sure of Roberts’s friend-
ship had he ne>»r seen a shot fired in anger.
By “Solomon Malaprop” :
A late cablegram states that the ancient Emperor
of Austria is feeling very well. There is no reason to
disbelieve the statement. St. Peter is also feeling
very well, likewise Paul and Silas and Jeremiah and
Moses and other people. The old Austrian potentate
was up against ah impossible set of circumstances lor
66 years, and he did about as good work as any man
could do when he was appointed to keep the peace
among 18 nations that hated each other like the very
Devil. Anybody who got to Heaven after a life of
that sort would feel very well.
Signed journalism breaks out in curious
places. The other day a fraud who was
driving a motor-car in a Sydney street col-
lided with and bruised a lady. His name
was demanded, and presumably lie racked
his brain for one that would suit. Then he
evidently remembered a signature he saw in
The Bulletin —that of a man whose worst
vice is the writing of political verse—and
lie gave that. Last Monday the writer was
disturbed in the centre of his best poem by
the arrival of the bill.
“Jeaines” on some prominent warriors
alive and dead
The Duke of Westminster, who appears to have
earned the first V.C. of the war, and who followed it
up by a venturesome effort in a motor-car, is the
despair of British wowserdom. 'the genuine British
wowser leaps, as though stung, every time the Duke's
name is mentioned. He resembles Max Beerbohm’s
Lord George Hell, who, when virtuous women raised
their skirts in horror as he passed, was wont to stop
and through his eyeglass lightly appraise their ankles,
lhe Duke is not yet 40, and has just been separated
from his wife. He is one of the best horsemen in
England, but being tall and heavy, has had to forego
steeplechasing of late years. He helped to finance the
polo team,before last that went to New York, and
announced that he would eat his hat or his boots, or
something, if they didn’t bring back the ashes. They
got well beaten, bat I never. heard that he ate any-
thing unusual. The De Crespigny who was killed
with the Queen’s Bays comes of a famous fighting
family. He is a son of the amazing old baronet
(Sir Claude) whose life has been one. prolonged
uproar. All the Dc Crespignys are in the army,
barring one who is a sailor, and whom Sydneyites will
remember as the rider of several steeplechasers at
Randwick 12 or 15 years ago. The Brooke who was
killed at the same time as Captain de Crespigny is a
son of Rajah Brooke, of Sarawak, and was in the 16th
Lancers. The original Brooke settled down on Sara-
wak and made himself a kind of king. The present
man is his nephew. Prince Ernest of Saxe-Meningen—
also dead —was elderly and poor, and the husband of
a lady with neither money nor birth to render her
acceptable, but he was one of the most popular Ger-
man princelings in Europe. His morganatic marriage,
20 years ago, nearly caused his relatives of the
Kaiser’s side of his family to burst with annoyance.
And then, his mother having died, his father pro-
ceeded to marry morganatically also. By the way,
the assumption of the local papers that the British
cavalry regiments are officered by “aristocrats” is
absurd. The S. M. Herald said on Saturday, for
example:—■
The British aristocracy has in the past weeks
answered all the criticisms directed against it.
With the exception of a few regiments such as the
9th Lancers and the 10th Hussars, the officers of the
cavalry arm are mostly well-to-do bourgeois. The
4th Dragoon Guards, for example, which seems to
have done notably well during the retreat from
Mons, used to be known as the Trade Union. Three-
quarters of its officers drew their incomes from busi-
nesses of one sort or another.
OBIT—SEPTEMBER 5.
And in death they were not divided.
[Done by FRANK JESSUP, 5 Cary-street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney.]
It is mentioned by cable that, during one
of the battles when .Toffre and French were
turning the tide, the weary Kaiser sat on
his horse for two hours in dead silence
watching the whirl of events. Never before
since his accession has he been silent for
two hours in his waking moments. All that
time he neither issued an ultimatum, or
composed an opera, or founded a new civi-
lisation, or re-organised the army, or did
anything. It reads like the story of a
broken man.
Sir Sydney Buxton, the new G.-G. of
S’Africa, is an offshoot of the beerocraey.
Truman, Hanbury and Go., in which the
head of the Buxton family used to be a
partner, was one of the first of the big
brewery firms in England.
DICKY HAYNES, K. C. , Perth.
“B.” writes :—-
What I admire about these German generals is
their ability to rise superior to circumstances. Take
Yon Emmich. The cables told of this brave man,
humiliated by the first successes of the despised
Belgians, writing a heartrending farewell to his wife
in Berlin and then committing suicide. Three
weeks later he recovered sufficiently to receive the
sword of the Commandant of the Liege forts when he
surrendered to the Germans. Von Emmich's contempt
of death was equalled by Von Buelow. The cable
told a detailed story of how a Belgian youth, at
Louvain, slew Von Buelow, stole his pants and took
135,000 francs from the defunct General’s coat.
King Albert took the francs and allowed the young
man to keep the pants. On September 12 Von
Buelow (in a pair of borrowed trousers, it would
seem) conducted a retreating mob of Germans across
the Marne. These men are good examples of what
the German military system can produce.
Registrar Atkins, the “Lay Bishop of
Sydney.” has been presented with an ad-
dress signed by the Archbishop and mem-
bers (clerical and lay) of the Standing
Committee of the Archdiocese. He entered
the service of the Chapter House in the
first year of Bishop Barker (1554), and
has been hard at it ever since. When he
started clerical toil there were but five
bishoprics in Australia (Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Tasmania and Newcastle). Now
there are 21. The Lay-bish. never did any-
thing madly sensational in his time —he
didn’t build a local Milan cathedral, or
propound a new doctrine of faith, or any-
thing like that—but he has been a notable
stayer and a credit to his church. Hence
the parchment.
A brief word about a recently-dead Aus-
tralian expeditioner:—
Dr. Brian Antill Pockley, aged 24, who was killed
•at Simpsonhaven, New Britain, had soldiering blood
in his body, derived from the Antill side of the
family. Two brothers, Major John Antill and Edward
Antill, fought on opposite sides in the U.S. War
of Independence—Major John Antill on the side of the
British. His son, Henry Golden Antill, born in New
York, in 1779; entered the British army (73rd
Regiment) in 1796. He served in India against
Tippoo Sahib, and carried the regimental colors at
the storming of Seringapatam in May, 1799, where
he was wounded. He got his company in January,
1809, and came to Australia with the regiment and
Colonel Macquarie (Governor of N.S.W.) in the same
year. He was A.D.C. until 1815, when he became
Major of Brigade. In 1825 he retired on half-pay,
and went to reside on his military grant at Jarvis-
fuld, Picton, named after Macquarie’s estate in Scot-
land. There he died on August 14, 1852. He named
Picton after the Peninsular General killed at Water-
loo. His grandfather, on the male side, was Captain
Robert Pockley, of the mercantile marine, who, after
commanding several vessels on the Australian const,
settled at St. Leonards House (recently demolished),
North Shore. His son, the father of deceased Brian,
gained his diploma in 1884, and built up a very fine
practice in Sydney. Colonel Lassetter married a
daughter of the house of Antill. A sister of Captain
Brian Pockley was married in London on July 21
to Lieutenant-Commander Clinton Danbv, R.N.
A GREAT SEND-OFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A pathetic incident marked the death of the officer
who was fafall.v shot by a patrol of Uhlans while
carrying orders to Field-Marshal Sir John French.
He accompanied the Duke of Westminster in an
automobile, and, when mortally wounded, the officer
rose and attempted to salute,' but fell back dying.
Seeing his companion collapse, the Duke rose" and
saluted the dying officer, saying, “Good-bye, my boy.”
War item.
The captain sat in a motor-car,
A British duke beside
(For when a duke goes out to a war
He wants a motah ride,
And he feels, as ne’er he felt before,
A sense of ducal pride).
A German shot at the captain grim,
Beside the swell recruit.
The shot struck home to the heart of him.
His Grace exclaimed: “The brute 1”
And the dying man, his eyes grown dim,
Tried vainly to salute.
His strength gave out ere his arm could raise
His hand unto his head.
Then rose the Duke, and his ducal gaze
Was perfectly well-bred,
As be said, with pluck beyond all praise,
“Good-bye, my boy,” he said.
’Tis sad to know that a German thus
Can human life destroy,
Though such a fate we can all discuss
With thoughts of pride and joy.
Oh, would that a noble duke to us
Might say: “Good-bye, my boy” 1
VICTORIA.
O. K.


t
P
.
l
wm
ors
7
S
Your Chance!
'THE man who wears an Australian Suit, made of Australian Tweed, is
helping Australia.
We have always stocked Vicars’ Marrickville Tweeds, and you can get your suit
at once with the fullest range of patterns to select from —unequalled in quality, cut,
finish and wear, from £3/3/= Send for patterns and self-measurement forms.
All orders carriage paid.
GOWING BROS.,
“PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS"
484, 486* 488 & 490 George Street; &3,5, 7, 9,11, 13, 15 &17 Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.


SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House,
Clarence Street, Sydney
?ole Australian
Representatives
for
Coventry Chain g Bet-i-grip Brake Lining
.. . STOCKS CARRIED.
Overall, McCray, Ltd.
44 Campbell Street
SYDNEY.
SPECIALTY
ARTESIAN BORING PLANTS—Deep and Shallow—
(Hand and Steam Power). ARTESIAN BORING TUBES.
Large Stocks also on hand—Samson Windmills, Galvanised Water Pipe and Fittings
Sheep and Cattle Troughing, Pumps, &c. Send for Catalogue.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Bank of Maoriland:—
N et To Re- Re-
Aiat-eh, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1960. . £42,348 8 p.c. = £20,000 £22,848 £87,509
1901.. 55,785 10 „ „ 25,000 30,785 118,294
1902.. 64,933 10 ~ ~ 25.000 39,933 158.227
1903.. 54,533 10 „ ~ 25,000 29.533 187,760
1904.. 00,643 12 „ ~ 30,000 80,043 21 a,403
1905.. 49,907 12 ~ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1900.. 50,857 12 „ „ 30,000 20,857 259,107
Premiums on new share issue 50,000 309,107
1907.. 64,901 12 p.c. == 38.750 20,151 335.318
1908.. 71,045 12 45,000 26,045 361,363
1909.. 75,423 18 48,750 20,673 388,036
1910.. 72,374 12 ~ „ 45,000 27,374 41.5,410
Premiums on new share issue 62,500 477,910
1911.. 79,594 13 p.c. == 57.600 22.094 500,004
1912.. 91,260 13 ~ „ 65,000 20,260 520.264
1913.. 95,492 13 ~ „ 65,000 30,492 556,756
Premiums on rew share issue 125,000 681,756
1914.. 120,896 13 p.c. = 94,335 20,561 708,317
After occupying the general manager’s office
stool for 21 years, J. 11. B. Coates now
retires. When he began the bank’s capital
was £250,000 and the reserves nil. Various
amounts have been got in since then, and
early in the co.’s last year shareholders
were offered a further 100,000 shares (£lO
paid to £2 10s.) at a premium of £1 ss.
per_ share. This brings the capital to
£750,000, and the disclosed reserves to
£050,000. The bank certainly had a stroke
of luck to get Ibis money in when it did —
it would not be quite such a simple matter
to induce the public to hand out the
£375,000 just at present. Besides the
£050,000 there are no doubt various undis-
closed reserves. For iusiance, as the retir-
ing G.M. mentions, in 1894 premises and
furniture stood at £126,000; since then
over £lOO,OOO has been spent on erections
sind purchases, yet the item now stands at
only £85.750, so there is a pretty consider-
sible inner reserve there. Besides that, vari-
ous large amounts arc regularly either
written off securities or put to the Pensions
sind Gratuity Fund, which now has a capi-
tal value of £95,100. The result is that on
shareholders’ capital and reserves combined,
tlie profit for the past year is at the rate
of £9.5 p.c. No doubt the profit for the
year lias been abnormal, irrespective of the
extra capital; and it is as well to notice
that the 13 p.c. on increased capital will
call for £97,500 (a figure which profits have
reached on only one occasion). So if Maori-
hind meets a set-back the big dividend will
probably be in danger.
This shows how the bank stands at pre-
sent —a particularly important matter, when
one considers the inevitable hard times that
■are ahead :
Liabilities.
1904. 1913. 1914.
Notes .. .. £273,515 £257,985 £255,899
Rills, etc 368,503 1,058,781 899,674
Deposits . . . . 3,043,440 4,229,440 4,304,654
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 1,788,591 2,318,934 2,527,394
Advances . . . . 2,302,916 4,236,735 4,362,893
Premises, etc. .. 79,855 86,292 85,756
There’s certainly no reason for shareholders
or depositors to shudder when they look
down those figures. The bank has total lia-
bilities of £5,400,227. and of that amount
£2,527,394, or over 40 p.c., is held liquid.
Further, the shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves) amount to £1,458,317; so
that for every £3 14s. lOd. that the bank
owes to the public, it has £1 of shareholders’
money. This remarkably strong position is,
of course, due to the recent big issue. So.
taken all round, nothing short of an excep-
tional national calamity is likely to put the
Maoriland bank on its beam-ends.
The Brisbane Gas Co. :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Dec.. ’O6. .£11,227 10 p.c. = £8,400 £2827 £21,516
•line, ’07.. 11,223 10 ~ „ 8,400 2823 24,339
Dec., ’07.. 12,011 11 „ ~ 9,240 2771 27,110
June, ’OB.. 12,253 11 ~ „ 9,240 3013 30,123
Dec., ’OB.. 13,032 11 „ „ 9,240 3792 33,915
June, ’09.. 13.800 12 ~ „ 10,080 3720 37,635
Dec., ’09.. 15,345 12 „„ 10,080 5265 42,900
June, TO.. 13,453 12 „ .. 10,080 3373 46,273
Land sale profits .. ... 2400 48,673
Dee., TO.. 16,533 15 p.c. = 12,600 3933 52,606
Land sale profits . . . . 2700 55,306
June, T 1 . . 15,694 16i p.c.= 12,915 2779 58,085
Dec., ’ll.. 18,914 12 ~ ~ 10,080 8834 66,919
lune, T 2.. 14,561 12 „ „ 10,080 4481 71,400
£31,841 of reserve transferred to capital \„ 0 Rl7
£5B premiums on new shares f iSa ’ 01 '
Dec., ’12.. 17,902 12 p.c. = 13,104 4798 44,415
£11.466 of reserves disappear, evidently
distributed . . . . 32,949
June, ’13.. 13,284 12 p.c. = 13,104 180 33,129
Dec., 13.. 21,077 12 „ „ 13,104 7973 41,102
June, 14.. 18,274 12 „ ~ 15,120 3154 44,256
How long the consumers are going to stand
it. The Bulletin doesn’t know. A lot
depends on the way the next Queensland
elections go. If the pendulum swings, and
the Labor party goes in, it is more than
likely that Queensland will get: a Gas Act
similar to the N.S.W. measure; and it is
very nearly time it did. The present divi-
dend is something over 10 p.c. on the capital
that came out of shareholders’ pockets. And
he is a particularly mild gas-burner who. isn’t
going to revolt at that. Further, any
Government that will cause these northern
gas cos. to turn out decent accounts will be
flirice blessed. At present the financial
statements are bare, and the wind blows
through them like it does through a ceme-
tery.
The capital is now £240,000. Four years
back it was £160,000, and at least £31,842
of the added £BO.OOO was provided by con-
sumers, who now have the pleasure of pay-
ing 12 p.c. dividend on if. Just what a
good wicket the co. has been on may be
judged from these figures :
June, 1904. Dee., 1912. June, 1914.
Liquid assets ..£40,398 & (50,022 .£56,480
Liabilities . . 3,780 6,373 9,281
Surplus ..£36,618 £53,649 £47,199
During the past few years the co. has been
carrying out some big additions and im-
provements to plant, etc., and the liquid
assets have in consequence suffered, though
£32,000 of new capital has been got in
meanwhile. Since December, 1912, the
“plant, land and building” item has moved
from £211,475 to £252,017. Yet even after
paying the regular fat dividends, and mak-
ing all renewals, extensions, etc., £10.581 has
gone back into the business in 10 years.
And some idea of the size of extensions may
be got from the fact that gas sales for the
past year were £41,538, while for the corres-
ponding term 10 years ago they were £21,293.
It, is almost too good to last, and if the
Federal election results are anything to go
by the chances are that it won’t last.
w * * *■
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne) ;
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Aug., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 1,884 3 d.c.~ 2,916 -- 2,277
July,
1906.. 6,313 5} „ „ 5,000 -- 1313 3,590
1907.. 8,498 5„ „ 5,000 3498 7,088
1908. .10,373 £5/8/4 „ ~ 5,417 4956 12,044
1909. 10,618 5/16/8 „ ~ 5,834 1400 3384 15,428
1910. .12,655 .7/8/4 „ ~ 7,083 2448 3124 18,552
1911.. 14.123 7/18/4 „ „ 9,233 1026 3864 22,416
1912.-16,936 9/11 '8 „ „ 11,979 1813 3144 25,560
1913.. 17.451 10 „„ 12,500 1500 3451 29.011
1914. .18,077 10 ~,. 12,500 1500 4077 33,088
On the strength of what are obviously boom
years the directors hand out another 10 p.c.
dividend, notwithstanding that there is still
a mortgage of £45,000 on the premises, and
that no provision whatever has been made
to pay the big incubus off. The co. might
be able to stand that sort of finance now,
but when Victoria strikes a bad season or
two and the bottom falls out of the boom,
things have a very good chance of going
back to where they were five or six years
ago. Then the 1.0 p.c. will be an impossi-
bility, and the fat dividends of the past few
years will arise between 2 and 3 a.m. and
sit heavily on the co.’s chest. And when
the boss goes round to renew the mortgage
the gentleman who floated the loan will
probably remember that monish is tight on
account of the war and sundries, and will ask
for a little more interest, and the co., hav-
ing forgotten that the loan would some day
fall due, will have to pay. One could under-
stand a dividend at the present rate if the
business were a gamble or there were
a lease due to expire shortly and
it was necessary for shareholders to
get their capital back in a hurry.
But, of the capital of £125.000, no less than
£103,625 is in city freehold, and no one can
wish for better security, for their capital
than a freehold in the heart of Melbourne,
provided it isn’t over-valued. A reduction
to 8 p.c. would save £2500; and this, along
with, say, £lOOO a year from unappropri-
ated funds, would make a very considerable
hole in the bier mortgage in very few years.
And the co. would then make a very consid-
erable saving in interest. Before the pay-
ment of the £6250 of. dividend for the
second half of the year, the co. had liabili-
ties of £24,726 and liquid assets worth
£31,644. which is pretty close sailing.
Naturally, when a concern has practically
every penny it possesses, plus a large
amount of borrowed money in the business, it
ought to make big profits. But the share-
holders would be doing themselves a good
turn if they insisted on provision being made
to release the mortgage, and on a check being
put on dividends until a respectable reserve
is accumulated.
The Hobart Gas Go. (Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Div idend Tax. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’06.. 5242 8/17/9 p.c.= 4620 622 9,309
June, ’O7 . . 5238 8/17/9 „ ~4620- 618 9,927
Dec.., ’07.. 5903 8/17/9 ~ .. 4620 3000 8,210
June, ’OB.. 5432 8/17/9 .. ~4620 812 9,022
Dec., ’OB.. 5690 8/17/9 .. ..4620 1070 10,092
June, ’09.. 5633 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 1250 9,855
Dec., ’09.. 6211 8/17/9 „ ~4675 500 1036 10,891
June, ’lO . . 4571 8/17/9 ~ ..4675 10,787
Dec., TO.. 6688 8/17/9 .. ~4620 500 1568 12,355
June, 'll.. 6678 8/17/9 ~ ..4620 1500 558 12,913
Dec, 'll.. 6617 8/17/9 ~ .. 4620 1500 497 13,410
June, T 2. . 6662 8/17/9 .. ~4620 1250 792 14,202
Dec., ’12.. 6612 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 1500 492 14,694
June, T 3. . 6027 8/17/9 ~ ~4620 1000 407 15,101
Premiums on new shares, £4O .. 15,141
Dec., T. 3.. 6915 8/17/9 p.c.=4830 1000 1085 16,226
June, T 4. . 5919 8/17/9 ~ ~5040 500 379 10,605
This is, of course, the "off” term, but the
half-year has been further off than usual,
owing to the increased expenditure neces-
sitated by the taking over of the Ilobart
reticulation scheme of the defunct Hydro-
Electric Co. This big concern started off
with a bang, but got financially bogged in
early infancy. Then the gas co., no doubt
remembering what happened to its poor
relation at Launceston when the electrical
competitor arrived, bought out the whole
show at bargain prices. Up till now it has
been mainly a case of pay out, and the co.
found it necessary to look for more cash.
So another £17,000 was got in—£9ooo from
shareholders, and £BOOO per medium of
debentures —making, in all. capital £lOB.OOO.
debentures £20,000. Besides that there is
an overdraft of £18,789. And the bulk of
the new money has gone into electric plant,
land and buildings, which have moved since
.Tune, 1913, from £17,954 to £49.971. But
the revenue from that branch has increased
only from £5941 to £7038 in the 12 months.
The co. is now free from competition, and
has a permanent cheap power supply at the
Big Lake. And the Hobart City Council
evidently intends to see that, now the gas
co, has got the second branch in its hands,
it doesn’t loaf. But there doesn’t seem
much danger of that, and if the electric-
lighting business is properly handled, share-
holders should be able to look forward to
something even more cheerful than the pre-
sent dividend. Gas sales continue to move
in the right direction, and show an im-
provement from £14,543 to £15,710 since
June, 1913. The co. will, however, have a
pretty considerable interest bill to face, and
The Bulletin will welcome an early attack
on the overdraft, and then the debentures.
* * * *
The Foster Brewing Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
Jan., 1909 .. £971 Nil £971 £52,671
July, 1909 .. 556 5 p.c. = £1440 51,787
Jan., 1910 . . 2,328 5 ~ ~ 1440 888 52,675
Julj', 1910 . . 6,191 8 ~ ~ 2304 3887 56,562
Jan., 1911 .. 2,507 8 ~ ~ 2304 203 56,765
July, 1911 .. 2,748 S ~ ~ 2304 444 57,209
Jan., 1912 .. 10,065 33 ~ ~ 9504 561 57,770
July, 1912 .. 2,755 8 ~ ~ 2304 451 58,221
Jan., 1913 . . 2,792 8 ~ ~ 2304 488 58,709
Written off Freeholds, £36,591 .. 22,118
July, 1913 .. 2,366 8 p.c. = 2304 62 22,180
Jail., 1914 .. 2,588 8 „ „ 2304 284 22,464
July, 1914 . , 2,955 8 ~ „ 2304 651 23,115
Capital (£57,600) and reserves combined
amount to £80,745, and of this amount
£76,125 is represented by shares in Carlton
and United Breweries Ltd., alias the Brewery
Combine. Consequently apart from a few
pounds received as interest on deposits, etc.,
the co.'s only income is the dividend from the
Combine. Out of its shake (£3045 for the
past half-year) the Foster Co. can pay its
expenses, which are very small, hand out an
S p.c. dividend, and still have a couple of
hundred to put aside. The Combine came
about in this way. For some years up to
1907 the Melbourne breweries had been at
war with each other, and most of them had
begun to feel the effects of the keen competi-
tion before they realised the absurdity of it.
They put their heads together, and the Carl-
ton and United Breweries, which now in-
cludes six of the big breweries, was the out-
come. Capital is £1,000,000, and the new eo.
had the right to take over the premises of the
various companies. Foster’s had property
valued at just under £48,000, which was
taken over. But in 1912 the big concern
decided that it had no use for it, and paid the
Foster Co. £BOOO to call the deal off. Later,
in 1913, the property was sold. Up till a few
years ago the C. and U. B. Ltd. had the
field practically to itself. Now it is up against
the Co-operative Brewery. To what extent
its figures have been affected cannot be ascer-
tained, as the Great Beer Combine or Ale Con-
federation publishes no accounts. Nor is there
any means of finding with what ease or other-
wise it pays its dividend, and naturally this
concerns the shareholders in the combined cos.
considerably. If the Carlton is blown out,
Foster’s, and sonic of the others as well, must
follow it. The Foster Co., by the way, has
only £290 of liabilities as against £7183 of
liquid assets apart from Combine shares.
* * * #
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profit, on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1907.. 2087 581 74 p.c.= 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 1958 313 74 „ „ 1752 150 18.684
Jan., 1908.'. 1952 288 7$ „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 „ „ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 ~ ~ 1912 19,891
July. 1909.. 2211 101 8 „ ~ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 „ „ 1912 21.052
July, 1910.. 2283 1239 8 „ „ 1912 501 22.111
Jan., 1911.. 2342 1043 8 ~ ~ 1912 23,684
July, 1911.. 2626 1710 8 „ „ 1912 20,008
Jan., 1912.. 2714 2956 9,( „ ~ 2281 29,447
July, 1912.. 3132 859 8 „ „ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 21,584
Jan., 1913.. 3038 486 8 p c.= 2294 22,814
July, 1913. . 3237 122 8 „,, 2294 23.879
Jan., 1914.. 3295 423 8 ~ ~ 2294 25,303
July, 1914.. 3471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
It might be just as well to take in this table
straight away:—
•Tulv, July, .Tan., Julv,
1901. 1913. 1914. 1914.
Liabilities . . . . £37,015 £38,657 £41,052 £45,813
Advances .. .. 19,998 105,957 111,683 121,991
Foreclosures . . 72,305 15,947 13,969 10,576
Cash, etc 2,778 284 355 165
So there are not very many more properties
to be disposed of. and the life of the “profit
on sales” column is consequently limited.
More than that, the present general upset
created by the war has already put a damper
on property values, so it is quite possible
that remaining sales will not bring in the
fat returns that the co. has been getting
during recent years. However, the growth of
advances, unaccompanied fortunately by any
rapid growth of deposits, should fill up any
gap left in the profits column by the cessa-
tion of sales. When almost every Victorian
building society fell in owing to the collapse
of values in the early ’9o’s, this one was
among the sufferers. But it was an honest
concern despite its misfortunes. It struggled
on till 1001. when it wrote off a large slice
of capital, and cleaned up its slate. Now it
is a reformed sinner, leading a pure and
blameless life. Liabilities (mostly deposits)
are only £45,813, and there are £132.732 of
assets; which means that property values
would be able to shrink almost 70 p.c. before
the co. would be unable to face its creditors.
And shareholders have done the right thing
in building up a solid reserve and the co.
could now pay the present dividend com-
fortably if profits from sales were to cease
at once.
The Wellington Woollen Manufac-
turing Go. (M.L.) ;
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Julv, £ £ £ £ £
1902 ..10,773 8 p.c. = 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums on new shares.. .. 1413 23,850
1903 . . 9,065 8 p.c. = 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 . . 9,130 S „ „ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 .. 3,950 6 ~ ~ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 .. 5,200 5 ~ ~ 4000 1000 200 24,018
1907 .. 6,708 6 „ 4858 1500 350 24.368
1908 ..11,190 O’., ~ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
1909 .. 6,277 6 ~ ~6114 3000 25,363
1910 ..13,653 7 ~ ~7957 5500 196 25,564
1911 . . 11,685 7 ~ ~ 8074 3500 111 25,675
1912 . . 14,735 7 ~ ~ 8074 5000 1661 27,336
1913 .. 17,150 8 ~ „ 9228 5000 2922 30,258
1914 ..15,545 8 „ ~9228 5000 1317 31,575
The woollen manufacturing cos. in Aus-
tralasia ought to lie making piles of money
these days, but none of them seem to be
doing it. And the two big things against
them are the habit Australia and M.L.
hnv(‘ uf buying the cheaply-made, shoddy
imported article, and the idea the worker
has that if the concern shows a bigger
profit than it did last year, the least it can
do is to allow him to work four hours less
per week and do less work while he is there,
and give him more pay. Then they both
wonder why the local factory shuts down.
The death-rate is especially great among
infant manufactories. But this Welling-
ton co. has long got over the teething stage,
though it is by no means the able-bodied
citizen it should be. Although 31 years old.
its reserves are only £31,375, arid the
trouble is that the co. knows perfectly well
that it will need more capital as it goes
on. The only way for such a co. to
attract new money is to show that it can
pay dividends on what it already has, and the
result is that it pays out much more than it
should. Capital has grown by various additions
from £80.340 in 1900 to £122,099, and,
besides • that, there ate big liabilities of
£05,417. Of that and capital no less than
£107,784 is in stocks, and £80,313 in plant,
buildings, etc. Yet with all that actually
in the business, the company can show only
the poor irregular profits in the table and
the poorer reserves. Even then the profit
is shown before any allowance has been
made for depreciation. And in this kind of
manufacturing co. plant either wears out-
very quickly, or must be replaced bv the
latest model to keep pace with the foreign
concern that pays starvation wages which
would make the most confirmed sweater out
here shudder. ' But the outlook seems
brighter now. and. when things have settled
down, Australians who have hitherto been
Freetraders and habitual importers may
perhaps (only perhaps) howl for a tariff
to keep out foreign goods. Others may-
even go so far as to boast of wearing Aus-
tralian-made ma teria Is.
-X- * * *
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Writ-
ten To lte- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1906.. 2285 6 p.c.= 1340 386 559 5,568
Dec., 1906.. 2328 6 ~ „ 1340 439 549 6,117
June;, 1907.. 2183 - 6 „ „ 1340 408 435 6,552
Dec., 1907.. 2072 .6 •„ „ 1377 455 240 6,792
June,* 1908.. 19248 6 ~ 1490 810 G,416
Dec., 1908.. 1962 6 ~ ~ 1490 807 6,081
•June, 1909.. 2465 6 ~,,1490 968 7 6,088
Dec., 1909. . 2633 6 „ „ 1490 933 210 6,298
June, 1910.. 1627 1101 526 6,824
Dec., 1910.. 2900 6 p.c.= 1490 1743 6,491
Premiums on new shares . . 514 7,005
June, 1911.. 3570 6 p.c.= 1618 705 1247 8,252
Premiums on new shares . . 10 8,262
Dec., 1911.. 3095 6 p.c= 1800 1295 9,557
June, 1912.. 3289 6 „ „ 1800 3748 7,298
Dee., 1912.. 4007 6 „ „ 1800 969 1238 8,536
June, 1913.. 4045 6 ~ ~ 1800 2245 10,781
Dec., 1913.. 3763 6 ~ ~ 1800 667 1296 12,077
June, 1914.. 4147 6 „ „ 1800 525 1822 13,899
Things are certainly looking up consider-
ably for this concern, and although on the
face of things the profits would appear
capable of standing a more gaudy dividend
the reserves had been so starved till a few
years back that the right thing is being
done in keeping the dividends down and giv-
ing reserves a chance. More than that,
there, appears to be no provision made for
depreciation—the sums shown in the table
as written off have been spent on renewals,
but it is hardly likely that these would
counterbalance depreciation of plant, build-
ings and meters, which now stand at
£77,370. Sales of gas, etc., have improved
greatly. Five years back plant, etc., stood
at £57,497, and gas sales were £5390, or
at the rate of 9.4 p.c. on the book value of
plant, etc. ; for the past six months sales
were £10,526. a return of 13.6 p.c. With
such a growth as this there should certainly
be something better ahead of shareholders,
but they will be wise to hold off until a
decent reserve has been accumulated, and
they make certain that plant, meters and
buildings are worth the £77.370 at which
they stand in the books. Naturally with
so large an amount represented by these
fixed assets (the co.’s capital is only
£60.000) the cash position is not altogether
brilliant. Liabilities, including a “tempo-
rary loan” of £13,000, amount to £14.933,
and there are liquid assets of £13.184, of
which stock represents £3429 and book
debts £5545. And a concern with so much
in revenue-producing plant, etc., ought to
be showing better results than the Brighton
co. is. But, as remarked before, things are
looking up. Finally, if the co. can’t show
other gas companies much in the business
line, there are few that turn out better
accounts.
* * # *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quin-
lan, Gray and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
* Nonii-
Added nal
Written to Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £9,538 Nil £22,863 £1,250
1902.. 9,026 Nil - £9,026 10,276
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. = £3750 3,749 14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „ ~ 3750 561 14,586
1905.. 3,983 5 ~ ~ 3855 128 14,714
1906.. 4,177 5, ~ 3855 322 15,036
19071. 5,025 5 ~ ~ 3805 1,170 16,206
1908.. 5,106 5 ~ „ 3855 1,251 17,457
1909.. 6,369 5 „ .. 3857 2,512 19,969
1910.. 7,478 5 „ 3857 3,621 23,590
1911.. 7,329 5 „,, 3960 3,369' 26,959
1912.. 15,667 7i „ ~ 5989 9,678 36,637
1913 10,057 10 ~ „ 7920 2,137 38.774
1914.. 18,672 10 „,, 7946 10.726 49,500
There have been some big changes in the
accounts since last year—no doubt as the
result of the honorable understanding arrived
at by the big Queensland breweries after a
pretty strenuous war among themselves. The
12 months have seen a big increase in the
co.’s property holding, and as most of the
purchases were made with borrowed money
the company now has a particularly large
supply of liabilities. This is how the exten-
sion policy has affected the co.’s figures:—
1904. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities .. . . £65,817 £59,797 £100,048
Stock and other liquid assets 54,699 74,764 83,091
Excess liabilities ..£ll,llB £16,957
Surplus .. .. £14.967
The big liabilities—far too big in comparison
with the rather small capital of £77,547 —con-


PERPETUAL TROSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
The LARGEST and STRONGEST
Trustee Company in Australasia.
Acts as
TRUSTEES OF WILLS 8 SETTLEMENTS,
ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS UNDER
POWER, AGENTS, Bc.
The CHARGES ARE LOW, and the
Management is in the hands
of Experts.
A Booklet setting out its methods and
Charges will be sent on application.
A. J. MACKENZIE, Manager.
R. C. LETHBRIDGE, Assistant Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY.
EFFICIENT SERVICE
under all conditions is ensured
by installing
n
3
GAS ENGINES and
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
Write for Catalogue to
Scottish House, 90 William Street, Melbourne.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The sugar mills of North Queensland arid Fiji,
the mining plants of Broken Hill and Kalgoorlie, tue
timber mills of Southern Tasmania, factories in the
Philippines and Japan, provide- a severe climatic
strain test for transmission belting. And in all these
centres “Pioneer,” the All-Australian leather belting,
has been found best by actual test —its perfect grip-
ping and driving power remain unaffected by climate,
heavy or variable loads. “Pioneer” keeps pulleys
turning at top speed all the time. Only the centre
cuts of flawless Australian ox hides and the best
materials are used in the manufacture of “Pioneer.”
and it is used in every up-to-date plant where per-
fect driving power is prized. Send the length of
your belt drives to our nearest office, and we’ll for-
ward you profit-building particulars. “Pioneer” is
made only by J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., “Pioneer"
Works, 117 York Street, Sydney (opp. Q. V.
Markets). Sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell, Pty.,
Ltd., Flinders Street, Melbourne; South Australia:
J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; Queens-
land: Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane;
W. Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth; Broken Hill: Geo. 0. Dempster, Argent Street. ;
C. A. Parsons & Co. Ltd., Newcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons' Steam Turbine may be geared to a slow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo pump-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the high-
speed turbine is still maintained. The Union
steamer Malieno has recently been re-engined and fitted;
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are-
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Perth.*
* * * *
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about luTlj an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in. time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Kng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [3
* * * *
Extract from Tiie Review, London, December 5,
1913:—“The Colonial Mutual occupies a unique posi-
tion amongst offices doing business in Australia, inas-
much as it is the first office in that country to submit
its affairs (including securities) for an independent;
Government inspection and valuation. The inspec-
tors appointed by the Government have recently re-
ported to Parliament that the Society is thoroughly
‘sound and solvent, and able to meet all its lia-
bilities both immediate and prospective.’ ”* . [fi
PIONEER WOOD PIPE cannot corrode, and is
not, in any way, harmed by acids, alkalies or
mineral-charged liquors. Water is delivered as
pure as at the source of -supply. Catalogue from
the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd , 57 York Street,
Sydney (head office). Contractors to all State
Governments.*
* * » *
Ample evidence of the increasing popularity of
the Hornsby manufactures is the fact that no less
than three mining cos. —Goldsworth Gold Mines
Ltd, Frail a ; The Phoenix. Gold Recovery Co., Hill-
grove; and The True Blue Mines. West Wyalong—
within one week after exhaustive inquiries have
placed their order for the “Hornsby” Suction Gas
Engine and Plant. These plants are recognised by-
experts to be thoroughly up to date, simple to work,
and a vast saving in fuel used, charcoal or coke
being all that is required to produce the gas, and
the small amount of attention required. R. Hornsby j
and Sons Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane.* [2j
* * * *
■T. Mai, cornu Newman. Consulting Miniw ,
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Stve
Sydney.* . » „
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If / 0l write
to Griffith and llassel. registered g'nlbnfr Attorneys,
for information. Address, 77 CnstleVeagh Street,
Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can. 7., e procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade- 7 nd Co., Sample
grinders ami dividers, balances, cm eibles. furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliance- , | ;e pt in stock.
Estimates . supplied for fitting U' ,oratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne,*
Mine managers when requirin' . new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate vf it ), Babcock A Wilcox,
Ltd,, who have supplied the j,. p.,t e nt Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the mnjr ,-jty of leading mines in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH an d Foreign Patents obtained.
(H.usdN A C 0.,. 45.3 Collins Street. Melbourne, ami
delaide. Thirty ft ars' practice. Write us for In-
mtovs’ Guide,*
* J * * *
Assayers, MT47 Managers and Prospectors write
IH. B. SIUMJRW R0 ‘ an -d Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Streer,
vdnev, and Sit Melbourne, for particulars concerning
lining recpW an( i scientific apparatus. Braun s
isc puteetW to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
20 mesh,- Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
/13000, & „: n . prospectors’ balances to 1 1000
rain; W mt • ’pocket transits; gasoline combination
irnac«s; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals: etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality M .iroughout the Empire.
Uonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignl' e
Blasti' |g Gelatine
By*** mite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
sist chiefly of bank overdrafts (£»-,-44),
mortgages (£13,833) and trade creditors
(£25,352), and the interest bill on this col-
lection must be very considerable. _ It the
present prosperity continues the big debts
may not be very burdensome ; but beer is one
of the luxuries that come with good times,
and there must be an end to all things. When
Queensland does meet with disaster, the
£100,048 of liabilities might develop into a
nuisance. This table shows where the money
lias gone:—
1900. 1910. 1912. 1913. 1914.
£ £ £ £ _
Capital .. 150,075 77,147 77,272 77,272 m/,84 ,
Liabilities (less
cash balances) 111,613 60,751 60,097 57,651 8/,918
Premises, plant,
etc 141,535 90,965 86,770 96,436 129,682
Hotels .. 57,165 15,700 13,700 8,700 18,700
Stocks and
debtors .. 76,809 59,202 77,588 72,617 70,961
'Revenue .. 33,358 29,601 33,273 28,78 S 38,357
Expenses . . 22,377 22,026 17,606 18,193 19,685
The biggest movement is in “premises, plant,
etc.,” and the big spring in this item is
principally due to the acquisition of a new
property in Brisbane, a portion of which the
co. intends to dispose of as soon as a favor-
able opportunity- puts in an appearance.
Hotel property is still at a satisfactorily
small figure, and it is the brewery that can
resist the temptation to buy pub property
that is going to feel the least sorry for itself
later on. However it is very unlikely that
the various property items stand in the books
at more than their real value ; as a matter
of fact, they are probably worth more than
the co. takes credit for. For in the over-
haul of about 12 years ago just on half
the capital was written off, and the pro-
perty item was attacked pretty savagely.
Another pleasant feature is the big growth
of trade receipts as compared with the slight
advance in expenses, and if this can be kept
up, and the shareholders don’t ask for more
than the present highly satisfactory divi-
dend, the company should be able to face the
world with a much lighter heart than it must
now have with the big debts and what
appear to be stormy times ahead.
* * * *
It seems that there will be some dis-
closure at last of the affairs of Earle Her-
mann Ltd., of Sydney. About eight years
ago the head and tail and most of the middle
of this concern arrived in Sydney and got
busy as a co. promoter and stock-jobber,
lie was a young man with a large imagina-
tion —a person of airy manner and persua-
sive speech. He waved his arm in a lordly
way and did the thing well. His
company’s suite of offices was soon among
the most sumptuous in the city. Presumably
to account for his large imagination and
bis habit of talking in big figures it was
given out that he had been private secretary
to Cecil Rhodes in South Africa. He may
have been that or he may have been an
ironmongery salesman. After a few small
flutters, chiefly in mining, he took a hand in
a concern for the direct production of steel,
and canvassers pushed the thing in many
parts of Australia. Shares were sold at a
price that must have left Earle Hermann
a substantial profit. Magnificent promises
were made, and whenever something was
needed to counterbalance the non-production
of steel commercially it was announced that
the Duke of Westminster or the Ahkoond
of Swat or some other potentate was con-
sidering a scheme to buy some of the rights
for a million or so and smash the old-
fashioned steel business. Nothing came of it
all, and the co. gradually faded out. How
it was formally ended, if it ever was for-
mally ended, no one seemed able to find out.
Still it kept things going for a couple of
years or so. Then the industrial boom came
along, and Earle Hermann, Ltd., openly or
covertly promoted a number of companies,
or was interested in their flotation. They
were mostly very bad flotations. Paris
House, Ltd., and W. E. Smith, Ltd., were
amongst them, and though they set off with
just the dash that might have been expected,
the quotations for their shares soon fell
almost to freezing point. Rowron Bros.,
Ltd., was a more ambitious proposition.
After many vicissitudes this was got off at
tremendous cost, and the management was
left in Earle Hermann’s offices. Matters
soon drifted into a colossal muddle. Even
the share certificates appear to have been
involved in the tangle. Finally the affairs
of this concern were taken over by a Maori-
laud management, whose comments on the
past history of the co. were blistering.
Mount Oxide also engaged much of the
attention of Earle Hermann, Ltd., and. in
connection with this the tangle was even
worse. It wars, in fact, the operations of
the office in regard to this North Queensland
business which brought matters to a head,
mainly through a shocking agreement made
by the Australian co. with a London finan-
cial group. If half the allegations made
concerning the principal’s operations directly
and indirectly regarding Mount Oxide alone
are answered. Hermann will be kept busy
for some time to come. Incidentally the co.
was an extensive stock-jobber, and no doubt
a lot of money was lost that way. To pro-
vide funds the co. added to its share capital,
nominally £500,000, by a debenture issue, and
some moneyed people of good standing
appear as creditors on this account.
Apparently they were impressed by the large
imagination and the sumptuous furniture
before referred to. The fact that the co.
could sell them shares at say 15s. cash and
offer to buy them back at 17s. (id. delivery
in three months struck these people not as
a sign of most expensive finance, but as
proof that there was a wonderfully able
financier on the premises. Possibly when
they view the dreadful tangle they now
begin to realise that the wonderful financier
might have been all the better if there had
been a plain, dull-brown book-keeper behind
him to tell him exactly where he stood. Just
at present the debenture holders are in
charge, and other developments are highly
probable. Meantime this Young-Man-in-a-
-1 lurry is understood to be taking a rest
cure.
* * *
The half-yearly accounts of the Barrier
Truth (the Labor-owned paper at Broken
Hill, N.S.W.) have been published. The
best the auditors can say on the figures sup-
plied to them is that the paper made a loss
of £395 on the half-year. As this particular
half year was about the most prosperous that
Broken Hill has ever known, the financial
result is rather depressing. The auditors
add that their real opinion is that the paper,
at the time of their investigation, was losing
at the rate of about £lOOO a year. The
statement of accounts shows that £2927 is
owing to capital (there is capitalism even
here !) and £6603 to debenture holders. There
is also £1247 owing for interest on the
debentures, £133 of which is for the half-year
under notice. The other £lll4 evidently
belongs to previous years. As the rate of
interest on the debentures is apparently 4
per cent., and the concern began to. issue
debentures less than six years ago, it is evi-
dent that very little, if any, interest has ever
been paid on the money borrowed. In addi-
tion £425 is owing to the bank. The assets
include the plant, valued at £5192, £1421
worth of “goods” (this valuation is not cer-
tified by the auditors), and £2491 for book
debts —which is a lump of money, and the
auditors’ remark that “a number of the
accounts are doubtful, at least,” seems not
uncalled for, especially as it is also stated
that about £6OO of the amount relates to
accounts that have been either dead or asleep
for over 12 months. The auditors respect-
fully suggest that the income be increased
or the expenses reduced, or both. A recent
meeting of the local Miners’ Association (it
is reported in the paper) proposes to take
over the whole concern and run it in connec-
tion with the union. The Miners’ Associa-
tion is the principal debenture-holder, and
offers to pay off all the other liabilities over
a period of years. From the outlook at
present the union funds will have to meet
heavy deficiencies, seeing that a large defici-
ency' has been incurred during years of
phenomenal plenty.
* * * *
According to the cables South Africa has
arranged that the banks shall, on the Gov-
ernment's guarantee, advance 50 p.c. on the
values of wool, mohair, skins and hides, the
market for which nas temporarily suspended
business. Certificates will be issued against
the product and held as evidence of security.
Presently, as already suggested in these
columns, the Australian Government will re-
quire to do something of the sort in Aus-
tralia, where the authorities have the benefit
of a bank upon which to rely. Up to the
present our Government has simply had word
with the private banks, and having been
told what they (the private banks) want in
order to meet their position, have swallowed
the dose, thinking that that is all there is
to it. But the State Treasurers must surely
see that they are just about at the end
of their four-notes-for-one-sovereign scheme.
It is good enough for a family, but it will
not support a State, let alone a nation, even
if it consist of only 5,000.000 mouths.
* * * *
“S.C.”: Occidental Gold Mining Co.
(Cobar, N.S.W.) held its half-yearly meeting
the other day, but it wasn’t the quiet,
brotherly affair that it usually is. The eo.
has £5341 on fixed deposit at 31 p.c. per
annum, and an overdraft of £4212, for which
it pays 5 p.c. Besides that it has borrowed
£lOOO from the wife of the chairman of
directors, paying 10 p.c. for the money. Why
the co. should have to pay 10 p.c. on a loan
when it has assets standing in the books at
£lOO,OOO is a mystery. Another item of
£243, which appeared as legal expenses,
turned out to be portion of the £3OO or so
paid to a past manager as compensation for
wrongful dismissal. The Board didn’t know
the cost of treatment per ton of ore, but
thought it could be worked out! Deprecia-
tion was another matter that cropped up.
Apparently a small amount is allowed now
ami again, when the directors feel so in-
clined. Some half-years nothing at all is
allowed; for the term just ended £76S is
put under that heading. Finally, it
transpired that the co. had been offend-
ing against the provisions of the
Companies Act bv employing a director
of the co. as a watchman. Evidently the
company has reached that stage when it
must he handled with great care.
* * * *
T.ast month Hawkins’ Hill Reward
(N.S.W.) crushed altogether 105 tons of
stone for llOoz. gold. The proceeds, £4OO
or so, will do to go on with, and the manage-
ment seems quite confident that much larger
crushings will shortly be treated from the
320 ft. (the deepest 1 and the 200 ft. levels.
It should not require much more than a short
crosscut east of the Exhibition shaft to pick
up the reef at the 320 ft. level. Driving on
this new reef has been done at the 200 ft.
level for about 100 ft. (50ft. south and 50ft.
north), and both faces show encouraging pro-
spects. As ii rule, on this field the pay ore
exists in patches, and the streak is very
narrow, so the estimate of ore reserves is,
to some extent, a guess. The most important
work in hand is the crosscut at the 320 ft.
level for the new reef, which will, if success-
ful, greatly facilitate tin* opening of a small
block of stone between levels.
(Jreat Cobar has had another visit of in-
spection from Bellew Harvey, a director,
who apparently is not quite satisfied that
the big new plant on the Chcsney is an
absolute failure. It is rumored that he
has gone to Wallaroo and Moonta to have a
look at their concentration and flotation
plant, in the hope that he may afterwards
be able to remodel the Chesney machinery,
and qualify it to handle the silicious ores
of the Great Cobar properties. Bewick,
Moreing are said to have severed their con-
nection with the co., and the only work now
being done on the properties is the job of
keeping the water down.
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), after
turning out a million of gold and paying
divs. of £265.000. hangs in the balance over
reconstruction. The people who cut into
the co. over the Lord Nelson North deal had
to rely on the market for what little profit
they made. So they are to sell to another
co. which is to get easy terms. The miners
are ready to back the show to the extent of
sinking another 200 ft., but there isn’t enough
enthusiasm among the old crowd that did so
well out of the (nine to put up the few pence
necessary to carry out the job. Lord Nel-
son, therefore, is threatened with the liquid-
ator’s hammer and a final dividend. After
that St. Arnaud's only glory will be Agent-
General Peter Mcßride.
* * * *
Mount Lyell (Tasmania) in four weeks
smelted 20,627 tons of ore for 601 tons of
fine copper, 32,3980 z. silver, and 8790 z. gold,
an average of 2.25 p.c. copper. That extra
quarter unit with the red metal at £6O is
worth 35., and on the 360,000 tons that
Mount Lyell* furnaces in 12 months there is
£56.000. If Lyell can produce 8000 tons
of copper in 12 months, this means a rise of
£7 per ton in selling price of SOOO tons of
metal sent to market. Another point to note
is that the capital expenditure on the Mount
Margaret scheme is intended to pull down
costs about 3s. per ton of crude ore, which
would square things up even if the extra
quarter p.c. of copper did drop off. An acci-
dent to the electric hoist during a thunder-
storm has prevented the hauling of the usual
quantity of p.vritic ore, and as a result one
of the furnaces was put out of commission.
Still, there is every reason to be satisfied with
the consignment of some 3269 tons of blister
copper this half-year, for before the close on
September 30 the total should be nearly 4000
tons. Plans for the concentration of low-
grade ore are taking more definite shape.
* * * *
Scottish Gymp'e (Q.) crushed 8200 tons
in August for 28200 z.. so this fine old mine
is picking up a bit. No. 3 North Columbia
crushed 538 tops for 4450 z. Total from
Gympie mining cos. w r as 10,330 tons for
40920 z., and for tributors 1420 tons for
6430 z. The only dividend came from No. 3
N. Columbia, which paid 3d. per share
( £800). Calls ran away with £2045 16s. Bd.,
which indicates that Gympie is putting up a
hard struggle to revive its fallen fortunes.
Total return from all sources,, including gold
from cyanide plants and alluvial. wass27soz.
An old Sydney favorite, the South Glanmire
and Monkland, crushed 87 tons for 90oz. It
is now a sixpenny stock.
* * • * *
I levberton (N.Q.) is practical in its
methods, and in order to carry on some busi-
ness the storekeepers are advancing 60s. per
cwt. on tin concentrates. The balance will
be paid when the market re-opens. Of course,
the store requires till money, so probably the
tin sluicers sell about as much tin as will
pay for their tucker. New England (N.S.W.)
is agitating for something better than tucker,
and some of the big mining and sluicing cos.
would also like an advance from the State.
The Herberton people, however, ask only for
an advance of £4O per ton of concentrates,
and :is the figure seems moderate, the State
may be induced to risk it.
From “Oof Bird”: Edna May (W.A.)
has had enough of incompetent and trouble-
some bailing tanks, and is going in for a 7in.
or Sin. Cornish lift. This should fill the bill
and enable the bottom level crosscut to be
extended without any further hindrance.
The new air compressor, or rather the
second-hand one which the co. befriended,
after years of rust and idleness, is working
as well as can be expected. At present it
is providing power for one drill, but hopes
are entertained that it will be well enough to
keep one or two more going when the bottom
workings are unwatered and crosscutting is
resumed. From all accounts the 150 ft.
level is opening up well, arid already thou-
sands of tons of 50dwt. ore have Ir en
exposed south of the main crosscut. This
makes up for the 12dwt. stuff north of the
crosscut, and the lower-grade material in
the smaller parallel veins. At the Edna
May Central a fairly good plant lias been
installed, but neither the official estimates
of ore reserves nor values are likely to come
up to expectations. Some wily share-
dealers, however, reckon the show stands a
good chance of getting the Edna May shoot
at depth, and are giving their bosom pals
the tip to watch and, if their theory proves
correct, prey.
* * * *
Efforts are being made to make gold mining
more attractive in the West by a reduction
in the charge for crushing at the State mills.
This, it is hoped, will induce many old
battlers who knocked off work to have
{mother go. It is also expected to re.irve
any distress that may arise on the fields
on account of the war by giving men who
have nothing else' to do a chance to bog in
and earn a bit of money. The reductions
will range from 10 p.c. on 9dwt. o T, e to 40
p.c. on ore under (idwt. These cut rates
will result in considerable loss to the Mines
Department, but it reckons that money
spent in this way will do more good than if
applied to the direct sustenance of men who
can’t get employment.
* * * *
Black Bauge West (W.A.) has applied
for six months’ exemption. Its reconstruc-
tion scheme was going fairly well when the
war came along and upset its applecart.
Now, as the co. is temporarily unable to
find a sound financial footing, it has come
to the conclusion that the best thing to do
is to shut down and lie low. Meanwhile the
time for applications for shares in the re-
organised concern has been extended.
* * * *
From Meekatharra (W.A.) : Commodore’s
new development is likely to prove important.
The find is 500 ft. north of the main workings
at the 160 ft. level, and so far the ore is of
good value and very wide in places. The pri-
vately-owned adjoining lease, the Ingliston,
alias Commodore South, has a new shoot of
ore from which 127 tons have just been
treated for an average of fS 18s. per ton.
An Eastern crowd had an eye on this show
some time ago, but negotiations came to
nothing.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ă
To H.M.
King
George V
CHAMPAGNE
ą
€
*<LSM3
5^3
PEL LISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
MADAME JEANNE BROLA TN ARDUOUS
OPERATIC ROUES.
'HIE BEAUTIFUL-VOICED SOPRANO WRITES A\
EXPERT MEDICAL OPINION
It has been the surprise and delight of music-lovers
and theatre-goers to witness the lavish display of
vocal ability and operatic talent so unquestionably
possessed by Madame Jeanne Brola, the distinguished
soprano of the recent Quinlan Opera Company
Many of her singing roles were prominently opposed
to each other, yet she was as much at home in
Madame Butterfly” as in “La Boheme,” and as
much so in “The Girl of the Golden West” as fn
A, dV,M Sr 1 t 0 her
Madame Brola during the 1913 season deservedly
became intensely popular with Australin music-
lovers, but she freely admitted that so grea™ and
exhausting had been her duties that she would un
doubtedly have suffered FROM A GREAT mfvtat'
AND PHYSICAL BREAKDOWN wete it not K
fact that she took Clements Tonic, the ideal medi-
cine for the artiste and professional. Her tribute to
this splendid strength-giving and health-preserving
medicine has been often published for +L
good, and should be read by all
commercial'persons who at times suffer from bra ”n
ph . y ? lcal fat] ff l] e or nerve weakness'
Ladies of society who suffer from nervousness'
caused by exacting social duties and n ~ ss ’
from brain-fag or insomnia in consequence should
use this medicine because it induces restful cu *l.
mg and invigorating sleep. lnauces restful,, sooth-
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SFT T miMi'VTa
TONIC EVERYWHERE. CLEMENTS
COGNAC
OTA R D
Otard-Dupuy & Co. BRANDY
;
Etablis depuis 1795, dans te chateau de Cognac
oil est ne le roi FRANCOIS Fl de France.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, September 14, 1914.
My Dear Akini, —
The city has been extra dusty, with the
grind of marching feet of late. An inter-
minable line of khaki tramped into camp the
other afternoon, amidst the cheerful whoops
of the crowds on the kerbstone. As no one
is allowed to know, or surmise, when this
lighting stuff is going to move off the prem-
ises. I suppose it is wrapped in a pall of
mystery. This is the favorite military gar-
ment of the moment, and it is cut on the
cross.
Amongst the first list of casualties comes
the well-known N.S.W. name of Pockley.
iJr. Brian I ockley, the fine, upstanding
,n 3n who was in the black-edged list
ot killed in the Australian force now pound-
ing the enemy’s posessions in New Britain
was a son of Dr. Antill Pockley, and a rela-
tive of the Picton Antill family. Brian
J ockley was a graduate of Sydney Univer-
sity. Also he was a great favorite both in
sport and stethoscope circles. As captain
ot the Army Medical Corps, his death was
one of the unexpected happenings of Aus-
tralia s dash for the enemy’s adjacent bit of
territory.
Penny Post Henniker Heaton, who died
in Geneva a few days ago. looked good for
another 20 summers when he was touring
this way in 1913. The Heaton title, which
took the form of that doubtful blessing, or
blight, in perpetuity, a baronetcy, was, of
course, given for services rendered in the
ilouse of Commons to the democratic cause
ot cheap postage. This is worth recalling
because so many titles appear to be shaken
out of a lucky bag and given for services
not rendered. The penny-stamp enthusiast
married the well-dowered daughter of the
late Samuel Bennett, who founded the Even-
ing IVews. Concerning the Order of
baronets (an ingenious scheme for raising
the wind created by that shiftv monarch
?•)« an English K.C. once asked:
\\hat is a baronet?” Sir Wilfred Lawson
(who ought to know) replied: “He is a
man who has ceased to be a gentleman, and
has not become a nobleman.” The acid is
chiefly rubbed into baronet Lawson, a once-
noisy advocate of cold water, in this freezing
comment. 6
Melba’s Patriotic concert in the Town
™ September 26 will have the backing
of the Phil orchestra to help with glad
noises. Tickets at a guinea (the coin that
T mo l dern mint > or half that sum,
Slj^ ush a cheque of size into the Patriotic
und. Details of other items in the pro-
mi 1 i m i\? e nf re - not •5 ret rou Sh-hewed into shape,
“Ornim e » a «r lS t 0 warble ditties from
fln i °’ a Lucia ( Wlth Cemmone on the
Hnte) and a vocal gem or two from “Louise ”
nos n er erm r£ the f? seinatin S' opera, the com-
poser Charpentier, considers Edvina a
Canadian songbird, recently singing at
Covent Garden, the ideal Louise. The lady
S o ifn 'u i ,n ' M i lS - ( ' ecil Edwardes when
she is off the boards, might, for a handsome
consideration, allow herself to be borrowed
rn? ran ustr alian opera season.
centfv P a ack M t Navi g a «on Co. has re-
T fj y p Ranged its Sydney management.
1 i ‘ j btu art, the popular little Hollander
gave uThS this end °f the business,
rt ave up his billet here to return to Amster-
in^he^V 411 ! United T St ates. He went off
:'\,. tbe Ventura. In spite of his name
which suggests a Jacobite rising, manager
Stuart was a full-blown Dutchman of the
Vmif yP j that wou,d see the dykes of the
1he th e& d of C ’w a ?n th CJ e . I countr y flooded, and
he ghost of W. the Silent drowned in its
shroud rather than let the enemy pervade
5? ountr y and go away in triumph with
the canals of Amsterdam under his arm
indSiSf ( l entnra was . a Polyglot company,
including two ex-Austrian officials here (ex-
Consui-Genera 1 Ivilliani and family), pianist
Boyd Wells _( rushing back to the Stages on
Pnn? te n l u ‘ sl . aoss * • pianist Harold Bauer
(ac ful liffm ’ . Preddie , Shipman and his
Affimr ru tle Wlfe \ and the large-browed
!S n ;- and , hia Pa- Conversation
iGht to be brisk when wireless news items
float into the smoke-room.
_Mr. P. Cordia. a subject of Queen Wilbel
Ssi&ssss
me, in large fluffy rosettes, wherein neroti
rorrom.s floral trophies. With SJafd to
artificial vegetation, Sydney is tnSg on?
blooms that almost rival the most famous
r reneh . flower factories. In a few years
Australian flower-makers—who only lack
the finish of the patient’ foreigner just now
in their work—will he able to satisfy the
most sniffy critics on the subject of silk and
muslin floriculture.
Dean Albert Edward Talbot, who married
his best girl, the Titian-haired Adrienne
\ ert, a week or so ago, packs up his gaiters
forthwith. As chief Anglican shepherd of
Australian Atkins, parson Albert Edward
rushes off to join the Expedition in Mel-
bourne.
The huge carnival organised by the re-
doubtable Snowy Baker, of Stadium note,
pushed about £lBOO into the local Patriotic
r und.
A rush of band instruments to the heads
ot the second and third battalions of infantry
occurred last week, when the Strickland
ladyship handed over the goods at Kensing-
ton camp. French Consul Chayet passed
up the consignment of French instruments
on behalf of his compatriots in this town, to
the sub-regal lady, who in turn gave them to
the owners. Mrs. Rutter and Mrs. Alfred
Tee, who hold the fort as outposts of the
veterans Home, having successfully rounded
np a commiltee of Sydney dames to con-
tribute cash for the same purpose, handed
over their instruments on behalf of same,
ihe Governor called for cheers for Our
friends in Europe (even Servia got a mild
whoop), and the gathering broke up in good
order.
the British Empire League (feminine),
which was founded as a kind of challenge to
“ e “ ale , Empire League (Mr. Spruce
; uyth used to be in command of this force)
intends to assist the Cause with a fully-
equipped ambulance or two. Having hinted
that nothing short of Oblivion will alter 'ts
resolve to collect cash for this object, the
‘‘■p E. has already begun a series of sub-
ui ban depredations for ambulance purposes.
Still another outbreak of Death or Glorv
from our sex. This time it’s a more or less
legal brand of female volunteers who are
sworn to do or die (if need be) in the cause
or home and the perambulator. Various
pi ess reports of the corps are
agreed that blue and purple are to
be mingled (it s a horrible blend of
color) in the. uniform of the A.L.V.
tiee translation, Australian Leg View.
Girls with handsome understandings will
apply for front ranks on the march. Any
girl under 33 will be considered eligible.
Ao girl must use her rifle on a neighbor’s
goats or cats unless they are formally de-
clared contraband of war. Any neighbor
who objects to a Lauy Volunteer practising
with firearms in her own backyard, is liable
to be called “a brute!” Drill is to be a
serious business. Any girl who is caught
looting her comrades’ hairpins is liable to
have her ears, boxed. The female fighling
squad is still in embryo, but it hopes to be
in the soup later on.
Ihe horticultural Miss Brace, who a while
ago booked her bunk in the Otway for Sep-
tember -b, holds fast to her intention of
going back to her native sod (England) for
a tew months. . She will continue to poke
round her favorite hobby in that rainy isle
and may accept a short engagement to over-
look a Devon School of Gardening This
academy, which has a large leafy acreage
to till, teaches young women the way they
should go with a garden roller. In the
absence of E. M. Brace, her billet as hon
organising sec. of the local Women’s Ilorti-
nam™"iS" 11 hiln ' M ° v “ “ '‘to
A fierce controversy as to whether plain
citizens can go on spending exactly as much
as they did m the piping times of peace, on
diess and minor luxuries, is now rajring in
fhe press. From the assured standpoint of
a Cabinet Minister’s wife, the thing is quite
easy. Go on in the same way, and still
give out of your handsome income—to the
crop of patriotic and Red Cross charities
that hammer at your door. Unfortunately
all plain citizens cannot aspire to the salary
ot a successful politician. Even a small
shrinkage in a small income, when the neces-
sary calls on the total are more than they
were.a month or two ago, calls for a careful
revision of personal expenses. The plain
citizen, who may be a cabinet-maker or a
city clerk, has nothing to hoard just now.
Why implore him not to fill his coffers with
the spare gold he hasn’t got, while he denies
himself a new hat.
The Fat. Man can liug the good advice
g t l J en T7 J \ Mmister for Justice Hall and Mrs
Ada Holman. Let him spend freely and
avoid a chill in bank vaults. Timid folks
who rushed the Savings Banks to hide their
cash under a flower-pot can also pluck up
courage and go on spending in the same
thrifty fashion as of yore. But the average
breadwinner can’t make three-quarters of a
yard, of cash cover a yard of ordinary ex-
penditure plus War Chest, Red Socks—l
mean. Led Cross—bales, food funds, and
clothing for the destitute in brave little Bel-
gium. Even the State finds it difficult to
go on borrowing in the same open-hearted
fashion as it did yester-year. So I guess
the small fry will just have to go slow
lhe Austral String Quartet winds up its
present season on September 19. Pianist
Pd ward Goll, recently from Melbourne, has
been secured for the occasion, (1011, formerly
of the once-pleasant land of Bohemia, is a
compatriot of Kubelik. Bohemia grows musi-
cians by the cwt. It. is a place with a past.
Once it was something approaching an em-
pire and possessed a seacoast alluded to by
Shakspeare. Then it became part of Aus-
tria. It got angry with Austria and started
an insurrection. The Bohemian way of
throwing off allegiance was to cast the repre-
sentatives of the hated ruler out of a top
window, and this soil of thing created so
much annoyance that Bohemia hasn’t
amounted to very much since.
1 lie Girls’ Wild Blower Show committee is
counting up a small but blue deficit. This dire
result of six months’ strenuous preparation
to gather exhibits from every State in Aus-
tralia, may be confidently labelled “Made in
Germany.” A war is too big a side-show
for mere vegetation to bump against, any-
how. Even the waratahs sulked in their
little green cells and kept in hiding later
than usual this year, so the next best splash
of color the Exhibition could scrape together
was supplied by the giant native lilies from
I Stephens. Mrs. White —the Cullen
lady s mother gave most of these gorgeous
blooms. Some of the most remarkable sur-
vivals of the lately-deceased show came from
Westralia. These were the wild flowers
which had travelled with their stalks stuck
in tame, uncooked potatoes. From these
the greedy blooms sucked long drinks that
landed them fit and fresh in Sydney Town.
_As th e methods of art instruction at the
lech. College are sometimes regarded with
the glazed eye of disapproval, it is worth
noting that a charming sample of Muriel
Easts drawing recently took first place.
11ns youthful pupil of the Tech. College
was a prize-winner at the Girls’ Flower
Show, where the competition was keen.
Several other demoiselles from the same
dusty address also put up a good record at
the defunct exhibition.
The farewell concert to the promising
youngster, Madeline Collins, is not budging
from its original date, September 22. The
same old Town Barn is the place.
The Royal Colonial Institute (Eondon)
has sent forth its secretary, Mr. J. 11. Boose
to travel through Australasia. It sent him
before Europe went off bang, so he lias been
through several States already, gathering
up crumbs of information about Us. The
dapper Eondon visitor is supposed to talk
Imperial kinship and so forth, but it falls
flat while Australia is busy doing things
of more consequence than flag-flapping. The
oclney limb pf the R.C.I. gave a luncheon
lo the wandering Boose last week. Governor
Strickland took the chair at this gathering.
’? guest of honor goes off to Queensland,
and later to Maoriland.
On Saturday, September 19, the Imperial
Salon—where the fleet of foot hop round
i j, mt ot Romaine’s orchestra—will be
handed over to lady pirates. These buc-
i a / e a . ft , er , for the Alexandra
Hospital for sick kiddies. A fair unknown
(who may be a brunette), heavily dis-
guised in a mask, is going f > sing through
a hole in her incognita face drapery. Grace
I alotta, Eawrence Phillip, juvenile pro-
digies, and other distractions will while
away the afternoon. Hon. secs. Mrs E II
Bmney and Mr. Ross Simpson wilf.be
oititled in l heir efforts by hon. treasurer
John Lane Mullins.
The Sydney Symphony orchestra gave its
last concert for this year in the Town Hall
the other afternoon. Conductor BradLv
took his usual amount of phvsical culture
for about two hours, and flung his hands
f “e four quarters of Heaven in steering
his fiddlers through the tricky Tscliaikowsky
’• ymphony. This massive tome of harmony
m E Minor resounds with the barbaric up-
roar of drum and cymbal so prevahnt in the
Kussian composer’s musii. There are dulcet
moments of graceful melody, when the
crash of instruments does not shake the
rafters. On the whole, it is like battle prac-
fice . and is too noisy to please the m-e
public Liszt’s Concerto for piano and
oichesti a wa~ the most popular event of
the concert. Edward Goll. at the keyboard
pranced delightfully up and down the notes
and looked as if he would go off into a faint
feu sheer joy in the honey-sweet interludes.
Golls hands dash wildly into the air, and
his hyacinthme locks have a look of the
pudding-basin domestic clip, but he is a
pleasing performer in spite of his antics.
The Naval depot at Rushcutter’s Bay is
suffering from a slighted feeling in the mat-
ter of socks. It sheds an accumulated tear
and remarks that its underclothing depart-
ment has been entirely overlooked in the
ldaze of spotlight that follows the Man in
lvhaki. _ home of the worthy women who
are tearing round this town, with large Red
Cioss labels (rather smaller than the Ger-
man map) might switch some of their sur-
plus energy on to the local bluejackets.
Word drops in that one John Braga, who
has been piling up Australian experience at
Clear Hills, has packed his swag to join the
3rd infantry battalion for the front. He
lias seen active service before to-day, and
can chatter with the enemy in any language
it prefers out of a choice of German,
C hinese and Hindostani. Soldier Braga
will keep his best French for the Allied ear.
• I s , a relative of 0. Seddon, the present
British Administrator of Baroda, an Indian
State which has offered its entire fighting
force to Britain. Also, he is a man of
nniny inches, and plays a most respectable
bridge game.
An International Rubber Congress 13
going to tell all it knows about that useful
vegetation during October. The delegates
meet at Batavia on the 19th of next month,
and mark the event with an exhibition,
from India, Burma, the Dutch East Indies
and 1 apua (war permitting) exhibits will
pour into the show. The spectator can put
two and two together and find out whether
lubber tyres are likely to be up or down,
or whether they will simply go bang in the
same old way. A Melbourne man named
Bloomfield is likely to represent the Papuan
planters.
Out of the din of patriotic outbreaks
last week, two of the best shows were Mrs.
Ilaftenden Smith’s rallv in the Town Hall.
David Jones’s dramatic company’s
efforts for the Belgian Fun'’.
ihe D.J. company kept things moving for
two nights in the Itopertory Theatre, where
you can fall up cr downstairs —if you want
to—because the stairs are many and moder-
ately steep. 1 lie ladies in the co. each even-
ing were handed stacks of flowers with the
compliments of the polite Belgian Consul.
The play, “My Soldier Boy,” is a
lively farce, written by Alfred Maltby and
frank bindo, r a sure knowledge of
stage-craft. This amateur company was
much above the average at Saturday night’s
performance. The handsome girl, Ida Slate,
who took the part of the leading lady, Lydia
Mendle. is entitled to quite three cheers.
Ihe same goods may be passed on to Ernest
Goodwin, for his heroic effort to sabre the
atmosphere as Monty Mendle, a prevaricat-
ing young lawyer in a borrowed Hussar uni-
form. Daisy Shoesmith beefed out the broad
tarce of Martha’s slavey-of-all-work lines to
loud applause. James Teddiman wrestled vali-
antly with the brogue of Michael O’Doherty
and kissed Martha as often as his other duties
permitted. The rest of the company did no
damage to the plot. The Sydney Amateur
Orchestra (mostly Girl), in charge of
f rancis . Knowles, whacked out popular
tunes with enormous enthusiasm. With a
little more practice it ought to smooth a
tew lumps out of an otherwise fairly even
performance.
That persistent stimulus to extravagance,
the auctioned chocolate box which sells and*
re-sells at its weight in silver, is a serious
to the Union Jack at local shows for
the Cause. Of course, the flag vendor has
an unchallenged right to prevaricate, which
is denied to the man who wants £3 for a box
of sweets. Even a patriotic Ananias hasn’t
the face to say that a very new box of choco-
lates took a prominent part in the relief of
ivunberiey or waved over the gallant plume
ot General John French near the River
Marne. The man who sold a bit of
bunting for £2 2s. at amateur theatricals
the other night told quite an attractive fairy
yarn to a cheering audience.
While India is hurling its rupees and
troops at Britannia’s helmet. Phil Newburv
meditates a peaceful invasion of that colored
coral strand. He expects to sail for the
land of tigers and temples in October, with
a concert co. from Australia.
Florence Young and Reg Roberts are
going on tour with “The Climax.” They’ll
make the country welkin ring with the
joyous uproar of their musical team in this
melodious trifle.
The stage youngsters’ show for the khaki
cause is happening in the Palace Theatre
on September 17.
.The. mere Husband is beginning to raise
Ins voice in protest at the plethora of shirts
that his good lady is making for total
strangers. A Husbands’ Mutual Protection
►society has been suggested, which will insist
n ? the peaceful domestic animal getting some
, : lus. lingerie attended to in the intervals of
his missus’s devotion to khaki heroes.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
In less than four weeks of fighting the
Austrians have lost over 130.000 men cap-
tured, in addition to thousands and thou-
sands killed. That the Russian is a better
fighter than the Austrian Teuton or the
Hungarian is generally understood, but this
vast number of prisoners begins to look fishy.
In fact, it looks as though the Slav regi-
ments in the Austrian army are surrendering
wholesale to their Russian kinsfolk, and are
probably being sent north and west to belt
beer and sauerkraut out of the Germans who
are hurrying to the rescue of the tottering
Hapsburg Empire. If that is not the ex-
planation, then the Austrian generalship
and soldiery must be the dead finish and
limit m the way of incapacity.


“ CHUNDER TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
*****
m
\
V
\N
X
->n
'tew
~X>. . ,y,. s y - :xJf . v
-i | 47 f
%
\
\
i'T'i *
'X' , _
IfeV
■■,■■■'
p
flii
m
ys>
&&
wmm.
y%
4
SfeS
«-
m
,
WmS
4'-lf,
K;s>
XT",
\ \ W&\. ) --/-I
-VW/.;
s'
rSw^ l^"' T "-v
is
S3^
. t *-. ifer-v fe ■/;, 1/3
SggJS
ft
f ; / S't \&*
- {
m
. ■ f .-• } TSrl-I
'Vy' ,|
Sf®
\efrMeME&W&.
->- >t 4/
??'!*&>''<o
UV
SM:
/'l?'
l
JS# / -*£-#%jpSc>
SEP^
£-f,W- r 4t /• .
£/,W'% S.>y. ■«•'#
•• y .jt' ‘ft'
/ *2ELjM r ■' A -Atts AU
r iWTTm:--' S.ar,--J-/t%M,
r Vs
=y?s
s§
'' X*?rs
"%>
J ,, , I jS e ( n
yvd
■ 4 i '*W’ y
A
<*Tsr
r
5&
wM*
■ vy-: ,-i:\ V
sfe.Cs
>=9
‘
sstisfii
SB
1/ - x
\ w 5
: vi
Pf/7
•r'v.A-.. ../£?i
>*<
f'yjsr St
.y
r#-t
S9f»
4 .
/#/■ h
!/V J
wi
>iS
JS"
/
y
/"/ ;
%
/ V i/ 7
• * y
/
5%
./
/ P i
/ s/f/h
/. y / f f
m
y
s®
G
Cobrft,” Boot PolisH
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Leads his chargin
Lancers through
Broken lines of
Foes, who seemed
Victors till his
Lance-points gleamed.
See them melt
In headlong flight
As the “COBRA”
Spear-points bright
Sweep the battle-
Field anew,
Till it’s like
A well-cleaned shoe


TABLE TOAST MAKERS
The Table Toast Maker illustrated is one of the latest novelties. This smart little
invention wonderfully simplifies the preparation of breakfast or tea. Delightfully crisp
loast can be made in a few minutes while the meal is proceeding.
Each Table Toast Maker is provided with
an Aluminium Hot Plate, which is also
useful for keeping- dishes hot as required.
As a practical yet handsome gift the Table
Toast Maker is difficult to surpass.
Silver-plated or Nickel Silver.
Price, 35/- each.
Farmer’s Pay Carriage.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
PITT, MARKET &
GEORGE STREETS
cr.
Vfi
m
r m
I
IS
DUNLOP
GARDEN
HOSE..
Lasts
for Years
DOES NOT
KINK or BURST
All Leading Stores
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
g ALL STATES & N Z
ǻ
USE
DUNLOP
MOTOR TYRES
It pays—their strength and quality
ensures a big mileage, and every
satisfaction.
DUNLOP
Obtainable all Garages, but
see you get “DUN LOPS."
IBBER CO.. AH Slates and N.Z.
DUNLOP
TYRES
OUTWEAR
ALL OTHERS
Unequalled for
QUALITY
and PRICE.
BEWARE OF
IMITATIONS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO . Ml Sialtt A Hi.
■s
V
DUNLOP
RUBBER
HEELS.
...F0R....
COMFORT
and WEAR
All Boot Shops.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
I All States and N.Z.
’
DUNLOP
ITYRES
* /
flare easily the...
STRONGEST and
BEST WEARING
y.
in Australasia.
/STOCKED IN STUDDED,
/“HEAVY” STUDDED,
GROOVED & RIBBED Patterns
Obtainable all Agent*.
IJUNLOP RUBBER Cq
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 14, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
When I begin to write about Melba’s
Patriotic Concert at the Auditorium I am
conscious of the inadequacy of the English
language. Words fail me. Diction falls
to the earth. Eloquence is carried out
dead. Remembering these things you will
understand, if my normally ready pen grows
a bit incoherent.
The advance guard of the audience got
mixed up in a melee with boy scouts and
14 battalions of professional Sassiety Pro-
gramme Sellers. The latter were utterly
routed. In fact it was a debacle. How-
ever, the S.P.S. re-formed ultimately and
charged the enemy, and sold heavily to them
once they had been safely manoeuvred into
their seats. Then came an army corps of
guinea ticket-holders. Some of its members
had paid £2O for one ticket. They lacked
the clan of the hoi jiolloi, and were easily
reduced. Boy scouts held all the passes—
I mean corridors —and did sentry work
outside. Punctually to time arrived the
Governor-General, with his party, and Gov-
ernor Stanley with his party. They were
met with an astounding blare of “God Save”
and “Rule Britannia.” made up of orchestra
and chorus, with Melba, resplendent in
dame color, taking the lead with all the
strength of her wonderful voice. Maggie
Stirling loomed up behind Melba in lead-
color, like a great warship, and thundered a
contralto backing. Overcome with emotion
I burst into tears, and sang the first eleven
bars of the Soldiers’ Chorus from “Faust.”
However, no one noticed in the prevailing
enthusiasm. Everyone waved flags, so that
the hall looked like a vast, windy yard on a
washing-day, when none but colored garments
had been dealt with. I have never seen this
sort of washing-day, personally, but my vivid
imagination supplies the parallel. The
chorus at the back of the orchestra and
organ was so huge that the topmost musical
heads made black dots right up against the
white ceiling. The third tier of the crowded
gallery presented the same decorative effect.
I was shocked to see one of Sassiety’s
most brilliant young men in a five-bob seat —
his monocle making a highlight that pre-
vented anyone from missing the stunning
fact that he was not among the guinea-pigs.
The Government House party carried flags
which had been presented to them by Melba.
Whenever she fixed her eye on them they
waved like fury. I grieve to have to men-
tion that the G.-G. was inclined to wave out
of his turn. Lady Helen, however, waved
with admirable precision. She wore a regal
cloak of red and gold brocade, with a large
red velvet collar-cape. Another accu-
rate waver was Lady Stanley, whose
cloak was a wonderful blue and gold
arrangement, with a huge Collar of
grey fox fur. Little Lady Doris Blackwood,
who always dimples along in a sparkling
way, was clothed in a pink silk, frilly cloak.
It was a great evening for cloaks. Mrs.
Leinpriere was amongst the vice-regalities,
and anchored or moored to her was a small,
pale-haired child, about whom I know
nothing whatever, but who is thrown in on
general principles, and as an evidence of
good faith, as it were.
Edward Solomon (he who won fame, re-
gardless of cost, at the patriotic matinee, bv
his gallant financial stand against the
Ferrrrguson bawbees) was in a seat behind
his old foe. Heaven alone knows what the
dauntless Irish patriot had paid for it. The
Bowes Kellys were there with their pretty
daughters, so were Mrs. Miller and her niece,
Miss White and grandmamma White, and the
I’ursey Chirnsides and a Fenner sister, and
1 don’t know how many others. I was in
tie very act of writing a few thousand
names down in my tablets for your benefit
when I swooned again, with sheer exeite-
•ment, and temporarily lost the hang of
things. Resuscitated by a posse of Boy
Scouts, I observed the Gaud Mayor and his
wife in the dress-circle. It was a gracious
spectacle and did me a lot of good. Then
came the taking of a flashlight photograph of
the brilliant gathering.
What a night! Melba sang repeatedly
and the house went quite mad after her
rendering of Depuis le Jour, from “Louise.”
“Louise” is an opera which is woven all
through with a music manifestation of the
fascination of Paris. Melba seemed to be
inspired with the memory of the city that
she knows so well.
Ellen Terry, in lavender and lovely old
lace, was in splendid voice. She did not
trust to her memory, but read Kipling’s “Big
Steamers.” and reduced every sentimentalist
present to tears. She wound up by reducing
herself to tears.
What with cheers, tears, patriotic music
supplied by Zelman and his orchestra, Melba,
Maggie Stirling, Ellen Terry, and the expen-
sive clothes that’were on exhibit, the crowd
got more than its money’s worth. And to
understand what that means you have only
to look at the sum that was raked in.
Airs. Burnham, who, as I have told you
r>u or more times before, was originally
Maggie Niall, is living at Aldershot with
Mrs. Hall, who, as I have mentioned
on at least 78 previous occasions, was
Holly Clegg. Their husbands are both
in the Queen's Bays (no, not Boys),
or if it isn't that it is the Fusiliers
or the Marines or the 17tli Fast
Middlesex Light Infantry or something else
equally exclusive. I now propose to give
these two young women a rest. They have
absolutely been bathing in the limelight of
late.
Little is heard but the dull crash of shat-
tered social functions. The Australian Club
Ball is the latest to fall in ruins. What
Cup week will be like without it I shudder
to think—more after the style of Hamlet
without the corpses than an ordinary race-
meeting at headquarters.
The Very Best have decided against house-
boats ( i.c ., coal barges decorated with flags
and flowers) this Henley. The alleged
reason is money-tightness, due to the war
and the exigencies of the subscription list
habit. Perhaps, again, they may be peer-
ing into the future and seeing visions of
themselves in mourning for slain relatives
when Henley day comes round.
Some of our departing braves have actu-
ally taken to advertising their pet wishes.
One wants a ’possum; another a bulldog.
I am not up in the ways of ’possums at the
Fx*ont, but on the question of bulldogs I am
something of an expert. You can always
tell a bulldog by the fact that it hides
under the house if it hears a shot. (Deaf
bulldogs are not considered, owing to their
rarity.) It is this miserable characteristic
that forced me to dispense with my bull-
dogs. They interfered with my usual after-
noon’s revolver practice. Bloodhounds are
more satisfactory pets for martial purposes.
At the first hint of warfare of any sort they
issue forth and pin someone by the throat.
The only disadvantage is their lack of dis-
crimination. They pin Britons and Germans
with equal zest. Still, all told, they are
superior to bulldogs. How about a sub-
scription list to buy the forces a few pet
bloodhounds?
Mrs. Blomfield, an Anglo-Indian who is
married to the Flag-Lieutenant of the Mel-
bourne, is inhabiting a Melbourne mansion
nat. She is the image of Gertrude Glyn,
who plays Lady Bobby in “Gipsy Love.”
The result is that every time the care-free
Lady Bobby sups gaily, or otherwise, at a
restaurant, the social wowser comments on
the cynical heartlessness of Mrs. Blomfield.
She gets the blame for fun she never had.
which is a most infuriating experience, I
always think. When I said the sailor’s wife
was the image of Miss Glyn, I spoke in the
hyperbolical language of the gossip-monger.
As an example of the lengths to which these
wretches will go, 1 myself have constantly
been mistaken for Bunty.
The Glaciariuni gave a Pageant for the
Cause last week. Sassiet.v has had so much
fancy dress of late that bizarre clothes re-
present everyday dress to most of the girls,
f This might account for the weird rigs they
often wear abroad —but that is another
story. Anyhow they take to a pageant
like a duck to water or a chorus girl to fizz.)
The Maddens, who have always been the"
main social stay of the ice house, are reduced
to one family-full of girls. That is to say
the Frank Madden’s daughters. How-
ever _ the chilly resort still" battles along.
Xassiety haughtily chose its own place in the
pageant. At least it tried to. What was its
exasperation and horror to find that a cheeky
little Belgian girl with pigtails and a turned-
up nose had butted into the most sacred pre-
cincts, dragging with her a Dutch boy-
partner. Despite glares, sniffs and even
muttered curses the two stayed on with the
irritating persistency of a'fly on a bull-
dog’s nose, and the event nearly caused civil
war. As to their being social nonentities, I
am only going, please understand, on hear-
say. I am fully prepared to learn that thev
are. in reality, members of our oldest
noblesse. I have been deceived so cruelly
in these matters in the past that my faith
is utterly shaken. The McGillicuddy pair
(or at lehst it looked like them) were well
to the front, and Mrs. Billy Simon Frazer
showed off her marvellous skating again. The
patriotic feeling was in blazing evidence.
Britannia and all her white handmaidens
preceded queens of all the Allies. Horribly
realistic ambulance workers made a “set” with
a wounded soldier or two hauled along in the
rear. Some parts of the parade took on the
look of the Waxworks Show just after some
sensational murder case. Bunting, which is
being hired out at heavy rates by the even-
ing all round this city, decorated the walls
and dripped from the roof.
There was a drenched meeting at Moonee
Valley for the Hunt Club races, but we
sporting characters recked little of the wet.
We just dived into our goloshes and waded
right along. Melba’s macintosh was there
at an early hour. It was—well, it was a
macintosh. It is impossible for even the
most frantic impressionist lo write more.
I counted dozens of Mitchell and Lempriere
gamps near the stand, and likewise several
brewery McCracken aqua-scutums. Melba’s
sun, George Armstrong, rode the favorite (to
wit Grandpapa Mitchell’s Ivia Ora) in the
big steeplechase, but the tiresome beast
fell. This horseman rides with a long stir-
rup, and the gallery yelled “Legs" with
great enthusiasm as he walked back in a
muddied condition. llow the galleryites do
love to see people flung off things! Francis
Syme’s young son won on My Angle—a 15
to one chance. This horse was also from the
Mitchell stable.
From my Adelaide correspondent :■ —-
the Show, Mawson and the steady tramp ot‘ men
leaving for the wars have been the features of the
week. The Show was a success, all things considered.
The stock was a shade less numerous, anil the trade
in motors slightly less brisk; also, the shops had
fewer opportunities of disposing of last season’s
relics and this season’s horrors, but otherwise things
were much the same as usual. The S.P.C.A. had a
pocket-edition pony on rhe grounds collecting funds
for the Society, and reaped a small harvest in pence
on the morning which was specially set aside for
attendance from the schools. Most of the squatto-
craey came down for the occasion, and the hotels and
hoarding-houses, not to mention the bars, gave three
hearty cheers, if not more, in honor of the event.
The Poole-Longbottom wedding is to be at the
end of this month, at St. Matthew’s Church, Kensing-
ton. He is a youthful medico, the son of Canon
Poole of this village, and she is the daughter of
IV. E. Longbottom, of North Adelaide. The ’groom
has just bought Dr. Curtis’s Penola practice.
Lady Galway left for Melbourne on Tuesday on Red
Cross business. Government House is rapidly taking
on the semblance of an old-clo’ shop, and she has
to see what she can do about it.
Dr. Harry Nott is engaged to Miss Marjorie Lowe,
once of Westralia, and now of this city.
The C. H. Angases, who have been in town for the
winter, arc returning to Lindsay Park this week.
Glenelg had its Patriotic Concert on Monday.
Patriotic concerts are like Death —they come to each
town soon or late these times. Miss Doris Coles
organised the show.
Mrs. William Milne died at North Adelaide on
Tuesday. She possessed a number of line paintings,
and a few months ago she gave some and loaned
others to the Art Gallery.
St. Peter’s and Prince Alfred’s Colleges combined
to say good-bye, in the Town Hall on Thursday night,
to their old scholars who are going to the war.
The Governor and representative men from both
colleges were guests, as well as the soldiers, and
lookers-on in the shape of present schoolboys in
the organ galleries and ladies in the dress-circle.
There were speeches and—but you know the rest.
George Castles, brother of Amy aud
Dolly, has been having much success as a
singer hereabouts and in adjacent States.
He is the owner of a lyric tenor of great
sweetness and volume, and has likewise a
highly alluring platform appearance. His
case goes to show that voices run in fami-
lies, like flat feet and a passion for alcohol,'
as Sir Oliver Lodge, or one of the other
scientists who have just left us, remarked
in the course of a thoughtful disquisition on
heredity.
Mayoress Hennessy has taken steps to en-
sure a proper welcome for Dolores, who
arrives here on the 17th. On that day Mrs.
Doctor Barrett will give a reception for the
singer at her home, Heimath, in Toorak—
the place where there is an orderly Italian
garden in one quarter and an Australian
bush wilderness full of kangaroos, ’possums
and emus in another. Dolores is giving all
tile proceeds of her first concert on Satur-
day. 19th, lo (lie Belgian Belief Fund. She
is French (her mother’s name was Gilbert),
and has a country home in Touraine in the
middle of France, where she goes to rest at
intervals.
_ Two things are worrying the nicest of our
girls who mote out to Broadmeadows to see
their young otticali pals. One is the fact
that these gallant lads are furiously culti-
vating lip-herbage. The effect of their
initial struggles with more-or-less drought-
stricken crops of bristles is horrible. Also,
the dear boys’ hands are roughened with
hard work. . “They don’t seem like the same
hands,” wailed one manicured doll. It is
this sort of thing that brings home the full
horror of war to many of our young women.
The Repertory Theatre is offering 25 per
cent, of the net profits of its next season
to the Red Cross Fund. Every vice-regality
in the city is pledged to be present, to make
no mention of our head Mayor and his lady.
Arthur Adams is coming over from Sydney
to produce his play. “Mrs. Prettv and the
Premier.” It occurs on Saturdav'and Mon-
day. September 26 and 28. Bren E. Doyle
will be the Premier and Miss Allie Robson
Mrs. Pretty.
On Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Octo-
ber 1, 2 and the Repertories will put on
Galsworthy’s “.Toy,” which is a dissertation
on the love of a woman for a man, versus
the love of a mother for her child. Norman
Carter. Mrs. Maurice. Dudley, Miss Ivy
Wengel and Gregan McMahon are on the
list for this play.
The first Australian soldier to die in
Europe was squatter Richmond’s second son
Leslie. He was in the Gordon Highlanders,
and was a good-looking and charming boy.
The eldest Richmond, a stepbrother, married
a Staughton girl. This George Richmond
arrived in London to rejoin his regiment
only a few days after his brother’s death.
The Alliance Francaise and the French
Club of the Melb. University are organising
a concert in aid of the French and Belgian
Patriotic Funds. It will liapnen at the
Auditorium on the 30th. The first half of
the programme will be musical, and the
second part will be a series of Joan of Arc
scenes and tableaux, written and staged by
Rose Seaton. Beatrice Day’s name appears
among those of the artists who are throwing
in their services.
The sudden death of popular Mrs. McKay,
wife of the Toorak medico, came as a shock
to the social world. A few days before her
death the lady returned from a visit to
Sydney apparently in the pink of health.
Then came appendicitis, an operation, and
the end.
Sam McCulloch and his handsome spouse,
who was a U.S. widow, have forgotten the
Drought, the World, and even the Labor
victory and the Devil in rapturous contem-
plation of a son and heir. By his first
marriage Sam had two daughters, one of
whom is married to a Baron Sadoine.
A lot of younger. kiddies who have heard
about clowns and pantomimes, but have
never seen them on the stage, will get their
dream realised next Christmas. The “Cin-
dt-rella panto is to have a harlequinade
tacked on at the matinees. Lupino is to
clown, and if the harlequinade sets the nip-
pers and flappers in a roar and has remini-
scent attractions for the grown-ups it will
surely be turned on o' nights.
Melba’s great concert was nearly blown
out at the eleventh hour. Whilst her motor
was rushing the Sovereign of Song to the
patriotic shivoo the brake-band fired, and
the. flames played around the petrol tank,
which is situated just under the seat of the
car. The discovery of the conflagration came
just in time. Melba’s first thought when
the ear stopped was to get her little niece
out of the explosion, for her sister (Mrs.
Lempriere) and the kiddie were with her.
Herself escaped in a very highly-strung
state. Even when she arrived at the Audi-
torium she was too upset to give Dr. Barrett
a coherent account of the averted tragedy.
All things considered. Melba’s subsequent
singing of the "Lucia” number, to Lem-
mone s fluting, was a triumph of art over
nerves.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.
Splendid piece of news from England :
Already there has been much evidence of a dis-
position on the part of the wealthier classes to
behave with decenc}'.
This was an exclusive item to Sydney Tele-
graph from its London correspondent
(15/9/T4). Now what did the wealthier
classes behave with previously?


<4
*<Nrl* *,.
\ \
Uln
IS
'\s:: :
1
i :
wz
y t
■*.
yj-
m
m
i
%
m
<£■
fn»
*
Z# 1
>0
=feg
%
>"
s<2.
7,
S.t
r
w?
r*
?/,
V.
m
r
<r
s>.
Blue
r
cvo
f 1
Y* e
o^o
the
** ov^
ch« elfS
three
2S
60
0
o
Born 1820
-—Still going strong
Red
Every Drop over
10 Years Old
In Non-refillable Bottles,
To safeguard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of the past. First & foremost to see
that the margin of stocks over sales is always large enough to maintain our unique quality.
Bottled only by JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
And at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE


GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Ijook, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish liver
and howels.
Mother! Your child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy,” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natur-
ally, or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, re-
member, a gentle liver and bowel cleansing
should always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals “California Syrup of Figs”
for children’s ills; give a teaspoonful, and
in a few hours all the waste matter, sour bile
and fermenting food clogged in the bowels
pass out of the system, and you have a
healthy and playful child again. All ehil
dren love this harmless, delicious “fruit laxa-
tive,” and it never fails to effect a good
inside cleansing.” Directions for babies
oS th? bottle agCS a,,<l grown ' u P s <l™ plainly
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist fm-
a bottle of “California Syrup of Figs,” then
look and see that it is made by the “Cali
forma Fig Syrup Company.” Counterfeits
, ,e ! I ng S ° here. Refuse substitutes
rf FiZ 1 ••"lA/TTim' “ Ct,HfOTni “ Syrnp
or rigs, l/l$ anc i 1/9 per bottle>
Sydney,
J/th December. 1894.
I-lelidon Spa Water Co.
Dear Sir, —
The following is analysis of the sample of
your mineral water left with me:—
Organic Matter
Oxide of . Iron and Alumina
Chloride or Sodium
Carbonate pf Sodium
Oarhonate of Lithium
Carbonate of Calcium
Carbonate of Magnesium
Silica
Grains per c/al.
Traces
Traces
2.99
212.14
2.08
7.35
3.39
0.29
Total 225.84
Total solids on evaporation 233.01
The difference, 4.17, being carbonic acid driven
off on ignition.
This water contains mere lithia than any of
the European Spa Waters, except that from the
Murquelle, at Baden Baden, which contains lithia
as chloride, and it is also much richer in car-
bonate of sodium, though Birresborn, in Prussia
and Bilin, in Bohemia, approach it. "
This water would he used as an antacid and
diuretic, the latter effect being due to the lithia.
I remain, yours truly,
WILL A. DIXON, p.i.e., p.c.s.
." e now give an explanation of the
vntnes of some of the salts which the
water holds in solution:—
Bicarbonate of Lithia. —An alka-
tme which has solvent powers on Uric
Acul, forming with it a soluble salt, thus
destroying con’cretions. Purifies the
blood through the kidneys.
Carbonate of Sodium. —For gouty
and uric acid diathesis. Assists the
action of the biliary organs, checks food
fermentation.
Chloride of Sodium.—A gentle stimu-
lant to the liver and secretions. In-
Meases the action of the skin, promoting
perspiration.
„ m T " A° nclll , si ° n > we briefly submit that the con-
f'.li 0 " T Helidon Spa gives health and com-
use it- Indigestion is instantlv
lemoved, restlessness gives way to a calm feeling
of tranquillity, a refreshing sleep is often in-
!w d ’ti, eVer f h . thirst is allayed at once, and
mo- " the Y at , er - ,s taken with milk in the morn-
ing, a marked improvement in health will follow.
, be . remembered that no water hitherto
discovered is so retentive of carbonic acid gal,
which makes its persistent and sparkling efferves-
cence more agreeable to the palate, and To
moi e gi ateful to the stomach.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Coolibah” : “Marloo” in a recent Bulle-
tin discourses through the uppermost section of his
cabbage-tree about an imported pest which he styles
the “Queensland tick,” alleging that, though stock
in the Richmond River (N.S.W.) district are heavily
infested, no harm has resulted. Writer has a long
and highly unprofitable acquaintance with Ixodes
Boris, and has noted that this creeping plague of the
Straits Settlements and redwater always transpire
simultaneously. The microscopic organism or proto--
plasm responsible for the disease is carried within
the tick, and transmitted to the blood of the victim
on which 1.8. aforesaid happens to fasten, in the
same manner that the malarial mosquito does its
work. Introduced into the blood of other animals
such as the horse, marsupials, etc., the protoplasm
is a mere negative quantity, productive of no results
for good or evil; but in the blood of the bull and
his family, unless these have previously been ren-
dered immune by inoculation, the parasitic organism
breeds rapidly and immediately sets up a rapid
destruction of the red corpuscles of the blood. A
high state of fever results (tick fever), and in
advanced stages the waste matter from the destruc-
tion of the corpuscles causes congestion of the urinary
organs, which in about 80 p.c. or 90 p.e. of cases
ends in the death of the victim. The onward march
of the tick continues through coastal Australia, and
if he has not yet appeared on the Richmond he cer-
tainly will ere long. All stock owners are hereby
earnestly advised to inoculate everything of the
bovine species as soon as the pest approaches and
before fever breaks out. Don't depend on local
‘bleeders,” as the blood of these may not be effec-
tive, but secure “blood” from the Queensland Stock
Department. Inoculation of a herd after the fever
has appeared in that particular mob would only aug-
ment the virulence of the outbreak. When the pest
and its attendant fever first began to run riot in the
herds of Central and South Queensland the usual
quack came forward with his usual infallible remedy,
and stockowners were fleeced in the purchase of tons
of rubbish. There is no cure for redwater. Inocula-
tion is the preventive. Dosing a cow merely excites
her and sends the temperature up the extra degree
or two that kills. Writer found that those placed
in a cool, shady place, and merely let alone, recov-
ered much more frequently than those treated with
alleged remedies. “Marloo’s” ticks, so plentiful in
the vicinity of Lismore, are probably scrub ticks.
The only possible explanation otherwise would be that
they, or their immediate ancestors, had been bred on
horses or marsupials, and had thus not developed the
protoplasm productive of red water. Writer, though
a breeder of cattle in a heavily-infested area, has not
had a fatal or obviously bad case in his herd for
many years. Cattle in an infested area probably all
have the disease in a mild form when mere calves,
and become immune before reaching maturity. Fatal
cases among calves are very rare, as the vigor of
growth and the rapidity of production of the red
corpuscles in the blood of a young calf neutralise the
action of the protoplasms to a large extent. Humidity
and warmth are essential to the welfare of the
cuss, which accounts for the fact that, although he
has worked in west from the coast to the foot of the
ranges in most places, the tick is almost unknown in
the somewhat arid and frosty tableland or downs
country. Climatic conditions and not tick regula-
tions or inspectors are responsible for this, for., as
hereinbefore stated, marsupials carry the pest, and
the wallaby is a noted scoffer at authority and no
respecter of quarantine lines, Acts of Parliament or
other paraphernalia of the Law.
Lagani-Namo”: Some natives in the
Solomons having dropped in one day to have a yarn
with a Samoan mission teacher, found him, to their
surprise, apparently roasting a woman—on a big open
hearth. They hurriedly congratulated him on his
conversion to cannibalism, and signified their in-
tention of remaining for the banquet. Then he told
them that they were wrong in thinking that he’d
become a cannibal. The body had, he explained, been
rescued from the surf, and his object in putting it
on the fireplace was to try and reanimate it with
heat. At this they simply collapsed with mirth, and
remarked that he was a subtle dog; but that he
need not be afraid. “Mum” was the word with them.
M hen he angrily ordered them away, they took no
notice, simply recognising it as an attempt to bluff
them. And until the body on the hob suddenly
began screaming “Fife!” and leapt, cursing, into
the atmosphere, those hilarious youths fully believed
that they would be entertained at an excellent dinner
of hot, succulent girl.
* * * *
Ivuscobin”: There is one industry in
Australia that’s going to benefit by the war—and
that’s the “jigging” of .vacka gum in Kangaroo
Island (S.A.). 1 did a bit of this at the time of
the Boer war, and made good money at it. Yacka
gum is the gum around the stem of grass trees and
blaekboys (Xanthorrhia). The Kangaroo Island
variety is particularly strong in picric acid. Lyd-
dite and melinite are chemical picrates of potassium
and ammonium, so Kangaroo Islanders should reap
a harvest while the war lasts. The price went up
to £7 a ton at the height of the South African war,
and, with the real patriotism of commerce, was
mostly exported to Germany to be manufactured
thei e. The process of collecting is simple. Ordi-
nary chaff sacking is tied in the shape of a tree-
guard around the base of the yacka. With a tommy-
hawk, or, rather, a half-handled “Douglas,” the
gum is chipped off and the sacking catches it as it
flies. It is then put into a winnowing machine,
the ordinary device of the cocky, and cleansed of
the husks and powder. I’ve never heard of its
being locally used in manufacture, but I don’t think
there was an ammunition factory in Australia in my
time. Whether grass tree gum from the mainland is
us-d for the purpose I don’t know—if it were, we
should soon have another great national industry to
try and tempt Cohen with.
THE HURRY AND THE CAUSE
THEREOF.
THE BEER DEVOURER: “It’s quite true what
the beak said last lime he fined me gs.
Bill. Drink hastens folk to the grave.”
A GREAT CHANGE.
"Waiter, you don't make as good coffer here as you did before the restaurant ,changed hand,"
"No, sir. We don't make it at all now, H'e use the natural article. Yen'll Hie it
better as you get accustomed to it, sir."
“Lngani-Namo”: Jonah isn’t the only
bloke who has travelled through the deep in the
inteiior of a whale. Away in the Long Ago, a boy
of Kadu (Torres Strait) was gulped down holus-
bolus into a fish, whilst he was. diving to clear his
net. He didn’t keep a log-book, but he knew by
the changes in temperature of his cabin that the
leviathan took him somewhere into Polar Seas. After
he had been many moons in his fish-ship, and had
begun to weary of it, he noticed one day that his
apartment was uncomfortably hot. It became hotter
and more hot, so that he was presently gasping for
air. He tried to force his way out
through the eyes, gills and mouth, but
his efforts were unsatisfactory. In
desperation he seized the pearlsliell
maili (crescent-shaped ornament)
which was hanging from his neck, and
with it cut through the fish, and
found that it had stranded on an atoll
that seemed familiar, to him. He
walked to the far side of the island,
and found a sister of his who had
married during his absence and shifted
to the new address. A few days later
he, with his brother-by-marriage and
five other boys, set out in a canoe for
his own village. Upon arrival no one
but his former wife recognised him,
and she would not acknowledge him
because she had a new man who
pleased her better. The upshot was a
fight between Jonah’s party and the
co-respondent’s mob of relatives, in
which Jonah had his usual rotten luck.
He and his five companions escaped
only by becoming flying foxes. Owing
to the strength of the wind the3 7 were
unable to make the atoll they had set
out from, but had to camp at another.
One day an old man, hearing them
chattering where they hung head
downward in the trees, climbed up
and killed them and stuck them
his belt. Guess his amazement when,
as his feet touched the ground, each
of the dead foxes became a live man.
Ilis eyeballs turned completely round
three times and his hair leapt out by
the loots and stuck into the faces of
the boys. When he had gathered him-
self and his detached whiskers together he con-
ducted them to his village, where they obtained
wives and settled down. One of them said he was the
liar who told me this legend.
“McNorth”: The remarks of “Te Pana”
(B. 2/7/ 14) arent the freeing of an anchor by means
of dynamite remind me of a disturbance of which
I was a witness some years ago in Papua. Nuba, a
half-caste in charge of a cutter, had got his anchor
foul of a large piece of “cauliflower” coral, and all
his efforts to free it had been unsuccessful. He
appealed to me. I advised him to take a cane hoop
from the mast, affix a few plugs of dynamite to it,
place it around the chain, which was straight '"up
and down, light the fuse and let the affair go. The
idea was that the hoop carrying the fracture would
s ide down the chain to the anchor, and the charge
explodmg there would remove the obstruction. Nuba did
all this, but when the infernal machine floated lazily
A MOMENTOUS QUESTION.
INEBRIATED GENT (by way of starting friendly
conversation): "'Shcuse me, Miss! Does
'tsh tram go anywhere near (hie) near
th terminush?”
on the surface instead of Sipping- down the chain it
occurred to him that he should have attached a
weight wherewith to sink the pending disturbance.
Auba wasted no time. Accompanied by his crew he
dived over the stern, and was half-way to the shore
when the uprising happened. The explosion blew a
hole in the cutter large enough to admit a full-sized
ocean, and she quickly filled and sank. But that
explosion was a mere circumstance to the burst-up
th.-'.t took place when Nuba started to explain to his
owners in Samaiai.
(Continued on page 2f)
THE GASOMETER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Every time a German shell missed the gasometer
the Tommies cheered.
—Account of the, fighting at Mons.
“I was in the war,” said the soldier-man, as he
talked to a gaping friend,
“From the week that the thing began right
up to the end.
I was near blown up by a ’undred shells from a
’undred guns,
And I ’eld the gasometer the day we fought at
Mu ns.
“They ’umped us forward to do or die when the
dawn began to shine,
And a gasometer two mile ’igli was left of
our line.
And we was ’ungry, and cold, and wishin’ to
warm the chaps,
Some corp'ral brings a quart of that
Belgian schnapps.
“On an empty stummick it ain’t a joke; it ’its the
bull’s-eye fair ;
And the shells was kickin' up dust and smoke, but,
’strewth, we didn’t care.
Big Bunky Steevens was on my right, as drunk as
a ass ;
Says ’e: ‘We’ll give ’em a cheer if they ’it the
gas.’
“The gas was a target a furlong wide, or, any’ow,
near,
And every shell that was close beside, we give it a
cheer.
There was millions of tons of gas locked up in
the tank,
But we didn’t give it a thought with the ——
schnapps we’d drank.
“For more than ’arf of a hour we watched for
that gas to go,
And the shrapnel fell in a shower from the
guns of the foe;
Steevens was ’it in the neck, and took to the
rear,
But the gasometer ’eld its ground, so we give
it a British cheer.
“There’s nothink I know in a fight that gives
you the ——• spike
Like findin’ cover and sittin’ tight and ’earin’ the
bullets strike ;
But the ’appiest hour of all the war was the
mornin’ we bore the brunt
With the gasometer on our flank and the
guns in front.
“I ’ad days in Brussels and days in Rome, and days
when we reached Berlin,
And days in Paris as we. come ome, and them was
days of sin :
But the funniest day of all was the day
at Muns,
VFhen they missed the gasometer with all their
guns.”
N.S.W.
ADAM McCAY.


■Hill
■
■ ■
m
•m
m
ymqwm
;.■■•■ ■ '•■■ ■ ' '
.; - v-
aJtoMfc-
■ ; -«».,.,'r : - . ■■;■::-<'■ ""
...... I •■:..
H.M.A.S. Australia, cleared for action, just before her departure from Sydney Harbor, 4th August, 1914
Buy Pianos made by Your
Compatriots Only.
V.'■-v ‘ * <
c . '■ • l -p
It’s Treason to do Business with the
Enemies of the Ring', but Don’t Buy
Other Foreig'n Goods.
Your Money is Needed in the Empire.
BEALE & COMPANY LIMITED
Head Office and Factories: TRAFALGAR, NELSON and COLLINS STREETS, ANNANDALE, N.S.W.
City Showrooms; 136a=136b LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
George Street, Bathurst
70 Hunter Street, Newcastle
Yass Street, Young
Wagga
Lismore
Orange
131 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Argent Street, Broken Hill
90-92 Queen Street. Brisbane, Q’land.
Townsville
Rockhampton
Maryborough
Cairns
Mackay
839 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
273 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


PattfnsinV’r 8 “r® ?-° ,d by W ‘ H - SouI »
_attinson iv Co. Ladies recommend them.
ffe sm ' e J’ou get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.-
æ
BRAND
BTUHR.
CAVIARE
FILLETED ANCHOVIES
(in Brine).
ANCHOVY PASTE.
Sold by all High-Class Provision Dealers.
C> F. STUHR & CO., Hamburg’
Indents through European Exporters only
A PLEASANT TONIC FOR ANYBODY WHO IS
“RUN DOWN.”
There are many people having no serious
ailment who yet feel “run down ’’ or out of
condition. Appetite is capricious, digestion
imperfect, and there is a general feeling of
depression and lack of vitality. In most of
these cases, the trouble is due to some de-
rangement of the digestive functions, and once
this is corrected, there is an immediate return
to normal health and vigour. It may be con-
fidently stated that for this “run down”
condition and for correcting digestive irregu-
larities, there is nothing better than a course
of Angler’s Emulsion. This remedy not only
promotes appetite and soothes and strengthens
the organs of digestion, but it exerts a most
invigora'ing tonic influence upon the general
health. Angler’s Emulsion is pleasant to take
and agrees perfectly with delicate stomachs. It
is recommended for lung troubles, digestive and [
bowel disorders, and for 11 all run down”
' condition!! and wasting diseases. It is par-
- ticularly successful in those “run down’’
I and Li' 0113 associated with nervous symptoms
! d . so m those numerous cases, that are
due to an unhealthy condition of the digestive
I ° r S ans - Wlth assimilation. It must not
be forgotten that Angler's Emulsion exe ts it
h nnlT heaHn - d action
it is of °v a l entire dlgeSt Ve area ’ therefore
lue even to the average healthy
person, because it keeps the digestive organs
m a normal healthy condition to perform their
functions naturally thus making the“se of
pills unnecessary, For twenty-one vears it has
been prescribed by the medical profession and
»s a recognised standard remedy of p^ed
See '”(!J T““ "" h a dsolute P cnnfl*
dence. uf all chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6,
PHILLIPS ORMONDE & CO., Consult-
ing Engineers, Patent and Trade Mark
Attorneys, 17 Queen Street (Lombard
Buildings), Melbourne. Established ISSS.
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE'S only one REST Riograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for ("ala-
loguo. Sole agents: Jerdan's, Ltd., 303 George
Street, Sydney.
“Billy Blue”: The Sydney dailies have
been descr.bi.ig as the first volunteers in Australia
fiL orCe f T*n hy thG 1854 Act ’ b "»'»ht about by
of the Crimean War, and, as usual, the dailies
are historically inaccurate. The first volunteers in
Australia were enrolled, by Governor John Hunter, by
a proclamation dated September 7, ISOO Hunter
created two companies, one at Sydney (50 strong)
under Captain William Balmain (who was the prin-
cipal surgeon, and offer whom the waterside suburb
yas named) The other company was formed at
arramatta (40 strong), under the command of
< aptani Richard Atkins, who held the position of
Judge-Adiocate. the first enrolment at Sydney was
NSW >y S l f gea " t *. Jauiieson and Fleming, of the
- .S.B. oi Rum-selling Corps. Sergeant McMullen
put the Parramatta corps through its facings. These
till 0 H°' llPameS v ol ' 3 00,,ti,lned on the same footing
ism e 'T,' Vel ' e C,lSba ” ded by Macquarie on June 9,
1810 they were composed of free men, enianci-
pated convicts and prisoners, and were victualled
and clothed by the Government.
GOOD OLD CHINA.
COLONEL COCKTAIL (to friend who has just
put away a dose of medicine): “No sir
if you were in China you wouldn't touch
the damned’ stuff. By Gad, sir, you'd
make your "coolie take it!"
Ginger”; Only knew of one woman cook
to Shearerss. That was in a small shed outside Lock-
hait (N.S.M.), and Kate dished the mutton and spuds
up in fine style. She had her union ticket like the
rest of “the boys.” Likewise did her cheque in
in the way once beloved by shearers. The last time
she was on the howl she sidestepped into the
Murrumbidgee at Wagga and passed out. Peace to
her ashes, for she was a girl of the old brigade.
A SOFT ANSWER.
PETER: "Could yer ’elp a fore, weak old man, kind lady?"
MISS OLD GIRL: "You don't look very old. Why don't you work?”
PETER: "Appcarances is orfen very deceivin', kin' laay. I am old enough By be your
grandpa." (Invited to sample the larder.)
• Adelaide lias liad the wannest
August on record by six degrees, and the driest;
in fact, the one 35-point shower' was less than half
the previous record. This year, the city has had
just Sin., as against the average 15 for Jan. to
August. A bit further north there ’has been onlv
half even of what the city has got, and the wheat
harvest of much of the State is beyond saving.
" hat clouds there are seem, as usual, to avoid tiie
valley of the Murray. Morgan has had under 2Jin.,
and Blanchetown (where the first-and-lowest Murray
lock and weir will be) under 2in. since Christmas.
Record prices for cattle and sheep were
obtained at Addington (M.L.) early in August a
Hereford cross bullock realising* £52 and three
Romney-Shropshire cross wethers being knocked
: down at £l5 each. The latter is an Australasian
record for fat sheep as well as a Maoriland one.
Ihe bullock and the sheep were bought by prominent
t hiistchurch (M.L.) butchers to be slaughtered, and
the high prices were not due to the Yankee octopus,
nut to the competition amongst the local meat
retailers to secure a good advertisement and to get
extra prime animals for the annual display of meat
that is always made in the Pancake City during
National Week.”
“Jans Tas”: “K. Oy.” (B. 6/S/’l4) backs
Cairns (Q.) against Creation for variety of
minerals, and names a small handful of same.
am backing Zeehan (Tasmania) against Cairns
tor one million of money; cheque will be sent
next week. My list of minerals for the West Coast
village is: Gold silver (native), silver (chlorides)
‘■a'laryr ore, lead, galena, carb, sulphate pyromor-
phite (silver anil lead), chromate of lead, Dundasite
copper, copper pyrites, black oxide of copper Fahl
ore (copper and silver), malachite, azurite, native
copper, bornite, tin (lode tin. stanite and stream tin,
> ac", grej and ruby, tin oxide), iron, manganese
iron.pyrites (producing sulphur), magnetic pyrites’,
arsenical pyrites, hematite, limonite, antimony, cal-
cite, axinite, datholite, asbestos, zinc, wolfram
nickel and osmiridiiim. There are more, but I have
forgotten them.
TE MAORI GO TE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tena koe, Missa Edita, 1 hawwa yarn to vou ;
We talk apout te pakfeha an’ how te wav 'he do
It werry neary rook rike rain; no kood we work
to-tay.
No goot he plow, I terr you what— we hawwa
horotay.
Te pakeha he ketta fight an’ ora ferra ko.
I peen town to te parimet an’ hear te korero
Pill Massey terrum ora newsh—l hear ’im what he
say—
I fink ten mirrion pakeha tey terrim “peep-poo-
Te pakeha he not too pad to make te prurrv fM, t
'' rio'lu’ t 0 Maon ’ hC tC 0ne ~ he do him werry
He tance te haka for te war; he sout rike anv-
(Te white man haka prurry rot—he sing “Gor’ Save
te King.”)
My P ™^ er Paru he te on e, no fry on him, you
An’ s’pose he terr his tripe to come fey get te
gun an’ go. .
’Nif te Kai-sir see te dance, te haka I peen say,
\en, I pet te prurry Tcherman clear rike Ilcri-
an run away.
Now s’pose te white man’s ca’ch te proke an’ newwa
kill ’im ted,
An mf he got no sark an’ spud, an’ nif he "ot
no ped, ®
He gnv-’im prenty prankit, an’ he giw-’im pren'y
An’ he werry kine t’at ferra an’ he newwa ret-’im
My poy he read uni ora newsh—you know he
peen-a school—
An ’ Pa 4 te way 1 terra 30u, te white man prurry
Te Maori make te proper fire, an’ t’en he make te
stoo.
He kill his ferra ted an’ t’en he eat te pegger, too.
JUAORILAND.
JOHN R. COLE.
“Bill Bowang” ; Ilurroo for a White Aus-
\ Str “ ck , a burning-off camp near Coonamble
(N.S.W.), which is bossed by a Chow. Counted in
his gang three white men, two half-castes, two
aboriginals and one Malay. I'll give the Chow boss
ciemt for paying his men the ruling wage— 3os
per week and found. Also, lie believes in eight hours
a day. Furthermore, he keens an excellent Chow
cook, who never turns a bagman down.
The Finneys, Father and Son.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FLR oz long ez I’ve the mind t’ re-
mimber, said I Iynn, “YY illie Finney
was a bye a dale too lai'-l'ge fet’
the clothes he would be wearin*. Ye’d pic-
ture him projectin’, in a manner iv shpeak-
iu’, wid his poor, shmall tlirousis doin’ their
level best t’ kape up wid the times, ’n’ wid
the feet to him gr-reatly in excess, also a
superfluity iv hair, ’n’ two hands which fer
size was more than ample fer the require-
ments iv an elephant, lave alone a human
been. Whin twinty-siven he was shtill tin
seizes too lar-rge fer his environment, ’n'
his tlirousis was shtill strainin’ t’ cover the
ground.
hlie s da. Harney, was no bigger’n a
shmall man, n’ wake too wid the lumbago
m his bones—a shrivelled, squakiu’, trimbly
ould man you’d pick up wid wan hand.
Haven t I seen \\ ill ie take him be the scruff
p/-' if lie was no more n a three weeks kitten,
m trow him on the ash hape in the yar-rd !
lliat would be in the coorse iv a domestic
ciiiithreteinps, which same was frequent
tween \\ illie ’n his da.
“Of’en an ar-r-gument would crop up
betwane thnn two, ’n’ Willie would roar,
iLi Ka 'r y woul , d 'n’ squeal ye'd
t link twas a desprit coekytoo havin’ a
shtiuggle wid the bull. Then t’ settle it ’n’
r 6 iv Ce u ?. th<! llonw Willie Finney
would lift up Ins ould father, ’n’ give him
.Inre °’n S ’ VP * le ilsh lu, l ,e f i‘ini the kitcliin
dine, n Barney would land on his ear. or
Jist aunyhow. ’iT come up. sliakin' the
ashes trim his hair, ’n’ if there was wan
mai would say. so he would-
‘“There’s a bye! Did yell mind the way
he troo met Al.-h. but a great, fine, sthrong
bye is me son Willie g
wo . r '*' d . of complaint could army
fnm Harney thim o-ccasions.
IJ does an ould man the wor-rld iv
good, sez he, n’ ’tis gr-reat consolation t’
me t. know me son have growed up aftlier
me, stern V mastherful,. V wid some e-
gar-rd fer the father that bore him would
injuce him t’ direct ’n’ insthruct n> ’ ’
moderate me conduct. ’Tis a poor thing t’
be a silly ould man with no son at all carin’
sufficient t’ raise a hand to him whin his
foolishness is sthrong on him. Glory be, me
son Y\ illie is none iv tliim spen’thrifts ’n’
wasters, carin’ nothing fer annyone but their
own case,, that would not take the shmall
throuble t' bate a poor man ’n’ him nadin’ it
however bad.’
“In the coorse iv time Willie Finney was
thinlan’ iv talcin’ Mary Doyle t’ wife, ’n’
for fear his da would be dishcommoded he
tU i i 11 him t’ live in what was the
ptnd lien shed, jist boam-ding up the front,
n trowing in a few thrifles iv beddin’. To
ave tbe malcin’ iv a dure, lie cut a hole be
the Aure you’d stop wid the lid iv a barr'l,
m Barney would crape in on llie knees iv
him. I’ve seen the ould man there iv a
war-rm day. wid his head pokin’ out like a
shmall. venirable tortoise, ’n’ sez he: —
‘D’yeh not invy me me little dacent
house Michael Flynn? ’Tis Willie’s buildin’
n sthrong ’n’ sthrait agin the stor-rum.
Gorcoran s son, Jim, put his lawful begotten
father be the Binevelent whin he married
wid Kate Walsh, but Willie Finney is wan
recognises the rispict becomin’ towarrds bis
ca h .Y P^ a . ce< 3 ’n’ happy I am this day.’
At that viry moment iv time Willie
hinney come out. V put the barr’l lid t’
the hole; but Barney got to a crack, ’n’ sez
he:—
err' a tall, Sood lad. Willie.’ he sez.
Jwill kape me from the draught. Ye’ll
tell them be the township. Misther Flynn,
me son s good care fer me. ’n’ me grown so
1 m scarce worth the buryinV
“Willie Finney got married wid Mary
1 oy e beyant et Gordon’s, ’n’ there was fine
doins > n tumultchiis dancin’; then three
days iv a honeymoon et Ballarat. Willie
n Jus wife come home in a hired htiggv.
wid show n’ ceremony. V Willie brought
Ins wife straight to the back dure: but there
a tiinnnps po-liceman met him. ’n’ sez ho:
lioro, Willie Finney. ?
IS' fer whot can’t a man come to his
mvn house ’n home,’ sez Willie, ‘wid his own
wife? he sez.
. Trow him on the ash hape, officer!’
piped ould Finney from the back. ‘Tin shil-
, 8 , iv’ry time yeh trow him on the asli
hape. n God help ye all !’
, . that another ilephant iv a con-
stable kim for-rward, ’n’ the two tuck ’n’
. ''illie on the ash hape. ’n’ ev’ry time
uhe kim up ragin’ they tuck ’n’ troo him
011 >. U 8 hPad on the ash hape. ’n’ ould Finnev
yeHm n squakin’ wid delight the while ye’d
!. mk a cage iv cockytoos was havin’ con-
tinyis hysterics.
Sivin pounds tin shillin’ was aimed lie
them officers iv the law before Willie dhrew
off wid his wife ’n’ contimplated develop-
m<YoS , 0111 the vicinity iv the hen-house.
“ ”N’ what’s the manin’ iv this outrage?’
sez lie. “Tis mortal bitter fer a man t’ see
Us own father ranged with the law agin
him.’ he sez.
• nieans,’ piped ould Finney, shrill ’n’
high, this house is mine, ’n’ the land is all
me own. ’n’ from hinceforth I’m t’ be mas-
ther iv me property, wid none t’ dare trow
ine otit . from ine own dure. Would veil
shta.v wid me, Willie Finnev; ye’ll live be
the Inn house, ’n’ ye’ll crawl 'in. ’n* ye’ll
crawl out, ’n’ be grateful fer the shelter ’n’
crumb I’ll give yeh.’
“’N’ so it happened. A whole year Willie
Finney wid his wife lived be the hin-house.
n they went in troo the hole, ’n’ they kern
ANOTHER SCOTCH ONE.
THE ELDER: “Ye told me the morn, McNabb,
ye only had a shillin ; now no man could
get like ye are with a shillin’."
McNABB : “Aye, man, but I'm a-tellin' ye I
still hae the shilling.”
out ez they went in, ’n’ ould Finney would
squark wid glee seein’ them, ’n’ allow them
never a dure t' go troo upright like decent
people. There was nothin’ fer Willie t’ do
but submit, hopin’ the land would come to
liim when the ould man died. Did he at-
tempt army interferences wid Barney the
two triminjis po-lice kirn out to order, ’rr’
troo him on his head in the ash lrape, till he
was more a raysonable ’n’ jutiful son.
“That way Willie Finney is s'htill runrrin’
Ihe far-rm fer little more than his bed ’n’
boar-rd. lie has a dure t' the bin-house
these days, but Barney’s shrill ’n’ sharp wid
him, ’n’ no nearer dyin’ than a hale man
who’s so dried t’ the bone von couldn’t cut
him wid a razor. Some day—maybe in
thirty years—he’ll hit hand agin the chim-
bley ’n’ crumble t’ dust. 'Tis for that Willie
Finney is laboriously waitin’.”
EDDYSON.


.
a
/
Melbourne’s
Most Up-to-date and
Most Conveniently-
Situated Hotel.
New Building
contains
ISO Rooms.
#9
.-'A-
-4
M
n
liil
RIB
%
| * -
0 /rN
m
I mrnmmtmr g
Me.
Visitors to Melbourne are reminded that
Carlyon's New Hotel is now completed and
fitted with the latest and most up-to-date
conveniences* Situated immediately opposite
the Spencer Street Railway Station*
Trams and 'Bus Services pass the door
every minute to all theatres and places of
Amusement. Tariff Moderate (on application).
Meals from 6 a.m. to midnight.
Corner of BourKe &, Spencer Streets
TELEPHONE:
CENTRAL 443.
Melbourne.
T. S. CARLYON,
Proprietor.


A FEW NOtyELY
. . HINTS ON . .
BEAUTY.
By RITA MOYA.
Every woman slioulil lake pride in her personal appearance. If it is not possible to
be beautiful in the fullest sense of the word, at least you can have the attractiveness of a
pleasant expression, glossy, well-kept hair, eyes shaded by long lashes, well marked eye-
brows and a clear, natural complexion. My first advice is to avoid most manufactured
“beauty preparations.” Use simple, pure, natural ingredients. Use these regularly, and do
not make, constant changes and experiments. The various things I use and advise can be
bought in original packages from any reliable chemist. If they are not in stock he can at
once procure them from his wholesaler if you insist.
How I Discarded an Unsightly Complexion.
—How many women exclaim as they behold
their ugly complexions in the mirror: “If I
could only tear off this old skin!” and, do you
know, it is now possible to do that very thing?
Not to actually remove the entire skin all of a
sudden; that would be too heroic a method
and painful, too, I imagine. The worn-out
cuticle comes off in such tiny particles, and
so gradually—requiring about 10 days to com-
plete the transformation—it doesn’t hurt a bit,
Day by day the beautiful complexion under-
neath comes forth. Marvellous! No matter
how muddy, rough, blotchy or aged your com-
plexion, you can surely discard it by this
simple process. Just get some ordinary mer-
colised wax at your chemist’s, apply nightly
like cold cream, washing it off in the morn-
ings.
New Painless Way to Remove Hairy
Growths.—lt now transpires that the mys-
terious white paste used so successfully bv
many beauty specialists for ridding the’skin
of objectionable hairy growths is ifbtliing
more than powdered pheminol, which can be
found in any chemist’s shop. With pheminol
and water make enough paste to cover hairy
surface; apply, and in two or three minutes
rub off. wash the skin, and it will be free
from hair or blemish.
Shampoo and Hair Beautifler.— You comulain
of brittle, faded hair. You will And that keep-
ing the scalp clean and healthy is the most
effective way to restore the natural beauty
and softness, but in selecting your shampoo
avoid soaps or mixtures containing “free”
alkali. By dissolving a teaspoonful of stallax
in a cup of liot water you will have a mild,
soothing, cleansing mixture that makes the
head feel fine and removes all dust, dandruff
and excess of oil. leaving the scalp clean and
pliant, and assuring a beautiful growth of
long, lustrous, fluffy hair.
No Powder Necessary.—Yes, powder has
ruined more complexions that it has aided,
and while you use it you can hope for nothing
better than an imitation of a real complexion.
Take” my advice. Get from your chemist some
ordinary cleniinite and dissolve in a little
water, then you will have an ideal yet inex-
pensive lotion, which seems a part of the skin,
The result lasts all day long even under the
most trying conditions. To prepare the face
and neck for an evening in a hot ballroom
there is nothing to equal this simple and harm-
less lotion.
If Eyelashes are Short.—Eyelashes will be
greatly beautified if mennaline be applied at
lash-roots with thumb and forefinger. A
few such treatments make them grow long,
silky and curly. Thin, straggly eyebrows will
grow thick and lustrous by merely rubbing
mennaline on, but be careful and don’t get
any where no hair is wanted.
Wonderful Growth of Hair.—Long ago I
made a resolution to try and concoct a real
hair grower. My own formula, now perfected
after tedious experimenting, has had the effect
ot giving me a wealth of hair that is surpris-
ing. Obtain from your chemist an original
package of boranium and mix with this i-piut
of bay rum. Hub this into the scalp night
and morning with the finger tips. It sets the
hair roots tingling with new life. [6
The Royal
Tonic
The Tonic
of Queens !
’M
■iSBX
fritiomsv«»»'»! «nuJ
TSUiillj S
iiillilSif j. °
liPPliilS
■us iilial-SL
S5S5
Phosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a huff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
m
Choose a “ Swan.’*
The comfort of it, the sureness, ease,
sweetness —each and every character-
istic deserves notice. The “Swan”
Fountpen pleases the most impatient,
exacting writer —those who expect
more out of a pen than others have
given. We can satisfy such and win
their enthusiastic recommendation.
Every hand suited exactly.
”■ “Swan Safety
Can't l^ealE,
Blot, Miss,
or Scratch!
Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London and
Branches.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only): J. A. BURKE,'
5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney.
\
TftAOC
\'\K-
\
B.S.A
.
trade
MARKS
B.S.A
THE WORLD’S BEST
For all-round work, for sporting or range shooting, for every quality that a
there is nothing to equal the . .
rifle should ha*J,
B.S.A. No. 2 Model Rifle
.22
CALIBRE
Thi* rifle was good enough to win the 1913 miniature championship of New South Wales for
Mr. Faux, and many other important competitions and matches. Largely used by rabitters
and others on account of its unerring consistency. A full length man’s rifle, good to handle
and good to look at, sighted 200 yards and sold by all up-to-date dealers at 35/-.
Also supplied in folding pattern for cyclists, motorists and travellers at 45/-
Write now for descriptive booklet to
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B S.A. Co. Ltd.), Australian Bldgs., Melb.
The Scientific Scaler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f Sydney Post Office clock was strik-
| the hour of three. Upon the
second stroke the front doors of the
various city banks closed with a simultane-
ous crash. At the third stroke a young man
detached himself from a post in George-
street and leisurely entered the jewellery
establishment of Sparkel Bros. He was well-
dressed and of good appearance, but as he
stood in the shop swinging his cane and
glancing about with an air of indecision, he
gave forth an unmistakable odor of gum-
leaves.
“Willie Merino down for Easter,” ob-
served the manager to his assistant. “Get
him —quick ! He’s going to change his mind !”
The assistant darted out and cut off his
retreat.
“Yes. sir?”
“Gh —er, I was thinking of looking at
some gold watches, but it just occurred to
me”-
“This way, sir.”
With apparent reluctance he allowed him-
self t>' be towed to a case of gold watches,
concerning which the assistant was about to
expend considerable hot air when the visitor
interrupted him.
“Let me tell you what I want it for. A
young fellow saved my life recently at great
risk of his own—motor-boat capsize—can’t
swim young man dashed in, chanced sharks
and all that, and brought me ashore in spite
of my frantic efforts to drown us both ! Ha !
Ha! So you see I want something good.
Now, what about this—no, I won’t have that
—nor that —nor —what’s this? Fifty
guineas! ’M, don’t fancy it much. How
about this one—eh! Eighty pounds? Well,
it looks some class.”
He weighed it carefully in his hand, put it
to his ear, opened the case, and squinted into
it.
* Guess that will about do. Eighty pounds,
eh? A bit stiff, isn’t it? Bedrock? Ah,
well, I’ll take it.”
The assistant was about to make up the
package when the other placed a hand on his
arm and looked him squarely in the eye.
“I shall have to pay by cheque.”
The assistant stopped dead, raised his eye-
brows slightly and pursed his lips.
“Against your rules of business, eh? Well,
a man' can’t carry £BO about him in cash.
At least, I never do.”
The shopman “llem’d” nervously and
looked at the clock. The customer followed
his glance and gave a start.
. “After three, by George! I didn’t notice
it was after banking hours. But, look here ;
where’s the manager. I think this matter
can be fixed up.”
The assistant, with one hand on the watch,
semaphored across the shop, and the mana-
ger approached. The ciicumstances being
explained to him, his face at once assumed
an air of regretful non-compliance with the
request. It was an expression he had prac-
tised specially for such emergencies, and one
which he could produce at a moment’s notice.
The customer seemed surprised at first, then
smiled and shook his head slowly. Evidently
the refusal of his cheque was a quite novel
experience, and struck him as rather whimsi-
cal. He said he had often dealt at Sparkel
Bros, for cash. Did not the manager re-
member him? The manager regretfully
owned up to an entire ignorance of ever hav-
ing seen him before. Well, was it a refer-
ence the manager required? The manager
thought that a reference might—-
“Then ring up the proprietor of the New
Holland Hotel. My name is Clarke—Septi-
mus Howard Clarke, of Fleeceton Station,
New England.”
“Thank you, Mr. Clarke. If you will ex-
cuse me a moment”-——
He went away and rang up the New Hol-
land Hotel. The fact of the telephone being
situated at the farther end of the shop
enabled the manager to describe Mr. Clarke’s
personal appearance minutely without being
overheard by that gentleman. The New Hol-
land manager said he would have no hesita-
tion in trusting Mr. Septimus Clarke to the
extent of a couple of hundred. Sparkel’s
manager replaced the receiver, signalled “line
clear” to the assistant, and returned to his
visitor with an apologetic squirm. After re-
ceiving the protestations and prostrations
of both, Septimus placed the watch in his
pocket and left the shop.
Twenty minutes later he entered the fish
saloon of Garlicus Oisterpatti and called for
a plate of prawns. At the same table sat
Abraham Lewis, dealer in second-hand jewel-
lery. Garlicus waited upon Septimus in
person, and the latter engaged him in conver-
sation. He addressed him as “Bob,” and
appeared to know him well, which rather
surprised Abraham.
“Look here. Bob! I made a regular mess
of things to-day, and no mistake. You re-
member that motor-boat capsize off Brad-
ley’s last Wednesday? No? Well. if doesn’t
matter, only that I’m the man who fell in—
can’t swim a stroke, you know! Young
Mclvell, who was with me, jumped in and
brought me ashore. Well, I’ve been thinking
it was up to me to make him a presentation,
so I went to-day to Snarkels and bought a
watch —here it is. The price was £BO
—fair dinkum ! See, here’s the receipt.”
“But you—you say you mak’ a mess,” said
Garlicus.
“Well. I find now lie’s srot a gold watch.
That’s the mess! The thing’s no good to me,
because I’ve also got a gold watch—see
re !”
'That ees bad.”
“Rotten, I call it. The only thing to do
now is to get someone to take it off my hands.
I’d let it go for forty.”
Abraham looked interested and murmured
sympathy. Septimus acknowledged the re-
mark stiffly, and went on talking to the pro-
prietor. After all, he didn’t think he would
sell it. Didn’t like the idea of losing
£4O. Besides, there was always some-
one’s birthday coming along—what with
nephews and
“Would you mind me looking at it?” in-
terrupted Abraham, suavely.
Septimus handed it over, together with the
receipt. lie appeared to regard Abraham
with more favor than at first. He said he
hated doing things in this way—made him
look like a Jew peddler, but if Abraham had
a genuine desire to get a good article cheap
this was a splendid opportunity. He could
safeguard himself by ringing up Sparkel
Bros. In fact, Septimus would prefer that
he should do so. Abraham apologetically
accepted the invitation, and with Garlicus’s
permission rang up the firm.
It was a pale and very perturbed manager
who received the inquiry. Clearly he had
been taken in. Less than half an hour
previously this man Clarke had obtained an
eighty-pound watch from him by means of a
cheque, and now he was trying to sell the
article for £4O cash !
‘‘Don’t let him leave the premises!” he
bellowed back. “Haggle with him. Try
and beat him down—anything at all to de-
tain him while I get the police on his track.
The scoundrel!”
Septimus was easily detained. Tilting
back his chair he ogled the ceiling and
trifled with a toothpick while the agitated
Abraham carried on a pretence of bargain-
ing with him. Considering the dangerous
game he was carrying on, the man from
New England was surprisingly indifferent to
the flight of time, and amazingly obdurate
in the matter of price. lie refused £35,
and was just considering an offer of
£37 when the manager of Sparkel Bros.,
accompanied by a policeman, walked in.
The sight appeared to give Septimus a
shock. He turned pale and sprang to his
feet, then sat down again, folded his arms,
and glared at the jeweller as the latter,
with a preliminary “There he is, that’s the
fellow !” gave him into custody. The nature
of the charge had been already explained to
the policeman, and that intelligent officer,
ignoring the indignant protestations of Sep-
timus, took him by the sleeve and led him
away. As he went he loudly expressed the
humiliation he felt at being lumbered like a
common thief, and fervently hoped he would
meet no one he knew. Nevertheless, lie
resolutely declined to pay for a cab or to
travel in one if it was brought.
The number of acquaintances he met on
the way was amazing, and each in turn was
the last person he wanted to meet under such
circumstances. His readiness to salute
them struck his guardian as rather strange,
but not so strange as the fact (hat none of
them returned the salute—with the excep-
tion of an old gentleman who appeared to be
rather short-sighted, and who immediately
afterwards stopned and stared at the prisoner
with an expression of nurple indignation.
“Look here,” said Septimus, as they neared
the station, “do you’ know what you ale
doing? What right: have you to arrest me?
The cheque has not been presented yet—how
do you know it won’t be paid? I tell you,
officer, you are acting illegally, and if you
put the matter to the Crown Law Office
they’ll tell you the same.”
It was only after his charge was safely
lodged in the cells that the force of his re-
marks struck the policeman. It also struck
his superior officer when the case was put to
him, and that functionary immediately
’phoned the Crown Law Office. The expert
opinion was brief and emphatic, and next
moment the prisoner was given his liberty so
hurriedly that it almost amounted to as-
sault.
At 10 o’clock next morning the assistant
from Sparkel Bros, was waiting on the steps
of the A.B.C. Immediately the door swung
open he rushed in and presented Septimus
Clarke’s cheque, then braced himself for the
shock that was to follow. He got it, but
it was not the one he looked for. The shock
consisted of the nromnt payment of the
cheque! With £BO in his pocket the
young man walked slowly and thoughtfully
back to the shop and passed the shock on to
his superior. And before that gentleman
had time to recover, the postman entered and
handed him a solicitor’s letter, which, after
setting forth the social position of his client,
Mr. Septimus Howard Clarke, of Fleeceton
Station, New England, and his unimpeach-
able record, went on to describe the ignominy
and humiliation he had suffered through his
wrongful and illegal arrest at the hands of
Messrs. Sparkel Bros., and the immense and
incalculable damage to his reputation conse-
quent upon his being marched through the
streets like a common felon. Now, what
were Messrs. Soarkel Bros, going to do about
it?
What they did about it was to hand Sep-
timus a consolation cheque for £450, together
with a letter of apology. And the dazed
manager would willingly give a good round
sum from his own pocket to anyone who could
settle for him the following conundrum :
Was it all merely a horrible blunder, or was
the whole thing a “ready”? Communications
to be marked “strictly nrivate.”
W. G. DAVIS.
A Bush Grange.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(After reading Herrick’s “His Grange, or Private
Wealth.”)
A hut
I have, among the hills, and there
I shut
These days the little door on Care.
Rooms four
I count, snug built, with windows small,
Stained floor,
And sketch (by Conder) on the wall.
A shelf
I keep, with cheese and wine and bread.
Blue del'f,
Jugs, jars and autumn apples red.
The land
I own, bush, creek and sky—to-day,
And stand
And see my yard stretch miles away.
An axe
I boast, to chop dead logs for fire;
Two sacks
(For bark and chips) to blaze it higher.
A lamp
(Well filled) I sometimes take, and guide
To camp,
The traveller, through dark ways, with
pride.
A bird
I know, perched on the window sill.
Is heard
To peck for scraps, and chirp, and trill.
And wife
I have, who plays me Back o’ nights ;
Where strife
None is, the hush has all delights.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


HEARNE’S
The finest remedy in the world for COUGHS Sr COLDS
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
cure
THIS Medicine can be given with PERFECT SAFETY and COM-
PLETE CONFIDENCE to the YOUNGEST CHILD and most
AGED PATIENT, as it does NOT and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs. The REPUTATION of and the DEMAND
for HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE are BIGGER now than ever.
“lama Nurse and have recommended HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure to many sufferers.
I have known it to be successful when all other Medicines failed. For Bronchitis it is
simply WONDERFUL. It saved my son’s life.” R WATSON, Frankston.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure is obtainable from all RELIABLE CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
Cure
the
Remedy
with the
Reputation
r
JO!
s s.
\m
w
N'X'
&
m
H»k«
%
>/*/'"
1
5sc
- I
-4^
U2ZZ& '
! n
//.
14U
ill
frn |!i li "i#
1 1
-
m
1(180®
M
rZ<fn
1
8»r'
KS
f
m
-IV
L
Sk.
Z7
///
//
0
\
I
If any trouble experienced in
getting it, send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO.
LIMITED
GEELONG, VICTORIA
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
pp
■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : BrLcoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Ans. Rep.—T. Nicholls, o/o Sydney Agents.
‘ON THE HOP
A superb library volume of historic interest, handsomely printed and
bound, containing upwards of Three Hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings.
Reproduced full “Bulletin” size. Price 215., from “The Bulletin” Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
V
Ask for
at the
Use Horlick’s Malted Milk —
the invigorating Food-Drink
in cases of Mental Exhaus-
tion, impaired digestion, in
fact all nerve troubles.
HORLICKS
!hlf
tfALTEDMII*
1
p*iU<
Horlick’s
Soda Fountain. \
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps,
Write Hutchinson & Co., 26,
Jamieson Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
MALTED
MILK
There is no need for Australians to
US€
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUDENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box) Eudenta.
Write to
1/- per tube.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will he sent post free.
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND ” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d.


Watches!
We can offer you choice from the largest, most
varied display of good, reliable Timekeepers in
all Australasia, and, as practical Watchmakers
of 30 years’ standing, we personally recommend
every watch we sell.
Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, £4, £4/10/- iset.
Gold, £7/10/- Other Designs, £5, £6, £7,
£B, £lO, £l2/10/-
Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, high-
grade movement, non-magnetic, extra
strong works, 25/-, 30/- Silver,
30/-, 35/-. Extra Heavy, 40/-,
50/-, GO/-, 70/-, 80/- With
liigh-grade works, £5, £6, £7,
£B/10/-
Gent.’s Military Wristlet Watch, Nickel or Gun
metal Case, High-grade Lever Movement, 20/- 25/-
30/- Silver, 40/-, 50/- *2O years guaranteed
Rolled Gold Case, £3/10/-
Lady’s Soiul Silver,
Open-face Keyless
Watch, full jewelled,
accurate, 20/- Extra
Quality, 25/-, 30/-,
40/-, 50/- Solid Gold,
40/-, 50/-, 60/-,
“' 75/-
30 1-
Lady’s Solid Silver,
Hunting Keyless
Watch, 3-plate, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, 20/- Extra
jewelled, 30/-, 40/-
IT ighcr-grade Levers,
60/-, 70/-
Send for our
Free Watch
Booklet.
SPECIAL VALUE !
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Key-
less Watch, jewelled, dust and
waterproof cases, accurate, reliable,
10/-, 12/6, 15/- _ Higher grade,
non-magnetic time spring, thoroughly
guaranteed, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
10/-
8/6
N
&
Lady’s Black, Open-
face Keyless Watch,
full jewelled, dust and
waterproof cases, 8/0.
Higher grade, 10/-,
12/6, 15/-, 20/-
£4
Lady’s Solid Gold
Hunting / Keyless
Lever Watch, full
jewelled, patent adjusted
balance, £3/1 0/-. Extra
jewelled, £4, £5, £G.
£7/10/-, £lO.
W atches!
Each Watch is thoroughly oiled and adjusted
before leaving our Showrooms, and we give a
written guarantee (according to the price) with
every watch we sell, of 1,2, 3,4, 5 and 6 years’
free repairs. This is of real value to YOU.
Lady’s Wristlet Watch, Oxidised Case, reli-
able movement, Morocco and other Leather Straps
in popular shades, 12/6, 15/-, 20/-, 257-
Silver, 40/-, 45/- Gold, £2, £3/10/-
55/
60/
■
m
m
l
Gent.’s Patent, 10 years guar-
anteed, Gold-cased Hunting
Keyless Waltham, Elgin,
£2/15/-, £3. 20 years guaranteed,
£4/4/- 25 years guaranteed,
£5/5/- Extra Jewelled, £6/6/-
Solid Gold, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B, £lO, up to £25,
807 - 817 GEO RGE
STREET, SYDNEY.
A. SAUNDERS,
Opposite Railway
Station, SYDNEY.
ǽ
Edison New Blue
Amberol Records
for September.
There are seven new artists, whose talent is well up to the
Edison Standard, who make their appearance this month.
They are Charlotte Kirwan, Kathryn Ilall Staats, Daisy
Taylor, E. A. Couturier, Owen J. McCormack and P. Hughes.
Moreover, nearly all items are new to our Catalogue.
Notable among the very popular records is “Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee,”
Eliz. Spencer and W. Van Brunt; “What D’ye Mean You Lost Yer Dog?”
Edward Meeker; “International Bag Medley” (Turkey Trot), National Promenade
Band ; “Mr. John Mackenzie,” Billy Williams.
The list comprise; 2 Concert and 32 Regular Records, all of which are very well
arranged.
Your nearest Edison dealer will gladly let you hear them.
BLUE AMBEROL CONCERT RECORDS.
28187 —Elsa’s Traum (Elsa’s Dream) —Lohen-
grin—Soprano Solo in German, oreli.
acc. Marie Itappold.
28188—Air des Rijoux (Jewel Song)—Faust—
Soprano Solo in French, orch. ace.
Marguerita Sylva.
BLUE AMBEROL REGULAR RECORDS.
2021 —Snow Deer —Indian Song, orch. ace.—-
Ada Jones and Billy Murray.
20G1—Sweet Longing—Violin, Flute and Harp—
Venetian Instrumental Trio.
2085 —Lieber Augustin, from Miss Caprice—■
Soprano, orch. ace. Elizabeth Spence)-.
2087 —Ever Since You Told Me That You Loved
Me —Comic Song, orch. acc.
Billy Murray.
2893 —Musical Wizard and the Bell Boy—
Musical Act —Spencer and A. H. Campbell.
2094 Song-Bird—lntermezzo—Bells, orch. acc.
Charles Daab.
2095 ’Lizabeth Ann—Tenor Duet, orch. acc.
A. 11. Campbell and Irving Gillette.
2117 —The Lord is My Shepherd—Soprano and
Contralto, orch. acc.
Charlotte Kirwan and Kathryn Hall Staatfi.
2119 — A Dream—-Cornet, orch. acc.
E. A. Couturier.
2120 When the Song Birds Sing No More-
Tenor, orch. acc. Emory B. Randolph.
2121 When 1 Dream of Old Erin —Tenor and
chorus, orch. ace.
Irving Gillette and Chorus.
2122 If You Only Knew What 1 Know, Says
the Moon —Comic Song, orch. acc.
Ada Jones.
2125 — Where Is My Wandering Boy To-night?
—Sacred, orch. acc.—
Edison Mixed Quartet.
2126 — My Mother’s Old Red Shawl—Counter-
tenor, orch. ace.— Will Oakland.
2131 When I Lost You —Violin Solo, harp
acc. Charles D’Almaine.
2132 Favorite Airs from Rob Roy—
Edison Light Opera Co.
2137—What D'ye Mean You Lost Yer Dog?—
Comic Song, orch. ace. —■ Edward Meeker.
2139 — International Bag Medley—Turkey Trot
For Dancing—
Nat ionaT Promenade Band.
2140 — Be Mv Little Baby Bumble Bee —A
Winsome Widow —Soprano and Tenor,
orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer and Walter Yan Brunt.
2141 — Down in Monkeyville—Jungle Song,
orch. acc.— Collins and Harlan.
2142 Lass From the County Mayo—Baritone,
orch. acc.— Owen J. McCormack.
2144 —From Maine to Oregon March —
New York Military Band.
23182—Nora—Tenor, orch. acc. —
Patrick Hughes.
23183 —I’m Going Away—Comic Song, orch.
ace. Billy Merson.
23184 —All Roads Lead to Bonnie Scotland —
Comic Song, orch. acc.—Daisy Taylor.
23186 —My Girl From the Emerald Isle-
Baritone, orch. acc.— Jack Charman.
23187—0 Flower of All the World-
Tenor, orch. acc.— Hughes Macklin.
23188 —Secrets —Intermezzo—
London Concert Orchestra.
23189 —Let’s Pretend We’re Married—Comic
Duet, orch. acc.—
Daisy Taylor and Jack Charman.
23191—Mr. .John Mackenzie —Comic Song, orch.
acc. Billy Williams.
23193—Forget-Me-Not—Tenor, orch. acc.—
Charles Compton.
23195—The Bullfighter’s March—
National Military Band.
These goods carry the usual Edison endorsement—that is. we guarantee them td be
perfect in manufacture, and not to have any mechanical defects. ;
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale Only), 364=372 Kent Street, Sydney.
SIEMENS
“Association”
CABLES
and Flexible Wire.
Made at
Woolwich, ENGLAND.
The Quality of our Vulcanised India-rubber
Wires and Cables is guaranteed by the fadt that
they are made in accordance with the standards
of the British Cable Makers’ Association, of
which we are members.
Large Stocks
—__ Just Landed.
REDUCED PRICES.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo
Works Limited,
59 William Street, 42 Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY.


KODAK
Holidays Have
No Last Day.
Two friends saton the wharf, the last day of their holidays.
“Well ! we've had a jolly time," said the first man. “To-morrow, vunse luck,
we must go back again to the same old round. In a few weeks we shall forget all out
good times. Our precious holiday is over and done with. It seems like sheet waste .
“Speak for yourself," said the other. “My holiday has not been throw n awav.
Here in my Kodak I shall carry home all our happy days. You have nothing to
show for your holiday —hut, of course, a holiday without a Kodak is a holiday
wasted.”
Don’t Waste Your Holidays
This Year Take a Kodak.
Remember, you can learn to use a Kodak in half
an hour. There are Kodaks from 30/- up to
£l4/12/6. Here are two:
No. 3 FOLDING POCKET KODAK—take* pic-
tures 4*4 x 3% inches—the popular quarter-
plate size. Excellent rapid rectilinear lens,
Kodak ball-bearing shutter, £3/12/6.
Xo. 3A FOLDING POCKET KODAK —takes pic-
tures 5Yz x 3 inches —the popular postcard
size. Double-combination, rapid rectilinear
lens, Kodak automatic shutter, £5/2/6.
BROWNIES, for the children, at all prices from
5/- up to 50/-
Ask for the latest Kodak Catalogue.
KODAK (Australasia) LTD
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop. Ltd.
SYDNEY: 379 George Street.
MELBOURNE: “The Block,” 284 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 37 Bundle Street.
BRISBANE: 250-252 Queen Street.
TOOWOOMBA : Ruthven Street.
TOWNSVILLE : Flinders Street.
ROCKHAMPTON : Denham Street.
BROKEN HILL: 346 Argent Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z. : Dixon Street.
AUCKLAND, N.Z. : 3 Lome Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. : 76 Stuart Street.
A Holiday
without a Kodak
is a Holiday
Wasted.
>3*
O
The Australian War kSong
Dedicated to the Australian
'.8 R ft
Expeditionary Force*
TRALIA
AU
Words by FRANK JOHNSTONE.
Music by ROBERT JOHNSTONE.
Copyright
We’re from the land of gum trees, where the sun is mighty hot,
Where the ’possum and the kangaroo reside ;
From the far-back country and from many a lonely spot,
Where vou have to know your way without a guide.
From the land of tea and damper, from the forest and the plain,
We have come to help our kindred in the war , .
Because their blood, and ours, too, is of the same old strain
It’s British, and we don’t ask any more.
We can rough it with the hardest when the grub is getting thm.
And we’ll take our whack of hardship with the best ;
And when it comes to lighting we will take a big look m
We’ll be handy, very handy, to the rest.
We are lively in the saddle, and we all hang on like ginc.
And we’re'all a trifle handy with the gun;
But, beyond it all’s a feeling, it’s in ns through and through.
That each and every one is Britain s son.
We offer to our country our services and lives,
And that’s as much as any man can give;
It's hard to oart from parents, from sweethearts and from wives,
And go where it’s so mighty bad to live.
The girls we leave behind ns won’t forget ns when away,
Though many of us never will come hack ;
Their loving words will cheer ns through many a weary day
When facing bullets on the Belgian track.
Then here’s to “King and Country,” boys, to good old Britain’s Isle,
To all her bully hoys from every clime ; .
The lads who want no pressing, who go forward with a smile,
And face the music gamely every time!
And here’s"to bright Australia, our sunny home so dear;
Good luck to all the friends who were so kind.
We’ll try to keep our end up, and in the charging cheer
Be sure Australia won’t lie far .behind !
Chorus. —For Britain! good old Britain 1
Where our fathers first drew breath,
We’ll fight like true Australians,
Facing danger, wounds or death.
With Britain’s other gallant sons
We’re going hand in hand;
Our War-cry “Good old Britain.” hoys.
- Our own dear motherland.
BUTTONS Proprietary Limited
290-202 EourKe Street, Melbourne
Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong
And GORDON 8 GOTCH, Melbourne,
Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane 8 Perth.
Price 6d.
Posted
7d.
Storekeepers—Wholesale Rates.


USE
KYNOCH
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
A Simple Recipe for Clearing
the Complexion.
Exposure to hot winds and sun makes the
nerves and muscles of the face tired and life-
less, and the skin shrivelled, wrinkled and
unhealthy.
If anyone with a sallow, blotchy, wrinkled
or pimply complexion will only take a little
trouble in following the directions here given
they will find a marvellous improvement in
their complexion. Get some Puritol Wax
from the chemist or draper, and apply at
night, washing off in the morning with warm
water and soap. Then lap a little cold
water 10 times upon the face with the hands,
allowing it to get thoroughly round the
closed eyes. The treatment should be fol-
lowed out in every detail to ensure success,
and undoubtedly accounts for many of the
clear complexions so much admired by those
who do not yet know the secret. See that
you get the right kind, it will not injure the
most delicate complexion.*
£ss
CIXTY YEARS of History
“ have proved the
HOWARD Watch.
In more than otic hundred and fifty highly-
specialised occupations, Howard Time is a ruling
factor.
Call and see the Watch or send for the Illus-
trated Booklet.
PROUDS LTD., Jewellers,
Sole Representatives, 187 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
POLITICAL
POINTS
[Signed by deputy, and in the hopes that the Law
wont notice the difference, the actual perpetrator
bung temporarily blind or thereabouts.—S H
I Rior, 214 Ceorge-street, Sydney.]
A war item of the week was the Czar’s
announcement that he would enter Berlin
even if it cost him his last soldier. Here-
abouts is a subject for a picture. It would
show the last German and the last Russian
killing each other at the entrance to the
Unter den Linden, while the Czar and his
maiden aunt marched proudly down the
great avenue into the empty city—the city of
the dead.
The size and swallowing capacity of the
conquering Bear were nicely indicated in a
two-line cable message of last week. This
was the hurried testimonial:—
mi,„ t> ■ London, Monday Afternoon.
The Russians are spreading west of Lembero-
engulfing other Austrian fortresses. g ’
Isn’t “engulfing” a beautiful word? And
how many fortresses and cities will the
Lear need to engulf before its tremendous
appetite is satisfied? No wonder that Ger-
man ambassador shook like a wet dog when
he ambassed the calamitous ultimatum that
roused the sleeping animal.
Ihe people who pray for peace or rain
or other blessings are a curious crowd It
was announced in the United States on
September 9 that October 4 was set apart
as a day when prayer was to be offered up
01 the cessation of the war. During the
intermediate 25 days men would be
slaughtered, women turned into widows,
“ ade fatherless, cities and towns
crops burned, and all manner of horrors
I cipetrated. Now, if there was any real
i '“L P™y® r > J vh -V didn’t all the churchy
hosts °f Uncle Sam pray on September 5,
and thus save 24 days of devastation?
Cabled that a certain Professor Hale,
“one _of the leading educationalists of
America,” believes the United States should
declare war against Germany. The United
States has an ill-disciplined force of about
00,000 men. .Tolfre and co., rushing to the
front, would tread on the thing, mistaking
it for a mosquito.
If the Australian Labor party’s streak of
luck at next election is as notable as the one
it has just enjoyed, the last Liberal will
vanish out of politics about 1017. Then it
is to be hoped the Caucus will be abolished,
anil the Ministry be elected openly by a joint
sitting of the two Houses. The only excuse
for the. Caucus is that it is advisable to keep
the deliberations of the party a secret from
its opponents. When there are no opponents
wliat reason is there for secrecy?
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Andrew Fisher is busy forming his third
Federal Ministry, which is the tenth Minis-
try Australia has had in 14 years. Also, it
is the fourth Labor Ministry. Alfred Dealcin,
like Fisher, ran three Governments. The
other men—Barton, Watson, Cook and the
double-barrelled Reid-McLean had one turn
apiece. In Cook’s case it was clearly one
turn too many, but the country could have
stood another spell of Deakin, if only because
he is such a perfect gentleman.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Liberalism did itself a bad turn in Vic-
toria when it decided not to oppose Janies
Mathews for Melbourne Ports. The Liberal
idea undoubtedly was that, if Mathews were
returned unopposed, the Ports vote for the
senate would be comparatively small. The
local Labor organisation regarded this Lib-
eral strategem as a challenge and got busy
in a remarkable manner. Prior to the elec-
tion Mathews addressed frequent meetings,
as though he were contesting the seat with
an opponent, and his supporters worked
among the electors on the same principle.
Un polling-day motor-cars and vote-getting
vehicles of all descriptions swarmed through-
out the electorate, while armies of can-
vassers took the division street by street
and sucked it dry of Labor voters. The
result of these tactics was that the Ports’
vote was a record for the Commonwealth.
Drank llentv, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
FOR HIS COUNTRY'S SAKE!
....There was a long discussion, but eventually- the
Council accepted the Assembly’s amendments and
decided not to insist on its own amendments. The
Hill, therefore, has passed both Houses in practically
its original form. —Daily paper.
Victoria's political fat boy falls into line at
last—but rather reluctantly.
The suspension habit is becoming very
strong in these days of war and calamity.
Among other things it is proposed to suspend
the rents of the unemployed Government
tenants in the Rocks area of Sydney, to do
a similar suspension at Dacey ville; to sus-
pend the awards of the N.S.W. Wages
Boards ; to suspend the building of the capi-
tal at Dryberra ; and to suspend increments
in the Public Service. It is also suggested
in some quarters that all work on the N.
Territory railway should be suspended.
Leans have taken the matter in their own
hands and suspended themselves. In fact
everything will soon be suspended except the
importing craze.
[James Edmond, 214 Ceorge-street, Sydney.]
“Moana” from Maoriland :
The recent yelp to have the Maoriland general elec-
tion postponed indefinitely appears likely to end in
noise only. The Government is very much against
the proposal, feeling that this period of Imperial
activity is Massey's opportunity. The Opposition
feels the same way, and so it is rushing round with
petitions demanding that the election be postponed
“until after the war is over.” In the name of
.Heaven, why? We may all be dead before the war
is over. Wars have been known to last a hundred
years. This rush to take a half day off to witness
the European mix-up is wearisome. Of course those
in the House of Reps, who know they are going out
on their ears want to put off the day of dis-
aster. They are anxious to go on drawing £3OO
per annum a little longer, but Maoriland doesn't feci
inclined to oblige them. Having waited three years
to hit some of them with an axe it is anxious to get
to the job.
ENCOURAGING NEWS..
Labor has won the elections Australia must
now endure Labor rule, in addition to the war
scourge and the drought scourge, etc., etc.
—Melbourne Argus.
The event will be seized upon by the
Umpire’s enemies as the basis of further lies about
the loyalty of the Dominions. The German neople
will, in all probability, be told that the Australian
Government has been put out of office for promising
troops to assist the Mother Country.
—Sydney TELEGRAPH..
THE SAME OLD FOREIGNER: “ Only a small
item; but every little cheers and helps us
on .”
[Done by Edward Colles, Belgrave-street, Manly,
N.S.W.]
‘‘Palace of Peace”: When the last rifle
has been discharged and all the treaties have
been written out afresh on flimsy paper, I
suppose the surviving kings and emperors
will once more start the useless old game of
appointing one another colonels-in-chief and
idmirals. The Kaiser showed how he valued
his foreign complimentary honors when he
(this is the cable, mind!) sold his British
decorations and ordered his officers to do
likewise. If these things have any value at
all they should only be conferred on persons
of undoubted respectability who are not
likely to enter into rash speculations, be-
come hard up, and pawn them.
Willy Watt is now entitled to rank with
Wolsey, Lucifer and other victims to their
own ambitions. Watt resigned the Vic-
torian Premiership and graciously accepted,
amidst a tumult of protest, the safe Federal
seat of Balaclava, in the full confidence of
a Fusion victory, and a place for himself
in a reconstructed Cook Cabinet. But.
alas, he is now condemned to the chilly
obscurities of Opposition—-luckily for his
health. lie has been Postmaster-General,
Treasurer and Minister of Labor, and twice
Premier-Treasurer. So perhaps a rest will
do him good.
[B. J. 11. Owns, 10S Albert-street, East Melbourne.]
The spots of the tame Freetrader and the
useless importer may be changed, but they
won’t wipe off. Thus Sydney Telegraph,
which brays for the futile animals (4/9/14) :
Anri it may be that in a couple of years hence
our very pencils will be branded “Made in Rhode
Island,” or “Made in Ceylon,” instead of “Made in
Bavaria.”
What a relief to know that, if the worst
comes to the worst, the impotent, worthless
Australian can rely on the hand and brain
of the New Yark cheap-jack and the nigger
of India’s coral strand.
[John Barr, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
_ The Senate has a problem before it. The
Constitution provides that, at its first meet-
ing after a dissolution, the Federal Upper
House shall divide itself into two sections —
one timed to face the electors again at the
end of three years, the other being assured
of its salary for six.years. When the Senate
met for the first time, in 1901, it selected
the last three on the polling lists in each
State to face the executioner first. But the
election of a Liberal, Shannon, at the head
of the South Australian Senate list, on
the combined Labor and Liberal vote, may
be sufficient excuse for the caucus to depart
from the, precedent of 1901.
[IIarol]) Burston, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
Dead at 56, and interred at Wavirle”,
Sydney, last week, Frederick Squire Farnell,
sou of the late James Squire Farnell, Pre-
mier, and grandson of James Squire, a Firs!
Fleeter, who grew the first hops ard culti-
vated the pioneer brewery of Australia. As
a reward for hop-growing, the Governor gave
him a -cow from the Government herd.
Before he possessed the cow he had to be
self-contained and have beer with his
porridge.
King George's message to the
Governments of the self-governing
Dominions contains too many per-
sonal pronouns in the possessive"
ease. It is as though he were put-
ting himself in direct contradistinc-
tion to the Kaiser. “My whole
Empire,” “my voice,” “my King-
dom,” “my naval and military
forces.” “the calamitous conflict is
not of my seeking,” and so forth. A
constitutional king may be careful
enough to act constitutionally, but
lie can never think or talk of him-
self in a strictly constitutional way.
The circumstances of kingolatry
are too strong for him. The blessed
Anthem tells him that when the
Empire goes to war he is It. “Send
him victorious.”
Du list, of S.A. Assembly, made
a rather neat point at a meeting at
Greenock, in that State. Richard
Butler had been saying, in a
pleasant, patronising way, that the
many German-extraction residents
of that neighborhood could be
trusted to be loyal Australians.
“Certainly they can,” said Duhsl.
innocently. “The last British am-
bassador to Berlin, Goschen, is but
a naturalised Englishman. The
First Sea Lord, Louis of Batten-
berg, is another.” And Duhst
might have added that King
George’s own mother was a Dane naturalised
i o Britain, and his father’s father was a
German ditto, and his grandmother’s grand-
father’s grandfather reigned as George the
First of England without being able to speak
the English language at all.
“Quidam’s” eulogy :
Arthur Picard, librarian at the Mechanics’ Insti-
tute, Stawell (Vic.), who has just died, made some
history in his time. lie was wounded in the Franco-
Prussian war; picked up by a German ambulance as
a hopeless case; but recovered, and was returned on
parole. He proceeded to Ireland, and formed the
Irish Ambulance Corps. When the town of Chateaudun
surrendered to the Prussians a German soldier was
shot on the altar steps of a local church, whereupon
\on Wittich, the German general, demanded 20,000
francs, or threatened a second bombardment. Picard
paid 5000 francs from his own pocket, and persuaded
the German general to institute an inquiry, which
proved that the soldier had been accidentally shot
by his own revolver. This gained him a decoration
and a memorial in Chateaudun. Later on, he was
sentenced to death for having transported arms from
dead and wounded French soldiers through the Ger-
man lines. However, the slaughter never came off.
He earned about a do/.en decorations, and perhaps the
worst stroke of luck in a fortunate life was his death
at a time when there seems every chance of his
country avenging the crosses it endured in his youth.
COUP DE MAIN.—(A BOLD EFFORT.)
President Wilson, in a proclamation, calls upon
the people of the United States to pray for peace
in Europe. He has fixed October 4 as a day of
prayer.— Cable.
THE BIRD OF PEACE : “ Lei’s all pray.”
The beautiful ,T. H. B. Coates, general
manager of the National Bank of M.L.
for the last 21 years, is about to retire and
go in pursuit of a well-earned rest. He
has spent 46 years in the service of
the company, and it is mainly owing to
his energies as g.m. that the institution
has attained its present satisfactory posi-
tion. An effort was made to induce him
to remain on the bridge a little longer, for
men with his wide knowledge of finance are
of value just now; but Coates, who is 63,
shook his head. He will probably go on
the board of directors.
CHANTY.
(For use principally on jerry-steamers and horse-
punts.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ho! the owners took a tumble,
And they chucked the skipper out;
His bundle’s down the gangway,
His ticket’s up the spout.
But we’re not going to sling the ship
A-spite of Nan and Flo,
So man the capstan bars, you blokes,
And: “So-long, Joe!”
His bos’n’s name was Irvine.
We called him Freezin’ Bill :
You couldn’t meet him on the deck
Without you caught a chill.
And when with cold sou’-easter gales
The time was ripe for rum,
He handed lemon water out,
Which turned the “innards” numb.
We all was hard junk whaling men
Who’d signed for grounds afar,
Me pottered round the bloomin’ bay
And never crossed the bar.
And if we chipped him, askin’ when
He’d turn her beak to sea,
He’d snarl inside his whiskers,
And he’d talk of mutiny.
The owners came aboard of us ;
Says they: “M r ell, what's the catch ?”
For any blinded old excuse
The skipper had to scratch.
“The crew was such a rotten lot
I never left the bay.”
Moll, strike us pink!” the owners said.
“Come orf and draw your pay!”
They sent another skipper on.
We’d sailed with him afore.
He’s not the sort to funk a bar
Or hug a ti-tree shore,
So walk her round and heave her up,
There’s grub and grog to spare.
M iHi Andy Fisher at the helm
We’ll sail for We-don’t-care.
It’s Billy Hughes is bos’n now,
We’ve sailed with William, too.
He is the queerest little cuss
That ever wind blew through.
He cocks his head just like an owl,
And, love us ! what a tongue !
When Billy passes compliments
You’d wish that you was hung.
But William knows the whalin’ tricks
(And many is the same),
There isn't much to teach to him
About the deep-sea game.
And if the whalin’ season's slack,
He tries the trawlin’ ground.
When Billy throws his bit of bait
Yer know (here’s somethin’ ’round.
So heave, he3'-ho ! and mind your eye,
The mud-hook’s showing out,
Her boko’s pointed to the sea—-
It’s there the big game spout.
So, ho revo to Nan and Flo,
And one, two, three for a last heave-ho.
But you was a rotten skipper,
So it’s, “Good-bye, Joe!'


Y"y
* 4X
IHIM
ft
\ V
<KM»K£
f»4j
>*4i
yis
■r v
"HIS MASTER'S VOICE” Gramophones
Music in the open air adds a new interest to life. To hear the glorious
notes of Melba, or Caruso’s matchless voice, across the water or in the
open country, is to find something entirely new and fascinating.
ACCREDITED DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Pen
The Self-filling
Safety Fountain
re
-
' -'Kv
LIGHT CAR
ihXALCOTT
9 9
(“ Australian Model de Luxe ”)
THE LIGHT CAR FOR AUSTRALIA.
Australian conditions demand certain modifications in Motor-car design,
and that fact caused us to send a special representative to the “CALCOTT”
Factory in England. We submitted the first Car received by us to exhaustive
tests under these conditions, and we are pleased to say that it fulfilled our
utmost expectations. The “CALCOTT’ is not only a car of beautiful design
and of the finest material and workmanship, but is emphatically The Car
for Australia.
READ THIS SPECIFICATION:
Horse Power —12. (R.A.C. rating, 11.3).
Number of Cylinders—Four.
Hore and Stroke —65 x 110 m.m.
Ignition—“ Bosch” Variable, Waterproof
Magneto.
Carburetter —“Zenith.”
Lubrication—Force-feed by gear-driven
Oil Pump.
Cooling—Thermo Syphon (Extra-large
Radiator).
Transmission —Bevel and Cardan Shaft
(strong differential).
Speeds—Three forward and one reverse.
Gate change.
Position of Gear Box —On sub-frame in
centre of Chassis.
Steering—Worm and Sector.
Petrol Tank —In Scuttle Dash.
Clutch —Leather to Metal Cone.
Engine Control —Bracket carrying Con-
trol is stationary above steering
wheel; a FOOT ACCELERATOR in-
dependent of and in conjunction with
hand lever is also fitted.
Brakes —Foot and Hand, internal and
independent, expanding on rear
wheels.
Springs—Half elliptic.
Frame —Pressed Steel.
Wheels —Sankey’s Detachable (including
spare wheel with tyre and tube).
Tyres —Dunlop TOO x SO m.m.
Wheel Base —Tft. 6iu.
Track— 3ft. 9in.
Extreme width of Complete Car—lft. Oin.
Extreme length of Complete Car —10ft.
3in.
Weight of Complete Car —lllcwt.
Clearance —Slin.
The Body is beautifully finished, upholstered in best English leather, painted
buff and lined to match. xVttaehed is a very efficient Cape Hood, a Screen
with single joint and brass finish. Valances also are fitted.
PRICE: Including Acteylene Head Lights and Generator; Electric Side and
Tail Lights; Accumulator: Hood: Wind-screen Horn; Spare Wheel, Tyre
and Tube; Pump; Jack; Kit of Tools; Number Board,
We can give Immediate Delivery from Stock. PRICES GREATLY REDUCED.
INVINCIBLE MOTOR CONSTRUCTION CO. LIE.
TELEPHONE:
CITY 3528.
Showrooms: 35 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BOORS ON
Building Construction
These books are written by technical experts, and
offer practical suggestions of material value,
DOUBLE POSTAGE RATES TO NEW ZEALAND,
PRICE
Post Free.
The Australian Builders and Contractors’ Price Book, 1914,
enlarged edition and very much improved, illustrated and arranged alphabetically
by C. E. Mayes 10/2
Building Construction for Beginners, by J. w, Riley, urn. 300 pages,
well illustrated 3/2
Building Construction Drawing, an elementary class book. 20 plates. By
R. B. Eaton, 1914 3/9
Building Supervision, by Geo. w. Grey, 1913 3/2
Australian Building Practice, 380 pages, by James Nangle 10/9
• Rivington’s Notes on Building Construction, in 4 Volumes. Most
valuable Books. The set, of 4 32/0
Masonry Construction, approved American practice, by Phillips and Byrne.... o/3
Practical Stonecutter and Mason’s Assistant 2/7
Building Construction, advanced and elementary, by .John Wilson 3/8
Building Construction, comprising notes on Materials, Processes, Principles
and Practice, by Prof. Henry Adams, with 2346 illustrations and 12 plates, 1913 9/8
Masonry, for Students and Apprentices, 1914, by Geo. Barham 3/2
Art of Building, by Edward Dobson 2/2
Quantities and Measurements, by Beaton 1/8
Bricklaying and Brickcutting, by Richards. 200 illustrations 4/8
Tredgold’s Carpentry, 500 pages. A valuable book with 48 engraved plates
of Roofs, Staging, Centres and Bridges 13/-
Building Specifications, by Leaning, for Architects, Surveyors, Builders.
140 illustrations 28/-
Estimating, a guide to sys'eiuatic methods in taking oil quantities, by E. Nichols ,5/3
The N.S.W. Building Manual, a handy compendium of Local Laws, as affecting
Architects, Builders and Property Owners, by E. 11. Tebbutt, 1912 5/2
Examination Work in Building Construction, by Henry Adams 3/2
Masonry and Stonecutting, by Dobson 2/8
Strength of Beams, Floors and Roofs, with directions for designing and
detailing Roof Trusses, with 104 engravings, by Frank E. Kidder 10/2
Concrete, Its uses in Building, from foundations to finish, by Potter. 138
illustrations 9/6
Cement, and How to Use It, hv Radford 5/3
Australian Bungalow and Cottage Homes Designs, 80 homes, from
£240 to £1250, illustrated with floor plans 3/10
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd.
476 George Street
(OPPOSITE QUEEN
VICTORIA MARKETS),
Sydney.
THE GIFT
par excellence !
This Gift will he appreciated most where Refinement is
the keynote. Probably yon ea>i easily call to mind a
happy young couple who fit this condition exactly; who
would keenly value your discernment and generosity.
a—
JMULi&u
02404. —Consists of Half-dozen Best-quality,
Silver-plated Fish Knives and Forks, in handsome
Case. Price
601-
Postage Paid on all Goods to any Address in Australia.
Illustrated Catalog Free on Request.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
f^^Jil.| l H,HH7T7J TrnTnrn7r


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
"" 1 _
Hsrvey s <Specio.l whisky
Sole AgentsRESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
INDISPENSABLE.
lady says siie would not be
WITHOUT A BOTTLE OF DB
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT BILLS IF
THEY COST HER LAST SIIILLINU.
“Some time ago I suffered a severe ner-
vous breakdown. I cannot describe the
symptoms, but I know I was in a most
dreadful state of hfealth,” writes Mrs. R.
Clarke, of 385 Cardigan Street, Carlton, Vic’
A friend persuaded me to try Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, which I did. The re-
lief was almost instantaneous, and after a
course of some months I am pleased to say
they restored me to almost perfect healtli.
In addition I had suffered nearly all my life
from Biliousness and Sick Headaches,
which since the use of your pills I rarely
have an attack of, and then only in a mild
form. I beg to thank you very much for
all the benefits derived from the use of the
pills; in fact, I would not be without a
bottle in the house if they cost me the last
shilling I possessed. I am sending you this
from sheer gratitude. You may ' publish
this if you so desire.”
The above testimonial, written in a simple,
convincing manner, is only one among manv
of those received from people who have
derived the greatest benefit from taking Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Many of these
people had tried other so-called remedies
until they had despaired of getting any bene-
fit whatever. No other medicine, whether
it be pill or tablet, liquid or solid, has ever
been so universally and successfully used
by all classes of the community, both rich
and poor. They are not advertised as a
great “Cure-All,” but as a safe, sure and
reliable remedy for the little ills of life, for
which they are unexcelled.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Tlie i 'turn scrap between Les Darcy and
Fritz Holland at Sydney Stadium'on Saturday night
found t.ie Maitland blacksmith a much-improved
boxer, and all the skill and ring generalship of Fritz
Holland could r.ot prevail against his youthful vim.
lie revelled in the battle. Holland drove some
terrific rights on to his dial in the first round, but
Darcy regarded them as so much thistledown.
Although there was practically no difference in their
weights, Holland scaling list. 1 Jib. to Darcy’s list.
3Jib., the Australian was much the stronger of the
two, and he could hit about twice as hard as his
lighter-looking opponent. His chief trouble was over-
eagerness. He went berserk, and gave the wary
American chances. Holland started out with the
deliberate intention of closing up the hostile army’s
left eye, and twice he got on to it with the right
and made it bulge considerably. Later on he cut it,
but-the optic was never put out of action, and when
Holland tried to besiege the right eye, he had no luck.
Darcy, by the way, has developed considerable agility
with his head, and the way he flung it about, over
his shoulder, or down between his knees, or under
his arm caused Holland to miss badly and frequently.
It was a splendid battering match, and they slogged,
both of them, with all their souls-and both their
hearts. Had -Darcy been quicker he would have scored
a knock-out early in the fight, for so great was his
force and his imperviousness to punishment that
Holland’s straight left could not keep him off, and
the light-footed Yankee had to back and side-step to
get away from the bull-like rushes. There were times
when Darcy’s head was knocked right back with the
speed of his own arrival when Holland met him with
the left. But Holland’s luck was right out. He
made many attempts, but never succeeded in meeting
those bovine charges with one on the point. Darcy’s
mouth was always in the way, and Darcy didn’t seem
to mind what he got on'the mouth. Holland required
a horseshoe in his glove as a mascot. And it wasn’t
there. He fought a clever, cool fight, but he was
being steadily walloped and over-pointed. When,
suddenly, Darcv went mad, or became blind in his
wild eagerness. He had piled up a considerable
margin pf points when he commenced to hit low.
Blow after blow landed below the belt, and once, duck-
ing, he swung his head into Holland’s stomach.
Once Holland.was down from what was certainly an
illegal blow, which hurt him considerably, and his
courage and grit in getting up and seeing the round
through made him the popular hero. Darcy lost his
friends in one brief minute. Although warned by the
referee he whaled into Holland, and, utterly reckless
of where and how he hit, roughed and hustled Holland
across the ring, hurled him on to the ropes, hit him
10 times simultaneously, fell upon him, stepped back
and swung another foul blow —and was disqualified.
And 'he richly deserved it.
A crowd of 10.000 at Sydney Cricket
Ground watched the final of the Rugby League’s com-
petition for the City Clip. It, was a dull, miserable
afternoon of dirty grew and the Cricket Ground was
not the most comfortable place on earth. But the
enthusiasm of the contending teams sent a warm
breath over the bleak landscape. The high contending
parties were Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney, and
they seemed so evenly matched, and both so sound
in defence that the game threatened to end in a score-
less draw. Neither side notched a point in the first
half. East was hard pressed at the opening of the
second half, but eventually managed to clear the
line, and following up with a counter charge broke
through and seored amidst tremendous excitement.
Messenger failed to add the extra points. Again East
scored, and once more the wind blew Messenger’s kick
wide. Then South came on the wings of the wind,
scored and converted a try, and East was six to five.
The excitement became intense, and South, which had
won the premiership, made desperate efforts to win
the double. Rushing down the field the team, with
the hands of the clock trembling to the moment, fed
Hallett, and right on the moment he kicked for goal.
It fell short, and as it curved downward and struck
the earth, the whistle blew, ard Eastern Suburbs had
won by a margin of one point.
In tlie Union division the excitement
centred around the struggle between North Svdnev
and Western Suburbs for the supremacy of the “B”
division of the First-Grade Competition'. North Svd-
ney astonished tlie natives, itself and everyone else by
the way it got over the formidable Western team,
which never had a dog’s chance. It was stamped flat,
rolled in the dirt, and jumped upon by 13 to three.
Had West secured a draw or a victory it would have
had the honors ; hut a defeat left the two sides dead
level in the competition, and a deciding battle will
be played off next Saturday.
* * ‘ * *
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Randwick
(N.S.W.) on Saturday last is regarded as being
equal to the best. About 30,000 people were present.
There were 122 starters for the £3OOO added money
put up by the club, and some of them came from
Victoria, Queensland and Maoriland. The course
being good the racing was fast and apparently clean.
The only fly in the marmalade was the fall of three
horses in the steeple, but as neither riders nor horses
were seriously hurt that little incident probably added
to the excitement. Not a single owner or jockev
scored a double event, so the prize-money was well
distributed, if the betting monev was not. In the
Novice Handicap the chestnut four-vear-old Speed-
fast, starting at nine-to-two against, stamped his
way to the front at the tail end of time, and won
easily by four lengths, having cut out the six fur-
longs in lmin. 14see. The Tramway Handicap was
•a joyful circumstance for the man who imagines he
can pick winners. In this case the public splosh went
Jargelv on Royal Laddie at threes, with Gigandra next
best-liked at sixes. The Laddie went to the front
early, and the c-hances looked all against his ability
to stay there, but he did it, beating off Tofua, Amata
anu Gigandra in tbat order, and winning by a neck
in lmin. 26?ee. for the seven furlongs. The gilded
plum of the meeting, the Chelmsford Stakes, lured °2
starters with its swag of £lOOO added monev. The
sweepstake amounted to £220. Again the pickers of
horses were in luck. After piling their coin on
VYoorak at five to four against, they had Hie satis-
faction of watching that noble neddie shake all others
off and romp home two and a half lengths from
Mountain hnight, with the exhausted Ravello third
Moorak had covered the nine furlongs in lmin!
52,sec This victory (a weight-for-age event) makes
. .f.,' something more than a possi-
bility in the corning Derbies, for the win was accom-
plished i A stylish company, and the opposition included
no less than 10 other Derby candidates. Also, the
colt humped a seven-pound penalty, and won con-
vincingly with something in reserve, up his sleeve
as they say in the classics. The boil-over of the meet-
ing was the triumph of St. Spasa in the Spring Handi-
cap, a mile and a quarter spasm worth 600 added
sovereigns, for which Lochano started favorite at
fours, with Limelight second favorite at sevens. Evi-
dently the man with the hag knew something, and
so did the punters, when the 33 to one chance, St.
Spasa, came round the outside and beat Firm and
Pongo, winning from Firm by half a neck. A most
spectacular finish, but a disastrous one for the public.
And so was the Welter, though not quite so bad.
It fell to the 10-to-one-ehance Giru, while Kings-
burgh carried the public swag at threes. Still, take
it all round, the punter had an elysian time com-
pared to his usual experiences.
There was wild excitement- in Sydney
lawn tennis circles last Saturday, when the Eastern
Suburbs team, which had come through the prelimi-
naries and ali the semi-final stages without a single
check, came to a regular Lemberg at Double Bay.
Sydney I. defeated the so-far-victorious team by 11
sets to five. It was terrific.
The chief excitement among the followers
of Soccer in Sydney on Saturday was the inter-
national struggle, Australia versus England, at the
ancient Eppifig ground. It was a one-sided affair, in
which Australia, at half-time, led by two goals to
nil. During the second half the Australians added
three more while the struggling English team could
make only one. Australia therefore was victorious
dead easy with five goals to one. What the Soccer
game in Sydney requires is a conscientious and reli-
able press agent. The game is never adequately
described, neither is there any proper record given
of the progress of the various competitions, so that
it is quite impossible to get a coherent view of the
game as a whole. But it is the fault of the lords
ot the game. To report all the Soccer matches alone
would require an army of about 40 reporters on each
paper. The lords of the game should issue sum-
maries of the day’s casualties and a brief review of
the campaign as a whole.
* *• * * *
~N. S. Wales 25-miles’ walking ehampion-
•“Pft Parramatta on Saturday almost shook the
Ma State s old town off its axis. The event began
after the noon-day meal, and the competitors tore like
mad round and round the vehicular roadway that lies
in the shadow of the sometime Government House,
now a residential portion of the King’s School. Also,
that pleasant way winds through the shadow of the
substantial and commodious lunatic asylum and gaol
The event ranked second to that of the famed march
ot the Israelites in 1451 n.c., as recorded in Joshua
w., LO the ones who tramped around Jericho for
seven days, after which the walls fell down flat. The
oldest son of the oldest native quaked lest something
ot the sort should happen to Parramatta, but what
probably made the walls of Jericho fall flat was the
spectacle ot Hebrews walking continuously for seven
( a> s . It was enough to make anyone die with aston-
iditnent. Late wires report that Parramatta is still
intact. The event was exciting till the end of the
tenth mile, when N. McLaren went to the front in
decisive manner, and finally bolted and won by nine
minutes 53 seconds from S. Sheaves, who beat R.
Donohoe, by a further eight minutes 23 seconds.'
McLaren s time for the whole 25 miles was four
hours 11 minutes 42 seconds. Having seen the
gloi ions finish Parramatta • folded its arms and went
to sleep again.
The whole-hearted efforts of Les Darcy to
impair fritz Holland's digestive apparatus fail
to remove the latter’s serenity of expression ,
and in the end, earn Les's disqualification.
N.S.W. Amateur Athletic Association
roused a sleeping dog lust week, when it applied the
axe of disqualification to one of its adherents who
chose to play glittering League football in prefer-
ence to the decadent Union game. The A.A.A. is not
too popular at the present time, and the narrowing
oi. its ranks by reason of narrow prejudice is not
going to uplift it. At present professional athletes
can play Union football with impunity, and the
A.A A. doesn’t worry itself into tears over the
matter ; but if the desire of the A.A.A. is to perish
with Union football, it should not be long before its
materialises Both are on the slope that leads
to the Styx, and it is hard to stop any concern which
is tearing down-hill like the Gadarene swine
*
larger ?i'owd than last week
ir.-fi™ . exac * viewed the concussion of
L'ltzroi and Carlton in the Vic. Football League
semi-final, and mostly regretted the £l2BO 11s 3d
ofTf C fnl eCt £M l ? o a,(l i l At lpast the - v regretted most
ot it, foi 4031 9s. 3d. went to the Patriotic Fund
and was not exactly money paid in return for goods
supplied. _ ( arlton was all right, marking well lick-
ing straight and handling the ball cleanly and
cleverly. But ’Roy took the field with two semi-
invalids who presently became almost useless and
though some of its players hogged in vimfully the
dead weight of those two and the painful incom-
petence of ns forwards made the match a mere ioke
and a thing of no account. By half-time the Old
Blues were two goals to the good, and their superior-
ity was obvious. When they piled on 20 more points
m half as many minutes the game was as good as
over The Maroons rallied in the last few minutes
and turned the rout into a more or less disorderly
retreat, but the deadly inaccuracy of the men they
depended on to get the goals brought all their efforts
to naught. So they passed into third place, leaving
Carlton and South to battle out the final this coming
Saturday. Scores, Carlton, 62 points; ’Roy, 42. h
Consider the progress of Englishman
Ernest Barry, who is piling up quite a monument
of victories in the sculling world. In world’s and
English championships, the scalps of Dick Arnst,
Harry Pearce, Jim Paddon, Geo. Towns, Billy Fog-
well (all from Australia), E. Durnan (Canada), and
\V. Albany, have all fallen to him; but to the bank-
sitter it looketh as if the knowledge of every ripple
of the Thames is the principal factor in his success.
Dick Arnst has thrown to the subscribing public the
notification that he is prepared to again tackle
Barry if the public raise £5OO “expenses”—a sup-
porter having guaranteed the “stake money” of £5OO.
The burly Richard has been shifting superfluous
tissue during the past three months, and if his scull-
ing punch returns in the proposed race against Jim
Paddon, the necessary boodle to make the trip may
be forthcoming. Everything rests on that clash
these giants of professional sculling.
According to the coble Arthur Barry
backed out of some arrangement to allow Australian
sculler James Paddon expenses. Barry contended
that the intention to allow expenses was . made before
the war started, when there was a reasonable chance
of the victor raking in stacks and shoals of gate-
money. But when the Kaiser’s war-note blew off
things changed, and, apparently, the crowds who
would otherwise have followed the boat-race were
preparing themselves for a struggle in which all
parties help themselves to expenses and other things.
So Barry decided that the changed conditions altered
the case. Paddon is said to have been furious. How-
ever, he is returning to Australia by the P. & 0.
boat Medina, and the Maoriland sportsman, Seifert,
who stood behind him in England, is said to be will-
ing to find his stake-money for a match with Dick
Arnst, presumably on the Parramatta.
Melbourne Age says that “Edward Barry,
if not absolutely the best sculler that England has
produced, is certainly the most popular.” Which is
nonsense. Professional sculling went out of popularity
m England when Hanlan came along and made a
holy show of Trickett, who had previously beaten the
local Sadler. The popular idols of their successive
days were, firstly, Chambers; then Kelly, who beat
< hanibers; and, lastly, James llenforth, who beat
Kelly. These men in their turn had always beaten
American challengers for the world’s championship.
Renforth and Kelly went to America to row a pairs
match, but at the starting post Renforth fell back
and died of heart disease, in Kelly’s arms. The tragic
scene was sculptured, in bas relief, on a Renforth
memorial erected in his native town of Newcastle
(Eng.) Both men were easily better than Joe Sadler,
who became nominal champion only when Renforth
was dead and the veteran Kelly had retired. Barry
is Britain s first representative oarsmen in 35 vears
and. meanwhile, the sport has ceased to be a matter of
national interest, for the reason that national pride
can get no gratification from it.
* * * »
After being top dog of Maoriland Union
lor , an 36011 or so > the cow-spanking province
of Taranaki was utterly stoushed bv Wellington last
week—l 2 points to six. The men from the windy
Jru ? ra^> ! )e( t the Ranfurly Shield as a consequence,
ihe drunk in Wellington to celebrate the occasion
was something to sneeze over.
* *
* * *
, Club toeba 11 expired suddenly in Maori-
land when war looked over the horizon, and the hall-
booters made a hurried grab for rifles. In two days
the Canterbury Rugby Union’s Junior Competition
ceased to exist. The two leading teams that had been
causing all the excitement, Christchurch and Evttelton.
vanished. They were composed entirely of Terri-
torials and the first went into camp to get ready to
help the Empire in Europe, while the latter went to
tott i U ‘ e , f 01 o S .V 1 Lyttelton Harbor to help defend
TOIT land. So the bladder-chasing ended abruptly.
. nr m *? ea ■C° u M e Sculls championship
of _ N.S.W., inaugurated three vears ago, and won
rw*L 1 ar ™ cc .f/ sion by Miss Nellie Counsell and
George McDevitt, was again ’defended by the same
couple on the Iron Cove (Drummovne) course on
l3St i ™ IS time the stacking parties were
Miss Lily and Arthur Pearce, and they are a formid-
able combination. The defenders got the better
start and soon established a lead of about a length.
But the challengers came with a rush, and in about
200yds. overtook and passed the holders. That was
and ? f ., he ?' ld - Tt became a procession,
and fiom ihe bridge it looked as if Miss Counsel]
was tiring while in the other boat both scullers were
perfectly fresh, although they had made the some-
thing over the odds. They won bv four lengths in
lomin. 30sec. after a mile and half of rowing.
Swan”: The motor-car is about as
'T th t fishin^rod - Allen Doone.
actoi, etc., was in such a hurry to get to Perth that
on leaving the steamer at Albany, he sneered at the
railway and elected to a-o bv benzine vehicle. \t (lie
hour W tL P e° St ’ n- h ?i" f nn i™ alom at 50 miles an
f . ho oar shied at a ’roo and tried to climb a
tiee. A passenger, to whom Allen was kindly giving
111 V retu , rned t° Albany Hospital, but Alleif lihm
self Kicppedout 0 f the wreck intact even to the
cigarette held in his matinee teeth. The seat was
smashed under him, but he evinced no emotion The
steering-wheel was torn from his grasp, but he re
mamed calm. and when the bonnet turned round and
ThlrUT Z the UCP he , yawned out of sheer en,mi!
This cool fisherman—pardon, motorist—informed a
defenceless reporter that. i„ civilised countries he
lesi' S jldiabita'nU' ll rtf' \ °°i ,T, /. les . an hour - but the shift-
ies. ii habitants of Australia haven’t a road to their
name on which lie lias been able to get beyond 00
miles every 60 minutes. B e -’ ona yu
* # #
R. Oripps. of Newington College ('Svd-
nev) is an athlete of mom ire and somewhat of a
Refold iu- S ° rV ‘ the Col, ege sports last week
ll?o f i nn f i hlS „ e fo I J nder him 90 f «st that he gathered
the lOOvds., 220vds. and 440yds. and the running
broad jump. He also filled ' second place l n IS?
SSOvds. and 120yds. hurdles. In fact lf e almost
swallowed the programme. ’ 6 amo t
**» ' *
Sydney baseball put up the shutters on
the premiership struggle on Saturday, when Waver W
vard Tj tn°^th rC Vi w U ed bitter war in the latter’s back
>aid to the howling music of a record army of
ban-ackers and fanatics. 0,, the showing at Peter
sham a week previously, Leichhardt’s tail noin/ia
skywards when the team took the field. But Waverify
banged together four runs in its seeo-id innings and
down went Leichhardt’s tail till it railed fn tie
SS r 'Z ! , S‘,,r'£,,f,”T£ w
*• *B5
Sic ™r.?r mer “ WI loose on the
* < ' * * #
When this riot broke out in Europe the
Germans relied upon hue-e motor-trains w i •
in supnlies from the railhead to thL f bringing
SB Th«. trains S’)orTwh" ,V7h*«
land hems: one of o-ood Y , ' 0 le > the
according to Sunday’s cables the storiTof ITi But
out, the motor-trains were paralysed'
ammunition be-an to fail and i! d ’«T e , s,,pply of
Hon started. The British’force HmL?" backwarda-
also, but it had not m- Q +l, e rp ,n lan ce has trains
aeegee altogether, ’in the h Yatter\f h T lrded !!' e
Entente is far better off tw +£. / boraes the
alliance. Russia has 35 000 onn^ 6 ro *^ erman
3.200.000 and
total of 40.200.000. Germany has 4 iirnor, 0 ’ A
Austria 4,158.000, a total oi lea thanVmomO
- »«•siX.ooS
Steve Barker, who is second on the
Senate poil m Victoria, is the only member
of the Parliamentary Labor party who per-
sistently refuses to wear a tie. Instead he
favors a neat, ungaudy spring-stud, boldly
of C whiskers WO behind a c sS
[Frank Henty, Glen Iris, Victoria.]
B.” : Foreign ships were held strictly to
good behavior in Port Jackson when Gover-
nor ilnllip reigned at the Tank Stream,
lie set apart a space of the harbor where
they could anchor without being a menace
to the settlement. That place he considered
tar enough away to afford the settlers
advantages if need for hostilities should
arise. He described it as a large bay, with
great depth of water; had it surveyed and
sounded, and christened it Neutral Bay.
Thither all foreigners were to be towed and
there kept until their business in the port
was finished.
When “Charlie” McGrath was suspended
by the order of Joe Cook, it was freely
stated that one of the first acts of the next
Labor majority would be the expunging of
the suspension motion from the records of
the House. But McGrath won’t hear of it.
'lhere is more important business facing
us,” he says. “Let the. motion stand. It
will hurt the Fusion crowd more than it ever
worried me.”
[Morgan McDonnell Fay, Raglan-strect, Ballarat,
Victoria.]
Mrs. Elizabeth Muter, who died in Eng-
land in July, was well known in Maoriland.
Her husband, Colonel I). D. Muter, was one
of Canterbury’s earliest settlers. He went
through the Indian Mutiny and the Chinese
war. Mrs. Muter accompanied her hus-
band on active service, went through the
Mutiny, was present at the siege and cap-
ture of Delhi, was at the occupation of
Tientsin, and is said to have been the first
Englishwoman to visit Peking. After her
career of adventure she employed her time
in writing two good books: “Travels in
Maoriland, India and China,” and “Itecoh
lections of the Sepoy Ilevolt.”
Shannon, who headed the Senate poll in
S. Australia, should get a pension or a medal
or a portfolio or something of the sort, as
the only man whom practically everybody in
his State voted for. He was on both tickets,
for when McGregor died the Laborites had
to adopt the most promising of their oppo-
nents. ■ So Shannon, being compelled to be
all things to all men, may be described as
an Orange Pope from Belfast, or a Quaker
Napoleon, or a submarine aeroplane or auv
other contradiction. It would be a good
idea to make him Government representative
in the Senate, and also leader of the Opposi-
tion and President and Sergeant-at-Arms,
and likewise send him to London as Tali
Commissioner.
[James Edmond, 214 George-street, Sydney.]
A defunct soldier :■ —
Colonel Charles Fyshe Roberts, who died at Double
Tlay, Sydney, last week, aged 76, was son of Captain
Charles Roberts, of the 59th Regiment. His mother
was a Hornsby, and his wife a Goulburn Bradley.
He entered the Artillery in January, 1853, served in
the Crimea from March, 1855, and was wounded at
Sebastopol. Eater, he saw service in India in com-
mand of artillery under Colonel Gawler. Was men-
tioned by the Governor-General, and raised to be a
brevet-major. For three years in the mid-sixties
he was at Dawes Point Barrack (Sydney) in charge
of a battery of artillery, and acted for a time as
pi irate secretary and A.D.C. to Governor Young. In
1871 Roberts sold his commission and became Acinio-
- to the Agent-General, Charles - Cowper
( Slippery Charley ). The year 1576 found him in
command of the N. S. Wales Artillery and second in
command of the Forces. In 1892 he was appointed
Under-Secretary to the newly-established Defence
Department.
“R. 8.” revives some business memories :
Died at Melbourne, William Weatherly, whose
house at Brighton (Billilla) recalls Billilla sta-
tion, which he partnered with Chirnside before
Bowes Kelly’s purchase of a fourteenth of Broken
Hill put him on Easy-street. Sid Kidman had left
a dozen bullocks or so at Mt, Gipps, and McCulloch
gave him orders to remove them. Kidman couldn't
find a buyer with money, but lie found Sam Poole
with a fourteenth of Broken Hill, and Sam Poole
traded the fourteenth for the bullocks. Kidman hastened
_P a i r f w ifb the interest in Rasp's “mountain of
tin” in the horse paddock, and left it for sale with
Harris and Deiiger, brokers, of Silverton. Bowes
Kelly, representing Weatherly, George Kelly, and
another and himself, bought the fourteenth for £l5O.
dhe party didn’t think this a very splendid pur-
chase, but it held on; and the fourteenth, representing
1000 shares in the original 10,000-share company,
moved up in value to a million. Weatherly was'a
genial, kindly soul, and money didn’t spoil him.
The bullocks that Kidman traded to Poole are cer-
tainly dead by this time. Everything dies sooner or
later, and one of these days Broken Hill will be a
large, silent hole in the earth, with nothing in it
but a vacuum and some intervals in the atmosphere.


BUILD UP YOUR STRENGTH
and IMPROVE YOUR HEALTH
a
It is natural for you to be healthy
—-but you cannot retain your natural
healthy state unless you aid Nature
by keeping your system thoroughly
toned up.
In your daily habits there are cer-
tain groups of internal muscles which
you scarcely ever Use,. Nature intended
vou to use them, or they Would not
be there.
Unless you DO use them they’ll
wither and become useless. They
then cannot perform their natural
functions —you have a Chronic feeling
bf weariness and lack Cf energy and
ambition.
Imagine how much better for you
it is to have your weak spots strength-
ened, especially when you can so
easily and pleasantlv db it by means
of my HEALTH EXERCISES which l
TKACII BY POST.
READ THE CONVINCING PROOF
GIVEN IN THIS LETTER: —
“I have improved wonderfully in
health and spirits since starting
your Course. 1 have gained nearly
half a stone in weight, and I feel
better than ever.—T.J.lL, Cairns,
Queensland.”
I've just added a number of new
exercises to my Courses —exercises
which were discussed and demon-
strated during my conferences early
this year with MAX MULLER, the
celebrated Danish Physical Culturist;
with the great EUGENE SANDOIV. , , . , ~
and with BERNAR McEADDEN, the leading American exponent ot 1 hysical Cultme.
These new exercises are the latest ancl best work of modern progressive specialists in c eve
ment of body, and ridding it of the ills brought about by neglect. They ve been tlio)oujil.v Os c
in Europe and America, ancl are getting wonderful results. Why not share in these b . * ?
You ought to write for further information and fees, and for' my
HEALTH EXERCISES. A 48-page interesting booklet, entitled HEALTH AND STREIsCI
FROM SELF‘CULTURE,’* will be sent-you. Write now, sending three penny stamps for posta* -
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BARER,
362 Belmont Buildings, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ir-SsS
A.
,73 prtrm
MY
SY
is T. C. Williams’ latest production. It
is certainly a fine tobacco, but you must
try it before you can realise what an excel-
lent smoke it‘is. It is perfection in aroma,
flavor and coolness.
Put up in three strengths—Mild, Medium
and Full.
7/. per lb. Plug, and 7/6 per lb. Out.
Postage in N.S.W. on lib., 9d; Inter-State,
1/2.
My Catalog of Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco,
etc., will be mailed free on request.
A M.SOLOriON,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Automobile Club of
Australia’s
Half=Gallon Petrol
Consumption Test
held on Saturday, 25 7/’l4.
First FOUR Places
.. , Secured on ...
Shellßenzine
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send tor Catalog D.
Tyjp'to-
cycles
CORRECT SHOE STYLES FOR MEW
The man who follows the styles closely is as
easy to please with our Footwear as the
man who thinks less of style and more of
comfort.
One gels style plus comfort, the other com-
fort p/mv style. Both get a quality that is
not obtainable in other ready-to-wear shoes.
The illustration shows a Choice W illow ( alf
Derby Shoe. Fine Stitched Welts, perfor-
ated Vanin, Lace Face and ( ap.
226, 25|-
IN BLACK or TAN.
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOB OUR CATALOGUE.
à
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
‘‘The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A.nd at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
KRUSE’S
FLUID MAGNESIA
II
*
Is
m
mm
55 60 -
5
60
“g
sisiii
!? s
PSiffiS
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
T
mm,
m
iiMI
Sls3.il
m
m
From the Viewpoint of
Australian Horsemen
“Lincoln-Stuart” Tailor-Made Kidine Gar-
ments are absolutely Perfect. Hard-wear
j tl cr Handsome Materials, particularly
adapted to Australian conditions Collect
and Comfortable Out-tho roughly Honest
Workmanship—form a combination that
guarantee of complete satisfaction.
Riding Breeches, 22/6
(Tailored to Order).
Riding Trousers, 12/6
(Tailored to Order).
“Judhpore” Trousers, 22/6
(Tailored to Order).
At the above prices a splendid Khaki
Drill is supplied. It is the same
grade as that supplied by us to the
Australian Troops in South Africa.
It is almost Everlasting; is suttiei-
entlv Soft and Pliable; and does nor.
show tin' D; st or Dirt easily.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE
from our great range of Riding Stuffs,
to any part of the Commonwealth,
and so are our Catalog, Self-Measure-
ment Form, Tapes. etc. Write
to-dav.
VVE—PAY —FREIGHT
LINCOLN, STUART
g CO. PTY. LTD.,
‘‘Outfitters by Mail,”
244-254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


A hard
cough
grips you harder every day
you neglect it. SCOTT’S
Emulsion is the right remedy
the only one that eases
the hacking cough, soothes
irritated membranes, heals
inflamed tissues, promotes
strength and builds up the
system to resist dangerous
after-effects and further
attacks.
But, if you decide to try
SCOTT’S, be sure to insist
on the one and only genuine
TRADE
1874
'A
MARK
1914
scons
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and caf£ districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
It is as Beautiful as it is
Comfortable! The World-
famous
MOSGIEL
RUG
The Choice of Royalty and the
Favorite of the Experienced
Traveller.
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
14
ft
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard or degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2Ain. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions. POS TED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189*191 George Street, Brisbane.
Mt Established 1847. .
Allcocks
V
i
V
*
MS
»c*»
PLASTERS
Eagle Mark
FOR
i Kidney
Troubles
Always apply two (see
cut) one over each kidney.
We have found by ap-
plying in this manner they
do much better work and
are vastly superior to the
large and clumsy so-called
kidney plaster.
When you need a Pill
take a Brandreth's Pill
Purely Vegetable.
(Est. 1752.)
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING Co., Birkenhead.
, Etc.
Dr.
Patentedself adjusting featu
motion
ffootca
JL
No More
Aching Feet!
All Fnot
Troubles Ended!
For tired or aching feet, of for anyone constantly walking or
standing. Dr. SCHOLL’S FOOT-EAZER has no equal
This appliance is worn in the boot or shoe, entirely free from notice, and may
eas.ly be transferred from one pair to another. It is light and comfortable to
wear, positively easing the feet, body and nerves. It is also self-adjusting,
and gives just the nght support at just the right spot. .
In all sizes Jot men and women.
Stocked by all leading Boot Dealers
jfy° u have any difficulty in procuring these goods, write direct to the Agent 9.
/reatment and Care of the feet" Booklet sent Free.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
80 Clarence Street, Sydney
Sole Agents in N.S.W.
FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.,
110 Edward Street, Brisbane,
Sole Agents in Queensland
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
Lonsdale Street, Melbourne-
Sole Agents in Viclom
B. ROSENSTAMM,
61-65 King Street, Perth
Sole Agent* in W. A
W. & G. GENDERS,
Cameron St., Launceston,
57 Liverpool St„ Hobart.
Sole Agent* in Tasmania
MICHAELIS, HALLENSTEIN & FARQUHAR, Dowling Street. Dunedin. NZ
Sole Agents in New Zealand
Free
Play
1
%
m
i
y~rc
&
’A
<tO 31
£25
Most Famous Sliding Cord
Brace in the World
Sold Everywhere
2/-
Guaranteed
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound: containing upwards of Three
hundred of "H±>p’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size. Price, 21s.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
Kuscobin”: Already Maorilanders are
I eckoning on the fillip that will be given to
the woollen manufacturers of England and
I I lance in the event of Germany being put
out of business. Now the woollen mills of
M.L., to mention only Kaiapoi, Mosgiel, Pe-
tone and Roslyn, make up tweeds the equal
of those woven anywhere, yet of recent years
they have been forced to act more and more
as distributors of over-sea woollens. The
duty and freight do not altogether equalise
the cheaper wages and cheaper working con-
ditions of Europe, so the local manufacturers
have been forced into tin's position. If the
fool politician were to thump up the tariff
the mills in Maoriland would be justified in
working up all the raw material on hand.
i.he Maonlander who to-day sneers at his
own excellent goods would then be forced to
wear them or go about in the little that was
left of imported stuff. There’d he more
practical patriotism in this than all the
anthem howling at the street corners, or the
tool pleasantries about saveloys that to-day
pass as the real thing in humor.
The bosses of the energetic Union Steam-
ship Co. of Maoriland must heave a whole
stomach-full of the sigh of relief over the
swift disappearance of the German banner
from the Pacific. A while ago Frank Coffee,
who is Australia’s most persistent traveller
across the Pacific, was asked what was the
biggest change he had lately noted in his
ocean wanderings. He didn’t have any
hesitation in saying that it was the rapid
growth of German trade in the islands. The
Union Co. still carried its house flag to many
of the groups and brought copra to Aus-
tralia, where it was put into German bot-
toms. It was primarily to collar' this trade
that the N.D.L. only two or three months
ago decided to open up a direct line with
.Maoriland, and the Union Co. felt sick at
the prospect of a still deeper Teutonic cut
into the profitable island trade. Now, unless
something dreadful happens, the Germans
won’t have many ships available for this
choice titbit, and the Union Co. will hold
its own and get a bit more into the bargain.
Meantime.-however, the copra trade, having
largely handed itself over to Germany, has
sustained one of the worst slumps on re-
cord. An island trader who had been pay-
ing £l6 .lately wrote that he was now
chancing it” at £3.
* * * *
F. 11. Faulding and Co., wholesale
druggists, Adelaide, write : —•
An Adelaide paper points out that “owing to the
stoppage of German supplies of anesthetics, it is
stated that Melbourne is faced with a serious shortage
of chloroform and ether. Chemists are already taking
steps to conserve their supplies, by selling only small
quantities of the drugs.” The anaesthetics, ether and
chloroform, are made from pure alcohol. The manu-
facture of these and hundreds of other products has
always been denied to English makers because the
British Government has refused concessions which have
been freely granted to manufacturers of similar goods
in Germany. The same restrictions on the use of
alcohol have retarded progress in Australia. In the
Lancet, which came to hand last week, it is explained
that ether made from methylated spirit is in use in all
the London hospitals. Such stuff is not good enough
for use in Germany, but owing to red tape and British
Government restrictions, it is quite good enough for
English-speaking people. It is to be hoped that the
authorities in Australia, as well as in England, will at
last realise that the prosperity of Germany, in the
chemical industry at any rate, is very largely due to
the liberal use of pure alcohol in the manufacture of
synthetic and other drugs and preparations.
By reason of the fact that the patriotic
and Freetrade Australian prefers German
pianos to the British or Australian manu-
factured instrument, practically the whole
of the trade is in the hands of the ravening
hordes who are spilling the blood of our
kindred and friends. At more than half the
patriotic concerts in Australia the National
Anthem. 'Britons Never Shall be Slaves,”
Advance Australia Fair,” and so on, are
belted out of pianos made at Blooduntguts-
burg, while the audience waves its imported
and anti-British hat enthusiastically. All
ine same, there is likely to be a shortage in
leuton-made pianofortes, and a party 'of
importers agents were hurried to* the
Lnited States by the last ’Frisco mailboat
to see what help Uncle Sam can give (he
useless, helpless, poor devil of a bushwhack-
ing Australian.
MAG. SULPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Owing to the war Epsom salts have advanced 334
per cent, in price. 3
I did not much mind hearing- that the Germans died in
scores ;
1 did not care if Austrians descended on our shores.
Ihe enemy is not so bad although he has his faults
But just regard the awful rise in price of Epsom salts
(I Ear is Bell.)
It doesn’t matter much to me if shells fall in Berlin
I’d slap the Kaiser or, the head for all his frightful
sin.
I don t much care if Prussian corps are sent to
funeral vaults,
But damn the Kaiser when he skies the price of
Epsom salts.
(Loud cheers.)
1 hey ve shot the Town Hall at Louvain, they’ve killed
a pig in Ghent;
They’ve made a mess of Brussels, those scoundrels
Satan sent.
Tot 1 forgive them all they did—those hounds of
wursts and malts
But I can not forgive them for the rise in Epsom
salts.
{Kill Bill.)
The skulls of men bleach in the fields from Maubenge
to the Rhine,
And the grapes of next year’s vintages shall drip a
ghastly wine.
But now this verdammt Kaiser, he has crowned his
murderous faults,
And there’ll be a fearful reckoning for the rise in
Epsom salts.
{l’ll cut his braces!)
N.S.W,
RANDOLPH.


I ft
/
'^////
X
M
W
<*>
}/
J
m
M
i
\x
%
i
%
&
w\mr~
if
r
li
g§§
£
£
HW
♦a
ivinuiiu«:;iiiiiiu»ii
2
Gsher’s
Green
Not
TRIPE
Whisl^
t ite in the bottle
W


Flavelle, Roberts 8
Sankey, Ltd.,
JEWELLERS, etc.
Brisbane, Rockhampton and Lismore.
Stocktaking
Sale
6/- in the £1 Reduction.
Wedding Presents
at ail prices from 2/6 to £lOO.
Sen 1 for Special lists stating
value you wish to expend.
This handsome Nut Dish, with Nut
Cracks, in best Electro-Plate on Nickel Silver,
and everlasting. Price £3718/-, but now
£2/14/8.
A Very Beautiful Centre Piece for
table, to bobl flowers and sweets or fruit, in
best E.P.N.S. Will last a lifetime. Price
£3/10/-, now' £2/15/- No nicer present
could possibly be-given to a bride.
m*
tM
• ■ ■
Cake Baskets are always acceptable as wed-
ding 'iresen ts. We have hundreds of most
artistic designs and best quality to select from.
Prices from 30/- to 60/-, less 30 per cent.,
or 6/- in the £.
Case:s Four-o’clock Teaspoons. Prices
21/-, 24/-, 25/-. 26/-, 23/- Now 15/-, 16/7,
17/6, 18/3, 19/8.
Cases 6 Pa is Fish Knives and Forks.
Prices £3, £3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5, £6.
Now £2, £2/11/-, £3/3/-, £3/10/-,
£4/6/-
As above, but with Servers also in the Case.
Price £3/15/-, £5, £7.
Now £2/12/6, £3/10/-, £4/18/-
Case % -dozen Dessert Knives and
Forks. Price £2, £3, £3/10/-, £3/12/6,
£4/4/- Noav £l/8/-, £2/2/-, £2/9/-,
£2/10/8, £2/18/10.
We have the Best-assorted Stock in Australia
and can send you any article you want.
[ROSES ALL THE YEAR ROUND;
This picture shows a Rose Bush in Bloom Eight
Weeks after the SEED was planted. When
three years old the Bush will bear at one ,
time 1000 to 2000 Roses, if grown in good soil
and properly cared for. The flowers are in
three colors, light pink, dark pink and white.
They grow well in or out doors and bloom all
the year round. A packet of ten lobes, con-
taining about 60 seeds, for One Shilling, post free.
We guarantee at least three bushes to grow from
i each packet. Mention this paper when order-
ing and receive a Free Gift of Five Seeds of the Wonderful
Sensitive Plant (Mimosa Pudica), just received from the
Philippines. The leaves of this beautiful flowering shrub
I instantly close when touched and it “goes t 6 sleep!’ when
[famed with chloroform. Union Co., 2 99 Elizabeth St., Melb,
i
By appointment
to their
Excellencies
Lord Carmichael K C.IIG.
Lord Mleg PC.G.CIG. GOO.
lord Denman K .GOT. GC.VO.
fJteLbli&hed 1876
m
:
V
o
r ‘t H £C.v
pr< ’
A jhelyre that
is making
"founders of the fuller Industry in Australasia.
A -w , m .... - --.■—•■■■mp., ■■■— •- ryi, W .mi ,i,.m., ,
„ „ , rlills-footscrau
Branches in all States of Australia
and New Zealand.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BV ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/b.
á
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
eff e c.t u ally
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*ho cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
ARE YOU DEAF?
< DanjhiH)
EARPHONE
GIVES PERFECT HEARING
The object of the Danjhill
Earphone is to enable
deaf people to hear.
By simply wearing a Danjhill Earphone a deaf person ran sit: in a room and hear
all tne conversation with perfect ease. It collects sounds from all directions without
losing any of their strength.
It transmits the voice clearly, and can be used in a Public Hall, Theatre or Church.
For years past Jerdans Ltd. have been successfully attending to the eve
troubles of the public.
If your eyes fail you naturally take to spectacles.
Why not let us treat your ears with the Danjhill Earphone? The result
will be perfect.
iSOIvE. AGENTS ;
JERDAIM’S LTD.,
My Opticians, 393 George Street, City.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appeal on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Square Dinlcum: The Bulletin’s ver-
dict is: When anybody offers you anything “free,”
have nothing to do with him. When he offers you
£3OO worth of anything for £l5O, avoid him.
When he says he is willing to give you his un-
paralleled £75 gold watch without charge in order
to advertise his ten-bob pants, kill him. When he
explains to you that he will give you a £lOO draw-
ing-room suite, and a grandmother, and a mother-in-
law, and £lO in cash provided you take them all
away in his free-gratis-and-for-notliing pantechnicon,
with a coupon thrown in, bury him. That is all the
wisdom that the paper has about it just now. Inci-
dentally, if you want to be robbed, the editor is
willing to sell you 1000 Mount Caimimlah copper
shares. They represent the last time he fell in....
J. Bromer: The “blanky’’ Australiiise lias been re-
printed in The B. It is published in “Baekhloeks
Ballads,” by O. J. Dennis (any Australian book-
seller).- The Religious Editor «avs that when sung
to “Onward, Christian Soldiers,” the blanky
ode makes a. fine marching song.... Ham
Tour appeal for an extension of the idea
of the 44-hour working week is interesting. And as!
the trade returns for July are just in, we are struck -
by a coincidence. That month was the sort of pinna-
cle of a wonderful career. By reason of importing
much and. exporting little, not making anything-like
enough goods to supply our own needs, and borrow-
ing immense sums to pay for short hours and good
food and casual methods- —by reason of these things
the month of July saw Australia drifting into debt
at the rate of about £46,000,000 per annum. Do
you think this is a time to do less work than we
have been doing?. ... Arameo: (1) An ambassador is
a diplomatic agent; a consul a commercial represen-
tative. The former is generally of high political
rank in his own country, whilst the latter is selected
for his business ability ; (2) all accredited represen-
tatives of a foreign country are protected, and when
war is declared they are allowed to pack their port-
manteaux and are graciously escorted out the nearest
door; (3) the merchant ships of an enemy are always
liable to capture and confiscation in war time. There
are a number of agreements of the Hague Conference
of 1907 dealing with the subject (which you will find
in almost any of the locally-published pamphlets),
but international law is an extremely confused animal
at present, and any old thing might happen-'....
J.S.: (1) Raleigh was executed in 1618 (James 1.,
King). (2) More or less, but Wellington must get
the bulk of the credit. .. .Ned \V., 8.G.C., ILL.,
B.S.S and about 7000 others: The next one to send
in that gag about the recruit who didn’t want to cat
the Germans will get it where Joe Cook got it —
only more so. .. .Charles Ludowici: We’re keeping it
to the front... .N.V.: You’ve got a nerve.. . .E.C.:
If you’d made it clearer we’d have done something
with it....8i1l S.: Right, we’ll see about him....
Exercise Book Author: Let the drunkard full in here:
THE DRUNKARD.
I am down ! down ! down !
Down in the depths of sin
And man with his awful frown
Cares not the prick of a pin
Though lie may with a leer
Give me the price of a beer,
Yet I am down down down.
2.
Down in a sea of woe
My only pleasure to drink
As on the stream they go:
The rich who do nothing but think.
Once I was companion with these
Who now just passed with a snee/.e
For I am down down down.
. ...Kooki: Passed outwards. Let there be no moan-
ing at the basket... .A.8.J.: Ten years too soon. .. .
F.B. (Q.) : Old Harry isn’t a saleable devil this time.
....Ben G.: Bust the Kaiser and all his works-
including his songs... .T.G.: Forward, the Poets!—
AN ODE FROM A CAPTIVE.
All is quiet in the village.
1 sit and muse on a stump,
And dream-of a far away land.
Thousands of miles across the foam.
But Hark! The sound of battle
Awakes me from my dream.
And 1 am suddenly brought
To my senses by a bullet in my Thigh
I try to stagger to my feet
but alas it is all in vain
For suddenly looking ahead
I see a dirty German Swain
I am captured, and taken prisoner
And bound with horrid chains
For I know it will not be
for long
For I know the Australian Expeditionary
Force, is rapidly marching this way.
... .C.8.A.: No sting. .. .A.G.E.: More Kaiser!!!
. ...R.C.C.: The N.S.W. Old Age Pensions Act was
introduced by William Lyne in 1900, and came into
force on August 1. 1901. It was based to a great
extent on the Maoriland system. The State Act was
superseded by the Commonwealth Act of 190 S-9. It
would be too wearisome a job to look up what George
Reid had to say about the N.S.W. Act. In fact, it
is too wearisome a job to look up what George Reid
said about anything. Sometimes he. said something
about something, but nothing: be said about things in
general called for attention. . . .Tomago Water: Web-
ster says origin is Jack Kangaroo; and Jackeroo is
just as correct as Jackaroo... .J. Kemp: Some State
floats a £3,000,000 loan in London. It collects the
money from the lenders and puts it in the London
branch of the Bank of N.S.W. or the Bank of Vic-
toria, or any other old bank that it banks with.
The Australian office of the bank has to, pay heaps
of money in London on behalf of its customers —
merchants who are sending money to Europe to pay
for imported goods. The bank acquires a great idea
or inspiration. Instead of carrying one lot of
sovereigns to England and carrying another lot to
Australia, with a great chance that they may be
wrecked on the way, it sets one lot against the
other —that is to say, it pays its own accounts in
London out of the loan and pays the Government its
£3,000,000 here with the money that its customers
deposited to pay for the imported hats and boots.
Sovereigns are only risked on the high seas when it
is absolutely necessary. This is the best explanation
we can offer... .Mid-Channel: Don’t remember seeing
it even. ...L. Mackintosh: Suggest it to one of the
dailies Recording Angel: You should know better
than to jamb your lines so close to one another.. ..
N.Z.: No use crying out “Woe!” on that subject;
Tiie Bulletin’s honorable censor would cry the same
thing, but he would spell it “Whoa 1 !” R, O’Hal-
loran: Like many other people, you seem to regard
the Australian manufacturer, who pays the ever-
increasing union wages for short hours of labor, as
a public enemy. Haven’t you anything to say about
the importer, whose duties don’t increase, and who
pays very poor wages to his serving men, and floods
this country with German and Austrian goods. Of
course, Australian manufacturers have “honorable
understandings” among themselves. Otherwise, how
could they live, with an almost invisible tariff and
unlimited cheap labor competition? Have you been
hired by Kaiser William, or what is wrong with you?
Y. : The Rev. Sam Marsden, the cen-
tenary of whose first visit to Maoriland is
soon to be celebrated, was the unintentional
cause of the Maori war. When he went
across the Tasman Sea in ISI4 he adopted
a young Maori boy. lloani Heke, and set
about teaching him the ways of the white
man. He took the youngster to Sydney,
where he used him as coach boy, and after-
wards carried him to England. Marsden
was jingoistic, and the power and might
of England were his constant themes. But
Heke had an affection for his race, and
began to feel that Sam’s religion and
patriotism would end in the subjugation of
Ins brown -brothers and the loss of their
lands. Finally, he broke away from Sam-
uel and returned to his people, with all the
knowledge of guns, powder, shot and shell
tbe corpulent parson had instilled. It was
Heke who, because of this knowledge, gave
the regiments of regulars sent from Sydney
such a hot time. lie was a skilful strate-
gist, but the time was not ripe, so lie threw
in bis alley and subsequently died a good
Christian at the age of 42. His luck was
out.
There are many who want to send winter
clothes to the Belgian refugees and the
British poor, but don’t know how to do it.
Any such may consign the goods to the
“Committee of Farmer’s Provident Society,
c/o Farmer and Co., BGo Kent-street.
Sydney,” and be satisfied that they will go
where they are likely to do most good. The
things may be either new or second-hand,
but if the latter they should be clean, whole
and free from moth. The destitute victims
of Germany’s tyranny are too wrapped up
in their sorrows to be able to do much wash-
ing (apart from the fact that they possess
neither soap nor washhouses), and they
can’t afford moth-brick. All gifts must be
labelled “For British and Belgian Poor.”
It is up to the well-to-do owners of winter
clothing in Sydney to get busy without
further delay.


Before the dawn of Q.E. Electric Fans people on warm, sultry
days wished for cooling breezes, and waited. Nowadays the
comfort of a cooling breeze can be obtained by touching a switch.
Siim
f
-
K
>#
jjyjass--
N 15g% i
■■
I
pm - *
A
C.E. CO. (U.S.A.) ELECTRIC FANS may be used in any position,
and are stocked for use on Wall, Ceiling or Desk.
Order early, so as to avoid any inconvenience in delay, caused through
large Summer demands for G.E. (U.S.A.) FANS.
4i
31T Clarence
- Sydrt QugcnmjttleColliris_ l Sts - Melbourne.
nnrjmr /w « \ . Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Aust., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
Edward Street.
— Agents —
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
WASTING YOUR MONEY.
It’s a very simple matter to fool away your cash, and you can easily
do this if you are not careful in the selection of your Engine.
m
THE “BIG CHIEF’ 5
is positively the cheapest and best Oil Engine ever seen in Australasia.
It embodies all the most “Up-to-date” Improvements, and being
hopper cooled, there is no fear of leaky tanks. Fitted with regular pulley,
extended crankshaft, attachment for using either kerosene 01 benzine
as fuel, Wizard magneto. Five years guarantee against defective parts.
MOST LIBERAL TERMS. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
R. L. SCRUTTON 8c CO. LTD.
i ■ ■
161 Clarence Street, Sydney, “Where the Best Engines are Sold.” 13


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELROURNE and ADELAIDE.
♦Twin Screw. All Pitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGEII ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. {Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
' Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single lierth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Bunking, Public Companies, Sc.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O’M. WOOD,
H. D. HALL,.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at Ss% on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The Bank has 130 and over 5 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices;
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
' AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,198,679
PAID-UP (30th June, 1914).. .. £1,195,591
RESERVE FUND £45,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yabwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysagiit, Esq.
Branches throughout New South AVales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED. $
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 18 ffj
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
.. agreement extending to June SO, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 166,000, 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,609 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. M’unro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.'L.C.
General *M-anaokr —AV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Afriea, China, the East.
The C° lonia ' mutual [ife
assurance society limited
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated 1* unds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
.Chief Office for New South AVai.es:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretarj
Shipping.
TO SAN .FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
riOANA leaves Wellington Sept. 17.
Connecting Steamer, Leaves Sydney, Sept. 11.
fIARAMA leaves Sydney Oct. 10.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
JHE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMISUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COKE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rhil to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Ss. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d. '
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261' GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
WHITE STAR LINE
Only One Class of Accommodation*
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONOON.
à
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
SUEViC, 12,500 tons,
about OCTOBER 17.
Fares—Capetown or Durban, £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London . . . . 19 0 oto 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, etc., from . . .. 25 5 0
Melbourne . . . . .. . . 110 0
PAMPHLETS AND ALL INFORMATION ON APPLI-
CATION. Luggage Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY >
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
*CAIRNS .
(‘Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 19.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 23.
Leaves Sydney Sept. 26.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 30.
Leaves Sydney Oct. 3.
For
MELBOURNE
for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 19.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney Sept. 26.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
£
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital .... ..... £3,500,000
Reserve Fund ..... £2,450,000
Reserve Liability .... >kig|g|gj|S|L £3,500,000
DIRECTORS: £9,450.000
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
’■‘‘President.
Thomas ISucK'land, Esq.
Hichard Binnie, Esq.
The lion. Janies T. Walker
flie Hon. Kdinund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The lion, Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Robert Lionel Faithfull, M.D.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Rainier, Esq.
Head Office— George St., Bydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St.| E.C.
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Rills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. 1,730,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,730,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Coiien, Esq... .. Chairman,
lion. H. E. Rater, M.E.C. . . Deputy-Chairman,
lion. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibiis.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
IE 11. Massif..
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors: F. 11. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of [)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up . . . . . . .. . . 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and. Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts
all other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. ..£54-1,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
£779,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. '
Gen. Man.. Ed\yd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: K. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone llanp each month.
Price 6d-
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers, 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
SONOMA .. .. | Sept. 26 | Nov. 21 | Jan. 16 I Mar. 13
VENTURA .. | Oct. 24 j Dec. 19 j Feb. 13 j April 10
The San Francisco Panama Exposition is open
February-December, 1915. Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on best
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
This saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flaps. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/G Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin when ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This saddle is for-
warded freight paid to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., or any port Queensland. Obtained from
J. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY,
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE **
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle'
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARIIjDA (8000
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Sept. 26 and Oct. 24.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
Brisbane
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WOLLOWRA, Sept. 19.
-ALLINGA, Sept. 26.
INNAMINCKA, Oct. 3.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL St CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN II.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
SAILINGS :
♦Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nursery, Laundry, Electric
Lift.
First Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STKAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Hvddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables,
HUDDART PARKER LIMITER),
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
t
A.U.S.N.Co. Ltd.
WINTER TRIPS.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports, Melbourne,
Adelaide, West Australia and Fijß.
T.S.S. “ INDARRA ” ... 10,000 tons
T.S.S. “ KANOWNA” ... 7OQO tons
T. 5.5. “ KYARRA” ... 7000 tons
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ NVYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel
bv the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers
possess all up-to-date arrangements for con-
venience -atjfl comfort, making travel -safe, easy
and pleasant. -’* After first port of call, First and
ScccThd Saloon Tickets are interchangeable with all
Interstate Companies, also with the Union S.S. Coy.’s
steamers in the Fiji Trade; particulars on applica-
tion. For dates of sailing see ’ Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
YVe Supply— . _ v .
JARRAH arid Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc. "
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A,
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68{ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all parts of the world.
HEALS ANY WOUND OR SORE
If you have an obstinate sore, a wound that won’t
knit, a bad leg or a skin eruption of any kind,
no‘matter of how long -standing, you can . cure it
quicklv and surely with
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIG OINTMENT.
Price 1/6, posted 119. J. WILKINSON, Chemist
1] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane


I,egal Notices.
TO JOHN GRIFFEN, formerly of Dunedin, New
Zealand, but last heard of at LONGREACII and
JUNDAH, Queensland, and to all persons claiming
by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the directions of His Honor Sir
Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice of New
Zealand, under Section 25 of The Public Trust Office
Amendment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon to
send to the undersigned on or before the 31st day of
December. 1914, your claim to a share of the estate
of JAMES GRIFFEN, otherwise known as JAMES
fI’HARA GRIFFEN, late of Dunedin, Insurance
Clerk, deceased, who died on the 9th day of May,
1910, failing which such estate will be distributed
among the persons entitled thereto under the provi-
sions of deceased’s will disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this third day of September,
1914,
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
To JAMES BILLING, formerly of Auck-
land District, New Zealand, but last
heard of in Sydney, and to all persons
claiming by, through or under him.
PURSUANT to the . directions of his
Honor Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G.,
Chief Justice of New Zealand, under Sec-
tion 25 of The Public Trust Office Amend-
ment Act, 1913, you are hereby called upon
to send in to the undersigned on or before
the 31st day of October, 1914, your claim to
part of the estate of Joseph Billing, late
of Waihopo, Auckland, Gumdigger, de-
ceased, who died on the 3rd day of March,
1914, intestate, failing which such estate
will be distributed among the persons entitled
thereto, disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this first day of
July, 1914.
■T. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
ffommonwealtWjli JBaitk o'Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. Bills negotiated or forwarded for collection Banking anu
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom.and abroad.
Current accounts opened, interest paid on fixed deposits. made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia
and Papua
Interest at
per annum
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
■TAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. DKMS >X MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the iuvestor, the scientist, the tourist, tho
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TUOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
your teeth should look
better than they do
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert &■ Co. , Marches ter, Eng.
CrVSJiA
ft
30
£
<
*
IfioOft
CP
Alcock
and
Pierce’s
Fishing Tackle
Is just as good as
“AP” celebrated
Guns & Cartridges
Get Preliminary List now, so as to
get your Tackle into shape ready
for the Season.
This Department is in charge of one of
the most experienced anglers in Victoria,
and any information you want, write to
“Angling Department,”
AIiCOCK & PIERCE,
318 Little Collins St. Me.bonrne
“AS EASY AS EASY.”
rs;*
Jsk
That is the kind of shave you want, and that is why you should use
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
The blade of a “Plum” shaves clean, without causing skin irritation or
inconvenience. Here’s a reason—we are practical tradesmen who know
the kind of edge required to ensure an easy shave. Send for a Plum
to-day and prove it yourself—
Price 10/0, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITK.EN,
654
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
Hotels, &c.
ta>
igS™
' '. f •'
api
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16/- per day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAUL AND SUPPER
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all, rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
; M
m
\awd i
f roi
Sil
\ Sal
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
Nitrate of
rive r and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
j Golden Brown,
£ Blonde, Chestnut
J'and Auburn
W Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
r Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
HIM ROD'S
asthma powder
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
No matter what your Respiratory
Organs may be suffering from—
whether Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough —you will
find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and. Stores
throughout Australasia.
mUE Best Stories written by Australian
1 Writers appear in Tiie Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. Gd. monthly.
HAES & ECOERS LIMITED,
163 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
i mm
*• ■
$
&
■
wsmn
m- zsmMMM
• ""
.
sswat
mm
•>• f!
J
H
, v-jf-■?-•:
St
Australian Representatives for
. 8. WILD & 00.
SPECIALISTS
in the Manufacture of
Hauling and
Winding Machinery
of Every Description.
500-H.P. Main and Tail Hauling Gear with Sliding Drums.
If you are interested in Winding and Hauling Propositions our expert is at your service free of cost
to you, and we guarantee he will suggest a scheme that will be entirely satisfactory in every way.
We can supply either MACHINE-CUT DOUBLE HELICAL GEARS
or Gears with Plain Straight-cut Teeth.
The Forest, the Sea and Myself.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the end of a hard-fought year,
With wearied body and brain,
Lo! I turn to you again,
O Sea ! With an eager ear
I listen to catch your song
On the ocean beaches long.
The thunder of that refrain
Is echoing here inland;
The clashing of surf and sand
With the wind’s great reedy strain
Is taken up by the trees,
That whisper and start and sway
Like tiddlers trying to play—
An orchestra ill at ease.
At the end of a working year,
When the wind with trumpets comes
And a stirring roll of drums,
Then the call is sweet and clear,
The trees in their mimic way
The sea’s great symphony play.
Then the restless tempest roves
Till each tall instrument
Its flowing voice has blent,
And ocean roars in the groves.
Then One below, amid leaves —
Dead leaves that glimmer and rush,
Like waters that flow and gush,
For the distant Master grieves.
Oh, Forest and Sea apart,
And the courier Wind between
To bring to the list’ning green
The song of the ocean’s heart!
Straight from the smoking crest
To the trees in splendor drest
The message of strength is blown.
Over the dunes and hills
The hollows of clouds it fills,
Till the splendid key is known.
Then you hear the immense duet
Of the Forest and distant Sea,
Which they joyously sing to me.
And I listen to it, you bet!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.


â
Here’s That
PANAMA.
Hitherto Panamas have been looked upon
as merely neglige Hats, with a better
claim to comfort than smartness.
In this Panama we illustrate a stvie
that will vie with the Smartest Stetson
for style and dressiness.' •
The “ PAROO”
a Real Peruvian Panama, fine, even plait,
perfect bleach; wide band with bow at
back. Brims: 2, 2 i, 2f inches wide.
PRICE 25/-, Post Free.
The “FORMOSA”
has a brim 3 to inches wide, a nice,
soft, comfortable Panama.
PRICE 10/6, Post Free.
Write for our Big 256-page Summer
Catalogue — it’s Free.
FINNEY’S
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
No district in Queensland is more closely
affected by the war than the Logan. This
locality is thickly peopled by Germans, many
of whom are intermarried with British folk.
Veterans of Weissembourg and Worth
(1870) are common among the Logan
Deutschers.
THE FINAL APPEARANCE.
LOW COMBDY : "Much of a crowd at old Marmadke's funeral?”
TRAGEDY: “Remarkable, my boy, remarkable! I assure you we were positively turning
them away."
Recent press announcement re probate—
“ Dame Margaret Millar Bell, widow of
Joshua Peter Bell, K.C.M.G.: Realty £3l,
personalty £240.” All that was left of the
one-time greatness of Jimbour.
“Machete”: Commander J. A. H. Beres-
ford, R.A.N., who had the honor of lead-
ing the first R.A.N. force into action at
New Britain (otherwise New Pomerania)
the other day, hails from Queensland, where
he put in a considerable time in the naval
forces. He rose from warrant rank to be
holder of a commission, and finally passed
into the Australian navy. His promotion
has been rapid of recent years and well
deserved.
Major “Tommy” Dods, D. 5.0., A.A.G.,
has been promoted to A.G.', with the rank
of Lieutenant-Colonel and a seat on the
Military Board. “Tommy” first began his
military experience with the Queensland
Teachers’ Corps, a volunteer regiment re-
cruited from public-school pupil-spankers.
He went to South Africa as adjutant of the
sth Queensland Bushmen, and the D.S.O.
was handed to him. On his return he joined
the General Staff, and since then he has
never looked back except to see if the force
behind him was keeping reasonably sober.
Lieutenant Rowland Bowen, R.A.N.,
wounded in the capture of the German wire-
less station at Rabaul, is a well-known
Brisbaneite who was for some time in the
Naval Reserve. He was one of the first
reservists to pass into the Australian navy.
In Brisbane he made a hobby of flying,
and constructed a biplane “glider” with
which he used to experiment from the im-
mense, sloping sandhills of Moreton Island.
Though he made several attempts to hurt
himself the soft surface proved an obstacle
every time. Apparently the native police
of German. Papua have been less consid-
erate.
Joy item from Melbourne Age (10/9/T4) :
Young lady, husband away at camp, would like
another as friend, about 20, respectable. Ella, S.
Yarra P.O.
The business at South Yarra P.O. that day
trampled all records in the mud and buried
the staff 10ft. deep.
Hans Blumenschein.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’d like to be a Deutscher stout and be a
Briton goodt;
I’d visk to fight for dis landt undt for dat
landt if I could ;
Mein Frau, she iss a Sydney girl, und-lofes
der Union Jack,
Und says she hopes der Kaiser’s crowd is
beaten blue and black;
But I vas born in Preussen und I lofe der
Vaterland,
Und vhen I hear “Die Wacht am Rhein”
mein bosom vill exshpand.
And vhen dey run der Shermans down, dese
patriotic crew,
Bei Gott —mein Blut it gets so hot—l don’t
know vot to do.
You see, I’m goodt Australian, und I’ve
got my leedle plot;
Mein Kinder are Australian too, und
Deutschland is forgot;
I)ey read dose daily gables of der Deut-
schers’ grueltie,
Und vhen 1 say it’s mostly lies dey look
so shly at me.
Und Fritz (he iss der eldest) goes a-marcli-
ing mit his gun,
Uhd shows his leedle Briider how he make
der Prussians run,
Und in der school dey sing, a song of Red
und Vhite und Blue,
But “Deutschland fiber -Alles” iss a Lied
dey never knew.
You see I lofe dis gountry mit its Freiheit
und its clear
Blue Himmel—dough you cannot touch old
. Deutschland’s Lager Bier.
Mein Vater left his Vaterland mit bitter
Schmerz behind,
But leedle shparks of Deutschland keep up-
springing in der mind,
Und, dough, der. Kaiser’s half verriicht for
Glory und for Blut,
I feel mit pride in deepest Herz der deutsche
stuff is goodt;
Und if I don’t rejoice myself at all der
Deutschers do,
I cannot shout mit Britishers when Sherman
luck is blue.
I vould not like for tousand pound to have
der Kaiser here- —
(I know der vorth of Freiheit und I holdt
her blessings dear)
But efery morn I feel a tug-of-var vithin
my breast —
Der Frau und Kinder battling mit der
Vaterland for best.
Dey do not mean to vound old Dad —but
vhen der crazy town
Is filled mit joy to hear der void: “Der
Sherman’s going down”
I hear mein Jack und Greta raise a vild
“Hip-Hip-Hurroo!”
Und say to me, “Hans. Blumenschein, vot-
ever villst thou do?”
Mein Fluch upon der crazy head vot
plunged us in dis row
Und soaked a landt mit honest blut und
vidowed many a Frau.
Old Bismarck’s “Blut und Eisen” is a Geist
you cannot lay,
It haunts der Kaiser’s palace und it drives
his peace avay ;
Und hier in far Australia der simple Mann
must groan
To dink votever side goes down der sorrow
is his own;
If England lose—mein Frau is sad, mein
Kinder sorrow too;
If Deutschland fall old Hans must veep dot
Deutschland’s luck is through.
I gannot read dose bapers now-—such
schrecklich tales dey tell
Of lofely towns in Belgian landt dot
Deutschers made a hell;
Of hundert tousand Prussians who haf gone
to Kingdom Come
And all about a cause vhereon der soldier’s
voice is dumb.
I bet mein life if var' vas made by common
Deutsch und French
No Tropfen Blut vas on der grass, no rifle
under , trench,
But Ach! der cursed ding is hier dot von
und all must rue,
Und I can only cry: “Vot can Australian
Deutschers do?”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 12, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
Dulness has brooded over us this week,
from a social point of view, like the shadow
of a forgotten lOU.
The races to-day were not largely at-
tended, and most of the frocks wore a
familiar aspect. Jean RosstM unro possessed
one of the smartest decorated figures on the
lawn, and Mrs. Stanley Chapman, Mrs.
Stuart Hyslop and Mrs. Bob McNab also
ran into a place.
The Arts and Crafts’ Society opened its
second annual show this week. A lot of
excellent work is shown, noticeably Mr.
Moroney’s pottery and Mr. Ronaldsen’s
quaint china reptiles and birds. These last
are marvellously lifelike, especially some
frilled lizards, and an iguana or two. Miss
Overman, a very old lady, has put in some
creditable wood-carving, and Mrs. Cortis
Stanford has done exquisite embroideries.
Little Agatha Fitzgerald exhibits some
illustrations for a' fairy tale —original and
artistic. The drawing is the weak element.
Two weddings are looming nearer to the
fatal hour. On the 16th of this month
popular Brenda Pike and “Jim” Thorpe (he
plays lacrosse for a living or lives to play
lacrosse —I forget which) will agree to
chance it. The other gamble particularly
concerns little Miss Jo Frost and "Mr. Chas.
Hall. The Frost pere and mere have sent
out invitations to an At Home in daughter’s
honor for September 28.
Hospitable Mrs. “Billy” Ahles is another
lady who will spread the festive food-stool
next week. Pier party, I believe, is some-
thing in the nature of a house-warming or
a fortress christening, she having evacuated
one suburb and taken up a strong position in
another.
The first news of fighting in German
Papua has just arrived. Lieutenant Bowen,
who was married about a fortnight ago
to a pretty little Brisbane girl, Grace Bell,
is among the wounded. Commander
Beresford, who lived here for many years
and whose wife is well known in Brisbane,
led the attack.
The United Service Institute on Wednes-
day night farewelled Lieutenant-Colonel
Sutton, Major Plughes and one or two others.
Last night (Friday) the Johnsonian Club
also got into action, and good-byed Lieu-/
tenant-Colonel. Sutton, Captain Marks and/
Captain Conrick (three popular medicoes,
who are a fraction of the Army Medical
Corps), and Lieutenant Urquhart, of the
line. Two of the rank and file, one a son
of Dr. Shirley and the other the son of
G. H. M. Addison, the clever architect, were
so-longed at the same time.
The Methodists got_ into line one night
this week, too, and adieued their adherents
who have loosed the war-yell and gone to
shake hands with the Bear at Berlin.
A local firm contributed £lOO to the
Patriotic Fund. Then its debt collector
spent a busy few days at the concentration
camp, making things unpleasant for budding
soldiers who still owed a few shillings on
recent suits and hats.
From the Liberal point of view, one of
the humors of last Saturday (polling day,
if you remember) was that an energetic
Liberal dame unconsciously commandeered
a Labor car, and plied briskly among the
voters of her own side for some two hours
before she was discovered.
Yours with the glowering- eye of the down-
trodden,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Billy Blue” : Brigadier-General VY illiam
Throsby Bridges, to whom the command of
the Australian Tommies going to the war
has been given, is a son of the late Captain
William Somerset Bridges, R.N.R., who, on
his retirement, filled for some years the
position of C.P.S. at Moss Vale (N.S.W.).
The late captain was married to a daughter
of the equally late Charles Throsby, of
Throsby Park, Moss Vale. She is also
“late,” but she survived her husband and
died within the last year. The Throsbys
are amongst Australia’s oldest families.
The first of them came out as a surgeon on
the transport Coromandel in charge of 138
convicts in June,' 1802, and settled in the
State. He was appointed superintendent
of the Newcastle district when it was a
convict settlement. He afterwards did
some good work exploring, and discovered
the Bong Bong country. Of this lie was
granted a good slice, and worked it into a
high-class estate. The Brigadier-General,
though he was born in Scotland in 18(51,
has had his military training in Australia.
Ilf obtained his first commission in the
N.S.W. Artillery in 1885.
“Nemo,” concerning an old friend :
Archibald Currie, who died a few days ago at
Melbourne, aged 84, had some uncommon experiences.
His schoolmaster in Ayrshire was one James Service,
who, years after, became Premier of Victoria; and
when, after the bank smash, the Commercial Bank
was “reconstructed,” Currie was a director and his
old dominie, - Service, was chairman. Currie went to
sea at 14, in the American and China trades, and
came to Australia in 1852 as third officer of the
barque Sir William Molesworth. It ran on a sand-
bank at King George’s Sound, and remained fast.
Currie and the second officer, Taylor, were nearly
drowned. When Archibald got to Melbourne he and
three of his shipmates went to the Bendigo gold
diggings. But they got no wealth. They tried
Mclvor, now called Heathcote, and had no luck there.
Then Currie went back to the briny. He entered the
Australian-Maoriland trade, and became a skipper at
22. His “trade master” with the Maoris was
William Thompson, alias Wiremu liingi, the “King
Maker.” Then Currie struck into the China trade,
and was the first to bring a British ship into the
port of Bangkok, Siam. That was in 1859. He
took a shipload of miners to Port Curtis, but the
diggings bedame an historic failure, and, further-
more, his ship struck on a reef. While at Port
Curtis Currie nearly lost his life trying to save people
from the wreck of a ship called the Tamandra. Next
he went into the San Francisco trade, and saw some
of the North and South war in America. After this,
he bought four ships and started business in Mel-
bourne as a merchant. It was he who discovered
and surveyed the harbor at King Island, now called
Currie Harbor.
The Reflections of “10-2-4”
A notable feature of the war is the resolute way
in which many of the gallant fellows who have been
covering themselves with feathers and gold braid, dur-
ing the past 10 or 15 years, are remaining at home.
The Expeditionary Force has very few of them as
officers, the latter having been mostly recruited from
the ranks of those who don’t mind a genuine fight,
but have no use for blither or display when there
seems no prospect of war. Exactly the same thing
was noticeable when the Soudan Contingent went
away 30 years ago. In those days the attractive and
ornate uniform of the N.S.W. Lancers was in great
demand for service at Government House, and for
social work generally. It was one of the jests of the
period that hardly any of the best-known wearers
of the famous uniform left for Egypt. The men that
did were of a very different type. Bevan Lewis, whose
book on “Normal and Morbid Psychology ” is a
modern classic, gives the key to the situation. He
reduces the character of every individual human being
into so many factors, and allots a certain number of
marks to each. “Stability,” “caution,” “reckless-
ness,” “resolution,” “love of notoriety”—each man
has more or less of these, and a hundred other
qualities, in his composition. The class of citizen
who has 80 per cent, “love of notoriety” in his
make-up joins a regiment with a taking uniform, and
wears the latter on every possible occasion, until the
outbreak of war. If in addition to 80 per cent, “love
of notoriety” his character shows 75 per cent, of
“caution” —or, in other words, plain funk —he then
proceeds to urge somebody else to face the risk and
discomfort of active service. A soldier in whom love
of display is balanced by courage and what Lewis
calls “stability” is a valuable asset to his, country.
When he adds to these qualities imagination and
high intellectual gifts he becomes almost priceless.
The rarest thing in life, and one of the most admir-
able, is a character which is all stability and no
vanity. Etienne Dumont, whose Letters hjtve just
been published, would seem to have had 100 per cent,
stability and not so much as a fraction of the
notoriety craze. He stands revealed in those docu-
ments as the trusted adviser of the younger Pitt,
Wilberforce, Bentham, Greville and a dozen other
great men. All these historical characters sought the
counsel of the unobtrusive Frenchman in his English
home, but he was the last to want to talk about it.
Kitchener would score highly for stability, and, of
course, his courage and resolution are undoubted. HiS
“love of display” factor would work out at about
five points at the outside. One of the most pleasing
traits of the best type of British soldier is the resolute
way in which the vanity element in him is suppressed.
Of course, it is there in many cases, but it is never
obtruded. All the world over, as a matter of fact —
whether in Paris or Pekin or Manly Beach —one of
the most reliable measures of a man’s status and
education is his freedom from braggadocio and
blatant vanity generally. A great gift is stability.
Life would be pleasanter in our great city bars if
there were more of it about.
“Old Colonist” writes: —-
Permit me to reply to “0.K.” (B. 3/9/’l4), who
lets loose on an innocent German national song,
“Deutschland Über Alles.” He interprets them as mean-
ing: “Germany wants to dominate the earth, sea and
sky,” whereas they are merely an expression of love of
Fatherland. Adding the eliminated word “beloved,”
and reading, “Germany beloved above all” (by its
people) the meaning becomes clear. There is not an
aggressive word in the whole song', and no more
arrogance than is contained in the anthem of any
other nation. As to “O.K.’s” outburst on a language
which is “almost a bestial offence to every foreign
ear;” all I can say is that the language has inspired
some of the greatest geniuses of all times, whose
works have been translated into every European
tongue, including English. Every language has its
faults and its beauties, which, however, are only
revealed to the full by years of study. English, for
instance, rejoices in the distinction of being the most
barbarously spelled tongue in Christendom. Spelling
was given to the Englishman to conceal the pronuncia-
tion. You can find English words which don’t con-
tain one sound mentioned in the English alphabet.


JUST FOR THE ASKING
-
I
London” 63/- suibn|;S;
London” 70/- Suiting
'C
» o
-
■
Lj*
/ 14-
iSfl
.
gm
' -
FREE
CL
CC:
WRITE
NOW
i
<k
\
o.
\
\
4i~
\
%
o
\
%
FREE TROUSER” COUPON.
A r ame
Highest Grade *'
Tailored Suits
TO
ORDER
With
nrr - _ TAII ORTNO SPECIALISTS who know our business and pass the benefit on to you. Thousands of designs
Za SbnL-fflTsSlrish a„ W d Austrian Tweeds and Serges. The designs are perfect produces; the
Trimmings we use are all that could be desired.
nBn rn vnilß SUIT AT ONCE We want you to be LONDON TAILORED—the hall-mark of Tailoring excellence.
We have the worfd and spent endless money to secure the finest artist, Cutters of the highest ability wrth
most extensive experience are at your command.
SEND for this immense range of SUITINGS. Elaborate-colored Style Book, Tape Measure, Chart, Etc., GRATIS,
and Post Free.
MONEY REFUNDED
IF DISSATISFIED.
Suits to Order
-106
-I SL
-I SS
-Izt
With
Extra
Trousers
Free.
Wi
Wj
fj
J
r opp. 1
G.P.0.,
Melbourne
WE
Absolute
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION.
Suits to Order
50|-
63|-
70/-
841-
With
Extra
k Trousers
Free.


Query : “ How did you
first come to use Pebeco
Tooth Paste?”
Answer: “My whole
family, you mean. It’s this
way! Upon leaving the
dentist after a recent call,
he was insistent that I use
Pebeco Tooth Paste—said
it was the scientific prepara-
tion of a celebrated German
Chemist—that there really
was no dentifrice quite like
it because it hygienically
revitalized the entire oral
cavity and prevented ‘Acid-
Mouth’—the cause of 95
per cenf. of all tooth decay.
TOOTH PASTE
“ I followed liis instructions and found
the Dentist was right. Pebeco Tooth
, Paste does purify and refresh the
mouth. Pebeco Tooth Paste does
stop ‘Acid-Mouth.’
“ N iturally, wife and children tried it.
lik it ? They too have ‘ got ’ the
Peoeco habit.”
Send 3d Stamps for sample tube and
interesting test of “ Acid-Mouth.” Of
all Ghem •sts.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O'Connell Street,
Sydney (nVholesale only).
MQ
SELS
AROMATIdUES
pour le bain.
iim,
ON
The clear and healthy complexion of
youth and a sense of radiani freshness
and comfort is produced and maintained
by the use of bath and washing water
Whbh has been scientifically " softened”’
with the
MORN?
3 BATH SALTS
A tablespoonful of Morny Bath Saifs is
tlio entire bath an* will
leave lino i "the skin a delicate and
lingering fragrance,
Issued in exquisite MORNY odours:
“CJiaminadebottles 5/6 & 18/6 “ June
Roses'’ * LaValse” 4 Violette-Morny '*
and “Yesha" 4/- & 10/6; 'Rose-
■Verveine ’ 3/- & 7/-.
An aura ui traurant urethra** surrounds
v woman whose Rath-roqm Ritual is ministered to \
.by the famous house of MQRNY of 2UX, Regent
i Street, London. W. /.
THE MORNY FINE BATH AND PERFUME
PRODUCTS are retailed in Sydney by:—
WASHINGTON 11. SOUL, 160 Pitt Street.
PATTINSON & CO., 427 George Street,
FARMER & CO., 221-9 Pitt Street.
CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE STORES OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LTD., 152-4 Pitt Street,
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists, 149 King Street.
Wholesale Agents only: DRUGGISTS LTD,,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT REMEDY
GOUT
CSL RHEUMATIC PILES.
Tlie severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia can be relieved by
BLAIR’S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 22!) Strand. London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. fid
Wholesale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
F. H. Paulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
I
TOUCHES
THE
SPOT
THE PIONEER OF SKIN CURES
No household should be without it.
Fop EOZEMt, PILES, SCALDS, BURNS,
CUTS, BRUISES, SORES, and all Skin
Complaints. V**s'
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO.,
lVhol sale A 'tuts, *■.
127, York Street, Svd<i«v.
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD,
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cores
ringworm, and makes , the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 206 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
arid Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist,,:
East Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
Condi, fid. extra. '
QUALITY SOCKS
FOR MEN. AUo socks
and Stockings for Ladies and
Children
m
Aa47
Quiet or bright colours,
plain or fancy textures
in neat new effects.
JN men’s wear there is "Jason” for every
taste. Some men like plain, unobtrusive socks,
others prefer an element of brightness; em-
broidery or fancy clocks. Others acain seek
vividness of contrasting bus. "Jason” can
satisfy every imaginable requirement in tfexture,
design and price.
Any pair you buy in the whole wide range is
a perfect example of craftmanship—in fit.
finish and appearance —lea\ ng nothing to be
desired. And remember its soft silkiness
of texture is a characteristic, exclusively
confined to "Jason " goods, Every pair
guaranteed unshrinkable,
Ask your dealer for ‘Jason* Socks
and Stockings. Have no others.
See the tab on every pair.
In case of difficulty come out without and write to
us. We will see you are supplied.
The Ja°on Hosiery Co M Leicester, Eng.
We invite you to buy a box of “De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
DeReszke
7&. C titf [ rffr'S
ON A JLINILtC, A KAtHIj
MOTOR BOAT, A CHANNEL
STEAMER, A COASTER OF
A TRADER
MOTHERSILL’S SEASICK REMEDY
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea Sick-
ness, or money refunded. Equally effective
for,Train Sickness.
;
m
m
has been tested on the English Channel, Iri=h
ant Baltic Seas by representatives of leadin
London and Continental newspapers, wiio
unreservedly endorse its unfailing power to
prevent and cure mal-de-mer.
“The London Yachting World” says: A posi-
tive cure for sea-sickness. Be sure it's ‘‘MothersiU’s.”
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD,
82. Pitt Street, Sydney.
X 11 >' 1' 111 W///'4
IPO
l»Mi7 s V^<ll“ ,
®T The most expensive
'' item in conned ion with
paint-work is the labour.
•Tj It pays better to paint
*' once with the best paint,
than several times with
inferior paint.
t Please note the only
paint like Pipolin is
Ripclin ; do not be put
off with a substitute.
AT Note the name, Pipolin,
" that is the paint that
does not require varnish
and goes farther, lasts
longer, and gives tetter
results than any other
paint.
RIPOIIN, LTD.,
35, .Minorie*,
London, England.
AGENTS FOR
PA I NT
Agent’s: L,. A. CORMACK,
Moorfoot Buildings,
5 Parker Street, Sydney.
PM.
7
*/a
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘AHABIS'
Egyptian Ilenna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.’’
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-n. Look for the signa-
tore of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price ]/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Anstralii).
%
W:
(
Here’s
the REASON
It matter's not how Rood a man’s
clothes are, he never looks correctly
attired unless his shoes are rightly
chosen.
This is the reason why well-dressed
men wear Abbey Shoes.
The illustration shows our latest
model, a Choice, Patent Oxford
Bah, with Dull Calf Begs. . 32/6
In Highest-grade Tan Willow
Calf 307-
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
Write for our Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between 0.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Rea4y!
Waterman's
(Ideal
Fount&inPen
<22
22
22
2 3
Hi
The
Busy
Writer’s Best Friend
In four types —Resru'ar, Safety, Self-Fil'in? and
Pump-Fillin?.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers evenm>he r e.
L. & C. IIARDTMUTH, Ltd., LONDON. En«.
(Australia : 350, George St. Sydney.!
W^oolcle*.
“ON THE HOP.”—-A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
l from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney,
The Inky Way.
“Trousers for Ever”: I have just dis-
covered a new humorous paper, The Scot,
at Hame and Abroad. Part of it is
written in broken English by a kilted jour-
nalist who signs himself “Lauchie Lang
Lugs.” Lauchie is evidently the “Answers
to Correspondents” demon of The Scot ;
but he-is a kindly functionary with a weak-
ness for breaking into verse. Hear him: —
D. M. M. Milburn (Maoriland) writes: “The Scot
comes tae haun’ a’ richt, an’, man, I enjoy it fine.”
Then D.M. breks intae rhyme thuslv: —-
I read each one from end to end,
And then to friends I did them lend,
An’ a’e Scots lassie said to me: '
“Tae us Scots folk hoo guid they be.”
That’s "no bad for a start, D.M., but Lauchie wad
like tae add a .line: —
Aye! aye! D.M., ye may depend
Ye’ll ayg hae frien’s while ye can lend;
But, ginsy’er frien’s enjoy The Scot
When they hae a free readin’ o’t,
Their pleasure wad be mair enhanced
Gin tliroe-an’-saxpence they advanced ;
Then we. an’ they wad shairly gain,
Gin ev’ry reader bocht his ain.
Pinna be blate f
Note the strange aboriginal curse with
which he begins this: —
My fogs'! -the Northcote Scots ken hoo tae hau’d on
tae a guid thing. They ha’e re-electit Blither Angus
for president. Aye! an’ they presentit him wi’ a
framed group o’ the officers an’ commytee, an’ whit
dae ye think? They hae mair nor seeventy pounds in
the bank—something tae crow aboot efter wan year
of existence. Aye! they’re a gran’ lot o’ lads oot
there, bit the lasses? Aw! hau’d yer tongue! They’re
.fist perfection. Oh ! Lauchie’s a guid judge, an’ ye
can talc’ his word for it.
Never again will I scoff when the musical
comedy triflers, garbed as Parisians, jabber
amongst themselves in pidgin English.
(from London) : Should Metho-
dists be blackleg journalists? The question
has just been debated by the English
Wesleyan Methodist Conference at Leeds.
A formal complaint had been submitted
by the National Union of Journalists that
a number of Methodist ’clergymen were
habitually doing reporting and other jour-
nalistic work for daily papers at reduced
rates. The matter was referred to a com-
mittee, which, after investigation, came to
the conclusion “that, while the Conference
had _po power to prevent ministers from
contributing to the press, it was undesir-
able, in| view of serious issues involved, that
they should personally compete with pro-
fessional journalists.” The committee added
the opinion that the remedy lay in the
hands of editors of newspapers. No doubt
it does, but this abuse is generally the result
of a working alliance between blackleg
editors and blackleg preachers. The con-
ference adopted the report of the committee,
but the pious expression of opinion that it
is advisable to cease taking the bread out of
.the mouths of working journalists will pro-
bably be ignored or conveniently forgotten
by all the reverend non-unionists concerned
in this most unchristian and uncharitable
competition. But cheap-labor journalism is
by no means the only secular arena in which
the Methodist minister “supplements his
income.” Rev. Dr. Workman, President
•of the Westminster Training College, who
took part in the debate, is a man likely to
know things, and he savs his brother parsons
also make a bit by organising excur-
sions and holiday tours, acting as commis-
sion agents and undertaking various other
assorted’ activities. _He appealed to the
conference to “strike decisively at all
secular occupations which interfered with
the proper work of the minister.” The
conference evidently thought that would he
a pretty big contract, and gave it the go-by.
No wonder that for eight years in succes-
sion the English Methodists have been de-
clining in numbers, and that the sect has
been described in one of the London Metho-
dist weeklies as “on the road to ruin.”
* * * *
London Daily News, being the property
of the cocoa-millionaire Quaker Cadbury,
a leading opponent e.f militarism and
scrap of every description, had an awk-
ward proposition to tackle in the cham-
pionship fight between Carpentier and
Gunboat Smith, at Olvmpia. The diffi-
culty was overcome by displaying, on page
1, a vigorous and whole-hearted denunciation
of the affair by Editor Gardner, as the “ugli-
est scene I have witnessed in my life, a foul
scene, a hateful scene, a scene'that I shall
never forget, and that I shall never remember
without a sense of shame.” And then, at the
end of the denunciation of the brute 1 and
degrading spectacle, came the announcement
in parentheses : “Full details of the fight will
be > found on page S'.” Thus the Quaker nro-
prietor and his co-religionists were propiti-
ated on one page, while the ungodly herd of
bruiser worshippers got all they wanted over
the leaf.
-i * * f
“8.J.H.0.”: The Jewish Evening News
Iwas born in London just before the war. The
author of its being was a Roumanian immi-
grant named Morris Myers, who a few
months ago started the Jewish Times. The
Fog has also the Jewish Journal, which
has been trying to interest and amuse Sliem,
Ham and Japheth for eight or nine years,
and tlie Daily Jewish Express, which be-
gan talking through its nose about 15 years
ago. All these papers are set by linotype
and printed, in Yiddish. A couple of them
make a good show of ads., and the Journal
claims, a daily circulation of 12.000. All
have their own standard of news values. The
Ulster business, for instance, was given
about the same space that the S. M. Herald
would devote to a moderately big strike at
Broken Hill; but news, say. of a pogrom in
Russia is leaded and rushed in with double
headlines.
* * * *
4 Tto the present boom in ring-fighting, the
gossipy journalist. G. R. Sims, recalls a
yarn of the interest taken in stoush a cen-
tury back. The story is that Thurtell. the
“gentlemanly” murderer of Weare in 1823,
having taken the sacrament, and having a
few minutes to wait for the scaffold, got the
obliging governor of Hertford Gaol to go out
and ascertain whether Tom Spring had
beaten Langan at Worcester the previous
day. He had. and Thurtell, on hearing it,
proceeded to die happily.
(Continued on page J/5.)


The Double-bed Dialogues.
HOW TO ACQUIRE A DOUBLE-BED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TRANGE how one gets used to things
—when one is married! Even when
one is married to Babette!
That night Babette did not hear my
knock on her bedroom door, and I entered
her room to discover my wife at that inter-
esting, if somewhat draughty, stage of a
woman’s disrobing when she is chiefly corset.
Unwittingly I viewed a panorama of Bab-
ette’s back. Now, the landscape of Babette’s
back-view is a subject for sonnets, an excuse
for lyrical rhapsodies. By a complicated
of mirrors Babette even man-
ages to admire it herself. But to me, her
husband, that night it did not contribute
.even a thrill. All I noted was that my wife,
;since her marriage, had begun to put on
flesh. The map had been drawn on a larger
. scale.
Of course I admired Babette’s. figure.
Even an archbishop would admire it. At
any rate Babette did, in addition to three
.dentists, two doctors and nine shop-walkers.
It is a harassing experience for a woman to
have so beautiful a figure as Babette.
That was why Babette was always chang-
ing her dentists and doctors. They would
: admire lier figure., And she could never
.shop in the same department of a shop
.twice. Babette was quite frank about it
.to me. She always repeated exactly what
the dentist or the curate had said —or,
rather, what he hadn’t said, but what he
had looked. Sometimes I have thought that
perhaps Babette was the teeniest bit to
'.blame. Unconsciously, I gently put it to
[her, she might have given them some en-
. couragement. But she indignantly replied
.that she couldn’t alter her figure; no en-
> couragement would suppress the least of her
.curves. No; she had just to suffer the adora-
tion she invariably inspired. She bore up
vunder it heroically, uncomplainingly. But
ithe stopping of one tooth of hers brought me
iin three dentists’ bills. “You see,” she
’.pathetically explained, “when you’re lying
iback in a dentist’s chair, you’re so help-
less, aren’t you?”
That explained to me why dentistry is
-such a popular profession. I have often
wished since that I had been a dentist. Or
a shop-walker. And the number of curates
who called to save Babette’s soul —of course,
sshe hadn’t a soul —proved to me that there
was a great deal of earnestness hidden
within the collar that buttons at the back.
Several curates, not finding Babette’s soul on
the surface, had tried to reach it by squeez-
ing Babette’s hand, or looking for it in
the depths of Babette’s soulful eyes. Ba-
bette found that it was almost as harassing
not to have a soul as to have a luscious
figure.
But this night I found myself admiring
Babette’s back in a purely artistic sense. I
didn’t rush to her and rapturously kiss her
corset laces. It was a very cold night, so
I merely slipped into bed. That is to say,
I merely wound the clock, removed the pil-
low-shams, placed Babette’s new hat under
the bed, gathered up her scattered hairpins,
turned back the coverlet without creasing
it, arranged the blinds, placed the matches
handy, tidied up the floor, shook her pillow
up, and slipped into bed.
Babette was certainly plumper. Not
fatter—that word is never mentioned in
married life. When I first met Babette
she was of that slight, ethereal, willowy,
.bendable, convenient build that allows you
vto clasp most of her with one arm, leaving
the other hand free to adjust her chin. Now
:'it required two arms —-not that it mattered
?at all, since now there was no need for ad-
justing her chin. It adjusted itself auto-
matically. Marriage had hurled Babette,
as it hurls most wothen, from one horn of
woman’s dilemma to the other. Every
slight woman wants to be fat: every plump
woman wails to be scraggy. .None, of them
\will ever admit that' she is just right.
When I fervently told Babette that I
Hiked her at her married weight—instead of
ibeing in the featherweight class she could
'qualify as a middleweight —she pathetically
(sighed. The more of her there, was the
vmore of her I had to love. Cubically she
was 18. per cent, more lovable. She said
that she hated statistics. ,
So now, observing Babette’s geographical
extent, I thrilled merely, aesthetically. I
contemplated contours with a mere town-
planner’s enthusiasm. And Babette did not
seem to mind. She simply didn’t care. She
did not even miss the usual kiss. Strange .
“Do you know, Babette,” I said, when she
had joined me in bed and snuggled herself
comfortable, “I was just thinking how
strange it is that I’ve grown used to you.
“Well, if marriage won’t make us used to
. each other, wliat’s it ' for anyway ?” she
laughed.
“Yes, but before we were married you
•were utterly mysterious to me, wonderful
rand strange —all women were. And you
were so different from all other women.”
“And now,” she almost sighed, “I’m just
like all the others.” 4
“No. But through you I seem to. have
discovered all the re?i of you. A wife is
like a dictionary to an unknown language—
the language of • womenv And before our
marriage all of you Was so hard to under-
stand...-and -you were untranslatable.”
“And now you know me off by heart?
“Yes, that’s the finest thing about it. It’s
like learning a new language—a great, won-
derful language.”
But Babette, thinking in her own lan-
guage, dropped from abstractions to our-
selves. “Those first few months!” she
sighed. “Why can’t we: have them all over
again? You were so wonderful, so differ-
ent. I used to be actually shy before you.
I used to flush when I. even thought of you.
I used even to be afraid “of you !”
“And now?”
Babette laughed—the confident laugh of
achievement. “You’re fonly a•. child, after
all —a little, clumsy child*. tb#t has got to be
humored and petted arid put up with. . And
once you were a hero! Dear old thing!”
And she slipped a happy kiss on to my
cheek. It was almost a contemptuous kiss —
most married kisses are.
“But those first few months!” she went
on. “How excited I was that evening we
were introduced! Fancy me getting ex-
cited over you now!”
“What I think, when I look back,” I said,
“is the sheer luck of meeting you at all. I
‘evenings.’ It was the merest chance
went that night. I didn’t know Kitty
very'%edl. I didn’t like her much. And yet
she me to her evening. Why? And
it happened that you wbye there that night
—though you weren’t often there. And then
we were introduced; Kitty introduced us just
as she introduced any ordinary persons.”
“Oh, no,”. said Babette, from the depths
of her woman’s knowledge. “No girl ever
introduces a man to a girl without a hope
that something will come of it.”
“But our meeting, casually like that, w r as
wonderful, wasn’t it?”
“It was wonderful,” Babette agreed. But
not so wonderful in the way I meant. “You
and I were bound to meet somehow, some-
where.”
“That’s true. Nothing could have kept us
apart. But it wasn’t mere chance. There
must be a purpose in the world, after all.”
And yet, as I uttered this platitude, I
felt mean. For, looking back on my court-
ship of Babette, I saw, in all its hideousness,
the long procession of meannesses and deceits
that I had practised upon innocent Babette.
The course of true love never runs smooth ;
but ours had —because I had dug, unsuspected
by her, my own channel for that stream. I
had deliberately imposed upon Babette’s
maiden ignorance. I had taken unfair ad-
vantage of her beautiful trustfulness. And
the fact that I loved her was no excuse; it
merely made my perfidy the more horrible.
I could love her and yet mislead her. I
could make her my wife under false pre-
tences.
That first evening, when I had met her at
Kitty’s “evening,” my long course of devi-
ousness began. When by the merest chance
we found ourselves temporarily isolated in
CATTISH.
MAUD (pettishly) : “Oh! I wish I were a man! Td love nothing better than to be a
soldier and to fight for my country
ETHRL : “No doubt you'd make a good one. You're well used to powder, you know."
that cosy corner of the verandah —and how
beautiful my Babette bad looked against
the cushions that miraculously matched her
dress!—I had lied to her. I had told her
I hated music, and though I knew she was
yearning to go back with me to the singing
in the drawing-room, she had politely stayed
out there with me. I don’t know what
Kitty said to her afterwards : it was Ivitty s
“evening,” and Babette was her show guest,
and the dear angel allowed me to monopolise
her in that selfish way, though I could see
she was thinking of that other chap, John.
And, as I soon found out, John was in love
with her all the time.
Later on, too, though Babette tried not
to let me see, I discovered that she was see-
ing quite a lot of John. Decent fellow,
too; but he did not understand Babette as
I did. Women Why, the ordin-
ary man can see right through a woman, if
he only, looks into her eyes. Poor, innocent
child, she . was deeply troubled about John.
He loved her as much as I did ; but he did
not understand her crystal innocence as I
did. ‘ And" she was wavering, yes, she had
confessed it before we were married ; and if
I had not proposed at the very time I did I
believe I would have lost her. That is
where the man who understands woman
beats the fellow'who doesn’t mix his adora-
tion with masculine guile. Poor Babette,
I reflected as I felt her soft arm beneath
my neck, I had won' her, and she was
happy ; but one doesn’t set into matrimony,
any more than one gets into politics, with
clean hands. Well. I would make it up to
her. The end had justified the means.
Yes, my love for her had been rather
mixed. Like a cocktail, all sorts of things
were in it, giving it a flavor, without which
Babette would never have drunk the main
ingredient of love. That night when, all
unsuspecting, she had allowed me to lead
her out into the garden at that dance, and,
against her better instincts, .she had been
persuaded to sit out that dance in that sum-
mer-house. I could see that she had never
been there before —it was such a lonely and
unlit summer-house that I would never have
discovered it if a partner earlier in the even-
ing had not taken me there. Of course, I
knew why that other partner had taken me
there —she’s married now —and I had kissed
her according to the conventions of sitting-
out in lonely summer-houses ; but that girl
would have been surprised if she had known
that in the act of kissing her —in her strug-
gles, of course, she slid on to my knee —-I
was merely thinking what a lovely place it
was for me to kiss Babette in. It was a
kind of dress rehearsal —and I needed one,
because I hadn’t then kissed Babette at all.
That girl had been well rehearsed.
And then I led the unsuspecting Babette
to the slaughter-house. Poor child, she must
have had a vague suspicion of me, for at
first she refused to come there, but I over-
persuaded her; and she entered its dark-
ness supremely trusting in my honor. And
then I kissed her —not in the least as suc-
cessfully as I had kissed that other girl.
But then Babette was innocent: that other
girl was different. Babette struggled: the
other girl had struggled, too ; but it was
easy to see that that girl’s struggle was only
pretence. It was her method of getting on
to my knee —so that I could kiss her more
comfortably. Yet my rehearsal was of use,
even in Babette’s case, for, when she strug-
gled I managed to draw her on to my knee,
and kissed her more comfortably. I daresay
that to this day she had no suspicion how
she came to be sitting in that position with
her lips so easily accessible. Yet, lying
there in bed, conscious of Babettfe’s delici-
ous nearness, I felt mean. It was by suoh
guile that I had got her to share with me
that double-bed.
Even my proposal I had arranged with a
diabolical cunning. I had picked out the
very spot a week before, and I had arranged
that she and I would be there on a certain
evening. I will admit that chance favored
me. If Babette’s shoe lace hadn’t hap-
pened to come unloosed just as we were pass-
ing that shady spot it would have been some-
what difficult to suggest that we should sit
down beneath that tree without raising her
suspicions. But I would have made her
stop, anyway. And then I deliberately
kissed her; and, as I had foreseen, she was
shocked —for she had told me I must never,
never again, etc., and I had faithfully sworn
that I never would. That was the one con-
dition she had insisted upon when I asked
her to come to that concert. (We never got
to that concert.)
Then I humbly apologised. But, instead
of Babette forgiving me, as she regularly
used to —really, though she did not analyse
her sensations, she liked me to kiss her, but
wouldn’t admit the shameful fact to herself,
and, naturally, I never let her see that I
knew —this night she actually got angry and
said she’d go straight home if I couldn’t
behave as I had faithfully promised. But I
grovelled before her, and at last she forgave
me and even kissed me in token of her for-
giveness—a light touch of a butterfly’s wing
—not a real kiss at all. And we sat down
on a bank, and I pointed out to her in a
dispassionate way that the grass might be
wet —though, goodness knows (though I
didn’t, then) that she had more thicknesses
of clothing on just there than I had. So I
got her quite unsuspiciously to sit on my
knee, and then I worked up another quarrel,
I forget about what. I wanted the delici-
ous happiness of making it up again. When
a woman is magnanimously forgiving you
she is so much more easy to manage. This
evening she felt so magnanimous that her
sisterly kiss tremulously melted into the
other kind, and before I had really thought
out what I was going to say I had said it.
The moment I had done it I knew I had
made a mistake. I shouldn’t have rushed
things like that. I should have gently led
up to the subject, instead of blurting out
my proposal and shocking Babette. She
was awfully surprised. Of course, with my
knowledge of woman, I should have expected
that; but I was in love with Babette, I
knew she liked me, and I suppose I forgot
how sudden my declaration must have
seemed to her innocent soul. I had made
no allowances for her appalling ignorance of
her own heart. I had gathered that, in a
shy, frightened way, she might have looked
mistily into the future and vaguely consid-
ered the possibility that some time I might
like her enough to marry her; but, being a
woman, she was content just to go on being
friends, happy in the present. I overlooked
that in my state of mind, and risked more
than I knew in proposing so soon. Three
months later she mieht have been more pre-
pared ; but I couldn’t have wasted three
months. Luckily, it turned out all right. It
is true that she did not give me my answer
that night. She was too much affected by
the shock to make any definite promise. But
she admitted that she liked me, oh, very
much.... but, as a husband that, of
course was a bigger thing. We compro-
mised by the arrangement that I was to con-
sider myself engaged to her, and she was to
give the matter of her engagement to me
very earnest consideration. And I loved
her' the more for taking it so seriously.
My thoughts had kept me silent. I looked
to see whether Babette had fallen asleep.
But she was wide awake, evidently think-
ing, too.
“No,” I said, taking up the discussion
where I had left it, “it wasn’t chance that
brought us together. There must be a pur-
pose in the world.”
“I’ve beep thinking, too,” my wife gravely
said. “There was a purpose that brought
us together.” She hesitated a moment.
Then I felt her body stiffen itself, as if she
had taken a great resolution. “There was
a purpose— my purpose.”
“Your purpose?” I asked in surprise.
, “Yes, I had made up my mind to meet
you.” • __ ~
“But you didn’t know me. You d never
seen me.”
“I had heard about you.”
“But who?” ,
“Kitty. She told me about you a week
before. She rang me up, and told me that
she’d met such a nice sort of man —just the
sort of man, she said, that would suit me.
“So it was all a put-up job?” I blankly
said.
“That sort of thing always is.
‘-‘Well, at any rate, Kitty was self-sacri-
ficing, wasn’t she?”
Babette spoke sharply. “Why, did you t
“No,” I admitted. “I just liked her.
“I know. Kitty told me herself. She
said she had given you a chance; but she
saw at once that she wasn t your sort. So,
after giving you a fair trial, she had begun
to look ab.out for someone else.”
“For me? I like that!”
“No, for herself. But she thought it
would be a pity to waste you—you were just
the sort that would be snapped up by a
silly, pretty face. And, though I wasn t
her best friend, she knew that I
adored deep blue eyes and large
hands, so she thought it would be worth
while giving me a chance. She told me
all she knew about you—described y<m,
though her description wasn’t half nice
enough ; and so we fixed it all up. I went
to see her that evening and we discussed the
best way of meeting you. So much depends
on a first impression, doesn’t it? At first
she thought of a tennis party; but I’m such
a fool at tennis, and a tennis costume doesn t
give my neck and shoulders a fair chance.
And I get so hot at tennis, and the powder
comes off. So I stuck out for evening
dress. At first we thought of a theatre-
party ; but at a theatre you’ve got to waste
so much time pretending to listen to the
play, haven’t you? And there’s too much
profile in the stall seats; and Im not
exactly proud of my profile. A dance would
have been the ideal thing, of course, > but
there wasn’t a danCe in sight for a fortnight.
And I was feeling very lonely. I’d just re-
fused John—this time, finally ; and the poor
dear was taking it rather seriously. And
I’d got so to depend on him taking me about
and giving me afternoon tea in town and
paying my tram-fares that I felt quite
miserable and lost. A man doesn t under-
stand how lonely a girl feels when she
hasn’t got someone hopelessly m love with
her. I had that feeling more than once
since I came out —once it lasted for nearly
two months. I was just on the point ot
writing him a nice, motherly letter, telling
him how sorry I was for him, but that I
could never, never —you. know, just enough
encouragement to keep him on the string and
suggesting that though I could never, never
.. I’d be at home the following evening,
when Kitty rang up about you. So it had
to be an evening-though I hate evenings
I can’t carry on conversation with a crowd
—unless it’s a crowd of one. Kitty and!
spent an afternoon making out the list ot the
invited. I insisted on John being asked.
He couldn’t help showing that he loved me,
and you couldn’t help seeing it. And, if we
didn’t like each other, he would be so useful
to fall back upon. And I wouldn t let
Kitty invite that Pearson girl—though she
is Kitty’s best friend. She s pretty, of
course, but she’s got those gentle, appealing
ways—and I wouldn’t trust any man when
those appealing ways are attached to a figure
that has appealing ways, too.
“But,” I said, “it was your appealing ways
and your figure’s appealing ways that got
me “Exactly,” Babette agreed. “That Pear-
son girl is too much like me for me not to
see through her. Well, at any rate, I savei
you front her.” ~ T ,
“And saved her from me, I laughed.
“Yes. well, we fixed it up for that'Thurs-
day. Kitty thought I ought to have a new
dress, but I decided to wear my old pink.
You see, it would be new to.yon; and J
could keep the new dress for the first
we went to. Besides, the pink- hadn t any
shoulder-straps, either.”
“And wasn’t it lucky? The moment I saw
y °“B I ut hl you y never showed it in the least,
Babette.” ,
(Continued on next page.)


Amusements.
pAI, A C K TIIIS A T'H IS. 8VI)N IS Y.
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
SPECIALLY ORGANISED DRAMATIC COMPANY
in E. BROOKE WARREN’S Sensational Melodrama,
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
BOX PLAN at Paling’s. Prices of Admission: 3/-,
2/- and 1/- (except Saturday). Early Doors 6d.
extra.
D I II C »i & C A It It O U I,
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers. !
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the. Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking .Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia'Ltd.
Ure An Orr Ton: ROTTIWKLL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
.
mi
The Mandel-ette Camera
is made by the originators of instantaneous
Photography. This wonderful CAMERA takes
and finishes Postcard Photographs 2*in. x 3iin.
in ONE MINUTE, WITHOUT TIN PLATES,
FILMS, DARKROOM OR PRINTING. NO
EXPERIENCE REQUIRED. The MANDEL-
ETTE CAMERA makes Photography a pleasure
because it is so simple. A child" can operate it
and make pictures.
Complete Outfits, consisting of the CAMERA
TRIPOD, DEVELOPER, GRADUATE GLASS
and PACKET of POSTCARDS, with full instruc-
tions, post free to any address in Australia on
receipt of £3/10/- Agents for Australasia—
Mandel-ette Cameras, 24 Bond St., Sydney
Parlors Quoits
A Splendid and Exciting Home Game
Strong and Durably Built
Everybody likes Rope Quoits, but it is too rough and
noisy for the home circle. This Clever Game of Parlor
Quoits is just as interesting and everyone can play It,
young and old, with unfailing zest. There is a post or
'peg upon which the rings are thrown, a goal or pit to
catch the rings, a rear fence to keep the rings on the
table, six metal rings and a mechanical pitcher, very
clever and strongly built, with which the rings can be
thrown with great precision when, once the knack ris
acquired, but it needs some skill and practice. Any
number of players can compete and there are two kinds
of games, both very exciting To make it quickly
known we will sell 100 sets at only, Half-a-Crown
each, packed in a nice box with full directions, we pay
carriage The regular price will be 5/6 Send at once
or you may be disappointed Obtainable only from
The Union Co., 899 Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres lAd.
Governing' Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
"T IVO I I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 PAUL CINQUEVALLI, L’lncomparable.
FATIMA. RICH & GALVIN.
EUGENE DAMOND. MARSHALL CROSBY.
AL HERMAN, “Tjie Black Laugh.”
VAUDE & VERNE ; TED MERCELL : POWER BROS. ;
MARCO & FAUCHON WOLFF.
HAMMON & WYATT. WELCH & CARBASSE.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson's.
“piYORI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FLORENCE SMITHSON.
STELLING & REVELL. TOM KELLY.
JEROME & CARSON. RALPH ERROLLE.
ROBERTS & LESTER. DEXTER.
PHIL KAUFMAN. I)E DIO. ADELE BARTLETTE.
Box Plan at Glen's. PRICES: 4/-■ 3/'-, 2/-, !/-•
JIVOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
RUSSELL & HELD. THE FOUR BOISES.
DUSTY RHODES. TEDDY.
TORINO. CARPATU BROS.
HARRY TAFT.
WALTER MELROSE. .
|4 E R SI A J E S T Y ’ S, SYDNEY.
* 1 Direction J. C. AVJLLTAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
THE NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY COMPAN Y
In a Musical Play in Three Acts,
THE GIRL IN THE TAXI.
PLANS AT PALING’S'.
T II E A T R E R <) Y A 1,. S Y I) N E Y
1 ' • EVERY EVENING,' AT 7.45.
NELLIE STEWART as Mme. DU BARRY
In George Musgrove’s production of BELASCO’S
Great Play,
DU BAJI B Y.
Supported by Mr. Clarence Blakiston, Mr. Lewis
Willoughby and a big company of well-known
favorites.
PRICES AS USUAL.
A I) EI,I* II I TIIE A T RE. SYI) N 15 V.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, in conjunction with E. J.
CARROLL, presents, for the first time in Sydney,
the most talked about play in America, entitled
THE ROSABX
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
IMPERIAL SALON I)E LUXE
■ Manager: MICHAEL JOSEPH.
DANCING
EYE 11 Y EVENING.
PRICES AS USUAL.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The picture block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
Tlie finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m,
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD’..
W. Baiiiiington Mini, Kit. General Manager.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 19-
WILLIAM ANDERSON presents the Novel Patriotic’
Play,
THE FIGHTING SQUADRON..
POPULAR PRICES,. .
lilt MAJESTY’S TII EATItli. MELBOURNE-
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Lm.
EVERY EVENING AT 8-
ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in
GIPSY LOVK
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is..
II E A T It E ROYAL, MELBOURNE,
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19.
THE SIGH OF THE CROSS,
FOR TWELVE NIGHTS ONLY.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
ItINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8..
GEO. WILLOUGHBY) LTD., present, in conjunction
with Beaumont Smith and Louis Meyer,
WHO’S THE LADY?
The Famous French Farcical Success.
Prices: D.C. and R.S., 7/6. Plan at Pianola.
IJOU T H E A T It E, ME L B O U R N 1
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN J. FULLER,
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON,’2.3O. EVENING AT 8.
LYONS & CULLUM. GEO. MURPHY.
THE GREAT WESTIN. PEARL LIVINGSTONE.
CARPOS BROTHERS. DOROTHY HARRIS.
LESLIE & SOL BERN., SUMNER.
JACKOLEW RUSSIAN TRIO.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & 60.
Melbourne repertory theatre
Direction , GREGAN McMAHON.
At the ATHENAEUM HALL.
SATURDAY & MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 & 28.
MRS. PRETTY AND THE PREMIER.
An Australian Comedy, by ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY, OCT. 1, 2 & 3.
JOY, a Play by JOHN GALSWORTHY.
Box Plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers’ Librarv
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
ORI U M, ME LBOU R N E.
RETURN VISIT OF THg FAMOUS BARITONE,
PETER DAWSON.
First Concert—SATURDAY - NEXT, SEPT. 19.
Second Concert—THURSDAY, SEPT. 24.
Third Concert—FßlDAY, SEPT. 25.
Fourth Concert—SATURDAY, SEPT. 26.
Prices: 35., 2s. and Is. Plans Allan’s.
Direction; J. and N. TAIT.
“I should think not. I couldn’t be as im-
modest as that. Kitty knew that moment.
But it didn’t matter about me. The main
thing was that you let me see you liked me.”
“Do you know, Babette,” I wondered. “I
can’t remember what we talked about that
first wonderful evening. And we must have
talked quite a lot.”
“Oh, just conversation. Silly questions
and answers. We had to do something
to keep our eyes from blurting out the truth.
All the time I was wondering how it would
feel when you kissed me.”
“But I didn’t kiss you that evening.”
“Oh, yes, you did. I invented that kiss
while we were chatting.”
I was surprised. I had invented that kiss,
too, while we were chatting. I told Babette,
and she sighed happily.
“If I’d only known, then,” she added, “it
would have saved me so much worry after-
wards. There were times when I even
thought that you didn’t love me.”
“You couldn’t have!” I said.
“Oh, I knew you loved me, but what I
wasn’t quite sure of was whether you loved
me enough—enough to marry me.”
“I see. But, all the same, it was luck
that we were left alone in the corner of that
verandah while the others were singing,
wasn’t .it?”
“Not luck,” smiled Babette; “good man-
agement. Kitty is a splendid manager. Of
course, I had to pay her. She whispered to
me as I was leaving that she was going to
be my chief bridesmaid.”
“And she was.”
“Yes; but it wasn’t all plain sailing for
Kitty or me. Often we miserably wondered
whether there was going to be a wedding at
all. You were so slow, weren’t you?”
“Was I?” I asked in surprise.
“Jim Hastings beat you by three weeks,
and even John came up to scratch ten days
before you—and regularly every fortnight
after that till I switched him off.”
“But when I did speak, you said” —
“ 'This is so sudden !’ ” Babette laughed.
“No.” I protested.
“Well, something that meant tdie same
thing. All girls do. What I really said to
myself was, ‘Thank goodness, that’s over.’
All girls do. We have to pretend. All love-
making is pretence, isn’t it? That’s the fun
of it. Suppose I had known from the
that you meant to marry me, and suppose you
had known from the first that I meant to
marry you, where would the excitement have
come in?”
“I see,” I slowly said. “It would' have
been just as dull as being married.”
“Exactly.” Babette smilingly agreed.
“Love is only a game, and has to be played
by the rules. The lucky thing is that every
girl knows the rules off by heart. Do you
remember that night we sat out a dance,, and
I ruined a new pair of satin slippers walking
with you in the wet grass? I didn’t mind
that. I knew that you’d pay me back when
we were married. A girl has to make sacri-
fices, hasn’t she? Well, when you sug-
gested that -we might as well sit the dance
out in the garden, I knew you wanted to
kiss me—but I didn’t let you see I wanted
you to kiss me, If I had you wouldn’t have.
So I wouldn’t go to that shady summer-house.
I’d been there the dance before. I’d man-
oeuvred my partner to take me there, just to
see if it was a safe place for you to kiss me
iu and the poor man mistook himself for
you. Perhaps I was to blame —a little. It
was a kind of dress rehearsal, but. it was a
bit too realistic for me. I had to powder up
again before I came to you.”
“But you did go there,” I reminded her.
“Of course, you stupid. After having the
dress rehearsal. But didn’t my reluctance
to go make you all the more eager to go?
And, goodness me, when you did kiss me,
how shocked I was !”
“I felt a brute the minute I had done it,”
I admitted. “I wanted to grovel to you.”
“I was shocked, really. Shocked at the
bungle you had made of that kiss. But I
daren’t have helped you. I had to dodge.
Silly, wasn’t it? And I had to pretend to
be tremendously angry with you. But at
last I pardoned you, and just to show you
that I trusted you. I made you sit down by
me. And then, of course, you tried again.
And I struggled.”
“Pretence!” I said bitterly. “But how I
loved to feel you struggling in my arms!”
“And how I loved you holding me!” Bab-
ette snuggled nearer. “That’s why I strug-
gled so determinedly. And then, somehow—-
to this day I can’t tell how I managed it so
well—in my efforts to escape I found myself
on your knee. And neither of us admitted
even to ourselves that I was sitting on your
knee.”
“Pretence!” I sighed.
“Glorious pretence !” Babette cried. “And
the more I struggled the more comfy I was
making myself on your knees. And, quite by
accident, my lips found yours—you were so
clumsy I had to help—and I quite forgot to
take them away.’’
“And nobody mentioned it,” I mournfully
smiled.
“That wasn’t exactly the right time for
conversation, was it? That sort of silence
is golden.”
“And then, at last, I asked you to kiss
me back,” I reminded her.
“And I sternly refused, didn’t I ? As if
there was any beginning or end of that sort
of kiss, or as if I wasn’t doing iny full share
all the time. A kiss isn’t a kiss unless both
help. Nobody could possibly tell exactly
where your kiss ended or mine began.”
“I didn’t want to,” I reminded Babette;
My wife sighed happily. “Oh, isn’t it
mvely t 9 be able to confess like this. It’s
ike taking off a new corset. There’s such
sense of relief in just letting vourself
mow over.”
“Well,” I spurred her, “while you’re con-
fessing, you might tell me the truth about
John. I was frightfully jealous of John.”
“Oh, John!” Babette paused. I had a
dim suspicion that she was sorting otit the
things that she might tell me about John
and the things that it would only worry me
to know. “Oh, I only used John to shake
you up. You were so slow. You don’t know
how self-sacrificing a girl has to be if she
wants to get married. I wasted three-weeks
over John —and, except when he’s proposing,
we haven’t a single subject in common.
Luckily, he was always proposing, so I
wasn’t very bored.”
“If it hadn’t been for John,” I mused, “I
wonder. . . . ?”
“I often wonder, too,” said Babette sim-
ply. “But I couldn’t have been so happy.”
Having given her the usual kiss, and got
from her a quite unusual kiss, I went on.
“But everything wasn’t pretence. That
night I proposed!”
“Did you?” Babette sedately asked.
“Of course—otherwise it’s hardly moral
for you to be here.”
“But, tell me, dear, frankly. You didn’t mean
to propose that particular night, did you?”
“Of course, I arranged it all.”
“Really!” Babette seemed surprised.
“You see, I had made up my mind that
that sort of thing couldn’t go on for ever.”
“What sort of thing?”
“Cuddling you for hours every second
evening.”
“I often wished it would,” Babette sighed.
“But both Kitty and I agreed that it was
just a phase, pleasant to linger over, but a
waste of time unless it led to business. Kitty
and I often talked it over. You see, there
are limits to the area of a nice girl a young
man is allowed to kiss, and sometimes it
seemed to me that you had reached those
limits.”
I dared not hint that sometimes it had
seemed to me —afterwards —that different
interpretations might have been put by other
people upon the legal limits.
Babette, perhaps, had the same thought.
She sighed reminiscently. “I used to powder
inches lowey those evenings. But it wasn’t
wrong, surely?”
“Nice, 7 but not naughty,” I agreed.
“I told Kitty that it was air right, quite
conventional, in fact, if you were going to
marry me* Kitty said that that was just
the point. Were you, or weren’t you? She
said that- you had ' seen enough of me to
decide. You know you did see a good deal
of me, didn’t you? And I liked you to.
Shameless of ine, wasn’t it? But I’m
married' now, and can tell the truth. So
Kitty and I arranged that you’d propose to
me that week. We fixed upon the night you
were going to take me to the concert.”
“That night?” I gasped.
“Well, it came off all right,” Babette
laughed. “Everything went swimmingly,
didn’t: it?”
“But,” I sternly asked, “let us be quite
clear. You mean to say that you arranged
for me to propose that night?”
“Of course —but Kitty helped with sug-
gestions. That was why I wanted to.know
whether you had fixed on that night, inde-
pendently, too? Or whether any old night
would have suited you as we 11.... or
whether you hadn’t decided to propose at all ?”
“I meant to propose that night,” I sternly
asserted. “I arranged everything.”
“What a coincidence!” Babette cried.
“Fancy the whole three of us fixing on the
same night ! You’re right, there is a pur-
pose in this world. But what a lot of worry
it would have saved Kitty and me if we’d
only known! And how it would have re-
lieved you, if you’d only known! So much
pretence in love, isn’t there? And fancy
you picking out the same tree to pro-
pose under that Kitty and I had selected ! It
makes you almost believe in the God of Love.”
“Yes,” I said savagely. “But how would
you have got me to propose if I hadn’t sug-
gested our going under that tree? I might
not have stopped. I might just have taken
you straight to the concert.’
“Oh, Kitty and I arranged all that. Don’t
you remember my shoelace had come undone,
and me asking you to tie it up—though I
certainly didn’t ask you to smooth my stock-
ing while you were about it. I had carefully
untied that lace before we started. And
then....and then I pretended that I was
shocked, and made you apologise. A girl
can always manage a man so much more
easily when he’s humble. And I got angry,
and said I’d go straight home if a man
wasn’t fit to be trusted with a nice girl on
a moonlight night in such a lonely spot as
that, with no possible chance of anybody
interrupting them. And I pointed out
—that shows how angry I was —that even
if you prevented me from going to the con-
cert at all, nobody would know we hadn’t
been, that practically I was in your power
all the evening—which was all the more
reason for your behaving yourself and tak-
ing no advantage of a trusting girl. And,
then, just to show how much I could trust
you—just to shame you—l kissed you back
in a sisterly way. And then I sat down on
the bank, and when you pointed out that
the grass might be wet I had to sit on your
knee, hadn’t I? I had tried that on with
another man once before, so that I knew it
would work.”
“Oh, it worked all right,” I said miserably.
“And then, as things were getting rather
slow—and we only had two and a half hours
to ourselves—l managed to quarrel with you
again.”
“What was the quarrel about?” I wanted
to know.
“I quite forget. All I know was that
every time you made it up you got nicer and
more manageable. And then, suddenly, I
said to myself, ‘Time’s up !’and found myself
in your aiyns. And you blurted It out. I
won a box . of chocolates from Kitty that
night. She had bet me it wouldn’t happen
for another week.”
“But you really were surprised,” I insisted.
“I was astonished. It was so easy. I
coukL have managed it a month earlier. I
had wasted, a whole month.”
“But why didn’t you accept me definitely
that night?” I asked.
“And get done with all the excitement in
one evening? I wanted it all over again the
next night.” *
“Well, you got it, Babette.” My innocent
Babette! “Well, as you have been so frank,
I don’t mind being frank, too. There’s a
thing I often wanted to tell you. Immedi-
ately after I had proposed—l mean, just
after you had proposed—for one moment I
was afraid. I had done it! And I felt a
sickening trickle of fear right down my
spine. I had taken the great jump—and I
hadn’t the least idea where I was going to
land, or how far down the bottom was. Any-
how. I couldn’t get back. And I comforted
myself by that thought—that, anyhow, I
couldn’t get back.”
“Did you really feel like that?” Babette
curiously asked. “So did I.”
“And here we are,” she added happily
and sleepily. “It wasn’t a bad sort of place
we landed on, either this double-bed.”
HENRY JAMES JAMES.
Randolph Bedford: “Henri Singemoine”
takes me to task for citing W. H. Kelly as
“a terrible example of a little man who
didn’t have to work for a living.” Knowing
my own meaning, which “11.5.” will not see,
I take back not a word of it. W.K.’s de-
meanor in Parliament, his insulting affecta-
tion of superiority over the more or less
working men of the other side, prove his
“terrible example”-ness. But everything is
comparative, and I did not say that W.HJv.
is not better than a dipsomaniacal remit-
tance man, or better than the rich and rene-
gade Australians who live in London and
run down Australia as a mistaken means
of currying favor with their British
acquaintances, or the trust makers, or the
rough house specialists, or the police bribers.
He is a much better man than all these;
but that doesn’t affect his tremendous airs
of superiority to other politicians.
“Y.Z.” writes from Melbourne: —
The war has produced a few cases of curious funk
in our vicinity. Opposite me lived two spinsters of
the middle-ages, sisters, of Irish extraction, heiresses
to a fortune their hairy Kerry parent accumulated
from Cow. When the scare first hit this State, and
many people were expecting hunches of primitive
Prussians armed with siege guns to invade their
bedrooms at night, these afflicted twin sisters did
their most important valuables up in bales and took
to the hills out from Morwell. But before going, the
wise virgins instructed a dull mechanic to put up a
sign in the front garden before the deserted home.
The faithful henchman complied, and the sign' is
there now. The notice is in a foreign tongue. The
other day I took a transcript of it, and invited my
friend Pfaffstein to impart its significance. It trans-
lates : “Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted. Beware of
the Dog!” and is done in German!
Another interesting item is a small, sallow subject'
who haunts the St. Kilda foreshore, or perches out on
the Red Bluff, with a pair of opera glasses, greedily
inspecting the bay. He is rather a shabby unit. His"
boots look as if they had -been shelled by a destroyer
and had foundered with all on board. Apparently he'
has nothing to do but sit on an eminence out in the
open and scan the horizon minutely from early morn
till dewy eve. His opera-glasses are small, and of
no particular use in research work, but the im-
material object has great faith in them. I thought
he was studying the European situation, and made
first-hand inquiries. “What'in I doin’?” he said.
“Why, I’m a-lookiri fer the Germans. They don’t
catch me nappin’, When. I see ’em with these I
signals to the missus to run and draw me money.”
He showed me his signalling apparatus. It was a
Chinese cracker 1


HI FELL OUT
TWO BALD SPOTS
Child Lay and Cried with Pain.
Itching Dreadful. Unable to
Sleep, Used Cuticura Soap and
Ointment. Clear of Skin Trouble,
Marton, N. Z.--“My little brother’s
head came out in a sort of rash and had
festered heads and the hair began to fall
out, in fact he had two bald spots, not a
hair to be seen. He sulfered from this
trouble for about eighteen months, and I
rubbed the Cuticura Ointment on the bald
patches and within ten days the hair was
growing, and now I am pleased to say the
hair on those spots is the same as the other.
The poor little fellow used to lie in bed and
cry with the pain, and the itching was
dreadful and he was unable to sleep. We
had tried other remedies, ointments and
lotions, etc., but of no use, but since using
Cuticura Ointment and Soap he has been
clear of any sort of skin trouble. I used to
rub the Cuticura Ointment on my brother’s
head and then wash it with the Cuticura
Soap.
“ When I know of anyone who is suffering
from anything of the same or similar com-
plaints I always advise them to use Cuti-
cura Remedies, as they are sure to cure.”
(Signed) Miss Mary Evans, July 13, 1912.
For red, rough, chapped and bleeding
hands, itching, burning palms, and painful
finger-ends with shapeless nails, a one-night
Cuticura treatment works wonders. Direc-
tions: Soak hands, on retiring, in hot water
and Cuticura Soap. Dry, anoint with Cuti-
cura Ointment and wear soft bandages or
old, loose gloves during the night. They
are equally effective for the skin, scalp and
hair. Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment are sold throughout the world. Lib-
eral sample of each mailed free, with 32-p.
Skin Book. Address R. (Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Puts Stomach,
Liver and Bowels
in Fine Condition
To prof ptly end the misery of consti-
pation to/pid liver, sick headache, indi-
gestion, dizziness and nausea, you must
use CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS. They
never fail —that’s why
millions use them.
Vim, vigor,vitality,
and a clear com-
plexion are the
resultoftheir
use. You
need them.
ã
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The
GENUINE
must bear
signature
ä
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN S (u.s.a.>
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
Cigar and Cigarette
Smoßers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped —Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue,
PATTINGELL U CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I;
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of freehold or Leasehold C!ity
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borroweis the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Diri
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes :
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron ‘Jelloids’ without danger,
“ even with pleasure, and with the sure
“knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “ MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (called Iron ‘Jelloids’
“ No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
_
t. '•
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness-accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—-constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anaemia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
e
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anremia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust ”in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take.
A Reliable Tonic
Miss A. Morris, Devonshire House, Richmond Hill, Bournemouth, ivri’es:
“ I have derived great benefit from Iron ‘ Jelloids. I took them for weakness,
and am now enjoying good health. 1 hey have done me a great deal of
good. Iron‘Jelloids’are delightful to take; they give one a very good
appetite and strength.”
A Fortnight’s Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
IRON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Adults, Men and Women ;
No. 2a (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82, Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only by
The * Jelloid’ Co., 205, City Rd., London, England.
1
Texend
i BRACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort , Sfy/e
Af first class shops ,
$
TsP-J
\Si
Prizes Value £4OOO in the
8-Hour Art Union & Sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General).
DRAWN OCTOBER 81, 1914.
Ist Prize, value £B5O. 2nd Prize, value £4OO.
3rd Prize, value £3OO. And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won hv Mr. D. C. Morrison,
Balmain, Svdnev, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of ONE
SHILLING.
GET A TICKET & HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1914.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 5.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list
of the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from
Agents in all towns, or direct from
JOHN W. DOYLE, Secretary, Trades Hall, Sydney.
“Ilamer” : When the war became such an
engrossing topic that even divorce cases went
unreported, the legion of lines-men on the
various daily papers went clean out. Very
few of them are men of providence (most
of them have very little to be provident
upon), and the rejection of their screeds
hit them immediately. They had the satis-
faction, however, of reading in the papers
for which they usually wrote urgent appeals
to the patriotism of employers to refrain
from placing men out of work. The incon-
sistency of the daily newspaper owners
didn’t stop merely at the neglect of these
men. One of the Sydney dailies put off,
while its appeal to employers was in full
blast, 25 persons employed in vari-
ous departments. lint it was the advertising
men who suffered most. Advertising fell
down heavily, and for about the first time
on record the journalist felt no cause to envy
the man on the business side of newspaper
work.
* * * #
“Ivaniva” : The weekly paper which was to
wake things up in Melbourne, the Victorian,
has fizzled out. At the start it had very little
to recommend it, and its progress did not
fulfil expectations. Whether the biggest
trouble was want of capital, or want of
brains, or want of push, or just plain, bad
luck, makes no difference to the tombstone.
When a paper is dead it matters very little
what it died of.
“Plattypussy”: Among the first to feel
the effects of the war were the Maoriland
newspaper companies. These concerns, sud-
denly found themselves confronted with a
shortage of the material with which the
meat is enveloped. If the trade routes to
Canada are blocked, the American stories
printed on Canadian paper, which are the
“Christmas Numbers” of the patriotic
printeries of Maoriland, will be off this
year. It is amusing to see an illustration
in one recent weekly representing a Maori-
land paper mill. It was printed on the
imported material which the aforesaid mills
are capable of producing themselves. What’s
the matter with the proprietors of M.L.
papers supporting local industry in the
paper-making business. Also they could, at
a pinch, patronise the local literature-pro-
ducing business.
* * * *
“Map of Europe” : Where are all the news-
paper military experts comine from? Two
or three years ago, Australia took only the
most .perfunctory interest in defence, and
military or naval news of any kind was a
sort of curiosity. A smart man might have
searched for a week with bloodhounds and
ferrets without scaring out half a
dozen pressmen with special knowledge
of war. Now every rag is full of
chatter—-not to say gabble—about fleets,
frontiers, gunnery, army corps, tactics
and the rest of it. Every newspaper
man feels a bit of a humbug now and again—-
it is one of the penalties of pretending to
know everything; but these office Moltkes
must feel uneasy in their consciences about
six hours a day.
* * * *
“Pick”: At Braidwood (N.S.W.) the
other week there passed out at the age of
82, John Musgrave, who had something of
a record on the Inky Way. Far back in
the ’so’s he set up the Braidwood
Despatch, when the palmy goldfield days
gave to that town less of a decayed appear-
ance than it wears nowadays, and through
varying fortunes he stood at its editorial
wheel until the old pirate with the scythe
cut him down. An early training on some
of the Sydney dailies was, perhaps, respon-
sible for the musty traditions of Toryism
that usually pervaded his office.
* * * *
“Albion” : Some of Australia’s struggling
country newspaper proprietors take firewood,
horsefeed, goats, groceries, etc., in payment
for ads. or papers. Once I happened to be
piloting a sheet in Western Queensland, and
received a note from one of our esteemed sup-
porters, who informed me that he had “ten
bob” coming to him at the Shire office for
some dingo scalps, and authorising me to
collect the amount for his annual subscrip-
tion. I reckon that’s the limit.
* * * *
“8.J.H.0.” : Buying and selling of news-
papers has been proceeding briskly in the
Cold Country. Millionaire Astor (William
Waldorf of that ilk) has lately sold both the
Pall Mall Gazette and the Observer to
Gardiner Sinclair, the Edinburgh printing
magnate. Under the editorship of the ener-
getic J. L. Garvin, the P.M.G., which has
always skited that it is run by gents, for
gents., is the most powerful Tory evening
sheet in London. The Observer, the oldest
Sawbath journal in England, was bought by
Astor from Northcliffe only about three
years ago. The ex-American (Wm. Waldorf
is a naturalised Britisher these times) has
disposed of the Pall Mall Magazine,
which has been swallowed by Nash’s. Also
that somewhat sad weekly, the World,
which Will Dyson did his best to brighten
with colored cartoons, has been transferred
to the shoulders of Fenton, of the Pink ’TJn,
who should at least make a more sprightly
Atlas than his predecessor.
LARGER TYPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I the old familiar columns view,
In which the mummer critics weekly revel,
I gasp! Upon my sock and buskin it is true—-
Not an invention of the printer's devil!
A wondrous change I note—the time was ripe—
“ Poverty Point” appears in larger type!
The microscopic text no more I'll scan
That chronicles my every little habit —
My movements e'en from Beersheba to Dan,
And when I take a car, and when I cab it,
And how some plays were “great” and others
, “tripe”—■
“Poverty Point” appears in larger type!
Small print no more will make my optics smart.
What though pert paragraphists scorn and rend me,
More space devoted to me and my Art
Should —looked on as the usual ad. —befriend me!
So no regretful tear away l wipe—
You can’t insult a mummer with large type!
VICTORIA.
JEUNE PREMIER.


Fhe Recognised Leading House for all
SMOKERS & SHAVERS’ REQUISITES
PIPES
å
I!
i
G
H
G
R
A
D
E
S.N.L. Pipes, made from finest quality old
briar root, with superior hand-cut Para vul-
canite mouthpieces. Heavy Silver mounts.
A'l shapes 3/- each (post free)
ā
“Goudron,” finest quality
Natural Block
Meerschaum Pipes.
THE
SWEETEST
AND
COOLEST
SMOKING
PIPES EVER PRODUCED.
Para Vulcanite Mouthpieces, in case,
8/0, 10/0, 12/6, 14/G, 10/0, 21/-
each (post free).
Natural Pressed Amber Mouthpieces,
in case,
12/6, 14/0, 10/6, 18/0, 25/- each
(post free).
CIGARS
QUALITE
DE LUXE.
“Golden Key”
Cigars, of exquisite
aroma and infinite
charm.
The Standard
of Luxury
in Smoking.
'i '•
Put up iti cedar cabinets containing—
-25 cigars, 11 /6; 50 cigars, 22/C
(post free).
Sample boxes of 5 cigars, 2/6 (post
free).
CIGARETTES.
De'.ightful, Fascinating'
“Three Witches”
Cigarettes, made from
selected, sun-ripe
Virginian Tobacco.
Finest quality.
5/- per 100 (post
free;.
Three Witches
a-
JIMORRiS
8. sons L t
TOBACCOS.
‘Sunol,” highest grade Virginian, awarded 4
gold medals. Dark or Light. In plug OV
cut, G/- per lb. (post free).
‘Lon US” Smoking Mixture, choicest tobaccos,
skilfully blended. Put up in 2oz. tins.
8/G per lb. (post free).
Tobacco Pouches.
H
A
N
D
Y
«0
••
m
m
m
e>*
c
0
m
p
A
G
T
Wallet Pouch, Split Calf 2/9 each
„ ~ Real Morocco . . 3/6 «
~, Calf Crocodile .. 4/6 »
>, „ Gazelle 5/- »
,■ „ Velvet Calf .... 6/6 »
ă
POCKET LIGHTERS.
The “Sunol” Pocket
Lighter. Every smoker
should have one. Simple
in construction. Nothing
to get out of order.
2/- each (post free).
CIGAR and CIGARETTE
HOLDERS.
Amber Cigar Holders, silver rim,
in case, 6/6, 7/6 each.
Amber Cigar Holders, gold rim,
in case, 10/6, 11/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, silver
rim, in ease 4/- 4/6 each.
Amber Cigarette Holders, gold rim, in
case 7/6, 8/6 each.
SHAVING «SETS.
N
O
T
H
I
N
G
£
rfll
B
E
T
T
E
R
Shaving bets, comprising 1 renowned C. 8.8.
Razor, 1 C. 8.8. Razor Strop, 1 Badger Hair
Shaving Brush, and stick Williams's Soap—■
18/6 (post free).
RAZORS
R
A
R
E
ą
Q
u
A
L
I
T
Y
The '“Hitite” Razor, pronounced by experts
to be absolutely perfect. None to
equal it. Kept in good order for 2 years,
free of charge—
Vulcanite Handle 7/C each (post free).
Ivory Handle •• •• 10/6 each (post free).
SAFETY RAZORS.
The Celebrated “Auto Strop” Safety
Razor, complete with 12 blades and strop,
in leather case 22/6 (post free).
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney
Branches s CITY, SUBURBS and NEWCASTLE.
Have You Ever Calculated
how much money you lose every year because your addition
and calculations are still made by the slow mental method?
Avoid errors and worry, and save time by employing
in your office the
Adds
Multiplies
Comptometer
Divides
Subtracts
Pounds, Shillings, Pence and Farthings.
Errors are often costly, and mistakes
made in casting up long columns of figures
iii the old way are always probable. With
the use of the Comptometer errors cannot
creep into your work.
The illustration shows the Compto-
meter in use. It is operated by
Keys like a typewriter, but is
much simpler and easier to
learn, as it has only 11 differ-
ent keys.
Write for Free Booh, “Rapid
Mechanical Calculationand
other particulars.
mm
FELT & TARRANT MFQ. CO.,
London, Berlin, Paris, St. Petersburg, Vienna, Buenos Aires, New York, etc.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—PEACOCK BROS., 214-216 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
u
'sm
FAIR BAN KS-MO RSE
MARINE ENGINES
For Pleasure and Work Boats
Start easily, run smoothly, develop full rated
power. Simple, compact. All parts inter-
changeable. Remarkable for their reliability
and economy. High-speed Engines, 314
to 24 H.P. Slow-speed Engines, 714
to 15 H.P.
Ask for Catalog.
CV 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Stationary Engines
Operate cm Kerosene, Petrol (Gasoline) or
Distillate. Stationary and Portable sizes.
2 to 200 H.P.
Ask for Catalog AL 1939.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE Eclipse Engines
Small, sturdy Engines, especially suited for
pumping or running light machinery. Simple,
compact. Two sizes. Will operate anv
windmill pump. Ask for Catalog 1939 VR.
Fairbanks, Morse & Co.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
AGENTS—
Type ‘K”
7h h.p.
Rn
C. H. Relph,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Webster & Co. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Malloch Bros.
Perth, W.A.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT
S. GREEN, 210 Lambeth Road, London, Eng,
Insist on “ Sineleton s’ —refuse all substitutes.
CARBIDE
Ask for
PERNIX,
i and see that
you get it, with
the trade mark
“PERNIX” on every Cask and Drun
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES : 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mp.rr.ir
England, 6d. How to Gk.t Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
TiNK’s Silent Frip.nd, Is 6d. Nkd Donnelly's- Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to YVrkstlk, Is. Moll
Flandkiis, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horsk, Is. Ventriloquism Madk Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datf. Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. tiik
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
1 s 3d. Theory of Value, Is 6d. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science.,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d.
m.
mm
wsm \>
1
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN" HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FItEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and snows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in piain language, a tnou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
W BOOKSELLER to the commonwealth. —*3
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator. Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made last, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. is * post
is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ‘ 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide.,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FIIOM THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for iny....
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dit. Milford’s Mid-
wipe’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court op England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wipe, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posied.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wipe’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits op Philosophy. Is post. lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets op Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Rexona —the Best
Remedy for Piles.
gm
x '»4
MRS. LEMP \
(from a photo.).
“For some time in-
ternal bleeding piles
caused me much suf-
fering,” writes Mrs.
W. Lemp, 164 Yarrow
Street, Invercargill,
N.Z. “The irritation
was unbearable. I
could not lie, walk or
sit on account of the
pain and uncomfort-
able feeling. I tried
many remedies, all
with no success.
Nothing did me any
good. Rexona Oint-
ment was recom-
mended to me, and the
first two or three ap-
plications of this
splendid balm acted
like magic. After
using Rexona Ointment
for only a short time,
I was freed from my
terrible affliction and
completely cured. It
is well called “The
Rapid Healer.”
Rexona —the Family Friend.
Women who suffer from Piles are especially unfortunate, in that they cannot
talk about their complaint. They must suffer in silence. To all such Rexona comes
as a great blessing, for it is easily obtained, easily applied, and the result is always
gratifying. The distressing symptoms quickly subside, and mind and body both feel
relief from the constant strain almost after the first application. In this Ointment
are combined juices and essences in an entirely new and unique manner, forming a
remedy justly celebrated as a Rapid Healer. Rexona is a remedy which is especially
valuable in the treatment of Piles. Those who try it will not be disappointed.
Rexona is sold everywhere at 1/6, or in pots holding four times the quantity, for 3/-
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
SHEAR WITH THE FAMOUS
FALKINEB ELEC ™ C EQUIPMENT
Invented by a practical Australian Pastoralist, it will be found the
FALKINER ELECTRIC SHEEP SHEARING Machine combines
many striking advantages, of which the following are a few:—
A
A
<B
(1) It Is easy to erect.
(2) Entire absence of _trouble*
some line shafting.
(3) independent motor for each
man.
(4) Electric power available for
shed lighting.
(5) The patent universal joint
enables the shearer to
work with ease and com-
fort.
(6) Any hand piece may be
used.
(7) Silent running and practi-
cally no vibration.
(8) No special type of shed
necessary—the Falklner
Electric Machine will fit
any shed, old or new.
(9) Electricity is the safest.
cheapest and cleanest
power I
This machine, which has been patented all over
the world, stands unique in design, simple in con-
struction, and unequa'led in small consumption of
power. Sheep are shorn at the minimum of cost
and the maximum of efficiency.
Write for full details, also for our illustrated leaflet
dealing with the Electric Lighting of Shearing Sheds.
FALK INER
ELECTRIC COY.
103-5 William St., Melbourne, and Somerset House, 5 Moore St., Sydney
r —it*
TO-DAY particular thought should be given to
one’s shoes. Definite purpose and not caprice
should rule their choice, since Fashion recog-
nises their dress value and insists that they shall
harmonise’with the rest of one’s attire. Thus, by
following the lead of Fashion, a very distinctive
and pleasing note can be attained. Bostocks
are designed for wear with the newest toilettes;
they are exclusive in style and the cream of
imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
804
10/
?{*/■
.0-
*y
Whs?*,'
Style 590
The Corpse that Won’t Lie Still.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A YE, call it murder if ye will!
’Tis not the crime I fear.
If his cold corse would but lie still
And silent in its bier,
Then would I be indeed content,
And count it folly to repent.
With these two hands I’ve slain the knave;
I’ve watched the red blood drop ;
I’ve rammed him tight into his grave,
And piled the clods atop,
And tramped them down exultingly....
Now back he comes to grin at me.
Once have I slain him in his bed,
Twice by the midnight blaze;
Thrice have I looked upon him dead
All in these seven days.
Yet here, this night, I’ve seen him stand
And pluck the pen from out my hand.
Nay, never spook nor sprite is he,
But solid flesh and blood,
Who schemes with deep malignity
To stint my livelihood.
And he has vowed a vow my name
Shall never grace the scroll of fame.
My name he bears, my garb he wears,
My pipes he idly smokes ;
And, friend-like, he but rarely cares
To praise my sorry jokes.
He spends my money lavishly
With ne’er a thrifty thought for me.
And when my ready'cash is gone
He runs me into debt.
Stern duty he will harp upon
When I would fain forget.
But when, through toil, I would be free
He soothes me with rank sophistry.
Whene’er with resolutions stern
I sit me down to work.
And mighty thoughts within me burn,
Then forth comes he to lurk
Here at my elbow, where he clings
And whispers of forbidden things.
So when I woo some lofty theme
Of deep religious tone,
He lures me on to idly dream,
As we sit there alone,
Of girls I have and have not kissed,
Of favors won and chances missed.
He whispers of that tempting book
I have no time to read ;
“One peep,” he pleads ; “one hasty look!
Where is the harm, indeed?”
And when I speak of work, and sigh,
“’Twill do to-morrow!” is his cry.
And oft —too well I know how oft—
Beneath his subtle spell
I fall, and dream of living soft
Who know —aye, none so well —
That living soft is but for him
Who earns his ease with labor grim.
Dreams, dreams, and ever idle dreams!
His glozing art I hate ! _
Yet pleasant for the hour it seems,
His soothing opiate.
And, though I slay .him, this I dread :
He’s oftener alive than dead.
Oh, I had been so very sure,
No later than last night,
That I had pinned the knave secure,
And I was free to write
Those mighty masterpieces which
To pen my fingers ever itch.
But, with his slouch and lazy leer,
Lo, back came he to-day :
With wheedling lips against mine ear
He tempted me to play
At tennis all the afternoon.
Work and resolve forgot so soon !
Yet, spite his faults, he is, I swear,
A merry knave withal;
And when I have the time to spare—
That’s seldom, if at all —
I’d roam with him ’mid fields and flow’rs
If he’d be still in business hours.
Each morn I bash him on the head
And hide him out of sight.
Full sure, indeed, that he is dead ;
But back he comes each night,
And on the lotus buds we feed
When bread and butter is my need.
Though many ways his death I’ve planned
And slain him. as I’ve said.
He takes a lot of killing and
He’ll never stay long dead.
And. though each day I cause his death,
I know he’ll live while I have breath.
But let me vow the vow again—
The vow I know by heart —
And. here and now, with hasty pen.
Stab to some vital part.
And. mocked by his departing laugh,
Rewrite his oft-writ epitaph.
“Here lies the man I should not be
By all stern rules of life.
The man who’s plagued and hampered me
All through this mundane strife.
A lazy, loaflne knave was he. . . .
But, sooth, he was fine company.”
VICTORIA.
DEN.
How to End the War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"TVT VPOLEON TOSSPOT sat at the
I small round table at the end of the
bar. Before him was a half-dis-
charged “schooner,” and Napoleon gazed at
it thoughtfully over the bowl of his briar.
I sat down beside him and commenced to
sip my bovril, and between sips remarked :
“How’s the war going?”
“War —there is no war yet!” he snorted.
“Mere affairs of outposts. The Germans
are doing rottenly. Three weeks on the job
and only open towns captured. Not a soli-
tary fortress taken. Hardly a German
soldier across the French frontier. And
Heaven knows how many Roosians *warin-
ing over the eastern frontier.
“I’ve been thinking about this war. The
problem the German has to solve is the
tucker supply. Now, always go for the
enemy’s bread-basket if you can. What
Britain should do now is engage three million
Chows. Arm ’em with waddies or any old
thing and land ’em by the hundred thousand
on any part of the German coast, where
they would, of course, surrender without
firing a shot.”
“What good would that do?” I inquired
wonderingly. “It would give the Kaiser
more food for his victorious journalism.”
“You’re no military genius,” said Napo-
leon Tosspot scornfully. “Can’t you see
that the Germans would have to feed ’em.
Also, they’d have to detach a lot of troops
to watch ’em. But it’s the tucker that
counts. Three million more to feed would
be the very devil. Then send along a fourth
million, and if necessary a fifth and sixth.”
“I’m afraid these brutal Germans would
shoot the lot!” I said, shaking my head
sadly. . .
“Well, it would make a hole in their
ammunition, for you bet some of those
Chinks would put up a good sprint. And
the burning or burying of millions of Pongs
would make the Germans beastly tired —•
break ’em up, in fact. I’m going to write to
Millen about it, anyway !”
“It might appeal to him, after all. Have
another ‘schooner’?”
“One more won’t hurt. Of course, there’s
another way it might be done. This war is
going to cost the Allies about five millions
per day. Well, offer the war expenses of
a week, £35,000,000, as a reward for the
heads of the entire German General Staff,
from the Kaiser downwards. They’d be
delivered in a week. That is, all that the
troops could catch. There’d be such a
stampede of officers to the French and Bel-
gian armies for protection that the unani-
mous movement might be mistaken for a
general advance. But the speed of the
stampede would make the Allies wise.”
“It’s a horrible idea—but it might work.
Are you going to put it to Millen, too?”
“My oath. He’ll get a peerage if he adopts
it and they take it on. Nothing surer! The
war will end the week the German army
gets the news.”
“That ought to make him jump at the
idea!” I said thoughtfully. “But it seems
to me that the difficulty would be to get
the news circulated in the German regi-
ments.”# , -
“The French and British have nearly 30U
aeroplanes. Bet ’em all loose distributing
the circulars right along the frontier. See
that they were dropped in every quarter
where the Social Purity Society has a
branch, and the old tabbies will do the
rest.”
Napoleon looked into his “schooner,”
which was empty. He seemed surprised.
Having obtained a fresh cargo for that ves-
sel he went on :
“There’s a bloke down in Woolloomooloo
who has invented a new and wonnerful
motive power for aeroplanes: You see,
there is no limit to aerial flight as long
as the engine can be kept going. Of course
you know that heat is a manifestation _ of
solar energy, and light is a manifestation
of heat. Do you get me? Well, his appli-
ance abstracts from the daylight sufficient
power to drive the aeroplane. It is not
quite perfect, but he hopes to improve it
so that with an auxiliary appliance lie can
collect a reserve stock which will drive the
aeroplane at night as well. At present the
machine must come down about three hours
after sunset. It works with the moonlight,
but it cannot accumulate enough to be
effective. He is pretty certain to perfect it
in the course of a week or so. And when
he does the British Government will be able
to fit out a squadron of huge aeroplanes,
each capable of carrying 50 or 60 men.
These sky-vachts can keep up as long as
the tucker lasts. Their business will be to
seek out the Kaiser and his staff, and kill
’em. After that all the general officers com-
manding. And as fresh ones are appointed
they must be promptly killed off. It’s the
old idea of the Assassins brought up to
d&tG ”
“Are you going to send it to Millen, too?”
“Nope! I’m going to send that to Kit-
chener direct. Millen’s going to. have his
chance with two good ideas, and if he can’t
cotton to one of them I’ve no more time for
him.”
“You’ll give him a very fair opportunity.
I think !” I said admiringly.
“I think so!” he replied thoughtfully.
He blew the froth from the bulwarks of
the “schooner” and looked at me .with gleam-
ing eyes, wiped his mouth, relit his pipe,
and went on :
“There’s another idea which I rather
shrink from. The enemy is so utterly help-
less against it that I hate to think of it.
But if the Allies should be in real danger I
shall have to throw compunction to the
winds. You know these people that are
called “disease carriers”- —individuals who,
while immune themselves, carry germs to
others? Yes, of course. Well, in some
parts of China there are coves who
can manufacture these “carriers,” and they
do it. for a price. And when you want to
get rid of an enemy you hire someone, gener-
ally a nice young girl, make her a carrier,
load her up with the particular disease you
want to hit your friend with, and then
entice one of his housemaids to leave. Have
the carrier on hand so that she will be
engaged for the vacant position—and the
germ does the rest.”
“What particular germ did you propose to
use —cholera ?”
“Cholera be Mowed. Too easily cured
with common cooking salt these days. .1
propose to send ’em out with a good, reli-
able disease —anthrax. No one knows how
to cure that. These carriers would be
located along the frontier as waitresses,
cooks, etc- Of course all neutrals would be
warned off. and all the people in any estab-
lishment to bo used for the purpose would
be carriers. What puts me off it is that,
although anyone can be made a carrier, a
carrier can never be unmade. He or she
goes on for ever.”
“Don’t do it —don’t do it!” I begged of
him.
“I won’t —unless the Empire is in danger.
If that happens T’ll see red. and Heaven
only knows what I’ll do. Don’t make me
think of it-—Mease don’t!” he expostulated,
ducting the froth from his waistcoat and
drifting out in a profound reverie.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


IF IT WERE BETTER KNOWN
that Backache, Dropsy, Rheumatism, Sediment, Dizziness and a Constant Sleepy
Feeling point to Kidney Disease, there wauld be fewer fatal cases than there are.
Thousands have kidney trouble and don’t
know it; because it comes on so quietly. To
all appearances the patient may be in good
health except for an occasional backache
and a heavy, drowsy feeling. But before
the disease is much farther advanced there
are sharp, shooting pains in the loins and
hack; the water is cloudy and gravelly; the
patient may have to keep getting up in the
night to relieve the bladder, or there may be
distress in seeking relief, and partial stop-
page ; then the limbs begin to swell with
water, (dropsy), the heart seems affected,
the hands and feet are chilly; there may be
rheumatism or lumbago.
The only hope of successful treatment is
to commence before ilie I’idneys become
seriously involved. A thorough course of
Doans Backache Kidney Pills should be
taken to relieve inflammation and conges-
tion of the kidneys, and to restore the natural
action of the kidneys and bladder. This
medicine acts quickly and directly upon the
kidneys, promoting a free flow, by which the
poisonous impurities are flushed out of the
system.
■
91S
■
*
I
•' Every
picture
tells a
story “
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, (® 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores, or post free by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TWO LASTING SYDNEY
CURES.
LIDCOMBE.
Mr. Robert Larcombe, Monumental Mason.
Lidcombe, says : “Off and on for years I suffered
agony from backache and kidney trouble. I would
go to bed feeling fairly well, but on rising in the
morning my back would ache terribly. The pains
were sharp and shooting, and often so bad that I
used to scream out. 1 always had great difficulty
in stooping, and it was agony for me to straighten
up again if I had been in one position for any
length of time. The kidney secretions were also
much affected. I was advised to try Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and I sent for some at once.
After using the first couple of bottles I felt better,
and five bottles completely cured me. I can recom-
mend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to all sufferers
from kidney trouble, and feel sure they will benefit
by taking them.”
Two years later Mr. Larcombe says: “It is over
two years since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of kidney trouble, and I have had no
return of the complaint all that time.”
ST. PETER’S.
Mrs. E. Wilkinson, 29 Campbell Street, St.
Peter’s, Sydney, says: “For some time I suffered
agony from lumbago-like pains across the small of
my back. These pains prevented me from bending
or getting proper rest at night, and seriously ham-
pered me when attending to my household duties.
Sometimes I was so bad I could hardly move, and
if I tried to get about the house the pain was
almost unbearable. After trying all sorts of
remedies without success, Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were brought under my notice, so I got some,
and they did me good almost at once. After taking
two bottles of these pills I was ever so much better,
and eight bottles completely cured me. That was
12 months ago, and I have been well ever since.
I always keep a bottle of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills in the house, and take a dose occasionally,
and they keep me in splendid health.”
Two years later Mrs. Wilkinson says: “I have
been free from backache since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me three years ago.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
The Internationals at the
Cafe Eff.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Melbourne, excellently well situated
between a lugubrious blue church and
a tombstone yard full of granite
angels, is all that piece or parcel of land
containing 2 roods 3 perches, and bearing
the gloomy double front, the long, rambling
dining-room and the asphalt yard of the
Cafe Elf. The scenery in the yard is of
asphalt and bricks, with a gate R.U.E. and
a large, old weepful willow tree left centre,
and a hit up stage. This willow tree has an
intermission of ten minutes in its trunk,
and the frugal Italian holders have wiped
out the invading pest by filling the rift with
cement as they keep those 500-year-old
olive trees alive with cement and bands of
iron on the road to Monte Amiata, first
turning after Archidosso, between the ceme-
tery and Santa Fiora walls.
There is a pianola there and a piano, a
mandolin with a black moustached Spanish
attachment, and a very plump, very black-
eyed. ever-laughing woman who uses the
mandolin’s “tink-a-tank” as accompaniment.
Minnie and Winnie, eight Italians, four
Australians, a Servian, a librarian and an
oil merchant made up the party the other
night. The librarian was interested in war
literature. One of the Australians —by name
Oscar was benevolently drunk, so that he
ordered wine for all men, friends, strangers
i\ u< l u 5 -1 £ inis , carefully ignoring the fact
that his funds were limited to one and four-
pence and a rupee.
lie was a hard-faced man with a per-
petual and good-humored grin which did not
leave Ins face even when lie passed deadly
insults to tlie fish-oil merchant who, in the
East End of London, had been a great flag-
flapping patriot, and had killed Kruger sev-
eral times by tearing the English language
to pieces with liis loose mouth. This patent
sneak, slant-eyed as a Pong, found his mar-
vellous dignity stricken to death early in the
meal. In a new accession of patriotism he
had requested the company to sing the Mar-
seillaise, and in the event Oscar had ruled
him out of order for that he had sung the
immortal music of liouget de Lisle with the
well-known English translation of the words
which are:-
Rn ! Ra ! R a ! Ra ! Ra ! Ra ! Ra ! Ra !
Ka! Ra! Ra!
Ra ! Ra! R a !
Linguistic ignorance being thus attacked,
the fish-oil merchant departed, sorely
wounded in the vanity.
Squibkins, the Village Fatsmitli, leaves
us, said Oscar. “Now we will let her go!
Give s another bottle of wine—two bottles
of wine. Angelico.”
“Si,. Signore.”
four bottles er wine !”
Si, Signore.”
“Righto! Pass the formaggio gratata,
Billski.”
“My name,” said the Servian, as he
passed the grated cheese, “is nodt Beelski.”
“Tomski, then! Give me a bit of that
salame, Tomski.”
“My name ees nodt Tomski —but I will
the sossich pass.”
“Well, Maryanski, then. Thanks. Put a
bottle over by Maryanski, my little angel.
Luck, Maryanski.”
“The fortificazione off Firenze,” said one
of the Italians, with his hands on the table
and his vertically-held knife and fork making
a fascine to guard liis meat, “is of much
aitch. lie is builded by Mickel Angiolo—he
is so wide, so largs, so much high above the
gardens extra mura. It is so —it shall be.
If the Tedeschi shall come to Firenze —eh!
belle piese, Firenze —lie will himself be tired
before he shall take the fortificazione.”
“Milano,” said another, “shall be the place
more beautiful. Oh, belle Milano! belle
citta!”
“Give’s two more bottles, my beautiful
little angel!”
“Si, Signore.”
“Make it four bottles !”
“Si, Signore.”
“Drink up, lads! Now Minnie, sing about
Spring unclosing, and I'll unclose another
bottle. Pipe her up, Minnie—let her go!
Sing Seconds, Winnie ! What did God give
you that beautiful voice for?”
The plump woman sang it softly with her
eyes fixed immovably on the cruet, as if the
words were printed there. When she fin-
ished Angelico returned from the little cellar
with the wine, and Vincenzo, the old, white-
moustached. blue-eyed, cheerful Piedmontese
began to talk about fighting with Garibaldi,
his eyes brightening and then glazing as the
wine got in its work on him.
“All! the fighting! With Garibaldi in
Calabria—-the fighting! Never have I been
so dangerous and so pericoloso of my life,
than it is in the fighting.”
IBs friend interrupted him. “I have seen
you so more pericoloso in Daylesford. when
you are half a tight an’ turn the tap of the
wine casks in the cellar so that you wife
find you up to you ankle in the spilled hock
wine. That time your life is pericoloso,
certamente.”
“Ja ! It is nothing. It is in Calabria with
the Garibaldi —shoot! shoot! shoot! sempre
the shoot —kill stranger—forestieri—you
have not been introduce, you know him not,
yet you kill him ! Ecco ! So is.”
“Is it not that the Tedeschi shall lose
their warship in the Nord Sea? Is it not?
Say no? Perelie shall the Banco di Inghil-
terra charge so litt-el—so littel. littel, littcl
for the monna of exchange?”
“I’d pay anything for money.” said Oscar,
“anything. I’d even give Minnie away to a
pirate if I could get a tenner by doing it.
Fill ’em up, boys ! Drink with me ! Angel-
ico?”
“Si, Signore,” with a suggestion of eager-
ness.
“Three more bottles of wine, Angelico.”
“Si. Signore,” said without any enthu-
siasm.
“But if the German shall lose the war-
ship in the Mare du Nord why shall the
Bourses of Londra and of Parigi lie not
unclose? Why shall they make for the
ower of debt a moratorium?”
“For the saf-ety of poor pipple,” replied
Vincenzo. “So that poor pipple shall not
lose all the dam mortgagee.”
“Good enough, too,” said Oscar, his eyes
glazing as his ears listened to the music of
the wine, saying “gurgle, gurgle! pop!” from
the bottle-neck to the glass, “Pro—pro—oh,
damn it! Pro-teck the poor with the mora-
hora-torium.”
“I hope the war shall not come to Milano!
or Venezia—oh! so beautiful! so belle piese
Milano—mos beauteefull city in the world.”
“No ! No ! Firenze !”
“Roma.”
“Paris.”
“Torino.”
“Footscray,” gurgled Oscar. “Nurra
borellerwine., Angelico mio.”
“5i.... Signore.”
“Milan—mos’ beauteefull.”
“No, Paris—or Vienna,”
“No—Roma.”
“No, no. Firenze.”
“Excuse,” said the Servian, depositing two
chop bones in the librarian’s plate. “Excuse !
Not Parees, not W ien, not Milano, not Rom,
not Foreen, not Flor-ence, not the Footer-
scray. There is but one beautiful city of
the world-—it is my city—the so beautiful
su-pairb city of Belgrard.”
“Belgrade!” echoed Oscar, drunkenly and
with differentiations. “That’s where they
kill all the dam kings an’ queens—that’s a
city of ass-ass-ass-ass—oh, damn it—-ass-assi-
nators !”
“By Gott!” said the Servian. “You shall
not say my beauteeful Belgrard is city of
asasseen. Servia, my countree, keep armee
—pay armee—give armee the foods. Why
shall they pay armee, feed armee, give armee
the clothes of soldiers but that is that the
armee shall kill pipple? So?”
_
'l>ut if it ees that there shall not be pipple
lo be killed, it is that the armee shall do no
work. Earn not the waitches. So the armee
is loafere. So. It is arrainch-eii that the
armee shall get the worrk; kill the King
rni. lsa '° ? lu the Queen Dragh. So! Good!
I he King he is not king, but toy—the Queen
she is not queen, but servante that Alisandre
shall give the proniotement. She is but
donna della monde? and he is toy found
orlon by police in liouso of o,ss&ssinoitioii —
the house of ill-famine. So the armee is
told to kill Dragh and Alisandre. ,
‘But, gurgled Oscar. “Why, did you
asinate the King?”
M tell you just this time—he is toy—
i a uwr aS nol: ,( lie work — so we say to armee,
lu <lr> ls ' an <lre.”
But look here, damn it, old toucher ! Why
did you—why did you as—why did you
asinate the Ivi-queen? Asserme—answer
mP <<r!- 1 t
Did I not tell. That Dragh is not queen
but servante prorhoteto be donna della
monde? So the armee kill Alisandre—then kill
Dragh. It is not murder—it is execution.
The king belong to the pipple, the armee to
the pipple—bofe is the property of the
pipple—an’ the pipple order one property
to execute the other.”
“But. look here! That’s all very'fine and
large. See! But why did you asinate—the
—-the Why did you asinate the—the
quink?”
“We are exycutors —not asasseen—we kill
—it is our right."
“Yes, you kill,” said Vincenzo. “It is not
busyness of us, but most beauteeful citta
of the world is Milano! Ah! the catte-
drale, the Galleria Umberto, the Poldo Pez-
zoli, the Salon of the Caryatides ! Ah ! bel-
lezza.”
“Belgrard,” said the Servian stubbornly, as
he folded his napkin, “is the most beauteeful
of the world. Ah! if but I could make the
return—see my beauteeful Belgrard and my
mother before she die. But 1 cannot—no !
my friends ! No !”
“But for why?”
“In Belgrard I am redacteur.”
“Wass that?”
"Editeur—of five newspapere—two news-
papers Socialeest, two Anarcheest, one Ile-
publieaine. If I should back return to Bel-
grard I will get seex year in the prison—
one year for each newspapere—one year
for myself.”
He rose and left the table; the others
followed him. Oscar of the glazed eye dozed
among his many bottles.
“How much?” said Oscar, fingering one
and fourpence and a rupee,
Angelico made up Falstaff’s bill of costs
on the back of an envelope and gravely
announced the total as one pound one
shilling,
“Whassat?”
“Twelve bottel wine, eighteen shilling ;
four Vermont; one shilling ; two fernet branca
—litt-el glass, afeter dinnaire—-sixpens; din-
naire, one shilling and six pens. Total, one
pound one shilling.”
“I say, I on’y got t-hat, ole chap.”
“What? One shill in e four pens an’ one
rupee—no good here. You are lofaire. What
you mean? By Cristoforo Colombo, now 1
shall send the poleece.”
Oscar breathed heavily upon him and
uttered a terrible threat,
“If you instil’ me” he said Vvry grandly,
“i’ll just stay here in y’r dam nlace an’ wait
till those larrikins come over, and then I'll
sing the ‘Watch on the Rhine.’”
“Here! For the Love of God, mistaire
—you go away. Never mind tin l ft"net;
never mind the vermouth: never mind the
twelve bott-el; give me the shilling, four-
ponce for (linn<vi^o. ,,
T won’t, there i I’ll give you the dashed
rupee. Take it—now—or I’ll sing ‘Die
Wacht am Rhein’ right now!”
“For God’s sake give, then—an’ go.”
“There’s the rupee. For the drinks I've
declared a mora-hora-torium. The larrikins
are all coming over here. Go in and sing the
‘Marseillaise.’ ”
He lurched down the street as the Patriots
came to destroy the kindliness of men.
Angelico, muttering “Per Baccho ! I wish he
is caught for German spy.” put the “Mar-
seillaise” record into the pianola:-—-
R: ; Ra : Ra : Ra : Ra ' Ra- Ra- Ra '
Ra Ra Ra Ra '
Ka ' Ka ' Ka '
sang (lie Patriots in Footscray French; or
that which is worse, the English of South
Yarra.
RANDOLPH BEDPORD.


IF THE TRANSMISSION MEDIUM BE
A WESTINGHOUSE (MORSE)
SILENT CHAIN
5C
m
m
%
Whether to line shaft, counter-
shaft or machine tool, there is
always the assurance that
Practically all the
Energy Developed by
the Motor is Utilised,
as the power wastage due to
the friction of sliding surfaces
is eliminated by
The Rocker-Joint
which embodies the principle
of the ball or roller-bearing.
Write for Booklet B.M. 310 to
Brake Co. of Australasia
id Agents: Holmes & Church, Brisbane,
lew Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike. We
Concord West, N. $
WOOP-WORKINC MACHINES
Manufactured by
.
BOUNDERS,
STOCKHOLM,
f \ ,
have characteristics not found in other makes. They* are particularly mas-
sive in construction — ever;, part is easily accessible, and they are fitted with
Ball Bearings throughout.
Catalogue and list of Australian users on application.
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
•yOU begin to
x look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
a: ways so con-
spicuous. A
of the
wcrld-famed
Lockyer’s
L. ft
\
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD,
YK7KITING to the agent
vv entrusted with the
purchasing of the
stores for the forthcoming
Imperial Trans-Antarctic
Expedition Sir Ernest
Shackleton uses these
words: —
“The question
of the concen-
trated beef sup-
ply is most im-
portant—
it must be
Bovril.”
Menwhotrust
their lives to
their food take
no risks, and Sir
Ernest Shackle-
ton, planning
this expedition
with as intimate
a knowledge of
stores as of ice
and snow, has
recognised the
scientifically
proved value of
Bovril.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured, Thousands of Cages, some after
suffering’ over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- ner box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under •
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
Do You Meed Money?
If so, write us and we will tell you how
you can make from
£5 to £lO per Week
We are manufacturers of the famous
“Davis” perfumes, soaps and toilet arti-
S9H
.V.
cles, and we
need repre-
sentatives in
every com-
munity.
W e illus-
trate one of
our many
combination
boxes —very
popular sell-
ers. You
can make big
m o n e y by
selling these
boxes.
If you want
to establish a
your own without investing much money,
where you can earn a good living and
besides accumulate a substantial bank account,
write us today and we will tell you how.
E. M. DAVIS SOAP COMPANY
Dept. Efl-10, 222 N. Desplaines St., Chicago, U. S. A.
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
6d.
IT IS TIME
which is the test of all things—including proprietary medicines. The enormous
and ever-increasing popularity of Beecham’s Pills which, after a service of
seventy years, still hold their own against all rivals, is the most genuine proof of
the sterling worth of this excellent preparation. It must of necessity be a really
good thing to withstand the tremendous pressure of modern competition and
maintain a superiority so distinct and indisputable. With the flight of years
Beecham’s Pills have become known far and wide as the best medicine
TO TAKE
for those numerous ailments arising from a disturbed digestive system. For
biliousness, constipation, dizziness, flatulence, heartburn, headache, loss of
appetite and sluggish action of liver and kidneys, there is nothing to beat
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere In boxes, price I{l\ (5 6 pills) & 219 (f 68 pills).
á
Grow a Moustache.
Even if your previous efforts have failed —you need not despair.
CAPILLARINE
will enable you to develop a splendid hair-growth that will enhance your
appearance. Not a quack remedy—3o years on the market has proved
its merit. Does not -injure the skin or cause soreness, and its use cannot
be detected.
GET A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post .Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654- Georgfe Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
ESTABLISHED 1874.
ǻ
FOR
COUGHS .
fMridqes
UjkgMc
FOR
COLDS.
Public Speakers Singers, and all who
suffer from Throat Weakness find
it safe and effective.
SOLD BY RETAIL CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
STOCKED BY ALL WHOLESALE
DRUG HOUSES in AUSTRALIA.
Prepared by W. T. OWBRIDGE, LTD.
HULL, ENGLAND.
Health fol
regular use of
Montserrat
I Lime Juice I
I Sauce I
k\\YV
&
<
\
VS
It makes
you enjoy
your food.
Of all Storekeepers-
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS rOR -
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
.
Manufacturers of Aerated ’Water’s arid Cordials.
æ
FIREARMS, like other things mechanical,
have undergone a continuous evolution.
First the muzzle-loading guns; then the single-
shot breech-loaders; then the repeating arms, of
which there are a number of makes and styles.
In repeating arms several important fea-
tures must be considered, such as rapidity
of firing without loss of aim, ejection of
empty cartridges, safety, beauty and
durability. It is because of these
essential requirements that we
ask you to examine a Rem-
ington. Read the short de-
scription herewith.
Ask your dealer to
show you a Reming-
ton repeating arm,
or send to us
for full infor-
mation.
Remington
repeating arms
are all constructed
on the following
principles:
Solid Breech enclosing
and preserving the firing
mechanism, also protecting
shooter’s . eyes; Hammerless —ab-
sence of protruding and unsightly
hammer; Slide Action permitting
rapid firing without removing rifle from
shoulder; Easily Detached Barrel —for carry-
ing or cleaning: Side Ejection empty cart-
ridges not thrown on shooter or across line of
vision; Safety Device for locking firing mechanism,
conveniently placed on trigger guard; Beauty and
Symmetry. Remington arms for sale by leading dealers.
Catalogues postpaid on request.
.. '.• ■ ■■ ■
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co., New Yorb and London
ǽ


PERTUSSIN
A remedy constantly
recommended by
Doctors for the last
twenty years against
WHOOPING GOUGH
GOUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery. f
Can be obtained at all Chemists.
1,1
THE MMliy BEVERAGE
c
D
a
JOL
-
□
□
Pl"'.' •
'if:
A; 7
Cl::/
w-' ;
rj
m
*Y
n»
m
w>
VmprT
II
m
M
m.
,S.
Hardie s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE, ROT, HEAT, ACID g ANT PROOF
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JUNES NARPIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
IT HAS
Medicinal
Virtues
The
Importance
of*
Efficient
Insulation!
The importance of efficient insulation, in many cases, is not realised. Great
care is shown in the selection of a steam plant to ensure the greatest eccuomy,
yet the insulation which is of equal importance is in many cases partly neg-
lected. If you strive to make a saving in the steam consumption of your
engine, why not make certain that it is not wasted again through faulty in-
sulation ? The claims we make as to the exceptional efficiency of Newall’s
Coverings are fully borne out by actual test, and, further, by the enormous
sales, including repeat orders, and we do not know of a single instance where
any other covering has been used once Newall’s have been tried.
The Ultimo and White Bay Power ‘Houses are insulated throughout with
Newall’s Coverings, and this material has also been adopted exclusively by the
N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. These are facts which will tend to fur-
ther prove our claims. The innumerable advantages of this material over all
other forms of lagging are described in interesting booklet, which we will be
pleased to mail you along with samples.
NCW ALL'S
MAGNESIA SECTIONAL
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
J. WILDRIDGE ij SINCLAIR LTD., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth, Wellington, N.Z.
MEPHAN FERGUSON PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
ENGINEERS, BOILER-MAKERS, IRONFOUNDERS, etc.
Manufacturers of Wrought Iron, Cast Iron and Steel Pipes, Bends, Valves, Pumps, Fluming,
Patent “Ne/yambo ” Scoops for Cleaning Out Tanks and Dams, Fluming, Castings, Forgings,
Bolts, Nuts, Screws, Spikes and Every Description of Cast or Wrought Iron Work .
Head Office and General Engineering Works: Gordon Street, Footscray, Victoria.
VC?
m
, m
m
■iks ‘.Mr
mm
i iT*' * WAto ' • ****♦■
The comparatively low price, capacity and finish of these
IMPROVED ENGLISH LATHES
■I I'———— t
commend them as very desirable tools tor general shop work,
on t he mine, and elsewhere.
Complete with Countershaft, Compound Rest, Hollow Spindle.
All cut gearing throughout. All sizes in stock.
to in. centres.
WRITE FOR FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES.
J,
mime
■■
.
KiV*
Engineers
Clarence Street,
n
ALL BRITISH MANUFACTURE.
“MIRIS " STEEL is Manufactured at Perseverance Works, SHEFFIELD.
SOriE ADVANTAGES OF “MIRIS” STEEL—
1— By reason of the ratio of its elastic limit and elongation to its ultimate breaking strain, “MIRIS” STEEL will satisfy specifications where Nickel
or Chrome Steels, involving a great increase in cost, have hitherto been used.
2 “MIRIS” STEEL can he annealed dead soft WITHOUT LOSS OF ULTIMATE HARDNESS.
3 “MIRIS” STEEL welds to itself in a smith’s fire as readily as iron to iron.
4 “MIRIS” STEEL is a pure carbon steel, and is invariably homogeneous and uniform in structure.
Suitable for Lathe Centres, Axles, Railway Work, Tools, etc., and can be supplied in Ingots, Billets, Slabs,
Rods, Bars, Plates, Strips or Wire of any Carbon from 0.10 to 1.10.
SOLE AGENTS*
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
