

JDXiWAB 7 S the Whisky of Sterling Value
B. Gr. «S& CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On a.ll Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
NS W- MONT DE
C
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at ielephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
HOH
Richardson’s
Wine S Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street,
SYDNEY.
158 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
rt>..
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
HAMS
BACOM
st
a 8.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
Junket
HANSENS
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
PALMER CORD TYRES
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
the silvertown RUBBER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
DRINK
Are You Pleased with
Your Home?
Do you envy someone else his panelled rooms and den? Wouldn’t the
panelling of one or two of your rooms with, say, Weathered Oak make
a great improvement? Let us send you samples of Amiwud, the new
material, that gives the effect of hardwood panelling at a fraction of
the cost. With Amiwud you can have all the richness of coloring and
beauty of grain shown in Golden Oak, Weathered Oak, Mahogany or
Jenisero. May we send those samples?
SSI
m
u
[
n
n
a
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO., Chains House, SYDNEY.
AGENCIES EVERYWHERE. D. S. EVANS, Australasian Representative.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
i anvil
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
S3i»xs m linn
ftHOICE r
BACoFTISii!^
Telegraphic Address—BACON, Murarrie, Queensland
VdS NOG 113 H
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA STARKEYS LTD., Agent*,
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption . pmiiip stSydney, and nodtorn
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1794.]
[Thursday, July 2, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS' FOR CRAFTSMEN
Mission Furniture, 3 vols., illus., sold separately,
2/6 ("2d.) per vol.
Tomlin’s 2000 Trade Secrets, 3/- (2d.).
Purton’s Poultry Culture, illus., 1/- (Id.).
Stoddard’s Steel Square Pocket Book, 2/6 (7d.).
Audel’s Helps, Hints and Recipes, 2/6 (2d.).
French Polisher’s Handbook, 1/3 (Id.).
Watson’s Business Motor Handbook, illus'., 1/9 (2d.).
{Postages shown in parentheses.)
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROPTY, LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Cigar and Cigarette
Smokers’ Attention.
SEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped—Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINGELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.L
LANCASTERS
High=class Guns & Rifles.
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
The Mouth is the Gateway
for the Entrance of Disease
Professor Miller has proved conclusively that
no fewer than 38 different infections may be
traced with more or less directness to the
human mouth, as a focal or starting: point.
The mouth being the gateway for the entrance
of disease, therefore it is here that the fight
must begin to keep the enemy out.
HUDSONS EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Ger-
micide and Antiseptic known, being destructive
to all forms of bacterial life. They keep the
mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
A. The Larynx or
organ of voice.
B. The Trachea or
windpipe.
p
o
Bronchial
libes of a dis-
sected lung.
A Lobe of one
of the lungs.
HUDSON’S BTTMUTVTHOU JUJUBES
Contain no Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
SUITED FOR OLD AND YOUNG.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza and the
PREVENTION OP CONSUMPTION.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers, Store-
keepers, in tins, price 1/6.
The Medical Press and Circular says.—
“These Jujubes should be of special service to
Lecturers, Public Singers and Speakers, and,
indeed, to all who are called upon to use their
voices frequently for prolonged periods.” [4
Australian
The Red Page
The amount of non-fictional pußlication in
“T®'
Sf reieot date T r of Plications
yjL icteul uate. i. h. Tucker puts forth his
views on claspipal philology and his account
TySe e il h ffli^ SP H tabW Sa P pho - JamST
xjiren Pictures the growth, or bloath of
CMe” he TO P ? M lh a
cate_ the JN.S.W/ teachers in Australian
PJ%tism. Riebard and W. J.
lets ’ tins r °m o Christianity in pampli-
evnluG™ similarly assaults
evolution. J. H. Maiden goes on giving
technical information about the eucalypt
5nH rg iL A - T, ayl °/ ex P° Ull ds town-planning.
And three alleged poets, all with some con-
nection with Australia, industriously write
rolled-gold poetry. y e
Jt
9- T 1 Uck T e ! - ’ Professor of Classical Philo-
in V ni X ersit y °f Melbourne is—a
professor of classical philology. He is not
perhaps, to be blamed for that; but when in
rlatforrn Monologues (Lothian, Melb., 3s.
bd.) he poses as a critic of literature the
fom dei in h f'' s rp , to complain when he
nds that T. G. lucker remains a professor
of classical philology. No literature is litera-
ture, according to him, unless it is safely
dead. For unless an author is quite a corpse
1. G. Tucker has no use for him. It
is quite safe to pigeon-hole a corpse:
he is not at all likely to crawl out of his
pigeon-hole and make a mess on T G
Tucker’s neat desk. In this volume there
are many things said supremely well but
in the wrong tone. T. G. Tucker never for-
gets that he is professor of classical philo-
logy and that liis readers are not professors
°f classical philology. His attitude is one
ot pitying condescension for Us less fortu-
nate beings.
“I know that there are people who cannot
see that these four simple lines [of Burns]
are the consummate expression of a vast
range of feeling. We can only pray that
Heaven will some day be merciful to them.”
“It is but rarely that an accomplished
judge of literature will speak out boldly and
unequivocally; without ‘hedging,’ so to
speak, and not onlv ■
low M« speaks plaiivy. .meugii r hciri dead
poetry fc/v.my vviUvu lie
V;?) tin* :>om numr.iv mac oven one name
o "'There «;•«?. to-daf singing m the
> ;gh o-i sotCu!led' T.inor poet* In
( -ip • i -iuCv the oeotjeal fortune of anv poeh
h • ;,.v. p-nod a.uc
OV . ’ -t,!’;: ’ ■ ,
U : !■ o : ih > h a
'• - I i . 'II .. „_K (~
their contemporaries, some of the time and
appreciation which they do not grudge to
give over and over again... .to the elaborate
conceits of the seventeenth century, etc.”
And T. G. Tucker is careful never to ven-
ture nearer the present day than John
Davidson and the early poems of William
Watson. Both of these poets are safe, safely
pigeon-holgd. Despite his professions, T.
G. Tucker remains the professor. He be-
lieves that: “The great ‘makers’ have passed
away, and there remain to us but certain
highly dexterous word-artificers and melo-
dists, a varied chorus of dainty, musical,
but mostly uninspired, writers of
poetical kave P as sed the crest of the
trmio-ii ’’ "A Ye A>.,A“. a are sunk into its
tiougn. A ciltioi«m uia- i„ n o i nir dig.
proved at this very moment, if T. G. TSsoLvr
can only open his eyes and look around, if,
even though blind, he can but listen to what
the critics of England are saying to-day.
Poetry was never in a more vigorous state
than it is now. The interest in poetry,
judged even by the establishment of journals
devoted solely to poetry, was never higher
in the whole course of history. The poetry
published in, say, The English Review,
is sufficient contradiction—from England.
The quality and even the sale of poetry in
the > Commonwealth are more than sufficient
criticism—from Australia.
T. G. Tucker is not only a professor of
classical philology: he is an Australian pro-
fessor of classical philology. According to
mm, judging by the absence of reference to
the subject in this volume, there is no poetry
m Australia—no _ poetry, that is, that is
worthy the attention of an Australian pro-
fessor of classical philology. The poets of
Australia, it seems to us, are less to be
pitied than the Professor. He will not even
admit that language is a living organism,
the subject of evolution. In his opinion
the infinitely richer, more subtle and more
flexible language of to-day is an example
of degeneracy. He has no use for anv
language but that of the Elizabethans—yet
he has not written his protest in the lan-
guage of the Elizabethans. The obsession
of classical philology has spoiled a book
that contains many admirable and well-
phrased expressions of the conventional,
conservative estimate of literature, is stylis-
tic and lucid, and betrays a wide familiarity
■with the respectable side of the literature
of the past.
j*
Sappho, the Ella Wheeler Wilcox of
antiquity, is the subject of an admirably
written monograph by T. G. Tucker
(Lothian, Melb., 2s. 6d.). Psappha, as she
probably signed herself, has had a consider-
able start on the Ella Wheeler Wilcoxes.
She survives largely on trust. We have to
take Antiqufty’s word for her. To the
Greeks “the poet” meant Homer; “the
poetess” meant Sappho. She composed
nine books of poetry, and out of these there
have survived only one complete poem, one
or two considerable' fragments and a nu 1 '
ber of scraps and lines—still being added °>
f b<i , latest London Times
m made of a few adjectives, several comm*,
and (possibly) one semicolon, that ha e
just been unearthed, and are credited y
at least some, of the experts to Sappho.
G. lucker gives all that is to be knoin
about her, and points out the difficulty f-
reconstructing the poetess from the frai
ments of. her writings, fragments seve4
from their context, and often, probabh
enunciating sentiments not those of the"
creator. It would be somewhat difficult fi
d.smto the real Bernard O'Dowd from hat
of one of his sonnets and a jumble of capita
letters recovered haphazard from the P r 2
of his poems Yet T. G. Tucker is in ordc
n calling attention to the overloading 3
Sapphos meaning by the well-meant effort
ot modern translators. He pleads for L
translation shorter and more faithful, am
gives several excellent examples from h~
own pen. The reader will, howevm b‘
amazed to find that, according to T.’ G
Tucker, Sappho was perfectly respectable
Indeed a strong claim could be made out
from this book that Sappho was the firs'
wowser of history. But this point of vieii
ma.y be overlooked, since, if Sappho had
not been, in her writings as in her life, re-
spectably suburban. T. G. Tucker wouldn’t
have touched her even in a paragraph. And
the little book is agreeable glaxo for good
little university babies.
The best criticism upon the N.S.W. edu-
cation system is that “Jimmie Pannikin” b
inspector of Schools. The Department
should be beyond criticism when “Jimmie
l anmkin ’ becomes. its official chief. That
a personality so vigorous, so inspiring, s<
patriotically Australian, so free from th‘
conservatism and limitations of the pedr
gogue, should remain in the service aiigu£ s
XX7 Ol ' ml le e J? ucat ion of the youth
That fine personality, Donald It
Eraser—to give him the nom de plume tha-
ted at his birth—infuses into hi'
? for Teachers (The Worker, Syd*
• ith the result that the book make 5
entertainment for all readers. Yc u
you are talking with a man w vo
has ideals but is determined
em into reality. If anything .' an
dead bones of education here is
:ian history 000**“’ w itk 170 shears
. impenetrable darkness, silent; as
Mi' tered grave mound, followed by
; 00 years of fitful gaps, interspersed
' D • nd and hearsay.” This statement
iorms the kernel of Richard Butters’ int>r-
esting pamphlet, What do We Believe? The
Four Gospels, with an epitome of Eaily
Christian Literature (Booth, Sydney, Is.).
The historical evidence has been summed
up expertly within small space. The Myth
of the Resurrection of Jesus, the Christ, by
W. J. Miles (Moore, Sydney, 6d.), is,
frankly, another attack upon the historical
basis of Christianity. “I am inspired to
write this pamphlet,” the author begins,
“in the hope that I may convert from
Christianity some of its believers.” On
the title-page the author states that his
pamphlet is a Rationalist’s answer to,
among other books, The Resurrection of
Jesus Christ, by W. H. H. Yarrington.
Miles is thoroughgoing: he pursues his
enemy closely with elaborate quotation and
enthusiastic italics. . Not only does he find
that there is no evidence for the resurrec-
tion of .Christ, but he is convinced of the
unhistoricity of Christ. His contention is
that the New Testament accounts oi most
of the “Jesus Christ” story are in fact only
transcripts of a mystery-play, and do not
represent the narrative of a real life. In
elucidation of his conclusion the autlor has
written five scenes in that mystery-pay, the
same dialogue as in Matthew, and tie same
sequence of action, set in its natural thea-
trical form. It is just as well that ;he copy-
right of the Bible has expired.
J*
. From Dandenong comes the final refuta-
tion of Darwin. Gerald Burton, in Plain
1 alks on World Problems (George Robert-
. essa y s "to point out ihe many
difficulties in the way of acceptance of the
theory of evolution to explain the mysteries
of . the Universe and of Life.” Character-
istically lie takes seriously the late Alfred
Russell Wallace’s delightful theory that the
whole universe has been created solely to
sustain life on its only inhabited portion,
the globe. The Dandenong Darvin is justi-
fied in pointing out that evolution is a
theory, not a law; but he can hardly expect
a. scientific public to assent to Ms judgment
that “The ready acceptance that has been
accorded to this theory or hypothesis, with-
out due reflection o.n the part of the edu-
cated community, would seem to imply that
mental degeneration has already set in, in
the cultured portion of the human race.” It
doesn’t prove anything to call the other
fellow degenerate. The Darwinian theory
has been attacked, modified, re-cast; but
the leaders of scientific thought have gener-
ally accepted a theory of evolution, as
opposed to the theory of separate creations.
It is evident that Gerald Burton does not
like the. It.P.A. Not even the Eugenists
have a kindly word from him. According to
this stern prophet from Dandenong “the
cause of feeble-mindedness, of prostitution
and of syphilis is found in one word— Sin
Remove the cause, and the evil lapses'
Eugenists are merely tinkering.” It sounds
a simple recipe.
Sydney Old and New: A Contrast (James
R. Tyrrell, Sydney), shows 48 comparative
views of the growth of Sydney. The publi-
cation is extraordinarily interesting, since in
each case the modern photographer has placed
his camera on the same spot on which the
bygone artist had set up his easel. The
result is a graphic indication of the process
of growth, or bloat.
Jt
Town Planning for Australia, by George
A. Taylor (Building, Ltd., Grosvenor-street,
Sydney), has no literary value, but the
large number of illustrations—photographs
of planned towns, of beautiful buildings,
plans of the cities of the future, including
the revised plans of Canberra —make it a
most informative and interesting publica-
tion. This hasty compilation of town-plan-
ning ideals and results is put together with
special reference to Australian conditions.
Chapters of interest deal with the history
of the Canberra competition and the de-
velopment, in full detail of site, streets,
water, sewerage and lighting services, trans-
portation, building, finance, organisation
and administration of the ideal Australian
city. In view of the forthcoming meeting
of the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science in Australia, and of the
lecture tour of two English authorities on
town-planning, the publication is opportune.
It might even be sufficiently opportune to
be called previous.
Rolled-gold poetry is still being indus-
triously manufactured by Australians. The
three latest examples are The Horns of
Taurus, by J. Griffyth Fairfax (Smith,
Elder), From Far Lands, by “Gervais
Gage” (J. Laurence Rentoul) (Macmillan),
and Wind on the Wold, by Alexander G.
Stephen (Max Goshen, 2s. Gd.). Griffyth
Fairfax, author of The Troubled Pool, valu-
able chiefly because of Lionel Lindsay’s
etching illustrations, continues to say noth-
ing with a portentous solemnity and many
classical allusions and literary echoes. ,T.
Laurence Rentoul does write nice narrative
verses, but of a wearying length and loose-
ness, and the 2-carat mark of the rolled-gold
is over them all. His solemnity is painful.
He “sends his message from Australia, the
Far Land of his adoption, anxious that her
Vision and her yearning should be sung
purely and worthily, with the human pulse-
beat old as Man’s Knowing and Sin and
Sorrow, and new as Man’s Love and Re-
morse and deathless Hope”—whatever in the
rolled-gold trade that may mean. This is in
his portentous foreword. He has a tomb-
stone of dedication to two late professors,
and an appreciation from one of them. His
poems are headed by classic quotations and
tailed by pages of pernieketty notes. We
gratefully learn that “Notes are appended
only where they seem quite necessary to the
clear understanding of terms and incidents
which enter into the structure of the poems.”
Boredom. Wind on the Wold is just the
sort of indefinite thing you would expect
from the title. There is a lot about roses
and other vegetables, and April and little
birds, and spring; and none of it matters.
The words are put together nicely, but they
refuse to evoke images. The poems remain
merely ink.
The latest issue of The Forest Flora of N.S.W. is
usefully illustrated by photographs of the trees
described taken in their natural habitat. An article
on “Saponins,” members of a group of glucosides
characterised by the property of producing a soapy
lather, obtained commercially from a Chilian tree,
informs us that many of the Australian trees possess
this substitute for soap. J. H. Maiden adds: “An
adequate chemical and physiological research on the
saponin-bearing trees and'other plants of Australia
is one of the desiderata, which, if people realised its
importance, scientific men would be at once com-
missioned to undertake.”
More Australian Girls’ Creeds
“Gay O'Hara’s” creed: —
I believe in a truthful tongue. I must love and
honor my parents and practise my modern ideas
without hurting' their ideals. I must respect my
mental superiors, and while I sincerely appreciate
my friends, I must not show to them much candor
about myself. I believe in the Almighty, because I
haven’t the cheek to suppose the creation to be a
scientific accident. I appreciate it as the creation
of a controlling Force. I do not believe that any
particular creed opens up a definite path to Heaven.
The tenets of right and wrong are sufficiently inter-
esting for me to follow the path that will enable me
to keep my self-respect. I believe in decent manners
and beautiful clothes, because they create a person-
able atmosphere. I believe in the cultivation of my
intellect, in an athletic life and in political freedom
for women. Unless a woman is coerced by her hus-
band or father she shows some intelligence over any
political situation. In any case a woman should
not necessarily be classed with children and imbe-
ciles. I believe in love because it is manifest in any
state of society, and —I believe in doing my own
hunting without maternal aid. If the “loved one”
is cautious or timid I am fully justified in using
all my wits to bring about a satisfactory under-
standing. I do not believe in blind obedience to my
husband. I believe that in matrimony the con-
tracting parties take upon themselves a mutual obli-
gation which should develop comradeship and decent
fidelity. I believe that in the bearing of children I
am obeying a primal duty to myself, my husband and
my country. I believe I have a standard to live up
to. I desire to be a companion to my soul and to make
the best of my life. I am a descendant of the
pioneers. In me they left a trust which I hereby
acknowledge. lam the average Australian girl, and
I believe that T am the mental and physical superior
of my ancestors.
“ Jane's” creed: —•
I believe that I must be courteous and kind towards
my parents and elderly relatives. I believe that my
casually condescending attitude towards them should
not become so apparent as to transgress the bounds
of good taste. I believe that I should obey my
parents when their wishes do not cross my own. I
believe that I must treat my inferiors with politeness
and consideration. I believe that I should outwardly
at least conform to the conventionalities and morals
of my class. I believe in expensive clothes, slightly
ahead of the prevailing fashions, in fine linen, in
bodily cleanliness. I believe in a lavish use of
powder and lip-salve. I believe that I may wear
false hair if my own be scanty. I believe that I
must on all occasions, and at any cost, present a
well-groomed appearance. I believe that I must
admire music and gush over it. I believe that I must
read all the more lurid 'problem novels of the day,
and that I must admire no poems save those of Ella
Wheeler Wilcox. I believe that all actors and
actresses dead a life of sin and intrigue, with the
exception of certain matinfie idols whom I take to
my young heart, and of whom I will think no evil.
I believe in love, or at any rate in a certain senti-
mentality which passes as such. I believe each sep-
arate effervescence of this sentimentality to be the
one great love of my life, I believe in a vague and
conventional manner in God, in the Church of my
upbringing, in the Four Last Things. I believe that
I was put into this world simply in order to have a
thoroughly good time. I may not do anything to
deserve it; I may lead an utterly frivolous and
worthless life, but I am here to enjoy myself, and' I
intend to do it. In time I will marry and settle
down ; but for the present youth and hope are mine,
and I mean to live.
“Erie’s” creed: —
I believe in Government House and think it Heaven
on earth. And in the Melbourne Cup—the next best
thing, which was conceived bv the V.R.C. and turned
by us into a parade of clothing. I believe I know
how to take care of myself better than any chaperone,
and that Mrs. Grundv is dead and not likely to rise
again, and if she did I believe I would not ask her
to dinner nor bow to her in the street. I believe
that to be dowdy is to be damned, and that last
season’s hat is no sign of virtue. I believe in playing
the game, unless the other girl is an absolute CAT
who deserves all she gets. I believe in a mild flirta-
tion when the other sort is not available, and in the
necessity for an ample supply of nice men. I believe
in my own independence and in my own ability to
make good whatever I am up against. I believe a
good deal less of what the men tell me than they
think I do. I believe in open-work stockings, mixed
bathing, doing the block, the necessity of getting
married, and that someone else should have the large
families—and I believe that hereafter I shall go to
a celestial Government House Ball, and by angelic
Aides be whirled without end.—Amen.
We lern from the kurent number ov The
Pioneer, the organ ov the Simplified Speling
Sosieti, that the membership haz groen in
li.tl mor than tuu yeerz from 430 tu 2301.
This, The Pioneer claimz, iz signifikant
ov an inkrees in publik interest in the wurk
ov speling reformerz. The pioneers du not
claim that thayr sistem iz az yet purfidit
and kompleet—it iz a baisis ov diskushon.
Thayre iz everiwliair a haitred ov chainj,
espeshaili amung the kultivaited klaasez.
Tu the objekshon: “O, yu ar spoiling the
langwij,” thay obzerv that the struktyur
and the grarnar ov it wood remain just the
saim—oenli the wai ov pooting it doun
wood be aulterd. Wei, this Paij haz no
prejoodisez. If The Pioneer kan get the
publik to riet this way, wo wil joyn in. It
is_ ded eezi. Meentim the Sekretari ov the
Simplified Speling Sosieti shood spel his
naiiu and his postal adres in simplified spel-
ing._ insted ov poofing it doun in the present
antikwated and redikyuluz fashun. He kan
then juj bi the araownt of bis korespondens
that goz astray how the reform is progres-
ing amung the postal awthoritiez.


Ini
4
Vr
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR FASHION AND ECONOMY
wfenoMumm-tom
r
*v
§!>■&
Mg
07*
0735
<?*/6
33/6
3030
27/6
KM
2/k
Our Winter
Fashion
Portfolio
is an authorita=
tive guide to the
prevailing
modes. Write
for a copy, post
free on request.
It will interest
you.
OF
arvd ECO/N'OMY.
AnTHO nY HoßDEßfvjg,
m
21659
2436 2(644
79/ft f «°" r 21644
21655
21623
99/6
97/6
No. 80S. Full Length Black Cloth Coat, fancy back, large round Collar of Self, Revets
faced Black Satin and finished Silk Military Braid ........ 24/6
Same style. No. 496, rough Black Cheviot Serge, plain Self Revers, strap at back 23/6
Or same material, No. 1342 33/6
'r plain Black Cloth, No. 6441 29/6
9735. — Serviceable Seven-eighth Length Coat, of soft Diagonal Tweed, new inlet
back, circular Collar and fancy Revers piped Velvet, finished Braid and Buttons, in Tan, Saxe
or Grey shades .' 24/6
Same design, No. 109, warm, reversible Blanket Tweed, seven-eighth length, Grey or Heather
Mixture 32/6
Or in striped Blanket Tweed, No. 3051, rich Brown or Grey shades ... 34/6
No. 3058. — Warm, Soft Blanket Tweed Coat, seven-eighth length, wide strap effect
across back, finished pipings and buttons, new square Collar, double-breasted fronts fastening
high at neck, in Tan, Brown, Saxe, Light or Dark Grey shades 27/6
No. 2974. Dressy Full Length Coat, of Nayy Cheviot Serge, straight-cut back, new
inset Sleeves with deep Cuffs, scalloped Collar and cross-over fronts richly embossed.... 33/6
No. 1606. — We1l Cut Full Length Coat, of Navy Vicuna Cloth, new, straight-cut back,
. eollar finished rows of Self stitching, Revers trimmed piped buttonholes and buttons to
tone 21 /-
Similar style. No. 1313, rough Navy Blanket Cloth, Collar and Revers of Black Cloth and contrast
Satin pipings 21
No. 21655. Well-tailored Coat and Skirt, in fine Navy or Black' Suiting Serge, Collar
and Cuffs are. edged with Black and White Block Stripe Silk; finished fancy square bone
buttons, in White with Black edge. The back is relieved with new flap ends from waist as
inset design; smartly-cut Skirt, slightly draped at side, and finished satin bow 99/6
No. 2436. Face Cloth Coat and Skirt, with fine White Pencil Stripe, Collar, Cuffs anJ
Vest effect of bullion Broche. The Coat is made Magyar; style with i{ sleeves, folded Silk belt
with stole ends at front; smartly-cut Skirt, with shaped hjp seams open at foot. In Mole shade
only 79/6
No. 21644. Tailor-made Coat, and Skirt, in Navy Suiting, Collar of the new Pan Velour
Brocade; has Self folds on sleeves and down centre back, finished Silk braid ends and bone
buttons. Skirt has folds and braid ends to match 89/6
No. 21659. Smartly Cut Costume, in fine Black Coaling Serge, has Black Satin Collar
finely braided in Blank and Gold, finished Silk cord tassel ends and bone buttons; high-waisted
Skirt, with shaped lapped seams 97/6
No. 21623. — Very Dressy Tailored Costume, in fine Suiting Serge, Coat has Vest effect
of Cream fine Cloth, braided in Black, finished Satin tie with fringed ends, and is slightly eased
into shape piece at waist; fancy bone buttons with White centres. Skirt has lap seams with
buttons and buttonhole effect at foot 90/6
AnW r ns SefecfWinferGoais
«
705
ryj
37/G
2 !/S
77/a
Our
Illustrated
Price Lists
place the im=
mense resources
of the New
Palace Empor=
ium at the corn-
mand of every=
one. Write for
copies, post free
anywhere.
2//Of>
2.-m
No. 10. Smart Seven-eightll Length Coat, of Black Vicuna Clotli, straight-cut back, large
Collar and Revere faced Silk and trimmed Black Cable Braid 37/6
Similar style, No. 2998, Collar edged Bengaline Silk 33/6
Also same design, No. 1607, Black Cloth Coat, Collar and Revers of Self, edged double rows of
Silk Braid 29/6
No. Al3B3.—Navy Vicuna Cloth Coat, seven-eighth length, double Collar and Revers effec-
tively trimmed Black Silk Military Braid, fastening to side with large Frog Ornament.. 18/6
Similar style, No. 1555, in Navy Cheviot Serge, trimmed Braid 17/6
No. 505. Model Full Length Coat, Of Cordurov Velour Cloth, stylish tube back and inset
Sleeves, large Collar and double Revers piped Suede Velvet to tone, in soft shades of Tan.'Mole,
Purple and Brown /-
No. 709. Becoming; Coat, of soft Blanket. Fleece, smart, back with cross-cut diagonal fold
at foot, and welted seams, circular Collar and long Revers of Self, finished Buttons, in shades of
Golden Brown, Purple, Mole and Dark Brown 29'6
No. 1437. 1 seful Coat, of Diagonal Blanket Tweed, Raglan sleeve, straight-cut
back, Coat Collar of Suede Cloth to tone, Revers of . Self, in smart shades of Grey, Saxe, Tan,
Rose, Mole ; _
Same design, No. 1523, in Grey, Navy, Light and Dark Brown. Diagonal Blanket Tweed.. 29/6
No. 21109. Smart Coat and Skirt Costume, Of Navy Cheviot Serge; Coat is unlined,
trimmed Black Satin on front of Collar; Four-piece Skirt, finished Buttons 29/6
2104. New Design, in smart Navy Cheviot Serge; facings of Lime, 'lan or t.rcy lace
Cloth give stylish contrasting effect 32/6
No. 211 93. Stylish Coat and Skirt, of Rough Cheviot Serge ; unlincd Coat, Black Satin
Collar, Silk Braid loop buttons: Navy or Black 29/6
No. 21104. Fashionable Coat and Skirt, in Navy Cheviot; Coat has Black Satin Collar,
and buttons close to neck; Four-piece Skirt 2*/6
No. 25022.—C0at and Skirt Costume, of Black or Navy Amazon Cloth, with fine A* nitc
stripe semi-fitting Coat, with Bel# at back; Four-piece Skirt finished with strappings and Buttons
to correspond
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace
BricKfieici Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ww^mamm
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges.
"New Rival"
No black powder cartridges have so many strong
points to recommend them as Winchester “New
Rival.” Their uniform shooting qualities are due to
the fact that the shells are made of high-class,
tested materials, and loaded with the best brands
of powder, shot and wadding. The patented
corrugated head, and the solid, gas-tight, fire-
proof base construction used in Winchester
cartridges, coupled with a system o.
loading which gives invariable results, pro-
duces a quality that is unsurpassed.
Insist Upon Having Winchester, The
W Brand . Sold The World Over .
Ml
W f'
% k
sr
$
S?
'j®
i
ss
yw
cd
•c
&
y-
'
STANDS
4 feet
HIGH.
NO
STOOPING
USE the SUCCESS
EMERY GRINDER
for ALL GRINDING.
For grinding Drills, Castings, Scissors, Knives and
all kinds of Tools, the “Success” Emery Grinder
is unapproached.
This Grinder, being worked by a Treadle, leaves
both hands free to hold the article to be ground.
Blacksmiths and Mechanics of all descriptions will
find the “Success” invaluable.
Can be clamped to a wall and takes up practically
no space.
By easily working the Treadle 3000 revolutions a
minute can be obtained.
No handle to turn, therefore no arm to tire.
Blunt Tools need no longer be thrown away.
Make them as good as new with the
“SUCCESS.”
Fitted with. Emery
Wheel, ljin. x Sin.
Price - - 30/
The FAIRBANKS,
THE MACHINE that
STANDS ALONE.
The Fairbanks Weighing
Machine carries with it a guaran-
tee of accuracy and perfection in
workmanship. The size of the plat-
form enables unwieldy bags, etc., to he
weighed with ease. Being on wheels
it can easily be removed to any
desired position, which obviates the
necessity of carting heavy articles io
be weighed.
The mechanism is so adjusted that
there is no danger of it breaking when
loading or unloading.
Capacity 4001 b.
Size of Platform, 16 x 22.
inches.
PRICE, 75/-
Our»new 300-page Catalogue of Tools
for the Farm, Home and Workshop
will be ready shortly. Write for it!
MSzPfiersoifl)
K Proprietary Ltd.
554-66 & 582-88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
B.S.A.
cheapest in the end.
It is not only the initial outlay that counts
when buying a bicycle, it is what will it
cost to keep in proper going order during
the years you will want to use it.
II you buy a cheap "pattern ” bicycle you will probably
prove to your sorrow that it will have cost you twice
the amount ol a machine built of Genuine B.S.A.
Fittings. Don’t run any risk, have a B.S.A. Bicycle
built of Genuine B.S A. Fittings—it is cheapest in the
end.
REMEMBER—ALL B S.A. PARTS
PERFECTLY INTERCHANGEABLE.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOR
TBIS MARK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
m&Dc Mints
B.S.A»
B.S.A.
SPARE
PARTS
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
B-SA r 'T T ' NC i
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORPCRN ®. SONS LTP.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/0. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A verv accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
24-2-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST
SMOKE
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
The Better Way of
Gleaning Knives and Forßs
Clamp it to the table or
other convenient place, and
using it is a pleasure.
The old way of the Knife Board is dirty, tedious, and
not expeditious. Expensive Machines do not do it
more thoroughly than the New, Neat and Compact
Harras Cleaner
and Sharpener.
Cleans and Brightens Knives and Forks without the
least trouble. Just a touch on the sharpening part
and the annoyance of a blunt knife departs.
This splendid, efficient and service-
able machine costs only-
It feeds the knife powder automatically, and saves
every fraction of it, so that it may be used again and
again, the economy thus effected paying for the
machine.
If ordering by mail please add 1/6 for postage. We
send it securely packed, and guarantee satisfaction.
One lady user has bought several for her friends. As
the present supply is limited, order yours at once —it
costs so little.
JOHN DANKS & SON
PROPRIETARY LTD.,
The Home of Modern Interior Fittings,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, near Liverpool Street.
Melbourne Address: 391 BOURKE STREET.


DON'T NEGLECT
YOUR HAIR
Your looks demand that you
should take care of it, make
it more beautiful, more lus-
trous, softer ; you can easily
and readily do so by using
ROWLAND’S
MACASSAR
_
which nourishes, strengthens,
nurtures, and promotes the
growth of Fine Silky Hair;
you will notice an improve-
ment from the first time you
use it. Use it for your own
and your Children’s Hair;
Golden Colour tor Fair Hair.
Sold in three sizes by Stores,
Chemists, and Rowland’s,
67, Hatton Garden, London.
Avoid cheap imitations under
the same or similar name.
WORLD'S CYCLE RECORD
MEAD
M. Planes on a 7 year 01. l British made All-
Steel Mead Modele SOperbh
* COVENTRY FLYER 9
Rode 34*366 Miles in 366 Hays
(officially authenticated*. Beat ov* r 650 com-
petitors on up-to-date cvcles.
MEAD CYCLES STAND THE TEST.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Models £3-10 to £9
Direct from factory, Packed Free, C&rrfage
Paid to your port. Ten Days’ Free l rial.
Motor Cycles and Cycle-Cars at F'actory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue,
and Marvellous Oilers. Agents llamed.
CYCLE COMPANY,
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL.
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(in Ink) by using: your own Letter-paper
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is. no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Bin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 10ji x
B£, post free 4/6 ; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
for 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies, Bin. x sin., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd., Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
8$
vp
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES'
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6. posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
r£LE¥|
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
iHI
Eley *4lO ‘Universal'
mam
Eley
‘ Universal'
ALight-Brown
Cartridge,
loaded with 3
drs.T.S. Black
Powder and
14 oz. of shot.
Eley
‘Fourlong’
A ’4lO bore
24 in. Indian
Red Gastight
Cartridge,load-,
ed with Eley
(33 gr.) Smoke-
less Powder
and No. 6 or
shot.,
Eley -38
Automatic
For Webley
& Scott or
Colt Auto-
matic Pistols.
Eley -380
Automatic
Hammerless
For Webley &
Scott or Colt
Automatic Pistols.
UJ CO
rim
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS. L T -P LONDON
THE Australian Magazine—THE LONG
HAND. The National Monthly. Price. 6d.
f- p
HI
BON iN! N 0 T OK r -3
MW MOSS
* »»tu>T«'irw.
r ‘o : .v
Rfl
The Cough Remedy for
Australian Homes.
Safe and Reliable.
Good for Old and
Young.
Try Bonnington’s for
Stubborn Colds and
Bronchitis, and you
will be well satisfied.
RUNKENNESS
SECRETLY
CURED!
Drunkards can now be cured in their own homes without thoir knowledge.
No matter how long they have been drinking, Golden Specific will cure
them permanently. It is tasteles and odorless and acts quickly. Guaranteed
harmless.
FREE SAMPLE and Book, giving full particulars, also testimonials, will
" ■* & & be sent on receipt of 2d. stamp to pay postage.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO. (Dept. B 2013), PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
■X
s*
Wr
B
Can be Developed to Normal.
It matters not if you have been thin and scraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your measurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every day for others —why not you ?
Manager. Falliere Co. Hekeia, N.Z.
Bear Sir.—T am well pleased with the results from using Iflesli-
l'"ood and the general improvement in my condition, for which
I thank you very much Indeed, for my husband and I are both
well pleased.
From the very beginning I improved wonderfully—the giddiness that had bothered
me for years disappeared, as did the rheumatism from my legs. Both of these
troubles had caused me much severe suffering.
My limbs were thinnest, and they began to noticeably increase first of all, ending
in a nine-inch increase in my hip measurement. A general development now became
noticeable, anil my chest and bust filled out.
I bad now gained all I needed —a full stone in weight. As I have lost neither
weight nor measurements since stopping the treatment, I consider the results per-
manen . Vours very truly, MRS. H. HODGES.
Flesh-Food is totally harmless in every respect. Its efficacy is beyond question, and its
use is no demand upon the subject's time. Many cases have gained up, to six pounds a week,
an , „ an , ' ic, 'ea ! -e m bust, measurement up to eight and ten inches is possible. Flesh-Food offers
relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who have despaired of ever
possessing a presentable figure. It: is a nerve and tissue food treatment that adds weight and
permanent development to attenuated women. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
Let us send
you a Free
Sample.
TRIAL SAMPLE FREE
We publish an interesting- book on the
, , subject of attenuation and development
and will send same and a Free Sample Treatment to you FREE OF CHARGE
upon receipt of a 2d. stamp to pay part postage. All communications are
treated as strictly confidential. (1823)
F’AELIERE FLESH-FOOD tlO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
CN I ERPRISING PRESERV E CANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
for packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
mads by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies 1-jin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible ciunges is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to anv PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is 'SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
DOUBIIp' SP \M ° AN enSaffeS tlle rollers ’ making a CLEAN and tight
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON. NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
Tobacco
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, “The Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day.
H. SINCLAIR (Eb CO.,
Dept. O,
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of Tiie Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
i regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
..else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO*,
349 Collins-st., Melbourne, Vic.
4 lAj AUtSTRALiAiNiiS visiting London
il. should read the British • Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices. 115 High Idol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge!.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nocturne.
Your eyes in the pine shadows burning,
Twin stars in the Night of Desire,
Are tremulous, passionate, yearning,
Aflame with mysterious fire!
I woo you. a true son of Adam.
You chide, a true daughter of Eve. ...
Last night you could dupe me, dissemble,
To-night it is vain to deceive!
A moth in the murk of disfavor,
A butterfly bathed in the sun.
A chance-wind hath blown us love-savor
Ensnared in a web newly spun;
I know it means madness, means sorrow,
You know it means sin and regret;
A banquet of kisses —then ashes !
’Twere better we part now—forget!
The spots on your gauze wings betray you,
The dew on your lips is red wine,
For passion, the god that shall slay you,
Your flesh is as hungry as mine !
Lour lips that are worth a king’s ransom,
Your heart that I only have seen !.. ..
But I am a moth of disfavor
And you a rare Butterfly-Queen!
You know I shall spare not, shall take you,
As sure as the stars watch above.
To love’s shining altar and make you
My sacrifice —you and your love!
Co, go, while the stars give you guidance,
From Night the mute mystic, away !
The fierce flame that blinds you. night’s
passion.
Is powerless to hurt you by §a.v !
N.S.W,
W. M. WHITNEY.
The Little Girl.
I know a little girl whose eyes,
So soft and true,
Reckon me on to paradise,
And very gently plead and sue
When present joy or comfort flies I
They wrap my spirit in a glow
Changing but constant like the sea,
They coax me with a witchery
That makes my life a song;—but, oh,
This tender little girl I know
Does not know me.
IDr heart’s a treasure-house fulfilled
With priceless things:
When mourning for the sweets I’ve spilled
I through its crystal windows peer
My every agony is stilled
And I can hear
The beating of great angels’ wings,
And grave, gold music pealing clear
In ecstasy
That lifts me on its overflow
To dream, “Mavbe
Some day the little girl I know
May yet know me!”
While mourning for the sweets I’ve spilled,
For evil deeds that T have willed,
For profits of this life of mine
Flung to the harpies and the swine,
Sometimes my lurking sorrows cease
To menace and devour my peace.. ..
I know a little girl whc«e eyes
Still beckon me to paradise.
MAORTLANO.
FRANK MORTON.
The Fireside Cry.
With her lustrous eyes grown dark,
Calling death her dearest friend—
She, whose world is but begun,
Deems that world is at an end.
For she crouches nigh the tire
Half in darkness, still as stone,
And her red lips move in speech,
As she muses all alone.
“Oh, the rain is falling tears!
And the wind is in the trees,
And it sighs and sighs again,
And the world is ill at ease.
“I am all alone —alone—
Like an aged and ailing thing,
And I cannot be at rest
With my wild remembering.
“For a proud place was my heart
In the gay and golden times
When it housed the Prince of All,
With his roses and his rhymes.
“For Love is sure a prince,
Any earthly prince above ;
And is there house or hall
Like the heart that shelters Love?
“It was filled with singing birds
That made music day and night:
And the dancing, twinkling feet
Of dear damsels of Delight.
“And glad Youth in gay attire
With a plume of gold to suit,
Led the mad and merry rout
To the music of a lute.
“And a thousand things on wings
Fluttered round in endless flight;
Some were fancies, some were hopes—
Ah! But where are they to-night?
“As I sit beside the fire,
Cheek-by-jowl and knee to knee —•
Half in darkness, half in light—
Sit a thousand more with me.
“And in each a ruin hides
That was once a glowing hall,
Where of old in rosy hours
There abode the Prince of All.
“And they think of what has been,
And what shall not be again ;
And they listen to the wind,
And they hearken to the rain.
“For the rain upon the roof
Is a broken thing that grieves ;
And a hurt life is the wind
As it sighs among the leaves.”
N.S.W.
KODERIC QUINN.


V
r
The better judge you are of a good
cigarette the better you will like
CIGARETTES.
Their fine, mild flavor and delightful aroma are
responsible for their increasing popularity.
In Turkish or Virginia.
All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by j
NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
U "j
A
FLOOD YOUR SHOP AND STORE WITH
LIGHT WITHOUT FUSS AND DANGER.
Many so-called ‘“Patent” Lighting Plants bring a whole sheaf
of trouble and fuss—and are fraught with the danger of
explosion. Electricity is the finiost display light,
and it causes absolutely no trouble.
The “Lister-Brustou” Plant (as illustrated, com-
plete) generates Electricity automatically. The
En'gine and Dynamo start themselves as soon as tin*
lights are switched on. No costly storage Battery
is needed—the lights are lit direct from the Dynamo.
Low in cost, and delivered practically
ready for connecting up to Shop Wir-
ing. May we talk it over with you in
person or by post?
AGENTS:
N.S.W.: W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.,
379 Clarence Street, Sydney.
>IC.: Sutherland & Ashman, Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Winchcombe, Carson
htd., Creek Street, llrisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Clutterlmck liros.,
Adelaide.
I
I
1f
K
<*
m
■
:
“Lister-Bruston” Automatic Electric
Lighting Plant.
Dinneford’s
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“ DINNEFORD'S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
all Moustache?
Well, what’s the use
of merely wishing;—
why don’t you get
GAPILLARINE?
It never fails to produce au splendid moustache, and its use cannot be detected.
Don't despair if your haitr .growth is thin and scanty—this splendid prepara-
tion will develop "a good hair growth in a very short time.
Hundreds have proved its merit —why not you?
GET A JARr TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6. 3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
‘M3MXIV T 2) OIVHO
654- George Street, Sydney-
Established 30 Years.
We
«e.i»
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as' a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invfiflids, etc—apart from
its lriigh-grade merit as a light
beverage.
087/AINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CUUBS, HOTI~LS,\ RESTAURANTS,
etc.
WARM OVERCOATS
for WINTER TOURING
We now have on hand one of the Choicest
Selections of Motor Overcoats that has ever
been brought under your notice.
The range comprises some beautiful pat-
terns of Scotch Tweeds, Cheviots, Friezes and
Duffles, both Fleece and soft leather lined.
For a Limited Period Only we are offering
these Coats at a SPECIAL DISCOUNT of 15%.
DARK GREY DUFFLE, fleece lined 63/-
Lcather lined 95/-
CHOICE DARK SHADES in thick
WOOLLEN TWEEDS, with
Warm fleece Lining .... 70/- and 90/-
A Few Special, High-grade Coats,
of Thick Woollen Frieze, with
detachable, super-grade Leather
Lining, at 6 and 7 Guineas
ALL LESS 15% (3/- in £).
We invite all Motorists to call and inspect,
but, should you be unable to do so, we would
forward, Carriage Paid, one or more Coats to
select from.
, i - ■
ill
m
:•
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George St., Sydney.
10.“> Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
07a Gawler Place, Adelaide.
307 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
mi
WO,
Look Well
at the Name.
When you are buying SHI-NOLEUM
—look well at the name which Is on
the top and bottom of every genuine
tin; beware of the Inferior imitations
—which are only offered on account
of larger profits.
SHI-NOLEUM Is the best polish for
Linoleums, Wood Floors and Furnit-
ure. It will enable you to do your
work in half the usual time.
Sold by all
Storekeepers
In N.S.W.,
Victoria
and
Queensland
*
Skilled labor at its lowest
cost does not commence to
compete with AJAX Forging
Machines in quantity or
quality of work.
These illustrations show a few of the forgings that can be made on
AJAX machines as fast as two men can handle the stock.
Ajax Forging Machines are strong and positive in action with exclusive
timing and safety devices. They operate without shock or jar.
If you make duplicate forgings we can save you money. An investment
in AJAX Forging Machines pays big dividends.
i
Send us sketches or blue prints of your work and we will tell you just
how much the AJAX can increase your production and decrease your
costs of manufacture.
WE STOCK THESE MACHINES.
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
Full Stock of all Classes of Engineers’ Machine Tools,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post .is a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—N0. 1794.
THURSDAY, JULY 2, 1914.
PlilCß Gi).
THE OPTIMISM OF YOUTH.
Apropos Willie Watt’s forsaking the Victorian Liberal Leadership for Federal Uncertainties.
THE RUNAWAY BOY: “She may be an old tub; still, she IS an ocean-going vessel —and we’re sure to run into bad weather —and that poor old skipper looks
just about done—and we’re about the same build for a uniform—and—and. Why, there’s no knowing what might happen!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosrnan, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: {
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
lor a year.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves ) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. 'To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
for the preservation or transmission of
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draum—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada .—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J,!,l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
LV1 S o C ,°” p, ‘i ladel P h ia, U.S.A.; W. E. Lenehan, 585
<SJth Street, San hrancisco; Queen City News Co
Itandolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, US A ’
.Egypt.— Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.—Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Colonibo*' — W ‘ P ' Perera ’ 16 Baillia Street, Fort
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at-
1/6 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6$jin.
x ljin., and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 16oz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: 8oz., Id., 8\oz.
to 10oz., 21 d.; lOoz. to 12oz., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
ffuTtßuUetin.
THURSDAY, JULY 2, 1914.
ABOUT THE HABIT OF SHUDDERING
AT FEDERAL PAPER MONEY.
When the Federal Labor party resumes
possession of its crown and dignity—an
event which may happen at almost any
moment now r —it is to be hoped that it will
repair with all possible speed one serious
blunder of its bygone finance. In other
words, it is to be hoped that it will no
longer allow the private banks to make a
jest and a sport of the Federal note, issue.
The private bank never pays in notes unless
they are asked for, and in this
respect the Commonwealth Bank is the same
sinner as the rest. They all seem to con-
sider it their business to push the circula-
tion of gold, which is an absurd affair, for
the old note can be boiled down into pulp
and made, at microscopic cost, into a new
note, while the worn-out sovereign has to be
repaired out of the country’s irreplaceable
and fast-diminishing mineral capital. The
waste of a £1 note means the loss of perhaps
4d., while the waste of a £1 coin means the
loss of 20s. The material of which notes are
made grows afresh every year, for all paper
money is grass; while the material of which
sovereigns are made is never likely to grow
again, here or anywhere else. In this matter
of circulation Australia differs remarkably
from most countries. In Scotland, for in-
stance, notes are handed over the bank
counter as a matter of course, and a demand
for the yellow metal is met by a surprised
stare and a moment of staggered hesitation.
But it is in the matter of the Australian
10s. note that things are worst. The boy-
cott has settled down good and hard. Very
few banks profess even to tolerate the 10s.
note. Institutions with swelled heads and
establishments with stomachs that protrude
into the next parish shudder when it is men-
tioned. The quantity of 10s. notes in circu-
lation is infinitesimal. The people have no
objection to them but they don’t know where
to get them. A few weeks ago the writer
passed one of the documents in an hotel in
Sydney. And when the astounded hand-
maiden spoke the denomination of the note
aloud a bar-leaner straightened up suddenly
and offered to buy it at a small premium.
He thought it was a rare curio, like a holey
dollar or a Hebrew shekel or a rose noble
or something of the sort.
* * * *
The next Federal Labor Government
should take steps to obviate this habit of
shuddering at the sight of Government paper
currency. After all, the institutions with
swelled heads and the establishments with
chests that bulge into the next parish are
wholly dependent on the Federal authority
for such privileges as they enioy. The Aus-
tralian Parliament has the sole right to legis-
late on banking matters; and if that Parlia-
ment happens to become really angry it may
do surprising things. If the country chances
to elect a short-tempered Parliament, or one
with gout, corns, neuralgia or other disturb-
ing influences it may even do very surprising
things. In the British Isles there have
been a Long Parliament, a Short Parlia-
ment, a Rump Parliament, a Mad Parlia-
ment, a Drunken Parliament and other
strange samples, and a Short-Tempered Leg-
islature is not outside the bounds of possi-
bility. A body of that sort might impose
restrictions and disabilities on the banks
which scoff at its currency which would
make a material difference in the profits.
Everything would depend upon how irritable
and snappy the Short-Tempered Parliament
happened to be. If it was something like
the small dog that barks all night the results
would be astonishing.
* * * *
When the Federal Labor party comes back
to power, it should begin the reform of its
banking policy by abolishing the half-sove-
reign and making the ten-shilling note take
its place. The half-sovereign is a thin, dim
ghostly sort of coin, which looks wonderfully
like a sixpence in \ the twilight or when
viewed through a maze of beer. There is
no profit on the coinage of either it or the
sovereign. Coining a shilling consists in the
simple and profitable art of putting a stamp
on 4|d. worth or sd. worth of silver and
calling the result 12d., but the gold coin, if
boiled down, represents practically its face
value. The smaller gold coin wears out even
faster than the sovereign if it is circulated
instead of being quietly stored away as secur-
ity for paper money, and the wear and tear
is dead loss. Another enactment that is
badly required would command all bank tel-
lers to pay out automatically in Federal
paper, and only give gold when it is asked
for, instead of automatically offering gold,
and only giving notes with a surprised ex-
pression when they are positively demanded.
The surprised expression, if persisted in,
should be worth a fine of 40s. The habit of
shuddering when 10s. notes are asked for
should be made worth a fine of 60s. And,
incidentally, every private bank should be
required to hold (say) 40 per cent, of its
cash reserves in Federal paper money—at
least one quarter of the amount in 10s.
notes —thereby showing its faith in the Com-
monwealth. If it doesn’t really possess faith
in the Commonwealth it should be compelled
by Act of Parliament to find the article under
a penalty of at least 80s. And the teller
who throws Federal notes scornfully across
the counter instead of handing them over in
the ordinary way should be fined £5.
The Federal Government note issue has
vindicated itself so far as it has gone. Its
establishment has done no visible injury to
the joint stock banks, for their profits have
.steadily increased since the beginning of the
new order of things. No one can show that
it has in any way bashed, dinted or damaged
trade or credit. In fact, there is a great deal
overmuch trade and a little injury wouldn’t
be amiss: and while one spendthrift State
can find £8,500,000 of loan money to scatter
in a single year credit seems quite super-
abundant. A profit of £400,000 has already
accumulated on the Federal note busi-
ness after paying all expenses con-
nected with the issue. In other words, to
quote a saying of The Bulletin years ago,
it is a case of making, wealth out of nothing.
In cash and saleable,.securities the reserve
held against the Federal paper money now
represents about 21s. in the £. This is held
against the notes alone, and is not like the
gold reserves of the old banks of issue, which
were liable to be mopped up by depositors
before note-holders got a look in. Yet, with
all this, the position might be a lot better.
The profits would easily be three times or
four or six times as great if the banks were
compelled by law, as already mentioned,
to hold (sav) 40 per cent, of their cash re-
serves in Federal paper, and made, under
heavy penalties, to give up the habit of
saying coldly that they don’t keep the 10s.
note. In fact, they should rather be re-
quired to push the article. And the profits
of the business should be indelibly ear-
marked and incurably nailed down as a sink-
ing fundi accumulating at compound interest,
for the acquisition by the Commonwealth of
the State debts. It should be the ambition
of the Federal authority to become the sole
creditor of the States —partly in the hope of
one day getting this country out of the pawn-
shop and partly as a means to suppress the
needless bumptiousness of State politicians.
The scheme outlined above is one means to
these two good ends.
* * * *
For these and other reasons The Bulle-
tin waits in the hope that Andrew Fisher
will declare his intention of vastly extending
his note-issue scheme when he comes back
to the place where he naturally belongs. If
he doesn’t, he will miss a big chance of ad-
vertisement. Labor has had its misfortunes
and its failures like other parties—the North-
em. -territory railway failure being the worst,
it isn t necessary for it to mention its dis-
asters ; other people will attend to that. Its
business is to shout in the popular ear about
its biggest success—that is what the popular
ouf r 5! or an d to follow up the success.
. e Commonwealth has only made a begin-
mng yet at the pleasant art of creating
wealth out of nothing. There are huge possi-
bilities in front of it.
THE COMMISSION HABIT.
If Australia wants to get certain badly-
needed reforms through before Armageddon
tj will apparently have to either abolish
aity Government, or alter the Constitution
in such a way as to empower the Federal
Parliament to pass an Act making it a
criminal offence for any Minister or other
Clown official to grant a Commission of
Inquiry anywhere, in regard to anything,
and imposing terms of imprisonment and
Heavy fines on those who assist or comfort
or. help a Commission in any way. Under
existing conditions the only variety of
change on a big scale which has a dog’s
chance ot getting through Parliament
quicKiy is one which cannot be inquired
!? to ail y Commission. That was where
tfie Defence movement scored. Australia
had not declared half as vehemently, six
.years ago, for compulsory service and a local
navy as it had for an effective tariff. But
i was impracticable to form a Commission
to inquire into the advisability, or otherwise,
ot local defence. Witnesses would have had
be summoned from Asia. In the first
place they might have refused to come; in
the second they would probably have lied
it they had come. Joseph Cook and W E
and were then anti-defenceites)
, ° NSLOW > M.L.A., and the
wmdd 1 Who are ! a hti-defenceites still)
would have appeared and uttered wild words
o warning, and melancholy prophecies in
regard to the imminent bursting of the
mpire Others would have insisted on
lkeWl ,f e- All would have been incon-
sequence and vague, menacing clamor, mean-
ng nothing in particular and leading abso-
J “owhere. Foreseeing this, the Govern-
v da y_ took its nerve or courage
u both hands and declared gallantly for Aus-
tralian defence, both by land and by sea,
without inquiry of any sort, and at the
earliest possible moment. It was promptly
ung out of office. But the move was a
sound one, even from the party standpoint.
Pleased and astonished at the Fisiiek
Government s unusual conduct, the electors
gave it a majority in both Houses. And so
Australian defence was born.
* •* * *
Australia needs to be defended in many
other directions, but what with the party
system (which renders politicians chary of
doing anything that may alienate a vote
or two) and what with the Royal Commis-
S L°-? i . S ?u tem ( which enables the politician to
shift the reproach of overt action on to a
peimanent official and so keep friendly with
all sides, more or less) its prospects of
achieving what it requires are poor. Nothing
could be more definite than the tariff man-
dates which have been delivered to the Aus-
tralian Parliament at election after election
of late years. The feeling of the country on
the Frotectiomst issue is so unmistakable
that the E reetrade movement has fallen
dead everywhere. Its only articulate sup-
porters in the whole of this vast continent
are A. G. Huie, of Sydney, and a band of
followers who claim to number 11, but who
are gravely suspected of amounting to two
or at most four. Freetrade is never men-
tioned now during a Federal or other elec-
tion—not • eve ; n * n those Sydney suburbs
which claimed to regard it as “a doctrine
worth living and dying for,” 10 years ago.
In brief, the country is Protectionist to the
backbone. It is reasonable to assume that
it it wants Protection at all it wants effective
Protection. The other sort is merely a
nuisance, like spurious coin, or a half-caste
servant, or a policeman with weak nerves, or
an incompetent though willing liar. The
sort of bastard Protection with which Aus-
tralia is afflicted at the present time does
little service to the manufactures of the
Commonwealth, and hence it is a rotten
immigration agent; and it gives the local im-
porters an excuse to bump up the price of
their wares, and at the same time curse the
T abor party for the rise in the cost of living.
Yet the late Fisher Government was afraid
to reform it. and the Cook Administration
isn’t game. The primrose path of a Com-
mission inquiry has been taken instead.
The palpable is being earnestly threshed out
and the perfectly obvious is being inquired
into at tremendous length in every capital
city. Meanwhile Australian industries are
remaining stationary or bursting, while Ger-
man. Japanese and other overseas concerns
are booming furiously. If the defence of
this country’s commerce was only under-
taken by legislators to-day in the snirit that
the defence of its shores was half a dozen
years ago, the tariff would be re-cast with
expedition. The good deed isn’t done,
chiefly because a few importers are bound
to be annoyed when it is. and meanwhile
there is the Interstate Commission, which
has neither votes to lose nor office t 0 be
kicked out of, ready to take all the obloquy
that is going.
Wherever the seeing eye roves there may
be observed Royal Commissions hard at
work, inquiring into the insoluble and hang-
ing up the urgent. In N. S. Wales at the
present moment a Commission is inquiring,
at Broken Hill, into the problem of why
miners strike, or something similar. As
aeon as it has found out it will proceed to
the Maitland district and discover the reason
why the coal-getter yearns for a full night’s
r«e+\ unbroken bv the claims of toil. A
N.S.W. Commission is proposed to regolve
the inner significance of a land agenev case,
and another to find out whether a Sydney
fishmonger was or was not assaulted by two
policemen. In 3911 an expensive Decen-
tralisation Commission sat. inquired, and
issued a report on the subject of N S.W.’s
starved coastal harbors . and kindred mat-
ters. No notice, worth mentioning, has heen
taken of its recommendations. A Tote
Commission sat, drew its sqTnr.'ocs with
punctuality, and went out of existence to
the accompaniment of a smell, suggestive
of something long dead. A Beef Trust
Commission has begun to sit in Melbourne.
One of its aims is to discover if the
Armouks and the Swifts, who are lavishing
money in Queensland, are the same
Armours and Swifts who lavished money
in America, and ultimately incorporated,
and made many more millions than they
had originally spent, out of the cattle-
ranchers and the consumers of their native
land. Also this Commission is investigating
as to whether the Beef Trust in Queensland!
is the same Beef Trust as they have in the
U.S. ; and if so, whether its intentions, as
regards Australia, are benevolent or other-
wise. Months and months will elapse, and
at the end thereof the Commission will
arrive at some sort of conclusion which will
have no effect at all upon the Common-
wealth’s Anti-Trust legislation. The Com-
mission habit is logically indefensihle. It
is equivalent, in many cases (so far, for
example, as tariff reform and Trust legisla-
tion are concerned), to considering, at por-
tentous length, the idea of arresting a
criminal who has been seen murdering
several inoffensive citizens. It is ruinously
expensive; and it rarely effects anything
whatever. Putting aside those who earn
fees and sundries in connection with them,
Commissions are of practical use to no one
but party politicians in search of a plausible
way out of their obligations. And if there
is one member of the community who merits
no encouragement it is surely this class of
legislator.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Agent and Politician.
A piece of business that left a dark-brown
taste in the mouth was viewed at long range
by the Chief Justice and a jury in Sydney a
few days ago. An ex-member and
a member of the Assembly, Jones and
Osborne, who, it appears, have hung
out an agent’s signboard, sued one
Wilkin son to recover £2OO, balance of com-
mission owing. A while back the owner of
Boorabil station, away out from Wyalong,
wanted to sell the property. Wilkinson had
the sale in hand, and reckoned that the
Government was the best buyer in the market.
But instead of going only to the Closer Set-
tlement Advisory Board, and trusting that
the business, if good enough, would go
through that proper channel, he whistled up
his two brother commission agents, who hap-
pened then to be both members of Parlia-
ment and supporters of the Holman Gov-
ernment. At first he offered them £lOO for
their help, but as £lOO didn’t generate suffi-
cient steaimpressure to push the deal
through quickly, Wilkinson ran up his
offer to £250, and gave them £5O to go on
with. They admittedly did something for
the money: amongst other things, one of
them went up to Moss Vale, where an Execu-
tive meeting was being held, and breathed
into Holman’s ear.' And when the thing
came before the Assembly, on the Advisory
Board’s recommendation, the two members,
who were also agents, voted in favor of pur-
chase by the Government. The Chief Jus-
tice said he didn’t know enough about the
circumstances to say that it was an illegal
contract which couldn’t be enforced, so he
threw the matter to the jury, and the jury
gave a verdict for the full amount. Pre-
sumably Jones and Osborne are satisfied
that they did nothing that members of Par-
liament shouldn’t do. That seems quite
clear from the fact that they brought the
business into court. But, fortunately,
Jones and Osborne are not the final arbi-
ters in such matters. There can be no
doubt whatever that Wilkinson offered his
£250 to these men because they had, or he
believed they had, a political pull. They
were “to bring what pressure they could on
the Government.” There fire, roughly,
28,411 other agents in Sydney, of whom
(say) 26,015 are better known than Jones
and Osborne, or Osborne and Jones, and
the only visible reason why Wilkinson
went to Osborne and Jones, or Jones and
Osborne, is that the others can’t so conveni-
ently breathe into Holman’s ear, and
haven’t got votes in the Assembly. These
two members would most likely have given
their votes for the purchase of the estate if,
in their business capacity, they hadn’t
been promised £250; on the other hand, if
it can be said that some members will get
£250 if a land deal goes through, there may
some day (in a very different sort of
Assembly, of course) be members who will
make that the price of their vote. And
knowing then that £250 “commissions” have
been scattered about in this manner, land-
owners who might otherwise put their
estates under offer to the Government will
draw back from a business in which, rightly
or wrongly, they will suspect that there is
too much palm-greasing to be done to be
profitable. An even more deplorable effect
is the bloating of the price paid for land
actually secured for closer settlement. One
after another complaints fall in that men
who have acquired blocks of resumed closer-
settlement land are hard pressed on account
of the excessive prices they have under-
taken to pay, and it is well understood that
the Stale will have to come to their rescue
sooner or later. The simple reason why
they have to pay so much is that the State
has been bled for too high a price in the
first place: and the circumstance that two
members of Parliament, who happen also to
be agents, got £250 for helping to put one deal
through supplies one of the reasons for the
excessive bleeding. For nothing is much
surer than that, in the last resort, the owner
doesn’t pay these —we must call them com-
missions. The State nays them—the same
Sit ate, by the way, which paid Jones and
Osborne a very fair salary for looking after
its interests. And the State has a right to
expect that the men who take that pay will
not take more pay from people whose "inter-
est is that of the seller, while the State’s
interest is that of the buyer in the same
transaction.
Myopia in the Pastoral Industry.
The Australian pastoralist has extended
the glad hand to the U.S. Beef Trust.
Hitherto his attitude has been that whoever
else suffers, whether in the United King-
dom or in the Commonwealth, he must bene-
fit. A member of the Sydney firm of Birt


arid Co. recently put into words, before the
Brisbane Abattoirs Commission, what the
average station-holder thinks in this connec-
tion. Said this witness :
The operations of the American company in Queens-
land must mean more competition and higher prices
to pastoralists. He did not fear the competition of
the Americans. He thought the majority of pastoral-
ists welcomed Americans opening here because it
meant more competition and better prices for their
stock.
The local pastoralict was delighted with
that pronouncement. It expressed in terse,
clear language his gladdest dreams. He
pointed, it out complacently as the unbiased
view of an expert witness. Some days
passed and another witness, also an expert,
appeared before the Meat Trust Commissiori
which is sitting in Melbourne. The follow-
ing is from a daily paper report of the pro-
ceedings :—•
Do you know whether Armour’s have any repre-
sentative here?—Their company is registered in
Queensland. In New South Wales Birt and Co. repre-
sent them.
Can you form any opinion as to the effect of the
entrance of American firms as competitors into the
Australian market?—lf the same thing happens as
happened in America it will be bad for Australia.
They got hold of the distributing end there, and it
simply killed the trade.
He added that in the last few months shipments
of Australian meat to America had been affected
owing to the fact that on their arrival market prices
were lowered deliberately.
The most interesting feature of the
evidence is the light which it casts
on the Trust’s immemorial methods
in regard to pastoralists. Under the
cheerful delusion that because they are
being treated well to-day they will neces-
sarily be treated equally well to-morrow, the
local station-owners are doing their" best
to hand over the control of the Australian
meat trade to the U.S. Beef Trust. Their
idea is that even if the Trust gets control
of Smithfield markets (which is to say, of
the. British meat trade), as it has already
done in the case of the U.S. meat business,
these centres will still be obliged to take
Australian meat at Australian prices. No
more fatuous notion could be conceived.
If a big shipment of Australian meat, were
to start for Chicago at the present moment
the Beef Trust would know well how to
arrange that it should be dirt cheap on its
arrival. The favorite method is for the
Trust, which is, of course, a vast stock-
owner as well as a stock-buyer, to arrange
for a glut of cattle at the right time from
its point of view. The bottom automatically
falls through the market. Meat becomes dirt
cheap for the moment. The Trust cans
what it can’t retail, keeps the price up to
the old level as regards the consumer ; and
leaves the pastoralist cursing feebly on his
distant plains. When the London market is
collared—as every observer, from G. 11.
Reid to recent witnesses before the Mel-
bourne Commission agree that it must be,
once Australia yields—the same procedure
will,' be’ followed in England. The local
pastoralist will be in a horrible position in
those- circumstances. The extent of his
profits.will be measured by the charity of
the .Beef. Trust. In other words, they will
be just about big enough to keep him from
industrial suicide. •
+ ,
New Town-planning and Old Traditions.
Deab Bulletin, —Having just read in a
Sydney daily the two-billionth report of the
N.S.W. Town-Planning Association —which
1 fancy, is some relation of the Million’s
Club—l rise to say that I am tired. An
unspeakable exhaustion has come upon me.
What is the use of a Town-Planning Associa-
tion which makes no serious effort to plan
any towns V Of course, places like Danda-
loo may rise casually by the wayside'; and
Wonthaggi may come and dwell awhile and
then pass; and some opal-gouger may
make a city of two houses which lasts as long
as Jonah’s gourd and then does an obscure
perish; but these things do not constitute
town-planning. The only way you can town-
plan is to plan towns, and the way to do
that is to clamor to the Government in and
out of season that it will give the Associa-
tion scope for its energies. It has no scope
at Canberra, for a mild imported man
has secured that job, and a crowd of
foreign architects are to judge the
designs for the Canberra Parliament
House. And besides, even apart from
the question of the imported man, when
there is only one town being planned in
Australia, and that plaice . has no harbor,
no coal, not very much water and no enthusi-
asm; it doesn’t amount to much. My griev-
ance against the Town-Planning Association
is that it always hangs around Sydney,
which can no longer be planned—only
patched—unless some heroic person pulls it
down and starts a complete rebuilding pro-
gramme, and that heroic person isn’t in sight.
New South Wales possesses certain deserted
deep-water harbors, the land around which
could be resumed at not much more than the
value it had in Captain Cook’s day. And
at these places, if a few miles of railway
were built and sundry wharves were
constructed, great things might' be done.
Cities might be raised of which the State
could be ground landlord for all time. Ad-
jacent .districts, which are now fading, or
even perishing, because the length of the
railway jorUney to Sydney makes the wheat
unprofitable and the bullock unremunerative,
might be made to boom again. - The slump
in the State’s stock of sheep, and cattle and
pigs might be arrested as a natural conse-
quence, and this sudden affluence would add
to the financial possibilities of the new cities.
Then there would be money to burn, and
virgin soil to work upon, and a great new
field for enterprise ahead. Instead-of linger-
ing to little purpose about Balmain and
Paddington and such-like places the Town-
Planners might get to actual work. To put
the matter shortly, the Association should be
first and foremost and all the time, a Decen-
tralisation League. That is its only chance
to get work. Otherwise it must be a mere
theory in Surry Hills;. a myth hanging about
Waterloo; a vision in Redfern; an empty
ambition in the by-ways of the Glebe; a
hollow void in Five. Dock ; and a dream in
and around Botany and North Botany and
St. Peters, not wholly forgetting Kogarah.
It is certain that there ought to be a great
reconstruction of Sydney—possibly under the
auspices of the Town-Planning Association.
But unless there arise two or three other big
coastal cities—built on perfect principles by
the Town-Planning Association so that they
will require no reconstruction —to help to
bear the heat and burden of the bill, it is
difficult to see how the money can be found.
When a State possesses one overwhelming
and badly-thrown-together city, it is about as
difficult for it to rebuild itself as for a man
to lift himself by the rear buttons of his
own pants. Even in the time which the
Town-Planning Association devotes to talk-
ing about the repair of one narrow thorough-
fare the policy which drags much more than
half the new population of the State
to the little area controlled by the
two-score municipalities of Sydney has
made half a dozen narrow thorough-
fares which will presently want repair. In
many times and many countries there have
been town-planners, including Cain, who
built the city called Enoch; and Alexander,
who built Alexandria; and Nebuchad-
nezzar, who built a new Babylon; and some
casual Pharaoh, who built Memphis. But
they didn’t hang round old mouldy cities,
town-planning. They got to new places and
waded in.—Yours etc., Henry Horse-
collar.
Sexes and Exes.
“O.K” writes :
The political party demand lor equality of the
sexes among. Victorian State-school teachers has been
blown out by Public Service Commissioner Morri-
son, whose recent report on the question of “equal
pay for equal work” was not prepared from local
information only. Morrison consulted also the Director
of Education and other educational experts in
N.S.W., and his inquiries all round have convinced
him that in school-teaching work there is no equality
of the sexes. The men as a rule are more efficient
State servants than the women, and are not pro-
portionately better paid. It could be reasonably
contended that they are proportionately underpaid.
The men have the higher standard of scholarship;
and are charged with more important scholastic
duties on that account. Women teachers, with one
solitary exception, are not placed in charge of
schools higher than the fifth class. Positions of
heavy responsibility carry with them the added
duties of organisation and administration, the control
of large bodies of men teachers and the disciplining
of boys. Women in general are not satisfactory
organisers, administrators and disciplinarians.
Women are unfitted to direct boys in school games.
Of the 2120 schools in Victoria there are 1630 in
which there is no female assistant, and where a
male teacher would be required to teach every
grade.
The cost of training teachers is very heavy, but
if the trained teachers remain in the service of the
State such expenditure is justified. The loss of
young female teachers is mucji greater proportionately
than the Joss of young male ditto. Of 331 teachers
who left the service last year 21 per cent, were
men and 49 per cent, were women under the age of
SO. The average sick leave for each male teacher
last year was 10 days, whereas the average woman
was sicker. Her stay away, from work amounted to
12.8 days. She gives less grains and less time to
the teaching' iob than the man does, yet her cham-
pions claim that the sexes do equal work and should
have equal pay. A few women teachers are sent
to remote districts, but as a rule they don’t want
a higher position if it is out of town. Moreover,
there are 260 school districts to which they couldn’t
be sent on account of the conditions of living—in-
equality of the sexes as regards the roughest hard-
ships of life being claimed by women and admitted
by the brutal men who make the laws. Else why
shouldn’t women take their fair proportion of those
260 uncivilised districts?
It was found that if the literary qualifications for
promotion required from man teachers were exacted also
from women it would not be, possible to fill the .pro-
motion lists for women. So the literary qualifications
for, women teachers were lowered, to permit of their
being promoted. All along the, lines of, comparison
the women are found to have qualifications inferior
to the men,
True, they are poorly paid. In Victoria the salaries
of fifth-class teachers range from £l4O to £l6O,
whereas in N.S.W. the nay for the same class is
£192 to £204. But they are not comparatively
underpaid. The allegation that women do equal
work with men in the Education Department of the
State service is blown out. Commissioner Morri-
son blew it out with unnecessary gusto, perhaps.
lie scouted the contention that women in other pro-
fessions or trades are not allowed to accept lower
payment than men. He found, he said that women
were paid a less rate than men, and, as for Justice
Higgins’s judgment that men and omen fruit pickers
should be placed on a wages equality, Mr. Morrison
reckons that employers will inevitably prefer men
for fruit picking, because they are superior to women.
Also he (Morrison) declined to take a judge’s deter-
mination on the mechanical process of fruit picking
as being applicable to the case of educated school
teachers. His view of the matter is the view of all
intelligent men, save a few contentious, faddical
sentimentalists and vote-seeking politicians, and of
the vast majority of women who have no financial
interest in pushing the 6ex-equality claim.
That the average woman is as good as the average
bloke in any sphere of work outside of the domestic
circle, the theatre or the concert-hall is a mere
fiction of the suffragettish mind. In the spheres
aforementioned she is apt to get unequal pay on
account of her sexual qualification. Melba has for
years been the best-paid person in her profession. The
operas were written, staged and produced by men,
the orchestral music was supplied by men, and for
her one part in the entertainment a woman got the
boss salary. The same remark applies to Sarah
Bernhardt on the dramatic stage. Many a gaudy
Sassiety wife, who shirks the responsibility of child-
bearing, gets much better pay for her domestic work
than the husband gets from the income he earns or
inherits. In many cases more than half of his
income goes to support the missus in finery and
frivolity, and he is making a fuss of her all the
time. But no woman who is in a position to spend
hundreds and thousands a year on a worthless hus-
band ever continues to make a fuss of him. One
must admit, of course, that in domestic life many
women are as good as their men, or better, and are
comparatively.underpaid, but it may be fairly argued
that, from the duchess in her husband’s castle down to
Sally in the alley, the law of the inequality of
sexes works in favor of the weaker. Anyhow, the
women school-teachers in Victoria are not unfairly
treated in comparison with the men. And when
they leave the service to get married, or to spinster
on a pension, they are not likely to have more to
complain of, on the average, than the ex-schoolmaster.
♦
The Honest Ass.
Last week’s London files reported a dis-
tracted assault by Rudyard Kipling on the
non-Nationalist leaders of the Irish Home
Rule movement. In the course of a sort
of oratorical fit of hysterics, he compared
Asquith, Grey, Mobley, Bihrell and such-
like ponderously respectable citizens, to a
murderer whom he knew in India; also to
“a firm of fraudulent solicitors.” He argued
that they were in the position of one who,
having got possession of a power of attorney
by false pretences, was using it to rob his
victim. And, finally, after references to the
alleged financial straits of the members of
the Asquith Cabinet, and to the bribery
and corruption to which their insolvent con-
dition had driven them, he swallowed a
glass of water and remarked: “You have to
wash your mouth for this filth.” There is
nothing novel about extravagant imbecilities
of this sort. They are the stock argu-
ments of the well-meaning burgher who
takes seriously all the guff which his party
leaders ladle out for his benefit. When
the anti-Socialist campaign began in Aus-
tralia there were thousands who believed
that J. C. Watson was an Anarchist.
Similarly, when the Defence movement got
well under way, the citizen whose chief men-
tal prop or support is his daily paper, held,
with W. E. Johnson and Bruce Smith,
that the real object of the traitorous hounds
who were machinating for an Australian
navy was to make an uncalled-for, not to
say demented, attack upon Britain. But
the difference between the credulous news-
paper-student, who explodes in a suburban
tram or train, and Kipling lies in the fact
that the one is obscure, while the other,
inasmuch as he is the Empire’s Un-laurelled
Poet of Jingoism, is more or less
eminent. Kipling is that rare thing in
modern politics—a distinguished man who
believes in his party’s electioneering gags.
The party .leaders approve of the fantastic
rot which Kipling dealt in last month
when it is delivered by a village mayor or
someone of that standing. The outbreak
does not suffer, in such a case, from that
publicity which invites criticism. The party
is not made to appear ludicrous in the eyes
of the discerning. The more wooden-headed
electors are impressed. But when a' Kip-
ling talks at large the position becomes
awkward. Being, as it were, the barndoor
fowl of Imperial sentiment, he is heard
everywhere. And none are more embar-
rassed than those whom he would pour forth
gallons of ink to serve. Unionist leaders
like Balfour and Bonar Law know per-
fectly well that there is no analogy between
the leaders of British Liberalism and mur-
derers or swindling attorneys and so on.
In private life many Unionists and
Home Rulers are intimate friends;
Winston Churchill and F. E. Smith,
for example, spend most of their holi-
days together. Party politicians have
to denounce and slander their political
opponents, in a public way, because that is
an essential feature of the party game. But
they don’t mean it, and in their hearts most
of them would be deeply grieved if they
thought that anyone who really mat-
tered- took their attacks seriously. The
effect of such an outburst as Kip-
ling’s is to reduce to complete absurdity
one of the foundations of the party system.
His frenzied remarks, and his bellow-
dramatic mouth-washings, were idiotic and
uncalled for, but not much more so than
those which have been made in the past by
his parliamentary idols. The shocking feature
of them was their transparent earnestness.
It is evident that the libels and slanders
which are inseparable from the party govern-
ment system must be either disingenuous, in
which case they are ridiculous, or seriously
meant, in which event they are scandalous
and certain in time to lead to bloodshed. A
sane method of government would not put
up with the continued existence of either of
them.
♦
Many Inventions.
Dear Bulletin, —A proposal which came
to light on a recent day concerns the knock-
ing of another half-day off the ironworkers’
week, thus making it a five-day affair. This
looks rather like starting the business at the
wrong end, for no one has mentioned any
unexpected improvements in the mode of pro-
duction, so that the five-day week may be
relied upon to yield at least as big a crop of
fenders and rails and locomotives as did the
51-day week, and even that crop was poor
enough, Heaven knows. At present the
situation may be compressed or boiled down
in this fashion :
(1) The local supply of iron goods is further
behind the demand than it has ever been within the
memory of anybody now living.
(2) The country’s dependence on foreign iron,
made by comparatively cheap labor which doesn’t
enjoy any five-hour day, and brought here by foreign
ships, is greater than it ever was before.
(3) There being no corresponding increases in local
production of other goods, and exports of other goods,
to pay for all this imported iron, a larger proportion
of imports than ever before are being paid for out of
foreign loans. In other words, the five-months-old
infant is being left to pay for the locomotive which
his loafing or incapable father didn’t make in his
five-day week.
(4) When the old man can no longer pawn the
baby at the present glorious rate, he will have to
make a heap more ironware or else do without.
(5) When, one day or another, the Ma country
loses command of the sea, and we fail to secure
command, and commerce is interrupted, this thinly-
peopled continent —thinly-peopled partly for the
reason that it prefers to bring in cheap labor or scab
goods bought on tick rather than import artisans and
turn them into good unionists —will have to throw
bricks and trees at its er.emy for want of better
(6) This will be bad for the baby—but, then, who
cares for the baby ?
An inference which may possibly arise here
is that the Trades Hall crowd has neglected
one great branch of its vocation. If half
the money which is spent on strikes was
spent on encouraging and acquiring new in-
ventions and appliances, so that a toiler with
his five-day week could do as much as he
used to do in 10 days, it might get better
wages and better conditions for its. sup-
porters, and at the same time acquire a
much bigger grip on the country’s industry
than it is likely to get by 12 strikes and 24
new loans. Also, it might do more for the
general prosperity of the nation than it can
do by 30 strikes and 48 loans. There is no
reason why the ownership of new labor-
saving devices should be the perquisite of
the men who wear plug hats, when the
royalties and profits of them might as well
go to associations of the men who wear any
old kind of hat. Again, if the other half of
the money which is spent on strikes were de-
voted to the steady acquisition of shares in
well-paying financial enterprises—banks and
the like —associated Labor might get. a bigger
hold on the financial enterprise of the country
than if it hung up the work at Cockatoo
Dock by a multitude of industrial disputes,
and delivered many yards of speeches. To
put the matter shortly, it should be the aim
of associated Labor to make new enterprise
and to profit by it, also to buy up old
enterprise and profit by it, rather than to
hang up enterprise and sell its white offspring
to extraneous pawnbrokers for a mess of pot-
tage nr a pot of beer. It should be a great
deal more' constructive and a great deal less
eloquent and remonstrative. It should
make capably Fat Men work for it
at managing big undertakings, instead
of making spasmodic efforts to start
small undertakings, and putting ama-
teurs of its own party in charge. It should
be a great deal more subterranean than it is.
Above all. it should remember that a pint pot
can only hold a pint, and that if a quart is
wanted it is necessary to get a bigger vessel—
which is another way of saying that a feeble
industry, which is oppressed by an inefficient
tariff and a rush of cheap colored
or slave or “scab” competition, can’t
be resurrected by increasing local ex-
penses, and leaving the old tariff in the old
place, and giving cheap foreign competition
a bigger show than ever. A constructive in-
dustrial and finance department, run by a
capable committee of Jesuits, who are folk
that say little, and don’t say it very loud,
might even be better business than a Labor
daily. A very big and costly daily may
really do little more than give the show
away.—Yours discursively, Solomon Mala-
prop.
—■ -♦
The Curse of Votes.
The Sydney Telegraph published last week
what was represented to be the final instal-
ment of the policy of the N.S.W. Minister
for Public Health. In all civility, it may be
said that there is political support in every
inch of it. It is designed to pan out ID votes
to the oz., if not more. Rest homes for moth-
ers ; convalescent homes for men; free den-
tistry ; the Fisher maternity bonus scheme
beaten to a frazzle ; district hospitals every-
where ; a Consumption Bill of a most popu-
lar nature —by these and other measures the
Government proposes to help the community,
to make no mention of itself. But at one
thing it draws the line. It doesn’t mind how
much borrowed money it blews on costly
sweets for its supporters; but at supplying
them with bitter, though salutary and inex-
pensive, medicine it draws the line. The
reason is the old, sordid one of votes. Under
the Party System an Administration never
gives the country what it needs. The best
that the office-loving legislator can be ex-
pected to do is to supply those on whom he
depends for place and power with what they
want. "The average thoughtless elector wants
as much free medical treatment as he tan
get, and he is likely to whoop loudly for the
man who supplies him with the same, and
afterwards, in all likelihood, to vote for him
and his party. But what he needs more than
anything of the sort may be an altogether
different affair. A prime requirement is
legislation, not merely for the cure, but for
the prevention, of venereal disease. Reform,
on these lines, is more essential to the general
health of the community than any amount of
free dentistry, or than a scheme which would
render convalescent homes as general as pubs,
and maternity allowances as common as holi-
day inebriates. The Government sheers off it
persistently, not because it fails to appreciate
the urgency of such a measure, but because it
foresees all too clearly the probable tempo-
rary unpopularity of it. The N. S. Wales
Minister for Health has introduced a number
of what may be called “treatment reforms”
in regard to venereal complaints. Patients
may see doctors in future at the hospitals in
the evening, which means that doctors are to
work longer hours than any navvy would
tolerate. This idea is designed to serve a
double purpose. It will enable working people
to be treated without, as heretofore, sacrific-
ing a half-day’s toil (though the doctor does
a day-and-a-half’s toil), and it will minimise
publicity.' It is expected that many people
—more especially women —will go to: be
treated for venereal diseases by night, who
would be ashamed to do so in the light of day.
All treatment will be free. This will
tend to wean the indigent from the
devastating services of the quack. Altogether,
the reforms are admirable so far as they go
; —and calculated, as aforementioned, to add
vastly to the mana of the Government. It is
an inevitable outcome of our rotten Party
Ben Dirtoof Explains how His Ship
Surrendered.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No sooner has one labor difficulty at the dockyard
been settled than another crops up. Yesterday a
number of pattern-makers “ceased work” on the
ground that a section of the work which was their
special privilege had been appropriated by the joiners
with the sanction of the general manager.
Mr. King-Salter explained last night that the
wooden “lagging” (covering) on the Gayundah’s
steam pipes, which had been put on by the joiners,
was being removed bv them when this fact was dis-
covered by the pattern-makers, who, claiming that
they were entitled to the work, immediately downed
tools without consulting him.
—Chronicles of Cockatoo Dock, Sydney.
We wos rushin’ inter action on the crooser
Nimmitabel,
Every bloke wos at ’is stashun, an’ we’d
give ther foeman ’Ell!
v - . All ’er guns'was pointed ready,
W’en a gunner ’-oilers: “Steady!
The award ses we’re to fire ’em —not to load
ther guns, as well!”
Strike me pink! There wos a picnic.
’Course we stopped an’ stood away;
’E wos right, that bloomin’ gunner, so ’e ’ad
to ’ave ’is say.
So we goes up to ther Captin,
’Oo in plans was sorter wrapt in,
An’ we tells ’im ther posishun in the middle
of ther bay !
But ’is langwidge wos tremenjous w’en ’e
found we’d left our posts—
W’y, ■ ’e ' called on Gawd to strike us into
speechless, spineless ghosts!
But the gunner ’ad ’im thinkin’!
’E pulled out ther log like winkin’,
An’ ’e read the clause applyin’ w’ile we’re
fightin’ off our coasts.
It was printed plain an’ easy, so as all could
read the clause,
That the Naval Gunners’ Union must not
load for any cause;
The Shell-’Oisters ’ad to load ’em —
Our job was to explode'em —
An’ we gives that plucky gunner rounds of
genooine applause!
Well, ther Old Man wants ter argue, an’ ’e
offers extra ppy,
But we’re loyal td ther Union, so, in course,
we walks away;
An’ we couldn’t fight the crooser,
So we simply 'ad to lose ’er,
’Cos there wasn’t a Shell-’Oister on the
bloomin’ boat that day !
Yes, a shameful oversight, Sir, an’ I grant
yer ain’t far wrong
W’en yer say that ain’t the way to shove
this continent along !
But we ’ad the right intenshun,
An’ they dare not clip our penshun,
’Cos w’y? ’Cos askin’ us to scab is cornin’
,it too strong!”
N.S.W.
R. McGEDDON.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA.
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From 11/6 Day;
£3 I Os. Week.
ORGAN-TONED CONCERTINAS IN
HANDSOME BOXES.
No. 4. Rosewood Style Tops, 10 Ger-
man Silver Keys, 8-fold Bellows, post
free 10/G
No. 5. Rosewood Style Tops, with
Trumpet Holes. lO 'Bone Keys, 8-fold
Bellows, with Clasp, post free, 15/.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Ask your storekeeper for “Dudley” Instruments
or write direct to—
ft.P. SYKES,
272 LIT. COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
FRUIT LAXATIVE TOR MAMMA, DAO,
BABV, “CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.’’
Better than calomel, oil or pills to clean
and regulate liver, bowels and
stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
.so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night and in the morn-
ing all the foul, constipated waste, sour bile
and fermenting, food delayed in the bowels
gently moves out of the system. When you
awaken all headache, indigestion, sourness,
foul taste, bad breath, fever and dizziness
are gone; your stomach is sweet, liver and
bowels clean, and you feel grand.
California Syrup of Figs ’ is a family
laxative. Everyone from grandpa to baby
can safely take it, and no one is ever disap-
pointed in its pleasant action. Millions of
mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, feverish children. Ask your
?^ ei nist for a bottle of “California Syrup of
higs,” which has directions for babies, chil-
dren of all ages, and for grown-ups plainly
on the bottle. Remember there are counter-
feits sold here, so look and see that your
bottle bears the name of “California Fig
Syrup Company.” Hand back with’ contempt
any other fig syrup. “California Syrup of
h lgs . is sold by all leading chemists 1/] 1
and 1/9. '
System that reform in this respect should
stop short at the precise point where the
popularity of the Government is menaced.
Compulsory notification is the keystone of
the arch of venereal reform. These dreadful
diseases can be cured, more or less, in indivi-
dual cases, without it, but they can never be
exterminated. The plague would be in Syd-
ney still if acres of valuable buildings hadn’t
been torn down and their sites disinfected.
The small-pox will continue until vaccination
is made compulsory. And, similarly, venereal
diseases must flourish hideously, and fill mad-
houses, and make the lives of innocent chil-
dren so many long tragedies, till a Govern-
ment has the courage to put them on the
same basis, as regards notifiability, as diph-
theria and typhoid fever. It appears that no
Government ever will display that courage
under our existing Parliamentary system,
the. appalling reason being that venereal com-
plaints are too common. The Holman Ad-
ministration, like all its predecessors, dreads
the hostility of the army of the diseased. The
community is to remain polluted as a tribute
to Votes.
Elective Ministries.
The Liberal controversialist who is on the
outside edge of things, the uninformed en-
thusiast who blithers in bars and the like,
has a horrible row to hoe these times. He
never knows when some bulwark of his creed
isn’t going to fall crashing about his ears
and show him up before his friends as a
blighted idiot. Only the other day the
caucus system of the Labor party was de-
nounced by the generality of Liberalism as
the Devil. Sturdy Liberals said that they
didn’t so much mind the Labor policy, but
they couldn’t stand the Caucus —as if it was
an emetic or a cannibal, or something similar.
Liberalism has now adopted the Caucus, and
so the above gag is heard no .more in those
places where the grossly-overcrowded evening
tram crashes to its bourne. Last week another
Prop fell, and many a suburban expert on
the subject of the villainy and imbecility of
Socialism will feel the sorer in consequence.
According to the Melbourne correspondent of
the Sydney Telegraph (29/6/’l4) :
There is a growing opinion in the Ministerial ranks
that the Liberal Ministers, whether on the formation
of an Administration or otherwise, should be chosen
by ballot of the party meeting in caucus. Some
members go so far as to urge that the Ministers,
from the Prime Minister downwards, should be re-
chosen after each dissolution—that is to say, that
after a successful general election the party shall meet
as the Labor party assembles in similar circum-
stances, and take a direct vote as to who shall be
the party’s Ministers in the two Houses for the cur-
rency of the ensuing Parliament.
The Labor party undertook this reform orig-
inally amidst a storm of Liberal derision.
The Socialists, as they were then known,
vvere accused of impudently seeking to teach
their betters, the founders of the party sys-
tem, the way to govern. It tvas con-
tended that for Ministers to be chosen by
any but the Premier was unconstitutional.
Also, it was debasing to the Premier, who
was thereby transformed into a Puppet, not
to say a Thing. The logical, ultimate out-
come of Elective Ministries, “from the Prime
Minister downwards,” in the case of both
parties, is a Ministry elected irrespective of
parties from both sides of the House. At
present the bar-room Liberal is in the habit
of emitting the hollow and superior laugh of
scorn when the imminence of this change is
mentioned. He still regards it as he did the
Caucus system last year, and the choosing
of Ministers by party ballot last week. In a
little while his leaders will play him false in
this respect, as they have done so often in
others. But it will not greatly affect the
pathetic ass. He will still be laughing in the
old, hollow, superior manner at some other
predestined reform.
—
A. G. Huie is having a busy time these
days before the Tariff Commission in Syd-
ney- The Commission spends most of its
time .-taking the evidence of manufacturers
who, require more Protection, and of im-
porters who, strictly in the interests of the
public, desire less; but in addition there is
always lluie. If the evidence goes to show
that the local industry has a good hold on
the market, Huie wants the duties removed
because they are unnecessary; and, if an
industry is small and struggling, Huie
wants the duty removed on the general prin-
ciple that a local industry has no right to
be small and struggling—it had better be
dead. Huie reaches the ear of the Commis-
sion because he is secretary of the Free-
trade League. There is a suspicion that he
is also President, two Vice Presidents, and
six Committeemen; and that resolutions
moved by Huie are put by Huie and
carried by lluie. Presumably he gets some
satisfaction out of it; which somehow leads
this paper to reflect what a beautiful goat
make —he would grow sleek and
uproarious on three empty jam-tins and a
kerbstone.
The “much-travelled” R. S. Smythe—row over 80—
is spending his evening in a home full of ease H
Bal'vyn, near Melbourne, surrounded hv mementoes
trafia nUmcrous stars ' vhom ho introduced to Aus-
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “Gipsy Love.”
r\‘i K „'; 1 ' 11 ‘ “Brought to Ruin.”
•n UEATKE “Master of Angerstroom.”
vY, Mi-1 nto>h s Vaudeville Co.
National Theatre .... Fuller-Brennau Vaudeville.
'• VEEU)I Snencer’s Pictures.
West’s Pictures.
Picture Block liieatres Moving Pictures.
Glaciariuii Ice-Skating.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her \la j estv’s “ The Gondoliers.”
P,. , S Leroy Talma & Bosco.
not al. . “Officer 666.”
s “Aladdin.”
aiTnrmnn.. Mclutosli’s Vaudeville Co.
Wrsj’s pf Paul Bufault (July S).
l Ai ' ACE West s Pictures.
Majesuo spencer's Pictures.
h, 4l Skating.
Fuller-Breunan Vaudeville.
♦
I lie contrivin’, managin’ lassie -who runs
the family and serves the haggis with an
o' e 1?, • , and a clean apron is the modern
Scottish comedy heroine. She is bound to be
in the next Scottish grand opera and have
s ining soprano duets with the meenister
about putting saxpence in the plate and the
lngh price of sheep’s heads. Then Carmen
and Madame Butterfly and Mimi and Isolde
a.na their various lovesick gentlemen friends
, w , stampede into the operatic back row and
TA°n °?u in ™ ld astonishment. Bunty, who
1 ulls the Strings at Sydney Royal, is some
relation to Mrs. John Shaud, of J. M.
Barnes What Every Woman Knows.”
Bunty, like Mrs. John, by the grace of the
author, manages everyone in sight and makes
it an almost painless operation in the shifty
environment of a Scottish village. The first
act discovers her pre-eminent in the Sabbath-
stricken of Tammas Biggar, a splen-
didly upright old misappropriator of trust
funds, who has been made dishonest by the
dishonesty of a son who never appears in the
play.. He had to make good the son’s
piracies, and to do so dipped into the £320
belonging to Susie Simpson, his terrible old-
maid housekeeper. Susie has almost bull-
dogged him into matrimony when Eelen
JJunlop, the old sweetheart he had deserted
in his youth, turns up on his wedding day
as an old maid of the gracious variety, and
rescues him on the brink. Susie denounces
Tammas in the kirkyard in the second act;
but Bunty comes to the fore like a melodrama
GOING TO KIRK IN “BUNTY PULLS
THE STRINGS," AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Sawbath in Scotland (1860): (A) Elder in
charge of open-air collection. (B) The plate.
(C) Child in Sunday best. (D) Dog going
to church with master. (E) At the top of the
stile. (F) A pork-pie hat. (G) Village
policeman off duty.
hero, and informs Susie that the money is in
the lioose and that she will be paid in full
on the morn’s morn. (Sensation.) And,
after all, Bunty is mei’ely misappropriating
the cash, painfully accumulated by Weelum
Sprunt for their wedding ,day. And Weelum,
who is the nephew and ljeir of Susie, makes
things worse by apologising for his female
relative to the assembled congreegation and
getting himself disinherited. Susie retires
foiled, amidst the applause of all hands, in-
cluding the village policeman. In the third
act, when the situation is cleared up, the
surprise is the discovery of the fact (by
the keen little Bunty, of course) that the
blundering Weelum is the rightful owner by
inheritance of the money that his misappro-
priating aunt has had the use of for years.
Of course, old Tammas Biggar marries his
restored Eelen, and Bunty is left happily
embracing her good-natured mountain of
stupidity. So everything ends happily in a
gratifying state of mild solvency. The
unassuming little moneymaker gains by being
dressed in the dreadful mid-Victorian gar-
ments worn by the British people of 1854.
Not since the late Robert Brough’s produc-
tion of “Trelawny of the Wells” have the
insane trappings of our foremothers been
paraded so effectively. The acting is
smoothly adequate. No one player’s work
stands up like a tower, and there are no
noticeable holes. There is just an impression
completeness and harmony. Miss
xLlla Young, as Bunty, is freshly natural and
seems capable of really doing most of the
things she is credited with.
An entertainment in which the intervals
were more interesting than the acts was
given at the Repertory Theatre, Sydney, on
Monday evening. It was a remarkable one-
man show, since all the three one-act plays
a^so the original music sup-
H-n t0 m. lin gaps ’ were the wol ' k of Alfred
f 1 * "he Lotus Players were responsible
tor the production, and though the staging
and lighting were artistic, and some of the
women satisfactory in their parts, the idio-
syncrasies of the male Lotuses turned what
tne author had conceived as tragedv into
farcical comedy. “Life, the Jest,” had some
sincerity m a conventional situation, though
the characterisation was too vague for cre-
dence. “Oh, the Pity of It” featured the
usual artist, in the usual velvet jacket (the
only artist this scribe knows is Soutar, and
he, being present, assured this scribe that he
doesn t find it essential to wear a velvet
jacket when lie draws his cats that look like
ladies and his ladies who dress like cats),
the model who calls his masterpiece his
mai 1 led-piece, and the wife who loves him
so much that lie hasn’t any time to paint.
Ihe construction of the piece was jumpy and
sudden ; but whatever there was of tragedy
1Q J*- was lost in the audience’s, and the
author s, laughter at the eccentricities of
the male Lotuses. “Wattle Tree Farm,” in
which the demand for action was not so
intense, proved itself to be a delightful little
Australian comedy of the Outback order; and
it had the advantage of an admirable presen-
tation. It is evident that Alfred Hill, if he
confines himself to the simplicities of life,
can write a genuine Australian comedy. The
music comprised this composer’s two beau-
titul string quartettes, founded on ancient
Maori melodies.
Harold Bauer, in musical storm and calm,
is now at the piano in Sydney Town Hall.
He is a greater Hambourg without the bang
°i. that nerve-smashing performer. Bauer
walked into the respect of the local public
as soon as his athletic fingers rippled up and
down the keys at his opening concert. Then
he gripped it with Schumann’s “Carnival ”
and a stately procession of Bach, Beethoven,
Wagner and Liszt. The able-bodied Bauer
has the physical capacity to hit the piano
hard in the right place without any personal
fatigue. This, in itself, is restful to an audi-
ence. We all prefer a strong man pianist to
a shadow who looks as if he ought tn he
carried off the platform on a
stretcher after a Bach concerto.
The subject of this notice had
the minor misfortune (since he
is not in the management busi-
ness) of arriving here after the
triumphant Elman had got
away with last week’s super-:
nuous cash. At Bauer’s first
and second Sydney concerts, for
this reason, enthusiasm thudded
down more heavily than money.
The third recital occurs when
this remark is on the linotype.
The fourth (July 2) ought to
be a good excuse for a raid nn
the bleak municipal hall in George-street.
=.• * * *
Sydney playgoers continue to hold the
world —or, at any rate, a considerable sum
m entrance-money—well lost for “Gipsy
Love.” The J.C.W. press-agent who attends
chiefly to Her Majesty’s owned frankly last
week that the treasury had burst twice, as
a result of financial overflows, and that sev-
eral officials had got cashier’s cramp—a
painful variant of housemaid’s or secretary’s
knee —from raking in the money. It may be
gathered from the above that the new musical
show is doing none too badly.
“The School for Scandal” will close on
Saturday at the Little Theatre, Sydney; and
on Monday a new play. “The Master of
Angerstroom,” by that celebrated author and
dramatist, Anonymous, will take its place.
Anonymous is a writer of long standing, and:
is closely related to that eminent military
man, Casus Belli. '
** * *
The counterfeit “Ready Money,” issued at
Sydney Criterion, is being rapidly with-
drawn. The advertisement says that the
play goes with a bang. It goes off with a
bang. On Saturday “Madame X.,” with
Muriel Starr as the algebraical lady,
promises thrills.
At Sydney Adelphi “No Mother to Guide
Her,” which winds up in such a cheerful
manner as to suggest that it is a good spec,
to drown mothers when they are young, is
paying all expenses this week. On Satur-
day “Brought to Ruin” will be let loose for
a week, to be followed by the imported “Mr
Wu.”
Ada Reeve comes to the dead-end of her
season at Sydney Tivoli to-morrow night;
but a “return” is pretty certain. Farr and
Farland are also in their last nights. Sev-
eral strong-man items, Thornleigh Dodge’s
character studies and a trick-cycling turn
all help to shake up a programme that was
beginning to get about as lively as the Union
Club. Silent-humorist Fields returns on
Monday. There’s one advantage about these
silent humorists. If you don’t like them you
get a chance to go to sleep.
Maud Allan will be introduced to Sydney
on Saturday at the Palace by William Ander-
son. She will appear on six consecutive
nights, and her big dancing fete (for Heaven’s
sake don’t make it feet) will be “The Vision
of Salome.” Maud will be seconded in her
efforts by Leo, Jan and Mischel Cherniavsky,
musicians. The compositor may spell this
name any way he likes. It is beyond human
comprehension. The people who carry it are
akin to the old Babylonian race which had
its visiting card inscribed on a brick.
Ed. Blondell , the Lost Boy, wrestles with an
elusive steak at Sydney National.
Sydney picture stars for this week:—
Crystal Palace: “An Officer and a Gentleman,”
compounded of love, jealousy, £ s. cl and sundries.
Colonial: “The Silent Witness,” wherein a dicta-
phone beats a whole police force and arrests the
criminal—which suggests that dictaphones on street
lamps and pub verandah posts might pay for their
keep.
Spencer’s Lyceum: Until Saturday, “The Lure
of London” ; then “Antony and Cleopatra,” a seven-
reel film recently auctioned in London for £B5OO.
It is understood that Tony gets none of this money
7 which goes to show that there are disadvantages
m being dead.
West’s Olympia: Another Asta Nielsen drama.
** # *
The National Amphitheatre (Sydney) is
still going strong, although at time of writ-
ing the trouble between the orchestra (which
recently skied its instruments) and the man-
agement was threatening to extend in other
directions. Amongst the headliners on the
bill are Clement May (impersonator), the
Itondas trio (cyclists). Blondell and Caine
(sketch artists), Juno Salmo (contortionist),
Boro thy Harris (ragger), and the Casselli
girls (leg elevators).
** * *
Another carnival is posted as due at the
imperial Dancer.v (William-street, Sydney)
a? k&turday. It will be an “American
TMight, and, while guests will be permitted
to chew gum, expectorating will cost the
expectorator 10 dols. 50.
❖ >1;
Peter Dawson, back in Adelaide, his old
home, with his wife, temporarily disabled, got
together a clever team from the abounding
local musical talent, and delighted the Exhi-
bition crowds. His' art has improved, and,
using his voice as a musical instrument, he
seems to take personal pleasure in the effects
he can produce with it. From “Elijah” to the
rollicking “Zummerzet” is a long step, but he
goes all the way. The prophet gave him a
chance to be declamatory; opera ought to
give him a still bigger. At the Tivoli, the
lMliofc kavonas extract some good music in
unusually elaborate setting and costume, and
lields is a continual joy. The King’s has
a good mixed bill, with Dimitrescu and co. as
the most remarkable, the Westons’ statuary as
the most artistic, and Leonard Nelson as the
most popular. Waller’s clever Butterflies
at the Town Hall announce the end of their
long season. “Madame X.” at the Royal
proves a pleasant surprise. Instead of
mere melodrama, it is Greek tragedy treated
on Trench lines. Muriel Starr’s acting
of the outcast is remarkable, and the verv
strong team of men plays up to the lead.
❖ v sfc
A revival of Gilbert and Sullivan opera,
with a fairly satisfactory co., has started to
the »Z time at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.). The Gondoliers,” which opened
the season last Saturday, has always been
one of the most popular of the series. Its
humor is of the broadest Gilbertian order
Its satire slashes at aristocracy and cuts
at republicanism with impartial feeling, and
its human interest in the love and matrimony
department is particularly strong. Sung with


99
“Thoroughbred” Hats are as thoroughly made as their name implies
embodying the finest material with the most skilful manufacture so
that quality and durability go hand in hand with smart appearance
perfect comfort, and—-correct fit.
The way to tell a “Throughbred” Hat is by the trade nmrk
trated here), which is on the inside leather
of EVERY “Thoroughbred” Hat. If it’s not
there, it’s NOT a “Thoroughbred.”
See you GET a “Thoroughbred.”
In Newest Shapes at Popular Prices.
Sold by ALL Leading Stores, Hatters and Mercers.
If unobtainable in your district , ter it e direct ,
(as illus-
I The AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LTD.
Abbotsford Melbourne
A 3.05-7 W
THIS IS THE "o/Axrunjuy/Un&d" TRADE MARK
m m. %
AHM
For All
Seasons
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wf, Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc. ,
PINNERS’ HALT., LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN'S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV
Branches in all parts of the w orld.
Hydrometers, for testing every liquid.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession,
We make and repair them, and will
send you a catalogue, upon request,
ot the most up-to-date Instruments for
Brewers, Wine <& Spirit Merchants.
Refrigerators, Engineers, Surveyors
tanners, Sugar Boilers, Meat &' Ice
Works, Butchers, Bakers, Vignerons.
Agriculturists Graziers, Dairv
Farmers, Makers of Aerated Water
Cordials, Vinegars, Oils, Varnish, Soap
and Candles. Also for Schools, Col-
leges, the Medical Profession, and the
Household. Thermometers, Barome-
ters, Hydrometers, Rain, Gas, Water
Vacuum and Pressure Gauges made!
repaired and readjusted. Lubricator
and Gauge Glasses, all sizes. Dairv
factory Glassware and Testing Appar-
u... .. atus 3 Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS & GO. Ltd., Wharf Bt., Brisbane Q
a sufficiently effective chorus, and introduc-
ing a fat, genial Grand Inquisitor in place
of the hard, dry official whom Howard
vernon presented of yore, “The Gondoliers - ’
1 billed for 12 nights—should meet reason-
able requirements at the pay-box. All the
same, the first performance gave the im-
pression that the co. has no outstanding,
forceful personalities to attract attention.
Edward McKeown, the new tenor, made the
hit of the evening in his singing of the
hackneyed “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes.”
McKeown is a well set up, honest tenor, who
produces a good voice for all it is worth, and,
like the other men principals, enunciates his
words tellingly. But at present he is con-
siderably above himself in condition, and
after a dance he shines with perspiration.
Marco he outshone his mate Guiseppe
(Frank Wilson), a pleasant, unaffected bari-
tone and actor, who lacks only distinction in
his part. Albert Kavanagh (the Colonel
Popotf of the original “Chocolate Soldier”
co.) has voice enough, despite its flatness,
for the Grand Inquisitor, and he gave a
bright new color to the character. Also
Chas. Walenn, as the Duke of Plaza Toro,
proved to be a likeable little comedian. He
got the house’s vote and interest in the first
act, and his witty duet with the Duchess
(Ethel Morrison) in the second act might
have gone equally well if that tall and comely
contralto had a better regulated voice and
diction. In these respects Miss Pearl Ladd,
as a graceful daughter Casilda, can give
points to her stage mother. In fact, the most
effective of the mixed pairs of characters
were the lady aforesaid and G. Arnold, as
his Grace’s own particular Drum, though
the lady’s singing voice suffered a little from
nervousness. Of Ruth Lincoln and Dorothy
Vane as the two young brides of the Gon-
doliers, it is charitable to say that they will
doubtless do better than on Saturday. Miss
Lincoln is the more out of place of "the two.
She neither sings the music nor acts the part
naturally. Her vocalism and style are equally
too slow and mannered for the job. Miss
Vane, as Tessa, returning to the stage after
a long absence, seemed to have the lively
spirit of the part in her, and there was at
least a note of sympathy in her share of the
final to the first act, where the other bride
was noticeably deficient. But Miss Vane at
her best is not equal to her singing responsi-
bilities, and both she and Miss Lincoln were
indistinct in the unaccompanied quartet, “In
a. Contemplative Fashion.” Chorus and
orchestra did well enough, though both have
been better in the past. The past, however,
is so long ago that comparisons don’t matter.
A respectable Gilbert and Sullivan revival is
acceptable on its merits.
** * *
“Officer 666,” staged at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday night, is the least credible of all
the offerings wherein Fred Niblo’s tailor
strives so gracefully for expression. None
of the characters approach reality. The
most probable of them is the plump “cop”
who loans his uniform for 500 dollars and
temporarily forgets his decorum in his
pocket’s need. The millionaire who borrows
the uniform to impound the embezzler of his
name and pictures is as humorous a fiction
as the charming ingenue who has been be-
guiled by the tongue of the polished crook.
It never occurs to her to inquire why her
would-be hubby should need the company
of the aforesaid masterpieces on the honey-
moon. For that matter, it never strikes
him to instantly question the identity of
the bogus policeman who obligingly steps
from the window curtains to help him pack
the works of art. Other characters accept
the most unbelievable circumstances as a
matter of course. Nevertheless they are
diverting creations, bursting into ifhe dia-
logue with a banging of doors and ringing
of bells, and tearing out as if hurrying to
catch a train. The very slickness of their
action leads to the success of “Officer 666.”
They have to take the play at a rapid tempo,
for they cannot afford to stop for explana-
tions.
* * * *
The comedy is delivered in one scene
divided into three spasms, whereof the third
is a close continuation of the second, the
hero and his masquerader merely resuming
in the final session the interesting situation
of watching one another over six inches of
revolver. _ F. Niblo plays the hero million-
aire pleasingly enough, but without so much
of the beautiful, well-creased clothes that
used to make him look like a diagram in
Euclid. In this show he is garbed as a
plain U.S. policeman for a good part of the
time, and, sartorially speaking, is a butterfly
changed to a grub. Sydney Stirling pro-
vides a striking study of the picture thief
whose vocabulary and effrontery rise
superior to any emergency. Robert Greig
handles Constable Phelan in his usual for-
tissimo manner, but his brogue is too thick
and lags superfluous on the tongue. Edwin
Lester achieves a few minutes of import-
ance as a detective. Maurice Dudlev is a
minor crook ; and Pirie Bush a callow" Whit-
ney Barnes. Miss Marion Marcus Clarke
is effusively weak as Mrs. Burton, and the
Misses Colian and Holloway look attractive
in their respective parts.
Neatly staged for a Repertory Theatre
matinee at the Melbourne Koval a single
performance of Ibsen’s “An Enemy of the
I eople created no apparent demand for
repetitions of that unconvincing play in five
ac^s 'j the doctor, as is suggested,
stands for Ibsen himself in conflict with the
stodgy “compact majority” of his Nor-
wegian fellow-citizens, Ibsen presented his
case in a foggy and foolish way. The doctor
is a puerile egotist who thinks he has covered
lmnself with glory by discovering that
the town’s mineral baths and drinking water
are infected with typhoid germs. The town
isn’t suffering from a typhoid epidemic, and
the Mayor’s proposals for dealing with the
tiouble, if it exists, seem a good deal wiser
than the “raving doctor’s” proposal to adver-
tise his discovery and burst up the town’s
reputation for baths. Moreover, it is evi-
dent that if the germs are as numerous and
deadly as he declares, his own private prac-
tice will presently be enormous, so he will
be the most influential citizen thereabouts.
This idea never occurs to anvbody in tin*
whole course of the play. The local authori-
ties and the compact majority perceive only
the necessity for keeping the egotist quiet,
and they act accordingly. Whereupon lie
forms himself into a minority of one and
discovers that the minority is always right
He changes his motives as he goes along
At first he is for purifying the water sunplv
for hygienic reasons only. Then he is" for
ousting the old bureaucrats and putting new
democrats in their places. Finally lie
discovers that new democrats are selfish
asses, and a noble autocrat is the one thing
needed. He talks and talks, hut he says
nothing that isn’t more forcibly said and
more logically argued by Thackeray in “Pen-
dennis” and elsewhere. He forgets that ad-
vanced theorists are people apart from the
majority and minority of the fat-headed pub-
] lC ’ whose leaders are adapting their
intelligence to practicable affairs. His doc-
trine that “the majority is always wrong”
is only a half-truth, anyhow. In the main
body of the public there is always a Tory
minority, which is invariably wrong. There’s
a right minority far ahead, and a wrong
minoi ity lagging behind, and a “compact
majority” that represents Common Sense.
1 lie fact that Common Sense is not advanced
thought is one of the eternal truths of life,
yet the Ibsenic doctor professes to
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Mischel Cherniavshy
plays soulfully on
the 'cello.
Leo Gherniavsky,
the violinist, in
painful mood.
l* ave “discovered” that no truth lives longer
than 20 years. What he has really dis-
covered is that many acts of public policy
do n ot hold good for a longer period, and
that public policy can never be a full, prac-
tical expression of advanced thought.
Gregan McMahon’s performance of the
wordy medico part was his longest and
strongest effbrt up to date. Norman Carter,
as the burgomaster, gave him solid support,
and. T. Skewes, Miss Appleton, Newell
Christian and others gave human aid to the
heavy entertainment. “An Enemy of the
1 eople is admirably dramatic in its petty
provincial way, but its attempts to be humor-
ous are almost infantile in crudity.
. When “Aladdin” had been running six
nights at Melbourne Princess’s the manage-
ment grabbed time by the forelock and
announced that the pantoganza would last
tor only three weeks more. On Saturday it
wiil be half-way through its allotted span of
life. Earnest seekers after pantoganza are
exhorted to remember that next week will be
the last but one.
* * * *
._ At _ Melbourne King’s the last night of
Maud Allan and the Cherniavskys is to-night
(Thursday). On Saturday magic and'spells
will be the goods. Leroy, Talma and Bosco,
with their 80 tons of scenery and sundry
vaudeville artists, are due on the 4tli, and
prices will be as they were before they went
For the moment there is no star of greater
magnitude at Melbourne Tivoli than Beth
late, the lady who sings rather naughty
songs in the tone of devout simplicity. But
some impressive new “turns” are understood
o be near at hand, and the eve of eager
expectancy is watching the Tiv.’s advts.
Josephine Gassman and her Piccaninnies
are now awakening the enthusiasm of the
multitude at Melbourne Bijou, and Fanny
Jiice is also earning considerable applause.
1 anny makes the most of her mobile face
and humorous voice in the impersonations
she presents so neatly on her miniature
?F n £ e - c * vc^n S act of Valentine and
Bell has several novel features; and Jack
Shields’ farmyard imitations are better than
* I> ? tt r l ' and llis son £s. Also present are
Alfred Latell, animal actor, and the two
Storeys, still ragtiming furiously.
Among Spencer’s Pictures at Melbourne
Majestic on Saturday was “Protea and the
Infernal Automobile,” providing another in-
stalment of the adventures of the greatest
lady Tec in moving fiction. “The Old Man”
and “Double Cross” were the best of the
other dramas, and the sole travel subject.
“In the Valley of the Jonte,” supplied some
uncommonly charming views in the south of
France.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“D.”: A cable message reports the death, last week
of Brandon Thomas. lie had, at least, two claims
to fame: he was the tallest actor in the United
Kingdom, if not in the world, and he wrote “Char-
ley s Aunt.” “Charley’s Aunt” was first produced by
Pen ley in 1892, and it ran for four years. Since
then it has been played all over the world, and in
most languages. Brandon Thomas—a fine comedian—
Colonel Chesney in the original production
Also, 1 remember him as one of the features of “A
Pantomime Rehearsal,” with Weqdon Grossmith and
other stars. He must have been about 60 when he
died.
Adelaide’s capacity for amusement, as stated by
I'red Seager, of West’s Pictures, in opposing the
scheme to clip off some of the Park Lands and hand
it over for a Luna Park: “Five vears ago Adelaide
was looked upon as one of the worst show-towns in
Australia To-day it is one of the best During
the last three years local amusement managers have
built or reconstructed the following places of
amusement; Wondergraph, £50,000; New Tivoli
theatre, £40,000 ; King’s Theatre, £20,000; Pav-
ilion Pictures, £14,000; Theatre Royal, £20,000;
Central Pictures, £6OOO ; West’s Olympia, £BOOO
In about another 12 months the old Tivoli will be
rebuilt, at an estimated cost of £30,000.” This last
item brings into the open a thing that has been
talked of confidentially for some time. Rickards
USe< L t0 T, hav ? ? mon °Po}.y of variety at the Tivoli,
f. s h , ad > and still has, of drama. Then
the little King’s was built; and run by Brennan-
1< idler in opposition. Last year Mclntosh was struck
by a big place Sayers and Lennon were putting up
for drama; he secured it, named it the Tivoli, and
left his small old central house of that name for
the sumptuous one in a more out-of-the-way street
Good programmes are steadily teaching the public to
go to it. Meanwhile, the old Tivoli was sub-let for
pictures only. Brennan-Fuller, seeing their chance
jumped in and got a lease of it from 1915, when the
former one expires. They propose then to desert in
turn their little, remote “King’s,” and build a new
one which will be sumptuous and central.
: ,,^ e Actors’ and Actresses’ Homes,
established in Melbourne by noble Coppin, are iroin"
begging, not for money, but for inmates. Do
Thespians starve out before they reach the 'qualify-
ing age. Or are they bloatedly prosperous, with
treasure laid up elsewhere than in Heaven? The
on W inmates of the Homes known, to me are three
worthy iadies: Miss Eloise Juno, Mrs. Melville, and
Mrs. Gladstone. Miss Juno came to Australia about
half a century ago. She was then already an Edin-
burgh favorite, excelling as Helen MacGregor and
the Bonnie Fishwife. Mrs. Melville came in 1873
or so, with Ella Carrington, Grace Hathaway, 11.
H. Vincent Owen Reynolds and Stirling Whyte.
Her husband, G. R. Melville, was a well-known Aus-
tralian actor. Mrs. Caroline Gladstone (don’t con-
found her with Mary Gladstane, Mrs. Bayliss) played
humble parts on the Melbourne boards for many
years, and her husband had a long career, too.
The Half-or-less-than-Half-Ulster “army” man-
oeuvres have been a lovely advt. for the “Ireland To-
day” picture show which reeks of Home Rule senti-
ment. Sprightly M. P. Adams, who went to \Yest-
ralia with the Erin-go-bragh pictures, some months
ago, reports great business at the mining towns, and
has booked engagements for the films until Septem-
ber. Meanwhile he is introducing them to Broken
Hill, and cabling to London to know what's the
matter with Less-than-Half-TJlster. Its agitation has
cooled down lately, regardless of the best interests
of Adams’s little show.
A poll of Adelaide ratepayers has squashed, by
7804 to 4281, the proposed leasing of four acres
of park lands, at £6OO a year, for a White City.
The opposition was fierce, and its grounds various.
“Pawning the people’s heritage” came first, but a
lot of practical election work was done by the
combined amusement-managers of the city, who
frankly said they think it unfair to let loose on
them, big payers of rates, a strong competitor who
would pay none. Some people claimed that the
rent was absurd, considering the vast profits that
must be made, while others said the thing would
go smash after one season, and leave a beggarly
array of canvas and bare timber. Also, “Mother of
Ten” struck a pathetic note by urging that there
are already quite enough shows for young peoile to
fool away ,their money on. Eslick and Baird, the
promoters, *put up an unexpectedly good fight. They
got many backers, who hoped for employment in
building or running the City, and sharebrokers took
a hand, sniffing business that way. The result was
an immense vote that simply blocked all dav the one
polling-place allotted. Eslick and Baird,'who had
issued some clever man-to-man appeals for considera-
tion, announced at once that they were not down-
hearted, and would certainly get their four acres
somewhere.
“Sehnapper”: The high price of fish hits other
people besides the suburban householder. The other
morning the manageress of a sea-lion and penguin
sideshow told me it cost her £1 for two-days’ fresh
sea-food for the aquarium. It isn’t any good giving
them stale stuff—they wouldn’t look at it. “Usually
I can get supplied for a week for 30s. ; but that
stormy spell made it dear. They say there’s plenty
, 1 '° U 1 ! < J I the , coast. Why isn’t it cheap and
plentiful? If I hey, son, don’t chuck cake in: they
wont eat it!”
Shows in Paris are, according to John N. Raphael,
the famous correspondent there of the Sphere
Referee and other London papers, getting sultrier
than ever. Some details: “Delysia was—l suppose
e must say dressed—in red. AngOre was in black.
Delysias dress was quite transparent, and Angere’s
would have been if there had been enough, of it to be
visible. And to make matters worse, or—well tliev
danced, very much in unison, not only on the stage
but down along the flowered platform in the middle
, the audience. My word! Pictures.? Living
I' ; ' us • 1 "Paries ! There is one young ladv in a
wil ka l d „a°a h ’ nf ' elB ?, at all who—well, never mind : I
will not add no matter, for there’s plenty .... There
‘Anhrodifn 1 ’" l W ? rmth „ i i l , the original atmosphere of
oivmn ’ * I a we fairly P artepl with the heat at
iJ5 mpi “- A,l<l it was a nasty wet evening outside,
00. No wonder the refreshment contractors wore
6 ’ kin<l of tl,inB makes you
i Slliel Barr -7. now making a name in
2",' 1S il s . on of Andrew Slliel Barry, whose-
jouthful Australian name was Andy Donohue and l
™ o tn mde i " S first -appearance in Sydney with an-
amateur club which held its meetings in a
theatre in Sussex-street. As a professional lm
arrived in a ball attached to the old Red Cow Inn.
at Parramatta. On this side Andy was most sue-'
wardaV" Insh . c °medy, though in England after-
-..“sanisa
of the° Irish 'Literary Society.’ lhe S ° n ' S “ mclrlber
According to the posters, La Milo, who was Pansy
the " h i e 'i .4. ustral , ian ,la -vs, has just been giving
the i.iOOth exhibition of her own female form divine.
stonned S^f”o: V H oria }'* s gone Lauder-mad. I
ww t d at i a country village the other night and
went to a local concert. There were no less than
three Lauder mimics on the programme. AH -i
Lauoer impersonator has to do, it. seems is to sing
some unintelligible gibberish, nod the 'head in a
cunning, lor bhme style, and wave a whisky bottle
The comic singer of old times who came on with a
fake nose and baggy trousers and creaked out “Yin.
th£e y paTnfuf Heal-s"' humori I st compared with
Wore ittn L V lu pray parnestl >' th ey’U stop it
oeiore J get to hate the name of Scotch which r
should miss these cold nights. ’ wmch 1
is in Victoria an “ Ulster Defence
oil 1! I f nd Jl the cou ncil thereof has
nUegedly on behalf of Australia, to
this effect: General sentiment entirely
Ulster-. Many here en-
!v t 0 flght for Ulster.” Now, seeing
that the representatives of Ulster gave I
majority vote in the Commons in favor of
Irish autonomy—the same sort of thing that
Victoria enjoys; and that the talk about
Ulstei being solid against Irish autonomy
? P,°?, r V Sllly A lg A norant 1 . or malicious lie—
isn t it time the Australian Postal and Tele-
graph Department shut down on the lie, and
refused to transmit it? It surely isn’t the
business of the loyal Cook Ministry to send
glanng falsehoods over the cable for the
annoyance of the British Government.
Weights for the Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups were published last week simultaneously with
the allotments for the Epsom and MetropoPtan and
now begins the .foolishness of early puXs in back
TJ p faVor 1 * es at the miserable odds on offer
year is an early °-l hi f running thil ' d last
bourne wtn 6 favonte fo >' this year’s Mel-
D urne Oup, but they were probably a poor lot thof
finished behind Posinatus, and on paper there is ™
encouragement to back any of them at a short nrino
months before the event. All the Spring" handfcaos
this year seem flattering, more or less, to at least
arT that n? hJhSft -
any 'fer
will be young three-year-olds, or four-year-olds that
have not thusfar done anything to speak of The
three-year-olds of this month, by the way? will bt
the four-year-olds of next.
THE CREEPING MIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I would have liked to have crept hack to the
stage quietly and unostentatiously,” said Miss Vane,
regarding the interviewer reproachfully.— Extract
from half-column interview with Dorothy Vane in
Melb. Aon.
The actress slowly crept to where
The footlights beckoned bright.
Before her on the open road
A kind press-agent boldly strode,
To screen her from the sight
Of Peeping Toms, who might intrude
Upon her cherished solitude.
The noble fellow beat a drum
And blew a bugle loud ;
Ill's hon’rable intentions were
To, in this subtle manner, scare
Away the vulgar crowd,
Which else would flock to gaze upon
The self-cil'acing liistrion !
But some base wretch of lowly birth
Had breathed the lady’s name;
Likewise her occupation, and
A few more things; on ev’ry hand
The eager burghers came.
She hid her face, surprised, dismayed.
“Alas!” she wept, “I am betrayed!”
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


WINTER SALE
Unusual Bargains in Ties, Shirts 8 Collars
>
1/6 each
During our Winter Sale (June 30 to July 18)
the articles in our Men's Mercery Department
are marked at exceptional figures. The
following are specimen lines: —
The Smart Kings way Ties.
12,000 of the latest designs in
neckwear. Usual price 2/- and 3/-
The D.J. Tunic Shirt.
A smart shirt in the newest shades. AVill give
splendid wear. Sizes, 14in. to Jill g»ch
neckband. Usual price 4/0 eOWU
ri*s •
In the most recent shapes. Best texture.
From 7/6 to 10/6 doz.
Send for Illustrated Catalogue. Carriage
Paid on Goods throughout Australasia.
DAVID JONES Ltd
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
Mil 1
iN
iff
14
A
a
•N
\
Vacuum Oil Co.
' Pty. Ltd.
Throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“Spinnaker”: Caught on the wrong side
of Smoky Cape in the big blow of June 18
were two of the fast-disappearing class of
sea-going midget that finds employment in
the timber trade along the N.S.W. coast.
MY CLP!
The unwritten law (in the Northern Territory).
These were the schooner Aleda and ketch
Alfred Penning, and both were driven on a
lee shore and lost with all hands. They
were among the few survivors of the once
numerous fleet of schooners and ketches that
helped to build up many a snug hank
account, although it would have been a
frigid day for any of the derelicts that risked
death in them who handed a teller a de-
mand for Built with the primary ob-
ject of skating in and out of the shallow
gutters known as the North Coast bar har-
bors, many of the vessels have piled their
bones along the coast, some of them, such
as the Candidate, the Paris and the West-
ern Star, emphasising the proceedings by
simultaneously piling up the bones of all
hands. Old. bones they mostly were, and
old bones they mostly are now, in the sea-
corned bodies of the crews. Almost invari-
ably they are the remains of ancient “Dutch-
men,” who continued to do battle with the
Lord’s Wrath upon the seas long after the
age of discretion. Not one of the crew of
the Aleda was much under 60. The skipper
was 66; the mate 65. They went under to
an incalculable outburst of the fury and
devilry of D. Jones.
The Cathedral City of Christchurch
(M.L.) had one more of its periodical shocks
the other day. This time it was a girl-in-a-
taxi scandal. It appears that a pleasant
Sunday afternoon was contemplated by two
men and two girls, aged .(the girls) 14 and
15. A taxi was brought into the picnic to
lend variety, and, as an additional item of
interest, a bottle of whisky was purchased.
The day was spent far from the gadding
crowd, and in the opaqueness of night the
party returned to town. By this time one
girl was more or less like Noah when Ham
got into trouble and Sliem and Japheth
walked backwards. Next morning a pretty,
well-dressed nipper appeared in court
charged with drunkenness, and was remanded
to allow the police an opportunity of bring-
ing the alleged hooligan-men to account.
They were brought to account, and theii
story was almost pathetic. They said they
had only one bottle, and the girl who made
the trouble had less than her share. But
she couldn’t stand drink, and on the return
journey she started to shout at the top ol
her voice. This attracted attention. Wow-
sers rushed out of Louses and hung on tc
the car like ants. Sometimes it was black
with wowsers. They demanded that the
girl should be rescued, and tried to save her,
and when the tenth wowser climbed on he
pulled the first wowser off to make room,
and was himself pulled off by the twenty-
fifth wowser. At last —so the story goes—
the car had to stop for fear of running over
missionaries, sisters, deaconesses and other
well-meaning people, all attracted by the
noise of the girl who had had a pair of small
drinks. She was taken into a house —thus
the story runs —by persons in poke bonnets
and with Bibles under their arms. She
left the house —in this manner the narrative
travels—presumably because her own narra-
tive wasn’t sufficiently sensational. The
car broke away in the confusion —that is
how the yarn pursues its course—and fled
for home and mother. But the names of the
parties concerned were known —the names
being probably Smith. And when the
police heard that a very young woman was
in hysterics on the highway things began to
happen. Yet nothing very definite happened
after all, except that Christchurch was
horribly scandalised.
“Jeames”: A whole tankful of nonsense
has been written and spoken about the loan
of Yaralla, near Sydney, to the Governor-
General. A number of Liberals immediately
saw in it a dark Labor device to take the
wind out of the sails of those who are trying
to recapture the Macquarie-street mansion
from the Holman party. On the other hand
a Laborite told one of the Sydney evening
papers that it was the trickiest Liberal dodge
A RELAPSE .
NEIGHBOR: "Good thornin', Mrs. Dawkins. An' ’ow does your good man this mornin'?"
MTS. D. : " Ah, 't is a sad thing , winch I ’ ad ’ opes of ’is total recovery yesteddy. When
come ’ome larst night 'e was able to count ’ow many kids we ’ad , and now this
mornin' ’e’s drinkin’ worsen ' en ever."
that had been.rexposed and frustrated for
years. Others acclaimed Miss Eadith
Walker’s astonishing “patriotism,” and de-
nounced the Herald for its injurious sug-
gestion that she was elderly, and talked of
her self-sacrifice in yielding up her “beauti-
ful home,” and maundered generally. What
are the facts? Yaralla is one of the best
places around Sydney to get out of during
the winter months. The roads in its neigh-
borhood are awful. The journey, to or from
town, by launch is cold and through hideous
surroundings. The garden, which does a
good deal during the summer to redeem the
suburban ugliness of the outside aspect of
the house, is, of course, asleep during July
and August. And the marble beauties of the
interior, while suitable enough in the case
of a summer abode, are the last words in
the way of undesirableness from the point
of view of people who suffer from cold feet.
Yaralla suggests an Italian villa built by
a Bondi architect. The outside is pure
Coogee; the interior a fair imitation of
Bellagio or Isola Bella. It has long been
known in our Servants’ Hall that Miss
Walker is only too anxious to get out of
Yaralla. It is too far away from civilisa-
tion, and the approaches to it are too de-
pressing and unsightly and ruinous to
vehicles. There is little doubt that if she
could find anyone eccentric enough to wish
to rent the place she would leap at the
chance. Meanwhile the G.-G. and his en-
tourage will be given a priceless opportunity
to demonstrate their Caledonian hardihood.
The Yaralla draughts are enough to freeze
oil.
* * * *
South Aus. is experiencing the full irony
of which its climate is capable. For a long
spell its weather has been simply “perfect”
—still days of sunshine, with calm, cold
nights and occasional showers. But the
showers that make Adelaide’s gardens a
blaze of color are not much good to wheat
crops, and they are so valueless also to
creeks that the city’s double-barrelled water
supply is actually, at midwinter, taking in
less than is consumed. Anywhere, from 200
miles north “feed” is of a beggarly scarcity,
and the Government is, as in the old drought
days, making arrangements for the removal
of starving stock.
As usual, Pastor Worrall, the noisiest
wowser of them all, drew largely upon his
imagination when he attacked John Murray
for attending the Pelkey-McVea scrap or
sparring match in Melbourne. Worrall pic-
tured Murray “sitting in the front seat, amid
the howls and hoots of a vulgar mob. watcli-
ing the negro pugilist McVea thumping
another of those forlorn ‘white hopes’ out
of action.” According to the wild parson
Pelkey was “punched into incapacity and
collapse,” the contest was one of “brutish
deeds, fit only for brutish men,” and so on.
As a matter of cold fact, the meeting was a
dreary jest played by ian utterly busted
‘.‘white hope” and a cullud gent, who owns
a bow-window effect of which any alderman
Would be proud. The affair lasted .only 10
minute#, and, so far was it from being “full
of brutish deeds’’ that, the alleged “howling
and • hooting” crowd spent most of its time
chaffing the jesters, inquiring plaintively if it
was a fight or a coursing match, and advis-
ing them to settle the matter in the Arbitra-
tion Court.
The small crowd in South Australia which
cares a straw about such matters, is getting
annoyed at the way Birthday and other titles
continue to avoid it. ■ It hasn’t had one
worth counting for years. Even Douglas 1
Mawson, though a lecturer at Adelaide Uni-
versity before he went south, was born in
England, and educated in Sydney. The
Register, having now no title on the
premises, talks like a very angry curate
about it. “Not a single native-born Austra-
lian, from one end of the Commonwealth to
the other, has apparently been regarded by
the King’s advisers as having rendered any
public service worthy of official recogni-
tion !” it says, apropos the last lot. And
Chief Justice Way, holder of the one heredi-
tary title in S.A. —-cannily conferred only
when it was plain that there would be no.
heir —calls the new list “very meagre.”'
Local opinion has for years past been nom-
inating Premier Peake, Professor Stirling,,
and Sowden, editor of. the Register, for 1
knighthoods, and so far all they h aye landed!
among them is_a poor little C.M.G.
A GOOD HOME GOES BEGGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GOOD HOME offered small Pet Dog or Persian
Kitten, no children. —Daily paper advt.
We offer a home for a poodle pet
Or else for a Persian cat,
Where never a cry comes worrying nigh
From babe or troublesome brat;
The floors are covered with carpet rare,
We dine off expensive plate,
And never a wail of the bustling Vale
Can worry a poodle’s pate.
We’ve no encumbrance, we’re glad to say,
No rollicking boys and girls
To rip up the street with a wild “Hooray!”
And ruin the morning’s curls ;
We know that a well-conducted pup
Would turn up his nose at that,
And we wouldn’t be game to inflict that same
On a sweet little Persian cat!
For Persian kittens are dainty things;
They come from the dreamy “East,”
Where hustle and go work no man woe
And Life is a daily feast;
You wash ’em and comb ’em and scent ’em, too,
And make ’em a fricassee,
And then you’ll find, if you’ve not gone blind,
How happy the pets can be.
Our name is good in the neighborhood,
We pay for our stuff with cash ;
And there’s not a pet would ever forget
The smell of our midday hash.
We’d feed on fillet a sweet bow-wow;
On bowls of the richest milk
Our kit should gloat till her shining coat
Would turn to the purest silk.
They won’t be bothered, we must repeat,
With kiddies to make them quail,
And none shall tease as they sleep at ease,
No little hands pull their tail;
They’ll see with joy not a sign of boy
Up here in our cultured flat,
But souls that pine for the converse fine
Of puppy and Persian cat.
We’re just a couple that’s close and kind;
We live for ourselves alone;
We let things slide in the world outside,
And smile on a world of our own ;
But hearts will yearn for a tender place
Whereon they may lean and rest,
And, like as not, we may find that spot
Right here on a poodle’s chest.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


PURIFIED PETROLEUM AS A HEALING
REMEDY FOR DIGESTIVE DISORDERS
The value of purified petroleum as a healing
remedy for digestive and bowel disorders is
now universally recognised. Unlike animal
or vegetable oils, petroleum passes through
the stomach unchanged, hence its soothing,
'U ricating, disinfectant action is. exercised
throughout the entire alimentary tract. To
obtain the best results from petroleum, it
should be administered in the form of an
'emulsion. In this form, the petroleum is
broken up into minute globules which mingle
ree ) with the contents of the stomach
and are thus evenly distributed throughout
•the digestive area, where the r soothing
extern B P ° WerS exerted to the fullest
The original and standard preparation of
petroleum for internal use is Angier’s Emul-
sion, which has been largely employed by the
medical profession ever since 1892. The
petroleum in Angier's Emulsion is purified by
a special process and combined with the
hypophosphites of lime and soda in the form
of a perfect Emulsion that is pleasant to the
palate and acceptable to the most delicate
stomach.
Apart from its soothing, healing properties
Angier s Emulsion (because of the hypo-
phosphites which it contains) exerts a marked
tonic, invigorating influence, which makes it
of value in a wide variety of disorders. The
medical profession prescribe it extensively not
only for lung troubles and wasting diseases,
but e\en more largely for gastric catarrh,
gastric ulcer, mucous colitis, nervous dysr
pepsia, chronic constipation and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders. Of all
chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
For tHe Winter
—a kSmart suit atso|-
Owing to the short duration of winter many men deem it
inadvisable to have warm clothing made to order. The
Peapes Ready-to-wear Suit quoted herein meets all require-
ments .and costs comparatively little. Smartly cut in the
prevailing style from winter-weight Brown Fancy Herring-
bone Mixture—also in Mid Grey. Two-button Coat with
seam and vent back. Trousers permanently turned up. A
good suit for service.
Ready-to-wear. Price, 50/-
Please state chest, waist and inside leg measurements when
t ordering.
Patterns and Catalogue on request.
PEAPEvS & GO. Ltd.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
•m
RETRIBUTION.
HIM : “I do wish
this old buffer would knock off send-
ing you chocolates."
HWE: " Surely you aren't jealous."
HIM : "Oh, no. But they give me toothache."
~ 11 B 1 nnei ; : The Norwegian whaler Camp-
bell has been wrecked on Corsair Rock, a
™ 1 ? in t r Ne P ean > which is one of the
lort Phillip Heads. The rock got its name
from the pilot yacht Corsair which was
wrecked there in 1874. Twenty years before
•that it had got in the way of the Sacramento,
bound from Melbourne with much gold. Those
<on board pushed away all right, but the crew
went back for the gold-boxes. They put all
the swag in the boat; but the gold capsized
it, and the men had a flounder for their
lives. After that there was a somewhat
queer affair in the wreck of the Eliza Earns-
den. This vessel belonged to Sam Ramsden.
the big Melbourne miller, who named it after
a beloved daughter. The ship was “lost”
going out of the bay, but floated off after
being abandoned. A party of fishermen
scenting big salvage, went aboard, and had
scarcely done so when the vessel sank. They
had a narrow squeak. It was on the same
point that the mail steamer Australia stuck,
and made a fortune for Aikman, who bought
the wreck. Many mariners think that an
automatic light should be placed there ; but
others hold that it w T ould be merely confus-
ing.
* * * »
One of the oldest steamers in the world
is the Stormbird, running on the Maoriland
coast. It was built on the Clyde 60
years ago, and when it came off the slip at
Wellington the other day after an overhaul
it seemed good for another 60. It was
built to act, with another small steamer,
the Wonga Wonga, as tender to two liners
that were going to run on a Melbourne-
lanama service. That service never came
off. So the Stormbird was shoved on to
the Melbourne-Westport service during the
gold stampede to lOU Land, and after-
wards went oh- the coastal trade there, at
which work it has plodded ever since.
» * * *
The Vic. State Governor, talking like an
uncle to a crowd of just-arrived immigrants,
struck at the root-cause of much Australian
impatience with assertive new-chums:—
K ee P your eyes open and your mouth shut.
Methods of farming here are different from those
employed in England, so do not give your employers
advice. Tins is, a great country for workers,
non t therefore be anxious to compare Australia with
England, to the disadvantage of Australia.
If Stanley thereby suggested to even 5 per
cent, of the 470 gaping immigrants that
_Ome is the country they have come to live
in, and not the place they have got away
Rom, he did a useful day’s work. And a
State Governor doesn’t have a chance to do
many useful days’ work in the course of his
job.
* * * *
“Camp”: The best advertising bait thus
far for immigrant domestics appeared in
Launceston Daily Telegraph. There was
a vacancy for a housemaid, and the invita-
tion to fill it appeared under the big head-
line; “Sport and Pastime.”
* * * *
“Incas” : Willie Watt proposes that Vic-
toria shall spend £->OO,OOO on a new graving
dock at Williamstown, though dry docks of
that kind are as obsolete almost as the chig-
non. In Britain, Ger-
many, Holland and
America all new docks
are of the floating
type. The " tof them
was built ujl wood a
century since; the
latest, made of steel,
can lift 46,000 tons.
At the Vulcan ship-
yards this big fellow
picked up the Impera-
tor, which is roughly
920 x 98 x 96 feet,
with a displacement
of 50,000 tons. The
Medway floating dock
can lift a vessel of
and cost
£~oo,ooo. Compare
that with the £500,000
Watt proposes t o
spend on an excavated,
masonry-lined affair,
which will take twice
as long to finish, and
will be a fixture when
it is finished, whereas
a modern floating dock
could pass from Syd-
ney to Hobart, or from
Williamstown to Port
Lincoln, for the ser-
and the mercantile maline. 6 ° f the uav - v
Judge Scholes, sitting in the N.S.W In-
dustrial Court the other day, had a fling at
the complaints made about arbitration de-
lays, and fastened the blame on to the par-
ties themselves. There was a small lfst
take 4 most "f d ?J' sto ° d the A FSt case would
tnKe most of the day. As soon as the
Court opened, one of the advocates an-
nounced that it had been arranged between
parties that he should appear in two other
industrial matters before Judge Edmunds
that day, so he asked for an adjournment
most immediately the Judge was asked for
an adjournment m another case. There
were only two other matters on the list, and
as one of those was struck out at the re-
quest of the applicants, the Court, with no
work to do, closed after sitting an hour,
while about 50 other cases clamored at the
door—and would probably not have been
ready to come in if the door had opened.
DOESN'T WORK BOTH WAYS.
JAMES EDWARD : "Devilish dangerous game
this dancing. I propose to almost every
girl I waltz with."
ALICE MAY : "Not so dangerous! A r o one
has accepted you. ”
.o‘-,‘^/„^ inge “ oine ” : A Sydney paper
|JJ./b/14) has_ been resurrecting the
Muscular Christian. The Ilev. Hammond
was with a reporter when he saw some
paper-sellers smoking cigarettes. After
what was termed “a lecturette on the prac-
tical evils of cigarette-smoking,” the pastor
burst forth :—•
I will tell you wliat I will do. I don’t mind if I
niiss the next tram. There are four of you chaps
here, and 1 will race the lot of you for 200yds. It
will be a relay race. You will each have to run only
oOyds and I will guarantee that I will beat three
out of four.
Of course there was no race, the paper-
sellers knowing doubtless what the police
would do to them if they ran a relay sprint
the heart of the city. The basic folly
ot the Itev. Hammond’s scheme is its de-
pendence on the notion that the total ab-
stinence principle pays large dividends in
this life. Every Sydney paper-seller knows
Harry Stone, though Hammond probably
doesn t. Stone told me that he smokes
from 12 to 14 cigars daily, and he was
consuming a long, black and pestiferously
ill-smelling cheroot within 10 minutes of
the fight in which he utterly defeated the
saintly Johnny Summers, of England.
Stone’s condition is always good, and he
can run like an antelope—an animal which
is faster than any parson. I have seen
McGoorty, Clabby, Dave Smith and most
of the other champion athletes not only
smoking but drinking. Nor do such prac-
tices appear to affect the intellect. If there
is a leading Sydney professional man who
neither smokes nor drinks he keeps the
matter dark. All our millionaires do one
or the other, and about 99 per cent, of them
do both. _ About the only testimonials to
the physical, mental and material gains
that accrue from keeping off the amenities
of life are supplied by needy and for the
most part broken-wmded clergymen. Virtue,
in this case, is virtue’s rottenest advt.
“Melb”: Curator
Cooper, of Alexandra
avenue, one of our
two experts in land-
scape gardening, has
just handed in a re-
port about a visit to
Sydney. He found
too many Moreton
Bay and Port Jack-
son figs for his taste,,
notably in Hyde Park,
where a beautiful
Flindersia australis is.
thereby spoilt to the
view. The blue-
flowering jacaranda
should, he thinks, be
planted near the flame'
tree. He sees other
defects in Sydney
color schemes. He
wants the deep-yellow
Cassia candolleana to>
be near the coral
erythrina, and calls
for the fire-wheel tree,,
the silky oak and the 1
pepper - tree wattle..
But Cooper is not
querulous all the time-.
Thus Hyde Park is;
admitted to be a credit
to the supervision of
Deputy Town Clerk
Layton, and there are
other dainty municipal
bits. Passing on to
private gardens, he
thinks the best in
N.S.W. (or the Con-
tinent, for that mat-
ter), surrounds Miss
Eadith Walker’s Yar-
alla home, on the Par-
ramatta. There are
25 acres of it, and
every plant is well
watered and manured
with the unearned in-
crement of the great
estate that Thomas
Walker left his lonely oplv chick
*
(Miiei Justice Oullen turned loose a jury
of four in Sydney Banco lately on learning
that the wife and two other members of
the family of one juror had been injured by
a gas explosion. It was the right thing to
do. Another N.S.W. Judge, presiding in a
capital case, learned that the wife of one
of the 12 jurymen was dying. The Judge
kept the secret, hut became fidgety, hasty,
uigent and irascible if there was any delay.
In short, he lost his balance, which was
THE A VERAGE FEDERAL MEMBER.
"Delighted—I don't think."
unfair to the accused. Another kind of
secret bottled up by a Judge had to do with
the inheritance of his baronetcy by Edward
Levien Samuel, son of old politician Saul;
Samuel, the engineer who helped to set up>
the Hawkesbury Bridge and scoop out
Cockatoo Dock. He was foreman of a
Sydney jury, and the case was still in pro-
gress when the presiding Judge was in-
formed that Saul had died and Edward was
a baronet. The secret was, however, hid-
den somewhere under the horsehair till the
verdict was returned after an all-night lock-
up; whereupon “How d’you do, Sir Ed-
ward/ said ’sonah, or words to that effect.
SONGS OF SUBURBIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.B.W.
The Night puts on her jewels,
The breeze, with gentle sigh
For rose-scents, drops the odors
Of things that stew or fry ;
And one by one the'tinkles
Of far pianos ring,
Where in a gentle discord
The neighbors play or sing.
The rain is on the river,
Next door, or next but one;
Nearby the Mississippi’s
Chaotic ripples run.
Within the street’s best hashliouse
Some chap is all alone ;
While somewhere sadly rises
Lament for Belle Mahone.
Loch Lomond’s not far distant;
The Holy City’s near ;
The true-ti 11-death-man’s message
Smites through the atmosphere;
The soft notes of Narcissus
Blend with the humming bird ;
Afar the joyful peasant
Is struggling to be heard.
About the soldiers’ chorus
An ill-used fiddle moans ;
Beside, there is a banjo
And two or three trombones ;
A French horn somewhere yieldeth
A casual note or so,
But their wild snorts I know not
And do not went to know.
For this fair night, my sweetheart,
And many other nights,
We’ll live and love together
Beneath the starry lights.
There is no shade of sorrow
In our heart’s songs; nor shall
We fear the tearful note of
Suburbia’s Carnival.
The little shop assistant
(lie looks but mean at best)
Through “Doreen” tells Miss Nextdoor
The feelings in his breast
For her ; and she is happy.
That song, “Juanita,” tells
The fancy for Clorinda
That in her bank-clerk dwells.
The world is full of joyance;
Although Suburbia’s songs
Cling to the sad and tearful,
Another note* belongs
To this same blend of discord
That all around us streams,
Where in our sweet aloofness
We keep our Isle of Dreams.
HAMER.
A COURT OF MORALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I’ve made my money honestly,” he said,
And shook the ashes from his fat cigar;
“The people whom I traded with, if dead
Or if alive—I don’t care where they are—-
I dare to name a wrong I did to men.”
(There was no Interstate Commission then.)
“All honestly,” he cried, and up and down
He moved his fat cigar complacently;
“I’ve never heard or seen reproof or frown
From any fountain of authority.
My honor stainless is before all men.”
(There was no Interstate Commission then.)
NT S XV '
N.S.W.
O.


STRATEGIC RAILWAYS.
Mr. Glynn added that there would be lines connecting with the Western and Eastern States. —Daily paper.
THE BOSS: “Ah, I see lines branchin’ east and west, Paddy!”
OVERSEER. “Yes, Joe; some folk want ’em for the good of the country. Anyhow, they’re good strategy.”


Russcll-street police barracks, where
almut 100 constables arc constantly
boused, have, through continual neglect
and the refusal of the Department to
Hiake suggested improvements, fallen
into a shockingly unwholesome state.
Men are living a‘ the barracks under
conditions which must be InjurioUst
Important as it undoubtedly is for a progressive
country to obtain such laws as will meet its growing needs
and reflect the deliberate will of the people, it is no less
Important—possibly even more important—that the
administration of its laws, the conduct of its public busi-
ness, should be in the hands of men of the right tyi>e.
2/M fen-trotee Border We'v« come. *■> i.
lmb rove dtfe \aho\%e. JoV, ttofs- A
boirly-M i< Wly K *£ ; -hi
• r t- And witbouTefficienT^l
ifc
* vdrnt, tiw SO
Kindly
Afgu<s 2 kS or,rT % liWy*l
. JWo inched
%\orT~ sf t#<> riobt S" '
on Irttte no©re Try
one our every v
te^ore
Joe CooK V/hy dorit”
ta,Kc m y ca ll v>l« non ly %C
Ser«ou<>ly P • jU,
l c^r > e \j
\V> 3«S^ -feKlcd
PRIVY COVNCILLOR.
Mr, Joseph Cook. Prime Minister of
Australia; KCM( ,
William Hill Irvine, K.C., Federal
Attorney-General, to be K.C.M.G.
1 am here and now calling the people
to their serious and solemn duty. 11
have done my share ip bringing them
face to face with it, I propose to
leave no stone unturned to try
® and bring them to perform
r'^ 5s their duty in a way they have
never done before.
—Joe Cook, at Tarnworth
) 'itollovA
\ V .
George. tf/e Waiter.
\ I WugVt yo« y° u, is
Vice , s \y
Boxing as part of the regu.
lar curriculum is to be intro-
duced into the State schools,
according to a decision ar-
rived at this morning by
Alexander Peacock, Minister
for Education.
Wft er.'— I s ! ow l>oy 5 /it/ ✓J.M
'for bo*mo exercise you s i'tf?)|_
couj>|e of- rounds V
. V
Sn>i flj)" Pie^s c vTeacher, iy you aoi>Ti'«i»>a4s=^^*-' . r
\'d sooner h*Y« go wiltpStinKer &rown. H«'i r*?y g» r ‘*
MOSTLY IN VICTORIA.


GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWIMCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send lor Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY,
HATS.
F or
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE.,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. u
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
MX
is the best washing preparation (or
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life 01. the clothes.
\
-
» I I
tfVtm* *
WONT
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER brothers
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Died at 62 years of age James Stuart,
oue of Sydney’s master builders. He was
responsible for the uplifting of some of the
finest buildings in the city. Perhaps his
most notable contribution was the roof of
the Fisher Library at Sydney University,
constructed of Australian cedar. To com-
plete the job the forests of Queensland were
ransacked in the search fer first-class speci-
mens of the fast-disappearing tree. The
architect, the late Colonel Vernon, has put
in on record that the Library roof is one of
the. three finest in the world.
Dr. William Barlow, of Adelaide, who
has at last been “honored” with a C.M.G.,
is a quiet, genial Irishman who kept Richard
Chaffey Baker’s office going while the senior
partner was for so many years up to the
neck in politics, first South Australian and
then Federal. Barlow was in his day re-
puted to be the best authority in sight on
all ecclesiastical law. His best work, how-
ever, has been done for Adelaide University.
He was its first registrar, and has for nearly
20 years been vice-chancellor. Now he is
80, a typical Don Quixote in looks, and in
manner the most lovable old Irishman—of
the conservative, Trinity-College-Dublin
brand—who ever tried to dam the stream of
twentieth-century innovations.
It may be jolly
sport, for the time
being, to cut down
Moreton Bay fig-
trees in Sydney;
but if the tide
of popularity ever
turns, where is Hol-
man going to shelter
in his old age?
Bigger politicians
than he have sat in
greasy clothes under
the spreading More-
ton Bay, and dreamt
of the grand old
days when they and
millions were inti-
mate friends. The
wise politician, in-
stead of going out
with an axe, should
plant at least one
shade tree per
month. Fortune is
fickle, friends are
forgetful, and bene-
volent asylums are
often hard to get
into; but the ruined-
individual can al-
wavs sit under a
tree and feel inde-
pendent.
“ SAMMY ” CRACK-
NELL, the light-
weight jockey of
long ago.
W. Kennedy-Smith, who is to contest Dun-
das (Vic.) for the Liberals, is, like F. Maldon
Robb, an ex-Scotchbyterian Meenister. Ken-
nedy-henperch-Smith did not, however, com-
plete his full course, but left last year to
assist J. T. Packer in forming his union of
poor unionists, with Leadquarters at the
Guild Hall in Swanston-street. The most
that can be said of him so far is that he is
as fluent as a waterspout.
Robert Atkins, registrar of the Church of
England diocese of Sydney, has just finished
his 60th year of service. He has served
under all the bishops and archbishops of
Sydney, bar Broughton, who died in ISS3 —-
under Barker, that is to say, and Barry, and
Smith and Wright.
Already the Federal candidates are gather-
ing together like flies round the carcase of
office. And it is a tribute to the incapacity
of the crowd in charge that the noisy and
wildly inaccurate Parson Yarrington is to
carry the Liberal banner for Cook
(N.S.W.). Heaven only knows why any
party should stagger up against Yarrington
as a possible statesman, but the deed has
been done.
Melbourne bas lost its most nervous “cop”
—Constable Gillanders. lie acted as a
Commonwealth Electoral Registrar and was
custodian of St. Kilda watchhouse. The pre-
paration of new rolls or work to that effect
had strained the nerves of this untypical
policeman, and the escape of a prisoner from
the shaky old watchhouse completed uoor
Gillanders’ mental downfall. He died of
suicide. He was the most sensitive member
of the force that the sergeant ever met.
“Bullocky,” last
survivor of the
aboriginal crick-
eters who toured
England nine
years before Jack
Conway took the
first Australian
white team, died
at Lake Condah
recently. The
abos., financially
engineered by one
Gurnett, were in
chnrge of Tommy
Wills and Charley
Lawrence, an An-
glo - Australian
cricketer. The
best - known of
them were Mull-
agh, Cuzens, Bul-
locky. Sundown
and Redcap. All
died early except
the first three
mentioned. Bul-
locky was reputed
to be 81; and may
have been more.
ALEXANDER
PEACOCK,
Victoria's new
Premier.
Ex-newspaper man, Lionel Fletcher, of
Port Adelaide, is an unusual kind of parson.
Lately he castigated the Port as an illegally
immoral place where various things go
unchecked by the police. Being immedi-
ately denounced as seven kinds of a libellous
busybody, he did not give as his authority
three masked strangers who had fled iu great
haste after revealing the awful tale; nor yet
some anonymous person of the highest re-
spectability who must not be called on to
confirm it. He just waited till the full
storm of abuse and denial—official and police
denial, some of it—had burst. Then he
handed to the Mayor a batch of sworn evi-
dence of so hair-raising a character that
the corporation, after one good look at it,
firmly turned the eager reporters out, and
shut publicity off at the meter. Mr. Flet-
cher has now, after making himself
thoroughly respected and unpopular at Port
Adelaide, received a “call” to a wealthy-
church of his (the Congregational) persua-
sion at Launceston. He received it gladly
and considered it prayerfully, after the usual
formula —and then declined it. The shafts
of satire are blunted against a parson like
that.
The crier adjourns the Court: —
Dead, at the age of 66, John Dodds, Chief Justice
of Tasmania —a man whose force of character, tenacity
of purpose and large abilities would have brought
him to the fore on almost any stage. He came to
Tasmania from Yorkshire (England) with his mother
and sister at the age of five, and was thoroughly
identified with the State by education and interests.
Though of what is called “good family,” he worked
his way from very small beginnings, until, in 1872,
he was admitted to the Bar. He commanded success
almost from the outset. His record includes nine
years of Parliamentary life, all but one month spent
in office, mostly as Attorney-General. In ’B7 (Jubilee
year) he went to England to represent Tasmania at
the Conference. Justice Giblin died just about this
time, and on his return Dodds took up the Puisne
Judgeship left vacant, holding it until he was ap-
pointed Chief Justice in ’9B. As a Judge he was
noted for a swift, unerring pounce on the essential
fact of a case. During one of his terms- as Lieu-
tenant-Governor he signed the Bill which made Tas-
mania a State of the Australian Commonwealth, and
he was also vice-regalling when Victoria died and
the Yorks paid their visit to Tasmania. He was
Chancellor of the University, President of the Tas-
manian Art Society, and deeply interested in all
branches of culture. In his younger days he was
addicted to cricket and rowing, and on one occasion
won a race after his boat had overturned and he had
righted it —an incident characteristic of the man.
To one of his temperament, chronic invalidism would
have been intolerable, and death did a kindly thing
when it ended a weary period of ill-health.
A London cable reports the death of
Henry Bowes Mugliston, a rather remark-
able man who could never quite make up
his mind. At first he thought he would
be a doctor, and he qualified accordingly.
Then he wasn’t sure that he wouldn’t do
better at law; so, there being plenty of
funds in the family, he studied and was
“called” in the Middle Temple.- A few
years later he heard of apples in Tasmania,
and with a half-formed idea of growing
some, he steamed for the. Speck, and then
decided to practise law instead. Two years
later he-was sure that he .ought to have been
a statesman, so he ran for the local Assembly
and got in. Tiring of law and politics and
Tasmania and apples, he next decided to
take up with his first love and bring her to
Sydney, so he settled alongside the harbor
and practised medicine for a while. Finally
he went back to the Cold Country and hadn’t
bad time to make up his mind to be some-
thing else when he died —predeceasing his
father, the man with the money. If he had
waited a little longer he might have been
Archbishop of Canterbury, and then run a
South American revolution, and gone whale-
fishing.
The howl of “Hamer”: —
Knibbs, the tireless person who, when he gets to
Heaven, will at once set to work to tabulate the
records in the Book of Judgment, has shown the in-
creases in wages recently granted by Wages Boards
and Arbitration tribunals. During the last quarter of
last year 43,342 persons benefited by increases of
wages averaging 4s. lOd. each per week, which meant
a weekly increase in the w'ages bill of X 10,488.
During the first quarter of this year 34,953 shared
an increase of £5395 per week, which works out at
4s. 4d. per week per man extra. So far nobody has
compiled anything to show how much extra foreign
goods can come in and find a market because of the
higher cost of producing local ” goods, nor has any
statistician shown what Australian chances are of
getting Joe Cook to raise the tariff wall high enough
to keep out the increased flow from foreign factories.
“F.C.’s” view of the case
The Vic. A.W.N. League is making a mess of
things. On top of its Senate pre-election bungle and
its muddling with Bendigo’s choice of Maldon Robb,
it has now got the Balaclava Liberals at logger-
heads. For six months Ilewison and Carty Salmon
had canvassed the district, and Dr. Lee had stated his
intention to have a try. The League should have
called for nominations, and have selected its candi-
date, as openly as it dared and as honestly as it
could. Instead, it offered the seat, with a hint of
probable Ministerial office, to Willie Watt. Ilewison
has so far laid low, but Salmon is raising Adam's
eldest son, and, at latest advices, intends to go to the
poll, Watt or not. He may beat Watt, and will possibly
be beaten by Labor, so the A.W.N.L. has a large
problem on its hands. Meanwhile, Watt has resigned
the State Premiership to Kookaburra Peacock, so,
unless the naicest women of St. Kilda possess more
tact than they are credited with, that pushful person
is liable to be left out in the raw, winter weather.
Still, he was cute enough to hang on to his billet
of M.L.A. —until he is sure of a Federal seat, and has
to drop the State one—and he can always come again
when Peacock has again howled himself over the
rim of the horizon.
COLLIER,
Minister of
Mines (W. A.).
“Star”: The Swan Hill (Vic.) Branch of
the Wimmen’s League held an intellectual
gathering the other day at which there was
a “guessing competition.” These were some
of the principal Questions
Who is the Prime Minister of Australia?
Who is the Premier of Victoria? -
Who is the Kookaburra of the State Assembly-?.
Name the two Houses of the State Parliament:
'What is a double dissolution?
There were about 200 of the very naicest
and most intelligent female Liberals pre-
sent, and correct answers were handed in
by two.
By “Petronius Earbiter” :
Do you know of any very large and swift oil-tank
steamers —those with a capacity of, say, from 750,000
to 1,200,000 gallons preferred—which will be avail-
able for charter, say in 1919, or thereabouts? Be-
cause, if so, I intend putting half a dozen into com-
mission shortly—that is, if the expected happens.
The Massey Government of Maoriland is proposing to
throw a sop to the Cold Tea party by reducing the
effective vote for National Prohibition from 60 per
cent, of the total poll to 55 per cent. If the Maori-
land Parliament will stomach this change (and what
won’t a moribund Parliament stomach?) it’s good-
bye to a legalised liquor traffic in Maoriland. At the
last general election in that joyous land, 55.83 of the
total votes polled were cast for this whole-hog form
of drought, so the odds are that at the next election
National Prohibition will win by an upper lip, or
so. That is, where my oil-tank steamers will come
in. Ostensibly, they will sail (bi-weekly) loaded to
the nozzle with oil, but after skimming three inches
off the top of the stuff in the pipe, you (or any
reliable person you choose to nominate) will come
on 1,200,000 gallons of something brown and differ-
ent. (N.B. —No passengers will be taken by, or in,
the Earbiter Oil Line boats.) I don’t expect to be
the only one in the gorgeous shypoo-smuggling game,
but I want to be the first. If I can get in. only.one
cargo I shall be able to leave the inkwell for ever,
and you will lose your most impecunious and valu-
less contributor.
The late PRO-
FESSOR
FRANKLIN
PETERSON,
of Melbourne
University
Conservatorium
of Music.
A prisoner who claimed that he had been
in the railway service told a Sydney Court
last week the reason why his name was not
known in the lists of that department. “I
was,” he explained, “working in my father’s
name, as I failed in the eyesight test in
my own.” A test in which a man who has
failed as Jehu can pass as Nicodemus seems
to call for investigation. For this is not
the first time this sort of thing has been
heard of. It has come out in previous cases
that men, in their eagerness to get into the
Railway or Tramway services, have made
application, after more than one failure, and,
borrowing the names and records of various
relatives and friends, have somehow arrived
in the long run.
About a picture that has caused a loud
yell:—
Adelaide Art Gallery, after thinking hard over a
painting bought for it and sent from London by
Rose Macpherson,, is now hanging it to see how the
public jumps. It is an amazing work, by Will Orpen,
the young impressionist. They say that an inter-
state expert of great tonnage staggered back on
being introduced to it, and said: “Good God! Is
it a caricature, or what?” Then he observed the
signature, and went away very thoughtful. The
public staggers, too. A caricature it is, but elabo-
rate, and in paint. Orpen calls it “Sowing new seed
for the Board of Agriculture and Technical Instruc-
tion for Ireland,” and it is packed full of symbol-
ism. Scene, an open sandy space near the sea.
Irish round-tower in sight. Pig lying in pen cheaply
run up against ruins of ancient building. Strange
female sowing grain from outstretched hand. She
is nude except for a heavy cloak thrown right round
to her back. Watching her is a typical wowser;
with him the female of his species. They stand
under a dead tree, with one green and vigorous
branch, on which is a crow waiting to get away
with the seed. Two cherubs or Cupids occupy the
middle of the canvas, their reflections in a little
pool—all painted beautifully. In fact, all the artists,
headed locally by Ilans Heysen, rave about the color-
ing. The public raves also. It calls the principal
figure a shameless hussy, ar.d throws the bricks at
her that ought to go to the artist for making her
so out-of-drawing. The picture brings with it a
whole' batch of ecstatic notices from London critics ;
but to: have given hundreds of pounds for a carica-
ture, and a far-off caricature at that, seems to the
'Adelaide public just dreadful.
A LOST WOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An article in the Times compares the agony adver-
tisements of 100 years ago with those of to-day, and
remarks that the former usually contained passionate
sentiment, while the latter are almost invariably
money-seeking advertisements. — Cable.
When Lionel used to appeal to May
With an XXX for an extra shilling,
You could read the column from day to day,
For every item was sweetly thrilling;
But now, in this prosy cash-and-cant age,
It is always “something to his advantage.”
Our eyes grew wet when we read the wail:
“Come home —all pardoned—my love undying”
We could see the ship as it sped full-sail
To the port where Mary or Maud stood sighing.
But now it is: “William Wiggins, stoker,
Please call or write. James Joskins, broker.”
It cannot be true that Romance is dead, 1
And that lass and lover no more canoodle;
But the agony ads. dry-eyed are read,
Since Love has given his place to Boodle.
"Where passionate Percy by Kate was harried
There now is silence. Perhaps they’re married.
“N.S.W.
MAX ADAMS.


-- ■ \
m
.
IS
■
...* K'- -' ■ ■■
~ .
■m
mm
M
im
y
<"* ■' >*
fill
• • jd
7%
m
Am
: V
■ym, •
s*sr
* '
IT*-*
£*%
•M
•&. f
M
: ■ -
. ; ;
V
*
H
m
r
■
■
:
m . i
w* ■■ss&m
\ .
Mm
■: ■ •
gl ,V «.:
i
£
A
a
#
m
m
■ ,
<‘2* ■ €%
as
PIPES
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
p.pe Guaranty
m
ttzMU


High-Class Woodworking Machinery § Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
“ INOECO ” FARM ENGINES.
Kindly let us hare your enquiries.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street Sydney.
BUCYRUvS CO* Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag' Line Excavators.
Sole Agents-WILLIAM ADAMS (Kb COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depreci- surance
Income. Claims, penses. ation. Fund.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1901 .. 412,816 226,783 79,577 106,456
1902 . . 429,263 226,512 81,002 121,749
1903 . . 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 . . 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 . . 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 .. 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,816
1907 .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
1908 . . 488,932 321,453 98,473 69,006
1909 . . 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
■Standard Life business secured.
1910 . . 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1911 .. 622,924 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912 .. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913 . . 627,143 284,568 158,571 10,143 173,861
Some of the mud was bound to stick —for a while,
at any rate. Hence it isn’t surprising that the
income shrank during the past year. On the whole,
the society came out of its troubles very well indeed;
the inspectors appointed by the Vic. Government, as the
result of charges made by ex-employees, found that
the society was “solvent and able to meet all its
liabilities, both immediate and prospective”; that
the investments “are now, and for some years past
have been, made on sound principles” ; and (among
other things) that “the charges of fraud, dishonesty,
mismanagement and incapacity made against the
directors and managers in the petition to Parlia-
ment are wholly unjustified.” But that wasn’t
enough for many of the younger policy-holders. They
were seeking not merely a society capable of paying
the face value of its policies plus past bonus addi-
tions, but one in which future bonuses would be
large; and the new or comparatively new manage-
ment has yet to show that it can give those results.
Hence, having no assurance on that point as re-
gards this office, while having no doubt at all per-
haps about some other offices, many new policy-
holders dropped out, or were only kept in at con-
siderable expense.
Concerning bonuses it is worth while to at least
remember that no society can pay them with the
profits that are passed; and while former good
bonuses give no guarantee of good bonuses in the
future, the absence of good bonuses in the past does
not preclude good bonuses in the 1 future. Unques-
tionably a record of good bonuses helps to pay other
good bonuses, inasmuch as it makes busi-
ness-getting easy and comparatively inexpensive;
and the difference between a heavy and a light ex-
pense rate accounts for most of the difference in
societies’ bonuses. Take, first, this society’s expenses
calculated on the basis of total income: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1904 . . £2O 18 7 p.c. 1909 . . £lB 0 7 p.c.
1905 .. 21 17 10 „ 1910 .. 20 16 4 „
1906 .. 22 8 8 „ 1911 .. 26'16 8 „
1907 . . 22 3 2 „ 1912 .. 29 14 5 „
1908 . . 20 2 10 „ 1913 . . 25 5 8,,
The A.M.P.’s rate on the same basis last year was
£8 13s. 3d. p.c.; and if the Colonial Mutual could
do anything like that, there would be a saving of
about £lOO,OOO a year, and this would more than
treble the amount of actuarial profit available for
distribution among policy-holders. Unquestionably
the present expense rate is much too high to permit
of respectable bonuses. But there is something to be
said in extenuation. For very many years the
Colonial Mutual was in a bog. It had made bad
investments, and its organisation was not good
enough to wipe out that handicap. A new manage-
ment decided that the first thing to do was to get
a move on. New business would not flow ■ in auto-
matically, as it were, there being no past good
results to attract it; so it had to be dragged or
driven in, and that sort of campaign costs money.
Unfortunately, the results so far are not commen-
surate with the outlay. Assuming that the old or
renewal business cost 7 p.c., then the new business
last year cost no less than 172 p.c. of the first-year
premiums; and an office whose new business costs
more than 100 p.c., by this arbitrary method of cal-
culation, isn’t doing very well. However, the Colonial
Mutual has been working under exceptionally diffi-
cult circumstances; and The Bulletin is not pre-
pared to accept its record for the year as a fair
measure of what it can do now that the atmosphere
is clear.
The interest earnings show a decided improve-
ment :
1904 .. £4 1 4 p.c. 1909 .. £4 3 3 p.c.
1905 .. 3 17 11 „ 1910 .. 4 3 10 „
1906 . . 3 18 1,, 1911 . . 4 5 9 „
1907 .. 3 16 9 „ 1912 .. 4 5 11 „
1908 . . 4 1 1 „ 1913 . . 4 8 0 „
Money has been getting dearer; and that, no doubt,
has given the figures their greatest lift. But there s
another factor. Within less than 10 years nearly
£150,000 has been written off the assets, apart
from smaller amounts regularly written off to cover
depreciation of office property; and this, of course,
bumps up the rate shown by the -interest earnings.
The rate is, nevertheless, still low; but that is
largely clue,to the excessive amount which in former
days got into freeholds and leaseholds. This shows
the disposition of the funds now and 10 years ago: -
1903. ,• 1913.
r : — K r A '
Clash and de-
posits .. £228,672 8.1 p.c. £ 192,943 5.2 p.c.
Public securities 340,117 12.0 ~ 701,160 19.1 „
Mortgages . . 1,162,028 41.2 „ 1,433,797 39.1 „
Freeholds, etc. 742,705 26.3 „ 834,403 22.7 „
Other assets . . 349,140 12.4 ~ 508,482 13.9 „
The changes that are being made are distinctly for
the better, «,nd that they are accompanied by an in-
creasing interest rate is all the more to ihr manage-
ment’s credit. Further, to strengthen the ■« position
the society reserves the surplus of £81,09? disclosed
by the actuary. (This is the value of assets in
excess of the amount necessary to provide for all
liabilities under existing policies.) The only quali-
fication is that policies, which mature before the next
distribution will get a' bonus of 1 p.c. for each year
of duration since the' last distribution (Dec.. 1910).
Those which don’t mature will benefit later on.
AccsgENT Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 .. £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 ,3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 .. 11,875 5748 4320 1807
Apart from reserves for unexpired risks and such
like, the funds are now £6379, which represents the
very respectable profits accumulated in this new de-
partment.
Industrial Department.
Total
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1909 .. £3,481 £39 £14,587 £11,145
Paid for Standard business, £22.000 33,145
1910 . . 54,908 3483 70,988 52,708
1911 . . 60,484 6254 66.630 65,108
1912 . . 77,516 7710 62,755 58,057
1913 . . 86,155 9356 53,556 34,814
Things are slightly better here ; but they are still far
from satisfactory. The actual deficit is much more
than £34,814, because that takes no account of the
fund which ought to have been, but hasn’t
been, accumulated towards paying the policies
current. The simple fact is that the society
should have in hand £99,456 towards pay-
ing the policies, and there are other liabilities
amounting to £534; total, £99,990. Against that
debt all the tangible assets the department can show
total £B2ll. The balance of £91,779 is repre-
sented bv a deplorable “asset” called “extension of
organisation account,” and if the lady who sweeps
out the office could gather it all up into her apron,
and deposit it on the haberdashery counter, she
couldn’t buy even a packet of hairpins with it.
The Brisbane Electric Tramways In-
vestment Co.:—
Dividends.
t A : \ Re-
Dec., Profits. Pref. Ord. serves.
1905.. £17,334
£ £ £
1906.. 24,961 5 p.c.= 17,812 2 p.c.= 7,500 16,983
1907.. 32,669 5 „„ 17,812 4„ ~15,000 16,840
1908.. 39,858 5 „„ 17,812 6„ ~22,500 16,386
1909.. 47,977 5 „„ 17,695 8 „ ~30,000 16,668
1910.. 77,014 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~ 30,000 46,026
1911.. 87,705 5 „„ 17,656 8 „ ~30,000 86,075
£75,000 of reserves capitalised.. 11,075
1912.. 56,362 5 p.c.=17,656 8 p.c.=36,000 13,781
1913.. 92,998 5 „ ~17,656 8 „ ~ 36,000 53,123
In 1882 a 14 years’ concession was granted to a
syndicate to run trams in Brisbane, and subsequently
a 25 years’ extension was allowed on condition that
an electric service was supplied. This carries things
on to 1921. Then Brisbane can step in and take
over the outfit by paj ing a fair price for the visible
property required in the business: that is to say,
it isn’t to pay anything for goodwill, disturbance or
aught else that isn’t visible. This public service
shouldn’t, of course, have been passed over to any
private dividend-hunter; but, apart from that, the
arrangement had only one serious fault: it meant in
practice no permanent-way extensions, during the
latter years of the concession especially. For, though
it is true that the public authority would have to
pay for any new line taken over, the co. isn’t likely
to build new ones and be interest out of pocket
while they are under construction, and then hand
them over before the traffic has grown to any size.
This is the snag that some unserved Brisbane sub-
urbs have bumped against, with the result that there
have been constant cries to the Government or. the
municipalities to buy the co. out before 1921 arrives.
But if that is done it means payment for disposses-
sion, and the co., in view of its increasing profits,
is certain to open its mouth wide.
This isn’t the co. which nominally owns the
trams. What it owns is all but a few shares in the
co. which is the nominal owner. The latter co.,
being thus practically a private co., doesn’t publish
accounts, though this co. furnishes a few particulars
about the other’s operations. Out of this data the
following table is carpentered:—
Ex- Divi- Re-
Dec., Receipts, penses. Profits. dends. serves.
1906' ..£141,677 £82,525 £59,152 £50,000 £25,674
1907 . . 159,111 88,489 70,622 57,000 39,296
1908 . . 178,510 94,964 83,546 65,000 57,842
1909 .. 199,263 105,082 94,181 75,000 77,023
1910 .. 222,580 115,695 106,885 106,000 -77,908
1911 .. 253,970 129,284 124,686 110,000 92,594
1912.. 254,838-162,305 92,533 80.000 105,127
1913 .. . 316,244 191.936 124,308 116,000 113,435
Of‘the dividends of £116,000 paid by the co. which
nominally owns and runs the trams this investment'
co. drew £115,922, and £45 came from transfer fees,
etc.; total revenue £115,967, which went as
follows:
Gross revenue .. .. ..£115,967
Less insurance and direction . . 3,900
Net revenue . . .. .. £112,067
Less interest on debentures . . 19,069
Net profit as per Ist table .. £92,998
It is an extraordinary jump above the profit for
1912; but that was the year of Badger’s strike.
Disregarding that year, the movement has, been
remarkably fine. Part of the tremendous difference
between the figures for (say) 1906 and 1913 is
explained by a debenture issue of £450,000. In
the dull days that money was costing just as much as
it does to-day when Brisbane is booming, partly
because of Denham’s borrowing, partly because of
extra-good seasons, and partly because Queensland is
selling itself to the Meat Trust and having a wild
time for which it will have to pay presently. It is
a beautiful thing to have the use of a lot of bor-
rowed money when any old sort of money can earn
you 7 or 8 p.c.; it is the devil when that money
won’t earn its own keep and you have to starve your-
self to keep your creditor’s manger full.
Still, the co. isn’t likely to be worrying about
its £450,000. The debt carries only 4§ p.c., and
something wholly unexpected will have to-happen to
make the capital in this business earn less than 41
p.c. to the end of the chapter. Already, in order to
suck up profit without making the rate of dividend
screechingly high, £75,000 has been handed out to
the ordinary shareholders in shares which collect
8 p.c. ; and now another £150,000 is being offered
to them at par. in -view of the surplus after paying
last year’s dividend, they are not likely to spurn
the offer; if the div. isn’t increased they have pretty
good reason to suspect that it won’t be reduced,
seeing that last year the co. might have paid over
16 p.c. if it had felt that way. Certainly, part of
the surplus profit went into a renewals * reserve;
but the other co.—the one that ostensibly owns the
trams —has fairly large reserves for that and other
purposes. # # .
Wentworth Hotel, Ltd, (Sydney), was
formed in April, 1912, to purchase the freehold of a
well-known city hotel, extend the premises .apd£cnrry
on the business. For goodwill (including' license)
£8750 was paid to the vendor, and £lOBl went in
preliminary exes, payable by the co. The co. thus
started with £9831 of its capital unrepresented by
tangible assets. Subsequent proceedings:—
,-i-f In Reduction
April, Profits. Dividends, of Deficit. Deficit.
1912 . . -t- ni- £9831
1913 .! Nil £3464 6367
1914 . . 1682 Nil 1682 4685
“The unsatisfactory result of the year’s operations
is as disappointing to the directors as it will be to
the general body of shareholders,” the report says;
and the good old §mall-pox scare is blamed for most
of it. But there seems to be something else the
matter. ‘Gross receipts were £37,266, and expen-
diture (including depreciation, but excluding inter-
est) £34,566, leaving a balance of £2700. That
is, the expenditure (excluding interest) was 93 p.c.
of the revenue. Now, according to Starkey and
Starkey, a solid firm of accountants, for the four
years ended December 31, 1911, the gross receipts
were £56,166, and the expenditure (including in-
terest on loans and depreciation) was £46,681, or
83 p.c.; so it now takes 10 p.c. more of the -revenue
to pay expenses, excluding interest, than it for-
merly took to pay them including interest, but
excluding manager’s salary. Yet the management
is the same: the only difference is that Mrs. Mac-
lurean has now the assistance of a Board of Direc-
tors. It seems a fair thing for the shareholders to
ask whether Mrs. Maclurcan isn’t giving the service
she formerly gave (which seems unlikely, seeing
that she contracted to hold at least 4000 shares, and
probably holds many more), or whether the directors
are really the help they ought to be.
No doubt the co. isn’t in exactly the same position
as the vendor was. When the co. was formed in
35,000 shares, the vendor took £16,250 ( £lO,OOO
in shares and £6250 in cash) for goodwill, furniture
and plant; and £18,750 was available towards the
purchase of the premises, which were under offer
for £20,000. It was proposed, besides buying the
freehold, to put another £3OOO into buildings and
£2500 into equipment. This meant, roughly, that
the co. proposed to go into debt to the extent of
£6750, or raise the money by selling some of the
15,000 shares in reserve. As a matter of fact, so
badly has the programme sketched in the prospectus
been departed from, that as at April 30, 1914, the
debt to the banks was £21,329, while liabilities on
trading account amounted to another £5065. Those
who came in on the prospectus had a fair right to
assume that (say) £7OOO would push in ahead of
them for interest; as a matter of fact, £21,329 is
now in ahead of them; and though these creditors
are secured by mortgages, etc., covering every stone
and stick and bottle of the co.’s assets, the average
interest on the average of the liabilities seems to
have been as much as 6 p.c. or thereabouts. The
position from this point of view also is quite un-
satisfactory.
Something over £2500 has been spent during the
year on the “winter garden,” held on a short lease;
and the directors say that this offshoot has been
unprofitable. How much of the poor showing this is
responsible for there are no means of ascertaining.
Apart from that the business ought to be all right.
The connection seems at least as valuable as it ever
was. The whole secret of success or failure in a
concern of this sort lies in itemising—in the ability
of those in charge to put their fingers on the places
where there are losses or leakages. Admittedly the
proposition differs materially from that which the
public bought into in April, 1912; but not so
materially as to render the old results valueless,
given equally good management.
Assurance and Thrift Association,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Life and House Purchase Branch.
Expenses (in- Added
eluding 4 p.c. to
Jan., Revenue. Claims. Dividends). Funds. Deficit.
1910 „ £l3 ->
Mar., Funds.*
1911 .. £1,593 Nil £1323 £270 135
Preliminary exes.,£2 .. .. 133
1912 .. 5,536 Nil 4467 1069 1202
Preliminary exes., £ 14 .. 1188
1913 .. 9,598 £598 5518 3482 4670
1914 . . 11,597 534 6355 4708 9378
Thrift Branch.
Revenue. Claims. Expenses. Funds.*
Mar., 1911 .. £5O £l5 £l2 £22
„ 1912 .. 52 23 11 40
„ 1913 86 51 20 55
„ 1914 .. 98 86 23 44
General Branch.
To Total
Revenue. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.*
Mar., 1912. . £221 £22 £127 £72 £72
„ 1913.. 169 60 84 25 97
„ 1914.. 228 42 145 41 138
*Funds are exclusive of share capital and premium-
capital leserves.
This co. has Dr. George Rennie as chairman and W.
R. Dovey, a well-known actuary, as managing-direc-
tor ; and both of them are citizens of good standing.
Its principal object is to push what is known as
house-purchase insurance, and in that new line, with
no local experience to help either principals or
clients, the quality of the management counts for a
lot. The idea is to give “Father of Twelve,” “True
Liberal” and other estimable persons a chance to
secure an unencumbered home for the missus and
family no matter how early or late the bread-winner
dies. Of course, he could do that before ever house-
purchase insurance was introduced; he could borrow,
say, a thousand pounds on mortgage for 20 years,
with right of earlier repayments, and, simultane-
ously, take out a thousand-pound policy. Still, that
meant two or three transactions, whereas witli
straight-out house-purchase insurance one transaction
covers the lot. Further, straight away on taking out
the policy he can borrow 75 p.c. of the value of the
property to be purchased, and in five years he can
borrow up to its full value. He must keep in force a
policy at least equal to the value of the property.
For the insurance he pays just about the same pre-
mium as he would in any ordinary life office in the
front rank, and for the loan he pays 54 p.c. interest.
The whole or part of the loan may be repaid at any
time. He need not, of course, borrow as soon as lie
insures—he can do that at any time or not at all.
AVlien he does borrow there are no expenses in con-
nection with preparing a mortgage. At the end of
the insurance period, whether it arrives by effluxion
of time or by the death of the policy-holder, the
society takes the insurance money and the beneficiary
takes the property free of encumbrance.
It is quite Conceivable that a man could do better
by going to (say) the Commonwealth Bank for a
loan, at the same time getting insurance cover from
(say) the A.M.P. or the M.L.C. He might even get
a mortgage loan for 5 p.c. instead of 54 p.c. But
he would have some luck to get an advance of three-
fourths of the value of the property, and if he tried
to borrow on his 5-year-old insurance policy he would
have still more luck to get a quarter of its face
value at 54 p.c. On the other hand, while he does
exceedingly well through this society thus far, he
probably gets rather poorer results from a straight-
out insurance point of view. As said just now, the
premiums are moderate and fair; but it isn't the
book premium that matters—it is the net premium ;
that is to say, the premium reduced by the bonus.
The policies of this co. share in profits; they take
from 80 p.c. to 95 p.c. of the total amount divided.
But whether the profits are likely to be as large
as in a bigger concern to which much business comes
practically without asking is another matter. So far,
no bonus distributions have been made, though one
is expected at the end of the current year. The
business man with some means, who doesn’t need to
'borrow to the uttermost penny to secure a home, and
who knows enough about business to get a loan at
rock-bottom interest, should do better than this co.
can do for him. But the system it offers is well
worth the consideration of those who aren’t flush of
either money or business advantages.
It is of the utmost importance that the co.- itself
should be financially strong. It lends 75 p.c. of the
value of a property straight away, and gradually
more up to 100 p.c. when a policy is five years old,
and if there were a sudden slump in real estate the
co. might be left with a lot of securities on its
hands. The greatest danger is that most advances
will be made when, rents being very high, people are
driven to think of becoming their own landlords; and
this almost inevitably means that they buy and
borrow when property values are abnormally high,
too. So far, no doubt, the share capital ( £17,678)
and the capital reserves (premiums on later shares
issued — £1257) give ample protection ; but it ought
to be made quite clear that the balance of uncalled
capital ( £35,355) will be got in as the advances
grow.
The society goes in for various side-lines of insur-
ance, offering sickness and other benefits ; but, as the
figures show, there is not much doing that way.
The' Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Mar., 1910..£5268 8 p.e. =£5625 —£10,064
Sept., 1910.. 9684 11 3-7,,,, 7500 £2184 12,248
Mar., 1911.. 8223 10 „„ 6562 1661 13,909
Sept., 1911.. 9504 11 3-7,, „ 7500 2004 15,913
Mar., 1912.. 9139 11 3-7,,,, 7500 1639 17,552
Sept., 1912.. 9835 11 3-7,,,, 7500 2335 19,887
Mar., 1913.. 8135 10 „ ~ 6562 1573 21,460
Sept., 1913.. 7993 11 3-7,,,, 7500 493 21,953
Mar., 1914.. 8681 11 3-7 ~,, 7500 1181 23,134
The reserves consist of depreciation fund, £lO,OOO ;
dividend equalisation fund, £10,000; and unappro-
priated balance, £3134. The depreciation fund has
not been drawn upon for a good many years past,
and apparently renewals as well as repairs are paid
for out of current earnings and charged to working
expenses. Four years ago the co. owed £774, and
had £25,909 apart from fixed property and plant;
now it owes £943, and has £35,141 outside the pro-
perty account. Meantime the book value of the fixed
property and plant has increased from £121,804 to
£123,956 ; but whether the difference between those
two figures (£2152) represents all the money that
has been put into these assets is not proved. It is
quite possible that a good deal more has been spent
and written off ostensibly against depreciation. Still
there is nothing to show that this is so. On the
contrary, in former years (before the table at the
head of these remarks opened), the co. used to build
up a depreciation fund and then write it off —the last
time this happened was in 1908, when £lO,OOO was
struck off, presumably on the ground that not suffi-
cient provision had been made from year to year.
It may be that the present depreciation fund is being
set up only to be knocked down again in the same
way. If that is necessary, it follows that the pro-
fits set out above are overstated by about £lOOO a
half-year—the average amount added to the depre-
ciation fund. However, this paper prefers to think
they are not overstated. This and the other Mel-
bourne brick cos., which understand one another very
well indeed, ought to have been (and no doubt have
been) enjoying exceptional prosperity during the
building boom; and if they haven’t been laying a bit
by for the long, cold days of the slump, they haven’t
profited by experience. Six years ago, though the
div. had been kept for some time at 10 p.c.,
investors, on their experience, felt so chary about
brick cos. that the shares in this one were still nearly
20 p.c. below par (17s. 6d.).
* * * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Vic-
toria (Melbourne) :
Carried to De-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, ficit.
Feb., 1910 .. £56 4 p.c. = £46 £lO £B3
Aug., 1910 . . 72 5 „ „ 60 12 95
Feb., 1911 .. 72 4 „ „ 50 22 117
Aug., 1911 . . 62 4 „ „ 46 16 133
Forfeited capital . . 18 151
Feb., 1912 .. 57 4 p.c. = 41 16 167
Aug., 1912 .. 53 4| „ ~ 44 9 176
Feb., 1913 . . 41 44 „ „ 40 1 177
Aug., 1913 .. 59 44 ~ ~ 49 10 187
Feb., 1914 . . 60 44 „ ~ 48 12 199
This miniature concern was formed in 1906 under
the wing of the Civil Service Co-op. of Victoria. Its
primary object was to supply Civil Service share-
holders with loans to enable them to make cash pur-
chases in the Stores and thus qualify for the bonus.
But the Melbourne Civil Service is a very sick rela-
tive, and its bonuses (when there are any) are not
attractive; and as the bank’s own dividend is a
mere 44 p.c., it is no wonder that not much progress
has been made. In fact, capital has diminished
somewhat—from £2327 at February, 1913, to
£2142 at the close of the past half-year. At the
same time, however, the number of shareholders has
increased. The original intention has been —wisely,
no doubt —departed from to some extent, and the
co. will now advance the “necessary” for a marriage
license, a tram fare, or anything else approved of
by the Board. Interest is at the rate of 2d. a
pound per month, equal to 10 p.c. per annum. Loans
at the end of February, after providing for bad and
doubtful debts, were £2762, and other assets
amounted to £67. Liabilities, including £125 of
unclaimed dividends (which are forfeited if un-
claimed for three years) and an overdraft of £228,
amount to £438. Practically the motto of the
society now is “Every Civil Service its own Uncle” ;
and if the Victorian service has no more use for an
uncle than this co.’s figures suggest, then it is a very
unusual civil service indeed.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for May:—
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 18.016 46,641 24,552 51/9
Ivanhoe . . . . 20,236 32,960 10,020 32/7
Boulder Perseverance 22,041 22,837 3,202 20/8
Oroya Links . . . . 12,300 13,859 2,500 22/6
Sons of Gwalia . . 13,500 21,266 4,283 31/6
Golden Horseshoe . . 29,084 33,009 2,364 22/8
Kalgurli .. .. 10,860 21,712 9,112 40/-
Lake View and Star 18.703 21,460 3,601 22/11
Yuamni . . . . 9,330 13,908 1,459 29/9
Bullfinch Proprietary 5,878 9,331 4,287 31/9
Queen of the Hills . . 4,054 6,308 2,388 31/1
Mararoa . . . . 2.700 4,881 36/2
South Kalgurli .. 9,804 11,255 1,104 22/11
Fenian . . . . 3,400 9,220 4,669 48/4
Ingliston Consols . . 2,031 3,629 764 35/2
Edna May .. .. 2,255 8,172 5,148 72/5
Mountain Queen . . 3,733 2,645 210 14/2
Menzies Consolidated 2,589 5,123 1,909 40/-
Ida II 1,376 4,364 548 63/5
North Kalgurli . . 574 1,3 2 6 43/1
Golden Ridge . . 2.440 3,256 108 26/8
Ingliston Extended.. 800 1,848 313 46/2
Commodore . . 800 1,215 182 30/4
Corinthian North . . 4,554 3,164 13/8
Associated Northern ) g % 457*
Iron Duke Lease f ’
Loss.
Associated . . . . 11,194 11,479 243 20/6
*lncludes revenue obtained from the treatment of
7416 tons of accumulated tailings. No costs are
given, but the month’s expenditure at the co.’s other
mine, the Victorious, at Ora Banda, totalled £2382.
Great Fingall’s mill was shut down during the month,
but a clean-up of accumulations around the plant
yielded £426. Working costs (including develop-
ment and capital) totalled £7956.
* * * *
Yuanmi (W.A.) is in trouble over con-
tract work. The local union bucked against some
members doing piecework, and expelled them. The
contractors kept on, and, as they flatly refused to
stop, all the other men on and in the mine (with
the exception of the engine-drivers, who belong to
another, union) ceased work. Pressure was put on
the contractors, and Anally they quitted; but, un-
fortunately for the Yuanmi, many of the strikers
have gone to other fields, and the local labor supply
is very limited. Contract work has been barred in
other parts of the Murchison as well as Yuanmi
for some time 'past, and it looks as if the present
attempt to introduce it is doomed to failure.
* * * *
All that is left of the Cosmopolitan
(W.A.) has been bought by a local machinery-dealing
firm for £4OO. This mine produced tons of gold
when in its prime, and paid £130,000 in dividends,
but its rather flat reef went wrong about 1000 ft.
from the surface, and the end soon came. Its
former owner, the co. that formerly bore its name,
is now chiefly interested in Cornish tin and foreign
mining delusions.
* * * *
Mararoa (W.A.) has changed its mind
over Holden’s Find, and decided (backed up, it is
said, by the State) to do a bit more drilling. The
co. has also resolved to diamond drill its Sydney
leases at Norseman. This property was first worked
by the long-defunct Norseman Gold Mines, Ltd.;


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word, with minimum of 15s. (20 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “VIA PACIFIC
_ Daily.
Ordinary.
31
Great Britain ..
Germany
New Zealand
Canada
U.S.A
Argentine, Brazil, )
Chili and Peru /
West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and
Regulations may be -obtained at
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
1/2
31-
-m
2/4
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/8$ . 2/10-1
America and other
Week End
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific,
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
A GOOD INVESTMENT!
DUNLOP
MINING and
ENGINEERING GOODS
CAN ALWAYS BE RELIED ON FOR
QUALITY, WEAR
and SATISFACTION
ANY CLASS OF GOODS MADE TO ORDER
SAMPLES AND TENDERS SUBMITTED.
LISTS ON APPLICATION.
1.. DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
(Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane
Wellington and Christchurch.
Stop Guessing — Know.” —This is the sign that
a business man posted over his desk—he placed it
there because he wanted certain—not uncertain—
answers to his Questions. Do you want certain
answers to your questions ? Do you want to know
if every part of your plant is making profits? Then
examine your pulleys with the profit searchlight—
test them, check their runs —if they are giving but
half-time service. “Pioneer” leather belting will end
all that. Equip your drives with “Pioneer” and
every pulley will run at full speed all the time.
“Pioneer” is made from the centre cuts of flawless
Australian ox hides, which are tanned in our tannery
and built up with best materials and workmanship
in the big “Pioneer” factory. Let our nearest office
help you to stop guessing about your pulley runs.
“Pioneer” is made only by J. C." Ludowici & Son
Ltd., Pioneer Works, 117 York-street, Sydney (opp.
Q.V. Markets), and sold in Victoria by Geo Russell
Pty. Ltd., Flinders-street, Melbourne; in South
Australia by J. McKell, Timpson-street, Port Ade-
laide: in Queensland by Queensland Machinery Co.
Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia by Horace Summers,
Howard-street Perth; in Broken Hill by Geo. C.
Dempster, Argent-street.*
* * * »
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and. by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
* * * *
Efficient grinding is one of the many problems
that mine managers have to solve. The Hardinge
Conical Mills have proved to the Calumet and Hecla
Mining Co. that grinding is not such a difficult
problem ; they have installed 64 of them, and say
“the Hardinge Conical Mill is the mott efficient
grinding machine we have yet gotten hold of.” If
they sa.y this of the mills, it should be worth the
while of mine managers here to inquire about them.
The Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are
the sole representatives for them in the Common-
wealth, and will be glad to forward particulars.* [1
* * * *
Extract from The Policy-Holder, London, Novem-
ber 26, 1913, re the Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society Ltd. :—“Then, too, in another way it
makes a wider appeal than many mutual assurance
societies, its programme of operations including, in
addition to life assurance and annuities, life policies
which include sickness and accident benefits and per-
sonal accident and sickness insurance on the usual
lines, while it also has a young industrial branch—
established about four years ago—in which the usual
activity and push have been manifested, as may be
gathered from the fact that already a business has
been built up represented (in 1912) by an issue of
nearly 40,000 policies for sums assuring over a
million and a quarter sterling.”* [2
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE does not burst when frozen.
Laid under or above ground it gives equally fine
results as a conduit for all kinds of fluids. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York
Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
The Goulburn Municipal Council, after exhaustive
inquiries, have decided to install two 128-b.h.p
“Hornsby” Suction Gas Engines and Plants, as the
motive power for their electric supply (in competi-
tion with all classes of engines and boilers), thus
following the example set by a number of towns in
Australasia and other parts of the world, which have
already installed the “Hornsby,” with highly favor-
able results. Intending purchasers of motive power
should apply to R. Hornsby & Sons, Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.* ' [a
Harringtons Ltd., the Photographic Merchants, of
386 George Street, Sydney, will give the highest
returns for all kinds of residues, large quantities of
jewellers’ sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel,
process worker’s residues, plating baths and any
other materials containing gold, silver or platinum.
Harrington’s assay department can execute assays
for jewellers within two or three hours, and pro-
spectors and others are assured of immediate attention.
All kinds of analytical and metallurgical work can
be executed promptly, and advice given on all
branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy. The
whole of the work is directed by a qualified analyst
and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, London,
Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England, lI.M.
Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Harringtons
can also arrange to send large parcels of sweeps,
residues, ores, etc., direct to Messrs. Johnson & Sons,
London.*
* * * *
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * #
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron, Steel and
Cast Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson Pro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves, Bolts, Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors’ Iron-
work of every description.*
* * * *
Mine managers • when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock & Wilcox,
Ltd.', who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
# * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
• * * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
FOR MOTOR-CAR PARTS.
’Phone
CITY-8332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney. [x
then small parties of miners had a go at it from
time to time, but for some .years .prior to the
Mararoa coming on the scene it had been lying idle.
About £3500 of Mararoa money has so far been
expended in developing and equipping the show, and
mx months’ exemption has just been recommended by
the warden to give the co. time to see where futher
capital can be laid out in boring to the best
advantage.
Hans Irvine and friends have taken a
couple of months’ sampling option on some leases
at the new Pinnacles field on the Murchison (W.A.).
A big formation, from which a parcel of 60 tons
was recently taken and treated for a fair return, is
showmg on the surface, and the local inspector of
mines says a favorable word or two about it.
Again Great Fingall (W.A.) has failed
come U P to expectations. With a loud official
whoop shareholders were promised a profit of £5OOO
a month. Superintendent Hope Nicolson, who appar-
ently was never consulted in regard to the esti-
mate, regretted his inability to do impossibilities, and
got out. The position now is that it will take the
co. all its time to make £2OOO a month, and work
the property'on fair and square lines. Nicolson has
gone to London.
Associated Northern (W.A.) claims to
have improved up to 60s. in No. 2 winze below No. 6
level of the Victorious, and to have met with a
little better stuff in the east drive at No. 7 level.
Assays, however, are likely to be patchy. Sulphide
ore treatment is expected to be in full swing by the
end of October.
Hake View and Oroya’s market rise is
attributed in London to the tall talk indulged in by
Hoover, Govett and others about the improved pro-
spects of the Burma Corporation’s prehistoric mines.
A new lode and a nearly new Board are expected to
make all the difference in the future.
Lady Harriet, at Laverton (W.A.), is to
be taken over by the Mary Mac. Co. this month.
uver £lO,OOO has been dug out since the tributors
got to work last November, and the co.’s royalty
has amounted to something under £l5OO.
*** ' *
Another instance in which London share-
holders did not get what they were entitled to.
At a recent auction the Devon mine and plant, at
Linden (W.A ), forming part of the belongings of
the liquidated Westralia United Goldfields, Ltd.? was
sold for £3OO. Included in the effects were a five-head
null three cyanide vats, a Cassell’s filter, steam
winch, pumps, etc., and several hundred pounds’ worth
°i on™ S t pur f hasers have since been offered
£2OOO for the surface equipment and stores, and
lave been besieged with offers from local prospec-
tors, who are credited with knowing something, to
equal U sharos ltal W ° rk the show them 011
_ * * * 'il «
British B. H. accounts to Dec. 31 last have
wandered back to Australia in their usual leisurely
* \ ey are not of much value, anyway. Net
profits are shown to have been sliding down in this
f rw 10n io?o eC '’r.- 1 , n £61 ’ 837 : Jl,ne ’ 1913 > £50,968;
£46,478. But that slide was due to the
co. Stopping the treatment of zinc “tailings” till the
Minerals Separation plant was ready; and it wasn’t
n^»L tin fi the kst month of the year. Stuff handled
consequently varied as follows:-
rw -n J , Dec.,’l2. June,’l3. Dec.,’l3.
T a ?H^ lle i d ’ " 103 > 710 95,090 109,284
tailings treated, tons.. 49,238 18,909 7,845
. , Mains haft”: Bangadang, Langford’s
Adelong (N.S.W.) show, was severely treated a week
in Melbourne. Scrip tumbled from £42
J.vin if ’ T but . th S re was su PP°' t from somewhere out-
side_ of Langford, and the shares are up to £26
wwn r r °i e occurence is in mineralised veins
which Langford and his advisers believe to he wider
and more persistent than the enemies of the show
c T ht „ f ° r ’ Certainly, Cockle Creek has
ParCel L of 6oz ' and 7oz - ore . but this only
establishes quality and not quantity. However the
co. has secured a five-head mill eight miles from
the mine, and a few crushings will test the value of
the thing in bulk. The weakness will probably lie
in the shortness of the shoots.
* * *
After great toil Baker’s Creek (N.S.W )
a , Prftof £326 for the half-year. Nothing
but the sale of the mullock tip to a gold-recovery co.
and revenue derived from tributors’ crushings enabled
the concern to carry on without once more tapping
the shareholders It is now proposed to open up the
shaft reef at 1700 ft. vertical, and prospect various
nea u -^ he sou (sern boundary on Smith’s reef.
£“ e New HHlgrove in its day raised some rich stone
th e boundary ;so there may be a chance
thereabouts. But hope for the future has long hung
on the filmiest of threads. s B
* * *
Though the season is droughty out that
way, Occidental (N.S.W.) is very cheerful. Its 60
head are crushing half-ounce stone, and there is an
SU ?i Pl v y ,° f * T he cyanide plant is also
at work, and between them they are getting 2500 z. a
W u'v. Cossan has been taken 6ft. wide on the west
waU beyond the original workings in No. 1 level •
value, lOdwt. The lowest level (No. 6) is providing
ala ff e tonnage: No. 1 lode is 10ft. wide, and worth
Bdw+ t- -WW per ton > No. 2, up to 31ft. wide, worth
Bdwt. 15gr. No better block of stone than this
between No. 5 and No. 6 levels has ever been worked
in the mine.
* * * *
New Burragorang (N.S.W.) is providing
its very optimistic backers ■with encouraging reports
Ihe mine is making small but fairly regular ship-
ments of ore, and the secretary acknowledges a
cheque for £578 for tons. The value has
improved to £25 per ton, in comparison with £lB
per ton, which was the average for the first 58
tons. The stopes throughout the mine carry a nar-
row streak of ore, and it isn’t by any means all
oi shipping grade.; hence reserves are small. The
most hopeful thing about the mine is that its levels
are shallow compared with those of its neighbor, the
Yerranderie. But that doesn’t necessarily mean
profits: it may merely mean that the co. has to
spend a lot of money to get down as deep as the
Yerranderie. In the early days of the Barrier there
were scores of mines, especially at Day Dream
and Purnamoota, with rich, narrow seams; and
Broken Hill itself had one in the Consols mine. The
Consols was kept going on English money for over 20
years, and paid exactly one dividend; and not one
of the others returned to shareholders as much as
paid for the newspapers they bought to look up the
dividend notices.
Newcastle-Wallsend proceeds to make the
new issue of shares foreshadowed here a couple of
months ago. It is understood that £loo',ooo will
be capitalised—which will mean a revaluation of
assets and some writing up. Meantime the co. has
been boring ground near the Bellbird, on the South
Maitland field, and satisfactory results have been so
far obtained. Further inquiry into the seam is being
made by a small prospecting shaft.
W. B. Jacoway, an American* is the
latest addition to the technical and administrative
staff that the B. H. Prop, is getting together for its
iron and steel works at Newcastle. He arrived this
week to take charge of the refining department. The
work is being hurried along; 5000 tons of material
is now on its way in. Meantime the co. is raising
more of the necessary wind by £600,000 of 6 p.c.
mortgage debentures, to be issued at 97. The Com-
monwealth Bank takes a hand in the underwriting,
making itself responsible for £200,000.
* * * *
No astonishing information has been given
to B. R! Wise, K.C., sitting as a Commission to
inquire generally into conditions of labor in the
Broken Hill mines. The investigation has turned
off into all sorts of byways ; thus the Commissioner
put in half of one day inspecting some typical miners’
boarding-houses. The most general attack made on
anything has been on the night shift (midnight to
8 a.m.), which has already been abolished in some
mines. Curiously enough, while the coal-miner is
utterly opposed to the “afternoon” (3 to 11) shift,
the average Broken Hill miner , seems to rather like
his “afternoon” shift (4 to midnight) ; vet he is
sending the Maitland men a first £lOOO towards
their strike pay, along with an intimation that thev
will not touch a job if it is in any way connected
with “scab” coal. The Broken Hill men, partly to
make good the £lOOO withdrawn from the funds,
have imposed a levy of 6d. per week for the strikers —
and hang the anti-strike Arbitration law!
* * * *
The Queensland Government has sent the
Chillagoe Co. a reply to the latter’s proposal that
the State should buy the co.’s railway, paying for it
20 times the average amount of the net earnings for
the past five years. The answer is understood to be
colder than midwinter in Invercargill.
Recently 3$ tons of Mount Morgan ore
(wotth 665.) have been furnaced with one ton of
Many Peaks flux (worth 205.). The high proportion
of flux explains the anxiety of the co. to secure a
pyritic proposition in Papua.
* * * *
Brilliant Deeps, Charters Towers, has
cleaned up 367 tons for £1439, so the yield is
improving again. With its workings down to 2700 ft.
vertical, this mine is the second-deepest on the
Towers; its neighbor, the Brilliant Extended, is eat-
ing its withered heart out at 3000 ft. For five months
of this year the Extended crushed 7915 tons for
£22,700 ( £2 17s. 3d. per ton), and the Brilliant
Deeps 3002 tons for £10,648 (£3 10s. lOd. per
ton). In both mines costs are high, mainly because
the levels have to be ransacked for irregular shoots
of payable ore. The trouble with regard to Charters
Towers is that its reefs are cursed with barren zones
as they go down, and the Extended at 3000 ft. hap-
pens to be in one. Whether there’s another enrich-
ment still deeper only time can tell.
Charters Towers is giving a few very
lucky tributors a good time. Hooper and party, at
Mills United, crushed 64 tons for £ll9B, and sold
the sands for £474. This lot came from above No.
5 west level. The vein was from 3in. to 20in.
thick, and the average return was over £26 per ton.
It is said that each man earned over £37 per week
—which is something of a set-off against the time
when they won’t earn 37d. The East Mexican, ad-
joining Mills United, took out some remarkably rich
crushings near the boundary a few years since, but
neither co. has been able to get on the track of the
shoot above No. 4. ,
* * * *
From up near Cape York: Annan River
Tin Mining Co. doesn’t know whether its luck is in
or out. After deciding that pumping machinerv
must be installed, the arrival of the gear was the
signal for the wettest wet-season known in the
Cook district for many years. Teamsters specially
introduced from Cairns have brought only about
seven tons out of an available 300 tons since the
latter end of March. —The Home Rule Co. has re-
cently opened a decomposed lode, which looks very
promising. Already a face of about 30ft. has been
opened, carrying good values of coarse and fine tin.
Some of the tin is coarse; one slug of 871 b. and
another of 421 b. were washed out. There is plenty
of fall for the tailings, so the elevator used in the
lower ground can be dispensed with.—Something has
boomed the sandalwood market. The wood is quoted
at £36 per ton delivered in Cooktown, with the
result that nearly all the prospectors of the Penin-
sula have dropped the pick for the axe, and are
scouring the district for the wood. There is a
bastard sandalwood growing in the central and
south-west, but, although it has some of the smell
and appearance of the real thing, it is valueless;
hence the new chum at the game of sandalwood-
getting had better be careful.
Mitchell, the man who has put most
energy into the sapphire business at Anakie (Q.), is
more or less drawing out and going south. Nobody
knows exactly the value of the gems picked out last
year, but the official estimate is something over
£43,000. The field was building up a very respectable
Australian trade in cut sapphires, when synthetic
sapphires pushed themselves in ; and even an expert
cannot always tell the difference between the stone
made by nature and the other compounded according
to the same recipe by the scientist. As the scientist’s
gems are saleable at about one-third the price of
those produced in the old-fashioned way, the Anakie
“scratchers” and “gougers” begin to take a very
gloomy view unless they can get an import duty on
the “imitation” stones.
* * » *
New Ghum Goldfields’ balance-sheet
shows the best side of Bendigo mining. The yield
from 6985 tons was 62580 z., which with pyrites
yielded £25,386. Of that amount £17,600 went to
shareholders! This means that working costs were
only 10s. 4d. per ton, and as mining was carried
on at a depth of 1076 ft. and 1176 ft. the record is
One to appeal to the expert in mining work. The
bulk of the stone milled came from the stopes above
the No. 1 intermediate level under 1076 ft., where
only a little of the shoot remains to be beaten out.
The future will decide whether the rich stone carries
down in the eastern leg to No. 2 intermediate level
and to the main level below. Recent yields hint at
this, and W. J. Richards, the man responsible for
the mining work, hasn’t a doubt on the point. But
bis optimism isn’t echoed everywhere around the
Beehive.
* * * *
New Specimen Reef, Daylesford (Vie.),
hauled down its flag after paying a solitary dividend
The lesson taught by the old British co. was that
the gold did not live below the No. 4 level, but it
has cost present shareholders big calls to be sure of
it. Gold averages about 4Jdwt. This is a little
bc-low the pay line there, though at Berringa, mining
at greater depth, the same grade stone would bring
in dividends. Some of the workers on the claim
would have liked a tribute, but the steely crowd
preferred to sell out and pocket a final liquidation
dividend.
The row over the election of directors of
the Cathcart Central, Ararat, hasn’t stopped develop-
ments at the mine. The crab-hole which cut off the
gold north and round the shaft has been passed
at No. 3 south-west branch. A bump in the reef
showed up as a change, and the gold seems to have
lodged on the side of the high ground. One clean-up
gave soz. to the fathom, and then driving along the
run of gold yielded 78oz. from four fathoms. The
starting of No. 4 branch drive 260 ft. south means
that this run of wash will be tested lower down the
gutter. If it is picked up sparks will fly. Costs,
which had been £3 3s. Id., have jumped to
£4 175., and although wash values moved from
£8 3s. 2d. to £9 4s. 9d. per fathom, dividends
during the half-year fell from £25,000 to £lO 000
though cash assets went up by £5600. So ’with
much hard development to do, manager Browne more
than kept his end up. What the mine plans tell is
that the gutter is narrower than was believed ; while
the manager’s report shows the run of gold to be
irregular. Where picked up off No. 5 rise down the
lead it is only 50ft. wide. The drive down the gutter
can be discounted, for, as Browne says, these often
unwittingly keep on the rich stuff. What will make
or mar the market will be the crosscut off the next
rise 260 ft. down the gutter.
Along with a “report as to the encouraging
prospects of the mine,” Great Poseidon (Vic.) share-
holders have just received a circular, signed by the
secretary, “unofficially” informing them that “a
strong syndicate has been formed, consisting of Mel-
bourne business men, whose object is to buy up at
the lowest price from weak holders all the shares
possible, including any that may be forfeited for
nonpayment of calls.” As he doesn’t think the
shares will have much market value till the shaft is
bottomed (this is the claim where the freezing pro-
cess is being tried, with Newman Reid, late of the
Glacianum, in charge of the freezing), the secretary
expects that the syndicate will get a good big parcel
together; and, apparently out of pure love for his
fellow-man, the unofficial official offers to put holders
in touch with the syndicate. If the holders want to
sell, well and good ; if not, “there is no doubt that
1 can arrange that you should participate in the pro-
fits of the syndicate on reasonable conditions.”
Naturally, being a buyer, the syndicate wants holders
to sell; but if holders won’t do what the syndicate
wants them to do, it will show its appreciation and
gratitude by sharing its profits with them. Lots of
people wonder how men make money on the Ex-
change. This will explain it to them.
» » * *
In 1897 the Mount Jukes Prop, was
formed to work a lease for copper on Mount Jukes,
eight miles from Mount Lyell (Tas.). A wild and
woolly boom ensued, and over 200 sections were
pegged, of which only 10 are now held and only one
is worked. Jukes Comstock, King Jukes, North Jukes
Jukes Consols, Imperial Jukes, Crown Jukes, Queen’
King, Crotty, Lake, Hal and Sailor Jack Jukes were
all floated. Some cos. dug trenches, others drove
adits for 60ft. and stopped, one sank an inclined
shaft, one put in a tunnel 10ft., £25,000 was spent
by the Crotty group on one mine, and all of them
issued elaborate scrip and decorated balance-sheets.
The boom was a welter of high share values, low
copper contents, bad or no management and lying
reports. The neighboring Darwin field was maltreated
by ignorant alleged mining men in the same manner,
and in consequence a really promising copper-mining
district was strangled. An excellent recent mono-
graph by Loftus Hills, assistant Government Geologist
of Tasmania, gives meticulous details of this aban-
doned field of mixed metals. Hills concludes that the
ore deposits will continue to depths which would
enable mining to be conducted on a considerable scale.
Such ancient assays as he could obtain gave a
metallic content which may be regarded as very
encouraging. In all, various parcels of ore sent to
the Mount Lyell Co. amounted to 30 tons, with an
average value of copper 5.38 p.e., silver 6.99dwt. and
gold 4.o3dwt. Most of the ore bodies contain copper,
silver and gold, though the relative proportions of
the three metals vary. The notable feature of the
ore is the relatively high content of gold. Another
promising feature is that there are no metals present
which will have any deleterious effect on these three
metallic products. Owing to the excessive alumina
content of the mixed ores it will be necessary to
eliminate it, and Loftus Hills suggests that flotation
would be a probable solution of the difficulty. Should
a flotation process prove successful when applied to
low-grade silicious and aluminous ores, he predicts
a prosperous future for the deserted field. The ores
would have to be concentrated into a high-grade
copper ore to save the prohibitive cost of freight to
the Lyell smelters.
* * * *
Dr. Basedow, the Adelaide geologist, has
made a rapid traverse of the territory between Kings-
ton (S.A.) and the Glenelg River (Vic.), and likes
the surface indications of oil. The great feature
of the south-eastern system of tertiary rocks, Base-
dow thinks, is the undoubted folded nature of the
strata. The other conditions associated with oil
deposits are (1) the intercalation of impervious
beds of rocks; (2) the presence of porous rocks
beneath; (3) ample fossil remains; and (4) brown
coal or lignite. All these and other requisite fea-
tures are present, and Basedow is accordingly satis-
fied that deep boring with the latest machinery will
reveal the existence of petroleum in the domes of the
anticlines down below. The presence of bitumen
on the beaches between Kingston and the Glenelg
River is accepted as pointing to the near presence of
petroleum, because the solid bitumen could not have
been floated ashore from distant petroleum deposits.
Fi'qm the Northern Territory : A new tin-
field, just found about 12 miles from Brock’s Creek,
is said to look most promising. It has several ad-
vantages, being close to the railway, and with good
water. On at least one claim there is 30 per cent,
tin near the surface. But the field will need careful
handling to preserve it from Chinese., who have
ruined nearly all the formerly good mines of the
Territory by pig-rooting for rich patches and then
leaving them in far too dangerous a state for anyone
else to enter.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the suspension of mining
in Mexico, on account of the war, the imports of
foreign lead into England during the first four
months of the year were 77,265 tons, as against
73,507 tons in the corresponding third of 1913, and
69,006 in 1912. This indicates (1) a decreased con-
sumption in the United States, where trade condi-
tions generally are unsatisfactory, and (2) a largely
increased out-turn from mines elsewhere. On the
figures it looks as if lead might have a difficulty in
maintaining its present position.
Of Australia’s output of 11,729,775 'tons
of coal in 1912, N. S. Wales was responsible for
9,885,815 tons, or 85 per cent, of the total.
Country B.: Depends on the articles of
association. Get a copy and see if they say von are
entitled to a balance-sheet.


✓
C *1 <| V l/r'cliss
HEERIKu
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
FARMER’S
CASH BONUS SALE
NOW PROCEEDING.
Saves every Cash Buyer 10 per
cent,., 2/- in the £, in addition
to Sweeping Reductions.
Sale Catalogue sent Post Free
to Country Patrons.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY
BUCHANAN’S
Black ®, White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, June 29, 1914.
My Deak Artni, —
Did you notice that Lord Chelmsford has
stepped into the boots of the late Duke of
Argyle, as Chancellor of the most noble order
of Michael and George, etc.? This gives
him an honorary billet in which one ot the
perquisites is Court Influence. Chelmsford
is likely to play the game, and quite unlikely
to throw out the name of any “Colonial”
persons Mrs. Chelmsford doesn’t like—a long
list. Still, he can give the order of the
sack to a highly-recommended beggar for a
knighthood or other gaud, if he chooses to
use his power, as his is the Last Word to
reach the King's Ear.
The habitual Mayor of Auckland (M.L.),
solicitor C. J. Parr, caught a recent C.M.G.-
ship while he was here on a holiday. . Before
returning to his sea-girt city, last week, he
was interviewed as to the relative merits of
Sydney and Melbourne. This ancient theme
has been embroidered in many colors, and
grows threadbare with hard wear. The
alleged “wickedness” of Sydney, which breaks
the Sabbath with the shrill matin song of
newsboys, and the sacrosanct character of
Melbourne, which only reads Tiie Bulletin
and “Hymns, Ancient and Modern” on Sun-
days, were tactfully alluded to by our late
visitor.
Marie Narelle has resumed her own good
name of Molly Ryan when she warbles in
the U.S.
Norfolk Island, which has been Governor
Strickland’s pet hobby, is now passing into
the Commonwealth pigeon-holes. The little
green isle is said to have had more life
shaken into its products, under the person-
ally-conducted rule of the present N.S.W.
Governor —who has a trick of looking for
work that drives his Young Gen demen to
tears —than some of its lotus-eaters cared
about. Now, they can turn over and have
another sleep, while Melbourne clerks tie
yards of red tape round “Re Norfolk Island.”
Coffee has put on something of a spurt under
the recent administration. Just now a flour-
ishing coffee plantation in the isle is chang-
ing hands from its former owner, Mr. Water-
house. to one Mockbell, a handsome Turkish
.expert in the retail business.
Captain Robins, of the Governor’s-In-At-
stcndance department, is on leave for a few
weeks. His address, most mornings in the
■week —from 10 a.m.—is The Glaciarium,
where his long legs perform clever antics on
ithe skates.
Now that the offer of the Eadith Walker
■chateau, Yaralla, has been hurriedly
accepted, the rush to get a roof here for
•G.-G. Ferguson shows weak patches. In
liis haste, Prime Minister Cook had no time
to look the gift house in its doorstep, or its
other equivalent to teeth. The distance
from town (about 81 miles over one of the
worst roads this side of Jericho) can be
partly circumvented by a water trip to and
from town. But the ordinary loyal liege
who doesn’t own either a launch in which
to voyage elegantly by the river, or a motor
to have its axle broken by road, will have
to hire a ’bus or strong spring-cart, if he
wants to see the Ferguson in his cairn at
Concord. . Plence, much dissension amongst
the said lieges. Some of them hint that the
road might be repaired and put into first-
class order. But it is contrary to all pre-
cedent to repair a Sydney suburban road,
save by shovelling loose road-metal on it
here and there, or leaving boulders lying,
n round loose, or digging a big hole and
dropping dead cliffs and old precipices into
it.
The size of the Walker chateau being
against its chance of housing that unbroken
link with the Past, a Lev6e, the Ferguson
is casting about for some building available
for hire and large enough to contain a
Levee. Feelers have been gently put for-
ward as to whether there is any hope of
securing empty old Government House for
the fray—which fray is a two hours’ pro-
cession of cocked hats and plain citizens.
But the Macquarie-street chalet, which now
flaunts its naked sides beyond the graves
of the slaughtered fig trees, is unlikely to
break its tryst with housemaids’ brooms.
The Town Hall is the next suggestion.
Probably that municipal sarcophagus will
be bribed for one afternoon, so that the local
liege may burst his hands into new gloves
and shake the Scottish paw in welcome.
Some person has suggested to me that
a big sheep or cattle station about Dandaloo
should be bought for his Excellency, the wool
and beef and hide and horn profits to be an
addition to his salary during his term of
office, and that the Levee should be held in
the shearing shed.
Mrs. Syd Hill and Miss Greville are
bustling off to Java this week, and later on
go to Europe by that route. Mrs. Hill’s
late husband was a brother of Mrs. Bart
Cooper.
The golden-haired S. Australian, Percy
Grainger, is still one of the minor idols
of the music-loving section of the British
Peerage. After a provincial concert he is
frequently caught and hand-fed by an adja-
cent Marchioness, with Mamma Grainger as
chaperon. At a recent affair of the kind
in Kent, Rudyard Kipling’s square-built
figure and bullet head were on view amongst
a coterie of Percy’s lady admirers, who
included the most handy Viscountess, a
Baroness or two. various lesser titles, and
a Marchioness in her prime.
Miss Garrett, a very brainy young woman
in the N.S.W. Public Mental Construction
Department, has been snapped up, or com-
mandeered, or busliranged in holy matri-
mony by a Scotch Professor in the Land of
Cakes and Kilts. The Sydney schoolmarm,
who was a forceful Voice in the Black-
friars’ training college for teachers, went
to Britain for a trip a while ago. Prof.
Mackie, amongst other lines of introduc-
tion, gave the attractive lady dominie a
letter to his special chum, an Edinburgh
don. Miss Garrett came back to Sydney to
break the news of her permanent engage-
ment to the aforesaid pedagogue. Now
she. is packing up for the Scottish Sabbath,
amidst a whirl of farewell buns and presen-
tations from fellow teachers. A pendant of
Australian topaz from the latter was hung
on her neck at a gathering at Blackfriars
the other afternoon. It was surrounded by
regrets at her forthcoming departure.
The annual ball in aid of the Mater
Misericordise Hospital for Women and
Children at North Sydney, is booked for
July 9. The Town Hall will be the place.
The committee is egged on to special efforts
this year to make the dance a big financial
boom. The authorities are scraping every
copper together to build a new General Hos-
pital on the Willoughby-road. So 350 per-
sons have sworn to appear in fancy dress —
always a source of joy to the gallery, which
tries to guess whether George Washington
is Mary of Scotland, and why Boadicea isn’t
Henry of Navarre. Every seat in the over-
hanging menageries in the Town Hall is
likely to be booked in a few days, so intend-
ing applicants for a municipal chair will
have to hurry to the ticket office. Mrs. P.
Leahy is hon. organising shepherdess.
Maud Allan is a linguist of considerable
tongue-power. So she can give you a saucy
back answer—if you don’t like her notion of
Salome and the Baptist’s dome of thought—
in three or four foreign languages.
Portia Geach is going to show water colors,
decorations and etchings, in Anthony Hor-
derns’ gallery this week. Mrs. Chief Justice
Cullen opens the show on Thursday after-
noon (July 2).
The death of the Sid Walfords’ eldest
daughter the other day was due to an
acute attack of the subtle fiend —appendi-
citis. Miss Walford had been on a few
weeks’ visit to friends in the Inverell dis-
trict when the Enemy marked another Nice
Girl for his own. She was operated on one
Wednesday, and died on the following Fri-
day.
Mrs. Baronet Cooper is going to turn on
extra music at the Dolls’ Carnival in our
Town Barn next October. The vestibule is
to be coaxed into a concert hall for the
occasion, and the lady will engage the
artists at her own expense. The Coopers
remove their presence and their enormous
income from their native town at the end of
the year, and Mrs. Britannia will send her
tax collector along to welcome them back
to the free breakfast table of Britain.
Dorothy King, who returned from the
U.S. to stay with Auntie Spencer Brunton
in this metropolitan kennel, is engaged. The
engagement was “arranged,” as they say
in court chronicles, on the voyage back to
the other side of the globe, at the terminus
of the girl’s stay in N.S.W. Probably the
arrangement had been hovering in view be-
forehand, as the lucky man (his name is
Sharp) was guest at the Charles Marsdens’
in Bowral last summer. Mrs. M. is also
auntie to Dorothy King.
Another British institution is falling
heavily to the floor, and a London corre-
spondent drops in a line on the passing of
the butler. That autocrat is now dismissed
by thrifty persons who have made a pile in
soap or beer, as a spendthrift who tyrannised
over a timid missus, bullied the other servants
and reserved the best champagne for him-
self. It is quite possible that the English butler
will ultimately be reduced to working for
his daily under-cut of sirloin.
The Women’s Horticultural Guild is get-
ting its muscle up in the matter of stamping
round open-air shows that relate to some
portion of it, some day, going somewhere
on the land. Saturday afternoon’s stampede
—about 50 strong—was arranged by Mrs.
McDougall. of the baby Guild’s Gordon
centre. Hon. organising secretary, Miss
Brace, put her best foot forward at the
same fresh air party. A pruning demon-
stration was kindly supplied gratis, on his
own premises, by Mr. Mackenzie, who owns
a small acreage of fruit-trees near leafy
Chatswood. When the horticultural ladies
had left their impressive footprints all over
the damp sod, and convinced each other that
they couldn’t prune an apple tree with a
tin-opener, a fish-knife or an alderman’s axe,
they retreated in good order on the Mac-
kenzie house. Mrs. Mac, and a tall daughter
or two, nobly volunteered to fill the invaders
with hot tea on the spot. The Guild re-
moved its presence at a late hour in the
afternoon, greatly elevated by its efforts to
go on the land with a hairpin and a pair
of clippers.
Pianist Harold Bauer is beating Borwick’s
record at the piano, by reason of a more vital
thump on the keys, and a physique that
leaves him fresh at the end of a big perform-
ance such as Schumann’s “Carnival.” On
Saturday night our Town Barn throbbed
with the joyous sounds Bauer knocked out
of an unusually fine concert grand. He
looks like something in the wool trade, in a
big way of business, till he gets into action.
Then he becomes a whole musical gale, with
cyclonic bursts of chords, and tiny zephyrs
of melody tripping up and down, till the
creaking shoes of the late arrivals goad him
to a sudden full stop. The audience at the first
performance was not so good as it is going
to be this week. Bunty’s Scotch accent at
the Royal, and the rebound after Elman, kept
away some of the usual concert fiends. The
musical Justice Ferguson and his wife went
to the first Bauer affair. Mrs. Tertius
Holdsworth brought tall Florence Brennan
along (both were coated to their heels against
the evening dew). Mrs. Bart. Cooper brought
her son (who has an ear for music and a
nose like the Iron Duke of Waterloo). And
swarms of professionals rushed the beginning
of Bauer’s mighty attack on the local piano.
The frenzy of the modern dance, which
is varied by kangaroo leaps in the air, is
still careering with unabated success in the
Salon de Luxurious. Sydney, which never
had a first-rate dance hall before, for public
use, is rushing in herds to hop and sup
together under the Imperial dome of lantern
shaded lights. Our Best People caper round
to the seductive melodies of an orchestra
under “Billy” Romaine, which would gal-
vanise life into a mummy—if it hadn’t been
too tightly bandaged by some officious early
Egyptian.
J. C. Fitzpatrick goes off to Java in the
Iloutman on July 18, as overlord of the
N.S.W. exhibits at the Samarang Show.
This will be torn open in August by the
Dutch Governor of those sunny shores. Hol-
land is sending some important samples of
its industries to Samarang, to be packed up
later for the Panama fuss at ’Frisco, where
the Dutchmen will have their own court.
N.S.W. and Westralia are the only Aus-
tralian States to advertise themselves at
Samarang. The Federal Government held
off, and very wisely. The Javanese don’t
want our wool and meat and coal. They
are rice and fish eaters, dressed in cotton,
and they burn scraps of charcoal. They
don’t want our timber, and, besides, we have
none to spare. We don’t want to send them
our gold and silver; all these things are
wanted to pay interest on our public debt.
And why advertise ourselves and our wealth
among cheap, profitless brown folk, and
rouse them to fury about their exclusion
from Australia? J. C. Fitzpatrick ought
to be recalled in haste. He has gone to do
what the prophet denounced Hezekiah for
doing—to show our treasures to the alien
out of mere unpayable vanity.
The Bulletin’s invaluable “Hop” has
been enjoying, amongst other diversions of
his American tour, a glimpse of a Young
Women’s Christian Association in his former
town of Toledo. The Toledo Daily Blade,
which intei’viewed “Hop” during his stay,
mentions that, after 44 years’ residence
elsewhere, the famous cartoonist returned to
find Toledo’s population had grown from
15,000 to 200.000. “I had lunch to-day with
a niece of mine, the daughter of a late sol-
dier brother. She is a bachelor maid and
lives in an apartment house occupied by
unattached women. So we lunched at a
neighboring institution —the Y.W.C.A. It is
promoted by women, but apparently popular
with both sexes. The meals are conducted
on the Help Yourself plan. You help your-
self to a tray about 2ft. square, as you enter
the dining-hall, and place upon it the tools
you require, knives, forks, etc. I watched
imy niece, who knew the ropes, and chose
vegetable soup, a portion of meat pie, and a
piece of huckleberry ditto, by way of dessert.
We then passed on to tables, the helpers
giving us ‘chits’ for the amount. I could
hardly keep a straight face as I followed my
niece, fearing that my tray might spill its
contents down her neck, or ruin the costume
of some female potentate of the establish-
ment. Both sexes seemed to take their food
seriously, if not sadly. I must say it was
of excellent quality, and the novelty of the
experience to me added piquancy to the
meal.”
H. N. Southwell sends a hurried remark
or two about the moving-on quality of a
London crowd. He quaintly claims that this
persistent exercise habit is responsible for
the old city’s health statistics, which might
be worse, yet might be a good deal better.
(N.B. Those who die of too much Thames
Embankment and starvation in that over-
grown town are too depressing to mention.
Anyhow if they continued to move on after
death they might revive.) “Personally,”
says Southie, “I prefer the moving crowds
to the stationary buildings, and I pass hours
in the streets of London, seeing life and
dodging motors. The motor-’bus is here in
thousands. So they keep on moving all the
time, while the public hop on and off, and
perform astounding athletic feats. Women
and girls laden with parcels jump on the
step and cling to the rail. If they are not
quite safe there is always the gripping arm
of the watchful conductor ready to circle
waists of any age and circumference. The
variety of neat boots thus offered to the pub-
lic gaze is beyond calculation. I go often
to Covent Garden, thanks to Madame Melba’s
kind entrtie, and heard Destinn and Caruso
there last night, with Spencer Clay as my
companion. It wrns a night to long remem-
ber !”
Harold Bauer, in spite .of his Teutonic
name, is English, and little Mrs. Bauer also
belongs to the British Isles.
The South Sydney Hospital balled this
year at the Concordia Hall, and as upwards
of 400 were there, it will be able to continue
its good work of body-repairing a while
longer. The Joynton Smiths were present
(lie is something large in connection with
the hospital, and an M.L.C. in his spare
time) ; also ex-Premieress McGowen, and a
few of the family, several Denison Millers,
Health Minister Fred Flowers, and a detach-
ment of nurses in the white uniforms of their
business moments.
Mischa Elman’s farewell to Sydney (till
he returns to collect another bag of gold
after his Maoriland tour) was a whirling
scene of enthusiasm. Even the long-haired
tribe, which usually chatters when the other
fellow is getting the limelight, held its peace
during the huge Beethoven concerto. The
mighty Elman, who is about sft. nothing in
his. socks, was bothered with a riotous fiddle
string. This broke violently in one of his
busy moments. The audience didn’t worry
while the orchestra kept on sawing off its
little bit under conductor Bradley. Mischa
clutched a Reserve, and went on with his
theme while first-fiddler Staell reverently
turned the wounded Strad over on its back,
and Mowat Carter tried to apply first aid.
The Handel Sonata in E Major was a
majestic contribution to the evening’s tri-
umph of mind over catgut. Handel had the
instincts of an archbishop when he attacked
harmony, and this sonata gives the suggestion
of a choir practice in the distance.
The recent musical matinee in aid of the
Woolloomooloo Day Nursery filled the King’s
Hall with this season’s best millinery. Mrs.
ltobb, a strenuous committee dame, opened
the programme with the famous Moonlight
Sonata, and drove it before her on the piano,
while two-thirds of the company stamped
into their seats, and walked all over the
Moonlight—as supplied by Beethoven and
Mrs. Robb. Various other performers did
their best, and when an accompaniment was
required it was gracefully supplied by Mrs.
Cyril Monk. Mrs. McMorran also assisted
by lifting up her voice, and may be allowed
to escape, with a caution, for her rendering
of Tosti’s “Somewhere a Voice is Calling.”
The Admiralty lady promised to be present,
and was probably surrounded by bonnets in
the congested front seats. ' Mrs. Alfred
Backhouse, who takes a live interest in the
Woolloomooloo Nursery, Mrs. Carlyle
Smyth (a bird of passage), Miss Margaret
Harris, who looks like a whole committee
and a church dignitary, and little Mrs. Mal-
colm Stephens were in the thick of the
crush.
What a wonderful mushroom growth of
clubs, circles and associations for every-
thing under the moon is springing up in
that huge anthill by the Thames. The
United Empire Circle of the Lyceum Club
seems to be the descendant of the Austral
Club, which Margaret Baxter used to run.
Anyhow, the same list of names that was
always advertised at the old haunt for Aus-
tralasian clubbed (not sandbagged)
females in London, is rushed into print at
every tea-spread where the Circle preens its
feathers.
This maligned city has herds of women
dress reporters who can, and do, go un-
molested about their business at all hours
up to midnight. Many of them live in
suburbs, and walk from tram or train to
their domestic lair over lonely roads that
would send Mr. Bates’s timid friends into
hysterics. The suburban dog chasing the
next-door cat is the most alarming spectacle
one lone woman of my acquaintance has
ever seen after 14 years’ experience of this
work. I did have my bag and purse once
snatched out of my careless hand. But the
event happened on Lambton Quay, Welling-
ton (M.L.) about five o’clock in the after-
noon. And the police didn’t arrest anybody.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORLAN.


The 3M H.P. New Hudson
MODEL 3a—COUNTER-SHAFT DRIVE
) NEW J I HUDSON
The
Latest
Models
from
£7B/10/-
The features that commend this splendid machine to all motor-
cyclists are reliability, comfort and efficiency.
The New Hudson combines every mechanical device calculated to
make motor-cycling a pleasure under all conditions.
A very powerful engine, designed to stand the strain of rough
roads—fitted with Armstrong 3-spced Gear and Clutch, which
enables the rider to travel at any speed desired.
The power transmission of the chain-belt drive combines elasticity,
smooth action and cleanliness of the belt drive—thus doubling or
trebling the life of the belt.
A specially-constructed form of double bearing to support the crank-
shaft on the driving side provides a large increase of strength at this
point.
Call and inspect the latest
models in our showrooms.
We will forward Catalogue
836 post free on request.
BENNETT 8 BARBELL, Ltd.
Agents for New Hudson, Rudge> Whitworth and Triumph Motor Cycles,
Manufacturers of the B & B Motor Cycles,
124-132 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HARDY BROTHERS
LIMITED.
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
Dainty Jewellery.
- '■<;
' f;
£ ‘
■
■■4' j
Green Tourmaline and
Pearl Drop Necklet,
in Case, £4.
Country Customers who
are unable to visit the
showrooms should write
for our large Catalogue,
illustrating every branch
of the Firm’s extensive
business. Sent Post Free
on request.
TOURMALINES.
Hardy Brothers have a
very large selection of
Pink and Green Tourma-
lines of Fine Quality,
mounted in dainty orna-
ments of every descrip-
tion.
Inspection Invited.
Fine Pink Tourmaline
and Diamond Drop
Necklet, in Case, £34.
13 Hunter St., Sydney; 118 Queen St., Brisbane.
32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON, W.
READ THESE BOOKS
and jou will realise that Australia is producing authors whose
woik is quite as entertaining as any which reaches us from over-
seas. These are a few of the eighty volumes in the
"BOOKSTALL” SERIES
OF AUSTRALIAN BOOM.
(1,500,000 Sold to Date.)
ALL ONE PRICE: 1/- each. 1/1 posted.
Australian
Barkers
BITERS
ASTI
ROBERT
kalejkj
"AUSTRALIAN BARKERS g BITERS.”
A book devoted to the Australian
dog—his origin and peculiarities. If
you are a lover of dogs you simply
must possess a copy; but if you are in
the habit of kicking every inoffensive
mongrel you pass, the reading of this
book will make you his friend instead.
That’s how compelling Robert Kaleski’s
book is.
“ THEATRICAL CARICATURES.”
A splendid record of the Australian
stage by anecdote and caricature.
"THE PYJAMA MAN.”
“The theme holds the reader
throughout, and the general interest
is enhanced by the delightfully crisp
writing. It is beautifully illustrated.”
Town and Country Journal.
“ WOLAROI’S CUP.”
A vigorous and fascinating story
of the turf.
c p[MfQOSa&
sfisocßßa
WfiM
ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF
DETECTIVE STORIES HUMOROUS BOOKS
HISTORICAL NOVELS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
>
w
s*s
o
X
o
h
MP&i
4
'Look for the Red S sign in all our Shop Windows.
General Management for Australasia—
Stephen Court, 77=79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.


SALE BARGAINS
IN MEN’S SOFT FELT HATS
During the Sale our Winter Stock of Men's Hats is sub-
ject to a Bonus of 10 per cent. (2/- in the £) for Cash,
in addition to the usual sale reductions. The known quality
and reliability of Farmer’s Hats makes this an unusual
buying opportunity.
The hat illustrated is a smart Neglige shape, in Grey,
Green, Brown and Navy, with brim 2] or 2 A inches wide.
May be had in plain or rough Felt, with bow either at
side or back.
Fsual Prices,
12/6, 14/6.
Sale Price, 11J6 each.
ALSO, LESS THE 10 PER CENT. BONUS.
FARMER’S PAY THE CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, Sydney
£
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
Parftin)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent: ■
A.O. SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/« per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 29, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
( The Munro Ferguson lady looked in at the
Collingwood Cr&che and Kindergarten the
other morning. Doris Blackwood (who
teaches at the Lonsdale-street establishment)
was with her, and Mrs. I. H. Moss showed
both round. Her Ex. exuded admiration in
the usual manner; but when someone men-
tioned that a hovei'ing press menial would like
her to kiss one of the infants for photographic
purposes, she remarked hastily that they
looked beautifully clean and tidy—and then
the subject was dropped. On noticing a mite
wearing a mouthful of rubber, the distin-
guished visitor mentioned in a severe tone
that “comforters” are now ruled out in the
most hygienic circles. So the popular custom
of one generation is the condemnable old fool-
ishness of the next, even in nursery matters.
A Melba concert is practically certain to
be. one of the dissipations of the coming
Science Congress, G.-G. Ferguson having got
Ihe lady’s promise to sing to the wise men
when they put their heads together in this
city.
On Saturday afternoon the Repertory
Theatre scored a full house. Cynical way-
farers on their way to outdoor amusements,
on observing the crush, remarked that the
players must have a lot of relations ; but the
gibe was not deserved. The intellectual joint
to be eaten within was something of Ibsen’s;
and any chronic brain-feeder will tear his
way through a strong-room door to get to an
unusual dish like that. One scene used up
a whole stage of people—though most of them
were only there to bellow like angry cows at
a street orator. It gave the least important
Repertory aspirant a chance. A comic relief
inebriate cheered up the house just when
people were getting to that sodden stage when
the lower jaw has to be supported with one
hand. Both the vice-regal potentates were
included in the audience. The Munro Fer-
gusons occupied one box, with dimpled Doris
Blackwood and a full pack of Gentlemen
Helps. In an opposite pen, the Stanley pair
sat in state, with their assistants around
them, and tried to look worth the official
salary. During the interval the G.-G. walked
round and occupied the chair of a Stanley
employee, in order to chat with the little
Stanley dame. Tea was carried to both
parties, and the loyal and devoted subjects of
both gentlemen sat up and watched atten-
tively to see if anyone was going to blow on
it or take it out of the saucer. I discovered
that the great double dissolutioner lifts his
teacup with his left hand. (I don’t know
if this information is of any use to you, my
dear; but there it is if you want it.)
The opening of the State Parliament,
which, as Heaven knows, is a free show that
no sane person in regular employment wants
to see twice, sagged badly from a social point
of view. The bloom of interest had worn
off State Excellency Stanley, and the new-old
Premier Peacock proved a poor drawing-
card. A number of women, who were sus-
pected of being friends and sympathisers of
the performers, turned up in good clothes,
and seemed disappointed because there was
no necessity to shove and scramble for
places. The Stanley dame was one of the
onlookers and Mrs. Peacock another. Mrs.
Davies hostessed a cosy tea-party round the
glowing radiators in the reception-room, and
a band blew and rattled like a gale in the
corridors. Some of the guests arranged to
stay on and hear Peacock’s speech as Pre-
mier ; but, as the gabbling was not due to
start until the chill hour of five, they gradu-
ally weakened on their resolve and went home
in good time for the evening meal.
The sheepishly-wealthy Maggie Niall, who
married Help Burnham, of the Denman
staff, in a whirl of confetti, spent most of
her London honeymoon in hospital. It was
really a chloroformmoon. However, the
last news her friends got was to the effect
that she had recovered and gone off with
her captain husband to be introduced to his
relations in the country.
Hec. Goldspink, the stocky, robustious tenor
who left Melbourne with the idea of joining
the Quinlan Opera Co. (now in a state of
uncertainty), has gone into training with a
view to becoming a vocal champion. It seems
he met Melba, and that business-like star
was struck by his capabilities for stage
work. His voice at present is too vigorous,
she says, and for the process of refining it
she recommended a certain French tutor.
When the aspirant spoke of his financial
limitations Melba undertook to get a reduc-
tion of fees to meet the case. This she did.
Moreover, she advised the young man to
refuse an offer of a three-years’ engagement
which would have interfered with his studies
and have fixed him in the second class, and
she told him to apply to her if he should get
stuck for money before he was ripe for dis-
tinction.
At his last Melbourne concert Bauer
played Beethoven’s Sonata in F sharp, and
demonstrated once and for all how strongly
the great composer was influenced by the
modern ragtime manufacturers. The Best
People arrived late for the treat, and rustled
in with clinking chatelaines, and stood
heavily on early enthusiasts’ feet. They
were tremendously popular by the time they
had waded to their various seats, which
seemed to be always in the middle of a row.
Musical fiends arrived, pushing and dragging
large scores. With their learned noses to
the page, they audited Bauer note by note,
and thereby missed seeing his wavy wrist-
action, which is reminiscent of Maud Allan.
With the exception of his hands, the pianist
looks muscular enough to tackle navvying.
The determined set of his shoulders, as he
disappears through his rose-decorated cur-
tains after each number, suggests that he has
downed notes for the evening. Certainly
he has to be paid overtime in advance ap-
plause before he will consent to give an
encore.
Paul Dufault, of the golden tenor voice,
will carol for two nights in Melbourne, on
his way back to America. The dates are
July 8 and 9, and the girls who dote on
tenors are getting their winter bouquets of
violets ready.
Baritone George Cowley (who, when he
isn’t singing, helps the Continental Tyre Co.
to roll on its way) is being tendered the
usual complimentary concert, before he leaves
for Europe. The affair will take place in the
Masonic Ilall, on Tuesday, July 21. The
names of Maggie Stirling, Amadio, Murray-
Lucas and others decorate the programme.
Sutton’s are dealing out the tickets and blue-
pencilling the box plan.
Judge Murray, of Papua, brought his
nephew, Leonard Murray, back with him from
the wild province. The young man is the
son of the J. H. Murrays, of Cheltenham, and
acts as secretary to his judicial uncle. He
announces that he is also acting as fiance to
Miss Pauline Herbert, daughter of Judge Her-
bert, of Port Moresby. The wedding is to
be celebrated before the end of the year.
So far as I know, dancer Maud Allan
claims no kinship with Australia. But I
hear on more or less reliable authority (no
authority is ever quite reliable) that a Miss
Iver (or Ivor), who was prominent in the
cycling world of Melbourne about 15 years
ago, claimed Maud as a sister. The father
of the lady claimant is a resident of Wil-
liamstown. If the dancer is the long-absent
sister (and it is quite possible she isn’t),
she left Melbourne numerous years ago.
Then, of course, anyone is entitled to leave
Melbourne when they feel inclined. (You
will notice, my dear Yarrie, that I have
tried to be as non-committal as possible.)
Ex-Senator Simon Fraser, who is at
present travelling in Europe, is now mourn-
ing the death of his younger daughter Katliie,
wife of squatter Mcßean. She died in Mel-
bourne last week, after an operation. The
late Mrs. Mcßean and her elder sister, Mrs.
McVean, were the only children of Mr.
Fraser’s first marriage. Two sons are the
offspring of his second venture.
Mrs. Fxdtz Hart, wife of the musician, is
so devoted to small dogs of birth and pedi-
gree that a Melbourne Kennel Show alone
is not enough for her. She is going to Ade-
laide with a library of seven small dogs to
show the diminutive creatures there. The
proud owner can carry two quite comfort-
ably. in her muff when she goes out to tea
parties, and someone alleges that one was re-
cently mistaken for a swift black beetle and
slain with a boot-heel.
Mrs. Major James (who must not be
confused with Mrs. General Desire, wife of
the well-known theatrical patron) gave a
party at the Lyceum Club to dancer Maud
Allan, the everlasting Clierniavskys, con-
ductor St. Leger and a few others. Mar-
garet Anderson, of Brisbane, who voyaged
hither with the company, was amongst the
guests, claiming that she filled Melbourne
Town Hall with her voice in her pre-student
days. But what that grand old freezing
chamber needs is to be filled with hot coals.
And, anyway, it must have been as empty
as ever when Margaret closed her lips and
went abroad to study, leaving not a note
behind her.
Pretty Sylvia Little, whom Rumor, with
her usual unreliability, recently engaged to
the editor of a Sydney daily, is leaving for
the Fried Nigger Republic, with a load of
histrionic ambitions and bushels of the best
wishes. The girleen has brains, good looks
and coin, and what the first two won’t do
with Yankee managers the last should
accomplish.
News crawls in by post that the Robert
Harpers have reached London, and that
London is rumbling on its daily round un-
moved. Mrs. Harper twisted her arm early
in the voyage whilst climbing a companion
ladder on a rough day; but the distinguished
limb is now said to be much better.
Bedggood, the man who owns a few acres
of boot factories, is being congratulated on a
good recovery. Some weeks ago he fell
25ft. down a lift-well. And even a man who
makes his living by thousands of feet can’t
do that sort of thing with impunity.
It was a Toorak neighbor and namesake
of Mrs. Roystone Davey who lent her ball-
room to Marjorie Williamson and the Hig-
gins girls for their dance of la'st week. Mrs.
Davey declares, with tears in her eyes, that
she has not got a ballroom to lend. But,
no doubt, she could have one if she wanted
to.
Mrs. Falkiner, who was the petitioner in
the Falkiner divorce suit, is dropping the
first name of Ralph, and will in future be
known as Mrs. Graham Falkiner. Mr. Falk-
iner recently married again.
The little daughter of the late Bert Army-
tage (who survived a Sliackleton Antarctic
trip only to die in a comfortable city club)
is doing her young best to enjoy the life of a
healthy boy—minus the whackings. She
dresses in boy’s clothes, and is regarded as a
champion at outdoor sports down at Lome,
where the forests and mountains come down
to meet the Southern Ocean and the Army-
tage home is planted.
Artist Dora Meeson-Coates has been busily
secretarying the art section of the Women’s
Kingdom Exhibition, at Olympia, London.
Suffragists of the domestic and non-militant
type are at the back of the venture.
The other day an impromptu party was
rushed together at the Athenaeum, and fed
and fussed over. The pleasant social acci-
dent occurred in the room where the Aus-
tralian Artists’ Association pictures are
hanging. Maud Allan, in an ermine stole
and some Salome-like draperies, w r as the
storm-centre, and, as usual, the Cherniav-
skys hovered about excitedly. The trio have
been lionised at tea-and-bun rallies and
tigerised with sandwiches and small talk.
Mrs. McCubbin was responsible for the tea
party on this occasion. She was loyally
assisted by several of the McCubbin sons.
Mrs. Ilennessy dropped up the three flights
of stone steps, and Mrs. Abrahams, who
enthuses about art in a practical and help-
ful manner, was in the vicinity. A few
visitors found time to glance at the pictures.
Melbourne is never without its moveless
picture show these days. Mr. Chris Murray
shows next in the Upper Room of the
Athenaeum. The private view is on Thurs-
day, July 2, and thereafter the public may
tramp in and out until July 14.
On Wednesday night of last week, the Vic-
torian artists had their usual revel in the
Turn Verein Ilall. The bothersome pageant
was ruled out this year, and the Bohemians
did their level best to boheme in the Parisian
manner. Their success or otherwise may
be gauged by the current confidential whisper
of the art students present: “Wait till our
ball! We’ll hit things up !” So the terrible
struggle to be gay goes on.
Preliminary meetings are already being
held about the distant University Ball. It
is as far off as September, but some people
are already losing their sleep over it and
getting cream puffs before the eyes. A full
set of Governors is going; but there is
nothing to fuss about in .that —unless the
committee wants to keep them out. It is
very hard to keep Governors out, or prevent
them from double dissolutionihg or laying
foundation-stones. These things become
confirmed vices with them.
The Old Xaverians are asking their numer-
ous friends to a party, in the St. Kilda
Town Hall, on Tuesday, July 7. (“Dancing
S. till 2” is mentioned in brackets.) Dr.
Keane, of Glenferrie, is compiling the list of
acceptors, which is expected to be long. The
Old X.’s are mostly doctors and lawyers, so
when one is asked to dance, one will hesi-
tate between offering 6s. Bd. or putting out
the tongue, please.
The Melbourne Dental Students gyrated at
the St. Kilda Town Hall on June 24, when
they showed their teeth amiably at one
another. This suburban event, though quite
unsensational, is one of old Winter’s best
golden fillings.
This paragraph would be printed in green
ink if it were possible to arrange matters with
the gentleman (or should it be “nobleman”?)
who feeds the paper into the machines. The
Irish National Ball, due in the Town Hall on
Monday, August 3, is “to celebrate the
Restoration of the National Parliament of
Erin.” Marcus Mclnerney is president, and
T. P. Beary (God bless him!) hon. secre-
tary. I don’t pretend to understand the
scrap of pure Irish on the pale green-and-
gold invitation card ; but the remark in the
corner about six shillings is perfectly intelli-
gible.
The Commercial Travellers lately moved
into their new palace in Flinders-street—and
commercial travellers are not the sort of
people to let an occasion like that pass with-
out a series of celebrations. The young-
sters’ turn is to come on Saturday, when the
Town Hall will be filled with young delight
from 3.30 till 8. The social tea and bun
will go round without ceasing from 4.30 till
6.30, and any child who remains hungry after
that will have to be taken away and fed by
contract. Any adult who desires to be
present will have to pay half a crown for
the privilege.
A semi-detached medico, who practises in a
fashionable seaside suburb, lately advertised
for a housekeeper. But he is not likely to
choose the same garish way of obtaining
household help the next time he finds the
kitchen undermanned. On the appointed day
a serried horde of females surged towards the
front door: and reinforcements hurried along
till the roadway in front fairly boiled. The
terrified man fled up on to his roof and
looked at them from behind a chimney. They
were all shapes and colors, and the most
mature one in sight was old enough to have
been the youngest applicant’s grandmother.
He came down at last and made his desperate
choice somewhere in the happy medium, be-
tween antiquity and irresponsible youth.
A Melbourne woman has just been able to
prove that her supposed Alaska-fox wrap is
plain Australian rabbit. Her lawyer dis-
covered and produced such conclusive proofs
that the lady is chuckling over something like
30 guineas returned, with apologies.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The ratepayers decided by a furious majority on
Friday not to allow any White City to be imposed
on their Park Lands. What with the tramways cut-
ting their way through the squares and a few other
unconsidered trifles, the people have arrived at the
conclusion that if they don’t buck up and take pre-
cautionary measures they will have no parks left.
Hence the decease of the White City outrage.
Miss Thea Proctor, whose exhibition of water colors
is to be opened on Wednesday, is staying at the Queen
Adelaide Club. From here she goes on to England,
probably some time in July.
Guillaux was the star item at the Tom Popes’
garden party on Saturday. He did all his well-known
stunts, and earned the usual yells of admiration and
sheer delight. Had he but fallen from a height of 5000 ft.
and broken his neck, the joy of the gathering would
have been absolutely complete. As it was, fully 95
per cent, were perfectly satisfied with his exhibition.
The Sunnyside garden looked lovely. In fact, it
seemed to be under the delusion that the Spring had
arrived untimely. For this error the weather was to
blame. It has been no more like June, of late, than a
Methody deaconess is like the Rokeby Venus. Talking
of female loveliness, Mrs. Pope looked well in smoke-
grey brocade, with touches of lace and black velvet.
She received her guests in the entrance hall, whence
they were drafted to various parts of the house for
music and tea. Among them were two full-fledged
bishops, with gaiters and all other attachments com-
plete, and attended by their wives. (In case of
misunderstanding, let me mention that they have but
one wife apiece.) In the “also ran” division may be
numbered Miss Howard, the Downer lady, the E. T.
Smith nobleman, his daughter and a grandson or
two, and Dr. and Mrs. Todd. Also, a
sprinkling of Hamiltons, Mr. Justice Murray and his
sister and 14 basket-loads of clerics. Apropos the
latter, I am breaking no confidence by disclosing that
126 “small milks” were consumed during the after-
noon.
The remainder of Society (the less godly) was at
Reynella, watching a hunt, and having tea at the
Reynells, or at Cheltenham.
The R. M. Hawkers, who have been at Glenelg for
some months, have returned to Bungaree.
Miss Adela Pankhurst, who put the case for woman
from the platform at the Victoria Hall on Thursday
and Friday evenings (speaking of women’s wrongs to
a community in which women have all the rights they
have asked for), is staying at North Adelade
with Mrs. J. P. Moriee. She is an easy and dramatic
speaker. However, as a proselytiser, she fails to
make much headway. There is a feeling locally that
to burn down cathedrals and dynamite private homes
is scarcely lady-like. “My dear,” said one of our
most inveterate female platitudinarians, “if we’re
worth our salt we can get all we want now, and
more than our share at that. I’d give up my pull
as a mere woman for no franchise known to Parlia-
ment.” Of course, the point she misses is that
Adela is after both the pull and the franchise.
The annual ball in aid of the funds of the Home
for Incurables occurred at the Unley Town Hall on
Tuesday. The Galways were there,' and the Mayor
and the Mayoress, and several members of Parlia-
ment —in fact, it was a most glittering spectacle,
suggestive now of Buckingham Palace at its best,
and anon of Versailles, when Louis Quatorze was hit-
ting things up. I noticed the Mayor sitting out a dance
in a place which markedly resembled the Petit
Trianon. What a life we do lead here, to be sure!
The tickets sold well, and if the Home bursts after
this effort on its behalf it ought to be ashamed of
itself. The function would have been even more
splendid but for the Peter Dawson concert. I figure
it out that Peter owes the Home about £96 10s.
Guillaux has convinced Adelaide at last that flying
is a practical thing. Previous experimenters have
had rotten luck in smashing either spectators or
machines; but he did just what he proposed, and a
bit over. The loop-looping was tremendously im-
pressive ; so, in another way, was his return after
a short disappearance, with the casual remark that
he had just run over, by previous arrangement, to
look in at a garden party 10 miles away. This
made an airship seem as simple and practical as a
motor-car, and the clamorings for a trip, at any
cost, were loud. But Guillaux had no machine with
him built for carrying passengers, so the golden
offers had to be declined.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
“The Old Soldier” : The murder of the Aus-
trian Emperor’s heir and his wife is more
than likely to throw Austria and finally, per-
haps, a good deal of Europe, into the melting
pot. The Archduke Franz Ferdinand seems
to have been generally popular, and the mur-
der was the result of that sort of vanity that
makes suffragettes get locked up, and then go
on a hunger-strike. There is nothing to be
gained by murdering an Austrian Archduke,
because there are a score or two more to take
his place, and if they are none of them very
bright, they have all been very well trained
to act the part of figurehead. There are so
many of them that, as the Infanta Eulalie
wrote in her memoirs, it needs half the Aus-
trian army to mount guai’d on their palaces.
Still, the murdered man will be a great loss,
because for years he had been in training for
the billet he will now never fill, and people
knew what he stood for. His place will be
taken by a new and unknown man who may
upset all calculations. Undoubtedly the
Countess Karolyi’s curse on the Emperor
Francis Joseph in 1849 is being accomplished.


sul One. ?(eefyj!!


S'.*
4
ofiSs'
For
Windows
Cleaning
windows ts
She easy
task with
Bon Ami.
&
Bon Ami has a velvety fineness and
does its work without scratching.
! vv
n
For
Painted
Wood
Work
Bon Ami
will not hurt
the paint
removes the
dirt only
Bon Ami
The most wonderful cleaner in the
world invaluable because of its
many uses in the home.
[I
DAIMLER
’BUSES and LORRIES
LEAD
for EFFICIENCY, ECONOMY & GENERAL UPKEEP.
Sole Australian Agents —
SUNSHINE riotor Cars Pty. Ltd.,
c/o COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
ALSO H. V. McKAY, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
•‘Egbert R.”: The old pearling grounds
off Melville Island, near Port Darwin, are not yet
quite worked out.' A few fine large shells were found
there not long ago, of which 150 pairs weighed
ocwt. Some of the boats worked in 19 to 20 fathoms
of water, and one of the divers became slightly para-
lysed. It is a curious fact that in the Port Darwin
grounds paralysis generally comes on if the divers
work much below 16 fathoms, whereas on the north-
west coast, near Broome, and in the Torres Strait
that depth is quite safe. Old pearlers explain this
by asserting that the water about Port Darwin is
much heavier than in the pearling grounds to the
east or west, and that the pressure on the diver’s
body at 15 fathoms near Port Darwin is equal to
that at 20 fathoms at the other grounds. Perhaps
it is this quality in the water that makes swim-
ming so easy in the Fort Hill enclosure, where, for
practice, we used to hold up an “apparently drowned”
person with the greatest ease.
“Gipps”: Stand from under while I
descend on Melbourne Argus. That paper says there
was never any white woman wandering with the
Gippsland blacks, and that the old yarns to the
contrary are bunkum. Now, I know better, as also
would Mr. Ilagenaur, who was a missionary at
Pamahyuck blacks’ station, on Gippsland Lake; like-
wise Jimmy Scott, aboriginal. I can’t give you
their address, because both arc dead at present. How-
ever, take my word for it, the truth is here. In the
days when, in certain parts of Victoria, bushranging
and a little gold-digging were the principal indus-
tries, a pair of newly-weds conceived the idea of
spending their “moon” on the rush at Foster. The
woman Wore a stone of great brilliancy. The blacks
looked upon this as a most powerful charm, and
reckoned that in their possession it would mean
plenty of ’possum, ’roo, wallaby and good luck
generally. None of the abos. dared let any other get
hold of such awful powers ; hence the charm, wearer
and all, was indispensable. The waddy worked suc-
cessfully at an early date. Search parties hunted
more or less for about five years. (The police,
of course, were baffled.) Then missionary Hagenaur,
on information from his black crew, joined in the
hunt. They ran the tribe and the woman to loca-
tion on Lake King. In the general hurry and excite-
ment the blacks rushed about in canoes, and made
for a small island in the lake. The woman, plainly
seen in one of the canoes, stood up and called to her
would-be releasers, but this action upset the craft,
with the result that she was drowned.
* * * *
“Bug-bitten”: I see that the Queensland
Government, having awakened to the fact that lan-
tana has assumed the proportions of a curse, has
imported a few bugs to combat it. The province of
this bug is to bite some vital part of the curse till
it falls down dead. Without going into the question
of what should happen to the inept shire councils
whose duty-dodging in regard to lantana has made
the introduction of the bugs necessary, it is worth
while considering whether it is safe to introduce
any more of these “farmer’s friends.” It is not
long since a parasite was introduced into the cane-
fields of North Queensland, whose mission in life was
to exterminate the grasshopper. It hasn’t harmed the
’hopper, but it is an open question whether it hasn’t
found something else of value to exist on, more
juicy and less elusive. Also it would not be surpris-
ing if lantana’s alleged mortal enemy were to turn
its attention to some of our fruits and flowers. These
foreign exterminators are all right in their way, but
their way is too dashed various.
“Leo Lear”: As “Vigilans” says (B.
28/5/’l4), black cockatoos stand captivity badly;
yet I know an instance where for many years a
Banksian black cockatoo was successfully kept, and I
believe it is still adorning the domicile. I remember,
too, a Dallarnil (Q.) farmer, who, seeing a small
flock of these birds on his maize-crop, fired into them
and wounded one. This he cared for until it re-
covered, when it was put into a large netting cage
with a male king-parrot for company. Here it
has lived and flourished for years, chiefly on
a diet of maize. Any doubters can write to F.
Emery, Degilbo, though I guarantee he won't send
his treasure to verify my par.
THE WANING OF THE HONEYMOON.
THE HUMAN GRAMOPHONE : “Everyone says
this is a speaking likeness of me, dear.”
THE INHUMAN BRUTE (wearily): “ Yes, yes;
but couldn't you get one that shuts up? ”
ACCOMMODATING.
BUTCHER: “Well, yer know, mum, meat's very dear to-day."
MRS. GUBBINS: “ Ho! 'then gimme a pound o' yesterday's steak, please .”
“Beetle-Snarer”: A Sydney big-game
shooter came back the other day from British East
Africa and reported that the local lion is still feeling
so scared that you can’t get a shot at him or his
wife. He blames Rainey, the picture-hunter, who
used-big dogs for tracking
England’s symbolic ani-
mal, and by that means
wiped out about 130 of
him. I know a vicious old
gentleman who went after
the noble-looking beast
with a pair of spectacles,
two magazine rifles and
some native bearers. Gen-
erally his victim was dis-
covered sunning himself
on an anthill, with his
tawny family around him.
When the old gentleman
had deliberately shot him
in the tail from afar off,
the lion would rise with a
look of pained astonish-
ment and trot into the
high grass, closely fol-
lowed by his indignant
family. Once the leonicidal
maniac nearly sat on an
aged grey lioness in mis-
take for a log, and would
have done it altogether
only the she-lion leaped up
with a snarl and hurried
away. The lion-hunter
isn’t as much of a hero
as he makes out.. Cer-
tainly the lion sometimes
charges; but in most cases
the sport seems to be
about as splen-
did as picking
off unarmed
sunbathers at
long range. If
Rainey has
taught the lion
to be cautious
where he sits and to leave early, he has done the
picturesque old brute a good service.
“Moana”: The other morning I passed
over one shilling for a weird plant labelled “The
World’s Greatest Curiosity.”' It looked like a small
piece of dried-up fern-root, but an accompanying
circular, after stating that the plant is mentioned by
Isaiah the prophet, urged the purchaser to set it in
a dish of water and “see it grow in 10 minutes.”
I followed the advice, and inside half an hour the
thing was beginning to push forth green, fern-like
shoots. This interested me, and I delved into the
history of this plant. It is commonly called Live
Forever plant ( Siempre viva), and was originally
found in Egypt, but has recently been discovered
alive and well in the Philippine Islands. You can't
kill it. If you want it to accompany you on a
journey you simply take it out of the water and
throw it in the sun. In an hour" or so it will have
curled up into a small ball, and can be carried
about for years. As soon as it is again placed in
water, however, it starts making up for lost time.
The family specimen has been in my study a fort-
night, and already it is climbing all over a big dish
and making for a distant corner. If something isn’t
done shortly I’ll have to move the typewriter into
the garden. I’m just waiting now for someone to
hurl it into an ornamental pond. Then in about
three-threes it will be all over Maoriland, blocking
up rivers and obscuring the lake scenery. Whereupon a
frantic yell will ascend for the importation of the
fern-eating hippopotamus from Siam on the ground
that it is the “natural enemy” of the Never Say Die
plant. This importation of alleged pest exterminators
would be a fine joke if it hadn’t become wearisome
by repetition in Maoriland.
“,T.R.”: Will somebody back in and un-
load information on the following:—
(1) What is the extent in acres of the largest
sheep station in Australia?
(2) What is the greatest number of sheep shorn
on any one station in Australia ?
(3) Quote some of the largest shearing sheds in the
country, giving number of men employed and num-
ber of sheep shorn?
I’d sooner have the truth than anything else, if it’s
all the same to contributors.
* * * *
Bailiff’s warning:—
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the amount
of £2l Is. lid., together with all fees due herein,
be paid at or before the hour of noon on the 9th
day of June, 1914, the Bailiff will sell by public
auction at the Petty Sessions Office, Urunga, the
undermentioned goods and chattels of the Defendant,
or so much thereof as will satisfy such claim. Goods
for Sale: One chestnut mare. Dated at the Urunga
Police Court this 3rd day of June, 1914. D. DOT,
Bailiff.
If the moke isn’t sold holus-bolus and in its en-
tirety, will the fraction required to pay the bill be
carved off in one lump, or will it be in steaks ?
This lack of precision and detail in official advts. is
most annoying.
(Continued on page 24 .)
THE TOWNSHIP.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Good-bye, O little township by the creek !
My destiny is venturous once more ;
My ways henceforth are wide and far to seek;
My passage booked for some long-distance shore.
Of okl I mellowed in your good bush cheer,
And listened to your prophets' at the bar
Ailing theii wisdom, born of local beer,
And pointing argument with facts fetched far.
I'll see no more your sparse and winding street,
ihe match-box church with corrugated roof,
The narrow bridge that spans the runlet sweet’
The stuccoed Courthouse, near and yet aloof.’
I'll hear no more your cows come clanking home,
The grumbling wheels that halt beside the store;
Though in the distant places where I roam
1 hese memories shall usurp mv dreams once more.
The ghosts of tufted grasses by the gates,
I he wraiths of tracks that wind between the trees,
And places where the birds and I were mates,
Despite myself, I still shall dream of these.
There is a weedy garden, by the pinch,
That fronts a shingle cot with gable-ends;
I know its paths and borders, every inch,
And all its shrubs are old respected friends.
A wizened mother still is dwelling there,
Old and alone, for all her sons are dead -
The great bush keeps the ancient secret where
They found their final notice, and their bed.
The blacksmith’s shop stands opposite the store,
And in its gloom a purple jet upsprings,
As through the coke the bellows sigh and roar
The while the hammer on the anvil rings.
Harrows and ploughs, and wheels beyond repair,
Make a huge litter either side the gate ;
Like a great grimy spider in his lair
1 ve often seen the old curmudgeon wait.
He has a way with -horses ; when he speaks
Even the wild-eyed colt grows meek with him,
Ceasing its plunging while the red shoe reeks —
He’s very gentle though he looks so grim.
And from that rise, whose foot is at the town,
One can see out and over plain and hill,
To ranges wearing sunsets as a crown,
Distant, majestic, very grand and still.
Old township, may you still remain the same,
Nor any railway break your ancient rest,
Nor garish progress be your end and aim—
Your antiquated methods are the best.
What gain to you that trams and cabs should ply
In serried lanes of brick, and wood, and stone ;
And all old peace be shattered and laid by,
And quietude and ease be overthrown?
What good that men should hew your placid rocks,
And foul the waters of your limpid creek,
And cut your paddocks into building blocks,
And factory chimneys make your valleys reek?
Far better gliding gently down the years
Free from what progress carries in its train—
The added stress of tyrannies or tears ;
Its joys one-half assumed, the other vain.
See how the rainbowed waters glint and shoot!
Hark to the music of the magpie’s call 1
Your trump of doom would be the engine’s hoot —-
Your tombstone modelled in a new town-hall!
Long may the hand of Time delay that end,
Leaving you still unsullied, as of old,
A harbor for the simpler loves, that blend
To weave through life a thread of virgin gold.
Though I be drawn from these familiar ways,
Nor hear once more your rhyme of birds and bees,
Nor know again successive halcyon days,
Fate may not cheat me of my dreams of these!
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


BUCKLEY’S
£3|3/- SUITS
ARE
NOT FOR ONE PARTICULAR MAN,
BUT FOR ALL PARTICULAR MEN.
WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION
with all suits made by us, or we
will refund your money in full.
OUR TAILORED SUITS
TO MEASURE FOR
63b
ARE CORRECTLY CUT and
tailored by the best and most
talented men money can procure.
OUR SUITINGS are restricted to
guaranteed ALL WOOL materials of
specially attractive weaves and
patterns.
THE BEST SUIT PROPOSITION
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
WRITE FOR PATTERNS and Self-
Measure Forms, Post Free to any address.
j
/D&J
.^v
MELBOURNE’S PREMIER STORE,
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED
BOURKE STREET.
Distribution and Control of
Electricity in Mines and
Factories!
We wish to call your attention to FERRANTI complete and
efficient
Iron-clad
Standard Panels
These panels are totally enclosed, locked
and fool-proof. They allow ample clearance
between the live parts; all elements are easy
and safe of access for cleaning, renewal and
alteration, and .there is complete inter-
changeability of spares.
Mine managers, Factory managers and others
using medium and high-tension alternating
current should write us for full particulars
of these up-to-date panels.
Combinations to control any apparatus can be made up in standard
panels, with provision for unlimited extension.
BIG CROWDS
‘Mu
are Attracted I
BY THE FRESENCE OF
NELSON’S
Soda F ountains
NOW is the time to get a “move on” if you are going in for big things. The Soda
Fountain Business is a “sure and certain thing” if you are equipped with the right
kind of plant. But this is the essential point. You can’t afford to run risks with
a plant that has no reputation to lose, because it will soon lose you yours.
The most reliable, up-to-date and economical SODA FOUNTAIN Plants are
those manufactured and supplied by the NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
Long, practical experience in the Soda Fountain Art has evolved this perfect
plant. Every part is faithfully made, every detail that makes for perfection is
embodied therein. NELSON’S guarantee stands at the back of every FOUNTAIN.
To avoid possible disappointment you should place your order NOW! Scores
of orders are coming in continually. See into this matter at once. Write NOW
for full information. Your inquiries will be promptly dealt with.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 George Street, Sydney.
Also Turbot Buildings, Turbot Street, Brisbane.
USE
POILITE
Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Tiles
(Genuine British Made).
' “POILITE” means low first cost, economy in construction, and
greater satisfaction.
LOW FIRST COST because “POILITE” Sheets cost about the
same as weatherboard.
ECONOMY IN CONSTRUCTION, because “POILITE” Sheets
are easily and quickly nailed into position.
GREATER SATISFACTION, because “POILITE” is of such
a nature that it adds greater strength each year.
“POILITE” is fire-proof, ant-proof, weather-proof, non-absorbent,
cool in Summer, warm in Winter.
“POILITE” Sheets are made in the following sizes:—
4ft. x 4ft., 6ft. x 3ft., Bft. x 4ft., and 12ft. x 12ft.
“POILITE” TILES
For roofing purposes there is no material better adapted, more
serviceable, satisfactory, attractive and economical, than
“POILITE” Tiles. Being light in structure, they allow a big
saving in the roof framework. They are guaranteed British
Standard thickness, and do not affect the rain water.
Write for our catalog “M.” It gives full particulars.
NOTES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD.,
115 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,
499 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Selling Agents: CHAS. E. BERNAYS, 45 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE;
STEEL & BAKER, ADELAIDE; J. R. W. GARDAM, PERTH.


n
a US
iiJXO
BLACK & SMOKELESS
SPORTING & MATCH
CARTRIDGES
Trtß MOST RELIABLE OF ALL
AMMUNITION.
ASK YOUR STOREKEEPER FOR
KYBLACK—BLACK POWDER,
SWIFT, BONAX, PRIMAX,
GASTIGHT, P.G. SMOKELESS
POWDER.
Wholesale only
SCOTTISH HOUSE, 90 William St., Melbourne.
KYNOCH HOUSE, 277 Clarence St., Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
( Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
*E are Born to
offer Benefit*
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital
Subscribed
Paid=up
£250,000
165,000
82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents: wanted. Write for particulars.
It. S. DOHERTY, General Manager.
45'
E.MASCULATCR.
Thi S “ SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with ail
risk of bleeding.
Postage Free 45/-
My “Hints on Castrating ”
enable any man used to stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Ranis, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emaseulators from
30/- to 50/-
Zoeller’s “ Handy ”
Castrating Knife,3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Catalog.
It's FREE
“rick”: “F.H.R.,” who (B. ll/0/’14)
undertakes to censure Norman Lindsay for draw-
ing a milker on the near side of a cow, doesn’t
know, evidently, that in these days of advanced ideas
the goddess has no wrong side. Where the newlv-
patented iron-railing cowbails have been installed
among the N.S.W. South ('oast and Monaro dairies,
the cows are bowed into their stands along each
wall—left and right—of the long, narrow milking
sheds, and the milkers, operating between them, must
extract the fluid from, half the female deities on
their right side, and from the other half on their left
side. Likewise, where milking machines take the
places of the cow-slayes, half the tubes are attached
to the north and the other half to Die south of the
beast. So N.L. goes to the top of the cowology class
and “F.H.R.” to the bottom.
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
HUSBAND: “Why can't you be bright and
pleasant like the lady over there? ”
WIFE: “ She's a widow!”
“Polstan”: For adaptability to circum-
stances the freshwater mussel beats any politician.
A few weeks ago I was present when one was dug out
of a clay-heap that had been dredged from a creek-
bed three years ago. The mussel was bound around
with grass-roots, and took a lot of freeing. It was
certain that it hadn’t opened its shells during the
period, because the clay was packed hard about it.
It w r as also some 20 yards from water. All the
same, it was a thoroughly healthy mussel, fat and
heavy, and fit to serve up to a blackfellow. Apropos
of freshwater mussels, they’re about the undaintiest
dish society doesn’t know. There is only one thing
worse than the taste of a roasted mussel, and that’s
the smell of it, and both are indescribable.
BRINGING HIM UP WITH CARE.
Rev. W. Presley said the people were going to rise and demand that they should have Bible
readings in State schools. At Pentridge a Bible was placed in every cell.
—Report of Protestant Defence Association Meeting (Melb.).
INDIGNANT LADY : “If the Bible"s good enough for criminals it ain't good enough for
Tommy; Pm not going to have my boy brought up to be a burglar."
“N.N.”: I can assure “Jack S.” (B.
4/6/’l4) that the sassafras of Northern New England
is just as good a white-ant resister as the Queensland
cypress. I don't know Whether it grows anywhere
else in N.S.W., but there’s a fairly large supply of
it on the slopes east of Tenterfield.
The first post office in that town,
built over half a century ago, was
demolished a couple of years back,
and the sassafras joists, ground plates,
floorings, etc., were still perfectly
sound. Tenterfield, by the way, is
within the white-ant area. Cypress
is now only obtainable in compara-
tively small sticks, and, in conse-
quence, warps a lot, whereas 24-inch
or 30-incli boards of sassafras are by
no means uncommon. Cypress is also
liable to be attacked by borers; so is
bastard sassafras, but the sassafras
proper (I forget its botanical name)
has no time for either borer or white
ant. Southern Queensland is begin-
ning to fully realise the value of this
wood, and draws freely on Tenterfield
for supplies. It makes the finest ball-
room floors I’ve ever leaped on, but
its best use is for linings; it answers
kindly to the plane, and looks well,
varnished or plain. It is essentially
an “inside” wood and does not
weather well. Growing in the same
district is a white wood, a cross be-
tween pine and beech. It owns an
enormous breaking resistance" on
account of its long grain, and cuts
wool instead of sawdust. Incident-
ally it plays blue fury with saws.
Has any timber man seen it used
other than for coachbuilding pur-
poses? I tried it for butter boxes,
but it has a faint woody smell—just
enough of it to count the article out for that line.
“II.I.O.”: No wonder the Queensland
cypress pine, extolled by “J.S.” (B. 4/6/’l4), is not
troubled by white ants. It is so villainously scented
and flavored that no termite with a reputation for a
palate could afford to sample it. People from the
Balonne and Maranoa country, where the vegetable
abounds, can always be identified by the scent which
clings to them. The houses in those parts are mostly
built of cypress, and the handsome yellow wood, with
its numerous dark brown knots, becomes a weariness
to the eye and nose. It is also a weariness to the
temper when worked, as it splits on the slightest
provocation, and has to be bored for tacks, even.
* * * *
“Kodak”: The visiting missioner was just
putting the finishing touches to a frozen and badly
Devil-scared congregation, when the devotee with
the enormous umbrella pattered like a frightened
rat down the dim and endless aisle and started to
hunt for a refuge somewhere in the packed front
seats. He was doing his miserable best to be un-
obtrusive ; but in that dreadful hush he sounded
like a battery of artillery trotting down a cobbled
street. Presently, in his extreme agitation, he
dropped his umbrella with an explosive crash, and
instantly the awful shrouded figure in the piTlpit
ceased to thunder. The last shout before the cut-
off went echoing amongst the remote rafters, and
in the following silence the terrified feet of the
accursed latecomer were heard scuffling to safety.
His hunched shoulders and the handle of the umbrella
were just visible above the heads and hats of the
row into which he had burst his way. A thousand
staring eyes watched him tensely ; even life itself
seemed to be suspended until the blessed instant he
should drop out of sight. But, just as he was about
to do so, the precious canopy of old age slipped
from his grasp and crashed to the flags once more.
Then the volcanic preacher erupted. “Woe to the
latecomer!” he cried in trumpet tones. “Woe to
the one who seeks salvation too late! Let me tell
that man—that interrupter of the blessed Word of
God —let me tell him here and now that”—(very
deliberately and thumping the cushions terribly)—
“there will be plenty of umbrellas in Hell!”
“S.S.”: “Didja hear iv Ann McGuire
what’s cook at Heffernan’s Ryle Fam’ly Hotel at
all?” said “Pointer” Callan, looking up from the
wee blonde pet pig he was tickling with a stake.
“’Tis a fine, sthrappin’, energenetic gir-r-1, though
forty-siven ’n’ more, especially iv worrkin’ days, ’n’
dishpite her bein’ given promiscuous t’ the drink,
more’s the pity, drink bein’ a black currse ’n’ a rare
disthroyer iv homes. Ann’s no bad cook whin sober
’n’ decorous, but wid no rnore'n tin dthrains iv
Heffernan’s bulk barr’l whisky to her she’ll go t’ be
forgettin’ ’tis soup she’s mailin’, ’n’ not rhubarb stoo
’*• egg custhard, or maybe she’ll overlook ’tis tappy-
ochre be the pot, ’n’ pit pepper, ’n’ salt, ’n’ varis
condimints to ut t’ the immejit ruination iv meals,
n’ the grreat disthress iv mind fer Heffernan, poor
man. ’N’ manny’s the time Willie Heffernan have
U P ’ n ’ sacked Ann McGuire on the shpot, wid up-
roarious criticism ’n’ threats iv action fer damages
t’ the soup ; but Ann is well contint wid her place,
’n she’s a hard wan t’ shift, which me subsiquint
remarks is intended to illusthrate would yeh permit.
Mis a fortnit come Chewsdee Ann made free wid the
shpirit perscribed fer juice fer the duff or what not,
’n’ the dinner resulting’ trim the same was a thing
you’d regard ez a quaint con-fusion, bilave me. The
pitaties was dotted round t’ decorate a mighty wide
rice puding, n’ the fish was all asthray in the cus-
tard, ’n’ the tay was made wid the cabbage water
’r the soup, wan or the other, while the roast iv bafe
was served raw, Ann havin’ ovsthers in her mind,
I’m thinkin’. Fer a matter iv siven min-utes, Willie
Heffernan done a rare sprightly dance on the dinner,
he did, ’n’ then, wid rice pudding on his boots ’n’
pitaties in his hair, he wint straight t’ the sackin’
iv Ann McGuire. ‘Lave me house, yeh harrigan,’ sez
he troo the kayhole, Ann havin’ shut herself to her
own room wid premonitions ’n’ ixpictations iv
throubles t’ come. ‘I will do nothin’ iv the like,
jeh Corkonian ape,’ sez she back to him. ‘Then
I’ll trow yeh out,’ sez he. ‘l’ll have a dthrunken
character no more about me rispictable fam’ly hotel.'
he sez, ‘ruinin’ the reputation ’n’ credit iv the
same.’ Trow me out, me fine buck,’ pipes Ann,
shrill ’n’ game. ‘Come ’n’ trow me out if yer the
man ; but I’ll warn veh there ain’t a stitch iv dacent
clothes twixt me ’n’ the sight iv heaven, ’n’ what
characther, ’r credit, ’r sinse iv decorum will yeh be
havin’ left yeh at all t’ be seen trowin’ a lady into
the open air, ’n’ she wklout a bit iv shkirt ’r annv-
thing t’ cover her?’ Wid that Willie Heffernan
pitched a howl iv baffled rage you’d hear a mile, for
he knew ’twas true, ’n’ Ann t’ thwart him would be
unapproachable be razon iv her havin’ tuck her
clothes off her delib’rit ’n’ wid malicious afore-
thought. ’n’ hid the same. ‘l'll have a warrant t’
shift yeh!’ howls Willie; ‘l’ll fitch the po-lice consh-
table himself wid a warrant.’ ‘Do lit, thin,’ sez Ann
McGuire, ‘hi’ do lit quick if you’re thinkin’, or that
shlit-mouthed, melon-headed Orange oaf, conshtable
McCracken is thinkin’, a bit iv a warrant is a shoot-
able coshtmiie fer a lady t’ be paradin’ the streets
in.’ Heffernan goes rampin' off fer the po-lice, ’n’
McCracken comes in a frindly shpirit, ’n’ holds arrgu-
mints ’n’ disheussions wid Ann troo the same key-
hole. But Ann is that obdurit nothin’ wil shift her
wan way or the other, ’n’ the boarders is gathered
round, ’n’ Willie Heffernan is dancin’ dilarious. ‘ls a
true man ’n’ a ratepayer, ’n’ wan what pays his taxes
'n' trusts the good God, t’ be defied in his own home,
in his own house bought ’n’ paid, be a harrigan ?’ sez
he, ‘a dthrunken harrigan?’ he sez. ‘Becaze she
takes off her shirt, is this woman sooparior t’ the
laws ’n’ the statues, McCracken? She is not. I
know the law, McCracken, ’n’ I’ll have the law on
her.’ ‘Yill have nothin’ ilse on me thin, yeh jumpin’
chimpanzee, wid yer ridiculus little dirthy drab iv
whisker to yer chin,’ squeals Ann back at him.
‘Which I’ve intended t’ riflict on thim whiskers this
manny a day,’ sez she. ‘Arrist that woman!’ sez
Willie, most dthramatic. ‘1 will not,’ sez McCracken,
’tis agin me conschientious schruples,’ he sez. Willie
turns t’ me. ‘l’ll give annj' man tin shillin’s,’ he
sez, ‘will go in ’n’ dthress her. ‘Yill do ut, Callan.’
‘Yer a liar, Heffernan,’ sez I. Heffernan, leppin’
higher than ever, ’n' fair frothin’ wid the fury iv his
immotions, romps round among the boar-rders. ‘l'll
give anny man twinty shillin’ t’ go in ’n’ dhtress
her,’ he sez, ‘or anny woman either.’ Then Mrs.
Brophv shteps forward. ‘l’ll do ut fer thirty,’ she
sez, ‘with another lady t’ hilp me.’ Well, wid a lot
iv persuasion ’n’ cajolement Mrs. Heffernan hersilf
joins wid Mrs. Bropliy. We breaks open the dure a
thrifle, ’n’ pushes the ladies in. ’Tis beyond me
iloquenee ’n’ the abilities iv me vocabulation t’ dish-
scribe to you the roarin’ ructions whin Mrs. Brophy
’n’ hersilf got to Ann McGuire wid intintion to
dthress the same fit t’ be perduced in ividence ’n’
paraded on the public highway. It would nade a
brass band of 50 performers, wid an oxillary foorce
iv twinty hired pipers t’ play it in a way t’ give yeh
anny adequit idea at all. The racket ’n’ riotin’ rose
’n’ fell. Some time ’twas wan screamin’ alone,
another ’twas three tearin’ sthrips out iv high heaven
itself in chorus. The rooination lashted an hour ’r
two, ’r three. Then kim a sort Jv sobbin’ silence,
interspersed wid sighs, ’n’ ‘Can we come in now,
dar-r-lin?’ sez Heffernan, wid his lips t’ the keyhole.
‘You can not!’ yells herself. ‘Don’t you dar’!’ pipes
Mrs. Brophy, high ’n’ shrill. We waits another five
min-utes. ‘We can come in now, dar-r-lin’, maybe?’
sez Heffernan, dubyis ’n’ fearful. ‘Begor ’n’ I’ll kill
yeh if yeh do!’ wails Mrs. Brophy. ‘Becaze why, we
nayther of us have anny more clothes on now than
yer divil iv a cook has.’ ” Callan heaved a sigh.
“Ann McGuire is shtill cookin’ to Heffernan’s Ryle
Fam’ly Hotel,” he said.
DISILLUSIONED.
LADY OF THE HOUSE (sourly): “Did you
wanl to see me?”
HUNGRY HENRY: “ Well , Missus , Oi fought
Oi did. But now Orve seen yez, b"
croipes, Oi don’t! ”
“Te Pana”: According to sundry Abo-
seribes, there’s a crowd of fairly decent divers in
the neighborhood of Torres Strait. Here's at them.
Working for the harbor master in Nukualofa is a
native boy (mixed Wallis Islander and Samoan) who
recently went down 13* fathoms, laid two plugs of
dynamite with a four-minute fuse attached, got clear
of (he disturbance, took another long breath, dis-
appeared, hooked a shackle on to the anchor that
had been freed from the reef by the explosion, came
up, ate a tin of salmon and went home.
THE FLOATING WHISKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
By day and night they float behind!
My track of lone despair
Around this spinning earth must wind
Before a ring of hair!
Once, long ago, a wowser face
Looked through the hairs that float.
As I have fallen far from grace,
I took him for a goat.
I took him for a goat, I say,
And slew him with a stone;
And now upon my lonely way
I fly alone, alone!
For, ere he died, he gave a scream
That made me howl and stare,
And, like a clown in some mad dream,
Leaped through his ring of hair.
Ilis whiskers did not go with him,
But hung in mid-air. He
Leaped like a panther o’er their rim
And fell in agony.
I did not wait to see him die,
But, onward borne by fear,
I flew. Yet, faster far than I,
His whiskers hovered near!
I dare not stop to sleep, for oh!
No matter what the place,
Across my neck they come and go
And tickle at my face.
Though I have poison for them laid,
And shot at them with guns,
They follow —follow unafraid,
And smell of milk and buns.
By night and day they float behind!
My track of lone despair
Around this spinning earth must wind
Till I am mad, and lame, and blind !
The Hair! The Ilalr! THE HAIR!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


-REE OFFET^—^
c
Any “De Reszke” Cigarette
smoker can obtain FREE this
poster by the famous French
artist “ Rilette." 'this picture
contains no reading or advertising
matter) and is printed in colours
on art paper in a size suitable for
framing. To obtain same send j
the lid of a box of “ De Reszke” I
Cigarettes with 2d. in stamps (for
postage and packing) to W- E.
Craven & Co-, York House) York
Street) Sydney) N-S.W-. stating
picture No. 2. Picture No. 1
(Signing a Cheque) can also be
obtained on the same terms.
rA
\
j
, p ?d
r
-
\
r.
\\
;x-
-f
\
/ d:
* >r
£%* \ '
\
5
Rl LETTI
'ssr
ND so Australians can’t tell a really good cigarette when they get one,
r\ <*?
“Well, we’ll soon find out—we’ll ask them.”
That is how we answered our trade friends who said you would not appreciate
the finer qualities of the “De Reszke.”
The fact is, the Tobacco business has been in the hands of dividend-seeking
financiers instead of connoisseurs—men who understand Tobacco. Conse-
quently, Australians have never had an opportunity of smoking fine Cigarettes
as they are understood in England.
We believed Australians would be able to discriminate if they were given the
chance. And it seems we were just about right, for although “De Reszke”
Cigarettes have been on the market here only a little while, the demand has
outgrown even our expectations.
JUST prior to the departure of H.M.A.S. Australia on her maiden voyage,
20,000 “De Reszke” Cigarettes were ordered for the Officers’ Mess, and
we also received an order recently for 50,000 Cigarettes to be supplied
to the Officers’ Mess of H.M.S. Lancaster, this being the largest order ever
placed for a Battleship in His Majesty’s Navy. “I)e Reszke” Cigarettes are
also supplied to the Officers of over 200 Ships in the British Fleet —a unani-
mous verdict in the “De Reszke’s” favor.
We do not want to let these facts alone make you feel that the “De Iteszke” is
a better Cigarette. We want your own taste to tell you so. Hence we ask
you to buy a box and compare them with the brand you usually smoke.
We have confidence in your verdict because we have confidence in the cigarette.
The “De Reszke ” Cigarettes you buy in your own Store are identical in every way with those
that are sold in England. They are made by J. Millhoff & Co., Ltd., 86, Piccadilly, London,
England, and reach you in exactly the same condition as the smoker in England receives them o
Two Kinds —One Quality only—The Best
TtirßisH
in 3
sizes
10
( Basso (extra large)
- Tenor (large)
l Soprano (ladies)
American—one size only
■l9 1/10 ft 3/9
7/6
“De ReszKe” Cigarettes may be obtained from the following
IST. S. WALES REPRESENTATIVE'S: —
H. W. GILLES & CO., 222 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Abrahams, L., Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Aitken, A., Broadway, Glebe, Sydney.
Australia Hotel Ltd., Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Brown, Fred, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Bullen, S., Market Street, Sydney.
Cato, E. J., 423 George Street, Sydney.
Civil Service Co-operative Society* Pitt Street,
■ Sydney.
Clark, E., 167 King Street, Sydney.
Campbell, G. A.. Hunter Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Callaghan, E., Wentworth Falls, N.S.W.
Farmer & Co. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
Fitzmaurice, Mrs. E., Neutral Bay Wharf, Sydney.
Hayne’s Drug Store Ltd., King and Elizabeth Streets,
Sydney.
Howard, T. W., Corso, Manly.
Jones, David, Ltd., George Street, Sydney.
Kleisdorff, It., & Co., 87 King Street, 'Sydney.
Kleisdorff, R., & Co., 47 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Kebblewhite, A., 19 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Lassetter & Co., F., Ltd., George Street, Sydney.
Larsen & Co.. 99 King Street, Sydney.
Lind & Co., E. F., 280 and 398 George Street, Sydney
Marks, A. A., 376 George Street, Sydney; and
Branches: Cr. King and Pitt Streets, Sydney;
177 Oxford Street, Sydney; 97a Darlinghurst
Road, Sydney; 269 King Street, Newtown, Syd-
ney.
Mole & Saxon, 239 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Muir, W. F., 34 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Morris, H., Macquarie Place, Sydney.
McGee, A. A., 5 & 7 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., Ferry Wharves, Sydney.
Paris House Ltd. Phillip Street, Sydney.
Pacific Hotel. Manly, Sydney.
Prescott, T. S., & Co., 17 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Prior Bros., 317 George Street, Sydney.
Ritz Restaurant, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Silversides <te Co., Castlereagh Street, Svdnev.
Solomon, A. M., 173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Simmons Ltd, Mick, Haymarket, and Branches,
Sydney.
Williams, J. W., The Corso, Manly, Sydne3 r .
QUEENSLAND REPRESENTATIVES:—
SHORT & WILKINS, 465 GEORGE STREET, BRIS-
BANE.
Black, R., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Brown, R., Flinders Street, Townsville.
Cavill, Jim, Edward Street, Brisbane.
Costa, C. P., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cooper, S., George Street, ISrisbane.
Dittmer, G., Bowen, Queensland.
Downs, J., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Finney, Isles & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
I'oord, W., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Kipps, J., Cairns, Queensland.
Love, G., Cooktoxvn, North Queensland.
'Macintyre, 0., Queen Street, Brisbane,
d’ike Brothers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Reniitson, K., Kuranda, N.Q.
Snurgin, C. A., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Thompson, P., Rockhampton, Queensland.
VICTORIAN REPRESENTATIVES
G. DAMMAN & CO., COLLINS and SWANSTON
STREETS, MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:—
WM. CORNELL & CO., 55 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES:—
SAUNDERS & NATHAN, 729 HAY STREET. PERTH
NEW ZEALAND REPRESENTATIVES:—
D. O. RAMSAY & CO., 153 EEATHERSTONE
STREET, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
If any difficulty in obtaining
“De ReszKe” Cigarettes please write to
W. E. CRAVEN & CO., 222 Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
t 6
De Reszke
naff Gmratte-5
Fishtr't Advertising Agency.


WINFRED" CIGARETTES
w
tsf
p 3
R
E
D
c
i
o
A
B
\
V/
S v
7
H
• -"‘"T
fe
&
jfc
««W-'* f v n
V
V K
n
THE MATCH OF' THE SEASON:
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
IS
1
A
io
FOR
6°
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
Of ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO,, LTD., London Eng
20
FOR
1-
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Marinoa”: Of all the jobs under the sun the
union secretary’s is about the least enviable. i
know ; I’ve had some. When a man tries to find a
peaceable solution of any slight difficulty, he is a
bosses’ pimp. When he gets up and counsels the
men to stand firm, shoulder to shoulder, with then
backs against the wall, to keep their powder dry, ana
so on, he is an agitator who is out to make a name
for himself and get into Parliament. If Smith is a
miners’ secretary, with 20 or 30 lodges unter his
control, he can safely calculate on having five men
in each centre who are convinced they would m;uc
ideal general secretaries, and that the man holding
the position and keeping them out of it is a person
of no character. As these are the men who attend
lodge meetings most regularly, and talk the loudest,
thev pack his life with troubles. Usually he gets
paid a little less than the average competent miner.
All round, in fact, the average unionist, who is
always crying out for increases in his own screw, is
bitterly opposed to paying any more than he can
possibly help to the man who fights for him. His
expenses are scanned closely, and lie is humiliated
(he would like to be amused, but his job’s hanging
to it) by having to explain why he spent 18d. on
a meal on the 3rd inst., when then there was a
shilling restaurant within half a mile. During a
strike the secretary is a particularly unhappy mor-
tal. Very often his screw is cut down, and he is
expected to address three or four meetings a day, at
each of which he has to answer charges of pandering
to his enemies, in between being hauled over the
coals by the rest of the picnic for being too mili-
tant. Added to these trifles, he runs the risk at all
times of being put in gaol for inciting the men to
strike. And past experience has shown that there
are no bouquets for the union secretary who has done
time in gaol for fighting for what is called the
Cause.” If he doesn’t get precipitated on his ear
his reputation as an agitator frightens the more wary
members of the organisation, and they shy from his
suggestions on every conceivable occasion. 1 m still
a unionist. But I’m not a union secretary any more.
And there’s trouble brewing for the man who sug-
gests that I should become one.
* * * *
There is money in flying if the aviator goes in for
carrying passengers. The lost Hamel was the only
birdman who regularly looped the loop with paying
guests,” his fee being £5O. Kven at that figure he
was rushed. Hucks, another up-side-down English
performer, charges 10 guineas for an ordinary flight.
The recognised charge for cross-country flying is 15s.
a mile for return journeys and 20s. a mile for single
journevs. As the modern aeroplane scoots along at
over a mile a minute, an aviator, under favorable
conditions, can rake in about £7O an hour. At the
Ilendon Aerodrome, just outside London, the fees for
short flights run from two to five guineas, and every
fine Sunday afternoon an average of 60 passengers
are taken up. There is a golden harvest awaiting
anyone who embarks on the same business in Aus-
tralia —though only Omniscience knows how long it
will last.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Re the great cabbage question in Syd-
ney (B. 4/6/’l4). Last season I planted somewhere
near 40,000 cabbages, and, after paying all expenses,
I can safely say that my whack of the proceeds was
well within £2O. Planting cabbages all day is a
strenuous game, and a pile of work must be put in
while the crop is growing. The risks are very great,
too; principal among them are dry weather and the
fly. One man near me planted 88,000 in one patch,
and didn’t cut more than 1000 out of the lot. Any-
how, good crops or bad, the cabbage cocky, like every
other cocky, will never do much for himself until he
cuts out the middleman. When that gentleman goes,
producer and consumer will benefit alike.
“F.C.”: Recent arguments in Melbourne about
spring balances —mostly ending in a fine of 20s. or
so —have moved the municipal councils to ask Par-
liament for power to prohibit, or at least regulate,
their use. Whereat the Master Butchers’ Ass. has
fumed, and suggested that not only should these
scales be allowed, but that, if found to weigh falsely,
the user should be merely ordered to put them right.
It is a great idea; and if applied to the burglar
should just suit him. As a matter of fact,
every spring balance on earth is false after it bas
been used a little, and the more it is used the worse
it gets; also it gives relatively less weight Of
to the small purchaser than to the large one, '•
toria doesn’t allow the small truck-pushing hawker to
use the common English spring-balance; why should
it let the big butcher use an equally-unreliable n
more ornate contraption? #
“Lud”: Private ownership of motors is going out
of fashion here in London. The companies keep on
extending their arrangements. A car worth £ J UUU
can be hired for a year for £326, with chauffeur
thrown in and the company taking every risk. ine
chauffeur will even be put into livery if you like.
What is the use of owning a car under such circum-
stances ?
* * *
The draining of the Rangitaiki Swamp (M L.), one
of the biggest land-reclaiming schemes yet attempted
in 10U Land, looks suspiciouly like a success. ine
main work was the diversion of the Rangitaiki
River, a new, direct channel being cut to the sea to
do away with a meandering course and the “owing
of much waste water over much good country, me
new river was opened at the end of May, and, though
a big flood happened about that time, the water in
the swamp area quickly sank to several feet below
the lowest recorded mid-summer level. ’That alone
is sufficient to bring thousands of acres under culti-
vation. The engineers expect to wipe the swamp
out entirely in the course of a couple of years, and to
make it the best piece of dairying country in Massey-
land. About £30,000 of loan money has so tar
been expended on the venture, but it is proposed to
get this back quickly by a special rate that will he
calculated on the basis of the benefit derived from
the scheme by each individual landowner.
A new automatic stamping machine has been put on
the market in Maoriland. The machine now m the M.L.
post offices has dies ranging only from id. to Is., and
is slow in action. To print lOd. you have to turn the
handle three times. The improved model will stamp
any sum up to £5 19s. llld. with a single turn ol
the handle. Levers are pulled down, after the manner
of a cash register, to make the sum it is desired to
stamp, and the amount is then exhibited on an indi-
cator beneath a piece of glass. The letters and
telegrams disappear through a slot when the handle
is turned and are picked up out of a box beneath duly
franked.
* * * *
An English Parliamentary committee, inquiring
into the queer things England eats, has brought to
light a pleasant method of treating “slinks” and the
carcases of three-day-old lambs to make them loot
like the decent remains of matured beasts, and fit
for a Christian menu. The process is called ‘blow-
ing,” and is nothing more than a simple trick ot
inflating the carcase with wind. An apparatus like
a bicycle pump is brought into play, and the meat
is literally puffed till a leg of lamb, which might in
ordinary circumstances be taken for the hind limb
of a jack rabbit, begins to present some reasonable
semblance to a joint. By this blowing, the commit-
tee was assured, the body of a three-days’ calf. can be
made to look several weeks old. What inflated veal
eats like the committee was not informed. Of course
the fraud is not new —what is it the Bible says about
filling bellies with the east wind ?
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: Milne, the husband of our wash-lady, is
very willing, but somewhat lacking in discernment.
For instance, when I gave him a job to dig up the
garden, he did dig up the garden : but he also dug
up the gravel walk. I met Milne the other day. He
was in trouble about a written character a music
warehouse had given him. He had presented the
testimonial that morning when applying for a billet
to canvass somebody’s wonderful medical book, and
had narrowly escaped being kicked downstairs. “That
has happened several times,” said Milne. “You might
look into it for me.” I did. The written recom-
mendation ran: “We can earnestly recommend the
bearer, James Milne, to any firm wanting a steady
man. We never knew a steadier, and only had no
further use for him after he had spent a day endeav-
oring to sell our phonographic records at the Deaf
and Dumb Asylum.—Signed, & Co.”
A determined effort is being made in Adelaide to
Rouelch a proposed Motor-’Bus Co. Those support-
ing it say the ’bus has been a success everywhere
c iK, and must be the same in Adelaide. The
opposition replies that, with really swift and cheap
electric trams running everywhere about the citj,
there is no need for the’bus ; and even if the'bus were
a success it could only be so at the expense of the
people who own the trams, and will have to make
losses good. By way of a compromise, the Tram
Trust has decided to get in first, and run a fleet
of motor-’buses itself—presumably in the way that
will do the existing electric services the least harm.
* * *
“Wed”: I wonder if Mileuke Kaithenitch, Comte
de Montreforte, who is diking roundl the world for
the usual silly wager (B. 18/6/ 14/, is at alt
refated to the Marquis de Sonata, acquaintance
1 made in Melbourne recently ? the Marquis pueneu
ihe usual tale regarding his travels, and asked, as a
afof Tf 1 would give\im a letter setting out the
fact that he had called on me on a certain date.
As far as I could make out, he required this to prove
that he had actually visited the places specified in
liis “around the world” itinerary. The request being
so unusually mild was at once granted; but on
pocketing the letter the Marquis suddenly remembered
that he had an excellent line of cigars to sell at 30s.
per hundred, with his signature on the box-lid
thrown in. Isn’t it about time walking-round-the-
world adventurers were declared notifiable diseases,
noxious weeds, or something ?
TWO-POUND-TEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australians are .inclined to abandon the principle
of self-help There are leaning-posts set up at
everv corner of our daily life. . . .The work of capital-
ists is being thwarted and neutralised because Labor
Governments pander to a cry for feeding-bottles and
soft corners to lie in The new idea is to whittle
working hours down to little or nothing, and to
raise wages to limits beyond the dreams of avarice.
—Patriotic leading article from, the Sydney Morning
’Arold. „ . ,
The minimum wage for subsistence for a man with
a wife and three children should be raised to about
two-pounds-ten.— Decision of Arbitration Judges .
I do agree with ’Arold it would be extremely nice
To go and make a pile beyond the dreams of av-ar-ice ;
And also I can tell you straight I’m ’arf-inelined to
squeak
For something past my average of forty bob a week:
With forty-five I’d take me place among the wealthy
men;
But, Cripes, a bloke’s a Croesus if he draws his
two-pound-ten.
From ’Arold, likewise Percy, comes a sharp and
sudden cry
That Higginses and Heydons make our wages much
too high;
Sprat after sprat the rates go up, increasing ’Arold’s
woe,
Whilst “uppish” and “intractable” the working-
classes grow.
Says ’Arold: “As I’ve knowh Sir James to mention
now and then,
The common swarm gits far too fresh if making two-
pound-ten.”
The chap who lives, through rain and shine, on
seven bob a day
Would be a sinful prodigal to chuck a bob away ;
He’d hardly have a racing stud, or keep a polo
string,
But make it eight-and-six, he’ll splash his gilt like
anything!
With workmen made as rich as that we’re upside
down agen ;
A bloke could own the Union Club who had his
two-pound-ten.
Behold the pampered workingman! Observe him how
he swanks!
He orders fizz at Paris House in fifty-gallon tanks ;
His car beats Snowy Baker’s bad, you bet your
blooming life!
There’s quite five hundred ermines in the fur he gave
his wife ;
His hydroplane makes Hordern’s like an old and
draggled hen.
Gor’struth, he’d drive a comet if you gave him two-
pound-ten !
His dream of avarice is just to lean against a post,
And spend his fifty bob a week on quail served up
on toast;
While Rockefeller toils and sweats he leads a life
of sin,
And drinks champagne for breakfast with the neigh-
bors that drop in ;
His lordly mansion in the ’Loo is very lively when
Him and the other Midases hit up their two-pound-
ten.
N.S.W.
ADAM McCAY.
A CHAMPION OF LIBERTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rockefeller the greater, when begged to make
some decent sacrifice with a view to ending the
desperate condition brought about by the etnke m
his big mines at Colorado (U.S.A.), replied that the
whole responsibility now rested with Rockefeller,
iunior. The appeal was then made to Lhe more
uvenile Money Grub, the God-fearing Sunday-school-
teachinsr Gold Bug ; and Rockefeller 11. replied. I
will never draw back. I will spend my millions, if
need be, in preserving the rights of free labor.
When first he started to enhance
Papa’s accumulated dollars,
This youth, who turns from high finance
To preach the Word to Sabbath scholars,
Assisted in the pleasant toil
Of breaking people who competed
With Dad in dealing out the oil;
And merrily, by hook or crook,
He brought opposing firms to book,
And all their childish schemes defeated.
He chose the persons to be crushed,
And crushed them all with marked complete-
ness ;
Then when the crumbs were neatly brushed,
He sang a hymn in simple sweetness.
“Free Labor” is a noble creed —
To save it is his earthly glory ;
Ilis sentiments about it read
Like good, swashbuckling of the kind
That in old Bible tales we find.
“Free business” is another story!
“Free Labor” free is to bestow
Its blood at rates to suit the buyer;
But oil is more than blood, and so
The seller puts his prices higher.
Sweet Freedom in the country thrives;
Rock, junior holds his quaint revival's,
And tells the workers and their wives
That “Live and let live” is a true
And noble saw to live up to —
Now he has eaten all his rivals!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


r-i E. ARNE’S
The remedy in the world for COUGHS Sr COLDS
HEARNE’S B ro " c ™ tis
THIS Medicine can be given with PERFECT SAFETY and COM-
PLETE CONFIDENCE to the YOUNGEST CHILD and most
AGED PATIENT, as it does NOT and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs. The REPUTATION of and the DEMAND
for HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE are BIGGER now than ever.
“I am a Nurse and have recommended HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure to many sufferers.
I have known it to be successful when all other Medicines failed. For Bronchitis it is
simply WONDERFUL. It saved my son’s life.” R WATSON, Frankston.
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure is obtainable from all RELIABLE CHEMISTS and STOREKEEPERS.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis
Cure
the
Remedy
with the
Reputation
rr
v\
n
P"
xm
«
%/
MAP
l
354
m
- hi
m
u
\
n
u
u
'v*
»2
:
1,:,m
w»
mm.
a
m
kss^
a
as
t
I
&
.MiU
;i
\\\
\
7,
A
If any trouble experienced in
getting it, send direct to
W. G. HEARNE & CO.
LIMITED
GEELONG, VICTORIA
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1. MILK FOOD No. 2.
From birth to 3 months. From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD NO. 3.
From 0 months upwards.
The *ARB@sibus*ys’ Husks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome tim#
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and market Street, Sydney.
iMenburgs Foods
There is no need for Australians to
US€
imported tooth pastes. The proprie-
tors of
EUPENTA
invite The Bulletin readers to test
without expense this popular
TOOTH PASTE
No dentifrice from abroad can compare
with the peppermint flavored (blue
box') Eudenta.
1/- per tube.
Write to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CD., Melbourne,
for a free sample, or, if Eudenta is un-
obtainable from your chemist or store,
send 1/3 in stamps for a large tube,
which will be sent post free.
nr
EUDENTA Preserves and
Whitens the Teeth.
“THE LONE HAND” for Good Stories and Bright Articles. Price 6d*


Honev Jar, pure Silver-plated,
7/6
Other Styles, 8/G, 10/G,
12/6, 15/6.
Oak Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 25/-
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver, richly
burnished and hand-pierced, 25/*
AUNDERS
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER
Beautiful Silverware!
Sugar Scuttle, pure Silv
plated, hand-engraved,
21/-
Teapot, pure Silver-plated, hand-engraved
and fluted, 30/-
Solid Silver
Candlestick
15/6.
A newly published Supplement
of which, is free for the asking.
Three-tier Cake or Fruit Stand, pure
Silver-plated Frame, handsome liand-
painted China Dishes, 63/-
Fruit Dish and Spoon, pure Silver-plated, Nickel-
Silver Base, Hand-painted, floral China Dish, 30/-
Butter Dish, English Oak, real Porce-
lain China Lining, 25/-
Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, highly burnished, 40/-
Specimen Tub e,
pure Silver-plated,
hand-burnished gilt
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
Dinner Cruet, pure Silver-plated
Frame, Crystal Glass Bottles,
Jardiniere, pure Silver-plated,
richly hand-embossed, 25/-
Larger, 32/6; Full size, 40/-
Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-plated, Cut
Crystal Glass, 17/6.
807-817 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
Nestles Milk
The Household
Wonder
£**
t »' 4 -n
'Pi**
• «
f,
B
W
u
vs
vM
r 3
j-i
11
//iWfl
vi
m,e
iiuH'
/ W
M
'^f.V
£2
1 v,^;
z
o
r
e^o
r
i?M
<•s*o
z
m
in
' •:' \
N
I
••uii
v.*
‘l'u
w
»'.j?
3"
tM:
i
s*-
SiJ
«<
m
((((At""'
yk
<1
cO
K
CSSS
M
mi.
W
i
M
zr>
•:-.N
5
f,it
>'3
n
\


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined). Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the
Zealand. SWAT LOWEST CURRENT
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers
up to 20 per cent, "of the loan during any year, without notice
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F.
Knox, Esq., K.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and
F.F.A.. F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
the Security of Government
Australian States or New
RATES OF INTEREST.
the privilege of repaying
or payment of any fine.
Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Actuary; Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
H. W. APPERLY. Secretary.
When Peter Dawson sings
even the most restless audience must listen with
keen appreciation.
Whether one hears him in a sentimental ballad or
a rollicking song of the sea or the battlefield, there
is real artistry expressed by his robust voice, and
real ability shown in his fine command of it.
“His Master’s Voice”
Records
by this popular singer (who opens in the Town Hall on the 7th) are
wonderfully true to life. These are but selections from his records: —
4/3
10-INCH
3-2338 Three For Jack.
3-246(5 The Admiral’s Broom.
3-2239 Bedouin Love Song 1 .
3-2396 O Star of Eve (Tannliauser).
3-2791 I Fear No Foe.
3-2310 Blow! Blow! Thou Winter Wind.
3- Hylirias, the Cretan.
4- Love and Wine (Gipsy Love).
12=INCH
02372 Mama.
02393 Anchored.
02412 At Santa Barbara.
02453 I Fear No Foe.
02385 Sincerity.
02420 The Floral Dance.
02442 Unless.
6/6
Complete record lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest dealer on request.
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
Australian Souvenirs
in Great Variety at
Manufacturer’s Prices.
1
Qi
This Souvenir Inkstand, in durable Nickel, Silver-plated
massive and handsome. Postage paid.
27/6.
“All-Australia” Serviette Bing, showing the
three most popular “Natives.” Novel and attrac-
tive. Price only
7/6.
Full Catalog Free on Request.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
SPECIFY
• • ©
SIEMENS
Electric Light and Power Cables
FOR YOUR INSTALLATIONS.
We will be Pleased to Quote for
C.M.A. Vulcanized Rubbers*Lead
Covered Paper Insulated Cables
Manufactured by SIEMENS BROTHERS & CO. LTD., Woolwich, England.
" 7 • \
SIEMENS BROTHERS DYNAMO WORKS Ltd.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.


HEALTH RESTORED.
GUNNEDAII MOTHER’S GRATEFUL
PRAISE OF DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
Mrs. Mary Doran, who is an old and
respected resident of Gunnedali, sends the
following letter, accompanied by her photo,
in praise of Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills: “Six-
teen years ago the
doctor recom-
mended a slight
operation,” writes
Mrs. Mary Doran,
_of Barber Street,
Gunn edah,
“but I would
not hear of it,
although the
doctor assured
me it would
only be of a
slight nature,
but it Avas
necessary, he
'•'"3
v
JTO
ary<3yorap.
From a Photo.
T , . , _ , inwugiu. nuw-
e yer, 1 t 0 a X old ifc > ancl having heard
of Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills from my
triends, there and then decided upon giving
them a trial to see if they would strengthen
me. I may say that I am glad that I took
that step of trying Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They thoroughly rehabilitated my
health, and restored my strength; they are
invaluable as a family medicine, and ever
since have occupied a foremost position in
our household. I am a native of Gunne-
dah, and an old and respected resident. I
can sincerely recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, feeling that their use restored
me w r hen in a weak condition to a renewal
of life. I am now never without them, and
accordingly testify openly to their efficacy.*
HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
. people besides physicians realise Ihp
importance of keeping the food contents of
tt stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind —the results of fermenting food in the
stomach. To secure perfect digestion, fer-
mentation must be stopped or prevented,
and the acid neutralised. For this purpose
physicians usually recommend getting a little
bisurated magnesia from the chemist and
taking half a teaspoonful in a little hot or
cold water immediately after eating. They
recommend bisurated magnesia because it is
pleasant to take, has no disagreeable after
effects, _ and instantly stons fermentation,
neutralises the acid and makes the sour
acid food bland, sweet and easily digested.
The regular use of bisurated magnesia—be
sure you get the bisurated, as other kinds
of magnesia are of little value—is an abso-
lute guarantee of healthy, normal digestion,
for it overcomes and prevents that acid
condition which alone is the cause of
trouble.*
HORSESHOE
SALMON
is Richer than Meats and contains the
amount of Fat.—lt is even better
than fresh flsh because it is cooKed in the
can, therefore none o/ the goodness can
escape. Always insist on “Horseshoe.”
It’s DELICIOUSLY FRESH
POLITICAL
POINTS
Behold, the smash cometh. The Sydney-
North Shore Ferry Co. is going to double
its service, and its boats will dodge the
narrow scarp of the precipice of death twice
as often as heretofore. And unless some-
one hurries up like the very devil, and
builds the bridge which Henry Parkes, of
the tremendous whiskers and the dubious
cheque, promised in the 60’s of last century,
something will happen very soon to a dead
certainty or thereabouts.
POLITICAL EGOTISM.
We have spent a great deal more on public works
than the}' did. We have got a move on in the great
projects with which they dallied. The transcontinen-
tal railway is being rapidly built. Telegraph and tele-
phone lines have been multiplied. The Northern Terri-
tory is commencing to develop upon well dcfired and
statesmanlike lines. The Federal capital is leing evol-
ved upon a plan which was laid down by the best
authority obtainable, etc. —Joseph Cook modestly.
TEMPORARY HEAD GARDENER : "Honderful
how the trees sprouted since I got this job
yesterday! ”
Recently the Quambatook (Vic.) branch
of the “People’s Party” resolved that “S.
Mauger’s conduct in the Senate pre-election
had alienated Liberal sympathy, and that
he be requested to stand down; but that,
if approved by the executive, it pledged it-
self to vote the Liberal ticket.” Neverthe-
less, as everybody knows, there are no
“machine politics” on the Liberal side.
Tiie Bulletin would not like to swear
that Joe Cook really said it; but his friend
the Sydney Telegraph certainly printed it
this way on June 22: —
lie asked true Liberals not to believe these charges,
for nine out of 10 of them had not a little of truth in
them.
Five expensive architects —a Briton, a
Frenchman, a Yankee, an Austrian and one
Australian —are to judge the designs for the
Federal Parliament House at Dryberra, and
allot the prizes—eight of them totalling
£OOOO. Why eight prizes should be allotted
for one Parliament House at Dryberra, only
the Cook Government knows. Anyhow there
is to be one resident of Australia on the
judging committee! Who will say that
native talent doesn’t get a look in once in a
while?
“F.C.”: Alexander Peacock had barely
time to drop back into the Victorian Pre-
mier’s chair, vacated by Watt, and to laugh
once, when one of the supports of his
Ministry doubled up. The Tories threaten to
quit the new Premier unless they get some
of the portfolios, and Peacock doesn’t feel
like lending his tail feathers to such doubt-
ful friends. Of course the Tories can’t form
a Ministry by themselves. Nor can they
coalesce with Labor. But, with luck and
good management, they can keep every-
body else out, including themselves,
until something new happens, and with
that useless process of breakage their
chance ends. Peacock was still laughing
when last heard of, but the trouble has got
on Murray’s nerves, and he threatens to
amble exhaustedly out of politics and go
home to bed.
Dark ways and vain tricks are exemplified in
the case of Poon Gooey. A couple of years ago
all the Little Bethels of Victoria wept bitter
tears because ,’Siah Thomas, then political
head of the Chinese Exclusion
Department, would not permit
any more additions to the col-
ored population through the
medium of the Gooeys. Mrs.
Gooey had come to Australia
under a permit with her hus-
band, who was domiciled here ;
but before the six months’ resi-
dence concession period was up
there was unmistakable evi-
dence that Gooey had carefully
calculated things, and laid his
plans in China. Mrs. Gooey
could not leave until her baby
was born. A further exemption
was utilised by Boon Gooey for
laying more plans, and a second
baby prevented the woman’s
departure. Thomas then pre-
vailed, despite several deputa-
tions of Methodists, and the
final scene was played in the
Minister’s room, when Thomas
was solemnly told that Gooey
was .so attached to his wife that
lie had decided to sacrifice all
his business interests in Aus-
tralia and go back to China
rather than be separated from
her. The adult Gooeys and the
two little Goo-gooeys departed.
Now Gooey has informed his
Geelong friends by letter that
he is coming back “with the
object of again engaging in
business.” _ The two little
Gooeys will also come, pre-
sently, for being born in Aus-
, „ P'Mia they are Australian citi-
- ns , and thus a couple more yellow streaks
are added as a permanent thing to our good
white country. 8
Another “socialistic experiment” is pro-
jected by the N.S.W Government. It is
proposed to induce doctors to establish
themselves in places where the population
is not sufficient to give them a living, bv
guaranteeing a certain income, and making
good the difference between the amount re-
“? vecl . in fees and the amount guaranteed.
Ihe doctor—and this is a part of the
scheme that calls for three cheers—is to
have at his house two beds for casualty or
urgent cases, with a “bush nurse” in charge
maintained by the State. The idea is limited
to townships not less than 20 miles from a
public hospital, and the bush hand whom it
will benefit, and who is liable to ail man-
ner of painful accidents, will turn hand-
springs of joy when it is put into effect.
It has been decided (47 votes to 25) to
hang the portrait of Oom Bill Lyne on the
wall of Sydney Trades Hall. But the pro-
position got through only after bitter argu-
ment. In particular one backsliddery person
—Burns of the Ironworkers— threw a clod
at Bill’s memory with the statement that
Ins two great works—arbitration and old-
age pensions—are “no good to the workers”
And nobody suggested that the objector
should be expelled for blasphemy, or verbal
scabbing, or something, against'two of the
® ost J lO J y Pl an ks of the Labor platform.
Ihe Labor platform receives very little
consideration at times from its own alleged
adherents.
THE DAY-BANED BREAD.
Bakers are more directly the servants of the public than any other class of employee. It is showing
a callous disregard for their fellow men if, for no good reason, they condemn a majority of the popula-
tion; to eat stale bread. —Melbourne paper.
MRS. AGE: “Callous wretch, this loaf is almost as cold at your heart. How am I to
eat it?”
CALLOUS ONE : “ Weep on it till it's quite damp , and then put it in the oven to get
new again."
Carr, M.H.R. for Macquarie (N.S.W.),
made a novel suggestion at Bathurst last
Saturday. He said that “he dreaded nothing
so much as a country controlled by officials,”
and one remedy which he proposed was that
the members of the civil service should elect
part of the Board which controls the service.
It seems a roundabout idea, though on the
surface it is the kind of thing which is likely
to buy popularity. At present the people, who
pay the civil service and of whom the civil
service forms a small part, elect Carr and
his colleagues. Carr and his colleagues
appoint the Civil Service Board on such
terms and conditions as they think fit. Now
it seems that Carr and co., elected by the
people (including the civil service), can’t
trust themselves to find satisfactory per-
manent heads for the civil service. So a
small part of the people (the civil service)
is to elect men to help decide what the great
mass of the people are to pay to that small
part. _ On the same basis will one-third of
the directors of the new Labor paper be
elected by the subscribers and advertisers,
and one-third by the compositors, machinists,
reporters, etc. Incidentally, the writer has
heard it said by both State and Federal civil
servants that the trouble doesn’t lie in
getting reasonable increases of pay allowed
by the official heads of the civil service-, but
in the fact that politicians who flute so
much about the rights of the people often
won’t pay the reasonable increases when
they are allowed. And as a result civil
servants of high attainments and long ex-
perience sometimes toil for wages that a
pick-and-shovel expert would look at side-
ways, and when a scrap of extra pay is
allowed them on paper it may be six or
seven months before it eventuates in cash.
The latest programme of the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment includes everything—except about
four things. The Daceyville scheme in Syd-
ney is to be extended. There are to be a
sort of State building society in Sydney for
the benefit of “workers” only; a State flour
mill in or near Sydney; State distribution
of bread in Sydney ; State meat in Sydney ;
State market gardens adjacent to Sydney ;
State fish market in Sydney supplied by
State trawlers; State ironworks ; State agri-
cultural implement factory; reduced work-
ing hours; universal Saturday half-holiday,
special reduction in the working hours of
miners, and some sundries. But there is
no mention of (1) a reduction in the public
debt; (2) a diminution of borrowing; (3)
a re-establishment of the sinking fund—re-
afforestation is mentioned, but no replant-
ing of the sinking fund; nor (4) any guar-
antee that the new enterprises will be kept
on a solvent basis. Premier Holman has a
marvellous capacity for omission. In fact,
the thing he omits is the bulk of the alleged
State Labor programme.
ON THE ROAD TO RUIN.
Never, indeed, was there a political cause in Aus-
tralia which needed greater enthusiasm and optimism
to support it. — S. M. Herald on Liberalism.
JOSEPH (who feels he must be enthusiastic
about something): “ W-w-what a l-l-lovely
day!"
THE N.S.W. LAND AGENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
llow doth the little Land Agent
“Improve” each country lease,
And hurry up the Government
To buy a little piece.
Ildw patiently he waits upon
The Ministerial mat
To earn a large com-mis-si-on,
Expenses, and all that!
And when the job is hustled through,
By “influence” and “dash,”
How doth the little Agent rue
The absence of the cash !
How doth he curse the owner, then,
And swear he is no sport?. . . .
And brazenly, before all men,
Collect his cheque in court!
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.
SOME MORE “PERMANENT AND REPRO-
DUCTIVE!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Per!th, Wednesday.—The State laborers on the
jetty hnd foreshore works at Port Iledland are on
strike.| They insist that the ruling wage is £4 10s.
per wbek, and as the Government Engineer refuses
to raise the pay from 13s. 4d. to 15s. a day they
have downed tools; while the tide proceeds to wash
away the half-done work. —News item.
“Permanent and reproductive”
,Is the shibboleth seductive
Used by Ministers, like Robinson and Jones,
When, unblushingl-y, they’re goin’,
“Cap in hand” to Uncle Cohen,
For another of their all-too-frequent loans.
“Permanent and reproductive!”
But the Ocean is destructive,
And past count are all the sums of £ s. d.
Spent on “works,” half-done, that crumbled
While the strike was “on,” and tumbled
In the permanent and reproductive Sea !
Ay di mi!
N.S.W.
O. C. C.


< H
1914
1874 —4O years ago
Tbe Celebrated
LIPP PIANO
was
Leader Among Pianos.
O-DAY —“THE EIPP” is a household word in
thousands of homes —and whenever asked by their
friends “ Can you recommend a reliable piano ? ”
owners of the Lipp piano point to
the instrument and say : “ There
is a reliable piano. It has given us years of pleasure and been through some
trying times, but it is still reliable—still rich and full in tone, and we can
honestly recommend it; in fadt, we would not dream of parting with it.”
WE not only recommend “THE LIPP,” but we fully guarantee it as
a piano that will give yon and your family honest value —it will
last a lifetime.
Send to-day for Catalogue and Price List —they are post free; also The
Claviola Booßlet, describing the ILipp-Claviola Player Piano,
the world’s finest player.
Write to-day a post-card will do.
We take old pianos in part-payment.
m
.V' . > j r w -
taltnSia ■ ■ j ,$1
Sold on
Easy
Time
Payments
PALINGS,
338 Georg'e St.,
SYDNEY
And at Newcastle, Lismore, Brisbane, Toowoomba
THE LEVIATHAN
SQUARE DEAL
SfflEoa
6&15
The Real Thing in
Bargain Times.
With its coming every
price in our vast store
has dropped to zero.
Square Deal
Tailoring.
2 SPLENDID SPECIALS.
AT
6716
You are of-
fered the High-
grade fabrics
and splendid
Tailoring of
our 77/6 Suits to Order,
A clear half-sovereign saved !
AT
5216
Our Mail
Order Special
Suit. We con-
fess it. W e
simply c a n’t
reduce the price on this
already wonderful suit value.
It is at all times the biggest
and most genuine of bargains.
Write for Patterns and Self=-measurement Forms.
THE LEVIATHAN,
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
For Amateur or Professional
there is no better Camera than tbe
a
EMPRESS
99
-■ >
wWia
This Camera, 2-Plate Size, Complete
witb Lens, Shatter and Tripod, at
£4/2 ! 6
is RemarKable
Value.
The empress is a Camera with many special features that
make it stand out as a most modern and complete Stand
Camera. It has an Extra Long Extension, Extreme Rising
and Falling Front, Double Swing Back and all modern move-
ments necessary for Telephoto or Wide Angle Work.
It is fitted with an Ensign Lens, and Thornton-Pickard
Roller Blind Shutter for Time and Instantaneous Work, Two-
fold Ash Tripod that fits to a Turntable Base on the Camera.
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, WRITE
OR CALL FOR PARTICULARS.
CATALOGUES FREE ON REQUEST.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
Branches in Each State and New Zealand.


Sir Alex. Peacock’s vocal asset is now the
Victorian Premier’s laugh triumphant. The
formula for achieving triumph in politics
and other sport is simply well modulated
appeals, at the urgent moment, to the con-
quering brand, King George IV. topnotch
whisky.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents; RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
The New “Scott’s"
—Hotel
is now almost completed, and when
opened early in July will be
The Finest Hotel in
Australia.
The position is the most central and
convenient in Melbourne, and the
accommodation and cuisine perfect.
Private attendance, ’phones and hot
and cold water service in every room.
Coll i i)S Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOW OUR GRANDMOTHERS
MANAGED TO LOOK YOUNG
AT SIXTY.
It is strange,” remarked an old chemist
the other day, “that so many women nowa-
days persist in trying all sorts of injurious
patent systems and complicated treatments,
hoping to restore ruined complexions or
improve the appearance of their skins,
when they might easily do so by the
simple home remedies of their grand-
mothers. In olden times a woman
looked comparatively young at sixty, while
now most women have blemished complexions
long before they are thirty. Yet nothing
new has been invented anything like so effec-
tive as the old-time lotion used by famous
French Court beauties, such as Recamier and
Du Barry, to preserve their youthful appear-
ance. The recipe was so simple: just 2oz.
rosewater, 1 dram tincture of benzoin, and
2oz. ordinary flowers of oxzoin, which anv
chemist will supply. Mix the lotion well,
then apply with a soft cloth. If you apply
it regularly it will not only keep the skin
free from wrinkles, _ but will quickly restore
the dullest complexion. My own daughter
is nearly fifty years old, and in this way she
keeps her face looking so young and fresh
that most people think she has not reached
the age of thirty-five.”
The above advice indicates such a simple,
harmless means to rejuvenate the appearance ,
that it is published for the benefit of lady
readers .*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Frank Meyers, who heat the V.R.C.
stewards so badly in the Blackpool disqualification
case, heaped coals of fire on their heads the other
week. As soon as his disqualification was cancelled
that shrewd business man resumed big turf “luck” —
which looks uncommonly like sound judgment—and
won some good races and big bets. Whereupon he
presented the V.R.C. stewards with a cheque for
£lOO for their Distressed Jockeys’ Fund, suggesting
that other successful owners could afford to follow
his lead. But the stewards forgot to mention either
the donation or the hint of Hevers to the press. As
a mattei- of fact, the richest owners on the Turf
never think of flinging a bit into the D.J.F. Or per-
haps they think of it arid decide not to do it.
Saturday is the first of the Grand National
meeting at Flemington, and the three-miles Hurdle Race
is the matter of principal importance in punting
circles just now. Once again Obi is favorite among
the top weights, and having only 61b. more to carry
than when he romped away from the opposition a
year ago the evergreen battler seems bound to go
close —bar accidents. An accident may happen even
to a hurdler with two wins and a place to his credit.
Discussion resolves itself mostly into the question
as to whether anything can beat Obi (list. 131 b.).
To the writer’s way of thinking; several of - the lighter
weights have chances to stay in front of the cham-
pion and Clontaft from start to finish. The 3-year-
old Sir Prim (fist. 121 b.), by Sir Tristram; and the
4-year-old Beccassine (9st. 61b.), by Bobadil, are
improving juveniles at the game. Seeing the Bec-
cassine shows a tendency to lameness, a quid on Sir
Prim would be the sounder investment. No 3-year-
old has ever won a Grand National, because none
has ever attempted the feat. It seems time for the
unprecedented to happen, and Sir Prim may do the
trick. At. any rate, lie looks an honest performer.
The fact that he lost his jockey at Caulfield the
other day is Hot to be counted against him.
The Tote distended itself to some purpose
at Auckland (M.L.) during the racing season just
closed. In 11 days of raoing £495,651 was pushed
through the machine —lan increase of £93,727 on
the previous year’s figures. Most of it went back
to the public, whence it came, but £12,805
slipped into the Dominion Treasury to be turned to
some useful account.
The Y.A.A.A.’s boxing and wrastling car-
nival starts at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall next
Saturday (4th). Five nights arc booked for the
feasts of contests and the flow of gore, and the
final arguments will eventuate on Tuesday the 14th.
Lindrum and Reece have been billiarding
at Alcock’s Room, Melbourne, since Monday last
week, and Lindrum promises to reach bis 18,000 this
Saturday without being pushed at the finish. The
Englishman had not struck his best “form” up to
time of writing, but he managed to nurse the balls
for a hundred consecutive cannons on one occasion,
arid as an exhibition of pretty billiards the game is
well worth the marking.
■ Paddon, the Australian sculler, struck bad
luck last week. He sprained one of his wrists so
badly that he had to give up his practice, with the
result that he put on flesh rapidly. Barry, like a
true sportsman, at once consented to a change in
the date of the match, which has now been shifted
along to September 7, to start punctually at 2.45
p.m.
* * * *
Saturday’s round of baseball in Sydney
changed the position of the clubs somewhat. It
gave Waverley the lead with eight wins. Peter-
sham and Leichhardt hover close behind with seven
each, and Paddington and University are waging
deadly war for a place in the semi-finals, for which
the first foui 1 are eligible. The rest of the clubs
are out of the hunt. Waverley and Leichhardt sup-
plied the clash and noise of the afternoon. Leich-
hardt was on its own ash-heap, and Waverley fell.on
it with great fury and smacked up seven runs to
five. Waverley piled up its runs in five out of the
10 sessions, and though Leichhardt came with a rush
like a southerly-buster on its last lap and scored
three runs, it fell in full sight of victory. Peter-
sham outed Lane Cove by four runs to one. Pad-
dington overthrew Burwood by seven to two. ’Varsity
knocked the tiles off Mosman-North Sydney by eight
to two. Pitchers were right up to the mark in all
file matches, and the fact that not a double score was
recorded forcibly evidenced that the much-needed
practice had been taken very hard between drinks.
What promised to be the last of this
season’s golden autumn afternoons saw a further in-
stalment of Melbourne’s hoofball concussions. The
most closely packed “house” was at St. Ivilda, where
Carlton got going early, piled up 29 points to the
locals’ nil in the first quarter, and set the nobility
and gentry in the crowded stands thinking dourly.
After the spell the Saints woke up, and by half-time
were only eight points in arrear, and there was
joy in the camp. From then to the finish the game
was of the prettiest—clean, open, fast and just
sufficiently willing—and as the locals, steadily over-
hauled the Old Blues the barrackers arose and
enthused, with much uproar. Unfortunately the re-
sults of that dreadful first quarter were not quite
annulled when time ran out, with the perspiring
Saints three points still to get—so to Carlton’s 53.
Rejoicing in its recent victory over St. Kilda, Rich-
mond proceeded to Fitzroy, but discovered the
Maroons to be an entirely different proposition—
faster, more accurate and better organised—and
when the bell rang the Yellow-and-Blacks owned but
39 points to ’Roy’s 71. ’Wood wiped out Melbourne
with 82 points to 52, and the Students, apparently
knocked out by their strenuous fight with South,
were utterly spiflicated and paralysed by Essendon
—lO5 points to 26. Also, the mighty Southerners
proceeded to Geelong, and went down' wallop. An
amazing circumstance about the Sleeov Hollow 18
is that it is almost invincible on its own ground,
yet can do little good away from it. Last year only
’Wood and South could “best” it down by” the sea-
side, and this season only ’Rov has managed the feat.
If it could but thrash a few of the weaker teams
away from home it must get into the finals, yet it
has only arrived once in a dozen years or so! On
Saturday it accumulated 74 points to South’s 45,
which was a much sounder thrashing than it got on
South’s ground nine weeks past.
* * * *
None of the Ass. games counted for much,
it happening that the five leading teams were pitted
against the five at the tail of the procession. There
were no “surprising reversals of form,” as the horse
reporter puts it when the favorite is in the bag.
North clowned P’ran by 4G to So ; ’Town smashed up
the regrettable Portonians by 77 to 61 ; Esscndon
capsized Brighton with 59 points to 53; ’Scray gal-
loped over Hawthorn with 114 to 65, and ’Wick with
difficulty held up its end against ’Cote—o9 to 52.
There were several minor casualties at the various
games, though no player sustained any serious dis-
aster ; but during the week the law conversed with
three Port ’bailers and a barracker, and ultimately
handed the former penalties of £2 and £1 anck costs.
The barracker, either because he had less excuse or
was more obstreperous, was mulcted in £5 or a
month.
* * * *
England had been twice defeated, first by
the Metropolitan football team, and- then by the
N.S.W. XIII. Against those two combinations, com-
posed of exactly the same units, England had ap-
peared helpless. But there was a haunting suspicion
that the English team had not quite got its form
or evolved its combination, or was, in some way, far
from fit. So on Saturday last something like 40,000
people were gathered in the Sydney Agricultural
Ground —and saw something to be remembered. That
the English played to a preconceived plan there is
no doubt. It was the first of the Tests, and they
were determined to win or die. And apparently the
N.S.W. (or, as they called themselves, Australian)
men were not determined. They were a careless
crowd that —to say the least unkind thing possible—
held their opponents altogether too cheaply. And
their opponents were their equals individually, and
their superiors collectively. Their running was swift,
their passing was faultless, and their tackling was
deadly. They took their men round the hips every
time and brought them to grass with the solid crash
that makes for victory. Australia’s men pursued a
horribly individualistic game. They threw what com-
bination they had to the winds. They tackled round
the neck —which was like trying to grab a bull by
the shoulders —and were shaken off and sent spin-
ning. If the members of the-team had been bought
and squared and fixed up they could not have played
more into the hands of the Englishmen. Their back's
kicked when they should have passed, and, worse
still, they passed when they should have kicked.
The centre three-quarters failed to make any honest
effort to feed their wing men, and not one of the whole
Australian back division played even decently, let
alone to form. If the League Council is wise it
will make a clean sweep of these failures. It will
wipe the international slate, and give some
others (there are plenty to choose from), a show to
see what they can do for Australia. No team fhe
HIGH-JUMP BOXING.
Lewis and Shugrue in their great mid-air
stoush act at Sydney Stadium.
• selectors can pick from the First Grade clubs can
possibly do worse. For an Australian team to be dog-
walloped by 23 points to five, as this gang—-it would
be immoral to call it a team—was on Saturday last,
is nothing short o£ disgrace. The blighters are
unworthy to represent the continent, not because
they were beaten, but because of the awful way they
threw the game to the English.
There is no joy in describing this exhibition of
crass individualism, this utter failure of our team’s
combination, but in passing it may be mentioned that
Australia won the toss, and started with the assistance
of a slight breeze. Penalties came quick and fast,
and the Herald man in charge put on a special to
count them, and found at the end of the game that
the total was 42, 28 against England and 14 against
Australia. And with that awful list of penalty kicks
the rotters that represented Australia could score only
five points in the whole game. The English forwards
played splendidly, and for the first half the Austra-
lian pack did not do too badly." The first half ended
with England leading with five to nil. The Aus-
tralians opened the second half well. But it was a
mere flash. Then England let loose a four-man pass
that rolled up the map of Australia, and England was
ahead with 10 to nil. Charge after charge shore
through the Australians like needles through butter-
cloth, like fire through summer grass, and the score
stood: England 23 to nil. The curtain of night was
hovering for the fall when Australia made its one
miserable score by punting over the line, following
up and falling on it. and Queenslander Bolewski added
the points. And then the so-called Australian team
crept from the field, not only defeated, but disgraced.
* * * *
The foregoing represented the writer’s
feelings after watching the wreck of Saturday. Mon-
day’s match roused different emotions. This time it
was the English who lost their combination, and
forgot how to do it. Play was far from picturesque.
The English started brilliantly, and potted two goals,
and secured a try which was not converted, and led
by seven to nil. Then the team froze. The tackling
fell off. The Englishmen went for the neck, with the
usual disastrous results. Australia bucked up in a
marvellous manner, and with a penalty goal and a
convu ted try made the score seven all by half-time.
After the vest the English became stricken with
paralysis or dandruff, or something, and although
tlio Australian XIII did not show any sparkling play
what it did put up was quite good enough to do the
job properly. Five more points were added to the
Australian score, while England stuck fast in the
bog of helplessness. It was a most unsatisfactory
display, and suggests that the English team was not
over anxious to win the second Test. In fact, it
looked as though the gate of the third Test was the
chief consideration. The reversal of form is hideous.
On Saturday the English simply ran over Australia
by 23 to five, and about 36 hours later went down
by 12 to seven. Talk about horse-racing—and the
ass that ran stiff! Also, talk about bull-fighting,
and the cow that Ramiro, the bookmaker, had in the
bag!
* * * *
In the Union division the chief interest
centred on the Glebe-South Sydney match. These two
clubs shared the front place in the competition with
12 points each, and Saturday was to see one or
other go down, as both sides had vowed never to
look at a girl or threepenn’orth of beer again should
the result be a draw. The play was strenuous and
of high quality. It was a magnificent four-man pass
which brought the first score. The fourth man
dragged a tackier over the line with him, and scored
for Glebe amidst tremendous excitement. The: kick
at goal failed. Glebe then found itself thrown on
the defensive, as South Sydney, with all its false
teeth set, tried to claw its way through to equalise
the score. But half-time arrived, and Glebe was still
three to nil. The second half was desperate. Glebe
got the better of the scrums, but the Southern pack
played a sparkling game in the ruck, and they
seemed very evenly balanced till Glebe added another
three. 'Then South broke through and scored, and
Glebe led with six to three. Twice after that the
Glebe forwards crossed the line, and were pitched
back bodily, yet they stuck to it, and at last scored
another try. (Nine to three.) But the effort had
burst the team’s boiler, and after that South was the
better horse. It crossed the Glebe line and scored
another try, and looked sure for a draw. But time
reeled faster than the Southern forwards could pace.
The whistle of fate blew and left Glebe winners
with nine to six. For the rest, University galloped
over Western. Suburbs by 11 points to six. Eastern
Suburbs and Newtown played for cricket scores, the
former club scrambling out on top with 29 points
lo 20. North Sydney fell on the aggressive Balmain
and stamped it flat with 30 points to eight—a
crushing defeat at Union Rugby. St. George had a
close game with Manly, and clawed through with nine
points to eight. So Glebe climbed to the top of the
competition list with 14 points to the 12 and 11 of
South Sydney and Eastern Suburbs respectively.
Randwick and University had 10 each, and below
them were only single figures which it were indecent
to mention when ladies are present.
* * * *
Monday saw another round played off, hut
as Glebe had the bye its position at the head' of the
competition was not threatened. With one exception;
heavy scoring took place all round. Randwick tackled
St. George, but was repulsed by 21 points to 20. South
Sydney smashed up North Sydney by 13 points to
11. But the surprise of the day was the awful crash
of Newtown against University. The Students gave
the suburbanites no chance whatever, and rolled the
team in the ashbin by 29 points to seven. Western
Suburbs defeated Balmain bv nine to three, and
Eastern Suburbs and Manly booted each other for
24 and 11 respectively.
* * * *
In the Metropolitan premiership competi-
tion of the Soccer division the Granville XI is still
unbeaten, and heads the list with 14 points. On
Saturday it scrunched Balmain by two goals to nil
and so completed, the first round absolutely unri-
valled. .Sydney is the nearest club, and after a
draw with Canterbury on Saturdav it had 10 points,
the other six clubs range from the eight of Balmain
to the two of Glebe and Northern Suburbs.
* * i- •
.J n Australian Rules division the
hitherto unbeaten South Sydney came to famine and
deprivation at the feet of Sydney by 29 to 26
mighty close, but not close enough' to keep the
record unspotted. Still, the beaten club is ahead
in the competition with 36 points to the 32 held by
Sydney. Central Western is third with 28. New-
town has 24 and Paddington 20. There are others,
but they hardly matter. Some of them also ran.
Some of them also trotted. Some of them snailed.
Maoriland’s symbol of county or pro-
vmcial district football greatness—the Ranfurly
Shield was played for at Wellington last week, when
laranaki, the home of the great goddess Cow, tram-
pled on the more civilised Wellington by 14 points
to 10, and thereby retained the goblet. A few days
previously South Island spread-eagled North Island
by eight points to nil, and on the strength of this
upheaval the Northerns are marking frantic prepara-
tions for an invasion of hefty Southerners in search
of the Ranfurly stoup.
* * *
The battle between Jack Johnson and
Frank Moran, in Paris, went the full 20 rounds,
and the fact that the indifferent Moran stood for 20
rounds proves conclusively that the big black’s fight-
ing career is drawing to a close. Moran is a bio-
husky fellow, but he is anything but a born fighter.’
So little did he impress Reginald Baker when he
saw him in action that the provisional contract made
with him to come to Australia was cancelled. He is
strong-, but he is slow, and has no resource, and
anpears quite unable to think while in the ring.
That is to say, lie cannot think quick enough to make
any use of his thinking. Johnson had declared that
he would knock out Moran in the 12th round. Moran
started for the woods in the 10th, but although he
went utterly to the Devil and the forest and the tall
timber, Johnson could not knock him out. Accord-
ing to the cable there was nothing like a knock-out
blow- during the whole contest, and the result sug-
gests that the cable, fpr once, spoke sooth.
* * * *
Queensland and Victoria have accepted the
offer of Reginald Baker to train 100 public-school
boys, with the consent of their parents and teachers,
to box. By the time this is in print .the N.S.W.
Public Instruction Department will have received the
same offer. So that the Sydney Stadium will have
undertaken the athletic training of 300 lads scat-
tered over three States. If the other three States
request to be included Baker will supply the instruc-
tors free of charge. In Queensland a pious person,
who still believes in the athletic Samson, denounced
the patriotic “Snowy” as a demon of violence who
sought to demoralise the youth of the continent that
they might make money for him. Which was a
ridiculous suggestion. It is safe to bet that by the
time this crop of boxers is ready to get before the
public, if it feels inclined to go, Reginald will be
no longer a boxing promoter. The explanation of
the business is that he has seen places where school-
boys are taught to box and swim, and places where
they are not, and he knows from experience that the
boys who are taught to swim and box make the
better men.
* * * *
At Melbourne, on Saturday night, Dave
Smith had it all over Jules Dubourg from the very
start. The Frenchman could make no headway
against him, and after 11 rounds of it the seconds
of the beaten man very wisely threw in the wipe.
It was useless exposing a plucky fighter who was
hopelessly overmatched to further damage and ruin.
Tahmmy Burns may be a back number as
a fighter, but he has not lost any of his acquisitive-
ness. He is trying to fix up a match with Sam
McVea, and at time of writing is said to be de-
manding 70 per cent, of the gate and certain guaran-
tees. This paper doesn’t hold any brief for negroes,
but even a negro, if he is good enough to fight, is
good enough to be treated fairly and squarely.
Tahmmy is too grasping.
Shugrue, the virulent little Yankee light-
weight, had impressed the Sydney fight-fans immensely
as a vimful fighter and a bruiser of immense hitting
power arid a wonderful turn of speed, and, above all,
of a debonair and warlike manner which won all
hearts. It was after he had made his bright, fair
impression on ringside hearts that the dreadful
Lewis came along and hovered dazzingly on the hori-
zon. Lewis (“Ivid” of that ilk), on his first show-
ing, although insufficiently trained, proved himself a
wonder and a prodigy who acted up to his name and
“kidded” his opponent in word, spirit and deed.
He showed all the cunning that was Stone. He
showed the pace and finesse that was Mat Wells. He
could gallop faster in retreat than ever Wells could.
He could hit faster and harder than Stone ever did ;
and when it came to artistic glove-work he was
almost —not quite—as accomplished as the great Mat
Wells himself. So, naturally, there was a great desire
to see these two infant phenomena together. It was
recognised that the harder, though slower-hitting,
Shugrue carried a knock-out in either hand if he
could only land it, and but few of the men who had
cheered his splendid dash when last seen but fondly
believed that in the long journey of 20 rounds he
must get the opportunity to deliver the luggage.
At the same time they felt it was quite impossible
for Lewis to drop Shugrue with a single wallop,
and therefore the voice of the punter said, “Three
to one on Shugrue.” And Israel, for once, took
them up. The knowing ones plunged madly on the
man who had survived Chicago meat, and lost their
dough.
From start to finish Shugrue had never a hope
of landing that soporific wallop—if he had it about
him. What blows he did succeed in landing on
Lewis fell on gloves and arms. There is nothing-
spectacular or flash about the boxing of Lewis.
That sort of thing is severely discouraged where lie
hails from—the place where the youth who bruises}
is taught to be humble and respectful to those'
placed in position over him. But he made Shugrue’
miss by yards. Only half a dozen times during the
whole combat did that Yankee succeed in landing out
of clinches, and by that time Lewis was always in.
full retreat, so that the blows fell on the swinging
door. In the close fighting, Shugrue did manage to
get in a few to the body, but they were delivered
at such short range as to be wholly ineffective.
There were occasions when Lewis, instead of facing
the music, would do a Gaby Glide around the ring,
and the business-intent Shugrue would cut across
with a view- to making an impact where the straight,
bisecting line would meet the leg of the compass
describing the circle. But (he leg of the compass
would fly off the circular movement with out-
stretched left, and that outstretched weapon would
catch Shugrue on the nose or chin, knock his head
right back, and make him wish he had never been
born. And before he could retaliate two outstretched
arms would claim Shugrue for their own just as he
was getting ready to deliver a blizzard of’ short-arm
wallops, and hold him tight and helpless. On other
occasions Lewis would bound backwards lightly from
every blow, and Shugrue would gallop helplessly in
pursuit, smiting Sheol out of the air. But the
moment he relaxed, Lewis would sway to
right or left as he pranced, and danced, and
galloped, without moving an inch, and then Shugrue’s
guard would be evaded, and tlmt remarkable left
would crash down on the face. It was bewildering
and uncanny. And all the time the wbite-evelashed
Lewis would wear a most wooden expression, yet his
great cavernous mouth belched steam or smoke, anti
smoke rose from his head and body. Once, in the
10th, Shugrue caught Lewis off his guard, and
landed lefts and rights in quick succession. Yet
as he smote, Lewis rolled, or soared away, and once
he was right off his feet, in the air, when a Shugrue
wallop overtook him, and sent him rolling or flying
faster than ever. But as he came down he swung in
a right that almost sent Shugrue down, and as
Shugrue pulled himself together to wing the danc-
ing, fleeting horror that hovered, half on his toes i
on the floor and half in the air, there came the back-
stroke of that right, smiting like a sword, sending :
all blows wild, and utterly demoralising the attack.
Shugrue would haul off, look at his opponent for a
moment, and then the aerial Lewis would lean
towards him and smite him. And Shugrue would
consistently charge in to do his duty to God and
man, but just as he moved Lewis would fly in close ■
and upset all his calculations. It was aii amazing
exhibition of skill triumphing over force. In
the audience sat Milburn Savior, destroyer of cham-
pions, with hunched shoulders and puckered face,
watching the Hebrew from England who seems fated
to tear the bays from his Yankee forehead. He
watched the splendid Shugrue out-pointed, out-boxed,
out-danced, out-galloped, out-cantered, and brought
to utter futility. When the last gong sounded and
Harald Baker placed his hand on Lewis’s head, the
ghost of a 1 smile played over the pallid features,
the owner of the features bowed slightlv, and the
crowd rose up and cheered.


LEARN TO BOX SKILFULLY
AND BE A SURE WINNER!
i
A skilful boxer has a great advantage over his
opponent.
Because he applies his strength scientifically—dees
the right thing at the right moment —takes good
care to reserve his powers, sees that his opponent's
blows lash the air or land on his gloves.
How unfortunate it'd be for you to engage a
skilful Boxer. Why, you’d be in doubt about a man
of your own weight and skill. Surely, you ought
to cease being a target for a good Boxer,
Learn to be a skilful Boxer. There’s no reason
for you to remain “crude.” I can teach you in
your own home.
I TEAGH BOXING
BY POST
My methods are as thorough as is possible—every-
thing is as plain as plain can be. The instruction
is simple and efficient. It will teach you to be a
hard-hitting boxer, with an excellent defence. You
will be taught how to compel your adversary to
leave openings. You’ll cultivate the habit of keep-
ing yourself “covered’ at all times.
Here is what one pupil reported:—
“I had a spar with a chap here the other night. He lost his headpiece, and went for me
like a good one. It was good practice for me while it lasted, but that was not for long.”
J. 0., Tenterfleld, N.S.W.
You’re missing a fine lot of pleasure. Hadn’t you better write for further particulars as regards fees,
etc. ? Ask for a copy of my interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly send
threepence in stamps for postage.
REG. L. ("Snowy”) BAKER,
339 BELMONT BUILDINGS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
MY CIGARILLOS
YOU WILL LIKE THEM.
They are small but good
cigars. In three sizes, as
illustrated. Rig cigars of the
same quality would
cost you 1/- each.
Send to-day for a
sample lot, and if
they are not satis-
factory, return
them, and I’ll re-
fund your money.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
2/. 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
4/9 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
9/- »/■ 7/ ■
Postage Extra
on 100:
X.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 us t rated
Catalog-
Post Free.
Actual Size of Cigarillos.
A. M. SOLOMON
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ft
o"to-
cles
HEND
GCO
£,59 upwards.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
“SHELL” again
in the
Petrol Consumption Test
held on 30/5/’ 14 from
Sydney to Katoomba.
FIRST FOUR PLACES
secured on
“SHELL”
BENZINE.
Hotelkeepers! Hotelkeepers!
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
NO LABOR ! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
NO BOTTLE FILLING. NO LABELLING OF
BOTTLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls a lever and mechanical
power instantly supplies the required drink.
Write for descriptive Catalog to
ECKERSLEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET* SYDNEY
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Wool )
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
SALES held at frequent
intervals by
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
COMFORT PLUS GOOD LOOKS.
Rigney Shoes fit: the feet perfectly, which
means COMFORT. They are made from the
best materials, and retain their smart shape
till worn out, hence Rigney Shoes give you
comfort, plus good looks.
The illustration shows a Patent Calf Oxford
Shoe, latest perforations. A high-grade,
made-to-order Style.
Price - - 27/6.
Also, in Tan and Black Velour Calf, 25/-
and 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of our Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
“McNorth” : A recent cable states that, at
a meeting in London, “the Bishop of New
Guinea said they would like the natives to
retain their old customs. He had found
that if a New Guinea boy started to buy
singlets, coats and trousers, and to wear
them, lie degenerated, physically and
morally.” This Bishop has discovered a fact
patent t_> all miners, traders, etc., who live
in the Commonwealth’s land of nigger. But
that is not what is troubling me. In view
of his Lordship’s statement I want to know
what becomes of the garments and money
ostensibly collected for the purpose of cloth-
ing the pore naked heathen. Most young-
stfers have, at some time or other, been
wheedled out of the penny intended for
stickjaw by a person who affirmed that the
money was required to help purchase over-
coats or top-boots or something for our black
brothers. Adults, too, ure requested to hand
over their second-best togs for the same
purpose. Buckets of pence and great
bundles of old clo’ are thus collected. Where
does it all go? Since leaving the flesh-pots
of civilisation I have been in many places
where the missionary flourishes, but I haven’t
observed an abundance of clothed nigger.
Our dark relation mostly prefers to go with-
out ; often he considers even a fig-leaf super-
fluous. Now, despite all the frantic collect-
ing of coppers and clothes, a leading mis-
sionary representative states the nig. is bet-
ter without clothes. Yet I’ll bet 10 cocoa-
nuts that the cadge for clothes and money
ostensibly to buy clothes will continue, the
nakedness of the nigger being far too good a
missionary property to throw overboard in
this fashion. How can anybody be a
Christian who doesn’t wear a waistcoat?
o
>/
$
\
m’
CD
This
is the
Tyre
that has gained
the confidence and
support of Motorists!
They are exceptionally
good and Motorists know it,
hence the great demand f0r....
DUNLOP TYRES
The Service they offer you is extra wear and less trouble. It’s their
fine quality—why. not have it ? OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.


“GHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME.- In Regent Street.
I
«*. ,3| f
!
I i
j lit i ji imm.\
ii iL*{? fi A»
; i i
#3
X A.,, s
(T YAlt iP'T
Vv. ii,ui iv I
IX,
V>>- ’-V
iA ,•>
Iff;
r, \\ u \v ¥ § f* 1 i
11.3 V 1 SL Ai_jr si. i
X. j 1
V
\
X
, *
b
X-.X
>1
IP
<0?
•s 4
rj
K,>s
XsUsaf
} hh.
Zf
>i
r7l
j )I Fm
n si
W >r
CA
3X
H4{ !
\3>.
7///fs,&/y
111
»rt* j?
\
t’/f'P--- y
/X"
CX
/
•W!
«w»-»
Sal
: i
»i
HJV***' 3 ’
To -j.. i S H
v.
Hi
m
m
i/i
m
ii
A*
4
Lg*
»'
V
m
m.
r‘f
IfQ / A /•?* -P ""X/ .. •>'
¥
&/>e Boot
h
9
o
CHunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
j ' '• • • ’••• • -• ’ • : •- ’ • ■ ‘ •
Walks round London,
How those two
Revel in the
Sights they meet
As they go down
Regent Street !
Here are jewels
Rich and rare !
But the ladies
Turn and stare.
At the COBRA’D
Boots that pass,
Where they’re mirrored
As in glass.


YOUR
HEALTH
is far too valuable for exper-
iment with unknown reme-
dies, when natural strength
and vigour can be renewed
by taking SCOTT’S Emul-
sion. More than a medicine,
more than a food, this pure
strength-maker enriches the
TRADE MARK.
blood, creates
healthy tissue,
and distributes
energy and vig-
our through-
out the body.
Weakly babes,
growing chil-
dren, anaemic
mothers and all
exhausted by
illness and dis-
ease gain new
strength, renewed vitality and
good health by taking genuine
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
as recommended by doctors
in every part of the civi-
lized world.
The Bacillary treatment of Bacterial and Fermen-
tative affections of the alimentary canal. Lactobacil-
line pits the vigorous lactic ferment against the
less resistant organisms of decomposition, with the
result that the latter are immediately destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a
remarkable influence towards the attainment of
perfect health. It is of special value in all affec-
tions of the digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites,
intestinal catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc. Every
cylinder of tablets bears the words :
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Ferment
Soul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,” with-
out which none are genuine. Lactobacilline is sold,
in boxes containing eight cylinders of Tablets —price,
ss. (id. —and can be ordered through any chemist, or
Obtained direct from the Depot Societe le Ferment,
Australasia Chambers, 406-14 Queen St., Brisbane, or
Branches : Vickery's Chambers, 82 Pitt St., Sydney ;
Safe Deposit Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne ; Eller-
shaw’s Buildings, Cliff St., Fremantle; Smeeton’s
Buildings, Queen St., Auckland; from where all
information can be obtained.
WoVEN‘NAME>'
W L weave your name
. or initials in Turkey
Red Lettering, in any one
of several styles, on Fine
Cambric Tape. This gives
a simple, permanent and
most satisfactory method of.
marking linen and clothing.
NEVER WEAR OFF
NEVER FADE
NEVER WASH OUT
Obtainable all Drapers
and Clothiers.
Ask for CASH'S -
the name's on the bos
Write for Samples to
J. & J. Cash Ltd.
246-250 Flinders Lane.
Melbourne.
TSftOE MARK
♦w =*=
m\
n I
10
7 k 5
9
BIG BEN
\®
H
le^
ii
Built
of Good Implement Steel
So He Lasts for Years
He wears an inner vest of steel
which also serves as his bell. You
can’t wear him out. Give him a drop
of oil a year, and he’s good for a life-
time of handy service.
For your accommodation he rings
TWO WAYS —set him either way
you wish —to give one long five-min-
ute ring, or ten short rings at one-
half minute intervals, until you’re
wide awake.
More than 3,000,000 families have
found him a reliable time-keeper.
20,000 jewellers have so many calls
for him that they have to keep him
within easy reach in their stores.
You’ll see him on almost (.very
jeweller’s shehes, and in his windows.
Think what it means for people to
pay close on £2,000,000 to get this
one clock in their homes. Don’t you
want Big Ben, the Two-Million-
Pound alarm, since he only costs
you 12/6?
He stands 7 inches tall, is triple-
nickle-plated, the handsomest clock
of his kind living, has big bold
numerals and hands that show the
time plainly on dark mornings, large
keys that anyone can wind without
frowning, and such a pleasant tone
that you are glad to get up when
he calls.
There never was another clock that
fitted in s.o well with farm work-'-get-
ting the hands up on time, and acting
as a good house-clock all day.
Big Ben is made in La Salle , Illinois,
U.S.A., by Westclox. His price is 12/6,
postage 1/- extra. If you cannot find him in
your town, send a money order to his makers'
Australian office, Westclox, 63 Pitt St e:t,
Sydney. They will have one mailed to
you at once by the nearest jeweller.
The Ideal Entertainer.
The EDISON
Phonograph.
Mr. Edison lias succeeded in making
the phonograph so clear and so perfect
that the rendition of all kinds of
music and other sounds is remarkable
and-almost beyond belief.
The Edison Phonograph is not only
the greatest entertainer that can be
introduced to the home ; it is also a
scientific apparatus that will help to
educate children who listen to it.
Go to your nearest Edison dealer and
see and hear the Edison Phonograph.
We will supply you with the address
of the nearest dealer —if you do not
know it —also particulars of all
Edison Phonographs and Records.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364=372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS
m
FORD OWNERS
can now have
a ECHEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at a
minimum o f
expense, and
grain
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY.
EASIER STARTING
QUICKER PICK UP
and
GETTER E6CNOMY.
Pries, as illustrated, £5lO-
- and all particulars from
SOLE AGENTS—
ROBERT C. SWAN & GO. LTD.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
In the
morning
it is such an easy matter to get
your teeth ready to be seen,
when you use
Calvert^
.Tooth Powder'
and of course, the same
thorough antisept.c cleai.sing
is just as necessary
again at night.
5. 1 iby local Chemist's and S ores.
Made by
, F C. CALVERT & CO.,
MANCHES ER,
Eng.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
RGBE&T HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE ;
Political Parties in Maoriland.
“lliki’s” review:—
The last session of the present Macviland Parlia-
ment eonimences this month, and theie is every pro-
mise of a merry time. The recess has re- embled an
election campaign, both parties being out in full
warpaint, and if the Government honors the usual
request to supply to the House details of Minis-
terial travelling expenses there should be plenty of
scope for the usual charges of waste. The Liberals,
now enjoying a season in opposition, have been mak-
ing the pace throughout the country ever since Christ-
mas. They have been travelling in batches through
the “smalls,"’ each team containing two or three of
the best platform men on their side, and there is no
doubt that they have created a solid feeling in favor
of their party. Even in the agricultural districts,
where the Massey crowd did all its telling work at
the elections three years ago, the Liberal envoys have
been received with enthusiasm, and their ' leader,
Joseph Maud, has had flattering receptions every-
where. On the other hand, the Government is
severely handicapped by lack of platform men. Just
what effect the Labor element will have at the elec-
tions is difficult to foretell, owing to its disin-
tegrated nature. An attempt has been made, with
varying results, to resurrect the old Liberal and Labor
federations. This would embrace the moderate Labor-
ites, who know that if a Liberal, a Labor man and
a Government candidate start for a seat in a first-
past-the-post contest, the odds are on the Govern-
ment man. Last session Premier Massey repealed
the cumbersome Second Ballot Act, and since then
he has several times definitely indicated that it will
not be replaced by anything until a good working
substitute unfolds itself. So, in most electorates,
the Laborites have to choose between standing out
of the contest and allowing a Conservative to slip
through on a three-handed deal. Some sections of
militant Labor have recognised this, but in most
electorates in the cities the Social Democrats will
put a man up, which 1* at reckons is a very friendly
thing to do. The position as it reveals itself so far
is that the Liberals are at least 50 per cent, stronger
than they were at the elections of 1908. Then they
had a majority of two, but some of their followers
subsequently ratted. For years they held five of
the six Auckland citv seats. Last election they could
win only one, but there are strong indications that
they will regain at least four this time. Welling-
ton, too, is likely to return two Liberals, if not
three, at the end of the year. The fight promises
to be the most interesting Maoriland has seen in
recent years, particularly if Labor decides to get rid
of one enemy at a time, and to start with the party
that recently split Labor’s head open with a baton.
The prediction that, as “Liberalism” first
opposes, then adopts and finally claims credit
for pretty well every progressive proposal, it
would shortly be favoring a policy of prefer-
ence to unionists, seems likely to be soon
fulfilled. Certainly Jokook and Irvine are
still nominally fighting that policy; but,
then, Cook and Irvine will be the back-
numbers of the party in a year or so. Mean-
time there is J. T. Packer, of Victoria, to
show how the wind’s blowing. Packer is
the gentleman who organised a new union
to suit the Vic. Employers’ Federation, and
no man perceives the direction of the breeze
more acutely than Packer. Now Packer
has considered these unions and the cry for
preference, and lately he addressed the Lib-
eral Workers’ Congress on the matter. lie
put it that it was “manifestly unfair that
non-unionists should receive increased wages
when they had failed to participate in the
financial outlay in the initial battle to secure
such increases.” That, if it means anything
at all, means preference, if not mono-
poly, to unionists. He instanced the A.W.U.,
which spent £BOOO in fighting its case before
the Federal Arbitration Court. “It was
not right,” lie said, “that the man who had
contributed not a penny towards this large
sum, who had often hindered rather than
helped, should claim to share the benefits
gained equally with the men who had put up
the coin.” Packer, of course, couldn’t advo-
cate preference to unionists —in 1 lie event
of Carty Salmon standing for Balaclava
Packer would become the sixth selected
Liberal candidate for the. Senate —but lie
showed the best reasons in the world why
every unionist sbeu’d fiHit for the principle,
as well as why fair-minded outsiders should
give a hand in the struggle. 1
—♦
“Hermes” : It is time Australia spoke seri-
ously to both Joe Cook and Andrew
Fisher. Australian defence is in a bad
way. Cockatoo Dockyard is chaos. The
small-arms factory is a mere toy affair
which should be expanded enormously. At
present it is quite incapable of turning out
enough small arms to supply an Australian
army in the field. The waste of rifles in
war time is hideous ; and at present we have
not got sufficient service rifles to even start
an army with. Nothing has been done to-
wards establishing an ordnance foundry.
There is no such thing as a real field ambu-
lance in existence. In all Australia, I am
assured, there are not enough anaesthetics to
serve for one week of genuine war. Imagine
the condition of an Australian army under
existing circumstances after one week of
fighting! The chances are that by that time
there would be some prominent politicians
dangling in the breeze.
»
“McNortii” asks for a rest
I am full up of this Home Rule and Ulster busi-
ness. The average Australian doesn't care a rotten
banana which side wins; yet the newspapers use up a
lot of more or less valuable space recounting the
doings of a small herd of would-be insurgents who
inhabit a place about the size of a horse-paddock on
a Queensland cattle run. More space is appropriated
in detailing the utterances of the British Govern-
ment, which appears to be in the position of a parent
who is afraid to smack his unruly offspring because
of the awful possibility of the child; making faces at
him. However interested people on the other side of
the world-may be in these matters, they don’t keep
us awake at nights, and most of our own people skip
the cabled reports of the progress of this backyard
row. Certainly, we have been told : that “grave
issues” lie in the Home Rule question; that if Ire-
land becomes self-governing the Hempiah will burst
or crack ; that if Ulster gets its way a similar explo-
sion will take place. Some few fanatical persons were
impressed by these statements, inasmuch as they
cabled a message to the effect that the whole of Aus-
tralia was in sympathy with Ulster, and they took
it on themselves to offer a contingent of self-govern-
ing Australians to assist the people who didn’t want
to govern themselves. Incidentally, the offer was
treated with scorn, or the glassy eye, or something.
But the average Australian individual retained his
usual unruffled calm, and took but a passing interest
in the Asquitb-Carson squabble about a bog. For
these reasons, it’s up to our papers to cut out Car-
son’s speeches, and substitute accounts of Japan's
war expenditure, or cables .anent the number of fight-
ing ships Nippon is building. Even reports of speeches
such ns that of the Japanese statesman who remarked
at Tokio recently that “to effectually occupy other
countries is Japan’s only alternative from extinc-
tion,” would fit our requirements better.


There’s a Record in the Register
Before the Customer Gets the Goods.
The “Get a Receipt” plan enforces a record inside the
register before the goods are wrapped. The receipt is
wrapped in the parcel, and the record must be made before
the receipt is issued.
This record is the assistant’s own acknowledgment that he
has sold a certain amount of goods and will be responsible
for a corresponding sum of money. It is your receipt for
the transaction.
This protects your business, shows you at all times just
where you stand, benefits your customers, saves time and
increases profits.
Write for information to-day about ■ the National Cash
Register that is built for the particular needs of your
business.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE— ——119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all Principal Cities.
A.E.G.
TURBINE- DRIVEN
BOILER FEED PUMP.
Oil Free Exhaust Automatic Governing.
Low Steam Consumption —Re liability.
Minimum Space.
11l
I '*
GUARANTEED WITHOUT RESERVE.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE Bl7e.
40-42 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
170-2 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place.
ADELAIDE.
TOOTH-PASTE
If our teeth could talk--;-
they would say something
like this :
“Yes, we are thankful for
our friends—the millions
of Tooth Brushes. They
do splendid work as far as
they go.
“ We are grateful for the hund-
dreds of dentrifices. They
in turn do a splendid work —
so far as they go. But both
together fall far short of pro-
tecting our enamel—our only
weapon of tooth protection.
“Is there no escape from these
‘ MOUTH ACIDS ’ - these ever-
present mouth fluids which unseen,
unbidden, are working day and night
to break down our armour plate—and
then make the soft inside . tooth struc-
ture easy prey to decay-germs ?”
We answer :
“ There IS escape from ‘ Acid Mouth.'
Pebeco Tooth Paste is the one dentri-
fice to-day which prevents ‘ Acid
Mouth,’ the direct cause of 95 °/ 0 of
all tooth-decay.”
Send 3d. stamps for sample tube
and interesting test of Add
Mouth.
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
Sydney (Wholesale only).
COPY THIS SKETCH
and send it to us with 4d.
in stamps for criticism, and
let us explain how our per-
sonal lessons by post will
develop your talent- for
profitable Black and White
Sketching.
THE AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL
OF SKETCHING,
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
Kriischen
7 Salts 7
'iow sold by Chemists throughout tne commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers;
H. & W. GREAR, 287, Jlarenee Street, SYDNEY.
For Solid Comfort while Travelling
in ail sorts of weather, the ideal
wrap is a
MOSGIEL
RUG
Simply Perfect in Beauty and
Heat=giving Cosiness,
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
[1
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
“Whitehall” : The agitation in the United
Kingdom to do away with the sale of Church
livings has led- to some . queer revelations.
Many of the “purchase clergymen” have
been shown to be habitual inebriates. Others
are bankrupts and owe money all over the
parish. Many of the cases cited before the
“Benefices Act (1898) Amendment Commit-
tee” were termed, charitably, “unsatisfactory
livers.” This was another way of saying
that their “affairs of the heart” were the
scandal of the neighborhood. Then there are
the commercial soul-savers. A couple of
samples :
(1) In business all the week as a dentist. Comes
late on Saturday night from city and leaves early on
Monday. Does no visiting. Pays a local clergyman'*
to take funerals and marriages at half a crown each.
Bought the living with his wife’s money. She assists
in the dental department.
(2) A commercial traveller. Visits parish Only for
week-ends. A keen business man, but has no spiritual
interest in the place. His aunt bought the vicarage
and gave it to him as a wedding present.
I knew about a dozen embryo parsons at
Oxford in my youth. With the exception
of two or three they lived the same unre-
generate lives as the rest of us. That is to
say, they got drunk at the various Wine
Clubs ; gambled at poker and “bank” ; owed
the tradesmen more money than they could
afford; and flirted with the waitresses at
the restaurants. The sprightliest blade of
them all was destined to step into a lucra-
tive benefice as Soon as he had taken holy
orders, the occupant—a disreputable old man
—being pledged to get out at this stage. I
used to see something of him, when he vis-
ited London in quest of diversion, in later
years, and _ I can safely aver that he was
no more virtuous than I was —which was
saying little. Many of the pattohs of rich
livings are either atheists or notorious rakes,
which does not make for careful selection in
the matter of divines. The situation amounts
to a howling scandal, and the trouble is
there doesn’t appear to be any way out of it.
The Anglican Church lacks the iron discip-
line of Roman Catholicism. Practically the
only way in which an undesirable cleric can
be ousted is by legal action, and that is an
expensive and risky business.
“Heart-to-Heart” meets “Father of Six”:
It isn’t necessary to “third degree” some of these
suburbanites to find out What they are thinking
about. Because I had a bunch Of cut flowers teth-
ered to the handle of my kit-bag and he Wanted the
seat the bag was on, a stout man whom I wouldn’t
know again from a balloon took me into his confi-
dence. Starting With the remark that it was a terri-
bly dry time for gardens, he passed on to the subject
of children. Very destructive to gardens children
were ; lie had six of ’em—didn’t know how many I
had. Before I could tell him, he started to review
the situation in Ulster. Didn’t know what my views
were (I opened, my mouth to tell him, but, as he was
running express, I shut it again without saying any-
thing) ; in his opinion, though, Carson was quite
right—the loyal, Protestant, frugal, industrious North
had to save itself somehow from being swamped by
the bigoted, ignorant, poverty-stricken South. Then
look at King George! (I looked instead at the man
opposite, and the man opposite peered at me over
his glasses. He didn’t seem satisfied, for he wrinkled
his nose in an .unpleasant way, slapped his paper
another shape, and went into ambush behind it.) Yes,
look at King George! In his opinion, King George
could do a lot more than people thought! Look at
Henry the Eighth! Henry the Eighth had cut off
his wives’ heads just as soon as he was sick of
’em! ' That would show me what the power of an
English king was! Mean to tell him, that King
George couldn’t stop the Home Rule trouble and
the suffragettes if he Wanted to! Hot! (By this
time he • had worked himself into a rage, and the
sour man opposite was looking at me angrily over his
paper. 1 think he must have put me down as the
total stranger’s intellectual apprentice.) Look at
George Reid ! There Was a man for vou ! What a
king he would make! “George Reid?” I echoed
helplessly. “Yes! Good old George Reid —the very
man for a king! Good-night.” And with that he-
rose and left me to bear alone the withering looks
of the sour man opposite. I feel delighted when I
reflect that great, consecutive thinkers like my
anonymous friend with the balloon vest and the six
children have the fate of this fair country in their
hands ; it gives me a splendid feeling of security.
The Mariners of England seem to be up
against it as regards oil fuel, which they
have officially adopted for their navy. “The
substitution of liquid for coal fuel as the
driving power,” says C. de Thierry in a
recent United Empire, “finds us unprepared
with adequate sources of supply under the
flag.” There are lots of Russian oil, lots
of American, and lots of Dutch (which
would become German in war), but little
British. That’s why Winston Churchill pro-
poses that the British Government should
buy £2,200,000 worth of stock in a co. which
finds its liquid grease in Persia. But the
London Times cries out heavily, “We want
the navy to have oil, but we do not want
to run the risk of fresh embroilment in the
Middle East.” So there you are! J. Bull
must have oil, hasn’t got oil, and can’t get
oil without the risk of a fight before he gets
it. It isn’t calculated to make Australia
feel any more comfortable, and ought to
drive this country extra-busy with the devel-
opment of its own oil supplies. On present
appearances, when things grow willing, Papa
Bull will have none to spare for any of his
youngsters.
One feature of the May Day celebration
procession in London was a vanload of
mock Chinese conspicuously labelled “Brit-
ish Seamen.” This follows on a recent
Liverpool strike due to the excessive use of
the cheap Chinee in that port. Trades
unionism throughout Britain is rapidly cul-
tivating an abhorrence of the Chow as an
enemy to the emancipation of the white
worker and the Yellow Hope of European
capitalism. Australia’s attitude towards
the Agohy is hot as incomprehensible to
Englishmen as it once was, though even now
Very few of them understand that there is
more than a question of wages involved.
A writer in the British Review for May
takes the view that Germany is coldly and
methodically preparing for a swift stroke
at France, to be dealt while the German
fleet keeps the little British 'expeditionary
force of 200,000 or so out of the Continental
ring. ■ Then he goes on to comfort himself
with the reflection that “the Colonies sent
invaluable contingents to South Africa; thev
would do the same when the Mothel- Coun-
try called on them to come to Europe..,.
With time given , the Empire that sent a
quarter of a million ineh to South Africa
would have no difficulty in sending double
that number to the Meuse and the Rhine.”
So the job of supporting England against
Europe’s most highly trained troops may be
flung at us any day ! Well, it is flattering to
find ourselves considered in world affairs;
but if Australia ever goes to Europe it had
better tack a notice to neighbors on the front
door: “Back in 10 minutes.”


gismission
DO,VO Volts
J J O i) O J i
v w ** w
Notable Hi°:h Voltai
c
G-E Transformers
gg* t
H.TV
Voltage
150,060
150,0&>
140,0#p
T
Kv-n.
Unit! per
Installation
Cycles
per Unit JCv-a,
50
5833
4500
3000.
50
12
60
15
• m
3750
9375 ‘U
izo.oto
120,06 b
■115,06 b
00)
U0.06>
no!o60
ijp,o6P
no.oop
104,00 )
60
60
3500 •
300 A
625 m
60
60
60
25
25
60
60
60
25
25
60
1000
6250
2400
1200
3000
1000
2500
1000
2750
3333
14000
10000
3333
4,000
37,500.
14.50 a
36,000
27,000
18,000
10,000
3,000
11,000
60
% k
; 103,9p0
60
102,0
60
J,., * v *,v V
i 102.0$
fe. ini 7.6
60
30
60
60
18
00,00
60
00,0
60
60
40,000
28,000
50
12
0,0
60
60,
60
60
14
A2J
rpHE General Electric
* Company’s production
of transformers for voltages
of 100,000 or higher is a
striking evidence of the
success of high voltage
transmission.
The accompanying list of
transformers aggregates
nearly a million Kv=a capa-
city. The transformers
alone, disregarding appur-
tenances and transmission
equipment, represent an
investment of such magni-
tude as to indicate excep-
tional confidence in trans-
mission at such high
voltages.
THIS confidence is in=
spired by the successful
performance of numerous
high voltage transformers
under severe service con=
ditions.
Approximately 85 per
cent, of all the transformers
in the United States of
America, operating at volt=
ages of 100.000 or higher
were built by the General
Electric Company, which
possesses the largest and
best equipped transformer
factory in the world.
Write for Bulletin
Number 4938.
□
4
Melbourne
© JLlttle Collins Sts
Cor
ueen
dne
S
Street
SIT Clarence
ONCE- BIT TWICE SHY.
How many unfortunate Engine Buyers in this State now wish they had profited
by their neighbor’s experience and purchased a
ARSHALL” Steam Engine
JE,
Made by thoroughly competent BRITISH workmen from the very
best materials the world produces.
THE MARSHALL
represents the Highest Grade and Most Reliable Engine ever
offered for sale in this or any other country.
Take no chances, but pin your faith to an article with a reputation. Latest Pattern Portables, all sizes, 2 to 40 h.p.
Steam and Oil Tractors. Vertical and Horizontal Stationary Engines. Vertical and Colonial Type Boilers.
BEST POSSIBLE TERMS. Discount for Cash. Descriptive Catalogs Free.
R. L. SCRUTTON <O. CO. LTD
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
“WHERE YOU ALWAYS GET A FAIR DEAL


Shipping;.
Pm and
O.
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•'iVi MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
•Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £IS & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
ORMONDE
ORAMA
ORVIETO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTES .
OMR AII
. Geared Turbine
• Triple Screw
.Twin-Screw
15,000 Regd. Tons.
13,000 „ „
12.130 „
12,129 „
12.124 „
12.077 „
12,036 „ „
9,023 ~
8.252
fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and lnxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Perth Rooms, Private Batliroorrß,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from RRTSBANE. SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
l2 Martin Placr, SvnNrcv.
Hanking:, Public
Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. 11. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. lIAEE.
DEPOSIT YOUR SURPLUS MONEY
’1 oVL nan,c > "'■•ere it will earn INTEREST
at 31% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
® x JrfSB to £5OO, and he REPAYABLE ON
iJbMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Row Interest to - Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 125 Branches
and over 500 Asrcncies.
By order of the Commissioners,
•t- II- DAVIES, Secretary.
THE
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY-
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; Hon A J
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Syrtney Ofiice: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brahches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
, SOUTH WALES.
1 AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL RANKING .BUSINESS
THE
M. MMI JO,
Australian Bank of Commerce
i.iMiTirTi
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act 1
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. |?000 000
SUBSCRIRED .. . ifSvT
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) .. 195 440
reserve fund ’.. .. . 000
head office — George find Kin'- S' ly-cts. svdnev
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—Sir William P. Manning, Kt. Chair-
rnan; George Sly, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. , Arthur S. Barton, Esq. ; Frank N
Yarw ood, j J 1 ran Bert Jl. LysagiiTj Esq.
Branfcbes tlirongliont New Soutli Wales * Queensland
.the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world /C.M. C. SHANNON. General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
>; ; ? '.LIMITED,,
Incorporated under the' Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
: agreement- extending to dune 30, 1921.
Rid perilled Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital ... .. . . 430,000 0 0
Reserve Fund •• •• .. 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since ms specially protected.
Directors Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman).: John
Cameron. Esq. ; E. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunnin-
Esq. ; Hon. G. IV. Gray, M.L.C. . , S ’
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branohes—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia. Scotland, Ireland
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East’
Colonial fjjutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR .
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability: also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
418 & 421 COLLFNS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds,: £3,445,000.
Amounts paid (to Policyholders exceed £0,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible. '• -
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitable distributed!
Chief Office for New South Wales:
j 28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
I Directors :-,
The jHon. C. J. Roberts-, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. Bruce Smith. K.C.. M.P. I
■’V. IDLER. Resident SecrJtarj j
Shipping;.
'VTORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-LI IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS.
TO oS?^ OMRO ’-. SUEX ' NAPLES, GENOA. ALGIERS,
Aii 7, —huh »jiejess insianauuii.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1.. £7l/10/-: 11., £4O;
‘l 1 -' £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£00: 111., £3O/12;- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO.. General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGIT BOOKINGS to any part of
AMEltldA or EUROPE.
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
. Australia and San Francisco.
Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
fOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete—“ The Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegranhv
PARTICULARS and: PAMPHLETS obtainable at
- UNION S.S. CO. pf NEW ZEALAND LTD.
259 George Street, S.vdne.v.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
*Triple-serew Turbine. fNew Triple-Screw Steamer.
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
Saloon • FARES — Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capeto\vn and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) : £S2 (Second-class
Orient).'
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets interebamre-
able with Holt’s Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and stop-over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY. LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passeng-er Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY \
Brisbane
ROCK HAMPTON
■rPt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE -
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping- for
this qrirl other
QttfensUlfrd ports).,
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 4.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 8.
Leaves Sydney July 11.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne July 15.
Leaves Sydney July 18.
For
MFJ,BOUI?NE
(Transhipping 1 for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 4.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney July 11.
Fill] Particulars: re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents
Offices at all Ports.
WINTER TOURS
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
via Lord Howe & Norfolß Islands.
A Voyage Ileplete with Novel Sights,
Beautiful Scenery and Curious People.
One of the longest, most enjoyable and
inexpensive Island Holiday Trips ever
devised.
53 DAYS* TOUR FOR £.25.
Send for our special Leaflet describing this most interesting cruise.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.,
Bridge Street, Sydney. William Street,
Melbourne. Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIUECTOKS
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450 000
The Mon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Tliomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MaeLauiin, Jvu
The lion. James T. Walker ’ ’
The Hon. Edmond W. Fosberv, C.M.G.
Tiie Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
IU.L.C.
M.L.C.
. AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer Esa '
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London office 29 Threadnecdle St eg
340 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Panua and
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World. J p ani London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Ford mi
collectecl > Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE TH ROncnniTT
JHE WORLD. -T. RUSSELL FRENCH. General Manager
The Commercial Banking Co.
CD
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£1,976,108 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.G50.000 0 0
Reserve Capital . . . . 2.000,000 0 0
£5.656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq... .. Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Eater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dinns.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Birckin-Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. H. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary' Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up .. . . . . .... 500.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
tain, and Ireland,
on Australia, New
land, Fiji, Great
and other places.
Zea-
Bri-
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking
at Interest
. fixed periods,
business.
for
and
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 150.136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. 9,291
Gen. Man.. Kdwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: K. 11. Matthev7s.
Lontlcn Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannrn Street, London
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Tories written' in' Australia
appear in Tiie Lone Hand each month.
Price „Gd. .
Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
JO.oooions, Twin Screw Stenmors. 17 knots
„ l °' a T s l f T e ' l 103 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS HE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY--
VENTURA
SONOMA ..
I July 4
1 Aug. i
Aus-. 29 | Oct. 24 I Dec. 19
Sept. 26 Nov. 21 j Jan. 16
T in e 29 , Da , vi , v t i r i P < ; t 0 Eng ' and can be accomplished
' v,a Samoa . Honolulu, San Francisco.
RLIURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT DINE,
t , N/ - S - Co - and s - S. &A. Co.
Del, ,82 Pity. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
T HE Worth Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
magnificent Steamers trade regu-
T\V J, I E D RICIIM 0N D, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
ni\™ CU ’i MAOLEAY AND MANNING
Jii\ RRS , also to BYRON BAY
BAR BOR and WOOLGOOLGA ’ F S
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
tlie.N S. MALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE
thence to tweed Heads— steamer to Munvillumbah
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company’s im to
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa °
B KR fid '~ FirSt u la i SS rail and saloon
on“mer £6 £ 4-2s. C, 6d. SeCOnd ' CIaSS rail and steerage
tor Guide and ail particulars apply:
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE' ST. SYDNFV-
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
.
mm
E. BURNHAM’S
Celebrated KALOS
Toilet Preparations
Kalos Skin Rejuvenator (Skin Food)
prevents wrinkles.
Kalos Fairy Fluff Face Powder, deli-
cate and adhesive.
| Kalos Chin Mask reduces double chin and supports
sagging muscles.
Kalos Perfumes and Toilet Waters, “Blue Violets”
Lily of the Valley”, “Lilac”, etc.
Writefor Free Booklet, “Beauty’s Charm”
' Attractive offer to representative v
dealers throughout the world.
E. BURNHAM
Established 1871
G 138-140 N. State St. Chicago, ,U. S. A..
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
-EXPRESS PASSENGER‘SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quseisland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
'1 ranshipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WANDILLA(SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
July 4 and August],
(Carrying First and
S"pond Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
Brisbane
mackay
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
GRANTALA, July 11,
MARLOO, July 18.
■ WARILDA (BMOO tons'),
July 25 and August 22.
Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. VUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents,-6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND!
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS..
FIRST AND SF.COND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
Twin-screw
Steamers.
MARAMA
MAKURA
♦NIAGARA
MARAMA
MAKURA
♦Niagara
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-dc-luxe em
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
F*irst Saloon passengers to Honolulu and points
beyond wishing 1 to break journey at New Zealand
may proceed by Intercolonial steamer from Sydney,
without extra charge.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy..
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP NiZ„ OIV.
Managing Agents. 259 George Street., Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
STEAM TO LONDON, LIVERPOOL AND
BRISTOL (AvonmqutbX-.
T.S.S. DORSET.
11,000 Tons. CAPTAIN GORDON.'.
SYDNEY . . a,bqut; JjULY 8; 1914.
MELBOURNE.. ~ JULY U, 1914.
FARES TO LONDON:—
Saloon, £4O. Third-Class, £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-'
Saloon Fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Steerage,, £l/1/- extra.
Saloon accommpdatiqp, consists of all two-berth
cabins on upper deck situated amidships. Well-
lighted and ventilated cabins with spacious decks.
. Third-class passengers supplied: with fresh provi-
sions from cool chamber throughout the voyage. 1
Electric light throughout.. Return- and round-trip
tickets issued via Cape and/or Suez Canal. Prepaid
passages arranged. Fitted, with. Wireless.
For illustrated pamphlets, and : full;, information
apply:—-
ISIRT & COMPANY, LTD'.) Sydneyi and Brisbane
McILWRAITII, MoEACjIARN ;&.CO. PTY. LTD '
Melbourne and Newcastle,
ELDER, SMITH & .COMPANY LTD j Ade Saide 1
11. JONES & CO.) LTD;,. Hobart. '
HuddartParkerLine.
Magnificent Fast i Passenger Steamships.
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“ Uiimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria}”'
All of Modern Construction..
Fitted: with. Wireless Telegraphy;.
Maintaining regular services between-;
COMMONWEALTH k ALL. NEW ZEALAND POUTS'.
HOBART AND- SYDNEY,.
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giviusf
Passage Rates and Time-tables,
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
George street, Sydney,
And All Ports.
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
THE
WELMAR
SHIRT
Pat. 1274 24/5/11.
Stocked by
Leading Mercers
and -—-
Outfitters
1 Manufactured by - *—"*?*!?
WELCH, MARGETSON & Co.
PTY. LTD.


Hotels. &c.
••
S!SI
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accomir.odation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 15/6 per day.
AND UPWARDS.
Tlie Hotel is finely situated, with
nbumlanee of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE TSAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
'Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building,
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
151 ac k, Black,
Brown, Light or
, Golden Brown,
' Blonde, Chestnut
F and Auburn
r Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
r Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
; 2Z&33 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
00660©®©®®
A FAIR DINKUiu GO
~. TRY THE ... 4
FOR
1E Z 0 b
The Wothihs Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-'
Sole Agent.:
LYO NS,I
Bo.urke st.,Melb.‘
Commonwealth
J6ank*SuotraKa
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and collected.
Letters of credit issued to any partof the world. Bills negotiated or forwamed for collection Banking and
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth, United Kingdom and abroad.
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO 2000
Post Offices
in Australia,
and Papua
Interest at <%o/
per annum 0/ 0
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor, DENISON MILLER. Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, tho
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney. N.S.IV. A. MESTON, Local Director.
20 PER CENT.
DISCOUNT OFF
STERLING SILVER
Our experiment of a. couple of
yearn ago, o'f" taking'*fhe wholesale
Catalogue of the great English
manufacturers aji Electro-Silver
and Solid Silver'-Goods, and de-
ducting 20 per Cent;, or 4/- in the
£, from their prices, was of *
revolutionary character, and might
have landed us in heavy loss; but
IT DID NOT,
owing to our great output, and so
we are continuing the discount.
It only gives us a bare conraiis••
sion on many lines, but commis-
sions count, if numerous enough.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures. Cash.
llp'ivv Solid Silver Manicure Set, with all-Steel Scissors, in case,
as illustrated, 4 07-; less 20% discount, 8/ 32/- net.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, vSydney
m
Write for It.
We would like to send you a copy of
our Catalog, which illustrates a
variety of the different styles in
Abbey Shoes. Write to-day for a
free copy.
The boot illustrated is a Glac6 Kid
Derby Bal., 22/0. In special
quality, leather lined, 27/6.
Also, in Box Calf, 27/0. And in
Tan Willow Calf, 25/- and 27/6.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
ABBEY,
1
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR,
A iLady writes: “I like the .Celebrated ‘A,RABIS’
Egyptian Henna bef.ore all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.” .
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has ,the largest sgle Ql
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive y*m. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
■
y'v
m
i
■
fen-wee
si
m&k
FREE ELECTRICITY
Once installed, THE AUTOMATIC WIND MOTOR can be run
practically for nothing : it is driven by the wind and requires
NO FUEL whatever to generate electricity. There is no
Smell or Dirt, NO RISK from Fire, Shock or Explosion.
The power generated will safely light your home in the most modern, convenient and healthy
manner.
The heating of dwelling rooms is thereby reduced to a minimum, and the soiling and air-
vitiating effecS S Qi gas, oil and other illuminants is obviated, and, further, the Are risk is nil.
Electric fans caftMbe driven to render hot summer days more bearable, and free the home
from flies, mosquitoes and other winged pests.
The domestif? problem is solved by the furnishing of cheap power for vacuum cleaners,
electric irons, washing machines, etc.
A small|freezing machine, capable of taming ont ten or, In the.large.• sizes, a
atplv orcater number of pounds of ice per hour, can be driven. This feature in itself s
commend the plant to those who are forced to reside in the hotter of an
combination with the furnishing of electric light, will do much to give the country dweller some
of those comforts only at present enjoyed by the city man.
The larger plants can be utilised for driving shearing-machines, chaff-cutters, churns,
pumps and other machines where moderate powers are intermittently required.
Many pumping problems otherwise impossible of solution by the ordinary windmill pump
can be solved bHL Automatic Wind Motor, since it can be placed in the most exposed position,
and the power generated transmitted by wires to a pump driven by an electnc motor.
We shall be pleased at all times to advise prospective clients as to the size of plant best
suited to their individual requirements, ok any doubtful points.
All Communications to be addressed to
HAES & EGGERS, LTD.,
163 Clarence Street;
SYDNEY. -


&f)Q
COAT SWEATER
when working
or taking your
pleasure ... ...
The Coat Sweater will give you cosy comfort.
You see, it can be worn under a coat, like a
vest, or without a coat at all, like the picture.
WH’TE OR SILVER GREY-
PURE WOOL, WASHABLE AND UNSHRINKABLE ..
Please state your chest measure.
Chest measure .. .. 34 36 40 inches
Price 18/6 19/6 21/-
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba
LIMITED
BRISBANE
T ownsvill
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result—
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NF.KDED,
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOQQITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
They make no bones about it on the Fitz-
roy. The North Rockhampton municipal
insurances ran out the other day, and a
meeting of the council was called to deal
with the business. It should have been
quite a formal matter —if somebody hadn’t
forgotten something. As it was :
Alderman Welch: The year before last Alderman
Reaney had the business. It was then decided that
Alderman Kent should have it last year, and Aider-
man Reaney said then that it was only fair that
Alderman Welch should have it this year.
ThiJ Mayor: In my, npTriion, Alderman Welch,
as a matter of justice, should have the policy.
Alderman Reaney: He has got something already.
Alderman Welch: I haven’t got much.
Th*. Mayor: In justice to myself, I must say that
I was- not after the insurance business, and 1 did
not know Alderman Berinett was.
“It is a dirty piece of spite—that’s all it
is,” said the discomfited Aid. 'Welch when
three aldermen trooped out of the chamber
just as the Mayor was going to put a motion
that it was up to Welch to have his cut. as
a matter of simple justice. Whether all
other municipal jobs are carved up among
the aldermen in the same just manner
doesn’t transpire; but it seems almost time
the Home Sec. sent up an inspector to ask a
few questions about it.
“Cleveland,” from the North :
One of Queensland’s automatic lights arrived on the
spot for which it was intended when the Waipara
blundered on to the fringing reef off the Hannibal
Islands; but as there was no one there to receive
the glim and time was pressing, she dragged herself
wearily off and proceeded on her voyage. Nor did
she try to hand over any of. the lights she had on
board for other stations until she reached Towns-
ville. In their struggle for salvation, those mariners
who use the Inner Route have been severely handi-
capped by lack of lights; 1 have listened to enough
lurid imprecations to effectively illuminate the whole
of the Inner Route, the Northern Territory Adminis-
tration and the operations of the Meat Trust. How-
ever, if the Recording Angel will make allowances for
a few months, things’ will no doubt then improve.
Brentnall, M.L.C., a white-bearded pillar
of Toryism and Wesleyanism, has celebrated
his 80th birthday amid much Methodist re-
joicing. A couple of the adulatory orators
made much of the alleged fact that Brentnall
had “stuck to the faith of his fathers.” But
he has done no such thing. His ancestors
were Anglicans at one time, Romans at an-
other, and horse-devouring worshippers of
Thor and Odin back in the dimness. We
have all ratted in the most shameful way on
the religion of our fathers. That is why
Wesleyanism is in existence.
“Ivobbi” : Bananaland’s University, which
had a struggle to establish a chair of
Engineering, has ideas of building a seat of
Agriculture, ivhilst, as something of a ser-
viceable monument, a chair of Medicine
with a leaning to tropical diseases will lift
itself up ere Wee Mac departs. Which is
all very modern and worth two or three
thuds on the drum. But, on the other hand,
the University has never had the pluck to
slaughter the sentiment for dead languages.
The old lie that one must be able to conduct
a reasonable nost-mortem on these tragedies
before he can make proper use of his own
tongue is- still pumped into the uninitiated.
THE ARTIST'S MODESTY.
JUDGE (about to commit): “Your methods of performing this daring act of robbery and
violence are the most in fam pus ”-
PRISONER : " Yer Honor, I begs of yon, not so much flattery. Please no flattey.”
Yet no one insists that a grocer must have
a knowledge of the making of jam before he
can sell a fivepenny tin for sixpence. And
if Wee Mac (who is largely respohsible for
the local prevalence of the superstition)
alleges that the Odes of Horace helped him
to pursue the tropical mosquito—well, I’ll
say it is the only joke Wee Mac has been
guilty of since he first came to Queensland.
Digby Denham at the Chamber of Com-
merce dinner:—
I cannot understand Britishers investing money
in foreign parts for the sake of an. additional 1 per
cent, and taking all risks. - ' i
Of course he can’t. Whenever in his pro-
duce-merchant capacity Digby wants a hun-
dred-weight of butter, and John Henry Bull
( English) and Hans Frinskoff (unnaturai-
ised German) offer the goods, Digby always
buys Bull’s grease though Frinskoff’s may
be offered at Is. Id. as against the Bri-
tisher’s Is. sd. The thought that by buying
from the German he could make an extra
4d. per ib. never crosses the mind of the poli-
tical butter-merchant. In the' same way
Digby can’t understand a Queensland squat-
ter selling bullocks for £l5 to a Yankee Beef
Trust when an English or Australian buyer
is in the market at £l2; and the idea of a
Government with which Digby has anything
to do sending to a foreign country for rail-
way material is simply unthinkable.
In the Orangery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are the ghosts of many sighs among
the citrus'Yrees,
A trail of vanished laughter hangs it’s echo
to the breeze,
And jolting in the rhythm of the leaf and
windy runes
The oranges loop from the bough, a line of
golden moons.
The cross-ploughed land turns to the sun a
heave.of withered roots,
Wise hands are killing off the grass to help
the next year’s fruits ;
Beyond the fence that dry old tree has weary
leaves and pale,
And the few sallow globes it bears are spotted
o’er with scale.
But here the young trees, smart and green,
lift from the chocolate soil
A sprig of laurel for the hand that gave them
care and toil.
And, to and fro, among the green, their wings
stained henna-wise.
There drifts, like hordes of happy thoughts,
a float of butterflies!
I weave _an Asian tale from this. The
dancing girls were drest
In wreaths of scented orange flowers from
amber thigh to breast,
And through the Sultan’s shaded rooms,
when sultry noon was high,
The Favorite danced on music-wings, as
light as butterfly.
The jealous wife her rival watched, behind
the screen discreet,
How deer-like were those glancing eyes, how
nimble were the feet:
She called her eunuch to her side, “Go, bid
the slave to sup.
And I will mix the sherbet sweet in mine
own jewelled cup.”
A moment fluttered o’er the rim those
painted fingertips—
And then the dancer set the draught against
her grateful lips—
A shudder down the slender limbs—a mutter
hoarse and vague—
And lo! the. naked, panting breasts are
spotted as with plague!
The Sultan swept his robes aside. “What
horrid thing is here!
O slaves, east forth this alien shape. . . .that
once had lain so near.”
But had he looked where fell the light
across a modest screen,
He might have seen triumphant eyes the
diamond slats between !
Well was the silver goblet cleansed, before
the Queen would sup ;
Well were the dreadful dregs of death rinsed
from the jewelled cup!
They set the fragrant Ceylon hark to smoul-
der in the pan—
Its spicy breath would dare disease to rest
in that divan!
But though its smokv incense drenched the
lingering daylight hours,
It did not drown the clinging scent of Urging
orange flowers!
There are the ghosts of waving arms among
the citrus trees.
The tale of tinkling anklets makes a mea-
sure in the breeze;
Beyond the fence an outcast tree hangs to
the lichened rail,
A few pale, sallow globes of fruit, black
spotted o’er with scale!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, June 27, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindaii,—
It is now arranged that Gov.-Gen. Fer-
guson will open the Brisbane show in Aug-
ust. If he brings more than two aides and
a secretary with him the surplus bodyguard
will have to bivouac in the garden, since
Fernberg is unable to contain more—unless
shake-downs are made in the billiard-room.
More farewells to the Macgregors are
darkening the outlook of the departing vic-
tims. The foreign consuls will give his
Ex. a free dinner on Wednesday, Mrs.
Barnes is farewelling Lady Mac aboard
the Lucinda on July 6, and members of both
Houses will collaborate at a garden party
in the Parliamentary grounds on July 10,
when the vice-regals-will make positively
their last appearance at any such happening.
Justice Heydon, of N.S.W., is engaged in
a health chase in Queensland at present.
He doesn’t intend to go back until the winter
is over.
This has been a week of dancing. The
Commercial Rowing Club had a jolly little
hop in the O’Oonnor shed on Monday night.
The old girls of the Church of England
Grammar School did likewise on Thursday,
and the Gymnasium Hall is filled with
prancers from the swimming clubs, even as
I write.
The boys from St. John’s College also
held a dance on Thursday night, and,
although rain was falling and mud was
ankle deep upon the earth, the hall at Kan-
garoo Point was full of youth and its twin
soul. The master of John’s (Rev. E. M.
Baker) and his pretty wife, with Mr. Oakes
to help, produced the welcoming hand at the
entrance way.
On Wednesday the annual Railway Ball
happened. The Governor and the Vision
were there, likewise the Arthur Morgans,
Mayor and Mayoress Jenkinson, Mrs. Raff
and her daughter, and Mr. and Mrs. Frost
and their two daughters. It was a cheerful
dance. In fact, the oldest inhabitant -told
me it was the most ..enlivening since the abo.
corroboree went out of fashion. And from
what he didn’t tell about that forerunner of
the tango I gathered it must have been some
invigorating.
On Thursday night the wimmen’s branch
of the Overseas Club jigged and tangoed at
the Cafe Majestic. The Mayor and Mayor-
ess and an array of aldermen added dignity
and corpulence to the proceedings.
The rain was obligingly cut-off by its
proprietor to-day at the special request of
the Brothers of Nudgee College, they being
interested in a coin tea which T, C. Beirne
and his wife were spreading at their home
at Hendra, in aid of the college building
fund. A fortune teller made things go with
a swing, for, in addition to the usual sea trip
and dark-eyed husband, she prophesied twins
for one astounded society girl. So unfashion-
able, nowadays, Thargomindali. After the
coin tea many of the party went on to the
Commercial Travellers’ Club, where presi-
dent Bowcher and liis wife were “at home.”
Mrs. Bowcher, who is one of our best-
dressed matrons, wore a coat and skirt of,
golden brown brocaded crepe de chine and a.
purple hat, and carried a bouquet of violets.
Secretary Courteney Luck's laugh was heard!
at frequent intervals, as was Renvenuti’ss
band. The hand won on points..
John Cameron, J.P., who,. si>. years
with the Grombie brothers,, opened up the-
Barcaldine country for pastoral purposes.,
and who twice sat ip. t.hq Legislative Assem-
bly, was Taken this week- He was horn im
British Guiana in 1845, apd with his family,
reached Vic. in %%. Amongst his big associar
werq, the "UpitecJ Pastoralists and!
Grazing, farmers’ Association,, the Pastoral;
Employers’ Association for Northern andl
Central Q. (president), the Q.M.E. & A*
Co. (chairman), the Alliance Insurance Co.
(chairman), Moreheads, Ltd. (chairman),
and the Union Trustees (director). He
was also chief of the Caledonian Society for
many years.
Roy Gill, only son of the late Crown
Solicitor, was committed on Wednesday last
to Vera Ileaslop, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
James Ileaslop. The bride’s two sisters
(one in pale yellow and one in lavender),
Clive Morcom and Percy Lavers, formed the'
bodyguard. The only blot on the day was
the weather. You couldn’t have got 2d. a
mile for it from a penguin.
On Wednesday afternoon the popular
Mayor and Mayoress fed the workers of the
last Henley-on-Brisbane jaunt at the Cafe
Esehenliagen. During the afternoon his
Rabbitfur crowded a silver inkpot on sec-
retary Reid, and immediately afterwards,
much to her own amazement, the Bedford
lady was held up to public observation in
the same manner by. Aid. Waugh.
Dolores landed into this city on Tuesday
night, and was met at the Central station
by a surging mass of enthusiastic womenites.
Despite the vile weather that night she
had a good house, and to-night the Exhibi-
tion Hall is packed.
I have just learnt that a Chinaman (cer-
tainly he was born in Queensland, but both
parents are Chinese) lias been given a billet
on Gatton State School staff, to instruct
young white Australia. Mr. Poon (the
name of Poon seems fateful in Aus-
tralia) is, I hear, an Anglican, ;i •
winner of scholarships, and a successful
student. There being nobody with those .
qualifications in Australia of white man’s :
blood Poon had to he appealed to. As
Barry Lupino says in the panto.: :
“’Strewth !”
The Brisbane Anglican has his wit. Rev.
E. C. Tomkins, in returnvng thanks to the .
young ladies who provided the Synod with a ,
tea, remarked that the hostesses indicated ;
the fruity quality of the parishes, and he -
Imped they would see to it that they /‘hus-
banded their resources.” This is the kind of '
half-risky allusion that makes the parsoii so ,
popular in cat and kitten circles.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Tvapina”: The Morning Star —the new -
mission boat for Mornington Island —was-,
recently launched at Thursday Island. The •
church christening party broke.over her a.
bottle of eau-de-cologne instead, of the usual!
champagne. The latter contains about .12;
per cent, alcohol, whilst the scent contains;
over 90 per cent. Thus does clerical in-
genuity arrive at the place it steadily/
avoids, or something like that.
From the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Apropos F. T. Brentnall, M.R.C. (B. 25/6/’l4)'„
who has just celebrated his 80th birthday. In hiss
earlier years he was in business, but in 1863 turned;!
to the pulpit, and was sent to N. S. Wales by the;
British Wesleyan Conference. He was one of five;
who arrived together, and all five, after 5T years, are!-
still alive. Having spent nearly 20, years in the)
V.etbody service a throat affection compelled him;
to abandon the pulpit, whereupon he adopted journal-
ism. He joined the literary staff of the Brisbane:
Telegraph, and became a shareholder. In 1885 he 4
largely increased his interest, and succeeded Cowli-
shaw as chairman. In May, 1898; he resigned this;
position, but still holds a scat; a?- director. A.t at
jubilee function recently, at; which four of the-
Methodist ministers who, came, out in ’63 were pre-
sent (the fifth had joined' the- Church of' England!,
and was, presumably, not. invited). Mr.. BrentnalU
stated that when he quitted llis old job he repaid' the:
Wesleyan Society what it cost it to. send’ him to
Australia. .
From a Tasmanian onlooker: —
The Labor Government here meets Parliament this
week (30th) with two fairly important proposals.
One is the purchase of the Hydro-Electric Co.’s
power plant, land and water rights, under an agree-
ment by which the co. is to establish carbide works
at North-West Bay, and consume up to 3000 h.p. of
the Government’s current at 5 per cent, above cost of
production. The other is an amendment of the ■
Electoral Act to provide for the party-list system of ■
voting, the avoidance of the need for re-distribution ,
by the adoption of a uniform quota, and the in- -
crease of Assembly members by one —from 30 to 31 <
-—so that one political party will have a majority r
of at least the odd man, instead of both parties!
being “15 all,” as at present. If Premier Earle ;
works these two measures through, and can get sup-
plies, he will ask for an adjournment to enable;
State members to take a hand in the Federal elec-
tion shindy, and give Treasurer Lyons a chance to
get the Commonwealth returns as a foundation for his
financial statement. The programme may, however,
be knocked into smithereens by a no-confidence
motion, which is threatened by the Opposition Solo-
mon.


S£iUND> /qtWICE
CONTINE NT4L
m
//
xn. #//
,
\
kt*.
n
O'
©
; fe
f~ VS‘
( i
25
>
as
: ;
mmM
&
mk
.
Si
m
MB
:.«!
.
>
12#®
SH
' •
4:
■M 1
SSHI
*
a
o
(J
•fT"
I
mm
■m
■ \ i .
:
—I
?A
ST NE/TTOL


Business Announcements.
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
015
“TOUCHES THE SPOT”
1 he Pioneer ofSkin Complaints
Na household should be without it.
Foi< ECZEMA, PILES,
SCALDS, BURNS, CUTS,
BRUISES, SORES, and all
Skin Complaints.
30 YEARS AGO
H. M. STANLEY (the great Explorer)
said: —
“ I found ‘ Homocea ’ to be the most sooth-
“ ing and efficacious unguent that I could
“ possibly have had in my travels.”
And to-day thousands of Doctors,
Nurses, Fathers, Mothers, Sons
and Daughters say the same. |
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
“ As a pharmacist of 50 years’ standing; I
“ state that I consider your ‘ Homocea’ the
“ finest preparation known for the purposes
“ you recommend. No prescription I have
“ hitherto dispensed has been so quick in its
“ action on the complaint for which it was
“ prescribed.
“T. G. Forshaw, m.p.s.
“ For more than 25 years Disf> user to the
“Bradford Infirmary.''
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny
Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO..
Sole Wholesale Agents,
127, York Street, Sydney, Australia.
£36e only Perfedl Cleanser
for Artificial Teeth
DENSO
There’s nothing like it—-people every-
where are praising DENSO.
DENSO quickly renders the plate sweet,
clean, healthfui; brightens the teeth, pre-
serves the gold, and is a. perfect boon
to heavy smokers. Plates also fit better,
more comfortably after using DENSO.
If in doubt send Id. for postage on FREE
Sample. [1
Post Free in the
Commonwealth.
J. M. WILKES 8 CO.
1/6, 2/6 Box.
Alphing'ton, Melb
Victoria, Australia
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
J 3
Brakes the Machine
„ Run Easier!
Lubricate your
Sewing-Machine with
“ S-ifl-Ono ” Otl if you want it to run
smoothly and silentl / !
“ Tfiroe-in-Ciia ” lessens wear at
friction-points.
Keeps delicate mechanism p.r-
fectly clean.
Prevents rust, polishes woodwork
removes stains and sc.atches.
Clean as pure water —won’t rub
off on fab ncs.
Stocked by most Stcres.
WRITE FOR FREE SAMPLE BOTTLE!
REID AND REID,
Australasian Agents,
B, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
The JTagic Art of Beauty Culture.
SOME HOME RECIPES.
By fcITA MOYA.
A comnlexion that appears clear, fresh and natural is as necessary to woman
as a modish gown. More attention should be given to keeping the skin ‘ fit than to the
details of dress. The face, constantly exposed,to wind, dust, fatigue and strain, requires
regular and watchful care. One great cause of complexion troubles is the frequent use of
greasy, inactive preparations which clog the pores and prevent the natural thi owing off
of waste matter. My repeated advice is to avoid made-up cosmetics, and to use only pure
ingredients. The various aids to beauty which I recommend are simple, and it not already
at hand, can be procured from any reliable chemist. If he has not. wlmt you require, he
can easily obtain it for you from his wholesaler. 'Only let me advise you to insist on hav-
ing the original ingredients, and not to accept some made-up preparation instead.
About Shampoos.— To quote an eminent
London beauty specialist: “The slimy egg
cannot dissolve the scalp impurities, but only
adds to the trouble by completely choking the
pores with animal matter.” The substance
sticks and decomposes, thereby causing the
liair to assume a dead, “dull color.” I heart-
ily endorse every word. Avoid eggs (and
soap, too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair, will
clear and prevent dandruff, and leave that
flue, fluffy effect so much sought after. It
also removes excess oil or greasiness.
Complexion Secrets of an Actress. —ln a re-
cently issued volume bearing the above title
the author says: “Continual use of grease
paints, rouge and the like, has ruined my.
copinlexion. My skin was colorless, wrinkled,
coarse and punctured with large pores. In
America I (heard of the virtues of mercolised
wax; my first experience with this marvellous
substance convinced me it was more valuable
than all the cosmetics combined. Now, when-
ever my complexion begins to go wrong, I get
a small quantity of mercolised wax at the
chemist’s, spread on a thin layer of it before
retiring, washing it off in the morning. The
wax, after a few such applications, seems
literally to absorb the worn-out cuticle, when
a brighter, healthier, younger looking skin
appears.
Face Fuzz. —Many women know how to re-
move superfluous hair temporarily, but to
banish it for ever is quite another matter. As
regards depilatories, I must say that there are
very few good ones. They nearly all irritate
the skin, and even then only give temporary
relief. Powdered nheminol acts in a wonder-
ful manner, and the recommended treatment
is designed not only to immediately remove
the ugly hairs, but to also permanently des-
troy the roots.
Scanty Eyebrows and Fashes. —What a
wealth of expression can be given to an other-
wise plain face by fine arching eyebrows and
long curling lashes! Much care should be
exercised, however, in choosing a pomade for
promoting the growth of eil heat,
tically impossible to keep the .lids tightly closed
when treating the lashes. Mennalme lias the
advantage of being perfectly harmless, and at
the same time a healthy stimulant to the .sail'
follicles. Its use tends to darken the new
growth, which presumably is what most
‘women desire.
Is Powder Necessary? — l say emphatically
No! There is a simple lotion which can be
easily and cheaply nude at home, and it is
at the same time both effective and beneficial
to the complexion. Cleminite is a splendid
substitute for face powder, which is at the
bottom of many complexion troubles. Get
about an ounce from the chemist’s and dis-
solve in four tablespoonsful of water. The
result is- a fine clear liquid, which instantly
gives the face, neck or arms that peach-like
bloom of perfect health. There is nothing to
equal it for greasy skins, and the result lasts
all day long under the most trying conditions.
Try ii for the next dance.
Falling Hair. —Plow often one hears the
lament: “I have tried everything on the
market, and my hair comes out in handfuls. ’
Not so surprising either ylieu you come to
think it over. Hair tonics to lie effective must
be fresh, and there is no earthly reason why
every woman should not make her own lotion
at home. The finest vegetable tonic I know
of is made by mixing a packet of boranium
with J-pint of bay rum and adding sufficient
water to fill a half-pint bottle. This lotion
rubbed briskly into the scalp sets the hair
roots tingling with new life, and will, if per-
severed with, give you back your “crowning
glory.”
For Pale Faces.—Some folks are naturally
pale, and I see no harm whatever in adding a
little color to the cheeks if so desired. Rouge,
however, is always obvious, and to people of
refinement somewhat vulgar. There is a sub-
stance, however, known as powdered colji-
andum, which gives a perfectly natural color,
and at the same time'defies detection. Apply
a little with the finger tips. You will be
pleased with the result I feel sure. • [f
ASIC for Bostock featherweights, the most lux-
urious of shoes. Lightness is their distinc-
tive feature and quality their charm. They
are the cream of imported shoes. True to their
description, they are as light as a feather on the
feet, and exactly meet the growing, but in this
climate perfectly reasonable, desire for dainty,
pliant shoes.
Bostock featherweights are always interesting,
whether on the foot or in the hand. The skilful
work, conspicuous in every pair, never fails to
command one's admiration.
Beautifully made from the choicest of leathers,
they' are obtainable from the leading shoe stores.
Special shipments have recently arrived, and
ladies should call before the choicest styles are
sold.
UHIM
H
W'
Style 587
802
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES* NAME ON SELVEDGE
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 1
■ -saMiM
.. :-sf
THE
/V
C'Ji
t?
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £500,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
nirp/'for<i ■ JOHN GRICE, Esq., Chairman ; H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq., Vice-Chairman; EDWARD
TRENCHARD, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD, Esq.
SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 .PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Worrall D.: Too elaborate. The idea of a
picture ought to hit you in the eye at the hist
glance Qui Cupit: You say it happened on a
yacht. It’s the first time we’ve heard of Noah’s craft
being called by that name Broompa (Q.) : Where
did that gamble-wheel episode happen? A.P.
(Glasgow): Not enough interest Kilty: Long, dull
essay on Scotland declined without thanks. Send
it to Harry Lauder and let him sing it. Plenty
of people will like it then—or pretend they do,
anyhow Old Mat: No use to a busy paper. Can
you advise us where to find out the use of the Laboi
platform to Premier Holman?. .. .Wolfreim Tracker :
Glad to hear that there is a great future predicted
for you. In the meantime, there’s a dead certainty
of a grate future for your pome... .P. Arbiter: Not
worth while. ..-Redroc: Pars, no good; no room for
popular parodies. Yours are neither parodies nor
popular, anyhow. ... W.G.D. (Jagersfontein) : Much
obliged to you for pointing out that “it is quite tune
that White Australians rest content with the tern-
perate zones and allowed the darker-skinned peoples
to occupy those portions of the world which are
unfitted for a white population.”... .P.S. (Tokio) :
Thanks The Shark: That puts a different com-
plexion on things F.C.8.: Here you are:—
THE MARSUPIAL LIARS.
Up Bulga way at close of day
In the Cross Roads pob o’ Toole’s
The boys were reminiscent on the strength
of kangaroos.
Said Andy Ray from Balham way,
I ran into a beauty onc’t
He rolled up his eyes, I was mesmerised
Then jammed me in a holler stump.
I bumped one too said old Bill Noake
When ridin’ down the Bonga track,
He jabbed me ’orse until ’e reared,
Then pulled me off the critter’s back.
That’s nought said Jones, I met a pet,
Whilst drivin’ down through Black Man’s Oiler
He swished his tail and knocked me down,
Then dragged the ’orse fair through ther collar.
. . . .Spin (Hay) : Nothing doing. . . .A.V.S. (U.S A.) :
Unsuitable. .. .Geo. Beach: Have that poem washed
out by the next tide 11.M.V. (W.A.) : Spasmodic
sort of story with some color in it... .Christine:
Gently conventional verse.... Martial: Don’t attempt
to play on the name of Watt.... Ada N. (East Mel-
bourne): Unsuitable Literary Prospector: The
printed verses forwarded for counsel’s opinion might
have been written by a highly cultured, utterly
humorless and mentally bloodless English gentleman-
poet. There is an air of gentle, old-maidish refine-
ment about them, but they are stiff and pulseless -
corpse-verses, in fact. Putting aside the question of
craftsmanship, which is patchy, we may Say that
refinement is the strong suit of people of few ideas
and little mental vigor. And the writer without a
fair stock of ideas is a hollow mockery and a waste
of time. Live literature is made by the humblest
writer who (1) has an original idea, and (2) ex-
presses it lucidly or beautifully. The best work con-
sists of original ideas expressed lucidly and beauti-
fully. The gentleman-poet who ,has no ideas worth
mentioning and reveals the sorrowful fact in jumpy
verse should be fined for obstructing the Inky Way
and throwing waste-paper on the footpath.... Mal-
colm O.: Search yourself for an idea. You seem to
be as hard up as the eminent writer inquired about
by “Literary Prospector.” Only the Great are en-
titled to be fatuous as well as Great Some Cash-
book Writer: Kill your idle hours with bad verse afar
from this office. Haven’t got any hours that require
poisoning. .. .Pasquin: Have you got any strychnine
left? If so. leave a bait for your muse M.N.: No.
....Edward H.: Don’t care for yOur argument....
First Attempt: Like most first attempters you don’t
know the work. Sorry.... C. 8.: Quite so ! Com-
mander of the Basket! Our congratulations....
Bobby: The centre of the stage and the limelight
beam are yours : —-
Dear Bulletin, —I address myself to your staff
both wise and well-born. I appeal to those who
instincts have, tending to be philanthropic, and beg
of them please to accept the enclosed poem of peculiar
topic. In doing so, they will greatly oblige an
indigent and would-be poet who is out of a job and
can’t get work; as for lucre—he doesn’t know it.
He would bless the day that gave them light and
commune with their guardian angel, and use his per-
suasion (per blarneying right) that they may prosper
and dwell for ever in peace and delectable biiss far
from the madding crowds of wandering wearying
worrying wits that pester their precincts in clouds.
Your staff, I am sure, are literary men of a noble
and high degree, and must be bored to death by
“promising gems” (but that doesn’t allude to me).
Pardon me, sir, for wandering thus, but you know
how our minds will run on without our consent, when
we get on a theme, and I hope that I have not done
wrong or wasted your time in any small way, as I
know that you and your staff must always be busy ;
but a chance, by the way, just give me; if not —then
a half. Please, Mr. Bulletin, accept the enclosed
and insert it in next week’s edition, and send me a
cheque, as large as you please, to prlteerve my soul
from perdition; and honored I’ll be that you have
accepted the first of my own humble verses. So
please me. Dear Sir, and do not reject it as I ain’t
used to meeting reverses. “Bitter Sweet Recollec-
tions” the poem is named, which may or it mayn’t be
nobby.—With kindest regards, I shall remain, yours
expectantly, Bobby.
Poem thrown out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Novice: Too involved. And the picture ought to
tell the story—there shouldn’t be any call for a
small volume of printing on it. . . .Ron: The gag isn’t
new and the drawing is very wooden.... F.K.K.: Go
away into the hot wilderness and found a new school
of your own. You are full of awful promise and your
color sense is devilish.... 11. C.P.: That horrors jest
is one of our oldest friends We t have conceived an
intense dislike for your present style of drawing. . . .
J.H.C.: The gag is all right ; but then, you see, it’s
01d.... Jimmy Q.: Immature work.... Coll W.: Two
half-breed Chinese giantesses in fashionable dresses
shrieking and swaying with laughter over a doubtful
jest. No thanks.
A domestic item (with mention of .a new
stimulant) :
Our present washing-up artist is as gradual as
a glacier. Even the hateful business of dish-swab-
bing, which is clattered through in ruinous haste by
most of the craft, occupies her till so far into the
night that dinner is a faded memory and supper is
spoken of. Her broom action reminds me of the
slow fall of the swells that precede a storm. On
her dav off she spends most of the daylight hours ill
sorrowfully adjusting her strange hat and cramming
her feet into shoes which are far too small for her.
she generally totters off the premises late m the
afternoon, and proceeds in a flat-footed manner to the
station. The other night, instead of limping in as
usual and throwing herself on her bed with a crash
and nine groans, she skipped in like a spring lamb
an d obliged us suddenly with a recitation about a
strange gentleman she had witnessed in a series of
t h e most entertaining fits. It was humorous and
pathetic by turns, and she performed it with appro-
jfa” P as Je "she hid
followed the fitter and his adventures at a high speed
about four times round the city. When at last she
had retired breathless, after taking a double encore,
we congratulated ourselves that she had been shocked
into activity at last. But next morning she was as
gradual as ever; the effects of her splendid stimulant
had worn off.


Arnott's MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE. FOOD.”
Harry Lauder
Melodies
sound best on
m
GRAGKAJAGK
Mouth Organs
They ARE the Top Notchers.
They ARE made of the Best
Material Obtainable.
They ARE the Best.
Made in Six Styles.
PROFESSIONAL 3/- DOUBLE 1/.
SENIOR 2/- BOSS CRACKER 1/-
JUNIOR l/« CADET -/«
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
SEND FOR FREE BOOKLET, No. 7.
Silver=Toned
MELBA
Accordeons
Are unsurpassed
for their beau-
tiful quality of
tone, obtained by
the use of a
superior quality
of metal in the
reeds.
For Picnics,
Dances,
Accompaniments
PRICES.
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6 to 42/-
WUITK KOlt OUU NEW CATALOG.
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Melbourne, Bendigo, Adelaide, Geelong.
When semelliing is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Omtmeait
It soon relieves the sorene s and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antisep'ic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect L> tes or slings,
fo eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Sto> es and Chemists St ll it.
Made by F.C.CA 1, V FRT & Co. , M anchksteßjEkc*
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES TIIE. WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. -Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PULE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W., Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of S
---»boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by-all Druggists, Chemists and . Store-,
beepers throughout the States.
RTUSSIN
sKtJUHOT
A remedy ’constantly
recommended by
Doctors for tlie last
twenty >ears against
WHOOPING GOUGH
“COUGHS
CATARRH
ASTHMA
Rapid Recovery.
Can be obtained at all Chemists-.
»f 3
y
mam
Waterman’s
(Ideal)
FoimtamPen
THE WORLD’S
BEST FOUNTAIN PEN
Makes writings positive pleasure.
Nib just suited to your hand, a
steady, sufficient flow of ink to
the point while writing, no leak-
ing, no spluttering, no faltering.
Lasts a lifetime; every pen
guaranteed. Makes an ideal. Gift.
In four types —Regular, Safety, Self-
Filling and Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationers (d Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, London, Eng.
(Australia : 350, George Street, Sydney.)
Write for booklet.
mi II
JERDAN’S LTD.
ALWAYS UP-TO-DATE IN ALL CINEMATOGRAPH SUPPLIES.
ij
r KELVIN
GENERATING- SET
The ...
Kelvin Generating Sets
and
Silent Empire Bioscopes
UNAPPROACHABLE-
UNBEATABLE.
We can fit you out for a Permanent
Travelling Show from
£4O
Why not Investigate the MONEY-MAKING ADVANTAGES of Moving Pictures ?
Ours is no bubble reputation. We have proved by merit the wisdom of our
choice of PICTURE SHOWMEN’S REQUISITES.
CALL OK WRITE. WE ARE OUT TO PLEASE YOU.
393 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles are made to
a formula of the Liverpool Throat Hospital, and act like a
charm in keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition
for prolonged vocal exercise.
Used by the Leading Singers throughout the world. The
celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes: “I thank you for the
boxes of Javans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Sole Manufacturers— 0F ALL CHEMISTS.
EVANS SONS LESCHEI* g WEBB LTD., LONDON.
Ask for “EVANS’ ” Pastilles, and see you get them. 11
Q
m
i
m
M
m
By
idiG.
Still
do
H
ago
-
ICT
0
teirani
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Sr-AJ
L
SHAVE WITH
A “ PLUM ” ——
Then you’ll be sure of both ease and satis-
faction.
The “Plum” glides over the face without
causing the slightest inconvenience. The
blade is superior—that’s why. Made from
the best silver steel, and accurately tem-
pered. it cuts clear and clean, leaving the
skin like velvet. , j
The “Plum” keeps a keen edge indefinitely
and is always ready to" give an easy shave.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” TO-DAY—
-10/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect condition for two
years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.,
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle,
15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free,
Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
<354- GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
, ESTABLISHED 30 YJ^ARS.
Queensland Park Saddle
A splendid saddle for general use. Made on belt
English tree, with Plated Bars and Double Gullet,
and is built of best material throughout.
'Mils saddle has hogskin seat and pads, extra long
flans. Victoria panel, deep, sweepy seat, nickel-plated
4-bar irons, folded girth, £3/19/6 Complete, add
exchange. Mention The Bulletin wheh ordering.
A surcingle will be given free. This Saddle is for-
warded ‘freight paitl to any railway station or port,
N.S.W., dr any port Queensland. Obtained from
!f. P. TALTY, Manufacturer, 388 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
CATARRH
INSTANT RELIEF
ULTIMATE CURE.
io/-
Catarrh is unpleasant both to the sufferer
and his associates. It often leads to consump-
tion; it is a frequent cause of deafness; it
creates dyspepsia; and it invariably lowers the
tone of the sufferer, impairing his capacity for
work and enjoyment.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR.
Cures Catarrh, Catarrhal
Deafness, Headache, Neural-
gia, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis,
Asthma, Hay Fever, etc., etc.
Restores the sense of taste and smell,
and thoroughly cleanses, soothes and
heals.
Thousands of people in Australia and
N.Z. have derived the greatest benefit
from Ramey’s Medicator. Become one
ze~ 31m. °f them. 10/ =
long. The complete outfit costs M
ORDER NOW. USE THIS FORM.
STAR NOVELTY 00.,
103 Australian Buildings, Melbourne, Vic.
Please send Outfit containing 1 Nickel-plated
Harney Medicator, 1 bottle Inhalent, and 1 tin
Ointment (four months’ treatment), post paid,
for which I enclose Ten Shillings.
Name
Address
Send Money Order or Postal Note. Cash
must be registered.
L.RW
THE TWO FRIENDS
Does your Horse know Solomon
Solution ? Its the greatest friend
“ lie can have. In case of accident
—sprain, cut, sore shoulder or
back, girthgalls, etc., it is invalu-
able —and “ a friend in need is a
friend indeed.”
Solomon
Solution
Large Jars 5/- from Chemists’ Stores,
aud Saddlers everywhere. Post Free
for 5/6 from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne
THE WORLD’S BEST
Calculating Machine,
The‘Triumphator”
Novel and easier way of setting the figures,
which remain visible in special show-holes
above the setting levers.
Carrying over tens device in MULTIPLIER
and QUOTIENT, as well as in PRODUCT
show-holes. -
Registers Multiplier and Quotient correctly
in large white figures.
Illustrated descriptive Catalogue on applica-
tion to the Agents:—
A. P. GREENFIELD g CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane.


A Collection -=©# Hiniatures,
By MRS. BERYL IRELAND,
is being Shown at
THE ROY'CROFT LIBRARY,
No. 1 HUNTER STREET,
From JULY 1 to JULY 8.
'Particulars as to commissions, etc., may be had on
application.
Amusements.
R 1
t ICKAKDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
MATINEES: WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY AT 2.30.
Commencing NEXT SATURDAY, at the MATINEE.
Direct from U/S.A., under Exclusive and Starring
Engagement,
WALLACE BROWNLOW,
The Celebrated Operatic Baritone.
ENGENE DAMOND, Classical Violinist.
Winifred ward. w. c. fields.
Box Plan Theatre and Nicholson’s.
Tivoli theatre, Melbourne.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
BETH TATE, the Californian Girl.
VAUDE & VERNE.
THE FOUR VAGABONDS. JOSH DIXON.
W. TALLEUK ANDREWS.
GILDAY & FOX.
RALPH ERROLL, Renowned Tenor Vocalist.
VIVIEN TALLEUR & FRED READE.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES— 4s., 35., 25., Is.
IVOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
Commencing SATURDAY, JULY 4.
ADA
ADA
REEVE
REEVE
ADA REEVE
The Greatest Comedienne in the World.
IVOLI THEAT R E, 1’ E R T 11.
HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
RUSSELL CARR, England’s Premier Ventriloquist.
VERA ROCHDALE,
SIX CAMERONS. GEORGE WHITEHEAD.
ARTHUR DON & PATTY. LAZERN.
HENNESSY & MARTELL. CLARDY BROS.
ALEX. BLACK. SALINGER & HAMILTON.
BENSON & BELLE. TWO PIIILMERS.
PRICES: 3/r, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
E R M A J E S T Y ’ S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 7.50.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Queen of Viennese Comic Operas,
GIPSY LOVE.
The most entrancing musical treat of 1914.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
DELPHI TIIEA T R E. SYDN E Y.
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF “NO MOTHER TO
GUIDE HER.”
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 4.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMBINATION, in
BROUGHT TO RUlfr.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Nicholson’s.
aTYFoN AL THEATRE, SY D N E Y.
Governing Director .... BEN J. FULLER.
At 2.30, VAUDEVILLE TWICE DAILY, at 8.
:/- & 6d. BARGAIN MATINEES DAILY. 1/ & 6d.
THE CASELLI SISTERS. DOROTHY HARRIS.
ED. BLONDELL & KATHERYNE CAINE.
CLEMENT MAY. HELENA BOULTON.
JUNO SALMO. WESTIN & HILL.
LES BAU MALAGA. TROUTTS.
MOLLIE AMBROSE. ZENO & MANDELL.
Evening Prices as Usual.
’Phone: Central 906 for Reservations.
IMPERIAL SALON DE LUXE.
Direction BENDRODT & IRVING.
DANCING IN LUXURY.
TWICE DAILY.
GRAND FAIRY LAND BALL
AUGUST 4.
’Phone, ,682 William Street.
d 1 I i i
T/iV E •LIT T L 15 XIIEA X It E
j ' CASTLEREAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
\ ' MONDAY NEXT, JULY 6.
.NflL' HUGH BUCKLER & MISS VIOLET PAGET
Will present an entirely new play of ABSORBING
INTEREST and HUMAN APPEAL, entitled,
the Piaster of anoerstroom.
BOX PLAN AT PALING’S.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATIIES,
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
CREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller. General Manager.
OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PICTURES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
■ FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
QLACIA It IU M, SYDNEY.
THE 1015-. SK ATI N Gr SEASON
ATTRACTIVE EXHIBITIONS OF FANCY SKATING
BY INTERNATIONAL SKATERS.
DAILY SESSIONS.
10 to 12 a.m. 3to 5 p.m. Bto 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION 2/- SKATES 6d.
’Phone. Glebe 492. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
g 1’ 15 NC 15 It’S LYCE C M, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S IbEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Pricesfl/6,17- & 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
The kincus theatre, melbouhne.
Sole. Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 4.
LEROY TALMA & BOSCO.
MIRTH. MYSTERY. MAGIC.
POPULAR PRICES. PLAN AT ALLAN’S.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
L DUFAU L T ’ S rAKEWELL.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN announces, that just prior to
his departure for Canada
PAUL DUFAUDT
PAUL DUFAULT
PAUL DUFAULT
Will Give
THREE FAREWELL CONCERTS.
TAITS’ AUDITORIUM, MELBOURNE.
WEDNESDAY, JULY'S.
THURSDAY, JULY 9L
FRIDAY, JULY 10. /
PAUL DUFAULT’S FAREWELL.
HICK MAJ EsTY’s Til EAT BE. MEtltOliBAE.
: Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. tin.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Grand Revival of Gilbert and Sullivan Opera.
Commencing with a Gala Production of
THE GOiNDOLIE ii 8.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and! 15..;
Theatre koyal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
in
OFFICER 666.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls. 4/-; Gallery. 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Managing Director: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY LTD.
Present the Stupendous- Pantomime Extravaganza,
ALAIDI N.
Prices: 5/ : , 3/-, 2/- and 1/-, Plan at Pianola.
g I J O U THEATRE, MELIiOURN E.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN. J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
JOSEPHINE GASSMAN’S PICCANINNIES.
VALENTINE & BELL. JOLLY FANNY RICE.
ALFRED LATELL. GUILLAUME BABY & CO.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. MatinGes: 1/6, 1/- & 6d.
Hfl AJTESXIC theatke, meeboukne.
IYI By Arrangement with
AMALGAMATED PICTURES LTD.
SPENOER’TT’ICTIJRKS.
EVERY EVENING.
Plan at Allan’s.
IVI
E E BOURNE
ULACIAKIUM.
ICE-SKATING.
afternoons AT 3.
EVENINGS AT 7.45.
’palace, si elbou k n e.
\A/ E S T’S
the best WEBP S PICTURES the best
op all limited. of all
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST'S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
I> r j ces —Gd. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
BIIt C H & CAItIt O E E
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
' Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres, (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Hroi Office : ROTH WELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
"VOU begin to
1 look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
#r
Lockyer's
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the yair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp ; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
The EVINRUDE
Detachable Rowboat Motor
SIZES:
Ws hp.
2 hp.
3% hp.
Attached to the stern, the Evinrude
Motor makes your rowboat self-
propelling — an efficient motor-boat
with a speed of 8 miles an hour.
Its weight, 50 lbs., permits easy
transportation.
Nine Governments use the
Evinrude Motor on rivers
and seas the world over.
Its adaptability and dura-
bility have appealed to
25,000 users.
Driven by Petrol (gasoline) at low
up-keep cost. Steered by the Propeller
—no rudder required, but supplied if de-
sired. Reversible; battery ignition or Magneto,
and automatic lubrication. Fully guaranteed.
Motors can be fitted with the Famous Maxim
Silencer. Write for Booklet illustrating
and explaining the many uses of this wonderful little motor, to the
Controlling Representative for Australasia and New Zea-
land, H. A. GODDARD, Dept. D-12, 88 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne; Dept. D-12, 194 Vickery’s Chambers, Pitt Street,
Sydney; Dept. D-12, 3 Australasia Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane. Bocal Agents: H. Kennedy, Dept. D-12, Broome,
W.A.; C. J. Ellershaw & Co., Dept. D-12, Perth, W.A.
Agents required in unallotted territory. Apply H. A.
GODDARD. Brisbane.
13
Price 12/“ and upwards ofall Station-
ers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet
about the Onoto Pen free on appli-
cation to Thos. be la Rue & Co.,
Ltd., 322Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 5° York
Street, Sydney.
A<sk for ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens,
Get the \
Ten made and warranted by the
Largest Firm of Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in Great Britain ;
the Onoto. It is All-British ;
designed to last a lifetime. Fills
itself, cleans itself, and cannot
leak.
Onoto
Pen
The Self filling
Safety Fountain Pen.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OP TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
Missing: Friends.
TO WILLIAM STEWART, formerly of
Mangonui, Auckland, New Zealand,
but last heard of in Queensland, and to all
persons claiming by, through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of His Honor
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice
of New Zealand, under Secfion 25 of the
Public Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913,
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the Ist day of
October, 1914. your claim to part of the
estate of CHRISTINA STEWART, late of
Mangonui, Auckland, widow, deceased, who
died on the 9th October, ISSO, intestate,
failing which such estate will be distributed
among the persons entitled thereto disregard-
ing your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
rjTO JOHN LESLIE STEWART, for-
-1- merly of Wellington, New Zealand,
but last heard of at Sydney, New South
Wales, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under him.
Pursuant to the directions of His Honor
Sir Robert Stout, K.C.M.G., Chief Justice
of New Zealand, under Section 25 of the
Public Trust Office Amendment Act, 1913,
you are hereby called upon to send in to the
undersigned, on or before the Ist day of
October, 1914, your claim to the whole or
part of the estate of HESTER STEWART,
late of Kaikoura, New Zealand, widow, de-
ceased, who died on the 28th October, 1912,
intestate, failing which such- estate will be
distributed among the persons entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington this 19th day of
March, 1914.
J. W. MACDONALD,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
('1 EORGE JOHN TORRENS, son of the
jt late Elizabeth Torrens (afterwards
the wife of George William Biles) is
requested to communicate with the under-
signed in connection with a legacy payable
under the Will of the late George William
Biles. J. A. Thompson, Solicitor, A.M.P.
Chambers, 89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A Federal Detective Agency.
j. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Business Notices.
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK
Next time you feel
fagged, try a glass of
Horlick's Malted
Milk. You will feel
the difference almost
at once. You will
note a speedy accele-
ration of energy.
Horlick's rapidly en-
dows the system with
vim, vigour and
vitality.
Ask for Horlick's at
the Soda Fountain.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co.,
26, Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
©
Si
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
Write for Book. CURES W rite for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road, London, En£.
Insist on “ Singleton's' —refuse all substitutes.


LITTLE
MOTHERS
j
m
if
t;
71
1
a
Use
CUTICURA
SOAP
And Cuticura Ointment. They
affoH a pure, sweet and economi-
cal method of preserving, purify-
ing and beautifying the skin, scalp
and hair. For distressing eczemas,
rashes, itchings, inflammations
and chafings of infants, children
and adults Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment are most effective.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout -
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-paga
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
The Liver is the
Road to Health
If the liver is right the whole system Is
right. CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will gently awaken your
sluggish, clogged-up liver
and cure constipation,
stomach trouble, in-
active bowels, loss
of appetite,
sick head-
ache and
dizziness.
Purely
vegetable.
You need them.
Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
Most Diseases are
Caused by Microbes
and the microbes produce fermentation
and decay. To cure the disease it is
only necessary to kill the microbes. The
merits of
RADAM’S
Microbe Killer
are well known all over America, in the
liiast, Canada, England, Europe and
Australia. Write for a booklet to any
of our Agents, who will mail you an
interesting story on the origin and dis-
covery of Radam’s Microbe Killer.
Distributing Agents —
NEW ZEALAND—MaIcoIm & Grigg, 78
Bond Street, Dunedin.
QUEENSLAND—George Gougli & Son,
210 Albert Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Cocking & Co.,
Ltd., Topham Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA—W. W. Dobson,
Agnes Street, Beaconsfield, Fremantle.
NEIV SOUTH WALES —Cromack & Co.,
Royal Exchange Offices, Bridge Street,
Sydney.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA—Duerdin &
Sainsbury, 349 Flinders Lane.
Ask your Chemist, ask your Storekeeper
for Radam’s Microbe Killer. It is your
remedy medicine for every ailment.
if
CARBIDE
9 9
‘•PERIMIX” on every
99 and see -that
you get it, with
the trade mark
Cask and Drum.
Addresses of Merchants distributinsr ifc can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED,
62 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand
CALIFORNIA
Corrugated Culverts.
MADE ONLY OF PUREST IRON.
Do not bother any more with concrete or wooden culverts: concrete
culverts crack and require skill to instal: wooden culverts may rot or be
burned out.
•m
m
!■" ■
THk CALIFORNIA CORRUGATED CULVERT is easily fixed, carries
any load, combines all the requisites of permanent work, and gives you
greater confidence the more you use it.
TRi ONE, any size, 12in. to 84in. dia. It will not cost you much.
Sole Agents :
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. Ltd.
535 Kent Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne
if li
m
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE,
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
Hig Swan-Safety is simpler and more reliable than any
♦other pen made ; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage ; with the ‘"ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the cpiestion; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience: the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
POWWTPBN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue. Free on Ilequest.
iVIABIE, TODD & CO., London, VV.C.
Australia n! Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BLRKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 250 a George St.
, Sydney
Hunyadi Janos
As a remedy for Piles (otherwise Hemorrhoids), Hunyadi Janos
Natural Aper ent Water is world-famous. It is supplied just as
Nature creates it and is speedy and certain in giving relief.
It relieves the conjested veins, create* soft, easy motions and acts
beneficially in every way.
Hunyadi Janos is also a well-known specific for such everyday com-
plaints as Constipation, Liver Troubles, Biliousness and Indigestion,
It is inexpensive and your chemist stocks it.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tho Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
4/6. Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
e ft e c t u ally-
cuts short alt
attacks at
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and in
‘ho cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHtEA and simple DYSENTERY, j
The Inky Way.
From Ernest Low: Associated as I was with the
late “Billy” Melville in the conduct of the Own in
Capetown the year after the wav, I pay this tribute
to the pertinacity with which he pursued a crusade
on behalf of an unjustly-treated fellow-Australian.
Lieutenant Whitton, of the Bushveld Carbineers, was,
without a doubt, a victim to circumstances. What-
ever may have been the guilt of Hancock and Morant
(“The Breaker”), it is certain that this young, in-
experienced officer —scarcely more than a boy—was
dragged into the loathsome business simply through
his devotion to duty and through implicitly obeying
his superior officers. While the youngster languished
in prison, Melville, in the Owl, on the platform
and personally, worked unceasingly on his behalf,
assisted in some small degree by myself. In season
and out of season the Owl fulminated ; public meet-
ings were convened ; influential persons were enlisted
in the causfe ; and the Ministry of the day was never
allowed to forget the subject. Sir Gordon Sprigg,
the then Prime Minister, with whom Melville was a
persona grata, was worried almost to death, and
almost tearfully on one occasion begged the impor-
tunate Melville to have pity on his 70 years and
accompanying infirmities. But Melville ’ kept on
hammering, and ultimately triumphed. Whitton
was released after a long and stern fight thanks
mainly to the man who has just passed out ; a man
who, with all his idiosyncrasies and oddities, was
imbued with a flaming hatred of injustice. Let that
be placed to his credit in the Big Book.
Exasperating item from Maoriland Free Lance:
“Mr. .1, C. Watson, the clean, straight man who was
sometime Prime Minister of Australia, is to edit the
new Labor morning daily, The World, which is
to appear in Melbourne on November 1.” After all
the trouble of erecting a great pile of buildings in
Sydney, and laying down machinery there, and engag-
ing D. J. Gilbert as editor! Too bad!
“Right Wheel”: Just-dead Bennett Burleigh, the
London Daily Telegraph’s war correspondent, had
lost a good deal of his punch when I first ran across
him. That was in S'Africa in 1901. I was with
Plumer’s column on the Oliphants River, helping
Bindon Blood to sweep the Bushveld free of Boev
guerillas who made it their sanctuary after Koomati
Poort was occupied. Burleigh was then heavilv
fleshed, fond of meat and drink, and not at all in-
clined to go hunting for copy. He stayed comfortably
in camp, and shot guinea fowl, which were thick
thereabout. There was a base camp at each ford of
the river, and Burleigh would meet patrol command-
ers when they came in, and get the “facts” from
them. These would appear later in becoming dress,
hot from “our own correspondent,” and with satis-
factory results to all concerned. Most of the mounted
troops being'Australians and Maorilanders, it is need-
less to say the “facts” were invariably beyond all
cavil.
“Stohr Ruddell”: Another word about “bush”
>ea<in&- In 1 / sheds visited between the boundaries
of Hay, Corowa and Jerilderie and from Tocumwal
to Corowa—all in N. S. Wales— l found The
Bulletin, Worker, Garvice and Nat Gould in all;
Oppenheim in six ; Corelli (“Sorrows of Satan”) and
Boothb.v in four: and Merriman, Phillootts, Annie
Swan, Ouida's “Moths,” the War Cry, Conan Doyle,
Bleeds Fitchett, Joseph Hocking. E. F. Benson
Canon Sheehan, Rlatchford, Grant Allen, Ralph
Connor, Bart Kennedy, Mrs. Meade, and Miss Brad-
don in one or more. Merriman was “ringer” with
seven volumes in one shed; Bart Kennedy and Miss
Braddon had several; and Garvice and Gould more
than would have been enough.
“Diorite”: Westralian Laborites propose to start a
i 1 « newspaper of their own, on the modest capital
of L 15.000 and the enthusiasm of the party’s mem-
bers. The Western State’s toilers have good reason to
feel proud of their political successes, but they haven't
so tar shone conspicuously as newspaper owners. For
years one group has run the Worker, to which every
member is bound to subscribe whether he likes it or
not. Its circulation barely exceeds the membership,
which, of course, means that very few people buy it
on its merits. The truth is, the wrong Laborites
have the running of nearly every Labor newspaper.
Jobs on the literary staff are precarious; hence,
though the star|-off may be good enough, soon the
best men drift to other offices, where there is gener-
ally more pay, more permanence and less pin-prick-
ing. The invariable trouble is that the multitudinous
Board of directors is composed of men without anv
special qualification. Westralian Worker, for in-
stance, is controlled, by five men, four of whom were
the other day toiling on the Golden Mile, and never
had any other brand of experience.
During the N.S.W. State election campaign which
extinguished Wade and gave McGowen and Holman
their chance, Labor published a little daily sheet
called the Vanguard— a sort of forerunner' of the
World. As the paper did very effective work, the
party projects a similar venture for the coming elec-
tions. The first issue is expected some time in July.
“Seo”: I have just panned off a week's file of
the Sydney Memoriam Herald, and the result is a
sad and bitter commentary on the o-rief of
the friends of the loved, beloved and” dearly-
beloved who advertise their inconsolable grief
and unutterable woe. Some 180 departeds were
remembered at 3s. per remembrance. Of these
’ ptn cent, had been dead one year 17
per cent two years, and the same number ’three
WnH AftCr H hree yea r s ’ a PP aren tly. the dead are
foi„otten mostly; or the silver is wanted to buv
solace, back a horse or pay for an advt. in another
column. Only 12 departeds were kept in mind four
yeais, and of all those who died five vears ago but
nine were worth sixpence per line. The wav tlm
figures faded after that was a shock to my susceptible
soul On an average, five per year were remem-
bered down to 1902, and only one of the Harvesters
crop of that year ground sixpences into the Fairfax
general election lately concluded in France
Deputlef f
Tunc a Hf aI Se y ctT em h er i 0 >t th , e Fre,lCh aristocracy
life when
corner Bid whrVTh' casuals his street-
cornel . But when the new House met, a>nd his Par
“l ry ICIl C1 ' eW of £OTO a year started, he proba-
TOfld " " tkor Brra ngernents They usually do
POTS OF POISONED BEER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
There is an office you may know,
And it is sown with fear.
For, here and there, set all a-row,
Are pots of poisoned beer.
When day is done, and all are gone,
An editor steals forth ;
lie has his old felt slippers on
And two jugs tipped with froth.
lie fills the pots with horrid skill;
His kind eyes do not blink
As he goes singing, sweet and shrill:
“Drink, gentle poet! Drink!’’
And do they drink? You bet they do!
They scolf it with a cheer!
Why, I have seen them fighting, too,
Around their poisoned beer.
Poor editor! he thinks his beer
Will some day lay them low;
But there is not the slightest fear—
That joy he’ll never know.
But still he sows the place with dread,
And dreams of shrieks of “Wow!”
While singing, with averted head:
“Drink, poet! Prink, you cow!”
KODAK.


“THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN 12-gauge, top lever 30in. steel barrels,
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about 71b
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt £2/5/-
nn one finn. 2/0 N.S.WS/2 Inter-Statu.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g a u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks, .
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6 Mb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. A u to-Ejcctor, 25/".* Non-Ejector, 22/6
Postaye—2/6 N.S.W.
4/S Inter-State.
" The Continental/’ 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case-
hardened locks. 24in. barrel, length over all SB|in.. weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards, Postage—ls. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
35/-
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney ; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
GDNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST and CHEAPEST HOUSE
for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
etc. Post Free
Anywhere.
©
National Arms lo. s 12- or lb-bauge D.d.d.l. uun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about G|lb. to 71b.,
of 16-gauge to DELIVERED,
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at 141- extra. , t
We are the Sole Agents in K.S. W. tor the above Gun, which has been made to our own sp
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
726
©
The “ Continental ” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Birrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
gauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about T^lb.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
j Aa4l
6*
Underwear.
Don’t choose your underwear at random;
let reason be your guide.
Bay Jason for these reasons:
Jason is all pure Australasian-wool; is absolutely unshrink-
able ; is as soft as sil* in wear; is most comfortable:
is perfectly fashioned; is good wearing.
Ones you have worn Jason you w 11 real se how comio'table underwear
can be. And you have the makers' guarantee—if any garment
sorinks it will be replaced free of cost.
Jason Underwear is made in all styles and prices for men.
ladies and children. Infants c Pure White Wear in light
an l medium weights Jason Jerseys for children fear
splendidly. If your dealer does not stock Jason insist
upon his getting it for you.
In case of difficulty, write
JASON UNDERWEAR CO., Leicester, England.
q>
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, lever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, &, Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a triai
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkr.ru?
England, (id. ■ Ilow toGktßich, lsposted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Sii.knt Eriknu, Is 6d. Nkd Donnklly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Danck, Is, post. How to Wrkstlk, Is. Moll
Flandkrs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. AH /.oia’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horse, Is. VkntiuljOquism Madk Easv, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strkngthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth. 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handy rook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
ADVENTURES OF A FLIRT, 1/3. PARLOR TRICKS & GAMES,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free. Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris. Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatc’n-
ford), Od. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neigh dor, (id. Britain fop, the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces. Is 3d. How to
Train fop, all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses.
is 3d. Theory of Value, Is Gd. French Polishing
and Staining. 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, l/S.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Pp,or. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook's Guide, Is Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pa-res.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions tnat occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which’ they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its The new* 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. "*i
gipsy fortune telling cards- love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, Ac., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Skckkts and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working fop. Ama-
tf.up.s, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. ’ How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp os Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyi.ks
Card Games (Rules lor all Games), Is. How to
MV.smerisr, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, is
•posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date. Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (hew), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every’ Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses, Is Sd. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The W aybacks, Is 2d.
All those prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAIL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to it aK ic Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Sonus, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid.
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guidf, to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chkvassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bbnnarr Macfadden's Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar.
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
j s2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. lOONkw
lUxitat i on s and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure. Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
Bound, mv price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete). Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


7
r
C
A NIGHT
ALARM!
WORSE than the alarm of
fire is the brassy cough of
Croup, which sounds like
the children’s death-knell, and it
means death unless something is
done quickly. There is little
time then to send away for help,
and the father and mother must
stand idly by, watching their
darling choke to death unless
they have prudently made pre-
paration for the sudden attack.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
never fails to relieve the
worst form of Croup. There
is no disease that creeps
on more insidiously, or re-
quires more prompt treatment
than Croup. It often comes
without the slightest warning,
the little one going to bed appar-
ently quite well, until the mother
is awakened, distressed and frightened in the middle of the night, by the brassy
cough and the choking for breath. If proper medicine be not instantly given, in
a few hours treatment may be of no avail. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a remedy
which mothers can rely upon, for a few doses will control the cough and relieve
the choking, and continued regular doses will soon make everything right again.
It is the wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of peace, and always keeps a
bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on hand for such an emergency as this.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be safely given to the smallest child, for it con-
tains no opiate or other poisons. It is pleasant to the taste, and the children like
it, so there is never any trouble in getting them to take it.
WHAT A MOTHER SAYS:
“ Often had to send for a Doctor in the middle of the night.
“The last three years,” writes Mrs. (J.
Marriott, Chloride and William Streets,
Broken Hill. N.S.W.. “I have always
kept a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery in the house. My boy used to
suffer very much with Croup, and we
have often had to send for a doctor in
the middle of the night, thinking he
would choke before morning. \lso my
little girl suffered with Croup and Bron-
ehitis very badly, but since I used Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery I have never
had a doctor to them. My little girl’s
Bronchitis is cured, and if ever T find
the slightest sign of Croup on either of
them, I give them a dose of Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery, and it stops it at
once.”
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is an unequalled preparation for the immediate relief
of all diseases of the Throat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including Influenza,
Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Quinsy, Soi’e Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult
Respiration and Pains in the Chest. When used according to directions it is a
sure preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Price 1/6, or in bottles con-
taining two and a half times the quantity, 3/-.
D? Sheldons
Ni
“REX”
Brand.
Give
them
PORK and BEANS.
Yes! give him and the kiddies that wonderfully nutritive and digestible
PORK, with delicious, brown, mealy, tender BEANS. Make it a
meal with a real flavor. Like all “Ilex” products their purity and
wholesomeness is guaranteed. They “build up.”
Just you try them to-day.
OTHER “REX” PRODUCTS ARE:—
“REX” BRAND (CANNED) DELICACIES.
Ham Pate, M lb. tins,
Pork Brawn, lib. tins,
Pork and Beans, I*4 lb. tins,
Lunch Tongues, in Jelly, lib. tins,
Veal and Tongue Pate, % lb. tins,
Pork Sausages, lib. tins,
Pigs’ Feet, in Jelly, lib. tins,
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese, ooz. tins,
and
“Rex” Brand Lard for Cooking Purposes, in lib. prints.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GROCERS.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Curers of “Rex** Hams and Bacon.
Packers of “Rex** Pure Food Products.
Makers of “Rex** Small Goods.
The Song of the Younger Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rri HE Old Men sit at the Council, crafty
and wise with years,
Mouthing the Old Men’s proverbs, filled
with the Old Men’s fears ;
And they tell of a young land’s folly, of a
nation mad with haste,
As they hark away to an ancient day
When that land was named a waste.
And the grey heads nod together, as they
speak of a strange unrest —
To the Old Man, done with striving, peace
ever seems the best —
And they seek to stay with a precept, with
the stroke of a futile pen,
With a sounding phrase from the olden
days
The march of the Younger Men.
Son of a Scottish crofter, son of an English
hind,
Son of an, Irish rebel—seed of the venturing
kind —
Here is a tie to bind usj here is a bond shall
hold:
This is the land we know and love, scorning
the things of old!
Naught of an old land calls us — highland, or
meadow, or fen.
Ours is the voice of the Nation! Way for
the Younger Men!
For ye of the older order let there be fitting
praise.
We pay our meed to our fathers and the
labor of their days.
They ventured, as brave men venture, out of
a Northern clime
In a goodly cause; and they lived by
laws
Wrought in an olden time.
But we are thg country’s children ; we are
the Nation’s own ;
And the hope of our hearts is ever with
the land where we have grown.
Ye have fashioned and planned and figured
by an ancient rule o’ thumb;
Ye have cleared the way; ye have served
your day;
Now have the Builders come!
Out of the Isles of Britain, Germany, Fin-
land, France,
They came—yet half regretting, with many
a backward glance ;
They carved them a place for their children
by the work of their strong, brave
hands;
Toiled with a will and a manly skill
Learned in the older lands.
But ever their hearts were yearning for a
scene of the olden kind ;
And ever their eyes were turning to the
land they had left behind ;
And ever a vague hope held them that once,
ere they went to rest,
They would journey again to the valley,
the plain,
In the land that they loved the best.
And all that they fashioned and builded, all
that they planned and wrought
Was after the ancient model, in the way
that their fathers taught.
And the Old World’s modes and customs,
and the Old World’s feuds and spites
Have they fostered here full many a year;
But the Young Men claim their rights.
For the Young Men wait impatient while
the Old Men linger yet
Maundering still at the Council of the things
they will not forget.
We are tired of their brawls and wrangles,
tired of their precepts sage;
But the knell is tolled of the order old
When the Young of age.
For their vision, so dulled and blunted by
the bounds of the older land,
Saw naught of the new land’s vastness,
naught of its promise grand.
Cooped in their crowded cities built by the
ocean’s rim,
Naught cared they for the lands away
Back in the distance dim.
But we of the clearer vision, we of the
broader view
Chafe at the Old World's shackles, longing
to build anew.
Out o’er the rolling spaces, there is our
young gaze bent.
And our eyes are wide with a brave young
pride—
Viewing a continent.
Still do the greybeards linger, mouthing
their platitudes,
Clinging to dead traditions, cherishing old-
time feuds;
And the bland, unfaithful statesman, seeking
their cause to guard,
With a sophist’s tongue would cheat the
young....
Oh, the ways of the old die hard !
And the grey heads wag their warning, and
the old hands shake with fear,
And the old tongues con the wisdom of a
sage of yester-year.
But the hearts of the Young are gladdened
with a vision beyond their ken;
And the land around shall a slogan
sound —
’Tis the chant of the Younger Men !
We have winnowed your ancient wisdom,
marking each fault and flaw;
We have noted the evil borrowed from the
dregs of an olden law;
And we pledge our youth to the building in
our great and glorious land,
And the senile rage of a bygone age
Shall never delay our hand!
Had our fathers lagged in the old land, fear-
ing the strange and new,
We had been hinds and peasants, helots and
rebels too.
But we found in our own loved country,
space for our souls to grow.
Yield ye then to the Younger Men!
For the things of the eld must go!
The Old Men sit at the Council, weary and
sick with years,
Mouthing the Old Men’s proverbs, filled
with the Old Men’s fears.
But the Young Men wait at the portal, and
their cries shall never cease
For the stress! the storm! Oh, their
veins run warm....
But the Old Men long for peace.
"W ay for the Nation Builders! Way for
the Younger Men!
For our eyes have seen a vision that is far
beyond your ken.
W e are the New Land’s children, proud of
a nation’s birth!
And the New, White Race shall take her
place
’Mid the Peoples of the Earth!
Son of a Scottish crofter, son of an English
hind,
Son of an Irish rebel —here is a. tie shall
bind:
We are the Land's own people: ice of the
native born!
Here is a land we know and love• and the
fends of old we scorn!
Naught of the Old World calls us — high-
land, or meadow or fen.
Ours is the voice of the Nation! Way for
the Younger Men!
VICTORIA.
O. J. DENNIS.
The Knock.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE old man with the bowyangs took
up his kit bag, looked out into the
wet street for a moment, and then
said, “I’ll be gettin’ now, gel.”
“What time will you be home, dad?”
“Twelve o’clock, as usual, me gel.”
Then he went out into the rain.
The girl commenced to wash up the break-
fast things, singing in a wild, bird-like way
catches of the latest popular songs. She
had a pretty face, and her actions were quick
and flirty like the feathered creatures whose
voice she had inherited. She seemed to stand
for melody and sunbeams on the teeming day
of rain.
Suddenly a deeper shadow blotted the open
door. Without looking round her song
was stopped, and her face stiffened into seri-
ousness. while she held a plate in one hand
and a dishcloth in the other.
“The old bloke gone?” asked the blot.
He leaned one shoulder in* the door jamb.
His hands were thrust deep in his trouser
pockets, and in one corner of a drooping
mouth a cigarette stuck as if it were more
for ornament than for combustion.
“Well,” she cried, swinging suddenly round
and facing him, the plate and dishcloth still
in her hands, “you’re ’ere, ain’t yer?”
“Can’t yer see?” he asked quietly.
“Well, yer wouldn’t be ’ere. if dad was
’ome.”
“The old cow!” he grunted. Then he
jerked his head back at the weather outside.
“'S goin’ ter be a cow of a day. Did think
I’d go to the breadcarters’ picnic. S’pose
it’ll be off now.”
It was characteristic of the man that the
dead end of the cigarette remained always
stuck in the same place. It must have grown
there. The girl turned back to the sink and
proceeded with her work, but all the bird-
like joyousness was gone from her.
He crossed and half sat on the kitchen
table, one leg dangling, and lit a match, but
seemed to change his mind about smoking,
and threw the match into the fire. Instead
he looked hungrily at the girl.
“Are yer working, Jim?”
He was slow in reply. “Wot’s the good?”
“Dad says that you could easily go back to
your trade. He says you are a good worker
if yer only like.”
“Oh, I know all about that,” he said with
a touch of carelessness. “Tell yer what. I’ll
go back ter work if yer’ll ’ave me, Flo?”
Her face flushed and she turned away from
him, giving him the full sight of her back.
“You ’ave no right to talk to me like that,”
she said with a huskiness in her voice. “I’m
not that sort of girl,” she added in a very low
tone.
For a few moments they remained in the
same positions, the only sound coming from
the clock on the shelf, and the splashing of
the rain outside. He seemed inclined to
light his cigarette, but the match was un-
struck.
“ ’Ave yer ’eard of Liz?” she asked at
length, still with her back to him.
He merely hoisted his shoulders gloomily,
and then struck the match.
“You might ha’ stuck to her better than
you did, Jim. I always think the best of
Liz. Dad savs it is no use expectin’ to be
happy married if ver don’t pull together, an’
yer know, Jim, you wasn’t altogether straight
with her yerself.”
“Can’t make out ’ow I ever married the
blighter.”
“You must ha’ been fond of her, Jim.”
“She must ha’ had me blind,” he said with
a snarl.
She turned a little to him. “What wuz
wrong with her?”
“What wuzn’t wrong with her? She
nagged, for one thing,” he said. “Blow me
kite ’igh, I can’t stand a nagger at any
price. If I did wrong she nagged, if I did
right she nagged. Oh, let us drop ’er, d —n
’er.”
He had approached the girl, and now laid
a hand on her shoulder. She seemed to
wince.
“En’ there wuz a little moll named Flo,”
he added gently.
She shook his hand from her shoulder
angrily.
“Give us a charnce, Flo?” he asked.
She shook her head without looking at him,
her head drooping, and nervously plucked at
the dishcloth which she still held in her hand.
“You’re shook on me, I know.”
Suddenly she swung round on him with a
peal of wild laughter.
“On you ? Why, you must be mad !” she
cried bitterly. “Why should I care for you ?
Why, you’re not even pretty, en’ ye’re mar-
ried already, and ye’re a loafer, en’ no good,
en’ never will be.” She looked him up and
doAvn scornfully. “Yer kid yerself, I don’t
think. Why, I wouldn’t look at yer if yer
wuz the last man alive.”
Then she started to wash up feverishly, her
face flushed.
Another shadow fell into the room, which
neither of them saw. The newcomer took
in the situation with quick, masterful eyes,
(Continued on next page.)


.
&
%
t
Peps Guard
Throat & Lungs.
Everyone needs Peps at this time
of the year, because this scientific
breathable medicine in tablet form
gives just the help Nature requires
to fight against the hidden perils of
chilly July, when the weather is
treacherous. Be it only a husky
cough, a slight irritation in the
throat, or just a suspicion of pain
and soreness about the chest, it is
time to take a few Peps, which are
entirely different from old-fashioned loz-
enges and drug-laden mixtures, but infinitely
more effective.
The Peps way of stopping chest troubles is Nature’s
way. As the little brown tablet dissolves in the
mouth, the medicinal pine-air is released in the form of
fumes which mix with the breath and thus convey a valuable
soothing and strengthening agent direct through the bronchial
tubes to the lungs, which cannot be reached by liquid mixtures that are
simply swallowed into the stomach.
A Comforting Glow in tHe CHest,
as the Peps fumes enter, stimulates the whole of the breathing organs, and
means defence against coughs, colds and chills, which, unresisted, would
work havoc with the strongest constitution. The Peps fumes are not
merely antiseptic, but germicidal. They destroy the cold-germ, protect the
delicate lining membrane of the throat and bronchial tubes from dangerous
infection, and positively arrest chest trouble in its earliest stage.
There can be no finer safeguard against the perils of July’s chilly days
than Peps, which are a unique concentration of the particular medicines
which Nature has furnished for the treatment of human throat and chest
ailments. Peps contain no opium or other harmful drugs, and are as
useful to the apparently robust as they are absolutely indispensable to the
weak-chested and convalescent. PEPS NIP A COLD IN THE BUD.
PEPS GO DIRECT TO THE LUNGS
Peps, the unequalled
remedy for Throat
and Chest co m-
plaints, are obtain-
able from all chem-
ists, at 1/6 and 8/-
per box; or direct
from Fulford (A’sia)
ltd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
ft
THE TRUE BREATHING CUBE.”
A Remarkable Remedy.
Few medicines have met with more favor or accomplished more good than
Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
It has relieved more pain and suffering and saved the lives of more people
than any other preparation in use. One or two doses of it is enough to relieve
an ordinary attack of colic or diarrhoea. It has been used in many epidemics of
dysentery with perfect success.
It relieves bowel complaints in their most severe forms and is especially valu-
able for diarrhoea and summer complaint in children.
wm,
X
X
'V\
■
' »
X>:
- mm.
X>
x;
y
i
i
53^
ar
?s
<s
isS)
&
SS5>
Si
5S>
S 3
I
sy
Cranny
(,Cof>vi?iGnTtD.|
CROUP
“ I don’t think there is a more anxious time
for parents than when their child ren have croup.
Without they are prepared with Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy they must wait for the doctor
and listen to the choking metallic cough and
watch their little one gasping for breath.
You know the great danger of croup is the
formation of a false membrane in the voice box,
and until this is expelled relief cannot be
obtained and the spasmodic choking continues.
Give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in frequent
doses. It will loosen this membrane and caxrse the child to expell it by
vomiting.
COUGH REMEDY
is an absolutely safe and certain remedy for croup, and if given as soon as
the child becomes hoarse or even after the croupy cough appears, it will prevent
the attack.”
Q&i'm ySc/I^XX^XA-
anti then caught the shoulder of the weedy
man with the cigarette end stuck on his under
lip.
"I say,” he said, “you must go. You know
you're not wanted.”
"1 don’t know so much about not being
wanted.” said the weed, sulkily.
“Well, get out, ennyway,” said the other
man, threateningly.
The girl had looked uu and suspended her
washing.
“Too wet to work, Fred?” she asked.
“Yes,” he said shortly. And then: “Say
the word, Flo, and I’ll put him out” —indi-
cating Jim.
“Oh, I’ll go without being put,” said the
weed. “But I’ll come back again, Flo. I’ll
come back just once, en’ for the last time.”
He spoke slowly, with emphasis on every
word, and then slunk away.
The man who remained sat down and
started to fill his pipe.
“I thought we’d seen the last of that bloke
weeks ago,” he remarked as he lighted up.
“He never was much good, but since his wife
went wrong he seems to be broken right, up.
I can’t make out what brings him here.”
“I suppose he likes a little company,” said
the girl carelessly. “Everybody seems to
have turned on him except the push. I know
he’s blamed for his wife, but Liz must ha’
been inclined that way. It’s a bit of ’ard
luck it bein’ wet to-day,” she added.
“I don’t mind so much now,” said Fred.
“You see, I’ve struck it lucky this time.”
And, as he smoked, he told her how, in
contract work, the surveyors make mistakes
in the strata of earth that must be shifted.
In putting down the bore they strike rock,
and therefore estimate that it must be
rock on the level right through the section.
In his case this had occurred, but on working
the earth they found that there was lit lie
else but loam to be shifted.
“Which means, Flo,” he said, “that instead
of clearing about £2OO as L estimated when
1 put in for the contract,. I’ll clear over
£1000.”
The girl was genuinely delighted.
“My word,” she said, laughing, “isn’t ic
splendid?” .
Impulsively she danced up to lnm and
kissed him.
“When I shift it all and settle up, I’m
going to buy old Morgan’s place. 1 must
take you round to see it, Flo. It is a fine
house, and stables with stalls for 12 horses.
It seemed beyond my dreams. God must
have been thinking of us, Flo, when the
surveyors put down the bore just on that
bit of rock.”
And while the rain teemed outside lie fell
to dreaming aloud, dreaming of more horses
and drays, a large yard and stables and big
contract work, and a bird-like girl he had
come to look upon as his.
The evening came. It was still wet. The
girl with the voice and the ways of a bird
was sitting perched on the middle of the bed.
her hands clasping her knees. She seemed
to be listening, expecting something.
The darkness fell quickly on account of
the rain-charged air. It stole towards the
window like a blot, and gradually it went
away, leaving the girl still sitting, wait-
ing for a sound, with her hands clasping her
knees. She had let her hair fall about her
shoulders in a heavy mass.
It seemed hours that she sat so. At
length she heard the door-knob of the front
door turn. She had locked the door when
her father left to attend the league meeting.
Then came a low rap with the knuckles —
one. two.
But the girl didn’t shift. Her ear
seemed to move, and a startled look came
to her eyes.
After a pause came again the gentle knock
—one. two, three. It seemed as if the one
who knocked meant that only one should
know that he wished admittance.
The girl, squatting on the bed. seemed to
petrify, but each tap that came made her
wince. She seemed afraid.
Patiently and stealthily the gentle knock
came at long intervals. Within, the girl
was as still as the dead, and outside a dark
figure crouched as close to the door as it
could, to escape the rain, but seeming to
know that the persistence of the knock
would at length bear results.
And at length the girl in the bedroom
rose impulsively and slipped on her boots.
Hurriedly she made a bundle of some clothes
hanging on the wall, and then she flung open
the door.
She barely glanced at the man who still
had the cigarette end stuck on his under lip.
She banged the door after her. and said
“Come on” in a hard voice, and went off at
a run.
The man seemed to lose grip of things for
a moment. He stared after her as if he
was uncertain what it could mean. Then
he started in pursuit with a sort of lope.
ROBERT PROTHERS.
Tommy and the Boiler.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WAS never unnatural nor perverse at
all in Tommy Doyle. Any man
would resent it:. Cleaning boilers
on the Sabbath is work for the misbegotten
heathen, with no Christian conscience to
him, and none of the natural prejudices of a
gentleman against heat and rust and black
dirt would make a worse smudge on the
Devil’s self. And Doyle had been in the
Prince Charlie boilers from 7 a.m. to the
click of noon, and here was Stiffen-me
Wheelan calling him back to the infamous
task, declaring with high swearing and the
shake of his fist there were three old cats
could be got for itlie asking that would
scratch a boiler more decent and becoming.
’Twas Andy Bannerman and little Phil
Stoole did work with Doyle in the boiler.
A one got to liis job through the mantrap
you’d pull an eel out difficult, by the tail,
too. and black was it in there, and sweaty
from the smell of the tires being recent, and
the settled mud from the dam water was
own brother to the grease they’d be fryin’
from Kaffir savages in the kitchen of Green-
land. Phil Stoole, a shrimp of. a man who
could, wriggle through the fingers of a Scotch
liawker in Donegal, went in with never a
qualm; and Andy Bannerman, a tre-
mendous lean man like nothing but two
sticks leaning one to the other, need have
no thought of the morrow in a boiler, and
the day after, may be. But Doyle was a
fine, great man, with the gatherings of fat
living to him, round as a show-time boar,
and to get in that bit of a mean manhole
must nip the skin to his ribs with squeezing
and grunting.
So ’twas natural, I say, and never vexa-
tiousness nor unreasonable in Doyle when
he swore the whole board of directors to
Hell, and put his curse on Mr. Stiffen-me
Wheelan that sweet, warm Sunday after-
noon, called from his pipe, and the bottle
half full, and widow-woman Clinch smil-
ing by the hollyhocks, to pinch himself into
the fiend’s bath-tub once more. Doyle
turned to his work grudging, and in he went
after wee Phil Stoole, and that rope’s end
of a shrunk Sligo jug-thief. Bannerman. and
he worked from four till eight, when ’twas
most needful to fire up for the shift due
Monday’s morn at one, clear of the Sab-
bath.
Phil slipped out easy as a greased wee
pig. and Andy was through, too, like a
lizard would flirt ’twixt two big hills, and
they would both turn to give Doyle a hoist.
But for what reason saints know,
Tommy oozed up one-lmlf and stuck. Phil
pulled and Andy pulled, and what’s more
they pulled both, but could you shift Tommy
Doyle? A r ou could not so much as would
bate a trap for a fairy from Clare.
So Phil ran running, crying a terrible
noise, and Stiffen-me Wheelan came from
his bed, limping in only one leg of his trou-
sers, and the two stern little terrible men,
being directors, came from church in their
silk hats, and the surface boss, and the
general manager, and the battery manager,
and the boss below, and the engine-driver,
and Clark, and Gleeson, and Ilobe, and
Wybrow. They all came, and some women,
too, to cry a deal with the children. And
the inhabitants of far and near they came,
and everyone was most positive, with great
talk, how Tommy Doyle could be got out of
the boiler.
Once in a way they pulled him by the
arms, betimes they pulled him by the head,
and all Tommy did was squeal and ask
for the last word with Father Ilegan.
Father Ilegan being that day far off at
Colah’s Bore, Tommy was like to die with-
out the blessings and the sign.
“Will no one lave me alone never?” wailed
Tommy Doyle. “Will ye pull the limbs off
me at all, and the head off me too, till ye
stritch a man’s neck so long he’ll need a
horse ride t’ give himself his bit dinner?”
The learned men all stood round and
conferred, and talked wise engineering and
geometry, and algebra and inner theology,
but Tommy Doyle stuck to his boiler, he
did, and says he piteous: “To Hell wid yer
talk,” he says. “’Tis right you’d be singin’
hymns for a man’s soul, him dyin’ fast in a
boiler, choked round the waist wid an mild
iron pot size iv a house. A man would
starve foi‘ the taste of a drop iv drink t'
hear ye all discoursin’ ’n’ waggin’ yer whis-
kers so. Per the love iv Heaven give me
dthrink !”
But they wouldn’t give him drink for the
fear of swelling him tighter to the man-
hole, and one was for bleeding him to shrink
him, arid one was for lighting the tires in
the boiler to sweat him out, and one or
two agreed most kindly ’twould be expedi-
tious to hitch German Harry’s big horse to
the poor man and pull, so making a sort of
test case of it between Tommy and the
horse. “Annyway better pull him out a
mile than lave him growed to a devil iv a
iron boiler all the days iv his life ’n’ afther,”
said Wheelan.
Tommy objected from the very first. “I’ll
not have it,” said he. “Put it t’ the vote ’n’
carry it unan’mus,” he said, “’n’ aven then
I’ll not have it. ’Tis careful I have t’ be ’n’ me
t’ be married a week come Monday; but I’d
ask the widdy Clinch wed wid a man ha’f a
boiler before you'd pull me be a horse, ’n’
tear the top off me, Heaven helpin’.”
So they greased Tommy Doyle an inch,
and they pulled him again, all hands, till
the yells he made was heard by every man
there a mile off. “Yill cut the boiler,” said
Tommy, “’n’ not tear limb be limb ez good
a Cath’lic ez there is in all Bungaree. Cut
the boiler wid chisels, ’n’ have me out.”
By this time ’twas twelve of the night,
and ’twas likely the Prince Charlie mine
would lose a shift. Said one of the severe
little men in their Sunday hats so high:
“My good man —my dear, good man, have
patience. We cannot destroy property.
Consider the loss if we cut the boiler. Pray
have patience.” And Tommy looked him
in the eye. “Then have your own way,”
says he, “so you don’t cut me through, or
blow me up, or tear me down wid horses.
Meanwhile,” says he, “if you’ll talk quiet I’ll
be takin’ me natural sleep,” he says.
Sleeping and waking Tommy Doyle
stayed there till peep of day, when he asked
a hand of Wheelan, and one of the woeful
and sore perplexed stern gentlemen in the
great high hat, and they pulled, and Tommy
came out. like the cork from a bottle. In
his bed he lay that day comfortable, with
the widow Clinch to nurse him. “Would a
man not be contint?” said he. “Never will
they dar’ put Tommy Doyle to a boiler from
this day, ’n’ there’s no doubt to me mind at
all I’ll be askin’ fair damages.” “An’ yell
did it all iv yer own divilment. Tommy
darrlin’?” cries the widow. Tommy winked
a sly eye. “Never from this blessed day will
they put Tomiriy Doyle be a boiler,” said he.
’Twas the awesome little man with the fine,
shining, Sunday hat took Tommy twenty
pounds, with the compliments of the board
of directors, and 'twas Tommy wed and lived
happy ever after.
EDDYSON.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
wm
•7
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westisighouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents— Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
WOOD-WORKINC MACHINES
OF QUALITY
Manufactured by
BOUNDERS,
STOCKHOLM,
i m
have characteristics not found in other makes. They are particularly mas-
sive in construction —every part is easily accessible, and they are fitted with
Ball Bearings throughout.
Catalogue and list of Australian users on application.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
:
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
M _ *1
Works—Sturt St., South Melbourne.
yiHnsTHuwv
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUM ELY KEROSEN E
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL boring plants,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
Sington-UMC
Hf
Loaded
ngland
&
i
PS*
REMINGTON
. UMC ,
To meet the constantly increasing demand
throughout the British Empire for Remington-
UMC cartridges, this company has established
a branch factory, equipped with the latest im-
proved machinery, at Brimsdown, near London,
where “Arrow” and “Nitro Club” (steel lined),
the “Remillion” (a new smokeless powder cart-
ridge at a lower price), and “New Club” (black powder)
cartridges are now being loaded.
The same cartridge cases and primers, which have
made Remington-UMC cartridges prime favorites every-
where, are now offered in combination with the best
brands of English powder and shot.
See that your dealer supplies you with the Remington-
UMC (Red Ball) brand—backed by fifty years of ammu-
nition making experience.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P- O. Box €B6 Melbourne
For sale by leading dealers
everywhere
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
I HAVE INSIDE KNOWLEDGE
ABOUT THE MERITS OF
BEECfUMS PlliS
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
dM
!: O'
cnoH,
SJVE PSO
rs &i
iners.
Take my advice and buy your
Woodworking Machines at
KIRCHNER & CO.
32 MarKet Street, Sydney.
They hold the largest stock in Australasia. They give you
value for your money. They are the manufacturers, and can
save you the heavy middleman's commission. Their
machines are up to date and reliable. They stock all spare
parts and reserve tools. It will be a pleasure to you and
your men to work their machines.
Go and see them to-day, or ’phone City 7091.
CASH OR TERMS, CATALOGUES FREE.
Pre*eminent
as the Queen of Dress Fabrics is
LOUIS
VELVETEEN,
with all its charming lustrous
finish; draping exquisitely to suit
the clinging fashions of the day—
yet sold at a price within the
reach of all.
DO NOT TOLERATE A SUBSTITUTE.
Every Yard you buy
should be stamped L*o*U*l*S
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
RIFE mm RAM
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in Hrst cost, easy to insta), no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC DAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
, WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
'* • : ’ ' r ■


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof,
•Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD..
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office : 19 Queen Street.
PIPE THREADING
TOOLS
For the man who wants nothing: but the
best—
there is no turning back over
THE FINISHED THREAD WITH AN
OSTER—the Dies open and the Stock is
instantly removed from the pipe by a
simple turn of a thumb screw.
Think what this advantage means over
other styles. They possess other features,
too, which make them INDISPENSABLE
TO THE PROGRESSIVE SHOP
A vents:
Call and see a demonstration, or write for booklet on “Pipe Threading/'
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD..
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, GO Clarence Street, SYDNEY
It is the Power
Your Belt
Transmits
that
Counts.
&
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
beltlnq
Sole Agents _
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Tangye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines.
Clayton & Shutlleworth Portable Steam
Engine.
Wolseley Crutching Plants.
Mnnro Kandy Bagiter Chati cutt«*r
OiilNll ANVdWOO 9 AI33IVQ
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears,’ etc., etc.
CLAYTON G SHITTLEWOBTII: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Koad Boilers, etc.
NICHOESON & MOBROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNP.O Chaffeutters and Saw Benches.
gane miuking machines.
1
D ALGETY & C° LTP,
—• AGENTS/--
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
Gail and Inspect Our Showroom.
MASON Regulatings Devices
We are the Agents for
THE MASON REGULATOR COMPANY
and carry complete stocks of their
ALL BRONZE STEAM REDUCING VALVES,
IRON BODY STEAM REDUCING VALVES,
WATER REDUCING VALVES,
PUMP PRESSURE REGULATORS.
When others give trouble, try a
MASON. They Never Fail.
If you are interested let us send you the latest edition of their Catalogue, just
to hand.
Sole Agents for Australia—
H. P. GREGORY (& CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Nat Semi Diesel Oil Engines
MARINE OR STATIONARY.
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most Simple and Economical—no Valves, Timing
Gear or Water Spray. Some prices for Marine Outfits,
complete with Reverse Gears, Shafts and Propellers,
Delivery from Stock: 7h.p., £135; 9h.p., £143; 12h.p.,
£162; 15h.p., £200; 20h.p., £255; 24h.p., £300; 30h.p.,
£382; 40h.p., £5lO.
Sole Australian Agents s
War burton, Franki Ltd.
307 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANCAR GEDYE & C°
i "•■aBT
Efce BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
G'/ie CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
K6e AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
In Other 'Words—
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H, V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
oror
Sydney Municipal Council has placed a Repeat Order for Two IQOC-K.W. Sets,
together with Two 560-K.W. Boosters for Phillips Street Sub-station
On Account of their Very High Efficiency.
Want Reduced Conversion Costs write
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
