

DEWAR’S MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. G. WATKINS «S£ CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Stiroeft, Sydney,
—won— n m . .
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Secend-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
QMV swaax A'
N-5 W MONT DE PIETE D SI C?
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
* 159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W,
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
*
'•X^mTr
—aas- —
(adley’s Orient fjotel.
Richardson’s
Wine and Spirit Stores,
68 Market Street, Sydney
158 Russell Street, Melbourne
Bottle, Case or Gallon at Wholesale Price.
à
Huttcm'd
Ham£* 6acoi\
'Jaxc" »
9
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctor’s as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
i tmekb
«Ju
BENIMg
F.r INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets a«ts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
L.
are specially construded to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBRER CO.,
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASTLE
ts
DRINK
WHITE
1
ROOFS
are the roofs being used on a very large proportion of the beautiful homes of
America. The moneyed American wants the best—his architect gives him White
Malthoid. He knows it will outlast all other roofings and never give any trouble.
Might we send you booklets and samples ?
Wj:
■
JSraai
int
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian Representative,
House, .Sydney
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKINC PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
LYDE
£NGINDLRI»N€
TD
L
á
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
OF
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney, and Rodfern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1784.]
[Thursday, April 23, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW FICTION.
Parrish: The Air Pilot.
Davies: Widow’s Necklace
Hungerford’s Little Corky.
Stevens: Sarah Eden.
White’s. Gold.
Burgess: With Drums Unmuffled.
Erskine: Eye of Dread.
Gosse: The Milky Way.
Keating: The Perfect
Harre: The Eternal Maiden.
Runkle: Scarlet Rider.
Maclagan: Collision.
At 3/6 poo Vol„ posted
At GEORGE ROBERTSON 6 CO., PROP’T’Y, LTD.,
1
3/0.
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
The Great Antiseptic, Cleanses, Preserves and Whitens the Teeth.
The Best Safeguard against Disease is a CLEAN MOUTH AND TEETH.
Hudson’s Eumenthol TootH Powder
SECURES SOUND WHITE TEETH AND A HEALTHY MOUTH.
Some practical reasons why Hudson’s Eumenthol Tooth Powder
should be used for Cleansing and Preserving the Teeth.
BECAUSE it contains the Gerrijicidal and Antiseptic virtues
that have made Eumenthol Jujubes famous the world over.
BECAUSE it is not only an Antiseptic and Germicide, but
cleanses mechanically, owing to the evolution of oxygen when in
contact with water or moisture.
BECAUSE it is the oxygen which whitens the teeth so wonder-
fully, and wards off decay as no other preparation for the teeth
can do, or will do, without affecting the -Tooth Enamel.
BECAUSE the Committee of the British Dental Association
recommends Powder in preference to Pastes, Liquids or Soaps for
cleasing and preseiving the teeth.
Sold at Chemists and Stores, price 1/6. t 3
HOW TO USB THB POWOIR
'mw
March
The Red Page
__ C *°, mpetltlori grows keener. There were
01 Marches entered. Sonnets of the f.a.q.
standard were submitted by: Ben Sun, Ruth
Monteagle Varley, M. B. Kent, Hy. Pottage,
H. Russell Bruford, Thos. V. Tierney, Ethel
Brent, L.A.C. (an obstetric case—both doing
well) L. J. Villiers, George R. H., R. Blan-
tyre, L. A. Roylett (with a nice sestette),
Jane Cornstalk, Anna Hodge, Kuaka, Leslie
Lee, M. B. Kent (who calls March a suffra-
gette).
Room for three _ good Australian humor-
ists, the first requiring four rimes for his
octette:—
’Ere goes ter give a wallop iv me time,
Ter sling Miss March er little bit er kid.
En struth 1 I’m glad ter lif’ me bloomin’ lid
1° er . en praise ’er up in sorter rime.
Fer square ’n’ all, she’s jist the little tart
As knows wot’s wanted fer me w’eat ’n’ wool.
Up goes me tile! Me bloomin’ tanks is full,
En lambin’ grass ’s got er bonza start.
I m full er joy when ole Feb. does a get,
Fer strike me ’e’s a dry ole wowser bloke.
A bummer too, ’e mops up all me wet,
En leaves me cartin’ jooee fer me ole moke,
bo I m some glad to dook Miss March, you bet!
ker don’t she bring a million tons er soak?
Cocky Jim.
This month is jist the moral uv a tart
Thet kim up to a station I wuz at.
A boshter tabby, neither thin ner fat,
En woto fer a hottie—et the start 1
She didn’t kid yer long—’er bloomin’ dart
Jis got yer goin’ like yer ’ad a rat,
En then she cooled yer wif, “Ring off o’ that,
Yer am t got Buckley's fer me ’and en’ ’eart!”
That March’s way—-it gits a break uv heat
.Like kliner s kisses w’en yer ’oldin’ on,
Erbout the finish uv a smoodgin’ meet’
Before it’s oyer, w’ere the blazin’ shone,
Down Hughie’s rain comes, en’ the summer’s
sweet
Ter take the offis straight it mus’ be gone.
Mick Much.
£? rd n m , e . days! Yous blokes ’d make me sick
Ihe high-falutin’ way yer talk round things,
As if the munce was bloomin’ girls with wings.
Or things yer see w’en ’eavy on the shick.
Lor, lummy! If yer o’ny seen a brick
j ne , ver cab it that, but say it brings
Cathedrals to yer minds w’ere angels sings.
W y don t yer tell us straight ’bout March down Vic?
Of all fool munce from off the year unwound
tins mark-time March ’d give yer most the pip.
Lwixt hot n cold, ’n’ Footer ain’t yet round,
rd i-t° p *x, s w ’ er > nights begin ter nip.
It s tike a bloke ’oo makes from bed a bound—
then cant make up his mind ter ’ave ’is dip.
Last Hope.
Sonnets of excellent quality were sub-
nutted bv: C. E. Moore, Duncan Brown,
G.B.D Allen baiToll, Alexa Proudfoot (two
entr l S. Elliott Napier, Amos McKenzie.
. ventures on the metaphor of a
jackal, where a dingo is more Australian:—
Red jowl’d and creeping close at Summer’s heels,
Inis jackal, March, comes seeking her lean share
r rom out the stricken earth and quivering air
but overstrains the metaphor.
G B.D. makes of the word “tired” two
Australian drawl-syllables; but thus finely
enas
A crystal bowl she holds within her hands,
killed with the juice that banishes regret,
The ichor of the month made eloqu. nt.
And Syd C., by lack of compactness in his
sestette, spoils this pleasant beginning:—
The creeks are up, and rising rivers pour,
Brown and tumultuous, through the fragrant earth,
kast filming green, to meet the virile mirth
Of waves that shout full-throated on the shore.
Ihe lissom saplings, quickened to the core,
Llisten bronze-crested with the new leaves’ birth
And bees, gainst coming time of transient dearth!
krom knots of bloom fast overfin their store.
Five sonnets survive the test of poetic
quality. Marie E. J. Pitt uses a wrong rime-
scheme for an octette that is followed by
these fine lines:—
Why cease the dancers? Trails the slackened bow
On strings that fired their flying feet of old,
And all their laughter dies ; with laggard tread
On mourning uplands flushed with windy red
The young year moves, among her braided gold
A silver strand, the first faU of the snow.
And then there were four: Nina Murdoch,
Helen Power, Mary A. K. Robb, A. Gore-!
Jones all women. Nina Murdoch, as usual,
supplies the most characteristically Austra-
lian pageant; but her sestette looks too much
like patch-work.
On the lush flats and reedy swamps again
1 lie slender ibis goes upon its way.
The freshened creelcs that swell the rivers
sway ’
With hyacinth set moving by the rain
That snlashed the faded scrubland with a
stain
Of vivid green. And, through the humid
day,
The steam arises of the leaves’ decay
To tell of Summer’s glory on the wane.
For she has served her purvose, and the year
Puts her aside. So statelily she goes
That none would guess what passionate tears
she shed
To find her charm grown colorless and sere.
November led her from a sapling close ,
Avril will find the splendid Summer dead!
Nina Murdoch.
And then there were three. A. Gore-Jones
admirably develops an interesting idea, lack-
ing, however, a fit clothing of fine imagery.
“Windy steeds” unfortunately suggests
“winded steeds.”
The haggard witch is here with wild green
eyes,
And wan face swept by toosing, tawny hair,
A ragged mist through which her limbs show
bare;
As mounted on her windy steeds she flies
Across the hills; but though around her rise
A rich fecundity beyond compare,
Who knows what warrant yet her moods de-
clare !
The-air is troublous, stirred with stormy
sighs.
Turbulent March! Mach year young Autumn
lays
Upon your altar all her early store,
And eager eyed awaits her due reward,
The purpled grape, the slowly ripening
maize.
Will you fruition bring, or on them pour
The hail’s white whips, the lightning’s flam-
ing sword?
A. Goke-Jones.
And then there were two. Each of these son-
nets is of high poetic quality, and each-gains
its effects by the use of suggestion rather
than by the more prosaic method of direct
statement. In each March is implied with-
out being named. Each has faults. Helen
Power’s “The beneficent rising” needs an
effort to scan, and the quickening of the
soeed of the line, that would allow this lib-
erty, is not called for by the sense. “The
solemn rising of the harvest moon,” perhaps.
Mary A. K. Robb’s “gold grain’s store” is
not obnoxious, since it is meant to retard a
line expressive of slowness; but her
“Autumn’s heart a-throb upon the strings”
is too strained an image.
The prize goes to Mary A. K. Robb, 21
Prospect Hill-road, Camberwell, Victoria,
because her sonnet suggests an Australian
landscape, whereas Helen Power’s, through
no fault of her own, suggests a Tasmanian
and an English landscape. The latter son-
neteer writes:—
I am sending a sonnet for the March competition,
but without much anticipation of its being favorably
considered since I know of your rigid rule as to
local coloring.”
Nevertheless I must, in justification of my little
sonnet, remind you that I live in Tasmania, not in
Australia, and that the features of the landscape
therein mentioned are all visible from the window
where the poem was written. Nothing could be
much less like an Australian autumn than the one
we know here, especially in the south of the island,
and m a place like this, thickly planted with Eng-
lish trees.
Tarnished, the first rich emerald of the year,
ISut gaudier blossoms than the Muring can
show
Make bright the borders, while the orchards
gloio
With wealth of hue in many a ruddy sphere,
lhe world keeps silence, lest it fail to hear
lhe long-drawn sigh that stirs the sentinel
row
Of poplar trees, when, wistfully and slow,
Their first leaf falling tells the end is near.
Dreams sweep the heart, like shadowy clouds
at noon
*lhat float across a field of ripened grain —
Much dreams as come to him who, lonely,
sees
The beneficent rising of the harvest moon,
And hears the undercurrent of earth’s pain
In the hushed whispers of the waiting trees.
Helen Powee.
And then there was one
BY MARY A. K. ROBB.
Soon Summer’s symphony will be no more:
1 was heralded, by bursts of melody—
A sweet-voiced orchestra, unbatoned, free:
And, softer notes than these, that skyward
soar —
The glad, slow whisper through the gold
gram’s store:
The fretting of the stillness by a bee:
A twitter from a cradle in a tree:
And creeping waves caressing close the shore.
Methinks I catch a mellow, pulsing tone
Of swift, dark waters slipping, far away —
A :natter of slow drops from rain-drenched
things:
iJ l J ear a m ntter from wide spaces lone
Whence ghostly winds are sped, that vagrant
stray—
’Tis Autumn’s heart athrob upon the strings
Entries for the sonnet on our April close,
addressed to this page, on May 4.
Purple Mists, and How to Write
Them
The chief market for fiction in this coun-
mu I s ~ the subscription libraries.
-Lne bulk or the subscribers are women, and
women rarely read anything but fiction or
chronicles of scandal that masquerade sol-
emnly under the guise of historical me-
moires. \\ ith such a demand comes
the opportunity for the writers of feminine
of which Gertrude Page and F. E
Milis Young are the chief wholesalers.
Whenever a novel by either of these writers
is announced the sagacious managers of the
principal subscription libraries in this city
order hundreds of copies. Now, are there
any 1 /'! lst i raliari girls Wl ' it; ing fiction who
wouldn t like to have their novels ordered
on sight by the hundred copies for every
subscription library throughout the Empire?
AH you have to do is to write novels of
the Mills Young style. The wonder is that
you haven’t done it. There is no secret
about the Mills Young Method: the trick is
easy to any average writer who has no high,
foolish ideals of literature. Mills Young has
worked it briUiantiy and successfully for
bouth Africa. Why don’t our local Mills
Youngs apply her technique to Australia?
l\ot tor local consumption, for our women
library subscribers don’t want to read about
their own country; but there are all the
other fiction readers yearning to read about
any country but their own. One doubts
whether Mills Young has any considerable
sale m South Africa. Her troubles!
j*
Let us analyse the latest Mills Young—
I urple Mists (Lane, per Dymock’s
Library), and deduce the rules. Introduce
the Gn-l and the Man in the first line.
John Shaw first saw Euretta against the
flame-colored background of the sunset.”
John Shaw... .Euretta: the man and the
girl. Now you know what it’s all going to
be about. Add three lines about the sunset,
carefully keeping it in its place as a back-
cloth for Euretta. Curious name....easy
to remember... .suggests something exotic.
You’re right. “She was elemental.” All
women, even you, gentle reader, like to think
you’re elemental. Well, you can be Euretta.
“He saw the girl coming towards him over
the veld” (local color —in your Australian
version, it will be “boundless plain”; but
don’t linger over a detailed description: get
oii to the man and the girl) *“with fire be-
hind her and the wind in her streaming
hair....In her vivid youth she suggested to
him Life.” And when the man speaks, “his
voice, though harsh in tone, was cultured
and not ill-pleasing.” “ r l 1 'hen his glance
travelled rapidly to her left hand, which,
bare and unringed, hung looselv at her side.”
It’s all right: it’s not going to be a problem
novel. Room for more Euretta: “the small
head poised defiantly on the buoyant young
shoulders. Euretta was 21 and she pos-
sessed a figure as perfect as Aphrodite’s own
....He looked her over carefully... .This
man, for some unknown reason, influenced
her as no other man had done. In a sense
his mind dominated hers.” There, we' knew
it, he’s going to fall in love with her!
Next morning (next chapter) she had
been bathing, and he saw her, himself un-
seen, drying her long, black hair in the sun-
light.. Space' here for a slab of luscious
description: “She lay at her superb length
on the veld in the simplest attire, just a
white Turkish wrapper.... Her pretty feet
were naked, and the lovely, rounded arms
were bare, almost to the shoulders.... Shaw
stood for a while without moving a muscle,
and surveyed the picture. He had never
seen a more perfectly beautiful woman’s
form, even in a painting.”
How discreetly the thing is done! Had
he come earlier he would have seen her
naked —and that, for Mills Young’s clien-
tele, would have spoiled it all. And when
(chanter three) he says good-bye, “he held
her hand and looked straight into her eyes
with a steady, searching look.” He will
come hack, you may be sure. And when he
does “this woman with the figure of a god-
dess, and the dreamv, beautiful eyes, made
him tremble by her very nearness.... She
was delicious, this shy. wild, primitive young
thing, who was so nrtlesslv seductive, and so
unconsciously tantalising.” Ha« your young
man ever called you a shv. wild, primitive
young thing? And how delicious if he did !
Well, you can fancy that you're Euretta.
That’s what you nay your subscription to
the library for, anyway.
But it’s not all love-making, else there
wouldn’t be a novel. Action, please! He
marries her, and she in a blouse and skirt,
clean, of course, but hardly smart. But she
doesn’t love him: the woman in her has not
yet been awakened. For many chapters you
think it is a marriage in name only, so
discreetly does Mills Young keep you out-
side the bedroom door. Then, with a deli-
cious gasp, you hear of the coming baby.
You would never have suspected it. The
Purple Mists can be read by the nicest
people. And all the time “within her slum-
bered the possibility of a great' passion”
(There, you knew it!), “but the restriction
of her life had made her a prude.” Why,
you, yourself, have the slumbering possibility
of a great passion !
Then he takes her to Cape Town, where
he is a surgeon. And this primitive girl
from the veld at once becomes the best-
dressed woman in Cape Town. You see, she
has all the. talents. And when she looks
slightly fatigued, “the weariness enhanced
instead of lessening her charm.” Fortunate
one of her sex! Herein comes a passing
mention of the ‘‘purely physical” in their
relationship, but it is done with so delicate
a touch that no woman could take offence.
Add a paragraph of what the husband
thought the first time he saw her in evening
dress—this is essential. Then enter the
lover. “His type was Bvronic.” It always
is ; and it always has a “beautifully chiselled
mouth.”' But when lie stared at her. “she
inclined her heed ever so si : ah fly. and passed
hv.” But Mills Young bos deceived us.
This is merely a trifler. The real lover
enters.
Complications. Euretta leaves her home.
The lover pursues. Shaw had omitted to tell
his wife that he loves her. and she had over-
looked mentioning the fact that in three
months’ time they were going to have a
baby. But if either had spoken, what would
have happened to the novel? Mills Young
knows better. And Euretta is not a bad
woman. Circumstances compel her to go
with the lover, and he promises that she shall
be merely his housekeeper. Then for a
dramatic “curtain.” The baby is born —
with a crookpd some! And what more
natural than that Euretta should write to
her husband, who is the best surgeon in
South Africa, to come and cure their child.
And then what more satisfactory than that
Shaw should forgive his wife, and that “She
crept closer within his embrace and hid her
weeping face upon his breast”? For she
was “just a weak, heart-broken woman,”
and this was the first time that he had under-
stood her!
That’s all. But the title? Must have a
vague, tremulous title. “The Purple Mists?”
That’s it. But what has all this to do with
purple mists? Candidly, nothing. _ Let’s
write a paragraph at the end, in which the
lover is seen walking swiftly away “into
the purple mists,” and the thing’s done.
Now, all you women-writers of Australia,
what’s to prevent you from writing an Aus-
tralian Purple Mist? The chief caution
to beginners is the necessity to shut out real
life. Life is all right enough in life, but for
fiction suitable to woman readers life is
too shocking. What is wanted is a senti-
mental view of people. • Learn to look at
everything through the fiction reader’s eyes.
She doesn’t want facts: she has enough
washing-up to do in her own life: she goes
to her Purple Mists to get purple mists,
the more misty and the more purple the
better. Make your heroine the most beauti-
ful woman in Australia ; make her also a
shy, wild, primitive thing. Make your hero
the sort of being that you would like your
Bill to be, strong, stern, powerful, virile.
Give them the sort of love-affair that you
hope to have yourself some day. Marry
them, but not with orange-blossoms or the
Wedding March; and then bring about The
Misunderstanding that will wreck their
happiness for 17 chapters. The only way to
do this and retain your reader’s approbation
is to introduce the verbal misunderstanding.
This is the sort that happens only in novels
or on the stage. It consists of husband and
wife saying things that the other partner
always takes in the wrong way. It can be
cleverly « kept up for many chapters. In
real life, of course, if people love each other,
it matters not in the least what they say.
Love is a thing independent of verbal
quibbles. There is no divorce on record
which has been brought about by a verbal
misunderstanding between partners who
love each other. There must be a deeper
disagreement before a marriage is a failure.
But if you gave your hero and heroine that
fundamental incompatibility of tempera-
ments there would be no way in which you
could bring them together for your neces-
sary happy ending. So stick to the things
they say to each other, word them so that
they carry a double meaning to the hearer,
and make the hearer take the wrong mean-
ing.
Then introduce the Other Man. But it
is necessary, to. keep your reader’s sym-
pathy for the wife, to allow her to become
jealous of her husband. Of course, to
keep your reader’s sympathy for the hus-
band, he must be innocent too. The only
way for you to arrange things is for the
wife to be “too proud” to ask her husband
about the Other Woman, and thus to allow
him to explain the innocent facts, Other-
wise there would be no novel.
Then, in the last chapter, bring the inno-
cent husband and the more-sinned-against-
than-sinning wife together; and the inevit-
able happens. The husband doesn’t explain
about the fluffy-haired widow; the wife
doesn’t explain about the other man; he
just catches her in his strong arms and she
just lays her head on his stalwart shoulder.
and_ all is forgiven and everything is exactly
as if this terrible smash-up had never hap-
pened. If you like, you can mention that
they are going to begin again. And if you
produce a baby at this moment, or discreetly
hint at the possibility of a baby, the reader
closes the book with a happy sigh, and rushes
straight off to the librarian to ask for
another Purple Mist. And the librarian
promptly produces half a dozen just as sat-
isfying, just as misty, just as purply.
•
It is all the late Edward’s fault: if he
hadn’t died E. Coqngeau wouldn’t have
“essayed to mark the date of his decease by
writing a few lines in commemoration of
the event,” and “from that time forward ”
she wouldn’t have felt a desire to express
her thoughts in verse, “with the hope that
Queenslanders, no less than others, may see
beauty in everything God has made.” Well.
God made her, and she made this stanza in
the poem entitled “Le Roi Est Mort”:—
O Angels , waft him home!
0 Lord of Life and Death,
Thy will he done!
The King is dead!
And yet , he lives again! his son doth
Him succeed!
God hless his reign!
and we hope that Queenslanders, no less
than others, may see beauty in that. But
Stella Australis, by E. Coungeau (Gordon
and Gotch, Brisbane) isn’t all so horrible as
this early sample. True, she can actually
write acrostics upon the loss of the Titanic
and other subjects, and she had not refrained
from an “In Memoriam” on Captain Scott:
but, here and there, she writes pleasantlv of
pleasant things, without, of course, any need
to write at all. Her “Prose Fragments”
should be put through the crushing machine.
They are much too large and lumpy.


Udjyeagjtofd&asJiije
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for ANSONIA CLOCKS.
The King Ansonia, Black Wal-
nut Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
24in.; Dial, 6in. With Alarm, 20/-
Without Alarm .... • 18/6
The Windsor Ansonia, Black
Walnut Eight-Day Clock, Silvered
Cupids, Plate Glass Mirrors, Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
21iin.; Dial, sin 23/-
Octagon Drop, Rosewood,
Gilt, Eight-Day, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 21in.; Dial, lOin. .. 21/-
The Vienna Ansonia, Black Enamelled Iron
Clock, Eight-Day time, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong, Sin. Dial. Height, lOjin.; Width, 15Jin. 31/-
The Norte Ansonia, Marble Clock,
Eight-Day time, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Dial, sin 75/-
II 12
4;
6 &
The Bright Ansonia, Fancy Gilt
Clock, One-Day Time. Height 6iin.;
Porcelain Dial, 2in.... 10/-
c ',1 s ) a
Am
ms
The Berlin Enamelled Iron
Ansonia Eight-Day Clock. Half-
hour Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
9^in.; Width, lljin. ; Dial, sin. 24/-
The Dover Ansonja, Enamelled
Iron Eight-Day Clock; Half-bour
Strike; Cathedral Gong. Height,
lOiin.; Width, 9iin.; Dial SJH.
20/-
ANSONIA CLOCKS set a
standard of accuracy the
world over.
Only the best material and
the highest skilled labor are
employed, and the finish of
every clock is faultless.
The Assortment of Marble,
Bronze, Wood, Nickel and
Enamelled Iron Ansonia
Clocks offered at the New
Palace Emporium is greater
than that shown at any other
Establishment. Write for
Illustrated Price List, post
free on application.
The Elf Ansonia, Gilt Clock,
Eight-Day Time, Height, 7fin.,
2in. Dial 20/-
We are Family Drapers,
Manufacturing Jewellers,
Complete House Furnishers
and Universal Providers, and
our immense stock of the
World’s Choicest Commodi-
ties offers attractions not to
be found elsewhere. Con-
sult our Illustrated Depart-
mental Price Lists, and reap
the full measure of economy
only to be found in
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The Brook Ansonia, Fancy
Gilt Clock, One-Day Time. Height,
6fin.; 2in. Porcelain Dial, 10/-
C 3
The Unique Ansonia, Black
Enamelled Iron Clock, Eight-Day
Time, Half-hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong, sin. Dial. Height, l(Hin. ;
Width, 24/-
The Barco Eight-Day
Ansonia, Marble Clock, Half-
hour Strike. Height, 12iin..;
Width, 9in.; Dial, 5in... 42/-
>£j
The Andes Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike.
Height, 22in.; Dial, 6in 11/6
The Parisian Ansonia,
Black Walnut, Eight-Day Clock,
Half-hour Cathedral Gong Strike.
Height, 23in. ; Dial, 6in. 18/-
The Triumph Ansonia, Black Wal
nut, Plate Glass Mirrors, Silver Cupids,
Eight-Day, Half-Hour Strike, Cathedral
Gong. Height, 24iin..; Dial,, 6in. 27/-
The Venice Ansonia, Eight-Day Iron Clock, Half-hour
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height, lOJin. ; Width, 16jin; Dial,
siin. With Visible Escapement 35/-
The Beaver Ansonia, Black Walnut
Eight-Day Clock, Half-hour Strike, Cathe-
dral Gong. Height, 22jin.; dial, 6in.
’Cr-^&sk'
The Chopin, Eight-Day Marble Clock, Half-Hour
•Jin.; Width, lfijin.; Dial, Sin
Strike, Cathedral Gong. Height,
/- 5O-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


wcmsiwi
m- &
.
V
&
i
mb-
■*>
f
ws
yf
• ■ •« ••-■'. ...'>» <•**■
,W'
20 GAUGE, MODEL 1912
Hammerless
Repeating Shotgun
If you have ever used a light gun in
hunting, you will at once appreciate the
advantages of the Model 1912 Hammer-
less Repeating Shotgun. This new
Winchester weighs only 5 H pounds—
about the weight of a .22 caliber rifle —
yet it is the strongest repeating shotgun
on the market, because, unlike others, its
metal parts throughout are made of
Nickel Steel. This lightness and strength
are combined with great beauty of out-
line and perfection of balance and finish.
sts action is positive and works with, an
ease and smoothness not found in
other guns. It can be taken apart
and put together quickly and easily,
\ and in strong and accurate shoot-
\ ing qualities is fully up to the
high Winchester standard.
Go to a dealer and ask him
to show you one of them.
Always use Winchester
ammunition in Win-
chester £///;.> as they are
tnuJe for each other .
ITS SO
EASY
Here’s the Quickest Way
to Excavate Dams, etc.
|J OT only the quickest, but the
*■ easiest, most sensible method
of making Drains, Irrigation
Channels, and all such jobs. Picks,
shovels and heavy labor cut right
out. With a Scoop the horse is
hitched in and off you go.
A McPI-IERSON SCOOP fills
easily in virgin or ploughed soil,
because bowl is made of hardened
Steel, same width back and front,
with cutting edge well ground.
Don’t Push a Saw
all Your Life!
It’s not worth it; besides this Saw
Bench, is a splendid little invest-
ment. It costs only £l2 10s., aiul,
if you’ve sawing to do, it’s going
to pay for itself quickly. The
McPherson Saw Bench is a fine,
sturdy, up-to-date machine. Has
Travelling Table that won’t shrink
or tilt. Special Bow to prevent
accidents. Special Bracings to
prevent bench getting rickety.
Price includes one Saw.
Beautifully balanced easv on
horse and user. Fitted with ‘Stout
oteel Bail with easy working
Swivel Steel Runners and Detach-
able Handle. Sold at the follow-
ing Low Prices:—
No. Capacity.
3 3 cubic feet
2 5 cubic feet
1 7 cubic feet
0 i 0 cubic feet
Weight. Price.
80 ib. 32/6
95 lb. 35/ =
105 Ib. 37/6
1331 b. 80/ =
Farm Surveying 1 is
now Accurate,
Easy and Cheap.
Even if the expert, with his expensive
instrument, costs too much, there’s no
reason nowadays for riskv guesswork
when laving oi*t drains, levelling, locating
dams,- getting angles, setting fences etc
THE STARRETT LEVEL No Toi’ I
plies a long-felt want to men on the land.
Beautifully made by the world-famous
otarretts, Guaranteed Accurate, .and com-
plete with extension legs and sight tube,
with cross wires: 40/- Instructions
with every instrument.
MS-PhersonS)
Proprietary Ltd. "■“"'T
Tool Merchants,
554=66 and 582=88 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE.
Don't hesitate—
get a bicycle built of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
You will never liave cause to regret it. It
may cost you a little more at first than a
pattern machine, but it will prove the
cheapest in the end.
You cannot afford to buy a cheap “pattern” machine—
you will be continually “paying out for repairs, etc.,
and then have to “scrap” it, whereas with one built of
Genuine B.S.A. Fittings you will always have easy and
pleasant cycling, and your machine will fetch a good
price should you wish to dispose of it.
REMEMBER—ALL B.S.A. PARTS
PERFECTLY INTERCHANGEABLE.
Write for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS, MELBOURNE.
LOOK FOR
THIS MARK
WHEN YOU
BUY A
BICYCLE.
fflADEiuin
B.S.A,
B.S.A.
SPARE
PARTS
OBTAINABLE
EVERY-
WHERE
IN
AUSTRALIA.
Ride a Bicycle
Built of Genuine
BSA
Fittings
Cheapest
in the end
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Dunlop Tyres As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLE3. £l2 10s. Write ior Price List, post' free.
ANTHONY HORPCRN <& SONS LTD.
j
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
•lust wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you'll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane,
Kriischen
7 Salts N i
Now sold by Chemists throughout tne commonwealth. I
Wholesale importers:
H. &W. GREAR, 287, Jlarenei Street, SYDNEY I
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified * steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
light. A very accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. , CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth)
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
School Teachers Who Suffer from
Insomnia and Nervous Breakdown.
The following is a testimony to the nerve-restoring powers of
Clements Tonic. One of the most brain-racking of duties is that of
public-school teaching—correctly training “the young idea how to
shoot,” making pupils perfect by examination time —these great de-
partmental worries make nervous breakdown and insomnia common
ailments amongst the rank and file of public-school teachers. This
letter is from a lady who has been a brilliant example of her profes-
sion, having held the following high appointments in the Educational
Department of New South Wales
First Assistant Fort Street Model School for Girls.
Mistress, East St. Leonards School.
Assistant Mistress, Cleveland Street Public School.
Mistress, West Redfern Public School.
This testimony must appeal with commanding force to each mem-
ber of the Educational Department, showing what a nerve-soothing,
insomnia-killing, and health-restoring medicine they have in Clements
Tonic. All they need do is to try and persevere with it. The rest
and health_are certain. Miss CARDWELL writes from her residence,
“Coree.” 45 Booth Street, Annandale, 27/8/T3, thus: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I have great pleasure in giving my testimony to the benefits derived
from Clements Tonic as a builder up when in a run-down condition.
“When teaching in the State Schools of New South Wales, I many
times resorted to its use, taking one to three bottles in course.
“The ever-constant strain on the nerves of a Public School Teacher
soon brings on a low state of the whole system. In my case it was over-
strain in teaching, and mental worry through family bereavements. I had
been taking prescribed medicines, but seeing Clements Tonic advertised, I
tried one small bottle, and feeling so much benefit from its use, got the
larger size. It was such a restorative that, when I felt the least run-down,
I at once sent for Clements Tonic, and it never failed me. No household
should be without it, or fail to use it in any case of over-strain, for I feel
sure it will have the desired effect.”
I am, Sirs, gratefully yours,
A. M. CARDWELL,
CLEMENTS TONIC MAKES INSOMNIA A THING OF THE PAST.


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair failure is due to starved roots and cells.
Ail the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to ihe heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping haira
cal! for
Is an adequate food— a real nutriment.
ROWLAND’b MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural haw-health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Che?nists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
A
. Packed I ree. All chargees Prepaid to youtf
Port direct from our Factory. Highest-
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry Ftyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
I Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
I Flyer or Brook's Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyros and accessories half usual prices.
AGENTS
wanted in each district. * Write
at once, using, sufficient postage.
Si e ® Art 'Catalogue and out
special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Deut. a 282 LIVERPOOL.
AG]
E N T for MEAD
T U ‘ C0LE > Book Arcade, Melbourne.
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS
PAGES FOR EVERY WOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand uo woman in
city or country should miss.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
So
U -
by using your own Letter
t’aper, Invoices, etc., with this
,Copying book. You.simnly in-
sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of your having
laiien a copy ; no perforated edge,
hook N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
01 4 ?° size Bby 5, price 3/9; or Book
-VS.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price o /-
post free, cash with order. Special Daintv Octavo
Rook, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ini: Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped. addressed envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENCLAND
a
The lasting and world-wide
popularity of Eley Cartridges
offers the best possible proof of
their satisfactory quality.
Eley Cartridges contain the Standard
Loads of powder and shot, as marked on
boxes. Shooters should beware of all
cartridges the loads of which
are not specified on boxes.
Always Reliable
Mgs
Ui
m
H
m
m
Elcy
‘Fourten’
Gas tight
Cartridge,
load e d
with Eley
Smokeless
powder (
Sold by
Elcy ‘Pluto'
A Buff Cartridge
loaded with Eley
(33gr) Smokeless
Powder and
1A oz. of shot.
s
SIS
SH
SBSIHSi
Sfl
â
Eley
Eourlong
A2iin.lndian
Red Gastight
Cartridge,
loaded with
Eley (33 gr.)
Smokeless
Powder and
No. 6 or
smaller shot
all Gumnakers and. Ammunition Dealeis.
A rent: ALBERT ADAMS
420, GEORGE .STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
Wholesale only:
LONDON
HE Best Stories written by Australian
A Writers appear in The Lone Hand
Magazine. Price. Cd. monthly.
Bonnington’
Jubes
For the VOICE * *
THROAT LUNGS
Possess many of the unique and valuable curative properties of Bonnington’s Irish Moss.
1 bey afford immediate relief in case of Sore or Relaxed Throat, Loss of Voice, Huskiness,
Spasmodic Cough, Bronchial Trouble etc. Whilst soothing and antiseptic in their action,
tnese Jubes are entirely free from all poisonous or other harmful substances.
rVp:
A?/.
a
8P
vS*
A PLEASANT AND EFFECTIVE COUCH PASTILLE
SUITABLE FOR BOTH ADULTS AND CHILDREN
BONNINGTON’S JUBES are highly recom-
mended for use by Public Speakers and
Singers. The Travelling Public will also find
them the best and most convenient Throat
Pastille. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Price, 1/3 per tin
If not obtainable locally, send price in
stamps to
Bonnington & Co., Ltd.
17i) HARRIS STREET - - SYDNEY
DRUNKENNESS Cured
Any lady can cure the most violent drunkard—secretly— at home. GOLDEN SPECIFIC has no
odor or taste, and can be taken by the most delicate person of either sex. It totally eradicates
all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathv to alcohol in a few weeks. Manv cases
are cured in a few days with this treatment. .. .Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPLE and
full particulars. THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2011,94 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Si
.mi
3
%
Every Woman Can Have
A PERFECT
BUST
It matters not if you have been thin and seraggly for years, even if you
never were properly developed your nteasurements can be increased to normal
and your figure nicely rounded out to pleasing, plump proportions. It is
done every' day for others —why hot you?
Mrs. B. Driesden wrote from Armidale, 25th May, 1913:
“I do not require any more of I>r. Falliere’s Flesh-Food,
as I am developed as much as I desire. My measurements
have increased satisfactorily, and my health has improved
wonderfully. 1 will tell my friends of your treatment, and
will always recommend it, and I wish to thank you for your
kindness and prompt attention to my wants.”
Many oases gain as much as five pounds a week, and improvements up to as
have been made in bust measurements. Send or call for full particulars at once,
and recommend this wonderful method. Guarantee given in every case accepted.
much as ten inches
Thousands endorse
SEND US a 2d.
STAMP and
LET US SEND
YOU A FREE
BOOK & FREE
SAMPLE OF
‘FLESH=FOOD’
GET THEIR TESTIMONIALS.
We suggest that all lady readers who
see this article will do well to investigate
the truth of these assertions. Send, two
penny stamps, and we will post you full
particulars and a FREE SAMPLE
TREATMENT.
We will send you scores of grateful
letters from delighted women and so
much evidence that you must be con-
vinced. Write to-day. If convenient
call for an interview. Lady attendant.
Advice and consultation free.
Hours: 9 to 5 daily.
FALLIERE FLESH-FOOD CO.,
1103 ASH STREET. SYDNEY.
Treatment by Post.
So carefully have
we arranged our
correspondence de-
partment that a
patient at any
point, no matter
how distant, can
receive the same
careful considera-
tion as though she
were able to visit
us every week.
ISI9J
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
p NTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
‘—'have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
solete.
That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used by the world’s leading canners. If you are using cans
ior packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SOLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamers will seal can tops on
bodies l-]in. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible ch anges is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans.- The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatically conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON. NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
' SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any • form absolutely abandon the
habit for good.’ It not only destroys the crav-
ing, the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FREE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
—“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q'land)
writes: “I was a heavy smoker for 65 years,
but attei taking your treatment for U days I
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dent. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2.
P\GES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance tiiat is not
only COMFORTABLE 10 WEAR, but one
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUBHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY.
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women <fc children,
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO. f
349 Collins.at., Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should , read the British Austra-
lasian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Wooing.
"He’s been giving me black eyes for the past three
weeks.” “What has he been doing- that for?” “Be-
cause I don’t love him any more.”
—Sydney police-court report.
He gave me gifts ; my heart was cold,
He thought that he might fight his way
Into my heart with wooing bold ;
He gave me black eyes ev’ry day.
I loved him not for all the proof
He showed me in his own sweet way
Of how he loved ; I held aloof
In spite of black eyes ev’ry day.
Now in his cell my lover lies,
And, in my feeble woman’s way,
I think of him —and wipe red eves.
(He gave me black ones ev’ry day.)
N.s.w.
EVELYN NOCTABOUT.
The Forbidden Fruit.
Wanted a first-class orchard manager, married,
without children, or one child preferred. Must be
thoroughly competent in all departments.
Wanted a first-class orchard hand, married, with
children preferred. Must be thoroughly capable.
—Tasmanian advertisemen ts.
This is the law of supply and demand to
which all parents bow,
The married counle who take a job must
without encumbrance be ;
I*tit he who farms on shares such land as
grazes the butter cow
May have a full quiver of twenty-one, and
is scorned with two or three. •
For children on stations loaf and eat, >and
are black on the squatter’s list.
They are wealth to the orchard worker, but
a drug to the orchardist.
The orchard manager bloke may not, for
appearance sake, his son
Let work in the rows of leafless trees or
pick in the apple time,
But the orchard hand who, by love or luck
has a baker’s dozen won
May see them gathering scarlet fruit in the
autumn dew and rime—-
May see them welcomed while yet for them
there is not an award,
Welcome to earth and capital—while there is
no Wages Board.
The anxious unborn who press for life at the
painful gates of birth,
Who clamor for flesh, to the man and wife,
for the world in its joy and pain,
Are hereby advised to select a pa who’ll give
them a chance on earth,
Whose vocation will find them a help, and
whose labor will prove them a gain.
An orchard hand or a dairyman should be
first on the Fathers’ list,
And last shall be station managers—and the
One-Child orchardist.
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEOFORD.
A Strike of Loyalists.
n the lung of England signed the Bill and force
was used to coerce the Ulster loyalists, he for one
would never again sing the National Anthem. How
could he sing God Save the King” if his Majesty
gave his sanction to such an iniquitous measure?
(.iriear, near.)
Speaker at a Melbourne Orange meeting.
Never again ! Though he starve and die
hor the lack of praise we gave him.
Never again! Though he yearn and sigh
hor the strains of the old “Gor’ Save
Im.”
If a king will thus transgress our rules
We loyalists shall down our tools.
Wliat is the use of a king to us
VVho is dead against our notions—
Mocking our whims and our foibles thus
■.Tr'r nd - OUr “ lo y al ” Orange motions?
iV hat is the use of our loyalty
It a king won’t think the same as we?
Never again shall we doff the hat
To the strains of anthems royal;
n hen they lift their voices—(mostly flat)
And declare they still are loyal.
And the lack of howls in a minor key
Shall rack his soul with misery.
Not a word of ours shall praise his name,
I or he counts no more our cobber.
And a king who fails to play our game
Ain’t worth a single slobber.
Then let him reign in silence gi’im ;
This lack of praise will madden him.
Never again shall the rafters ring
With a midnight song uproarious,
Asking Heaven to save our king
And to send him great and glorious.
And Heaven, marking well the lapse,
Will cease its patronage, perhaps.
Then let him mope in his castle dim,
A king unsung, ungreeted ;
And yearn in vain for the loyal hymn
To which he once was treated.
And let him weep and cry in vain:
“Let’s hear ‘Gor’ Save’ just once again!”
Never again ! Though he plead with sobs
And on his knees doth sue us !
For kings who want to hold their jobs
Must be respectful to us.
If they ignore our little ways
Henceforth shall we withhold all praise.
Upon his throne in London toion
A king sat up and wondered.
The loyal howls he longed to drown
No more around him thundered.
“Nay, can it he we are so hlest?
Peace! Peace at last! Noiv may we rest A”
VICTORIA.
DEN.


aron
Cigarettes
Every day more smokers are discovering in SARONY the IDEAL/
Cigarette. The Sarony is the result of a lifetime of cigarette-mak-
ing experience, and is recognised as the “Standard of luxury in
smoking.” Mild and distinctive in flavor. Turkish or Virginia.
All leading Tobacconists.
•
MaoOfactOred by NICOLAS SARONY & CO.,
New Bond Street, LONDON, W.
ã
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
Lister-Bruston
Automatic
Electric
Lighting
Plant
Yir.'
MM
FOR LIGHTING IN PRIVATE
RESIDENCES, HOTELS, SHOPS,
PUBLIC HALLS, etc.
This plant (as illustrated, complete)
generates electricity automatically. The
Engine and Dynamo start themselves as
soon as the lights are switched on. The
Lamps are lit direct from the Dynamo,
obviating a large and costly storage bat-
tery. Current is available for lighting at
any time.
The Plant is self-
contained, not fixed
to the floor, and
thus, as a tenant’s
fixture, may be
moved from place
to place. It is low
in cost, and deliv-
er e d practically
ready for connect-
ing; up to the house
wiring.
AGENTS: N.S.W. —W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
ä
A SPLENDID MOUSTACHE PRODUCER.
Don’t despair if your moustache is poor and thin —you can develop a
splendid moustache by using
CAPILLARINE.
Hundreds of men have proved the efficacy of this splendid preparation.
30 years on the market has proved its merit. It never fails—it is safe,
sure and reliable. It does not injure the skin —it is not detectable in use.
SEND FOR A JAR 10/G JAR, Post Free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 eaeh, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEIM
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
*A
*
C
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully refreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FIRST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
\
\
\
\
\
\\
\\v\
\
\
OILSKIN.
The Ideal Waterproof for MOTORING,
RIDING, DRIVING, WALKING, etc.
Note the large, overlapping sheath and
side buttons, which give this coat an
apron front, and absolutely prevent
any water from penetrating.
Ask your Storekeeper to
show you a “WATERSHED.”
Made in two weights:—
“D u go n g-Watershed,” light
weight, for general use... . 32/6
“Rainbow-Watershed,” stout
make, for rough wear... ... 25/-
We shall be pleased to forward a
copy of our new, Illustrated List, post
free on request.
If unable to obtain your “Watershed”
locally, send order direct to us.
We pay carriage.
PERDRIAU
RUBBER
CO. LTD.
270 George Street. SYDNEY
Also
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE
BRISBANE.
TURN YOUR BACK
IF YOU DO YOUR POLISHING with
SHI-NOLEUM—you will find that you
can TURN YOUR BACK on HARD WORK
It is so easy to give your Linoleums
and Furniture that fine, bright appear-
ance that your work is FINISHED
before you seemed to have begun it.
tSTDO NOT ACCEPT AN IMITATION 1
SJuMxdjiMltrL
a
The Chinese use this Symbol
to express Completeness
The perfect balance —the unbroken circle —these denote unity.... The symbol stands
for something: that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
Or, in other words, the
“AJAX” FORGINC MACHINE.
This has AUTOMATIC FEED, and WILL MAKE 8 TONS Hin. Rivets,
Trackboits and Dogspikes in a day of 8 hours.
This Machine cuts the stock from the bar, heads and finishes the rivet and
ejects it into the pan—ONE RIVET FOR EVERY REVOLUTION, 8 tons
per day. The rivets are all made at the same heat. All the operator does is
to start the 30-foot bars from the furnace into the feeding rolls. THINK what
this speed, accuracy and economy of production means on an item where compe-
tition is so keen.
The bed plate, continuous crank-shaft housings, phosphor bronze
bushings, perfect lubrication and automatic die relief are all features which
make for long service and protect the machine against damage.
Perhaps you have a forging problem that you would like worked out in a
commonsense way. If you have a sample of the forging, just hitch a tag to it,
or, if it is still in the blue-print stage, roll up a print and send it on to us.
COMMUNICATE WITH
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED
(CITY 4143),
Who are Sole Agents, and carry in Stock
ALL CLASSES OF ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS,
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—N0. 1784.
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1914.
I’IUCB OU.
CENSURE MOTION CONDENSED.
We may expect a great deal of manoeuvring and parading during this session to impress the public.—S. M. Herald.
AUSTRALIA: “Impress, be blowed! DE-press!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. Ad., per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-
~f x shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
liiE Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
M anager.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some
care as to methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertisements, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the Editor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, Thu Bulletin,” is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction —be., any picture
which has to be redrawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Cordon and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ift l Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo. B.C.
U.S.A.— Panama-Pacific Neivs Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. IK. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and 1) Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City Neivs Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IK. E. Lenehan, 585
29th Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Ilundolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt.- —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale
agents) to Victoria, West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
I ’i/6 per doz. nett.
Tun Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6g in.
x 11/in.. and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth, New Zea-
land, Fiji, British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet- — otherwise; Boz., Id., Bfoz.
to 10oz., 2\d.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz..
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
fflie^xxlleZz/ri.
THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1914.
THE COMPLETE STRANGER AND
THE COW.
Many years ago—and yet. perhaps, not so
very many years ago, the date being half-
way between the previous and the subsequent
—a man had a very great and rich estate
left to him. There wasn’t even a road on it,
but that sort of thing may happen to any
place. Scotland didn’t own a genuine road
150 years ago. The whole world didn’t
possess a road in the days when Exodus
was cutting its first tooth. All Australia
wasn’t gifted with a road till the other day.
There were no railways on the- new estate,
but that was nothing unusual. No railways
were heard or dreamt of anywhere until
yesterday or thereabouts. The man who
inherited the great, rich estate, in the time
that was half-way between the previous and
the subsequent, was no worse off than any-
body else, and a thousand times better off
than most people, inasmuch as he didn’t need
to pay for the rich area, and so far he hasn’t
required to defend his ownership of it. The
only reason why the place didn’t prosper
immediately was that he went about the
work of development in a curious fashion.
He took round by sea —and it was a very
long and circuitous sea-passage—a Complete
Stranger and a Cow. He marooned them on
the end of the property which was farthest
away from anywhere and anybody. Incident-
ally it was the worst section of the property.
The Cow was very sick on the voyage, and
the Complete Stranger, when he saw the
lonesomeness of the place he was going to,
said that even a fertile province might not
amount to much if it was like Robinson
Crusoe’s island in the matter of isolation.
After a number of years the owner of the
property started to investigate. He wanted
to hear something about development. And
finding that the Complete Stranger and the
Cow, left solitary and deserted on the shore
at the far end of nowhere, hadn’t blazed forth
into wild prosperity, he said that the estate
was a burden, a dead loss and a white
elephant.
* * * *
•That, put into the fewest possible words,
is the story of Australia’s Northern Terri-
tory. The Territory contains the biggest
tableland in the Commonwealth, and the
biggest area of land specially adapted, by cli-
mate, for fresh, raw, sturdy British immi-
grants. But even the freshest British immi-
grant on the tallest tableland doesn’t care
to grow wheat and such-like produce if he
has to cart it 1000 miles to a market, and in
a community which grows more wheat than
it can use the markets for new or extra
wheat are at the deep-sea ports. If the
Territory is left as it is—and the Common-
wealth Government hasn’t built even a yard
of railway in the cool highlands or anywhere
else, so the place is certainly being left as it
is—it will fill up with people when every
decently fertile section of Australia which
is blessed with railway communication has
been occupied, but probably not before. In
view of possible foreign complications it is
impossible to wait so long, and in order to
hurry up events the place requires to get the
same chances that were found necessary in
the case of Bankstown or Cobar or Longreach
or Mildura or Gawler or Kalgoorlie. The
Northern Territory Problem, about which so
much is said and written and blithered, is
in no way different from the Sydney Tele-
graph Problem or the Sydney Evening
News Problem. If there was no road, or
tram-line or railway to their offices, and the
papers couldn’t even be delivered at Strath-
field except by a long sea voyage, they would
probably remain as undeveloped as the pleas-
ant miles of grass in the vicinity of Alice
Springs. Even their literary excellence—
such as it is—wouldn’t prevail against the
isolation.
* * * *
The story of the Northern Territory is
the general story of this great country. Be-
fore railway building started, and the
feeling of lonesomeness was worn off
through one very small city being
connected with another that was per-
haps still smaller, advancement was
quite gradual. It took New South Wales
22 years from the beginning of things to
acquire 11,566 people, yet it had a compul-
sory population which was chained to the
spot and was flogged if it disapproved of the
climate. It took Westralia, also with a com-
pulsory population which was flogged if it
called the country a Problem, 42 years to
accumulate 1172 people. It took S.A. 52
years to become possessed of 14,630 inhabi-
tants. Queensland made its first separate
appearance 52 years after the British Em-
pire started in Australia, and then it had
only 28,056 people. Settlement, while roads
were few and railways were none, was
mostly on the coast and mostly on that part
of the coast which had direct communication
with the outside world. Sydney happened
to be the first official convict (or flogged)
settlement, so it became the end of an offi-
cial marine service from England via the
Cape of Good Hope. This included, in pass-
ing, the ports all the way round from Fre-
mantle. Also Sydney was handy for the
Chilian wheat and flour trade, and was the
natural terminus of the old mail line via
Panama. The coastline from Fremantle
round northerly to Cairns or thereabouts
was neglected because it was dreadfully diffi-
cult to navigate in the days of windjammers.
The loss of Pelsart’s Dutch armada in these
waters was a lamentable advertisement, and
scared navigators badly. The North lagged
behind in consequence. Still it didn’t lag
very far behind. So far as can be guessed
from geological records, it took Sydney and
Melbourne and Adelaide six billion years or
so to get as far advanced as Darwin or
Geraldton or Broome or Normanton are
now. The worst that can be said even of
Darwin, which is about the hottest and most
Chow-infested place in the Territory, is that,
in the procession of six million years or
thereabouts, it is a century later than Syd-
ney and half a century more dilatory than
Melbourne. It seems like undue haste to
call the Territory a problem and a white
elephant on such slender evidence.
* * * *
There has, of late, been a considerable de-
parture of officials from Darwin, the far, lone
end of the estate which the owner attempted
to settle by marooning a Complete Stranger
—generally a Chinaman —and a Cow at the
most remote tail of geography. It is no
great wonder that there is a departure. See-
ing that Australia, with less than two
people to the square mile, isn’t yet driven,
by lack of space, to be an Israelite in the
wilderness, it is impossible to settle an
empty patch by merely sending out officials.
Nobody even thought of settling Bankstown,
which is only a few miles from Sydney, by
despatching there a horse-doctor as Deputy-
Governor, an Inspector of Schools, a Lands
Board, a Protector of Aborigines, an Inspec-
tor of Mines, a Geologist, a High Panjan-
drum, a Pooh Bah, a Chief Medical Officer,
an Inspector of Lighthouses, a Government
Botanist, an Experimental Farm, a dredge,
an interpreter, a Judge, a Marine Board,
and a Very Great Chief Entomologist or
Beetle Investigator or Battler with White
Ants. All the Government did was to build
a railway and let Bankstown, which had
mouldered for 100 years right at the back-
door of Sydney, find itself. The Territory,
which has mouldered no longer than
that at the back-door of Adelaide and
Townsville, wants the same treatment
—no more and no less. Even if two
railways were finished —the one north-
ward from Port Augusta to Darwin, which
is nearly half constructed, and the one west-
ward from Townsville to the Westralian
coast, which is already constructed as far as
Cloncurry—the bill would be nothing remark-
able. The whole thing could be done for
less money than the amount of the loans that
the present N.S.W. Government fools away
in two years on works that seem to yield no
return whatever. The country is easy for
railway building. The increased land values
created by the railways would be almost en-
tirely Government profit. The opening up
of the Territory by a very ordinary line, or
series of lines, is in the same category with
the bridge between Sydney and North Syd-
ney, which is just an ordinary bridge. The
matter has been used as an election cry or
advertisement by politicians till it has come
bo look something enormous, incredible,
boundless, shoreless, sublime, and un-
precedented, and an idea has arisen
that the man who tackles it must
be a giant who has girded up his
loins, and buckled on his armor, and
put on his seven-league boots, and thrown'his
hat into the ring, and drawn his sword, and
cast away the scabbard, and generally re-
solved to perish on the spot. But nothing
of the sort is involved. A grocer
could tackle the work if he was an unimag-
inative grocer and not impressed by bogies.
Some years ago a very similar bogy existed
in France —the famous Humbert swindle.
It was the nearest thing in recent times to
the deep consideration of the Sydney Harbor
bridge and the tremendous responsibility of
the N. Territory. There was a safe which
must not be opened save under extraordinary
and complicated conditions, and these con-
ditions filled the law courts with clamor for
years. Inside the safe was allegedly a gigan-
tic mass of gilt-edged securities, on the
strength of which vast sums were advanced
by credulous capitalists. An impression pre-
vailed that the matter was so tangled that
it would involve centuries of litigation. Then
a cheap, ordinary French magistrate—the
kind of man who would simply build a North
Shore bridge or a Northern Territory rail-
way, instead of spending years in writing
about the subject—ordered the safe to be
opened, just as if he was fining a drunk,
and, as the iron box only contained 2d. and
a hairpin, or something of the sort, the
whole trouble ended.
* * * *
The moral which it is intended to convey
is that the Northern Territory is just a bit
of land. It is better than much of the land
of Australia, because it is cool and elevated
at the high end. which happens to be the
biggest bit of high country in Australia. It
is low and hot on the small coastal section,
but this may happen to any other place where
the coast is flat and tropical. The Territory
is dark at night and light in the day-time,
and it is wet when it rains and dry when it
doesn’t, these also being common and fre-
quent characteristics. There is no problem,
save that the Territory can no more be de-
veloped than any other place by marooning a
Complete. Stranger and a Cow at the far end
of it. All it requires is the some treatment
that the Sydney Government found necessary
in the case of Bankstown and other suburbs.
It has, however, this advantage, that the
railway will run almost entirely through
Government land, so that there will be no
costly resumptions, and the Government will
get practically all the unearned increment.
These facts make the problem much easier
than that of building the first two miles of
the North Shore (Sydney) line from Mil-
son’s Point.
THE VOTER WHO AROUSED
SUSPICION.
It is difficult to take much interest in the
charges of personation and double voting at
the recent N.S.W. State elections. The whole
thing seems shadowy and mixed. To begin
with, there is the fact that, in the early days
of the llolman-McGowen Ministry, a
foolish sunnorter was found to have been
straining the electoral law very considerably
in the llolman-McGowen interest. If the
law had been enforced he might have had a
bad .time, but the matter was brushed aside
as a case of “misguided enthusiasm,” or
something to that effect. An impression arose
then in badly-informed and illiterate quarters
that casual or even sloppy enthusiasm
might be overlooked if it tended to the suc-
cess of the Holman-McGowen combination.
Many politicians in office have also been will-
ing to overlook the enthusiasm of their sup-
porters, and many have done it, but very
few have talked about it. At the recent
State election the first ballot left things
fairly even between the Government and the
Opposition. But there were a dozen elec-
torates in which a second ballot was neces-
sary because, amid a multiplicity of candi-
dates, no one had obtained an absolute
majority. The two leading candiates had
to go to the poll again and fight the thing
out. In certain of these electorates the
various straggling Opposition representatives
had a good majority if their votes were com-
bined, and it was presumed that at the
second ballot these votes would be combined
to a great extent and would go to the lead-
ing candidate. Therefore Liberalism exalted
its tail exceedingly, and said that the battle
was won. It even opened a bottle of cham-
pagne and set fire to a big cigar. Nothing,
it reckoned, save a very remarkable reversal
of public opinion in a remarkably short time
could save the Great Loan Ministry.
* * * *
The reversal, or something, came with
sufficient energy and at a sufficient number
of places to save the Borrowing Govern-
ment and give it a good margin. At
Bingara the total vote increased from
6947 to 7220, an addition of 273 votes.
But the supporters of the selected Govern-
ment candidate increased by 394", so he ad-
vanced easily from second place to first. At
Enmore, the first ballot showed 8955 votes,
of which the leading Opposition candidate got
4458 ; the Government,. or Hard-Borrowing
candidate (who, by the way, is Attorney-
GeneraD, only 4365; and an outsider 129.
At the second ballot an extra 761 votes were
dug out from somewhere, and as practically
all of them went to the Government candi-
date, he became 754 in front instead of 90
behind. At Hurstville, the discovery _of
1226 new voters in the short space of time
between the first and second ballots shifted
the Government or lOU candidate from a
minority of 306 to a majority of 368. At
St. George the total vote grew in the few
days between the first and second ballots
from 9672 to 10.256, and the vote for the
Government candidate from 4366 to 5231, so
that, where he had been in a hopeless-looking
minority of 431, he rose all at once to the
giddy affluence of a majority of 206. At
Willoughby the total vote was 5942 at the
first ballot, and 9509 at the second. The
Liberal vote had been split between Flem-
ing and McMillan on the first occasion,
and, apparently, on the figures, went solidly
for Fleming on the second, for the Flem-
ing vote went up from 2777 to 4601. That
almost exactly accounted for McMillan’s
transferred supporters. But though there
was no superfluous Labor candidate at the
first ballot whose support would pass auto-
matically to the other Labor candidate at the
second, the vote for the representative of the
Deficit Ministry increased by 1103 (from
3805 to 4908) and a blighted Opposition
went home with its tail down and a wild
expression in its eye.
The party which opposes the Borrowing
Government of N.S.W. is a rather clumsy
and inarticulate creature, but what it seems
to be trying to say is this: (1) That, accord-
ing to the experience of other countries, the
vote at the second ballot is generally smaller
than at the first, and some of these increased
votes are so remarkable that they ought to
be dried and stuffed, and put in a museum.
Also Nielsen, the Labor Government’s sup-
porter who gets £4 a day for expenses, might
take them as a show item to the Panama
Exhibition. (2) That an extensive change
of nublic opinion in such a short time is rare,
and its happening shows the Finger of
Providence. (3) That the fact of there
being enough reversal to save the great
Indebted Government (which was in
charge of the election business) from hav-
ing again to depend on a precarious majority
of one—the majority which fell over the
stairway—clearly shows the Entire Hand of
Providence, also Both Feet. (4) That
(supposing it wasn’t a reversal of form) it
is remarkable that the Big Shortage Govern-
ment organisation—generally supposed to be
a pretty good organisation—missed so many
supporters at the first ballot, and the fact
suggests that it isn’t such a very good or-
ganisation after all. At the same time, the
fact that it rounded up so many of its neg-
lectful supporters between the dates of the
first and second ballots shows that it isn’t
such a hopeless organisation as some people
imagine. (5) That it is all a Staggering
Coincidence. That appears to be what the
Opposition is trying to say, or at least it is
understood to gesticulate and flap both hands
to that effect.
* * * *
Certain small, futile complaints have been
made about alleged impersonation and such-
like things, but they appear very useless and
purposeless. Certainly there are possibili-
ties of one sort and another. The elector’s
right, which served as a receipt or passport,
and could only be used once at one election,
by reason of the stamp that was put on it,
has been abolished. Now any man can go
into any polling booth, or anv number of
polling booths, and vote as anybody, or as a
lot of people, provided he isn’t recognised as
a personator and assuming that he gets in
ahead of the individual he is personating.
And if that individual is a chronic abstainer
from voting he may never know that his
vote has been used by some unauthorised
party. In fact, hundreds of him may never
know. The first ballot shows the chronic
absentees whose votes may be borrowed with
impunity, and .1 a few hundreds of these
votes are us. d ai the second ballot there
is very little in .he law to prevent such a
thing. All t iis 'a unfortunate, especially
in the case of :m election at which so many
unusual things happened. A careful inquest
or autopsy is n nut-red impossible. It is
understood that (he Borrowing Government
has put the police, controlled by itself, on
the job to find out whether it —the Borrow-
ing Government —happened to get its ma-
jority, or part thereof, by the devices of
misguided supporters who can’t stand inspec-
tion. But the police force is notoriously
overworked, underpaid and undermanned. It
is notoriously anxious for a rise. There are
probably two constables, or perhaps a bobby
and a half, at Willoughby. If there are two,
and they called on the 9509 electors who pur-
ported to vote at the second ballot —the one
which caused so much surprise—that would
make 4754 J calls apiece, even if everybody
happened to be in when called upon. To
each inhabitant the question would have to
be put whether the vote registered was genu-
ine or bogus. All this investigation being
obviously impossible, it is naturally inferred
that there wasn’t much research, on the
part of the Borrowing Government’s police
force, into the hints that the Borrowing Gov-
ernment’s success might have been due to
“misplaced enthusiasm” on the part of some-
body or another. It is feasible to suggest
the restoration of the old electoral right, but
apart from that the matter seems hardly
worth further investigation. Why struggle
with the intangible, and scuffle with ghosts
in a fog?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cornstalk Stamp Duties.
Sydney and other places had a day of joy
when the Holman Government’s new stamp
duties came into force. The measure was
ruled out twice on objections raised by
Cohen, M.L.A., as being a botched sort of
affair and beyond the “order of leave.” The
man who ruled it out on Cohen’s applica-
tion was Speaker Richard Denis Meagher,
and some of the people who had helped to
put Richard Denis in the chair murmured,
and said it wasn’t the sort of thing they
had expected. The measure got through at
the third time of asking, but the capable and
level-headed Cann was in charge instead ot
the misfortunate Hoyle. There was some
trace of a hitch at the last moment through
the neglect of the Attorney-General to write
out the formal certificate, but the usual use-
ful Cann noticed the omission and had
things put right. So the Act started on the
pleasant Wednesday of last week, when the
sun had risen after a beautiful night or
stars, and the skies were blue, and life seemed


almost worth living despite the high price
of food and the low cost of burial. Mercan-
tile people, who are really the most ignorant
white folk going, fled to the Federal post
offices to buy the new receipt stamp, or the
new stamp that is gummed on to the cheque
—the latter being a bluish contraption with
a pink King looking eastward in the middle.
The Act was in force for a whole day before
a printed copy was available, so people who
had no sense fled in all manner of direc-
tions. The Federal post office considered
the applicants as if they were dead, and
said this was a purely State matter. Then
the public besieged the stationers’ shops, and
howled for stamps or blood. One big
stationery was only saved by the
police from being trodden under the faet
of the stamp-buying multitude. Country
towns telegraphed that their stocks had
given out, and held up a banner with the
strange device, “Stamps or Death.” Things
straightened out.as the day went on; still
on Thursday morning a Bulletin man
tried to buy ss. worth of the new goods at
a big city emporium, and only got Is. worth.
Meanwhile eminent lawyers put ice on their
bulging foreheads and proceeded to advise
their clients as to how they stood. Even the
leading botanists and zoologists of the coun-
try admitted that on some points the Act
was a trifle doubtful, and the curator of
the museum wasn’t absolutely sure. For
instance, the Act says that “receipt given for
or upon the payment of any sum of money
amounting to £2 or upwards” shall carry a
twopenny stamp. That seems to include
every kind of payment. Yet, according to
the S. M. Herald, “the Stamp Commis-
sioner regarded wages as different altogether
from salary, and while receipts for wages
were exempt those for salary must be
stamped.” If the Commissioner has a right
to make this differentiation on his own re-
sponsibility the question arises, what are
“wages” and what is “salary.” Also where
does “screw” come in; likewise “honora-
rium,” “fee,” “refresher,” “stipend,” “dirt
money,” “emolument” or “allowance”?
According to Webster’s dictionary “sal-
ary” is a recompense paid by the
year, half-year, quarter or month, while
“wages” are paid at shorter intervals.
With this view the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica concurs. Another dictionary definition
is that “salary” stands for a higher grade of
work than “wages.” The editor of The
Bulletin collects his money weekly, the
simple reason being that he couldn’t
hang out for a whole month, and as
his employment consists largely in complete
disapprobation of the Holman Government,
it is, presumably, in the view of the Holman
Government, low-grade. Therefore his
weekly receipt will pass unstamped. A wild,
whirling circumstance in the Act is the
charge of 6d. on scrip “entitling any person
to become the proprietor of any share or part
of a share in any company or proposed
company.” It would be difficult for the
law to do otherwise than decide that this is
a tax of 6d. on each share, and when a new
company starts with the shares paid up to
Is. it looks like a rather considerable tax —
in fact, a 50 per cent. tax. A “letter or
power of attorney” for the receipt of any
sum not exceeding £2O is to carry a ss.
stamp, and if the sum to be received is only
10s. or £l, the tax looks considerable. There
are certain exemptions, but they don’t in-
clude wages, so plainly if Bill, laid up with
a broken leg, gives a written order to .Tim
to collect the 15s. which Thomas owes him
for tree-felling, the ss. stamp must be affixed
—or somebody is liable to fall in. There
are other visible points of interest, but these
are the principal ones. Quite a. lot of points
that are not yet visible will probably emerge
when the Act begins to struggle with legal
artificers in the law courts.
♦
The Dark Coast.
Dear Bulletin, —The Australian Mercan-
tile Marine is demanding in a voice whose
thunderous tone is torn between rage and
nervousness when the recommendations of
Commander Brewis in regard to the light-
ing of the coast are to be carried out. It
was intended originally that the control of
the lighthouses should pass from the States
to the Commonwealth in July last. How-
ever, the States were asked by the Cook
crowd to attend to the job till the end of
1913, by which time the CooK-ites, ever
optimistic, hoped to be in a position to know
something about the matter. The first half
of 1914 is well-nigh sped, and nothing worth
talking about has been done. And mean-
while, chiefly owing to the criminal delay
that has occurred in this matter, three first-
class ships have landed on Australian soil.
The first, a Dutch East Indian liner,
stranded on Proudfoot Shoal, at the western
approach to Torres Strait —one of the first
death-traps that should have been publicly
advertised for the benefit of mariners.
Another Dutchman struck, and narrowly
missed becoming a total wreck, on Bramble
Cay, at the eastern approach to Torres
Strait. And next the St. Paul smote
Smith’s Rock, off Cape Moreton, and sank
in five minutes. By the present look of
things these tragedies are but the precursors
of a cloud of others. The States, in antici-
pation of the Commonwealth taking over the
lighthouses, have for some years spent as
little as possible on them. Badly-needed
repairs have been- left undone. Each week
and month the position gets a little worse
from the point of view of the passengers and
crews of the Commonwealth’s Mercantile
Marine. Those responsible ought, by rights,
to be indictable for murder, or at the least
manslaughter, on the transpiration of the
next sea-horror, due to the ill-lighted condi-
tion of the coast. The spectacle of Prime
Minister Cook being hanged at the yard-
arm of a ruined liner, in the presence of a
few hundred sodden corpses, a quantity of
jettisoned cargo, five or six thousand sharks,
and the rest of the appurtenances of a local
wreck would have a most inspiring effect on
dilatory politicians.—Yours., etc., Embit-
tered Mariner.
♦
Proposed Suspension of Law.
“Solomon Malaprop” writes as follows: —
The Melbourne Political Labor Council at its
recent sittings came to some decisions on the Defence
question. Two of them were as follows: —-
“The Defence Act should be so amended as to set
forth clearly that the object of creating a citizen
Defence Force, based on universal military training
and service, is for the purpose of defending the Com-
monwealth against possible foreign aggression, and
therefore under no circumstances should any per-
sons so enrolled be compelled to interfere with
workers engaged in an industrial dispute.
“No State Government should be allowed to raise,
arm or use any force against the workers in the time
of an industrial dispute.”
It may not be a matter of much importance, still
it seems a pity that the proposition wasn’t put into
more definite shape. For if neither the Fed-
eral military force nor any State force (the
police are a State force, so they are in-
cluded) is to be used against the workers during
an industrial dispute, it is plain that the workers
are to be allowed to do as they please, save for
such unorganised and tumultuous defence as any
single house-father may put up with a chair-leg or a
garden rake, or any unlawful measures which may be
taken by a self-appointed Provisional Government.
Of course there would be a Provisional Govern-
ment of some sort, or a pretence at one. According
to the propositions quoted above, the Federal Legisla-
ture, elected by adult suffrage; the State Govern-
ment, which is built on a fairly liberal —sometimes a
very liberal—suffrage; the citizen army, which is
really the male population ; and the police, who are
mostly drawn from the manual labor section of the
community, are not \o interfere against the workers,
though apparently they may interfere on their side. There
is no suggestion (1) of any guarantee that the
strikers would establish an efficient police of their
own; (2) of any assurance that every worker would
be a gentleman who could be trusted on the loose
when law was suspended; or (3) that thieves,
drunks, loafers, sex maniacs and miscellaneous unde-
sirables wouldn’t mix themselves up in the crowd,
and pass as “workers,” and take advantage of the
suspension of law.
So Fat in general, backed up by some of the non-
striking classes who weren’t really Fat, would estab-
lish some kind of a purely class and self-appointed
Administration —if they could find a leader —-while
the People's Government looked on. Being practi-
cally an outlawed dog in any case, Fat would have
to throw his belltopper in the ring, for the reason
that nothing could make matters much worse,
for himself and his women-folk. He would
doubtless import any kind of foreign troops
supposing he could get them. He would buy up
any kind of local force that could be obtained for
money. If he lost there would be an unholy indus-
trial smash, for quite a heap of machinery and ap-
pliances would be broken in the struggle, and it
would be some time before industry got fully going
again. If he won he would probably bum the
Trades Hall alive in his excitement, and make an
unholy attempt to establish a despotism, or oligarchy,
on the ruins of the old order.
It would be a pity if any obscure fuss of this sort
should happen in a country which has acquired the
most liberal Constitution and the most promising
industrial arbitration system extant. . Perhaps the
proposed Melbourne P.L.C. scheme might be recast
so as to embody some sort of guarantee that, if the
ordinary law is suspended during a strike, the strikers
will supplv a good semblance of temporary govern-
ment to take its place. This is important, for other-
wise some very weird and obscene folk will get
loose under the pretence of being “workers.”
The Chameleon or Quick-change
Administration.
During the last few days the Cook Govern-
ment, by the mouth of Senator Millen, has
repeatedly notified its passionate devotion to
the Defence policy—both naval and military
—which it cursed like a legion of devils or
gnomes or what not a few brief years ago.
Ever since Winston Churchill told the
House of Commons that Australia could
best be defended in the North Sea; that
Japan was the Commonwealth’s trustiest
friend and most reliable protector; and that
the idea of an Australian fleet of any size
worth mentioning was, in consequence, pre-
posterous—ever since, in brief, Churchill
revived the old Dreadnought arguments of
half a dozen years ago Prime Minister
Cook, Defence Minister Millen and their
subordinates have been simmering with in-
dignation. Millen published a minute on
the subject which must have caused
Churchill to reel with astonishment,
assuming he knew anything of the history
of the birth of the Australian navy. So
uncompromisingly Australian was Millen’s
attitude in this respect that it evoked a con-
gratulatory cheer from his natural foe,
Fisher. Needless to say, the attitude of
the Ministry does not represent the senti-
ments of the rank and file of Liberalism;
of those persons, in other words, who have
nothing to gain by turning their coats. The
imperishable Conroy, of N. S. Wales, for
example, had the following protest to lodge
the day after the appearance of Millen’s
reply to the British First Lord: —
He considered that, though the Defence Minister’s
attitude might meet with political support, it would
not meet with the support of men who had
thought the matter 0ut.... If war broke out with
Germany the fighting would be in the North Sea.
Long before the Australian fleet could get there the
war would be over. If the unit was there when the
battle was on it might turn the scale in favor of
the Empire... .What was wanted was concentration.
The sentiment of the Empire should be encouraged,
not local sentiment, as was being done at the present
time He trusted that the Minister’s statement
would not go forth as the policy of the Liberal party,
as long as he was a member of it.
There spoke a genuine Australian “Lib-
eral.” The lot of such unfortunates is a
tragic one. They must swallow, every year
of their lives, doctrines which they have de-
nounced over and over again as pernicious,
or be reconciled to the prospect of remain-
ing obscurely in the political background for
all time. Parliamentary Liberalism has no
use for either consistency or honesty in poli-
tics. The party which stood for Freetrade
for so long, and which deluded simple forth-
right characters such as Conroy and Bruce
Smith into believing that it really believed
in Freetrade, has jettisoned that unfortu-
nate old creed as though it bore a curse. It
fought as an anti-Socialist party for six
weary years, and it has now adopted all the
Socialism of its predecessors—the Land-tax,
the Federal Arbitration Court and the like
—and is preparing in addition to introduce
an Insurance Bill that will be the Socialistic
limit if it becomes law. Liberalism has been
particularly strong on the sacredness of the
Constitution ever since the Laborites put
forward their proposals for amending that
somewhat unsatisfactory instrument. All
that is changed now. Only last week the
Federal Attorney-General, dealing with the
Privy Council’s decision in the Sugar
Case, intimated that the Cook Gov-
ernment intended to submit a set of consti-
tutional amendments which would have for
their object the widening of the Australian
Parliament’s powers. The effect of this tire-
less consumption of principles on the part of
the leaders of Liberalism is beneficial, as re-
gards Australia. Owing to it the Nationalist
policy is carried out whichever party hap-
pens to be in office. But the effect on the
fortunes of the narty itself is bound to be
bad in the end. For one thing the inevitable
outcome of such a system must be to drive
the frauds and the wasters to the top. There
is no room for an honest and consistent Lib-
eral in the Liberal Parliamentary party of
to-day. And furthermore, a party such as
this, which has no settled convictions, which
is anti-Australian to-day and pro-defence to-
morrow, anti-Socialistic on Monday and in
favor of State assistance to everybody on the
following Tuesday, has no hope of being
taken seriously for long by the electors.
Australian Liberalism is the world’s greatest
exposition of the Fiji uncle business in poli-
tics ; and the Fiji uncle enterprise was never
a permanently reproductive one.
An Extraordinary Happening.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) representative
advocated decentralisation at last week’s
Sydney meeting of the Chamber of Com-
merce delegates, and the gathering well-nigh
fell dead with astonishment. The distaste
which Newcastle has for any scheme designed
to connect—say—Port Stephens with the
Northern railway system is as lively as the
hatred which is evinced by an ageing beauty
for her fair young rival. The matter has
nothing to do with party politics. For the
first time in the history of N. S. Wales
every seat in and immediately around New-
castle is held by a Laborite. Decentralisa-
tion is supposed to be a State Labor plank.
Yet the prospects of justice being done to
the N. S. Wales electors who inhabit the
Port Stephens hinterland are as remote as
they were when Newcastle and environs
were entirely in Tory hands. For a New-
castle man, dependent for place or power
on the goodwill- of his fellow townsmen, to
advocate the opening-up to trade of. Port
Stephens, were equivalent to social and poli-
tical felo-de-se. Newcastle wants all the
Northern, and other, trade that is graspable,
and looks to its public men to ensure that
the iniquity is accomplished. The weird-
est of insanities are perpetrated to this end.
The strange case of the s.s. Erse is worth
noting in the above connection. The Erse,
when loaded, is too big for Newcastle’s arti-
ficial harbor. But its owners decline to have
it trapesing about the ocean in a semi-loaded
state. And so, the other day, this vessel
took in half its cargo at Newcastle, left
that perilous haven of refuge treading
lightly, as it were, like Agag, and dropped
anchor in Port Stephens. There it was met
by another semi-filled ship and loaded up
with the second cargo. Salamander Bay,
which is a mile or so inside the Port Stephen
heads, is large enough and deep enough
to carry the navies of the world,
and the waters leading to it are capable
of floating the largest ship extant at low
tide. So the Erse had no difficulty in start-
ing for its British Columbian home with a
full cargo aboard. To an entirely sane
community this wicked business of a bogus
port, such as Newcastle, being encouraged
at vast public expense, while nothing what-
ever is done for a mighty asset like Port
Stephens, would be a matter for scandal.
But the anti-decentralisationists are not
altogether sane: in fact, they are provincial-
ism-mad and parish-loony. And the bulk of
the remainder of the electors don’t fully
grasp what is happening. The building of
a railway line between Port Stephens and
Stroud-road would cost little. Most of the
material could he got on the spot at bed-
rock prices; and the expenditure on land-
resumption would be extraordinarily low.
On the other hand, a huge quantity of good
country would be opened up to settlers in
areas where the rainfall is plentiful. About
100 miles of needless haulage to Sydney
would be saved to Nor’-Westerners, and the
cougestion at Darling Harbor would be les-
sened proportionately, with beneficial results
to those whose perishable products find their
natural outlet in Port Jackson. N. S. Wales
would achieve a new, live, deep-water port,
where at present it merely has an old dead
one —a port in which vessels of all sizes
would be able to barbor in weather of all
sorts, and not required, as is often the case
with Newcastle, to stand off till the blast
moderated or the tide rose or what not.
Also the State would acquire, presently, a
new city—a State-owned city if the Labor
party remained in power and lived
up to its creed—with all the Treasury
gains accruing therefrom. There is,
however, the usual menagerie in the path,
and the majority of its denizens are the
selfish animals who speak for commerce in
Newcastle and Sydney. For the most part,
these calamities think nothing of Australia,
little of N. S. Wales, and less of the inter-
ests of anv particular section of it. by com-
parison with the immediate material advan-
tages to be gained by them if their native
city retains the monopolv of all the trade
that is going. That is why the spectacle of
a prominent Newcastle citizen advocating
genuine decentralisation stirs something
the same wonderment in the. bosoms
of discerning observers as would inspire a
crowd if it saw a shark rescuing a bather
from the undertow.
♦
The silliest and saddest thing going is the
time-wasting motion of censure. Andrew
Fisher moved one on Joseph Cook, chiefly
on the allegation that he had given Tees-
dale Smitß a railway contract without
competition. Joseph Cook hooted back
that Henry Ciiinn had been appointed to
the transcontinental railway construction
job on certain recommendations, one of
which set forth that he ought to have it
because he had worked for the Labor party
at election time. Exactly what Andrew
Fisher hoped to gain by his motion of cen-
sure it is hard to say. He might defeat
Cook in a technical fashion through some
of Cook’s lazy and sluggish supporters be-
ing away, but that wouldn’t give him a
steady majority in the House of Represen-
tatives. He might postpone the double dis-
solution for a while, but it is difficult to
guess why he should want, to do so. Fisher
can hardly lose his majority in the Senate;
it is so big that he might as well expect to
lose a whale in an egg cup. And he may
very easily recover his majority in the Re-
presentatives. A Federal election looks like
a very good gamble for the Fisher party
and a very poor sort of prospect for the
Cook party. If ex-Premier Fisher was a
hardened gambler —a man who was accus-
tomed to putting his sovereign on the bob-
tailed nag at long odds—he wouldn’t try
to delay Cook’s double dissolution. In-
stead he would tell that sorrowful and hair-
scanty person to hurry up and do his worst.
From “F. Croson” :
The weak point in the Vic. Wages Board system—
its want of compulsion—has found it out again. If
the employees don’t choose to accept a determination
they strike; if the employers are dissatisfied with
things they close down their works, or lock out their
men; and there is no power to say either party Nay.
Lately Minister of Labor Peacock put into force
the Stonecutters’ Board’s determination—and so
brought to a head a dispute that has threatened for
some time. The employers’ representatives on this
Board had resigned, and the trade had declined to
nominate others—allegedly because it mistrusted the
chairman —so the Board went ahead without them.
Naturally the determination didn’t suit them,
so they countered by desiring their employees
to take an “indefinite holiday.” This is bad-
dish for the employers, and absolutely rotten
for the employees, who aren’t to blame in any way.
The only comfort is that the public won’t be worried
much. The trade concerns itself with those slabs of
granite or marble whereon are set forth the virtues
of the dear departed, the place of birth, death, age,
etc., Of the late lamented, the achievements, titles and
so on of the remains, and similar inconsequential
matters. It wouldn’t be an unadulterated tragedy if
the whole race of stonecutters was abolished and the
making and erection of tombstones prohibited,
whereby much useless labor could be turned to account
and many slabs of smooth granite utilised for hearth-
stones, paper weights and so forth. Also, the healthy,
sane cause of cremation would thus be advanced
somewhat. The trouble is that the same factor which
is dislocating this trade is at any moment liable to
hold up one of the enterprises that really matter.
The Australasian Cow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wellington, Thursday.—The employers and work-
ers in the boot trade of Maoriland will confer on
April 15 to consider a solution of the problem of
intermittent employment caused by the enormous
importations. —News item.
They took the old, misshapen cow—the cow
they’d milked quite dry,
A one-time goddess of the field! —and said
that she must die ;
They sent her to the city yards, aboard a
filthy truck,
And sold her for a pound or two; then drank
each other luck !
The old, scarred beast was led away—the
abattoirs were near;
The House of Blood wherein they slay ten
thousand cows each year!
And there they stunned her with a blow, and,
next, they cut her throat:
“Old cows were cheap and plentiful,” the
stock reporter wrote.
They skinned the dead, misshapen beast, and
salted down the hide ;
They cut the old cow’s carcase up and sent it
far and wide—
O’Brien’s lunch, and Tompkins’ tea, and
Jones’s dinner, too,
Were all provided from the beast the slaugh-
termen “put through”!
They ground her bones to feed the fowls, or
fashioned hafts for blades ;
They made from what remained of her man-
ures of various grades;
And then they took the grisly hide—the salt,
wet, odorous pelt—
And shoved it in a foreign ship whose name
could not be spelt!
This foreign boat, the Grosser-Wurster-
Something, took that hide
And landed it at Hamburg Dock —with thou-
sands more beside!
And foreigners with frightful names then
came, and saw, and smelt,
And —having reckoned up the price—they
bought and tanned that pelt.
They tanned that Australasian hide with
good Australian bark —
Which had been shipped to Hamburg, too,
I may as well remark —
And when the skin was nicely tanned to
leather, close in grain,
They sent the Australasian cow's pelt bach
to us again!
I’ve got a bit —you’ve got a bit —they’re on
our boots to-day;
Boots made from Australasian hides in Bos-
ton, U.S.A.!
For —as I may explain just here—The Aus-
tralasian cow,
Her hide, and all her sisters’ hides, are wel-
comed there just now!
But over here in Maoriland, and silly New
South Wales,
And other States wherein the Australasian
cow prevails—
The tanneries are shutting up ; boot-factories
close down,
And staunch “Freetraders” — wophing-men!
—are cadging half a crown.
The manufacturers who put their money,
brains and time
To finding jobs for working-men to keep
them out of crime,
Are twiddling thumbs, or catching fish, or
grubbing weeds and roots,
Or —finding foreign-trading pays —are just
importing boots!
And this is very kind of them. The German
and the Yank
Who sell them boots, they sell to us, have
money in the bank
And prosperous, large factories to which
they point with pride—
All built to make the boots we wear from
nur evnnrfed hide’
our exported mcie.
Meantime, the Australasian cow on Aus-
tralasian hills
Grows fewer year bv year—tinlike the Aus-
tralasian bills ! "
So every hide that’s sent abroad a double
loss implies,
And still another industry just languishes
and dies.
But who are we that we should growl, or
beat a loud parade?
Are not our workers boastful of “the glories
of Freetrade”?
Hail, German leather—Yankee boots! We’re
all importers now —
And God defend the aliens’ friend, the Aus-
tralasian Cow !
N.s.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From U/6 Day;
£3 I Os* Week.
ACCORDEONS
THE
“ DUDLEY” Accordeons
Famous for full, sonorous tone and
excellence of design and finish.
Ebonised Mouldings; Nickel Corner
Protectors; Button Kevs of Mother of
Pearl; Finest. Steel Reeds; 10-fold
Double Bellows, with Brass Corner
Protectors; Leather Handles; com-
plete in box.
WONDERFUL VALUE.
MODEL A, 10 x in., 2 stops, 10
keys, 2 rows of reeds, and 2 basses,
-Post Free 35/-
THIS SHOULD SUIT YOU.
MODEL B, 10 x 6 in., 3 stops, 10 keys,
3 rows of reeds, and 2 basses. Post
Fr ee 457-
Write for Lists of Instruments.
MnoaiiwissNinoj min uz
S3>JAS d‘V
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED "CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.”
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish liver
and bowels.
Mother! Your child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish.. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy,” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act natur-
ally, or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, re-
member, a gentle liver and bowel cleansing
should always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals “California Syrup of Figs”
fpr children’s ills; give a teaspoonful, and
in a few hours all the waste matter, sour bile
and fermenting food clogged in the bowels
pass out of the system, and you have a
healthy and playful child again. All chil-
dren love this harmless, delicious “fruit laxa-
tive,” and it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.” Directions for babies,
children of all ages and grown-ups are plainly
on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “California Syrup of Figs,” then .
look and see that it is made by the “Cali-
fornia Fig Syrup Company.” Counterfeits
are being sold here. Refuse substitutes.
All leading chemists sell “California Syrup
of Figs,”, f/l-j and 1/9 per bottle.
Among all the big rulers the world con-
tains —the rulers who are big enough to
tight, but don’t want to —probably the most
patient is President Wilson, of the United
States. He stands for the crowd which has
always preached peace at almost any price.
The Democratic party holds that the Repub-
lican party is big, blusterous, bullying, trucu-
lent and unchristian; also that it has the
habit of bloodshed and disembowelment.
Holy Calm is the Democratic strong point.
Yet it was Polk, the Democrat, who drifted
into the first war with Mexico, and it is
Wilson, the Democrat, who drifts into the
second. Also it was Buchanan, the Demo-
crat. who wandered into the great U.S.
Civil War. The men of Holy Calm have
very little luck. Many people, when they
meet a Quaker, proceed at once to kick him
just because he is non-resistant. They
wouldn’t do it save for the fact that he is
non-resistant. And very often they discover
that a kicked Quaker can be madder than a
biffed bushranger. Unfortunately the coun-
try which is run by the Quaker has to pay
the bill, and if the bumptious Quaker wasn’t
so proud about his harmlessness there might
not be any bill.
—
“Port Fire” comes to light:—
The N.S.W. Coastal llocket Brigade got a long-
looktd-for chance to mention its existence on April,
17, when the collier Wallarah was blown on top of
a reef at Catherine Hill Bay, a dozen miles south
of Newcastle. Ma maintains an efficient life-saving
staff with well-equipped lifeboats, rocket gear and
apparatus of all kinds. But as the many vessels
which get wrecked or wreck themselves on Ma s
coast persist in keeping out of range of the brigades,
they have never had a real chance of distinguishing
themselves—the Newcastle lifeboat excepted. When the
news came that the Wallarah was ashore some miles
down the coast the local life-savers determined to
rescue somebody, so they swarmed on to their carts
and began a dreary march to the scene of action, in
the face of a succession of strong southerly rain-
squalls howling like all the Devils of Darkness. On
reaching the wreck they (the life-savers, not the
howling devils) found that II of the crew had res-
cued themselves and were on shore. Six were stand-
ing by the wreck, and the brigade fired a rocket at
the steamer. The captain’s eye was well in for the
first missile biffed into the rigging of the collier. A
line was carried on board and the six men were
yanked through the surf. While the crew was not
in imminent danger, the job was shipshape and Bris-
tol fashion. The Australian coast is too long and
too sparsely settled to have a really efficient service,
but it is something to know that, given a chance, the
few establishments there are can give a good account
of themselves. Had the catastrophes which overtook
the Ly-ee-moon, the Maitland, the Catterthun and
others occurred within reach of a rocket brigade
their death rolls should have been materially re-
duced.
Snuffle and Eastertide walk hand in band
with curious persistency. Heartened, pos-
sibly, by the repeated assaults of Arch-
bishop Wright, of N.S.W., on the Sydney
Show authorities for their irreligious, not to
say grossly unsportsmanlike, conduct in
opening their circus on Good Friday, the
editor of the Morwell (Vic.) Gazette let
fly this way (10/4/T4) :
Easter is upon us once again with its usual accom-
paniment of merriment and holiday-making. It has
more than once occurred to us how few are the
people who really understand the real seriousness of
Easter, because they don’t trouble to think what
the event means. Of course they know, but, sad to
relate, the remembrance. of the suffering of our
Saviour is scarcely given any consideration in com-
parison with the schemes for pleasure and recreation.
We do not wish to preach, but undoubtedly this
season of the year is far too lightly looked upon. It
is beyond our comprehension, etc., etc.
This is the way the matter appears to us, but, as
we cannot, alter things, we trust that all who can
will treat the season of the year honestly, as their,
hearts direct them. IFe hope that the rest from their
labors, combined with adequate spiritual renova-
tion, will renew their courage and energy, and help ~
them to live the lives of worthy, God-fearing citizens
of the Empire.
The issue in which those splendid sentiments
figured came out on Good Friday. One may
take it, therefore, that during the early hours
ot the sacred day comps, strove and readers
swore,, and lads burdened with proofs and
inkstains fell up and down stairs in pagan
haste, in an endeavor to get the paper out
to time. It is ■ possible that the sainted
editor wrote portion of his godly message on
Good Inday, and more than likely that he
*® aa procas ar, d saw the paper to press on
that day. Later, armies of newsagents and
their employees were encouraged to distri-
bute the Gazette. They were thus deprived
ot their Eastertide rest, and prevented from
connecting with “adequate spiritual renova-
tion. Ihe result was they were unable to
renew their courage and energy” with the
object of helping them to “live the lives of
worthy, God-fearing citizens of the Empire.”
because the Morwell Gazette was
unwilling to forego the filthy dross which
accrued to it from doing business on Good
, riday. When this paper sees a person
butchering a policeman it is not impressed
by the. assassin’s earnest protestations in re
the wickedness of slaughtering officers of
the law. The most powerful proof that any-
one — 1)6 be e( htor or archbishop or mere
, ° ke T can s P pply in support of the view
that the slaying of policemen is wrong con-
sists, simply, in leaving the Force unslain.
An ounce of live policeman is worth more in
this connection than a ton of dead exhorta-
tion.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Forty Thieves.”
Palace . “Molly Bawn.”
Adelphi “The Tenderfoot.”
Little Theatre “The Gay Lord Quex.”
Tivoli Mclntosh s V audeville Co.
National Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
Iycecjm Spencer's Pictures.
Glaciarium & OLYMriA. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
Prince Alfred Park... Wirths’Circus.
Imperial Salon De Luxe Dancing.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
King's “What Happened to Mary.”
Royal “Madame X.”
Princess’s Harry Lauder.
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Oi.y,mpia Spencer’s Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Alexander Watson Recitals.
i—♦ ;
From Sydney Telegraph (15/4/’l4) -
It is proposed to run night carnivals in connection
with the next Sydney Royal Show, and to include
chariot races in the programme.'
An intimation to this effect was made by Mr. Sorner
last night.
Chariot races are wholly in the picture in a
Biblical melodrama; and they would not be
entirely out of place on the bill of a vaude-
ville show r . A comic chariot race which
ended with the destruction of the chariots
and the disablement of the drivers (the King,
say, and the Dame) would go well in panto-
mime. Also small chariots drawn by trained
dogs and driven by tame monkeys or apes
would make a sure appeal to certain classes
of audiences. But the whereforeness of
introducing a chariot race, or, worse still,
a series of them into a State-subsidised Agri-
cultural Show is a problem that this paper
can in nowise fathom. The Australian
farmer is unlikely to revert to the chariot as
a means of conveyance for himself or his
goods, even though the country roads get
rottener and the railway systems more de-
generate than at present. The chariot, as a
utility vehicle, has had its. day. The writer
has never seen a horse of true chariot type
except in pictures. But he is able to say
without fear of being eiven the lie, bird or
other embarrassing gift, that this class of
animal will bring in no money to the local
breeder. It- appears to be a sort of galloping
Clydesdale. Such an animal would neces-
sarily be SDurned by all moderns who did not
go in for chariots. In a very short time the
industry would become insolvent, and
collapse in a state of irretrievable ruin. Mr.
Somer said to the Telegraph man, with a
certain pathos:—
Our programme is jammed full up with horse
events now, and it takes us all of our time to get
through.
Which statement embodied a tremendous
truth. The Show is already about half Show
and half circus. If it is gradually to be
transformed into a circus pure and simple,
well and good. But the electors, with whose
hard-earned money it is subsidised, should
have a say in the matter first. We are all
Socialists now, with the exception possibly
of Bruce Smith, but to have a State Circus
THE “FORTY THIEVES” PANTO., AT
SYDNEY HER MAJESTY'S.
foisted on us before the question of a Reper-
tory Theatre has even been fairly discussed
is a flagrant example of starting things at
the wrong end.
The Sydney Tivoli is in the same place as
it was when The Bulletin called attention
to its existence last week. Also, the pro-
gramme. is much the same—the only addi-
tion being the Gills, bunny-huggists—and
the Tango Tea girls are in much the same
state of dress or undress as before. To-
morrow afternoon they will demonstrate what
Indies look like in silk pyjamas and smiles.
This seems to be a deliberate attempt to in-
fringe the patent rights of the author of
Double-bed Dialogues,” who dresses his
best girl in low-necked nighties and kisses.
The medical men daily attending Fred
Niblo, at Sydney Criterion, report that the
date of his demise has been again postponed.
This announcement is apparently due to the
abounding popularity of the chief comedian
in “Never Say Die.”
At the Little Theatre, Sydney, the key-
note of the production of Pinero’s “The Gay
Lord Quex,” is the all-round excellence of
the characterisation. Thus, Hugh Buckler’s
fine performance as Quex scarcely calls for
notice, since his presentation of this famous
“man-of-the-Pinero-world” is so artistically
in keeping with his milieu. However, one
has only to compare Hugh Buckler’s concep-
tion of the cheerful, clever and resourceful
nobleman with his contrasting appearance as
“THE VILLAIN PURSUES HER."
A well-kuown performer irritating audiences
nightly.
Ham Carve, that helpless, easy-going child
of genius in "The Great Adventure,” to see
with what subtle artistry he achieves his
quiet effects. On its merits as a thrilling
play and its adequate production "Quex”
should have a long run.
The Very Reverend Arch-beditor pro-
nounces the benediction upon “Joseph, Mrs.
Joseph and the Whole Hebrew Family” at
Sydney Royal, as viewed from pulpit 59a :
When this sad announcement is read, dear friends,
Joseph and his brethren, as well as Zuleika, the un-
blotted Benjamin who ate too much at the party, the
pyramids, the .'head cook and bottlewasher, and the
camel will be no more. The playhouse where these
kindly people and live stock disported themselves
vyill be closed in token of mourning-. Personally I
should have liked to see the performance; as I have
heard from members of my congregation who did not
occupy either seats 59a or la, that it was a pleasing
show. It is too late now for a suggestion which I
humbly make, in case the she-asses and the pyramid
are ever revived. It is that “Joseph and the Camel”
would have made an excellent revue. The temptation
scene could have taken place on the gangway, in
full view of even the occupants of seats 59a and la.
Then the camel could have made a sensational appear-
ance by walking the plank; and a dress parade of
tango whiskers, headed by Pharaoh, with the •chin-
adornment that looked as if he had stolen it from
Mrs. Pharaoh’s latest spring model. However, the
brazier that heated the curling-irons that put out
Zuleika’s nice eyes has been- put out, too. The
sheep have started by train for home and Homebush,
and are scheduled to arrive there, if all goes well,
by the end of the week. The pyramid and the
wigs have been packed up. The nice handmaidens,
with pleasing names like Mehtu and Arilennu, have
scrubbed off their brown make-up, and the coat of
many colors that looked like the new Chinese flag
has been folded up with the moth-ball that doesn’t
corrupt. On Saturday another melodrama, entitled
“Sealed Orders,” will take possession of Pharaoh’s
Palace.
The Bulletin makes a personal explana-
tion. A fortnight ago its Circus Expert re-
marked in this page that the Flying Cadonas
were possibly the Flying Someone Elses last
year, and the Cadonas object. They explain
that they could fly almost before they could
walk, and they were Cadonas, even before
that. Likewise they are in no way connected
with any other firm of flies of the same or
any other name, nor with Lizzie the blood-
sweating hippopotamus, nor with the trained
sheep., nor with Joe Cook, nor with Alice the
elephant; also, that their turn is entirely
independent of the other well-known act,
“The Flying Capitalists.” The only reason
The Bulletin can assign to its Circus Ex-
pert’s lapse is that the Cadonas turn would
be very much like The Flying Various Other
Peoples if it were a great deal better or not
much worse, or something. To conclude, it
adds, for the public’s benefit, that the said
Cadonas form part of Wirths’ Circus, now
doing excellent business at Prince Alfred
Park (Sydney) ; and that the programme
also includes the Bedouin Arab tumblers and
pyramidists, several good riding turns, and
Crotton and the Skremka gymnasts, none of
whom, by the way, are connected with the
Flying Cadonas or with anybody else under
the sun.
After to-night there will be one more
opportunity at the Palace (Sydney) this
season of observing Allen Doone and Co.
play “The Wearing of the Green.” On
Saturday “Molly Pawn” will be revived.
There is no particular reason why it should
be revived, but Doone has decided to do it;
and, as he has leased the theatre, what he
says will have to go.
“The Tenderfoot” is still making a big
effort to line up to its advertisements. And
the mere fact that it is trying is sufficient
excuse for this paper to hand out its blessing.
Whether it catches up to the press agent’s
idea of it or not is best settled by spending
an evening at Sydney Adelphi.
The pantomime at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
shows no signs of the wilt that precedes the
end. Neither the codlin moth of slump nor
the white ant of imminent dissolution is ob-
servable anywhere about the premises in-
habited by Edwin Brett, Barry Lupino and
the rest of the talented family. On every
week night, with the regularity of clockwork,
a loud howl of joy issues from the box office;
and on four afternoons per month similar
howls may be heard emanating from the
same spot. Infallible indications these,
that the show is doing well. The howling is
expected to continue for months to come.
Sydney’s White City is neai’ing the time
when its myriad lights will be cut off at the
meter. Meanwhile the park continues to be
fairly well patronised. On Saturday after-
noon, a children's carnival is to be the fea-
ture of the amusement.
Leonard and Willard are the principal
laugh-mei’chants at the Sydney National
Amphitheatre this week, with “Peg and the
Limit” competing strongly for business. The
inevitable and weary tango and such-like
crank dances are in the capable feet of Carl
Bentzen and Phyllis Lawton. Also, “The
Poolroom” is inculcating its moral lesson, and
comedian Denis Carnev (whom this writer
thought had long gone to that burn from
which few comedians return if the Judge is
upright and impervious to graft) is on the
bill as in the days of yore.
The new craze for freak dances has not
often been blessed with such a handsome
advertisement is it received on Monday night,
when the Imperial Salon de Luxe (horrible
name), at the city end of William-street,
Sydney, was opened. Entrance was by
invitation, and if the youth and beauty and
fashion and enthusiasm that commingled in
the great hall is any forecast of what the
season is to be, shares in the I.S.L. should
soar like aeroman Guillaux. But, of course,
it is no forecast; no free show ever is. The.
hall decorations are the work of a man (or
men) of taste, and are schemed in lanterns
illuminated by electric light of 25,000 candle-
power. The two or three expert tangoists
and contortion dancers having been momen-
tarily whistled off, the floor space was
crowded with thousands of slow-swaying
waltzers. It was a vast, animated kaleido-,
scope. For public dancing the Salon w;as
opened on Tuesday, and will continue open,
afternoons and evenings, during the season.
This week’s Sydney pictures:—
Crystal Palace : “Hearts Adrift,” being a varia-
tion of the original Robinson Crusoe yarn with a
lady (the popular Mary Pickford) substituted for
the nigger Friday.
Lyric: “Mount Vesuvius,” about , the boilingest
thing in films this paper has struck.
Colonial: “An Award of Justice,” showing how
much easier it is for the evangelist who has been
wrongly accused of murder by a politician to escape
from gaol, than for the mere individual who has
been accused of threepenn'orth Of internal beer by a
policeman to get through the eye of a needle.
Empress: “The Shadow,” containing more domestic
troubles than any two ordinary divorce cases put
together.
West's Glaciaricm & Olympia : “Sold for a Title,”
which won’t be news to some titled gentlemen The
Bulletin knows.
Spencer’s Lyceum: “The Chevalier de Maison
Rouge,” one of the best known of the French Revo-
lution yarns, and probably one of the least reliable.
As a matter of fact, there was never any French Revo-
lution. The Bland Holt of the period got up a huge
drama of that name, with Robespierre as scene-shifter
and Napoleon Bonaparte as stage-manager, and it had
such a long run that people began to think it was
real. It was in the course of that drama that Switzer-
land was invented, and even to this day the card-
board mountains are put up in the spring and taken
down and packed away in the autumn.
** * *
Adelaide shows are very strong on. the
song, or dance, or occasionally song-and-
dance, just now. At the King’s is a first-in-
Australia Vienna trio, fiddling brilliantly,
with the harp as a prominent side-line; also
the Five Musical Lassies are what they call
themselves and something over. The Guz-
mani Three do some remarkable balancing,
and the Rondas Three whirl the old bicycle
in new ways; the star performer has the


WHY HAIR FADES OUT.
THE CAUSE—AND ITS PREVENTION.
Dr. N. DUCLAUD.
Your hair falls out either because the roots
snnvel up and die, or because the scalp re-
laxes and loosens its hold upon the hair roots.
ihls is almost invariably due to dandruff
germs which rob the hair of its nutrition,
actually starving it to death. To stop fall-
ing hair and prevent total or partial bald-
ness the dandruff germ must be destroyed,
for this purpose, physicians and hair special-
ists now invariably 'prescribe a lotion com-
posed of J-dram menthol crystals, 3 ounces of
Day rum, and one ounce of lavona de cem-
posee. Rub well into the scalp with the
nnger tips, and every dandruff germ will be
destroyed within two or three days. The
Pair will stop falling out and begin to grow
at an amazing rate, and brittle and scanty
nair will quicklv become soft, glossv and
uxunant. The results following the use of
tnis formula are so truly remarkable that I
strongly, adyise every reader whose hair falls
out to give it a trial at once.*
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
810-SHOWMEN!
~P HERE S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street.
Sydney.
IRTO YOURSELFP
ARE YOU ,'A!
"VOU begin to
■*" look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
ā
a
Lockyer’s
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
MEDICAL MEN
RECOMMEND...
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £3,200,000.
Incorporated 1838 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc
Coat of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company's Method,
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
happy knack of making his feats look not
as difficult as possible, but as easy. At the
Tivoli, the Daunton Shaws are equally
sensational per bike, and Tom Davis and
co. whirl round a saucer-track per motor —
an old but always thrilling turn. The two
Bobs have the sure humor of a stout Yan-
kee, and in a Waterbury and Tenny musical
turn the comedian is a fine actor. Tango
teas at the Tivoli continue, and have wisely
introduced fresh dancers, Salinger and Miss
Dudley Hamilton. West’s pictures have the
great “Atlantis” tragedy (a film which in-
volved the hiring of a real liner and the
sinking of an equally real vessel).
Also Onkaparinga steeplechase is found a
safe draw; the Pav. shows it too; so does
Wondergrapli, day and night. The Wonder-
graph Co. is responsible also for the Butter-
flies at the Town Hall. Lee and Miss Made-
line Green tango for them, and the general
flow of humor has been immediately success-
ful. The various seaside shows have shut
down for the winter, and Branseombe’s
Dandies, in the Exhibition Gardens, have
started to caricature each other, a sure sign
of the end of the season. Incidental shows
have been a physical culture evening by
Clarence Weber and some fine girls, and a
farewell to Edward Reeves, who goes to
Europe to elocute, after 30 years or so of it
here. The Royal, also, is said to be staging
Williamsonian opera; but as manager
Stewart, dressed in a little brief authority
and some other garments (thank Heaven
lie has some other garments, for if the brief
authority was as short as the gold-spangled
high-heeled shirt which Wilson Barrett used
to wear in “Claudian” the result would lie
cold shivers) sees fit to refuse admission
to The Bulletin critic, this must be re-
garded as only rumor.
The Taits had some braw, bricht fliclit
nichts at Melbourne Princess’s last week, ye
ken. The inflow of visitors to that new hame
of vaudeville is referred to in the advt. as the
“Pilgrimage to Lauder.” and Scots wha hae
wi’ haggis fed are leading the way. Also the
purely Australian public, that hardly knows
the difference between a philibeg and a clay-
more, is following suit in this direction. Evi-
dently popular opinion has made a. favorable
pronouncement on Harry Lauder and co.,
even at half a guinea for reserved seats,
which seems a wee bit stiff until ye get used
to it. Some folk are nae sae verra enthusi-
astic aboot Lauder’s introductory sangs, for
the refrains consist largely o’ chuckles, and
the braw Scawtch humor is rather foorced.
His story of how the lassies pleaded for locks
o’ hair from McKay’s bald head is the sort
o’ joke that only a large-salaried comedian
could bring doon the house wi’. But when
he ceases to chuckle hissel’, and lays aside his
huge pipe, and proceeds to be droll in other
disguises—weel then Lauder admits of no
further argument. He’s a’ richt: In other
word, is guid guids, likewise the
real McKay, also the Scottish equi-
valent for “It.” The essential melodi-
ousness of his sanging is the mair
marked noo that he is nae mair nervous.
His hold of the audience tightens every nicht,
and pretty soon he will have everybody deoch-
and-dorising. The co. remains as on the
first night, in all respects except that Kitty
Ryan, the Irish balladist, has substituted
HARRY LAUDER SEASON,
AT MELBOURNE
PR INC ESS'S.
Telling some Scotch jokes. A back view.
songs for dirges with improved results. The
conjurer turns his face into a marionette as
before. Selwyn Driver, who still patters as
though he were in “deah old London, bai
Jove.” continues to drive a 2in. nail of satire
into the coffin of ragtime vocalism, and the
swank of Sheldon, the musical conductor, is
part of the entertainment, as before. The
swank seems natural to Sheldon, his front
name being Horace.
Business has been buoyant at Melbourne
livoli since Ada Reeve and co. took charge
of the programme and the flags of Mclntosh
were nailed to the middle of the auditorium.
•Miss Reeve’s success, by the way, casts severe
reflections on the turns of many previous
songstresses and pattresses who invariably
changed their costume when they changed
their tune. Ada works for half an hour, or
so, in one frock. It was a white virginal
frock at the outset, but this week it is an
impressive gown of sheeny grey, or what not.
Otherwise the wearer is the same dainty
diseuse, with the same lot of songs. Two or
three of them need all the art and effort of
Ada to make them go, but they do g;o, and
nothing makes a stronger appeal to Tivolian
taste than the lady’s lapse into the lachry-
mose. Pathos is not her strong point. Her
artistry is purely theatrical in its most
vivacious moods, and when she strikes an
attitude of despair it is one of those safety
attitudes which strike only on the box of
tricks. Nevertheless the applause of the
audience is warmly sympathetic, as a rule.
The fact is, most men love a soupQon of
mawkish sentiment in their vaudeville stew T ,
and all women are at heart suffering heroines
of melodrama. As regards the rest of the
co., this writer has not yet discovered any
charm in the restlessness of Tucker, the
prancing violinist, who fiddles mostly in imi-
tation of the more expert Rinaldo. The
Golden Athlones have at least a surface ap-
pearance of novelty, and the latter portions
of the Gilday and Pox turn can be forgiven
for the sake of the conversation of those
Hebrew delineators before they start to sing.
When once they get on the warble their appe-
tite for encores is positively improper.
At the J.C.W. theatres in Melbourne the
history of the past three weeks is repeating
itself. "Madamn X.” was to have died her
last death at the Royal to-night, but, owing
to pleasing financial circumstances here and
in Sydney, the season has been extended until
Harry Lauder as a Horse-Kiltie.
further notice. The intense seriousness of
“Madame X.” is a timely relief from the
frivolity which prevails in Showland. The
poor morphia-maniac, who flies to ether for
refreshment, is a growing attraction. People
who have sighs to heave go and heave them
at the Royal, where the sad case of Miss
Muriel Starr provides a feast of sorrow and
a flow of weep. At Her Majesty’s the cry
is still “Come Over Here.” Nobody responds
to the invitation with any idea of feeling sad.
The Revue is officially declared to contain
“everythine but dull moments,” and perhaps
this is true in the ordinary way. All the
same, a dull moment is likely to get there
by accident, like a hairpin in hash.
“What Happened to Mary” would deserve
all the encouragement it could get at Mel-
bourne King’s if the heroine’s long-lost
mother (Mrs. Winthrop) were fitted with
a nice,, kind, musical voice, and the imper-
sonators of Mrs. Gibbs and Billy Peart had
a larger fund of histrionic talent to draw
upon. Billy is perhaps the most inefficient
item in a patchy cast. His manner of try-
ing to intimidate Mary makes The Bulletin
more sorry for the comedy-drama than Mrs.
Winthrop’s grating accents or Mrs. Gibbs’s
method of expressing her feelings re the new
boarder. The play is worth an adequate
performance all round, notwithstanding the
incredible audacity of Mary’s simplicity, and
the tacit suggestion that her sweetness, neat-
ness and mental culture are due to her having
been born of wealthy New York parents.
Although her adventures begin with the ab-
surdity of Cap’n Bert Bailey shipping her
to the Yankee capital from a primitive island
of oysters with only 20dol. in her pocket and
innocence in her heart, and in spite of the
crude melodramatic composition of her
troubles, Mary is interesting. Her fictitious-
ness tickles one’s fancy, until the infatua-
tion of lawyer Willis for the wondrous young
woman seems the most natural thing in the
world Miss Elwyn Harvey, Guy Hastings
and Bailey do quite admirably in their pre-
sent situations. Miss Oakley 'is equal tb the
character of the typiste who went astray;
Duggan and Bellairs are less equal to their
jobs, and the verdict on some of the others
is unfit for publication. Fred Macdonald, as
an oyster dredger, comes in with the two or
three who may be exempted from bad lan-
guage, but are not exonerated from blame.
To-night (Thursday) Alexander Watson,
the dramatic monoiogist who hit Melbourne
very hard on its headpiece a year or more
ago, will make his reappearance at the
Athenaeum Hall. For the first time in these
latitudes Watson will recite John Masefield’s
poem, “The Everlasting Mercy.” On Friday
he repeats his remarkable recitation of the
Dotheboys Hall portions of “Nicholas Nic-
kleby.” Saturday is a Kipling night, and
next week he will open his tins of potted
Shakspeare and feed the hungry with “Mac-
beth” and other matters. The Melbourne
nights of Alexander Watson are numbered,
with a view to touring dates.
* * * *
On Saturday the Repertory Co. will have
a night out at St. Peter’s Hall, Melbourne.
Supporters of Australian drama are desired
to gather to the first production of “The
Image Breaker,” by Alfred Buchanan. The
3-act play will be preceded by “La Femme
Riante,” also for the first time, and any
person wishing to be present can get there
for 2s. fid. The charge for “gods” is only a
shilling.
Ellen Terry is to eventuate at Melbourne
Town Hall in Thursday, May 7. She comes
under contract to the London Entertainment
Syndicate, with Blascheck in charge of the
tour. Her engagement is for 30 appearances
in all at sundry places, and she takes no risk
in the matter, the stipulated thousands of
golden goblins having been placed to her
credit in London. The nature of her enter-
tainment can be left for newspaper inter-
viewers to reveal after she has come to land.
Meanwhile the box plan is preparing to burst
open, and prices are fixed at 10s. fid., ss. and
3s.
“Hearts Adrift” was reeled off at West’s
Palace, Melbourne, last week. It is rather
on the giddy side. A single lady and
married gent., dumped by Fate and ship-
wreck on a lonely isle, keep house in a cave.
Complications ensue when the hero’s real
wife appears on the scene. The amateur
missus, suspicioning that she is in the way,
projects herself and baby into the bowels
of a volcano. Thus all ends happily. The
spirited action of this admirable young
woman supplies a lesson to creditors, if
they could but read it aright. Next Satur-
day West is to render a full account of the
semi-religious spectacle, “The Miracle.” A
choir and an augmented orchestra will sup-
ply appropriate noises.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“O.K.”r Harry Lauder’s songs remind one again of
the simple fraudulency of Bobbie Burnsey versifying,
vvheiein “blow” and “away,” for instance, are made
to rhyme by converting them into “blaw” and
“awa’,” and “snow is “snaw” when required to
rhyme with “braw.” Lauder is the B. Burns of the
music-hall. He states in song that his bonnie Hieland
lassie is as sweet as the flowers in the dell, and if
you saw her you would fancy her yoursel’. It is
harmony, but it is not cricket, so to speak. If
Lauder had to liken his lassie to the flowers on the
shelf (and flowers often do bloom on a shelf) he
would restore the missing “f” to yourself, Anglo-
Scottish poetry being licensed to gang as you please.
By way of further illustrating the art of bringing
down a Scawtch ballad rhyme with your second barrel
I wish to suggest to Lauder a first verse of a pathetic
song about the Giddy Lassie o’ the Family:—
Fair Maggie McFarland, the joy of the hoose,
The hope of her puir mother’s hame,
Has gone far awa’. She is out on the loose
Wi’ other puir daughters o’ shame.
The bonnie canary, that warbled sae prood,
And brightened the hame wi’ its sang.
Is doon in the mouth and refuses its food
Since Maggie McFarland went wrang.
“Stargazer”: I like the morality of “Madame X,”
which 1 have just seen at Melbourne Royal. Madame,
comfortably married to a decent bloke, and possessed
of a little Willie, gets that tired feeling and goes
off with another after bright lights and the gay life.
Her second choice pegs out and Madame returns to
Louis, her husband, and pleads to be reinstated. if
she had sinned, she said, she was truly penitent.
Louis declines to take it on, and Madame rushes out
of the side entrance, and becomes a Bad Lot, with
the assistance of a low fellow, absinthe, morphia,
ether and cigarettes, her infamy only being relieved
bv her deep, motherly love for the Tittle Willie whom
she deserted when she first left 'home in search of
fireworks. Now the whole force of the drama is
directed against the dog of a husband who wouldn’t
take this woman back. He is held responsible foi
everything, just as if there was nothing for a woman
to do after rushing out of a side door but to lead a
Life of Sin. If Madame had made a decent living for
herself as a domestic servant, cook, laundress, house-
keeper, milliner, shop assistant, typist, nurse, gover-
ness, etc., there would have been nothing whatever to
reproach her husband for; but because she was no
good to begin with, and got worse as she went along,
Louis is considered an unmitigated hound. The world
is full of women who work honestly for a living.
Who or what is, or was, this “X ” female, that she
shouldn’t toil likewise? Was she so very Xtra?
“B.J.”: The Wowser has embedded his fangs in
the popular old pastime of “handies,” in so far as pic-
ture shows are concerned. He howled his views on
this question into the collective ear of the Melbourne
picture industry, the other day, and the industry gave
at the knees and said it would reform. And so, at
each house which fears its Wowser, a “spotter” now
makes a tour, at regular. intervals, and flashes an
electric torch along the rows of seats, to the great
discomfort of Percy and the blushful embarrassment
of Ermyntrude. An awkward problem for managers
is: How long will Percy pay to have his tenderest
moments made a matter for public illumination?
Alexander Watson, the dramatic monologist with
a fine memory, eloquent hands and impressive per-
sonality, is coming for a second Australian tour. He
opens it at Melbourne Athenaeum Hall this
evening, and will give a brief series of his own
potted Shakspeare plays. His first visit was to have
covered a lot of Australian ground, but all the time
he was not in Maoriland he was appearing and re-
appearing in Melbourne and Sydney. Adelaide, Bris-
bane and the West never saw the remarkable Watson.
Phis tour is designed to supply the want.
“Cove”: Governor Strickland (N.S.W.) says 1 the
Wowser is Mrs. Grundy’s husband. That’s the
brightest spark of wit ever emitted by an Australian
Governor. Mrs. Grundy was invented by Thomas
Morton, dramatist, in his comedy of “Speed the
Plough, ’ over a century ago. Farmer Ashfield’s wife
is always inquiring, “Oh, what will Mrs. Grundy
® a / ? ,„ She is the vic F’ s wife - When “Speed the
Plough was new, audiences waited impatientlv ,for
Mrs. Grundy, but Morton had created such a Frank-
enstein that he was positively afraid that his powers
would not run to her introduction. So she never
came. However, novelists and dramatists have since
been plentiful in adumbrations of her. She can be
traced under various names in Dickens, Thackeray
and Bulwer. Trollope more boldly seizes on her, and
she is promoted into the Bishop’s wife, his well-
drawn Mrs. Proudie.. He heard a reader say, “Bother
vr r !l, P ™ udl f ! ’ and straightway slew her. But
Mother Grundy, with uplifted gingham, is Immortal!
n i ie T„P 1 5 y announced for production in London ’is
called Bad Company.” One or two Australian
managers will hasten to secure this if only from force
of habit. Some companies are very bad.
The Manchester (England) .Guardian, a
paper which is said to have (races of common
sense behind its ear, has been making re-
marks about stamps. It says that George
v - 1S an enthusiastic stamp-collector, and
that he likes variety and artistic ideas in
stamps, and is dead weary of the stodgy
loyalists,” who will put his own badly-
printed countenance on everything. Inci-
dentally it remarks that the Australian
stamp, showing a red kangaroo on a white
ground, was a pleasing novelty and a good
advertisement. It doesn’t say that the Lib-
eral person who is replacing it by the King’s
skull is a sodden ass who is only fit to be
director of the picture gallery at One Horse
<julch, but it seems to hint in that direc-
tion.
a T , he °A n i y do ? that ever wrote a book is
dead. After the passing out of Ed. VII
some comic sycophant rushed out a volume
allegedly by the monarch’s canine, entitled
V here s Master?” As a dog’s effort it was
good, but as a man’s it didn’t amount to
much. Now the dog is no more.
The N.S.W. Chambers of Commerce have
been holding a conference in Sydney. Hav-
ing assembled in solemn form the delegates
began to discuss the business paper, and in
the preliminary gallop got through the fol-
lowing business:—
(1) Ate a good dinner.
ni ar i! if f d a mo j ion that the mai n roads in the
state be put in order at once.
wherl That the farmers build feezing works every-
nn$ duplication of railways be stopped, and
ports north and south of Sydney be opened.
(5) ail hnes be duplicated.
atebi Tllat ad authorised railways be built immedi-
,, C) That the fishing industry be equipped all alone
the coast in an up-to-date, manner.
(8) That the Northern river bars be dredged to a
great depth.
(9) That a complete irrigation scheme be carried
out now.
JOSEPH AND POTIPHAR'S FLAPPER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Counsel (to Constable Vindin) : Did you flirt with
the girls?—No.
Did you kiss them or put your arm round them ?
No.
Oh, sing of the bobby who never would kiss ;
Oh, sing of his scorning of amorous bliss ;
Oh, sing of the fun he will certainly miss
If this habit he’s finally pinned in.
He carries a name that's a nuisance to rhyme;
It comes from a Swedish or Muscovite clime;
But that doesn’t alter the glory sublime
Which glitters round Constable Vindin.
In youth every man’s an inflammable coot;
Ilis love is a blossom that quickly will shoot;
And sweet is the sound of the silvery lute
When Cupid is blowing the wind in ;
But men have existed who run from a girl;
We know about Joseph ; we know about Tearle;
And the Force takes a pride in a similar pearl
In the person of Constable Vindin .
Oh, sirens with wooing and wonderful eyes,
We most of us yield to the arts you devise;
But what can you do with a fellow who shies
From your ditty however it’s dinned in?
Your glances are lances that kill where they drop ;
Except when they fall on the face of a cop ;
On the visage of Constable Joseph John Hop,
In the person of Constable Vindin.
Now Potiphar’s wife, though a Warwick she were,
Quite vainly would languish and loosen her hair
To tempt the policemen of Sydney; for they’re
Above every impulse we’ve sinned in ;
Just like the young man in the biblical play,
They murmur, “You mustn’t,” and “Please go
away” ;
And a shining example is furnished to-day
In the conduct of Constable Vindin.
N.s.w.
L.


à
KEEN VALUES
in
MEN'S WINTER OVERCOATS*
However Severe the Weather
D.J. OVERCOATS
will keep you perfectly warm.
A large variety of well-cut, weatherproof
Overcoats is now being shown in our new
men’s clothing showrooms. We illustrate
one example:—
English Tweed Showerproof Overcoat, dark
and medium grey Venetian, also dark grey
with black stripes, unlined, full cut, long vent
at back.
Price
50|-
Sizes 3 to 10J, length 50 inches,
All Men’s Clothing sent Carriage Free throughout Australasia.
DAVID JONES LTD
Opp. G.P.O.*
SYDNEY.
Concentrated
Power
Pratt’s
Motor
Spirit
Society
PENFOLDS
WINES
The Mayor of Melbourne, the town clerk
and some colleagues or confederates were
moved last week to inspect an aged build-
ing that the City Architect had twice con-
demned, and had advised the council to
have destroyed. They decided, in effect, that
the architect didn’t know what he was talk-
ing about, and that the contraption was an
ornament to the city. That night it shifted
itself bodily towards a vacant block along-
side that was about to be built on, and
would most likely have flopped down into the
basement excavations had it not been shored
up. Then the architect took the mayor by the
hair of his bald spot, so to speak, and led
him to the scene, and asked him what he
thought of himself. The unhappy potentate
was too shocked to reply. Instead he sprinted
back to the town hall and issued the order
of condemnation. Rarely does such as occa-
sion arise to show the depths of aldermanic
ineptitude and arrogance; but meanwhile
the owner is allowed, by law, 14 days to
decide what he will do with his property,
and anything may happen in the way of
ruin and sudden death. Rejoicings are
therefore out of place.
“0.C.C.” writes: —
The acquittal of St-arclilield in the Cold Country
in rather peculiar circs., practically on the plea that
the witnesses for the Crown were unconsciously biassed
in their identification of Starchfield as the supposed
murderer of his little son (whose body was found in
a railway carriage on the Underground, London),
because the witnesses had seen newspaper photos,
and alleged pictures of the prisoner, and, therefore,
were naturally ready to swear almost anything about
any man at all resembling those photos., reminds
me of a story told years ago by a prominent Aus-
tralian.
He, with two others, had gone to Lords to see a
Test Match, somewhere in the early ’Bo’s, when
Murdoch, Spofforth & Co. were raising J. Bull’s hair
in the cricket field. It was a sultry summer day,
and the heat most oppressive. The trio had donned
white duck suits, as befitted good Australians in
such weather, and they made their way to the
shilling seats in the hope of discovering a few more
from Down Under who might be prepared to cheer on
the Australian XI. Their dazzling white ducks
were received by the crowd in no friendly spirit,
possibly because they were too ostentatiously clean
for the murky City of Dreadful Fogt .
Remarks as to the bakers having a holiday, and
similar ’Arry-like witticisms were slung at the
Three White Australians. These were followed by
the apple-core of sheer cheek and the orange-peel of
dashed familiarity.
One of the Australians was a mighty fighter in
amateur circles, always ready (and able) to resent
any insult effectively. His blood was at boiling-
point, but a row was averted by the relator of the
yarn, who after trying vainly for some time to spot
one or two of the actual throwers, at last caught a
man in the very act. He was a rabbit-faced indi-
vidual with large protruding eyes and no chin
visible, and he was at that glad stage when he
began to think himself almost a celebrity.
The relator of the yarn happened to turn at the very
moment when this apparition stood with a piece of
orange in his hand in the act to throw. “Why it’s
you!” he shouted, at the same time pointing a finger
at the man. Stayed in the throw, the fellow stared
back. “Why,” yelled the Australian, “how did you
get out of Hell, Lefroy?”
That settled it. Not a week before, the notorious
Lefroy had been “swung off” by Marwood, and not
a man in the Three Kingdoms didn’t know all about
the case. The crowd looked, saw the indubitable and
startling likeness, and murmurs broke out all round.
The fellow slunk away. Had Lefroy not been caught,
but tried on the French system, in absentia, the crowd
thinking it recognised the real criminal from the pic-
tures it had seen —the unconscious impression it had
received —would have lynched that gallant orange-peel
thrower. There is a moral in the yarn somewhere.
* *■ * *
A Port Pirie (S.A.) man has been sueing
a girl, whose engagement to him was broken
off, for return of furniture and effects he
had given her—to keep for their future
home, he said (and it sounds reasonable) ;
as an absolute gift, she said. The lawyers
were astonished, and uneasy, on finding that
no reported cases seem to provide the prece-
dent they love to cling to, and the S.M. said
he must rule that a gift of an article, accom-
panied by delivery of it, is a gift, and can’t
be withdrawn at will (or, as in this case,
at ill-will). Nothing much was said about
the frame of mind of the girl who would
cling to the gifts, without having the man ;
but it is possible to think a lot.
WHAT NEXT?
OLD LADY VISITOR (praising friend's cockatoo): “Oh! What a beautiful bird. Can
he talk?"
COCKATOO: “Well, damme, that's good! Do you think I'm stuffed?"
CAUSE AND WANT OF EFFECT.
“I hear, Miss Impecune, that you have, the viator craze”
“Yes. That is, I have the craze, but I'm sorry to say that I haven’t the motor."
“Whitehall”: Lord Alfred Douglas and his
entourage are in trouble again in England.
The latest charge against Douglas and his
former business-associate, Crosiand, is the
unpleasant one of having conspired to black-
mail Robert Ross. They are a lady-like lot,
suggestive of a breath from the Chelsea of
the early ’9o’s, or, alternatively, a gust
from a rank old cellar. Douglas and Cros-
iand ran the Academy for some years. Under
their guidance it became a peevish rag,
wherein all and sundry who didn’t happen
to be friends of the editors were soundly
castigated in the intensely genteel tone of
voice that a perfect suburban lady uses while
rebuking her cook. This was Douglas. Cros-
iand —author of “The Awful Englishman,”
“The Unspeakable Irishman,” “The Asinine
American” and other works of the same
order—has a meatier style. Ross was one of
Oscar Wilde’s closest friends. He went to
see Wilde in gaol. Subsequently he wrote
deploring the influence of Douglas on Wilde
—the “beauty” of Douglas was alleged to
have swayed the unhappy genius to an in-
ordinate extent. This set always referred to
the beauty of the various members of it,
even when the fair ones were well on _in
years. When they weren’t beautiful, which
was very, very seldom, they were either
“dear,” “sweet” or “perfectly charming.”
Douglas got annoyed and said that Ross had
misrepresented things in an absolutely horrid
fashion, and was a cat, pure and simple.
About this time Ross got into trouble with
his wife; and Douglas got into worse trouble
with his father-in-law. (a. bluff, military
person who had been living in a semi-stunned
state ever since Douglas entered the
family), and Crosiand became involved in a
libel suit. The members of the Wilde set
resemble old maids, of the stale, embittered
type, in many respects. They are always
ready to see slights and insults where none
are meant; and to row hysterically on the
least provocation. Also they gossip wildly,
and have tempestuous disputes with one
another, or with any stranger who enters
their circle; and when the matter is ad-
justed, and often when it isn’t, they make it
up, and start all over again. Australia is
fortunate, inasmuch as it has developed no
freaks of this sort up to date —or, at any
rate, not enough of them to be noticeable.
They are unsightly to look at, and of no
value to anyone but the lawyers and the
rouge-vendors.
An Adelaide law-court was almost frozen
with horror, t’other day, at an outrage on
its dignity. Some goods had been claimed
from a woman by a stranger, who said her
husband had sold them to him. The hus-
band said so too, but she claimed that he
had given them to her before he and she
separated. The Court believed her, and the
husband saw himself faced with a prospect
of refunding the other chap’s money. He
stepped across suddenly, and slapped his
lawful wife good and hard and very often
before any astonished officials could fall on
him. He was hustled across to the police-
court, where the only thing his lawyer could
put up was the forlorn plea that the assault
was quite an “open” one. That was just the
trouble. It was so open that denial was
impossible, and there was also the Court’s
bashed dignity to be considered. It was two
months without the option—two days for
the injured wife and 59 days for the bashed
dignity.
* * * *
The Royal Victorian Nurses’ Association
held a special meeting the other day, and
decided that the time was “inopportune for
the taking of a referendum regarding an
increase in nurses’ fees.” The meeting was,
of course, thoroughly unrepresentative. To
argue differently were tantamount to accus-
ing the Victorian nurses of being wrong in
the head. Victoria is one of the few remain-
ing places in Australasia which continues
to pay its nurses the starvation wage of two
guineas per week. Elsewhere the young
woman who attends to the community’s fev-
ered brow, and so forth, is paid a minimum
of three guineas. And little enough it is
when one takes into consideration the job she
has to hold up. The nurse is liable to be
kept going for about 20 hours in the 24. She
has a lot of mental as well as physical strain
to endure. Slie runs a constant risk of in-
fection. And she has to perform, as a mat-
ter of course, many of the duties of a gen-
eral servant. Dr. Clubbe, of Sydney, knew
what he was talking about when he said, a
couple of days ago, that “the first thing
nurses must learn was self-denial and self-
control.” The doctor didn’t mean _ his re-
marks to be taken as an argument in favor
of better pay for nurses, bul* unquestionably,
life on 6s. per diem calls for such self-
mastery and asceticism as seldom appears
outside a convent cell.
A RONDEAU OF HER QUEENLINESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Thou art a Queen,” so ran my lay—
“A Queen of Faery, tricksv-gay,
And shouldst thou weave a charm for me
And bring me spellbound to thy knee,
How sweet would be thy gentle sway!”
And so it proved, till one dear day
I hought a ring of ruby ray,
And cried: “My own —it bindeth thee
(thou art a Queen!”
Flqw by the hours of merry May,
The Moon of Honey passed away,
And now, indeed, I plain can see
How true mine ancient melodic,
For still in sooth my lips can say
“Thou art a Quean!”
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


PURIFIED PETROLEUM AS A HEALING
REMEDY FOR DIGESTIVE DISORDERS.
The value of purified petroleum as a healing
remedy for digestive and bowel disorders is
now universally recognised. Unlike animal
or vegetable oils, petroleum passes through
the stomach unchanged, hence its soothing,
lubricating, disinfectant action is exercised
throughout the entire alimentary tract. To
obtain the best results from petroleum, it
should be administered in the form of an
emulsion. In this form, the petroleum is
broken up into minute globules which mingle
freely with the contents of the stomach
and are thus evenly distributed throughout
the digestive area, where the'r soothing,
healing powers are exerted to the fullest
extent.
The original and standard preparation of
petroleum for internal use is Angier’s Emul-
sion, which has been largely employed by the
medical profession ever since 1892. The
petroleum in Angier’s Emulsion is purified by
a special process and combined with the
hypophosphites of lime and soda in the form
of a perfect Emulsion that is pleasant to the
palate and acceptable to the most delicate
stomach.
Apart from its soothing, healing properties
Angier’s Emulsion (because of the hypo-
phosphites which it contains) exerts a marked
tonic, invigorating influence, which makes it
of value in a wide variety of disorders. The
medical profession prescribe it extensively not
only for lung troubles and wasting diseases,
but even more largely for gastric catarrh,
gastric ulcer, mucous colitis, nervous dys-
pepsia, chronic constipation and in many
obscure digestive and bowel disorders. Of all
chemists at 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d.. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
Q
A GOOD LIGHT OVERCOAT.
This distinctive garment will appeal to those who want a coat that
is not too heavy. It is admirably finished and drapes neatly,
having all the appearance of a specially-tailored coat. It is easy-
fitting, with neat, comfortable Raglan shoulders, gauntlet cuffs,
long-roll lapels, side pockets, fly front and silk-lined sleeves. The
Raglan shoulders conform quickly to the figure.
It is thoroughly showerproof—the material being specially treated
for the purpose. One of the most stylish coats produced for this
season.
In medium brown Whipcord.
Please state height when ordering.
84/-
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street —-Sydney.
“W’lang” : The holy folk who participated
in the Methodist Quarterly Meeting at
Rutherglen (Vic.) have, of a verity, earned
the umbrella that is awarded to them that
are the absolute Dead Limit. So compla-
cent were they with the Universe, and so
blandly satisfied, that each several one of
them was It that they passed a hearty vote
of thanks to God !
HE GOT IT JUST THE SAME.
“That man we upset at the last turn seems
pretty mad. Shall Igo over and apologise
to him?"
“Certainly not % That's my husband. I'll
give him a good talking to when I get
him home."
NOT UNDERSTOOD
OLD HAND: “Duffer?"
NEWCHUM : “ Who are you callin' names, yer old blighter. I'll take an give ver one
acrost the jore."
“John-P.”: Auckland (M.L.) is sheltering
something hovel in the parson line at pre-
sent. His name is the Rev. Jasper Calder,
and he pilots one of the Churches of Eng-
land in the boastful city. He has been at-
tacking the Wowsers in great style of late,
and has been preaching a series of refreshing
sermons on racing and sport generally. To
the utter joy of sports and all sensible
people, he has laid down the dictum that it
isn’t a sin to have a
bit on the tote if you
can afford it. This is
glad news. The sport-
ing parson frankly ad-
mits that he goes to
races and enjoys them.
He knows the points
of a horse with the
best, is reputed to be
able to pick the win-
ners occasionally, and
declares weekly from
the pulpit, to ever-
increasing congrega-
tions, that he has no
time for the wowsers
and parsons who rave
about alleged evils
they don’t understand
and have never seen.
The Church has been
holding meetings over
the sporting parson
and has been trying
to find cause to chuck him out of
the holy profession, but, to the horror
of the kill-joys, it finds the deed can’t be
done. According to latest reports this
novelty in the parson line has bought a
fleet-footed trotter with the intention of
racing it. If that prad only manages to flee
past the post pursued by a £l4 dividend
there will be more joy in Maoriland than if
the great lOU was redeemed.
* * * *
The unluckiness of the s.s. Dunmore, of
Sydney, is paralleled, or nearly so, by the
awful misfortunateness of the boat which
capsized in Port Phillip Bay on Good Friday
and dropped five men into D. Jones’s locker.
This lethal craft turned bottom up near
Frankston two years ago and left the popu-
lation two short. And only three months
ago it somersaulted near Williamstown, and
just missed slaying all aboard. A passer-by
who encountered it on the beach, after its
latest outbreak, delivered the verdict of the
public on the marine assassin, in no hesitant
manner. He drove a rock clean through the
calamity.
“0.K.”: The revolver has a terrible lot
of murders to answer for. It was with one
of four bullets from her little gun that the
French lady actually killed the Paris news-
paper editor the other week. Armed with
an old-time pistol or two (she could hardly
have concealed a pair of ’em in her muff)
Madame would not have had Buckley’s
chance of doing the deed so easily. True,
there were double-barrelled pistols as far
back as the old flint-lock days. A beautiful
specimen, said to have been found beside a
deceased oflicah on the field of Waterloo, is
now the pride of Arthur Russell, the Mel-
bourne dentist, who makes a hobby of col-
lecting ancient firearms. But this double-
barrelled, muzzle-loaded, hand-cocked, flint-
locked pistol was a slow, uncertain weapon
for murdering purposes, as compared with a
six-chambered breechloaded revolver. Even
the more modern duelling pistol, fired by
means of a percussion cap on a nipple, could
only be warranted to kill at close quarters
when the shot-at person got no time to
argue with the long barrel and the cap duly
exploded under the hammer, which was not
a certainty. Nor did the shot-at person,
unless he was dead, wait for the shooter to
reload and repeat the performance. The
revolving cylinder was an old idea, revived
in a practical form by Colonel Colt, the.
Yankee. Colt’s improved means of blood-'
shed was made possible by the percussion
cap, and the cap was really the outcome of
a patented invention which improved upon
the flint-lock. The patentee of the priming
pan that pointed the way to the cap and
nipple improvement was a Scotch- parson.
So the responsibility for all the easy mur-
ders accomplished by up-to-date revolver
shooters and riflemen can be traced in a
direct line of succession to an Auld Kirk
meenister named Forsyth.
* * * *
Italy, like every other country, is full of
spinsters anxious to get married to any man,
especially if he calls himself by a title. A
sham Italian count, living in Rome, appears
to have been corresponding with hundreds
of “Society” girls on the strength of his
advts. for a wife. He picked his marks
from among them, and easily persuaded one
dupe after another to hand him her jewellery,
or steal a bit of mother’s and give it to him.
They had all been lately educated in a con-
vent, and they all wrote love letters to the
wicked impostor. He had merely said in
his advts: “Woo me, girls, I’m full of matri-
monial intentions,” or words to that effect.
Isn’t it time that old-fashioned literature
and the drama ceased to depict lovely woman
as a shrinking violet who dodges under the
leaves when Gussie stoops to pluck her from
the parent stem, or as a startled fawn who
flies from the hunter? Also, isn’t it time
that the Australian damsel’s imported grand-
mother stopped shuddering at her lack of
Old World reticence? Perhaps woman was
formerly a slave to man-made tradition
(although Shakspeare’s nicest heroines were
not much built that way), but now she is
emancipated, and any bloke who wants hun-
dreds of her needs only to signify the same
by holding up the right advt. Among the
letters which the police found in the Italian
“count’s” yooms was one from a princess.
Her Royal Shyness was among the “also
rans.”
* * * *
One of the little colliers that hurry up and
down the N.S.W. coast showing a remarkably
small streak of freeboard struck trouble very
suddenly last Thursday night, when it ran
into a sudden blow oft Sydney Heads. After
a memorable tossing about a giant sea
swooped aboard, tore a bunker cover off,
poured down through the coal, put out the
fires and choked the pumps. But the little
steamer that could steam no more was still
in luck —the wind was blowing it away from
the cliffs, and, with all hands bar the captain
bailing with buckets, it drifted south all night
and most of the next day, until the engineers
got the works going again. Once during the
dark hours it was within a mile of the rocks,
but managed to claw off. The tug that had
been sent out to search by the owners was
met on the way to port. The incident is
remindful of the drowning of the Huddart
Parker steamer Alert, years ago, while com-
ing from Lakes Entrance to Melbourne. The
Alert sat very low in the water, and when
the big seas of the Strait had filled up its
engine-room its company had to start for
the shore on any trifles they could grab.
Ponting, the ship’s cook, was the only soul
who eventually got ashore alive. He was
found with his mouth half full of sand on the
back beach at Sorrento by two lady visitors,
one of whom was actress Eugenie Duggan.
Somebody who knew a story when he heard
it made a little book out of Ponting’s hours
in the water, and it was a fine dramatic
narrative full of flying scud.
* * * *
“Norbell” : The hoot of “Night Owl” anent
the scandalous pay of the humbler grade
of sky-pilots (B. 9/4/T4), is a just hoot.
The wages of a country parson is not
exactly, death, but it is semi-starvation,
which is rather worse. One instance: The
Anglican rector of a Western (N.S.W.)
town solemnly assured me (the other day,
that the stipend handed to him for his first
three months’ services was £3 10s.! And he
has a wife and children. Had it not been
for gifts of mutton, potatoes, and so on,
from a sympathetic squatter, he and his
would have had to beg, steal, or give up the
ghost. He ministers in a fine, large church,
to a well-to-do, God-fearing congregation,
but the average plate-returns are too paltry
to even mention. My view is that the
country clergy should join the A.W.U. I
presume they are eligible for the Shearers’
Union, under the sub-head of Shepherds.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF SEX.
“She's frightfully gone on you, isn't she?"
"Why, how do you know?"
“She told me you were an awful waster, and
advised me to have nothing to do with
you. ”
CAT-O’-NINE-TAILS MARCH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Berlin, Monday Evening.
The Left Party in the Reichstag is making a strong
protest against the Army Orders in respect of punish-
ments in East Africa.
Under these orders it i-s stated native soldiers wear
chains when on march, and are bound when in camp.
Officers are empowered to inflict 50 lashes on native
soldiers for offences, and non-commissioned officers
may inflict 25 lashes.— Surprising Cable Item.
We are the Death-or-Glory Boys—Perhaps!
We are the Kaiser’s Kaffir Fusiliers !
We are marching—marching—marching on the maps
Which the Vaterlander hails with hearty cheers—
(And lager-biers !)
Left — left! Left — right — left!
’Tis thus the course of Empire takes its way;
We’re the Death-or-Glory chaps,
And we’re sure to fight—perhaps!
If they’ll only let us live another day.
Oh, sweet it is and beautiful to die
For the German Fatherland far oversea !
We are yearning—yearning—yearning just to try
What it’s like—if they would only let us free—
(How glad we’d be!)
Left — left! Left — right — left!
In spite of chains we shuffle through the sand ;
Though our action chains may cramp
We’ll be easier in camp,
Where we’re only bound with cords, you understand !
The enemy hides yonder o’er the hill—
The enemy’s our father and our son !
And he’s shooting—shooting—shooting just to kill—
Ach Ilimmel! we are chained, and cannot run !
(Or use our gun!)
Left — left! Left — right — left!
The sergeant wields his sjambok fast and free,
But we’re dropping left and right—
. How in blazes can we fight
When we’re chained—and Captain Schmidt has lost
the key?
The soldier’s life’s a gay and splendid thing,
And warfare is one long and joyous spree
When you’re halting—halting—halting in a string,
Unable to advance, or fight, or flee 1
(Don’t you agree?)
Left — left! Left — right — left- — Halt !
Captain Schmidt is tearing up the sand !
And the Colonel is in tears —-
But the Kaffir Fusiliers
Will die to save the dear old Fatherland !
{Perhaps !)
N.S.W.
CORPORAL NYM.


Last week a circular was issued by
order of tho Council of the Victorian;
Grocers’ Association. It reads 'as fol-
lows:
■‘REVISED RETAIL PRICE LIST.
“The attention of members and the
grocery trade generally is drawn to the,
following retail price list, which has!
been revised- and approved of by the'
V.G.A. Council, in order to meet the:
increased demands made by the intro-]
duction of tbe new award."
It. is now some weeks since the Vic-
torian Boot and Shoe . Manufacturers*
Association unanimously agreed: “That
in consequence of the increases in the •
prices of leather and material, an imme-
diate corresponding advance is neces-
sary in the prices of boots and shoes." ‘
As to the City Council it was like one
of tbe rocks Jbi the ocean. The waves
dashed against it, but it proved impreg-
nable. (Laughter.) He thought it
would long continue to cxist._.
á
"Rock
iye ° Ce^
Is there something more in this thaii
even the prejudice against. Australian
goods? Why does the Council pay 4s.
dd. per gallon for oil which can be pur-
chased for Is. fld.? The question be-
comes urgent when we consider that
capable experts—men whose opinion m
the matter is unchallengeable—have de-
clared both to be of precisely the same
quality. __
_ y t/orK*r* >
I s - Pliiloy>|>W :V4ll,*t e*K~±-tf!r»j3* n cc on * o'boot s
d , wi ll no N e f
*' : -And never bay 170 beer
tne. grocery s We, .
Tiov/." J
A\oKe oil^
fa,tW):-" WW“i u% e
c.he&|> AustVaj[i'a>i oil ? I so.
s«sides \izd nev«r on i fidf."
Sir Henry Galway, Governor-
designate of South Australia, re-
ferred enthusiastically to Sir
Ronald C. Munro-Perguson, Gov-
ernor-General-designate of Aus-
tralia. “He is a flue man person-
ally, and 1 am sure he will bo
popular. He is so keen that he
says he will stay in Australia for
flye years without going home.”
yoMn^ VJja^
s*W K«W C.C»<?oii7P‘+o
ser/e f«H -term f-
His Es: -" W» jov't'
7- A fs~ * ! y 0 Are
m»’ou < ye*
"Nobody could have seen the privy
cession that morning without being,'
’ convinced that Bendigo was a patri- y
! otic city, and the way they had drunk;
• the King’s health showed that therey
was nothing amiss with their lm-
perial patriotism. 1
_
\ .« '~* 5- e . ,T W tl 9‘7%, K^iofem
lm He not been drinKiwg «;ov>>«cli a,l Comrvtes,
W ® hBVe our own Mnie Minister of
&srsrsiss«*u:
» majority 1 0/00“ "'"C' Cwk^T''
,o-J:zTz^r c nor honor **■«
Rale^
dv Y’ule.r'.
of-
fovfe.r
DREAMS PROM MELBOURNE.


The news came that the enemy
was advancing in overwhelming
force. In the dim, grey, sodden
dawn the Australian Wowser
Regiment pushed to the front.
The battle was mismanaged from
the first. The Australian Dago Regi-
ment, left unsupported, fought like
Romans, and perished.
The Australian Larrikin Regiment,
owing to confusion at headquarters,
received its orders too late. Still, the
charge it made was something to be
remembered.
The Australian Hebrew Regiment
put up a very good defensive fight
just as it did at Jerusalem long ago.
The artist just remembered that,
in this rush of “ national regiments,”
he quite forgot the plain, ordinary
Australian. There isn’t much room
left for him.
The Chinese-Australian Regiment
failed badly.
WHEN THE WAR CAME.
The idea of foreign “national regiments” (Scotch, Irish, etc.), which was adopted by the Cook Ministry in 1914,
spread rapidly. When the war came along in 1920 there was quite a number of these regiments.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINSCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS.
For
QUALITY.
For
DURABILITY.
NABOB BOOT PASTE,,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP k
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS 3c. WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney, [i
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
LUX
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
L,ux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens . the
life of the clothes.
r
t •
Hi
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LCVER -BROTHERS
LIMITED. SVDNeV.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“U.S.” writes: —
The will of the widow of Robert Louis Stevenson
is peculiar. Her first husband, Osbourne, was a San
Francisco newspaper reporter. He disappeared
utterly, and was supposed by friends to have gone to
South Africa. Stevenson met the deserted lady in
Europe, and followed her to America. He left her
about £20,000 in value. She bequeaths it to her
KWEI CHIH (Maori-
land's new Chinese
Consul), who is going
to reform the Chinese
of the Dominion.
daughter, Mrs.
Strong, Stevenson’s
amanuensis in the
writing of “Weir
of H e r m is to n.”
Mrs. S. is to give
her brother, Lloyd
Osbourne, 500 dol-
lars a month. The
peculiar clause of
the will is a refer-
ence to his divorced
wife. Widow Ste-
venson describes
her as a slanderous
woman of incred-
ible ferocity, and
leaves her five dol-
lars —a shade over
One Quid. There
is no limit to slan-
der in wills. If
you can’t get level
with your enemy
in life you can, in
your testamentary
disposition, leave
Is. to “that bigam-
ist, embezzler and
wife-beater, John
Smith, he to enjoy
the interest derived
from the legacy
during his life, and
on his decease the
principal to go to
his cross-eyed daugh-
ter with large feet,
E m m eline” — or
words to that
effect. But there
is a movement to
suppress this beau-
ful liberty of tes-
tamentary disposi-
tion by annulling
libellous wills and
prosecuting the
solicitors who
draw them.
Cameron, the Tasmanian politician, has
put up his third record. The first time was
when parties were so evenly divided in the
Federal House of Reps, that one vote
would turn the scale, and Cameron turned
the limelight on himself by being The One.
The second time was when he did the same
thing as a Tasmanian State member. The
third effort happened the other day when he
prosecuted a girl for disobedience under the
Master and Servant Act. He had ordered
her to eat dripping, and not consume the
butter of Solomon on a lordly dish, and the
girl ate the cow-grease with defiance and
bread.
A woman writer on racing is a novelty,
but Mrs. (Dr.) O’Leary was given two
columns in t-he Mail (Adelaide) on the eve
of the Oakbank meeting. She began by an
interview with secretary Yon Doussa, and a
plea for the S.P.C.A., of which she is local
hon. sec. Then, warming to the work, she
ran through the principal runners and their
chances, and finished with careful tips for
the whole programme, picking four winners
and a second in seven races.
This extract is from the “Political and
Official Biography of Members of Parlia-
ment” (Year Book of Australia) :
Henley, Thomas, M.L.A., Burwood, August, 1904 ;
September, 1907 ; October, 1910. Alderman of Drum-
moyne 14 years. Mayor six years. Amalgamated the
municipal districts of Drummoyne and Five Dock into
one municipality in 1902. Member of the Metro-
politan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, 1902, to
date. Member of the City Council, December, 1902,
to December, 1906. Member of the Municipal Asso-
ciation of N.S.W., 1902-3-4. Trustee of ltodd Islapd.
Commissioner for N.S.W. at Franco-British Exhibi-
tion, London, 1908.
You put a heap of small, piffling “honors”
together and you make a Henley.
LOVE, S.M., SYDNEY.
The late Admiral Rawson has been bio-
graphed. He is alleged to have been a bril-
liant amateur actor in his early days. This
may explain his selection as Governor of
N. S. Wales. The actor’s art is invaluable
in the case of a Governor. There is a story
in the book of a backblocks mayor who thus
proposed the ancient mariner’s health:
“Gentlemen, we have had a good many Gov-
ernors in N.S.W., but we have never had
such a hearty, uncouth old sea-dog as Sir
Harry Rawson.”
“Melb” : The recent fuss about Latrobe’s
old house brought into public notice one
Smithers Gadd. He organised the somewhat
ridiculous demonstration. Queer how many
men get the right names. Look at the late
Judkins. It may well have been that when
Gadd’s horoscope was being cast someone in
authority said, “Call him Montmorency
Plantagenet.” “No,” said a wiser being,
“Smithers Gadd.” And in due course the
subject of their discussion became Smithers
Gadd. The thing was inevitable.
Prince Alfred College, one of Adelaide’s
biggest schools, with a Wesleyan tinge about
it, has just settled on a new headmaster, a
thing it has not had to do for 40 years.
Frederic Chappie will complete his 39th year
next Christmas, and spend his 40th on leave.
The new choice is W. R. Bayly, who, start-
ing very young, put in 20 years there as a
master, and was second-in-command when,
about live years back, he was made Head of
Geelong College. The appointment looks
like being immensely popular among the. Old
Boys, who have a voice in the management.
A Maorilander famous in Britain, but
about whom little is known in his native land,
is W. Phillips Barrett, one of the best-known
designers and engravers of book-plates in the
land where the loans come from. He is a
native of Christchurch. He went Fogwards
many years ago, and started designing book-
plates, as well as engraving them. Now he
is looked upon as the leading man in that
line. His work is remarkable for its deli-
cacy of design and its marvellously beautiful
execution. A French expert considers that
it is equal to that of Albert Durer, which is
certainly saying something. Barrett designed
the Coronation Prayer Book for Edward
Seven, and did ditto for George Five. Also,
he has designed and engraved book-plates for
Queen Mary, Queen Alexandra, Queen Maud
of Norway, and the Prince of Wales; besides
receiving commissions from many paler
lights in the social world and from quite a
multitude of novelists and literary blokes
generally.
“B. J,”; Piddington, of the Interstate
Commission, sems to be striving nowadays
to achieve a reputation as a humorist. He
interrupts with debilitated jests, which are
received by witnesses and officials with duti-
ful guffaws, and are duly dressed and labelled
for newspaper consumption. Piddington in-
spires respect as a cross-examiner, but as a
jester he is a depressing circumstance. And
only a very fine jape is justified when 400
applications for alteration of duties are wait-
ing in the Commission’s pigeon-holes, and
others are falling with thuds into its letter-
box.
“ Jeames”: The Duchess d’Aosta, who is
in Sydney at the time of writing, w&s thte
most beautiful of European royalties Wh.eh
I first saw her at St. Motile iff thb SwisS
Engadine some 20 years Ago.. * e ‘
member what a hottibH shock it was to my
loyalty when I <cotap&red her appearance to
that of our present Queen —then the Prin-
cess May. They used to go to mass together
in the little church down in the Bad near
the lake, being great friends of the old
priest who ran that institution, and I, in
common with the rest of the visitors, to the
town, got an excellent chance of judging
between them as they worshipped in a front
stall or pew or whatever one may call it.
The figure of the Princess was dreadful;
that of the Duchess well-nigh perfect. The
former looked chronically irritated; the
latter incorrigibly cheery and good-hlimored.
The Princess was the last wol'd in dowdi-
ness ; the Duchess the smartest thing imag-
inable; and so on. She (the Duchess) had
been exiled to St. Moritz, in a manner of
speaking. Her offence was the unforgiv-
able one in Royal circles in those days, of
having persistently ridden a bicycle. The
King of Italy urged her to. destroy the
shocking innovation. She, being a spirited
young woman, said that she would leave
the Court first, and presently did so. The
Duke d’Abruzzi, who was here half a dozen
years, or more, ago, is a cousin of hers;
also, she is an Orleans, and like so many
of that family, was born in England. I see
by the papers that she was unable to get
into the Australia Hotel, owing to the race
crowd, and was driven in the end to refuge
in a boarding-house. This is probably the
first case on record of a solvent Royal
Duchess inhabiting a hash-tower.
“Yarra” : I had just finished reading about
the Waterside Workers’ new award of Is. 9d.
an hour, and the more or less honest rage of
the steamship company directors over Hig-
gins’s irresponsible and disinterested extrava-
gance, when I turned my newspaper inside
out and read that some young couple (one of
them a close relation of a rich shipowner)
had gone off on a 12-months’ honeymoon. It
reminded me of the wharf-manager’s story of
how Bill Cargosling (one of his best. and most
reliable men) approached him sheepishly, one
morning when there was no boat in, and
mumbled: “Say, boss, could yer lend us ’arf-
a-crown till ter-night, when th’ boat comes
in? I got married this mornin’, an’ I’d like
ter take th’ missus ter Manly f’r th’ after-
noon fer a bit of an ’oneymoon.” He wasn’t
going to Rome and Venice and Florence to
view the masterpieces of Italian art. He
had cut the Alps and the castled Rhine out
of his programme. Bill just going
honeymooning to Manly on 2 j. Gd.
ELLEN TERRY UP-TO-DATE.
“B. J.”: According to a Victorian country
paper: “Evidence was given that on two
occasions respondent had visited a house of
ill-flame.” Really this way of putting it
seems as good as any other.
Two fishermen hauling in a net somew
down near Corner Inlet (Vic.) on a thir y
day last month landed a case of wh is J
tact. The case had been long in the wa ,
but the goods were good, and a mighty sp
arose in that vicinity. _ After all, it
mere vanity calling spirits from the y
deep.
Commissioner
of Railways
SMITH ,
Tasmania.
“Hawker”: Have just solved A mastery
that has annoyed me for quite a while.
Travelling round an outer suburb of Mel-
bourne I collided with a new, ornate villa
in the latest Queen Anniest style, the gate
of which bore the statement, in hammered
copper, “Emoh Ruo,” which, being inter-
preted, is “Our Home.” This kind of desig-
nation on a house mostly indicates a stodgy,
infertile habit of thought; consequently,
where money is obviously plentiful, as
in this case, one does good business.
Happening along again a few weeks later, I
was disappointed to notice the gate wearing
a new brass plate inscribed “Holyrood,”
but as the same family dwelt there and .busi-
ness continued good, I concluded they had
had a slight accession of wisdom, though
there was no necessity to thus advertise
their Scottish origin. But when next I
passed the place the brass plate had been
replaced by a neat slab of polished jarrah,
on which was the word “Arundel.” The
same family, consisting as far as I could
gather of parents and several adult sons
and daughters, most of whom toiled in the
city, judging from the number of bikes and
motor-bikes on the premises, still occupied
the property, and have continued to do so
during the last 12 months. But every time
I pass a new name-plate adorns the gate —
East Lynne, Ivia Ora, and others, with an
occasional return to the original Emoh Kuo
and Holyrood. These everlasting changes
worried me, and as they must necessarily
harass the tradesmen, I commenced with
the baker. I learned that the property was
being bought through a building society, and
as every inmate had contributed towards the
deposit and was helping to keep up the pay-
ments, each considered he or she had as
good a right to give it his or her fancy name
as the next; also that the name displace-
ments always occurred of an evening, and
were accompanied by discussions, almost
amounting to riots. I remarked that the
better plan would be to leave the place
without any name, and apparently, since
then, the occupiers have reached the same
conclusion. There is now no plate of any
description to be seen, but as the gate has
also disappeared it looks as though the
argument has this time been more strenuous
than advantageous.
THE RAIN MAKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One J. C. Balsillie, a layman, is appearing as a
mighty rain-maker, having invented a. wireless con-
trivance with the aid of which he claims to be able
to call down rain on any part of Australia that needs
it. Patent applied for. Balsillie is a radio-tele-
graphic engineer, not an ordained clergyman, and his
intrusion into what is considered a celestial sphere is
resented by various ministers. One in Melbourne says
the claim of J. C. Balsillie “smacks of profanity.
Withhold your hand, 0 wretch profane,
Nor venture in with mortal tread
Where saints ordained alone should reign.
Their province is all over head.
To earthly business give your time.
All things celestial and sublime,
The clergy hold in strict reserve.
(Confound your nerve!)
Upon the wicked and the just,
Since Adam mapped his garden out,
The rain has fallen. So it must
Until the final, fiery rout,
Except the parson on his knee
Make rain in right conformity.
And would you thwart with carnal skill
High Heaven’s will?
The flood was sent to float the Ark
And punish human sin, in brief.
The drought is timed to-day to nark
The scoffer in his unbelief.
If earthly agent calls the shower
He straight usurps the awful power
Almightiness is sharing with
The Reverend Smith!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Vice Regal
AND
SMOKING MIXTURE
T INKS to his liking; an opponent who is a
good sport; a keenly contested game; and —
a supply of fine—flavoured “Vice-Regal” Smoking
Mixture or “ Vice-Regal ” Cigarettes. What more
could a golfer want ?
r
*-■
m
m
58 06
The FAMOUS
BRAND of
W. D. A H. O.
WILLS
SMOKING MIXTURE
Sold in loz. and 2oz. Air-tight Tins
Two Strengths—Medium and Full
CIGARETTES
In 6do Packets. Ivory Tips
THE LAST WORD IN
PIPES
â
£V ery p 'P e Quar^tee J


Hi * h ' ciass Woodworking Machinery § Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly lec us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BUCYRUS GO. MilwauKee
Steam Shovels, Drag Line Excavators.
Sole Agenta-WILLIAM ADAMS (Sl# COMPANY LIMITED,
- Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Pertb.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Queensland (Bris-
bane) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Be- Be-
Profits. Dividend Tax. -Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’05.. 9,896 34p.c.= 8,468 1428 37,420
June, ’06,. 10,016 34 „„ 8,468 1548 68,968
Dec., ’06.. 10,933 4 „ „ 9,711 1500 68,690
June, ’07.. 11,246 4 „„ 9,790 1456 70,146
Dec., ’07.. 12,026 4J ~,,11,162 1000 464 70,61*0
Mar., ’03.. 6,305 44 „„ 5,709 596 71,206
Sept., ’OB.. 12,768 44 ~,,11,597 1171 72,37-7
Mar., ’09.. 12,707 44 ~,,11,719 988 73,365
Sept.,’o9.. 12,826 44 ~,,11,864 962 74,327
Mar., ’lO.. 13,211 44 ~,,12,100 1111 75,438
Sept.,’lo.. 13,338 44 ~,,12,228 111*0 76,548
Mar., ’ll.. 15,137 5 ~,,13,740 100© 891 76,939
Sept,’ll.. 15,586 5 ~,,13,931 1500 155 77,094
Mar., ’12.. 15,969 5 ~,,14,156 1500 313 77,407
Sept.,’l2. . 15,857 5 ~,,14,260 1500 97 77,504
Mar., ’13.. 15,412 5 ~,,14,289 1500 77,137
Sept.,’l3.. 15,972 5 ~,,14,344 1628 78,755
Mar., T 4.. 16,965 5$ ~,,15,767 1198 79,953
The Royal of Queensland had no sensational cleaning
up in the year when the bottom fell out of almost
everything. It cleaned up a little, but in the main
it plodded, and relied on a steady writing off of the
dead horse when funds were available. Quite a con-
siderable amount is shown in the above table as
written off. The fact that the process has been sus-
pended for two successive half-years, despite an in-
crease in visible profits, and the fact that the divi-
dend has again been pushed up, suggests that the
trouble is about over. But the management would
have inspired, and deserved, a great deal more confi-
dence if it hadn’t pushed up the dividend. The
earnings represent about £5 2s. sd. p.c. p.a. on capi-
tal and reserves. On that basis the investments may
be absolutely sound, but the figure doesn’t suggest
that the Royal is doing a very profitable class of
business. It wants to grow if it is ever going to be
a great institution, and a lay-by of £ll9B isn’t any
growth worth mentioning. The reserves are humble,
and a new drought, or the failure of a loan, or even
a grasshopper plague of some magnitude, might make
a heap of trouble. 'The shares stand higher than they
were; still the last recorded sale for the ordinaries
( £6 10s. paid up) on the day of writing (Friday)
was £4 125., and there were buyers at £4 13s. 6d.
and sellers at £5. For a security which paid 54 p.c.
the quotation wasn’t too good, nor did it suggest a
wild excess of confidence. Perhaps a 4 p.c. dividend
and a much larger lay-by might have hurried up the
confidence.
Some more figures are as follows:
Profits Compared with Shareholders’ Funds.
Mar., 1910 £4 9 11 p.c. Sept., 1912 £5 2 4 p.c.
Sept., 1910 4 9 9 „ Mar., 1913 4 19 2 „
Mar., 1911 5 10,, Sept., 1913 5 2 5 „
Sept., 1911 5 2 2 „ Mar., 1914 5 2 5 „
Mar., 1912 5 3 10 „
And the following table shows how the business is
growing. The holding of liquid assets is solid. The
deposit and advance business is growing, and the
fact that premises have been written down (though
only by a trifle) is a good feature:—
Mar., Mar.,
1913. 1914.
Bills and notes. . £9,148 £18,299 Inc. £9,151
Deposits, etc. . . 1,503,894 1,617,238 Inc. 113,344
Liquid assets . . 709,304 781,300 Inc. 71,996-
Advances .. 1,366,393 1,420,735 Inc. 54,342
Premises .. .. 74,391 73,876 Dec. 515
The general verdict is that there is a good future
before the Royal Bank of Queensland if no unlooked-
for disaster strikes the State, and if the management,
subdues its hunger for increased dividends and other-
wise keeps as straight as it has done. The hunger
for increased dividends ought to be sat upon hard for
20 years.
* * * *
The disturbance between the Insurance
Office of. Aus. directors and shareholders isn’t
anything like settled yet. At the last meeting Allan
Taylor and E. H. Buchanan, two of the directors,
were so disgusted that they declined nomination, and
the two new directors were J. McLaughlin and E. V.
Saywell. Soon after the meeting chairman Arthur
Cocks also got full of it, and resigned. Now a big
body of the shareholders is trying to turn McLaughlin
and Saywell out, and are asking Taylor and Buchanan
to step back again, and at the same time requesting
Arthur Cocks to reconsider his resignation. It’s a
beautiful mess for a young insurance co. to be in, and
it isn’t likely to have a very cheerful effect on the
hunt after new business. It’s hard enough for the
infant fire insurance co. to pull through under the
best of circumstances, but all this internal row is a
terrible handicap.
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc., of
Queensland, who some years ago transferred £41,667
of reserves to capital (in the following table the div.
is calculated on the original amount, and the £41,667
is included with the reserves) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1901. . £26,165 16$ p.c. =£10,208 £15,957 £74,265
1902.. 28,496 18$ „ „ 11,229 17,267 91,532
1903.. 26,565 23$ „ „ 14,292 12,273 103,805
1904.. 23,435 25 ~ „ 15,313 8,122 111 927
1905.. 26,236 34 „ „ 21,000 5,236 117,163
1906.. 25,697 40 „ „ 24,500 1,197 118,360
1907. . 25,350 34 „ „ 21,000 4,350 122 710
1908.. 25,223 34 „ „ 21,000 4,223 126,933
1909.. 25,572 34 „ „ 21,000 4,572 131,505
1910.. 27,215 34 „ „ 21,000 6,215 137,720
1911.. 24,701 34 „ „ 21,000 3,701 141,421
1912.. 24,630 34 „ „ 21,000 3,630 145,051
Premiums on new shares .. 11,111 156 162
1913.. 22,516 21$ p.c. = 14,138 8,378 164’540
1914.. 25,114 26 „ „ 17,457 7,657 172,197
That looks a little better than for the past few
years, but still it is not up to what profits were 10
years ago, although since then £44,444 new money
has come into the business—£33,333 in capital, the
balance in premiums on the shares. Even though
Queensland is having a splendid time the profits are
not as large as they were for the few years following
the drought of 1903. The reason of course is that
of late years this eo. hasn’t been the only one inter-
ested in Queensland’s capacity for having another,
and the: Tiew competitors have been “going some ”
Perkins and Co. showed signs of being left behind;
so they had to do some bustling, and the new capital
got in went mainly In new beer-making machinery
Like a lot of other Queensland cos. Perkins’ found
themselves with more froth than beer when things
began to happen round about 1893. The result was
that the capital was severely written down. Even
then the prospect seemed so gloomy that the old co
handed its business over to a new one at an even
smaller capital of £52,000. But Queensland’s thirst
stuck to it, and the new co. began to celebrate it.
The result was that it paid away far too much in the
shape of dividends and didn’t put by enough. So
that when it was forced to do some extending it had
to get in new capital instead of being able to use its
own money. But even with the increased capital, it
continues to gather together a fine collection of
liabilities:—
1900. 1910. 1913. 1914.
Liabilities .. £12,492 £25,62' £65,108 £66,473
Freeholds, plant,
'etc 64,679 108,957 166,013 172,005
Stocks .. . . 32 301 41,738 61,961 59,432
Loans, book debts,
etc. .. .-. 31,324 71,364 90,689 99,600-
Cash balances . . 5,934 10,118 8,939 9,800
Profits on sales, etc. 36,135 38,862 40,490 49,079
General expenses.. 11,731 11,517 17,702 23-,6©*?
As will be seen, the new money went chiefly ifit'o
freeholds, plant, etc. —no doubt, most e>f it -plArft bha
beer-making implements. Gross profits 'on sales,
which were practically 'stationary fdr Some time show
a sudden jump to £49,*07-9, which is an increase
of £8589 for the year-, as compared with one of
£4355 from 190'0 tt» L 9-13. Evidently the competi-
tion has been doing the Company some good. General
expenses, unfortiinately, have joined in the upward
movement, and ha've more than doubled since 1910,
mainly, no doubt, on account of the hustling, and the
mixed item, “discounts, advertising, bad debts, office
and general expenses, etc.,” has leaped from £6405
to £13,327, but whether it was the bad debts or the
general exes, or merely the “etc.” that put on all the
Weight isn’t mentioned. The Public Thirst of Queens-
land is a profitable institution, and if Perkins and Co.
will only remember that you can’t eat your wife and
have her, and then keep their dividend within bounds,
the future should be bright.
* ■» * •
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) :
Writ- Added Nomi-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ i;
1901 .. 23,468 5 p.c. = 12,500 3,468 7500 22,615
1902 .. 22,506 5 „ „ 12,500 1,250 8756 31,371
1903 . . 13,752 5„ „ 12,500 750 502 31,873
1904 .. 12,935 5,, „ 12,500 750 31,558
1905 . . 12,913 21 „ „ 6,250 2,750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5 „ „ 12,500 2,750 2120 37,591
1907 .. 18,172 5 „ „ 12,500 2,750 2922 40,513
1908 . . 24,135 5 „ ~ 12,500 6,103 5532 46,045
1909 . . 17,551 5 „ „ 12,500 5,051 46,'045
1910 . . 25,072 5 „ „ 12,500 12,572 46,045
1911 . . 35,637 64 ~ ~ 15,625 16,057 3955 -60,000
1912 . . 46,277 74 „ „ 18,750 27,527 -- 50,000
1913 . . 50,968 74 „ „ 18,750 32,218 '50,000
1914 . . 55,953 10 „ „ 25,000 30,953 '50,000
The gross profits may be briefly described as gor-
geous, which is the case with many gross beer-profits.
But when £750 is written off leaseholds, and £6203
off plant an d rolling stock, -and £s*ooo off premises,
and £15,000 off that shadowy Item called “good-
will,” and £4OOO is allowed for wear and tear and
old age of freehold premises, there is nothing very
special in the business after all. This concern per-
sistently lumps in “goodwill,” which is a paper asset
pure and simple, and “leasehold properties,” which
are a wasting asset, and “etc.,” which may be any-
thing, with machinery and such-like visible items.
Out of assets alleged to be worth £635,681 no less
than £499,866 is called Freeholds, Leaseholds
(amount of wastage unknown), Machinery, Plant,
Rolling Stock, Goodwill (amount not specified), and
good old Etc. (no information about Etc.). Cash is
less than £6OOO, and the dividend will presumably
finish that. The £50,000 reserve is described as
“Freehold Depreciation Fund.” If the Goodwill and
the depreciation of freehold amount to more than
£50,000, this item is, of course, dead, and is re-
placed by a deficit. There ought to be a rigid, cast-
iron law to the effect that the exact amount of
Goodwill must be stated, and that the management
must supply a conscientious and detailed estimate re
the wastage of leaseholds. Also the' paper valuC-of
“Etc.” should be stated separately. Many a man has
gone down financially by reason of “Etc.,” he having
stepped on it and found it a delusive crust on top of
a. quicksand.
* * * *
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drus Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
dan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1903 ■! £14 > 941 7 p.c =£13,649' £1292 £20,056
'' I Premiums on shares issued .. 209 20,265
1904 -f 16 ’ 479 7 P- c = 13,683 £2OOO 796 21,061
" (Premiums on shares issued .. 17 21,078
1905.. 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 -! 16,250 7„ ~ 13,751 2499 25^357
'' I Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
l Depreciation account trans-
-1907.. •< ferred to general reserves .. 7851 33,382
( 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34,514
1908.. 17,816 7 „ „ 14,000 1600 2216 36,730
1909.. 16,962 7 „ „ 14,000 1000 1962 38,692
1910.. 16,707 7 „,, 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
1911.. 18,225 7 „,, 14,000 1500 2725' 42,788
191 9 j 19,191 7 „ „ 15,515 1500 2176 44,964
J " I Premiums on shares issued .. 3750 48,714
1913 \ 21,544 7 p.c. = 16,083' 2500 2961 51,675
‘‘ | Premiums on new shares .. 4375 56,050
1914.. 14,221 7 p.c. = 17,453 1275 5.1,543
During the year the co.’s Westfield works at Auck-
land were destroyed by fire, and the loss of £10,619
makes a big hole in the profits. However, the direc-
tors declare the usual 7 p.c. dividend, which on
account of the increased capital now calls for
£17,453, although the new capital did not receive
the dividend for the full 12 months. Next year
the 7 p.c. dividend will call for at least £lB,OOO.
Allowing, say, £l5OO for depreciation, this means
that the profits will have to be at least £19,500 to
barely pay the 7 p.c. Only once has the profit ex-
ceeded that figure, and that was for 1913. Even if
this profit were repeated (which it ought to be with
the increased capital) it would only leave, say,
£3500 for reserves and depreciation. Wherefore it
appears to this paper that a 7 p.c. for next year
can’t be relied on with any degree of certainty. Cer-
tainly no increase need be expected for a consider-
able time. This table will show how the financial
affairs have moved:—
1904. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Capital ... £195,477 £228,708 £230,000 £256,245 ’
Liabilities . . 46,004 59,599 61,851 50,985
Stock .. 140,729 165,677 173,402 186,693
Factories, etc. 86,590 111,908 115,539 101,489
Book debts . . 43,559 58,180 65,817 76,474
Cash, etc. .. 10,817 13,836 2,444 14,987
Stocks, of course, are very heavy, and moreover, are
divided among the co.’s numerous factories and
branches. That being so, it is a very simple matter
for their value to be over-estimated, and with stocks
worth £173,402 there is a good chance of an over-
estimation of anything up to several thousand pounds.
The difference would have to come off the reserves,
which would mean that in previous years the profits
had been over-stated; also there is the possibility
of stock being under-estimated, which is most likely
the case, and this would mean that reserves are really
more than are shown in the table. Gross profits for
the past year were £66,835 as compared with
£63,370 for the previous 12 months. Expenses during
the same periods were £42,333 and £42,376 re-
spectively, so that had the co. not had the misfortune
to make such a heavy loss on account of the fire the
year s figures would have been a record.
* * * *
J.E. (and others) : Can’t get any infor-
mation re the Brisbane Daily Standard. In refusing
a request for a balance-sheet the secretary replies:
“At the present time matters pertaining to the pur-
chase of the business of the Daily Standard are the
subject of arbitration.” Which mav be taken to
mean almost anything except something good. ,
The Uiiiloii Trustee Cc. (Melbourne) :
Invest-
ment
Ordinary Fluctu-
Re- ation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserve.
1901 .. £2722 34 p.c. = £2584 £946 £306
1902 . . 2886 4 „ „ 2953 879 1006
1903 .. 2848 4 „ „ 2953 774 314
1904 . . 3255 4 „ „ 2953 1,076 301
1905 . . 3427 44 „ „ 3322 1,181 332
1906 .. 3874 5 „ „ 3691 1,364 ,662
1907 .. 4931 5 ;, „ 3691 2,61)4 636
1908 . . 5737 5 ,* y, 3691 4,650 6C2
1.9.09. ... 480* 6. V, V, 3691 . 5,763 598
1910 4275 '64 „ 4060 5.978 628
1911 6332 6 „ „ 4429 7,881 684
1912 .. 5960 6 „ „ 4429 9,412 724
1913 .. 6499 6 „ „ 4429 11,482 698
1914 . . 6409 64 „ „ 4798 13,093 717
The Bulletin would have been m,ueh better pleased
had the directors stuck to the 6 p.c. dividend instead
of jumping up the rate, and put the excess to re-
serves, which are not too substantial, especially for a
trustee co. But unlike the newer trustee companies,
the Union has a very large paid capital of £73,822
in shares paid to £l. The authorised capital is
£250,000, but if the co. got into difficulties it is not
likely that the unissued shares would be rushed. Still
there is a liability of 10s. on each of the 73,822
shares, in addition'to a further liability of £1 per
share in the event of liquidation. That, of .cour'iA'i
is a handsome guarantee of the careful Iffin'dliVig of
trust estates. Naturally with go laigfe a capital, a
moderate dividend calls for A Ififge slice of the profits.
And too many people who are looking for their
trustee are i-nclindd to turn dowfi 'the Co. that shows
only moderate profits and a low 'dividend rate In
•favor of bfifi Mvhdse smaller capital enables it to pay
a g.auGy div., tHough the security 'is not nearly so
gbod. There is no questioning the Union Trustees’
ScfcuTity, for a very considerable Portion of its funds
is represented ! by 'Government stocks, which, though
they don’t give a very fat return, are perfectly safe.
This table shows that, and other details:—
1896. 1011. 1912. 1913. 1914.
liabilities .. £132 £9,235 £722 £65 £l3l
Public securities 32,667 33,288 33,286 32,758 32,769
Mortgages . . 32,451 8,692 2,369 2,21 d 2,162
Freehold .. 27,632 49,938 44,474 44,474
Deposits, 'Cash-,
etc. . . -.-. 19,944 23,806 9,885 8,341 10,950
Thus, Of a capital of £73,822 and reserves of £13,093
ho loss than £32,760 is in Government securities and
£44,474 is in premises. So it is no wonder the co.’s
income is not very large. Good progress has been
made in getting rid of the mass of mortgages that
the co. was smothered in, and now the item is reduced
to only £2162. About seven years ago the chairman
announced that the trust estates in hand amounted to
something over £2,000,000. Then interest, rent and
commission amounted to £11,003 ; now they amount to
£15,396. But no mention has been made within
recent years of the trust estates, although, judging
by the growth of commission, etc., it would be of
great' advantage to the co. to publish complete figures.
The day of the private trustee is passing, and in the
competition the co. that can inspire the most confi-
dence will get the business. The best way to inspire
trust is to show to what extent you are trusted.
* * * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.)
. Net To Re- Re-
Prbfits. Dividends. serves, serves.
-July, 1905 ..£4BOO 12 p.c. = £4050 £750 £6-5,257
Jan., 1906 . . 4455 12 „ „ 4050 405 65,062
July, 1906 .. 4112 12 „ „ 4050 92 65,724
Jan., 1907 .. 4376 12 „ „ 4050 -326 .66,050
July, 1907 .. 3971 12 „ „ 4050 65,971
'Jan.,l9oB .. 3680 12 „ „ 4056 -■=- 65,601
July, 1908 . . 3413 10 „ „ 3375 38 65,639
Jan., 1909 . . 4019 10 „ >, 3375 644 66,283
July, 1909 . . 2319 10 „ „ 3375 . 65,227
Jan., 1910 . . 4425 10 „ 3375 1050 66,277
July, 1910 . . 3304 10 „ „ 3375 66,206
Jan., 1911 . . 4586 12 „ „ 4050 536 66,742
July, 1911 . . 3473 12 „ „ 4050 66,165
Jan., 1912 .. 4642 12 „ „ 4050 592 66,757
July, 1912 .. 3466 12 „ „ 4050 66,173
Jan., 1913 .. 5520 12 „ „ 4050 1470 67,643
July, 1913 .. 4730 12 „ „ 4050 680 68,323
Jan., 1914 .. 5347 12 „ „ 4050 1297 69,620
Seeing that the lay-by -during the 17 preceding half-
years was £3B (once), £62 (once), less than nothing
(six times), and hot very much (every other time
save once), the position may be regarded as satisfac-
tory—for the Ballarat Gas Co. That is to say it
is a better dog than it was, but it doesn’t necessarily
follow that it is much of a lion. Before last year
you could have skated down the reserve column and
hardly felt a bump. A few years ago the co. would
have paid anything up to 16 p.c. on the present profits,
but now it seems to remember the reserves, which
consequently get their share. The co. stored away
a pretty considerable tank of assets before that table
was started. That was when Ballarat was a goldfield
which really possessed gold. Then Ballarat became
a goldfield with no gold worth mentioning. And sev-
eral yearsbacka competitor happened along. So the gas
co., which had been lying wide awake on its bed in the
early morning about noon, and dreaming in the dark-
ness that it was fast asleep, saw a ghost and sat up.
It reduced the price of its substance, and steadied the
rate of dividend. This table shows the result of the
policy of dividing every ayailable penny:—
Jan., 1904. Jan., 1914.
Liquid assets .. £20,725 £24,246
Liabilities .. .. 768 790
Surplus . . • • £19,957 £23,456
Thus in 10 years the co. has scattered so much in
the shape of dividends that, after making any neces-
sary renewals, etc« it has put only £3499 back into
the business. Though the profit has looked up a bit
this year, there is no positive proof that it will stay
up. If it doesn’t, the 12, p.c. looks in danger. Sales
of gas have moved from £10,510 at Jan., 1913, to
£11,550 for the past six months. It seems pretty cer-
tain that the bigger Victorian gas cos. will soon come
under an Act somewhat similar to the N.S.W. Gas
Act. Perhaps it is with this in view that the co.
is putting something by, and not sky-rocketing the
dividend rate.
Some of the fuss about increased prices and
the increased cost of living in Australia is based, not
on actual fact, but on the vague recollections of the
oldest inhabitant, and the indistinct ideas of the
young housewife who remembers that her mother
believed things were different when she was young.
The statistics are never up to date, for it takes a
long time to compile them, but so far as they go they
have a certain interest. Thus the price of bread in
Sydney was the same in 1870 and in 1911. Meat cost
more in 1902 than in 1911. Butter has dropped in
price during the last 40 years. Cheese has gone up
on the whole, yet it was cheaper in 1911 than in
1902. Sugar and tea are both cheaper than they wete
in 1870. Potatoes have gone up on the whole, but
they reached the summit in 1905-6, and have since
shown a decline. But during the past two years
prices have certainly stiffened. -One reason why meat
is going to be dearer is the decline in Australia’s
stock of meat-producing animals. The number of
thickly-peopled countries which want imported meat
is increasing fast. The number of thinly-peopled
countries with a surplus of meat for sale is diminish-
ing fast. Australia had 10,000,000 less sheep in 1912
than in 1911; also 300,000 fewer pigs; and its sup-
ply of cattle declined by about 250,000. And as the
local meat-eating population increased the struggle
for the blood-stained variety of food naturally became
more intense. Yet —and this is another aspect of the
case—the meat has to be exported even if it is selling
in London for 6d. per lb., and this country is paying
Is. 6d. per lb. for its morning chop. Australia has
acquired a vast mass of foreign debt, and it has to
export the interest somehow. N.S.W. is the worst
case, and by reason-of its persistent foreign borrowing
it grows worse still. Something like £6,000,000 a
year has to go to Europe from the Ma State in golu,
silver, tin, lead, beef, hides, wool and sundries, unless
the poor old State is to strike a financial crash of no
ordinary size. One reason why the sheep and bullocks
and pigs are less numerous is that the foreign debt
is becoming more abundant, owing to the frantic
desire to build temporary and unproductive works
with Cohen’s money. Many a pig that might hg.ye
made a good cheap breakfast fof, an Australian JJWS
to London to pay a Hebrew’s interest bill. And thef?
the Australian breakfasts ttiorfe scantily find at a
gV'eatly inci-eased figure, on such scarce and dimin-
ished pig as is left.
* * * *
The Ipswich Gas and Coke Co. (Queens-
land) :
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
1910 .. £1869 10 p.c. = £l2OO £669 £5537
1911 .. 2181 10 „ „ 1200 981 6618
1912 .. 2417 10 „ „ 1700 717 /23a
1913 .. 2020 10 ~ „ 2000 20 7255
1914 . . 3102 10 „ „ 2000 1102 8357
The co. had been doing a lot of extension work, and
this year’s largely increased profit is the result. The
capital now stands at £24,000 (less £6 of unpaid
calls), but apparently the new money hasn t yet
shared in any dividend. When it dpeS, the 10„p.Cj
will call for £2400, so .that .utUes's, the profits Hibw.fi
considerable,, imprOWshient,-, that; :,,ip P-d. Wjwß ’
'dawet, Thfe Co.’s financial position, too, has some-
Mil strengthened:— , > no i
. . . , 1912. 1913. 1914.
Liquid assets .'. £6666 £2023 £3279
Liabilities. ,
Debentures .. !1500 1500
Sundries .. 672 611 739
Surplus . . £4494 £2540
Deficiency .. £B2 —-
The big difference is, of course', duetto several .circum-
stances: tfie £l5OO pf debentures have been paid pi|.
and last ydar a. large amouiit went opt in, my»leiil.
for the new, works.. , Gab bale's), sho.ri a fine increase o*
froWi £Bs6(i to £9760 f<ir thb IB months. If thlH
VnOVebi'ent boh t! hues, find if the shareholders tread
b'ri the first One who suggests anything in the shape
of an increased dividend there shouldn’t be much
danger ahead.
* * * *
The Melbourne branch of the St. Pat-
rick’s Society, which is a benefit institution, seems
to have put up a new and dazzling record in down-
at-heels finance. The private tomb was opened when
the auditors appointed by the members declined to
go on with the audit for 1913. The secretary, it
appears, had been ill, and the books had not been
written up; so the committee thought it a fair thing
to hire an outside professional man to take off his
coat and do things. After getting his hair and
linen well inked, the worried investigator produced a
report which alleged that St. Patrick had a discre-
pancy of £509 16s. 9d. in his cash-book, and that,
through having no reliable register of members the
society had apparently been paying allowances for
members who had been off the books for years;
that there was no record of those members \Vhtt should
be paying subscriptions-. Wbfit fijjui-fes weren t miss-
ing seemed to, be mote 'dr mss incorrect, and “the
accounts Were iff ft. Stitfe ‘of chaos.” The cheerful St.
Patricks, on . being informed how things stood—or
leaned ,'dr fell down —had a long discussion, but
eventually a motion was carried that the highly
unsatisfactory report (or dilapidation) and balance-
sheet (or lopsidedness) be adopted. This despite me
ragirfg of a minority of more business-like Pats. It
was fi generous deed, and worthy of the. large,
kindly heart that grows fit Cork-, but it suggests that
some sort of skilled Government supervision Would
be good for such go-as-you-please benefit concerns.
If St. Pat himself refuses in lordly fashion to bother
his head about the way , the money goes, it. should
be done in the interests of Mrs. Pat and the childher.
* * * *
• The Darling Downs Building SoGIfM
(Toowoomba, Q.) ’ ,
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1900 .-. £476 5 p.c. = £330 £146 £203
1901 760 5 „ „ 463 297 500
1902 .-. 1,109 6 „ „ 821 288 788
1903 .. 1,354 6 „ „ 917 437 1225
1904 . . 1,545 6 „ „ 1,149 396 1621
1905 . . 2,284 6 „ „ 1,782 502 2123
1906 . . 3.012 6 „ „ 2,401 611 2734
1907 .. 4,023 6 „ „ 3,009 1014 3748
1908 .. 5,859 7 „ „ 4,844 1015 4763
1909 . . 6,935 7 „ „ 6,201 734 5497
1910 .. 8,114 7 „ „ 7,353 761 6258
1911 . . 10,422 7 „ „ 8,953 1469 7727
1912 .. 12,428 7 „ ~11,010 1418 9145
1913 . . 12,929 7 „ „ 12,327 602 9747
Profits for the past 12 months are only £5Ol in
excess of those for the previous year ; but the 7 p.c.
dividend calls for as much as £1317 more than in
1912. The result of course is that, through paying
the 7 p.c. dividend on the ever-increasing number of
shares, the reserves are being starved. Although the
profit for 1913 is the largest on record, the amount
added to reserves is the smallest since 1905. And
the reserves want every penny they can get. Ad-
vances are £202,362, as compared with £193,390
last year and £28,536 in 1903 ; so that, on present
advances, the reserves are no more than 4.8 p.c., and
it would require only a slight slump to knock 5 p.c.
off property values. To date the co. hasn’t met with
any losses, but still The Bulletin’s advice is to cut
down that 7 p.c. dividend and strengthen the reserves.
When a slump does happen along, it will be a case
of £5 of reserves being worth more than £5O that
have been distributed as dividends.
* * * *
As forecasted in B. 3/7/T3 the de-leading
process is making very rapid strides, so much so
that the Sulphide Corporation is reckoning on
about half a million in dividends from an
old slime dump, piled up 20 years ago.
The hard cash is being floated out of the slimes by
the new aeration process developed by Owen and
Mcßride. The Central, South and Amalgamated Zinc
(which owns the Australian rights to the patents
used) concentrated on the solution of the slimes
problem on the Owen-Mcßride lines, and the process
now in use on the Central mine is the result. A
duplicate of the Central plant will soon be running
on the Amalgamated Zinc. The actual result of the
process is, first, the selective flotation of the lead,
and afterwards of the zinc, in one continuous opera-
tion, which is so effective that it gives a 96 p.c. ex-
traction of the metal contents of the : slimes, and so
cheap that the old Central slimes dump is panning
out £2 per ton profit—and there are about a quarter
of a million tons there.
The slimes are first ground to a very fine powder,
which is run into a series of boxes side by side, where
air is introduced under pressure into the slush of
slimes and water. The blast of air cleans the tinv
grains of mineral. Assisted by oil and acid judi-
ciously introduced, an emulsion consisting of oil,
acid, water and fine lead is formed. This stuff, by
continuous aeration and agitation, becomes a mass of
black bubbles, which feels like a mass of soap bub-
bles. The lead in the slimy skin of the bubbles is
the stuff wanted, so all the bubbling mass is run off
into vats to settle down. Nearly all the lead is taken
out of the slimes by this operation. The rest of
the stuff then goes to the zinc boxes, where by similar
treatment the zinc is turned into bubbles, carrying
the remaining lead with it, which is afterwards
separated on shaking tables. The valueless residue
runs to form a new dump. What posterity will do
with the new dump when new ideas come along is a
question for the future.
The.separation of the lead particles first is appar-
ently due to the more rapid mixing of the lead with
the treatment liquid. It was this discovery that
really constitutes the invention of selective flotation.


BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must dear your land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly stumps all giye way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, that roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write:—
John Cooler 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
J f-\
All the
leading: Mines
and Workshops
in this Country use
DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING
GOODS
• Experience having proved that our Conveyorv^
Belts, Hoses, Packings, etc., have no y/
equal for Quality and Price.
Samples fit Tenders Submitted.
Lists.on. Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne. Sydney.
Adelaide. Perth. Brisbane
Wellington, Christchurcjy^
i\ s
j.
On which side of the ledger is your transmission
belting? I§ it on the profit side? Is it conserving
your profits: by keeping all your pulleys running at
full speed dvery minute, or is it only a half-time
worker and profit-maker? If it only works half-time
why do you put up with it? Any waste in business
is an economic sin, and the sooner rooted out the
better —the better for your profits. Let us send you
a length of “Pioneer” leather belting—let it bring
you your full quota of profits by its tight gripping
and non-slipping. “Pioneer” is doing this for thousands
of mine and plant owners. Way up North in the
sugar mills of Queensland and Fiji—out in the mines
at Broken Hill, and in the timber mills of Southern
Tasmania —thousands of feet of “Pioneer” are used.
Let your factory profit by their experience. Made
from the centre cuts of the strongest Australian
leather, which are oak-tanned in our tannery and
built up with best materials. Every foot of
“Pioneer” leather belting pulls, and we guarantee
to replace free of charge any length that fails
through defect in material or workmanship. Let us
send you prices and samples of “Pioneer”—it is
made only by J. C. LUDOWIOI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer Works, 117 York Street, Sydney. Sold in
Victoria by Geo. Russell Pty. Ltd., Flinders Street,
Melbourne; in South Australia by J. McKell, Timp-
son Street, Adelaide; in Queensland by Queensland
Machinery Co. Ltd., Brisbane; in W. Australia by
Horace H. Summer, Howard Street, Perth; in
Broken Hill by Geo. C. Dempster, Argent Street.*
* * * *
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. AVales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Go., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
* * 9 * *
Extract from The Insurance Record, London, Sep-
tember 22, 1911.—“ To have written insurances for
£5,550,000 (Ordinary, Industrial and Accident) in a
year which was marked by the keenest competition from
beginning to end is an achievement which proves that
the Colonial Mutual is a force to be reckoned with in
every sphere to which its influence extends.”*
*** * '
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is not only low in . first
cost, but is quite the easiest and quickest piping
to laj’’, as well as being the lightest for freight
charges. Catalogue from the AUSTRALIAN WOOL)
PIPE CO., LTD., 57 York Street, Svdney (Head
Office.)*
* * * *
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and
Towns Gas Engines: Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Maekay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two —each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing ; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
* * * *
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given On
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
CLAUDE BRISTOW, Assayer and Analytical
Chemist. Sampling supervised. 93 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydnej'.*
* * * #
11.M.A.5. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.* ' . •
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg AND Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to .1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.* ,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Mortobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Poldi Steel
'Phone
CITY—B 332.
171 Clarence Street, Sydney.
The principal feature of the treatment is the intensive
aeration of the material. The more intense the aera-
tion the greater the bubble-forming results, and the
bubbles, which are all sizes, from a marble to a tennis
ball, carry the minerals on the outside just as soap
bubbles carry the soap, and the minerals are recov-
ered in the form of mud.
This method of aerating the material under treat-
ment is something similar to the Lyster process, only
Lyster’s method is to entrap air in a centrifugal
pump, churn is up thoroughly and discharge it into
the box containing the material under treatment. The
sudden expansion effects the aeration and permits the
float. In the Owen-Mcßride method the air is in-
troduced from below, under well-controlled pressure,
and the aeration is obtained by the rapid revolution
of an agitation or “impeller” that churns up the
contents of the box at a terrible rate.
* * * *
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) news gets drearier
and drearier. When lOug stepped in, to represent 8., M.
and Co., a drastic scheme of reconstruction was pre-
pared. Shares were to be violently written down
from £5 to 255., and each share was to carry a
liability of 10s., by which means it was hoped to
raise £90,000 new working capital. Debentures,
which, like the shares, had badly swooped, were also
to be knocked about, a£loo debenture being changed
for one of £5O with a consolation prize of 40 shares
attached. Bellinger has now left for other climes, a
badly-disappointed man for whom this paper has
already expressed a certain amount of sympathy.
The new man, Hogan Taylor, formerly of Westralia,
has arrived to go on with the mournful business.
But, before he has had time to swallow a mouthful
of the Cobar dust and flies, a cable message announces
that the reconstruction scheme is off, and that the
debenture-holders have put in a receiver. Klug
advises that the underground workings are in a posi-
tively dangerous state, and that £35,000 will be
needed to set things even approximately right. It
makes one shudder to review the history of this most
Eainful concern. And at last the mines themselves
ave taken a hand. Months ago they-—that is, the
Cobar Copper, Chesney and Fort Bourke —began to
look very sick at depth, and very little hope is now
held out for their recovery. No further words are
needed to close the chapter.
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) issues to
shareholders an artistic production from the pen of
John Wooleock, not unknown around the Cobar dis-
trict. Reporting on the above-mentioned show,
Wooleock is not of the opinion that the N.S.W.
Mines Department’s low-level tunnel project, for
which a subsidy of £30,000 is held out, is worthy
of serious consideration. “Why it should be withheld
from a company who is doing the same work in a
different way is a puzzling injustice beyond all
human understanding.” The prospects in the deeper
ground are considered splendid, for, after all, what
gold-mining field worthy of the name in Australia
has not had its barren zones? The position at which
the Amalgamated has arrived is this: If there is gold
to ,, be discovered it must lie at a greater depth
than, the present workings. And, presumably, the
more barren the zone which the co. has just been
working the richer must be the zone beneath. The
co. is advised to go down and see, and crosscut the
veins every hundred feet. So an underlay shaft on
the Star of Peace veins, at a point 200 ft. north of
the main level, is to be sunk forthwith—subject to
the approval of the N.S.W. Prospecting Board.
Metalliferous mining in N.S.W., outside
Broken Hill, is getting to the stage of chilling even
the heart of an undertaker. So it is pleasant to read
Of developments such as the following, even if they
aren t exactly true. At Bangadang there is a mine
"“■t -l ust returned, from a trial crushing, 4oz.
15dwt. per ton. The crushing was taken out in bulk
from a width of sft., but the footwall has not yet
been reached. A Melbourne co. holds the option;
and its mining expert enthuses largely over the
prospects. The mine is opened up to 100 ft. in
depth, and gold is reported to be fairly evenly dis-
tributed throughout the ore body.
* * * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) is under partial
exemption from labor conditions. The co. has worked
out all the ground above water-level and only de-
velopment work is in progress. The hopes held out
concerning that small, spasmodic stringer, which was
always on the verge of something better, don’t seem
to have amounted to anything as yet. But this co.
has a knack of holding on to life, in which respect
it resembles the house cat, which is dead to-day and
has eaten all the breakfast meat to-morrow.
* * * *
Amalgamated Zinc (N.S.W.) has treated
1,773,040 tons of tailings since it began operations
in 1910. Dividend No. 15 of Is. per share ( £25,000)
payable next month makes the total £475,000; so
shareholders have received a trifle over ss. per ton
of tailings. For the six months to December, 1913,
253,225 tons treated gave a profit of £61,841, or
4s. lOd. per ton. As the Amalgamated handles over
500,000 tons a year its quarterly distribution of
Is. per share requires a net profit of 4s. per ton.
Profits at present (taking spelter at £2l) are about
£lO,OOO per month. Dividends would become pre-
carious if spelter fell to £l9 per ton for the annual
profit would be reduced by about £69,000, and
spelter has been known to slump £4 13s. 4d. in a
few months. The Amalganiated is entitled to 45
p.c. of the royalty on the Mineral Separation process,
so it may expect to receive a few thousands a year
from this source. There are 1,000,000 tons of tail-
ings on hand.
For the first quarter of this year Broken
Hill’s net return was £1,078,528. Assuming that
the 83,646 tons of lead concentrates returned an
average of 60 p.c., there was 50,187 tons of metal.
A field that can throw 50,000 tons of lead at the
market in three months must be one of the world’s
largest producers. The 109,175 tons of zinc con-
centrates exported are valued at £278,030, just over
50s. per ton, and they contained over 40,000 tons of
zinc. The silver runs to between two and three
million ounces per quarter. Last year Broken Hill
hauled 1,744,177 tons of ore, and five years at that
rate will use up 8,720,885 tons. Under these cir-
cumstances, big dividends are partly a return of
capital.
Hawkins Hill Reward (N.S.W.) caught
•on with the market, because No. 2 winze struck a
make of soz. stone Bft. below the level (320 ft.).
During March the most important work was the
■sinking of No. 1 winze, which is now down more
than 40ft., and 40 tons taken from this winze re-
turned 71oz. gold. A crushing from No. 2 winze
(100 ft. north of No. 1) should appear in the next
report. Both winzes are on improving prospects,
but a reef only 18in. wide requires to be fairly rich.
Some people have great expectations of an enrich-
ment when the north level gets further in. The
report merely remarks that the reef has increased in
■size, and shows fair dish prospects. Prospects were
run in east and west—2oft. each way—but nothing
payable was met with.
* * * *
Eleanora Gold Mines, Hillgrove
(N.S.W.), has once again resumed the hunt after
'Khe elusive--dividend, now that it has managed to
clean up some of the mess that was made at the
last reconstruction. The mess was mostly due to
the failure of certain estimates of capital cost to
re-timber the shaft, and remove and re-organise the
old plant. Last month the ore drawn from stopes
over a length of 150 ft. on a reef 3ft. wide was re-
ported to have averaged 30dwt. per ton. This reads
attractively enough, what there is of it, and that is
the question the co. is seeking to solve. The job of
resurrecting skeletons never was any sinecure, ex-
cept to the ancient prophets. And prophecy has not,
so far, been a strong feature of this co. Yet that
is a point in its favor. Hill End provided a similar
venture, but with different accompaniments and with
different results to date.
* * * *
Ardlethan Options, Amalgamated Hill
End and Pernatty Lake Copper are getting a bit
mixed up in their relations, to the extent that it
is impossible to throw a brick at one without in-
furiating the other two. The Ardlethan failure has
reached the stage whereat the directors have been
enabled to take shareholders into their confidence —
fortunate shareholders! The directors accordingly
announced that they had underwritten some of the
new issue of the Amalgamated. Prospects were so
bright that the fact of the price agreed upon being
well above the existing market price of the Amalga-
mated shares didn’t matter a bit. The managing-
director happens to be the same for both companies,
so some “inside information” was thus divulged. Then,
again, the same Ardlethan failure had a share in the
Pernatty scheme, and that £5O share had risen to
£5OO. This may be due either to scarcity of mar-
ket scrip or to genuine prospects. On the latter
score John Wooleock testifies to 150,000 tons, pro-
bably giving an average extraction of 5 per cent,
copper at a cost of one unit of copper, spread over a
lake bottom half a mile long, with a thickness of at
least sft. Then there is gold, and a whole heap of
probable ore not included in the estimate, some of
which, being bornite, proves beyond a doubt that the
deposit has a deep-seated origin.
If the suggested tonnages and values are
realised the Laloki (Papua) option should be a good
thing for Mount Morgan, as well as a lifebuoy and
a sheet-anchor for Fitzroy. 1< itzroy’s announcement
on the subject indicates that Mount Morgan takes
over the 2s. per ton royalty payable to the prospec-
tors. From Morgan shareholders’ point of view the
worst feature of the deal is the payment of further
large sums of money—£7s,ooo for the mine and,
presumably, a similar amount or even more on
development and equipment. But when they remem-
ber that Many Peaks ore won’t last for ever, and
that Laloki contains 4J p.c. copper and 3dwt. gold
against 1) copper and trace gold in Many Peaks
flux, they will probably be reconciled to the further
deferring of the much-talked-of increased dividends.
Fitzroy shareholders ought to be jubilant if the
option is exercised. It will probably mean scrapping
the concentrating mill and using the ore for, fluxing
the Laloki’s profit-giving material. The latter won’t
happen for probably two or three years, as the Port
Moresby-Sapphire Creek Railway, about 20 miles,
isn’t started yet.
Mount Elliott’s amalgamation with the
Great Australia (Cloncurry) is interesting. This old
show was famous a generation ago for its huge
nodules of native copper and rich oxides. How much
rich ore is left cannot be told, but latest smelt-
ing campaign in 1908 was productive of large quan-
tities of high-grade matte which was shipped south
for treatment. Smelting with reverbs, (supplied
with wood fuel) proved to be too expensive, so the
Queensland Exploration Co. —which worked the Great
Australia on a royalty basis —had to shut down.
The average extraction per ton of ore was 6 p.c.
copper. Caleite ore from the mine contained low
copper values, but proved to be a good flux. So
Cloncurry may be a good smelting base. The
Dobbin mine, which comes within the amalgamation
scheme, has also been a large producer of rich ore.
Altogether, there are 2900 acres of freehold and 425
acres of leasehold to be amalgamated.
The closing down of the copper smelters
at Chillagoe, Mount Elliott, Great Fitzroy, Mount
Perry and Great Cobar suggests trouble ahead for the
industry. In a general sense, costs are high, but it
doesn’t follow that wages are out of fair proportion
to the cost of living and the large profits derived
from the mining industry. In 1913 the value of
metals was unusually high, and lead, zinc and copper
mines paid their shareholders over £2,000,000 in
dividends. There was a keen demand for skilled
labor, and, under those circumstances, it was quite
natural for wages to rise. Still Australian wages are
not unreasonably high compared with United States
figures for underground work. Our wages are sel-
dom higher than they ought to be, but the adminis-
tration of our mineral resources could stand a lot
of improvement. Over-capitalisation, bad adminis-
tration and the sale of products in the unrefined or
semi-crude condition is a frequent source of trouble.
The wraith of departed metallurgist Wes-
ley haunts the great Mount Morgan (Queensland)
mine. The new management hankered after an iron-
stone campaign and forecasted big reductions in the
amount of Many Peaks flux ore required. Wesley
would have none of it, hence exit Wesley and enter
ironstone. The result is reflected in the recently-
issued Many Peaks report. The table of tonnages
there given shows a big reduction at the start of the
ironstone campaign (in one period to less than 2000
tons), but the figures have been rising latterly, and
the latest Mount Morgan four-weekly return shows
7364 tons of Many Peaks ore were used to smelt
19,144 tons of Mount Morgan ore. The ironstone
figures for the period are not stated. The 19,144
tons of Mount Morgan ore yielded 503 tons copper
and 62250 z. gold, equal to 2.65 p.c. copper and 6/
dwts. gold per ton. The actual assay value of the
ore depends on the slag losses, which are liable to be
high when ironstone is used. At any rate, it is cer-
tain the ore assayed over 3 per cent, of copper—so
that the ore being treated is still higher than the
average of the published reserves.
»*, * *
Bitumen and petroleum have been re-
cently reported from the Nullabor Plains, north of
the head of the Great Australian Bight. A prospect-
ing license over a couple of square miles surround-
ing the spot has been secured by the South Aus-
tralian Oil Wells Co. The alleged find may, of
course, turn out as many others have done, but each
year seems to be nearer a genuine discovery. At
one time it was reckoned that the known features of
the geological history of this continent did not point
to the existence of such conditions as were considered
favorable for the formation of petroleum. But
exactly what those conditions should have been is
a point that hasn’t been satisfactorily defined even
yet, so there is plenty of room to doubt the old doc-
trines. Papua was put under the same ban as Aus-
tralia, but recent events look like blowing the
bottom out of that idea. Most of the world’s supply
of petroleum comes from sedimentary rocks of the
Miocene and Eocene periods. Round the Bight these
formations are to be found in abundance.
* ♦ * *
The Victorian Treatment Co., a Westra-
lian concern which acquired for £15,000 or so
various sand and slime heaps from W. B. Wilkinson, a
Maryborough (Vic.) cyanider, and proceeded to dem-
onstrate the value of Westralian systems as applied to
Victorian dumps, recently retired hurt and submitted
its properties for sale by tender. The failure to attain
sufficiently payable results, coupled with the failure
of the fine vacuum filter plant erected with S.A. and
Westralian capital bn the Magdala slimes heap at
Stawell (Vic.), furnished another proof that after
all Vic. cyaniding methods, crude and primitive as
they may appear to experts who are used to modern
systems in vogue in the West, are really not so far
astray when applied to local goods. Experts from
both N.S.W. and the West who have visited Victoria
have expressed horror at the ignorance of the local
savages, and have proceeded to demonstrate what
modern methods can do. But the local savages con-
tinue to cyanide their 2s. extraction stuff when the
mighty ones have gone. Probably the fact is that
the stuff is savage as well as the people who treat it.
Burtville (W.A.) is hopeful that the re-
cent performances of the Nil Desperandum will direct
attention to its “long neglected gold resources.
The co.’s latest yield was 1116 oz. from 265
tons, not 116 oz. as was stated in B. 9/4/’l4.
Between 1897 and 1913 the show mentioned yielded
£33,700 from 4000 tons, the wealth coming from
narrow quartz leaders. Less than a year ago the
owners started sinking on a lode formation, and from
this 425 tons have since been extracted and treated
for a return of £7860. The bulk of the values are
contained in veins of quartz running vertically in a
big kaolin and ironstone formation, but whether they
will extend for any distance remains to be proved.
Some usually well-informed persons are inclined to
think they won’t.
Bullfinch Proprietary (W.A.) announces a
drop of from 51s. 9d. to 365. in the value of its
ore reserves compared with last year’s figures, while
the tonnage is down a little. The shrinkage in grade
is, presumably, due to the ore treated during the 12
months being of much richer grade than the average
of the mine, a fact which the management made no
attempt to conceal. Returns for some time to come
will probably be affected by the recent creep, and,
meanwhile, they have, vide last month’s output, been
brought down to 325. 3d. per ton. During 1913 a
proportion of sulphide ore was sent to the mill. In
October this amounted to 12 p.c. of the total quantity
treated during that period.
Randalls (W.A.) seems to be fulfilling
The Bulletin’s expectations. A crushing of 700
tons, handled by six men and a horse, has just been
put through the mill by the Government-subsidised
Santa Claus syndicate for a return by amalgamation
of £450, with an alleged additional £5OO on the
plates and in the residues. But £5OO is, as has been
said over and over again on this page, only £5OO
when it is in the bank or some other safe place.
Dump and plate values are never worth 20s. in the
£ —some do not average that many pence. The
next return is expected to be better, and steadfast
in that belief, one or two supporters of the field are
asking London to lend a helping financial hand. If
it does, it might just as well lean up against
the nearest lamp-post and wait to be struck by light-
ning as expect to get any return for its outlay. By
picking and choosing and getting monetary assist-
ance from the State the district may yield a few
fairly good returns, but it is only a matter of
time for the end to come and the crowd of sorrowful
mourners to gather round. As previously remarked,
when the history of the place comes to be written,
the local pub will have been found to have been
the only profitable investment.
* * * *
Principal Westralian results for March: —
Revenue. Profit. Value
Tonnage. £ £ per ton.
Great Boulder . . 18,789 47,834 26,584 50/11
Ivanhoe . . . . 7,041 17,177 2,577 48/9
Kalgurli .. . . 10,960 21,834 9,108 40/-
Bullfinch Prop. .. 6,198 9,997 4,803 32/3
Queen of the Hills.. 4,469 6,232 2,586 27/10
Oroya Links . . 12,230 13,342 1,704 21/9
Lake View and Star 18,668 21,483 3,601 23/-
South Kalgurli .. 9,832 11,237 1,205 22/10
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,519 20,981 3,100 31/-
Yuanmi .. .. 9,270 13,392 855 28/10
Boulder Perseverance 21,716 23,491 4,409 21/7
Mararoa .. .. 2,750 4,959 36/-
Golden Ridge .. 2,754 3,840 500 27/10
Commodore . . . . 800 1,644 422 41/1
Ida H 1,258 5,234 1,481 83/6
Lake View Consols 8,355* 1,206 72 2/10
North Kalgurli . . 644 1,900 59/-
Golden Butterfly .. 1,632 1,586 83 19/5
Kyarra . . . . 1,000 4,339 2,164 86/9
Menzies Consolidated 2,496 5,600 1,846 44/10
Corinthian North .. 4,008 3,896 f 19/5
Mountain Queen .. 3,704 3,268 610 17/8
Associated Northern 545 2,082 J —-
Loss.
Associated .. .. 10,684 11,185 362 20/11
Great Fingall .. 2,830 6,340 2,826 44/9
Marvel Loch.. .. 990§ 996 99 20/-
Golden Horseshoe .. 27,391 28,657 4,296 20/11
*old tailings, tlncludes revenue won from accumu-
lated tailings. JRevenue obtained from 545
tons of ore and 4965 tons of accumulated residues
treated at the Iron Duke lease, Kalgoorlie. The
expenditure on the Victorious leases, Ora Banda,
during the month was £2159. §Tonnage made up of
ore from Comet and Marvel Loch leases.
* * * *
Norseman (W.A.) is up in arms over the
threatened departure of the Mararoa. Local share-
holders demand (1) that the payable ore recently cut
by the drill at 300 ft. below the present workings of
the co.’s mine should be further prospected; (2)
that the co. spend all its surplus cash if necessary
on this work; and (3) that it look for something on
the spot, and not take its spare capital, and per-
haps later on the whole of its bag and baggage, to
another place.
* * * *
It is said in Adelaide that Pernatty
Lagoon Co. (S.A.) will be financed in this way by
Robinson, Clark and Co. of London. The capital
will be 300,000 shares of £l, of which the original
proprietors take 30,000 fully paid, and the pro-
moting syndicate 60,000 fully paid; 50,000 shares
are reserved to pay the above firm’s underwriting
commission and brokerage, and 160,000 underwritten
shares are offered to the public at 2s. on applica-
tion and 2s. on allotment, yielding £32,000. The
promoting syndicate was in 200 shares on which
£3 each was paid, or £6OO in all. So they will be
repaid a hundred-fold. The London underwriters
may or may not get 50.000 £1 shares for insuring
£32,000 cash. It looks like being chiefly “may
get.” The syndicate £3 shares went to over £4OO
apiece, which is a long .way ahead of the Bull-
finch deal, a similar one in every respect to this.
That is to say, Bullfinch and Pernatty are alike
because there was, and is, not enough ore visible
to justify the flotation figures in either case.
* * * *
An Adelaide syndicate has just started to
open up a seam of brown coal that was discovered a
dozen vears asm at Bower, where a Government bore
in search of water for railway purposes went through
a 42ft. seam at a denth of 342 ft. Bower, which is
85 miles from Adelaide, on the Morgan railway
line, has been noted for years as a base for the
supply of firewood, but as the supply is running out
the brown coal will be able to take its place in
the near future. A shaft 10ft. by 6ft. has been
started, and is going down at about 3ft. per day.
Captain W. O. Tennant, well known in Victorian
gold-mining circles, is at the head of affairs.
Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) is hatching
a scheme in the form of an amended sliding scale of
wages, depending on the price of copper. Standard
rate of pay is to be based on copper at £65, and
three rises of 5 p.c. each are to be given when
copper reaches £75, £35 and £95 per ton,


Under
Royal
Warrant
ä
To H.M.
Kins
George V
CHAMPAGNE
c hampackt
QjaiiesHeidsitffc
Reims
FARMER’S
HAIRDRESSING ROOMS
FOR LADIES.
Farmer’s Specialists in Ladies’ Hairdressing
are fully acquainted with the latest-style
coiffures, and their achievements in this par-
ticular branch are winning widespread renown.
The rooms ensure absolute privacy, and are
splendidly appointed with the most modern
devices. The various departments include
Hairdressing, Haircutting, Shampooing, Singe-
ing, Marcel Waving, Scalp and Face Massage,
Electric Treatment, Manicuring, Chiropody,
etc.
Appointments for social functions can be
made by ’phone or letter.
FARMER’S, Sydney
PITT, MARKET & GEORGE STREETS
BUCHANAN’S
Black (&L White.
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, April 20, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
G.-G. Denman and his tall lady put in the
tail of last week at Admiralty House, and
departed for the Falkiners’ sheep run in
this State on Sunday evening. Their flight
was more or less by stealth. Enthusiastic
friends and acquaintances stalked the Mel-
bourfae express after their Exes’ party had
been jolted out into the night. The news
that the Anglican Synod loaded the Den-
mans with an illuminated farewell address
(in spite of Sunday travelling) will be wel-
comed with tears by the incoming G.-G.
Munro-Ferguson. He will have to carry
about the Scotchbytei'ian forms of affection,
set in leather, as well.
Saturday’s races brought forth all the last
remarks in autumn goods. The ladies inside
them must have sweltered severely in secret,
for a warm wind fanned their heated brows,
and furs were as comfortable as horserugs in
sultry February.
The vice-regal pens were better filled than
on any other race day, and had the top-hatted
appearance that shadows the Gee-Gee during
his occasional peeps at this city. Lady Den-
man wore a thin, filmy gown that
matched the temperature, and watched
the flying hoofs of Cagou (who ran away
with the A.J.C. Plate) under the wide brim
of an imposing black hat. The Barttelot
lady, who grows slenderer and slenderer, was
in black, with the slash of grass green that
accompanies the rage for raven garb. Gov-
ernor Strickland brought his blue-eyed eldest
daughter along. Lady Patey, who has a
leaning towards millinery that shoots up a
long bow in front, was sandwiched in be-
tween the sub-royalties, with her Admiral
near by. !
Gee-Gee Denman, looking about 25, brought
to Sydney in his train the usual immaculate
Helps, who wear exactly the same kind of
bored expression, the same beautifully-oiled
locks, and the same manner of having been
turned out as mutes for a high-class funeral.
Captain Pollok, A.D.C., who is something of
a Stranger here, has this mournful appear-
ance of being martyred in his best London
clothes to such an acute degree that he paced
the Randwick lawn like a caged, top-hatted
Daniel waiting for the lions.
Mrs. Pat Osborne, in black on Saturday,
was heavily rugged in biscuit-colored furs
that would have gladdened the heart of a
Mrs. Esquimau.
The tall, impressive presence of Mrs. Claud
Macdonajd, of Wantabadgery station, was
like a watchtower of style in the fluffy pre-
cincts of the members’ stand at the recent
race meet. She is the lady who is always
having it cast up at her that she knows more
about the internal mysteries of majestic
clothes than most smart women, because she
once dabbled in the high-class dress business
in Melbourne.
The once popular fashion of dressing sis-
ters alike —or of sisters dressing themselves
alike, modern maidens being a law unto them-
selves—made an occasional revival in the
great Rag parade of last week. At Wednes-
day’s race meet two young damsels with
tunics in a kind of patchwork-quilt design,
over dark skirts, made the notion of doubling
a sartorial shriek merely a nuisance. Mrs.
Charlie Wade tactfully refrained from turn-
ing out her twin girleens in twin gowns dur-
ing the recent hubbub. And their appear-
ance only showed a discreet family likeness.
The tall Brennan sisters, Florence and
Adfele, went to Saturday’s races in fac-
simile starch white cloth tailor-mades, and
little black velvet hop-o’-my-thumb hats. They
didn’t stamp up and down the lawn like the
patchwork designs, so all is forgiven. By
this time I expect they both feel sorry. White
tailored garb promptly dusts every tram seat,
and has to be sent in disgrace to the cleaner
till it eats up a mint of dress allowance.
Mrs. Tom Rolin’s tall young daughter wore
one of the cosy crimson tailor-built affairs
(at Saturday’s races) that only need a little
white lettering to make them useful under-
studies to a G.R. letter-box. The coats have
snug little pockets (there’s a strong re-action
in woman’s breast for pockets in these bag-
snatching days) in which any absent-minded
man of learning could easily post a treatise
on sun-spots.
A German woolbuyer named Hilger, who
has been attracting the feminine glance at
the recent orgy of horse, is a fine, well-set-up
young Teuton, and understood to be still open
to engagement.
The Ralph Verneys have bustled back to
Sydney after a long spell in the damp Land
of the Cheap Breakfast Table and the under-
paid toiler. He used to A.D.C. the haughty
Chelmsford menage. A honeymoon in the
middle of the Help business occurred when
Aide Yerney married Senator Walker’s
daughter Nita.
The eternal Hat Feminine has taken on a
saucy, stuck-up look all round. When it’s
boiled down to the new French toque species
it grows a high, folded silk fence all round,
and looks rather like a closed concertina.
Only a few of these foreign importations
were dragged out of Paris hat-boxes before
race week, though they’ll march round town
in dozens presently. Little Mrs. Forbes
Angus wore one of these chic pioneers the
other day. It had a fascinating flick of pink
somewhere near the front. The deserving
poor who viewed this creation at the races
could only turn over in their minds the best
way to imitate it at bedrock price.
The mild anguish of trying to dissect the
fashionable dress so as to say what it is—
instead of what it isn’t —becomes acute when
one has to stare steadfastly, practically to
the bone, into the fixings of the woman who
seems to get an awful lot for her money.
Last week, being mostly warm and summery,
brought out the three-layer gown. The
under-stratum appeared to be built of some-
thing fairly substantial and sufficiently
heavy to keep off sunburn. Over this
goes a sub-stratum of stout lace. The whole
is covered with a dark, transparent film. Put
a feather boa and a few yards of pearls over
the whole, hang a collection of loose bric-st-
brac —roughly described as a chatelaine—
from the belt so that it clatters like falling
ironmongery, and you arrive (exhausted) at
the end of a heart-to-heart talk with Clothes.
One of the best-looking of those intricate
gowns, the outer skin or epidermis being navy
blue, covered the large, benign presence of
Miss Macldnnon, of Derribong station, on a
recent race day.
Gentleman Help Talbot, who now decor-
ates the vice-regal camp in Queensland, gra-
ciously looked in at the Easter festivities in
this humble “colonial” town. He has grown
a fine Australian coat of tan over his once
girlish complexion, to the great improvement
thereof.
One of the male persons who has made the
biggest Easter splash in “society” is Com-
mander Claude Cumberlege, R.N., of the
Warrego. He’s said to be the most dashing
beau of the moment hereabouts, and a dancer
of breathless energy. The local mamma is
not quite sure whether Captain Cumberlege
is an eligible bachelor or a merry grass
widower, or what, but she means to find out
even if she has to steam his correspondence
and open it surreptitiously to do the deed.
May Grice, one of Melbourne’s Society
damsels, has been enjoying the multitudi-
nous dances here. She wore a double-decker
gown, however, at the Matrons’ hop that
didn’t excite the local girl to grit her teeth
in any wild spasm of envy.
Mrs. John Osborne, who used to be Olive
Atherton, of Melbourne, has been raising the
little green monkey of envy in the breasts of
less dressy young dames. At the Matrons’
hop last week her deep-toned rose double-
decker frock was one of the best-looking
events of the evening.
Marjory, the recently come-out, fair, fluffy-
haired daughter of the Alfred Marks’, has
been gadding in the thick of the recent festive
fray. She got away with a lot of admiration
at the rose-trimmed matrons’ dance in a
white frock, with the usual 1914 drapery less
bunched up than in the more advanced styles.
Some of the advanced styles, by the way, are
so looped up all round that the lady inside
looks the slim ghost of an old four-poster bed-
stead after the curtains had been pulled
aside.
The Findlay dame from Maoriland, who
went off to Europe in the Orama the other
day, is the wife of the lawyer Findlay who
was Attorney-General in a Ward (M.L.)
Ministry. He caught a knighthood—a mod-
erately easy gaud to run to earth
during a visit to Bullopolis, about three
years ago. His lady is very keen about
the handle, and any Orama passenger who
chances to mislay the designation for an
hour will be a careless person and in search
of trouble.
Bart. Joseph Ward (M.L.) paid a rush
visit to Sydney last week. He hadn’t time
to unpack his after-dinner speeches before he
bustled off to Wellington on the same craft
that brought him this way. During his short
sojourn hereabouts the Dominion’s ex-
Premier camped under the hospitable shingle
of manager Owen Cox, of Birt and Co.’s big
shipping firm.
Lord Dick Nevill put in as abbreviated an
appearance at last week’s razzle-dazzle as his
extreme length would permit. He grasped
the hands of a few score of friends near the
rushing shadow of the horse at Randwick,
but was otherwise something of a hermit,
A polo ball of the heavily gilt-edged guinea
tickets and champagne finish is booked for
July 9. It is going to repeat the financial
success of last year in aid of the Civil Ambu-
lance. Much the same committee of town
and country dames will push the sale of
tickets. Hon. sec. Mrs. Macneill Simpson
and hon. treasurer Mrs. Spencer Brunton are
girding up their tunics for the fray. Just
here may I ask what the Civil Ambulance
horse is going to get out of this Society frivol?
He was mostly ribs and points when he at-
tended the Easter races. A regular stomach-
full of corn ought to be Ms perquisites. As
he is unable to attend any committee meet-
ings I mention his ribs on his behalf.
Artist Alf Vincent sends a joyous whoop
this way concerning the arrival of a brand-
new daughter. Miss Vincent is said to be
a most charming and accomplished infant.
Fancy having a Duchess d’Aosta wander-
ing this way without a brass band or a guard
of honor or a throne chair! The lady blew
in and out of this port so quickly that she
vanished while Society was looking for its
card-case. Like her brother, the much-
talked-about Duke of Orleans, the d’Aosta
dame has the Bourbon strain in her veins.
France has no. time for the male Orleans,
and has twice requested the pleasure of his
absence from Paris.
One of the chief attractions of the Shaks-
peare Festival in the Town Hall this week
is the stocks. A special disadvantage of
kicking over law in the Elizabethan period—-
and of course much later —was the incon-
venience of losing an ear or two and giving
the misfortune undue publicity -in ye olde
Englishe stocks. Two volunteers, who de-
cline to give their names, are sitting in the
Town Hall stocks turn and turn about.
Wandering minstrels will take up the collec-
tion at this crisis. Living chess is navi-
gated from the platform to suitable music.
A champion and ex-champion play ye olde
game, while a herald yells the moves to the
living knights, queens and pawns on the-
floor. When a queen retires she goes off
in tears to a melancholy growl from the
musicians’ instruments. The knights go off
in a huff. As for the pawns, I suppose the
band wails the “Three Golden Balls,” dead
march in chess.
Vivid shades of our old friend navy-blue
put up a good record during last week. Pretty
Mrs. Willie Andersen, with a dash of yellow
silk round her waist, was one of the nicest-
looking young persons in blue at the Rand-
wick crushes.
M.L. Tourist-Agent H. J. Manson passed
this way for Melbourne last week. In addi-
tion to his Government billet the man from
Wellington wears a new tail as Trade Com-
missioner for Maoriland.
The British Association which slogs
steadily at the advancement of Science, is
getting up its learned muscle for the August
invasion of this hamlet. Organising sec.
Dr. A. C. Rivett is rushing this way to knock
preliminaries into shape. He is the man
who has recently been in touch with the heavy
hand of Science in England. He leaves Mel-
bourne to shed the light of his countenance
upon us in a few days. Later he makes a
hurried trip to Brisbane. Our own Botanic
Gardens J. H. Maiden is putting in a solid
slab of advance work as hon. sec. of the
N.S.W. committee.
Mr. William Stuart, a Darling Point mag-
nate, petrolled up to Kosciusko with a. party
on April 18. The old mountain is becoming
respectable nowadays. There was a time
when many good old State Frighters wouldn’t
be seen in its company, lest they should be
suspected of “Victorian sympathies,” but now
they talk to it quite affably.
Artists Ethel Stephens and Dorothea Bar-
clay are exhibiting their wares this week.
Their studio in Kirkton-road (Darlinghurst)
is lined with samples of their brush and
chisel work.
H. N. Southwell, writing from Colombo, re-
ports all’s well and health improving.
Southie muses that his sun-tanned skin in-
cited the local natives to hail him joyfully as
“Father.” A longer stay in that beggar-
haunted settlement would remove Southie’s
illusion. After a tireless horde of native
mendicants have chased evey stranger’s ’rick-
shaw, like a flock of raucous crows, with
“This is my Pa-pa—this is Ma-ma” —the
hardened traveller would prefer to be a de-
ceased grandfather for a change. Sometimes
he feels like an uncle, and a very extor-
tionate, pawnbrokerish kind of uncle at that.
Mrs. Helen Jerome, a writer of graceful
verse, has returned to Sydney after a year or
so on the other side.
The Pierrot Ball, in aid of the old ladies’
Twilight Home, showed some very thin places
in its board of management. It was adver-
tised in such a slack style (apart from the
generous largesse of free pijffs in the social
columns) that various inqmsitive people who
searched the amusement ads. for days before-
hand failed to locate any mention of the
event. As the night was full of rain, and
howled with savage austs of wind, that
sounded the same as bears in caves, they
stayed at home as a cheap luxury. One irate
searcher for facts declares that she did locate
a Pierrot somewhere, but, as it didn’t conde-
scend to explain either the date or the loca-
tion, she concluded it was a semi-private
affair, and galleryites were to be severely dis-
couraged.
The Druitt-street entrance to the Town
Hall unfolded its portals about a quarter to
eight on the eventless night. A score or two,
or more, of very damp sightseers had huddled
up against its bleak, closed doors since 7.30
p.m. They made a joyous bound into dry
weather inside, to be turned back. Only
ticket-holders could pass on to the gallery.
The more stubborn refused to camp on the
wet tiles outside till someone who was re-
lated to someone on the committee—some
third brother once removed, or half-grand-
mother by a previous marriage—should come
along and sell the necessary passports. Half-
crowns were dross. No official would touch
them. Presently one woman guarding a few
tickets did appear. That portion of the wet
public which was nearest to her fell upon her
treasure and got rid of their half-crowns.
Then followed another deadly wait. Impati-
ent souls fled homeward. The dogged deter-
mination of women ficm remote suburbs,
however, saw them througn. After standing
from 7.30 p.m. till 8.15, one group was able
to buy gallery tickets —as someone chose to
come along and sell them —and stormed the
staircase with fierce and threatening remarks.
No coffee was available upstairs for the
rained-on waiters by the gloomy portal. If
too many cooks spoil the broth, too many
Pierrot balls would hash the temper.
After slam-whanging every Perfect Lady
on the Twilight Home Ball committee, the
gallery spectators sat down to see what was
to be seen, while they squeezed the rain out
of their wet feet. Decorations were attrac-
tive. Hanging yellow balls, yellow flowers,
and daffodil-tinted lights soothed the savage
beast—l mean breast. The Pierrot sets
varied from good to worse.
The Marie Antoinette lot were about the
best. The girls in fussy white satin paniers,
and all white effects —powdered hair, etc. —
were very well designed, and Miss Mar-
jorie Street, who pushed the idea into shape,
is here handed a large bouquet. She led off
with Mag-Captain Radcliffe, a most joyful
tar, who made things hum hereabouts.
li.M.A.S. Australia supplied all the male
persons in this lively set. Miss Georgie
Neild’s black velvet eyes sparkled under the
brim of her pert little white hat as she
stepped out amongst the Maries, with her
sailor-man Vaughan Lewis, R.N., in the
offing. Some large and baggy rose-pink
Pierrots led forth their Pierrettes —same
roomy cut about the bloomers —to dance.
Mrs. Macarthur-Onslow looked like an
amiable baa-lamb under a fluffy white wig,
that was exactly like bleached wool in the
distance. Ruth Lumsdaine was an emerald
green Pierrette in Mrs. Wesche’s set. But
too much Pierrot is a weariness to the eye.
The long willow-wand figure of Mrs. Neville
Mayman, draped in satin like an old gold
sunset, was a soothing sight after an acre
or two of the garments Mrs. Amelia Bloomer
wanted us to wear for Sunday best.
Captain Anderson, an Imperial man who
has been lent or exchanged to the Australian
forces, married a Roumanian girl, Miss Alex-
andra Ganesco, on a recent Saturday in Mel-
bourne. They were fellow-passengers to these
shores on one of the big ocean liners a few
weeks ago.
The M.L. Government Tourist Agent
in Sydney, W. R. Blow, who occa-
sionally uplifts a pleasing tenor in
the evening hymn, has a brother named
Reginald who is growing extensive
baritone in London. The latter has been
picked to warble in a competition for the
Goldberry prize. This goes to a senior
student at the Royal Academy of music—
presumably the youth who can pump the
loudest supply of lung-power into his vocal
cords, for only bassos and baritones compete.
“Snowy” Baker, pausing in his breathless
pursuit of the French Adonis, Carpentier,
scribbled a postcard on the deck of the mam-
moth liner Lusitania. He says that, with
Mrs. Baker, he dropped into the Metropolitan
Opera House, New York, and there heard
Caruso.... At this moment the Atlantic
waves were careering over the huge ocean
craft. Our office hieroglyphic expert trans-
lates the other artists’ names as follows:
Johannes Smithiannus, Gift, Trump, High,
Low, Jack, the Game, Right Bower, Blot,
Smudge and No Trumps.” (Some of these
were the names of the Seven Sleepers of
Ephesus, but that is a mere coincidence.)
Star-lady Mary Proctor writes of a pleas-
ant cruise on the Otway. At Suez she made
the rushed flight to Cairo with some fellow-
voyagers, and basked by moonlight in the
shadow of the Sphinx. She was due in
London on March 28.
Manager Freddie Shipman has been track-
ing, per cable, the French-Canadian song-
stress, Eva Gauthier, to some tropic village in
Java. Result, a wire from the small charmer
accepting the offer of an engagement in the
Mischa Elman Australian tour. Eva packs
her high-heeled shoes and other frivolities
forthwith, and trips up the Mataram’s gang-
way. She is due here on May 21. Percy
Kahn, a London pianist, who has dashed up
and down the keyboard to loud applause dur-
ing the last three years, while Elman fiddled
his fastest, is to assist in his old place at the
piano.
Black glace, which recalls the shade of
Jane Austin, is a 1914 autumn revival.
Mere youngsters fold themselves in its
gloomy embrace this season, as the newest
old thing they can wear. A sombre four-
decker gown of this Sabbatarian-looking
material, scolloped in flounces, tripped into
the sacred circle of the members’ stand the
other day. And the girl inside it was only
somewhere in the teeny age.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


-VICE-REGAL
BY APPOINTMENT.
JEWELLERS—
Solid Silver Manicure Sets.
Our Selection of Articles Suitable for
Presentation Purposes is Unsurpassed in
the Commonwealth.
Inspection of the Showrooms cordially invited.
HARDY BROS UU
Hand Engraved Silver Manicure Set, with Chippen-
dale Border, Best Quality Cutlery, in Case, with
Removable Tray,
£ll.
Others from 32/- upwards.
• .■■■*' • ' vHI: ' ■ •
Selections sent to the country on approval.
HARDY BROS. LTD.,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter Street, Sydney; 118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
and AT LONDON.
NOW READY.
Two Great Australian Novels
“In the Last Stride,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT
(Author of “Gambler’s Gold,” “A Rogue’s
Luck,” “Rung In,” etc.).
An intensely interesting story, with a
big appeal to the Australian’s sporting
instincts. A genuine love story, developed
in exciting and original circumstances.
“A Rebel of the Bush,”
By DON DELANEY
(Author of “For Turon Gold,” “Gentle-
man Jack,” etc.).
A capital story of the days of Governor
Macquarie, skilfully told and full of inci-
dent. One of the best and brightest novels
that have been written round early Aus-
tralian history.
All About the Australian Dog.
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS and BITERS,”
by ROBERT KALJESKI.
A cleverly-written and instructive book about the Australian dog.
The origins of the various breeds are traced, and their peculiarities and
weaknesses discussed. Enlivened throughout by happily-placed anec-
dotes. • _
Other Popular Novels isiif Bookstall Series
—A Great Library of Australian Books.
“ THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR LAUNCH,”
by ARTHUR H. ADAMS (Editor, “Red Page”).
A series of humorous and unusual adventures on Sydney Harbor.
“THE CALLING VOICE,” by e. f. Christie.
A charming story of the fascination of the Bush.
“ SOUTH SEA SHIPnATES,” by john Arthur barry.
A collection of rattling stories of the sea.
“ ABORIGINALITIES,”
A collection of the gems published in The Bulletin’s “Aboriginalities” column.
AND OVER SEVENTY OTHER NOVELS.
Obtainable from every Bookseller & Bookstall in the Commonwealth.
PRICE l/= each; Posted 1/1.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
Here is an Offer that will enable you to
obtain a PIANOLA PIANO without delay
:#i
We will deliver the genuine
Pianola Piano to your home
£5
on payment of
£5 down
<£s
And the balance may be paid
in small monthly instalments#
How could Five Pounds be better spent than in obtaining the inestimable gift of music, the means to entertain
yourself and your friends on so many occasions? .
No one need hesitate to enter into such an arraugement-there are so many prices and such a varying scale o
terms that the Pianola Piano is within the reach of every home.
Special Offer to Piano Owners!
Tell us what your present piano is, and we will quote you a most libera 3
purchase of a genuine Pianola Piano. The balance can be paid on terms to su y
Pianola Piano can be in your home at once.
it to go towards the
convenience, and the
Think of this—that long desired Pianola Piano
may be in your home this very week all you
need to do is to describe the piano to us.. Kven
if your piano is an old one do not hesitate to
write —the allowance we are prepared to make is
a generous one, and there are many of the
new models of the Pianola Piano which are
comparatively inexpensive.
In order to know how liberal a redu6!ion we are
prepared to make on the price of a genuine
Pianola Piano if your present instrument is
given in part exchange, fill in the attached
coupon and post it to us to-day.
this Coupon and Post to us To-day.
Fill in
VALUATION COUPON.
My present Piano is a
purchased in (Date)
The original cost was
Please let me know the lest allowance you can make on this instrument towards the pur-
chase of a genuine Pianola Piano.
NAME
ADDRESS .
f *o’* T **e*.,
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
Pty.
Ltd.
252 Collins Street, MELBOURNE /
88 Rundle Street, ADELAIDE ;
and 4-36-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE ; London,
Berlin, New York, etc.
357 George Street (next Jones Ltd.), Sydney.
w rwi GCKMA*


A HANDSOME SUIT
“The Cavendish.”
Smart and stylish for Boys of 5 to 9 years, The Cavendish
is one of Farmer’s most popular models. The Coat is
designed with yoke back and front; belt all round, stitched
down; defined waist and full skirt. Plain or Golf Knickers.
The fabrics include new weaves in smart Cheviots, Home-
spuns, Scotch and Irislj Tweeds, also Rough Serges. Colors:
Navys, Browns, Greys and Fancy Mixtures.
PRICES: 22/6, 25/-, 27/6 to 35/-
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
SP
THE FASHION PERFUME
OF TO-DAY.
' ?
. 5f^
-
Parftin)
LilaS
Manufactured by
GUSTAV
LOHSE,
BERLIN.
Imitated but not
equalled.
Sole
Agent:
A,O« SCHMIDT, William Street
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from IS/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 20, 1914.
My Dear Tarrie, —
By way of holding the Empire together,
State Governor Stanley opened the Rose
Show, on Wednesday last. He and his lady
are enthusiastic gardeners —the intense kind
that hunt snails by lantern-light, when the
borders are dripping with dew and the dis-
turbed creepers throw icy water down the
unprotected neck; consequently, they en-
joyed the fragrant job and were able to
comment intelligently when they wandered
round. Her Ex. has already inspected the
Botanical Gardens, under the guidance of
the curator, and expressed polite surprise at
the botanical completeness.
_ There is a tuppenny mystery about the
vice-regal set planned for the big Repertory
Club Ball, on May 6, but a few hints about
it have leaked out or fallen over the edge.
Lady Denman and Lady Stanley are
arranging the magnificent thing in unison,
and if it doesn’t alter the course of sub-
urban history it won’t be their fault. The
Australian Opera Leaguers are taking the
Wagner “Ring” for their set. The floor is
being tested by engineers to see if it will
stand the weight of the assemblage, and
the welkin is getting tuned up so that it will
ring properly. All people who yearn to be
in the tableaux are implored to register
early at a frivolous address, to wit, “the Ball
Office, Town Hall.” The large McCubbin
lady is collecting supper supplies from all
quarters. If there should be a siege of this
city before the festivity the Town Hall
would be a good place to storm and loot.
The intended decorative scheme of the ball-
room is described as unique. The West
Balcony will be reserved for guests, but the
Eastern and Northern roosts will be thrown
open to the Gaping Public at 10s. 6d. a
gape, with supper thrown or dashed in.
The hard South gallery will be five shillings
a seat.
The Quamby Club has acquired, captured
or enslaved the Stanley lady as a member,
and is politely saying “Yah!” to all rival
disorganisations. The triumphant club will
indulge in a mass meeting and party, on Fri-
day, May 15, when the pretty captive will
be gloated over.
Jennie Brenan has been appointed dan-
cing-mistress to the three Stanley infants.
Their mother admits to being an admirer of
ballet dancing—or the grace that comes of
it —and she wants her eldest girl to strive
after a Genee style of daintiness. Jennie
(who is an ex-pupil of Genre’s uncle-instruc-
tor) also teaches the small Denmans how to
leap into the air and come down again with-
out stamping on their hands.
The second session of the Fifth Common-
wealth Parliament was opened on Wednes-
day last with so much pomp and circum-
stance that one really might have been ex-
cused for thinking Cook and Fisher had
buried the ass’s jawbone and were going to
do something useful. But it was only the pan-
tomime prelude to the same old untidy
wrangle. The same old crowd of idle,
well-dressed and politically ignorant
females squandered the best part of
the day in order to make sure of
seeing the fancy-dress parade, which was
practically the same as all the other parades
that have preceded it. Lady Denman, who
came along to w_atch her husband make his
farewell apeparance, was under a melo-
dramatic black hat, large and heavily
plumed. I forget what her dress was like.
The little Stanley lady was with her; but
her garments escaped my notice. These
two seem to play in each other’s distin-
guished backyards very amiably, and when
they are in a frivolous mood each climbs the
other’s apple tree and one chases the
other’s dog. The Barttelot lady was
in a sort of fire brigade costume, and
the Gaud Mayoress struck a vivid note
with waratahs on black plush. I will
not weary vou, my dear Yarrie, with
a lengthy description of the ceremonial futili-
ties and the numbers of feathers on view.
One fact I will tell you—we wound up as
usual with tea. Not with arsenic or cyan-
ide of potassium, mind you, but plain, harm-
less tea. So we all escaped, dear, and next
year we will do it all over again.
Pligh Conditioner Reid’s sister, Mrs. York
Svme, has been driving the Harry Lauder
couple round the country behind her stout
horses. She is giving a party for Mrs. L.
at the end of the week, and the fatted bag-
pipes will be slain in her honor. The
hostess-elect has a nephew or somebody at
Cambridge who is very friendly with the
Lauder son and heir. The young man is either
learning something or other, or clearing his
mind of knowledge acquired elsewhere. It
is very hard to say what these people do at
Cambridge.
Rupert Clarke starts off for his Papuan
adventures this week. His specially de-
signed and armed motor-boat is a sort of
Fly River ironclad —or wireclad —and it will
take a very ingenious savage to harm its
crew. A man who has just returned from
the mysterious river region says that the
little party of explorers will need all the
cover they are providing. The natives there
stick closer than a revenue stamp when they
take a fancy for a craft, and they are
clothed in cunning, if in nothing else. They
are probably one of the Ten Lost Tribes,
for they are hook-nosed and generally re-
semble the Israelites of Petticoat-lane, Lon-
don. Some little men with black, scraggy
lip-whiskers strongly resemble the Petticoat-
laners —or are what they might resemble if
all the clothes of Gad and Reuben were stolen
and they were bathed in coffee. They are
suspicious in their dealings, and won’t relax
their left-handed snap on a pineapple till the
right hand has closed over the stick of to-
bacco, or whatever the trade happens to be.
(Incidentally it might be remarked that an
absolutely new Jew or Cohen—even a naked
brown one —would be a blessing to the
thriftless Premier Holman, of N.S.W., who
appears to have financially exhausted all the
known Jews.) Traders have ventured up as
far as 30 miles, and still found 40ft. of water
under their boats. The naval tactics of the
brown river-men are clever. The defenders’
charging canoe is sent bows on down the
stream, and only one native is visible to the
defenders. He stands in the bow launching
spears and bad language, and, as soon as he
is potted he is bundled overboard and an-
other is in his place. Extra murderers swim
alongside under water. These people should
at least provide the adventurous Rupert
with a little entertainment; but if he opens
up a new Jew Holman will be extremely
grateful to him.
Heiress Marie Hall is giving a big Plaza
party as her first social outbreak since her
return. The invitations to girls include an
appeal or admonition: “Bring your own
tango partner.” The trouble about a 73-
step tango is that the average dancer can
only manage it with her own special partner
with whom she has practised the contortions.
Two tangoists are hopelessly at sea, unless
they have had rehearsals beforehand,
and even when they know exactly
what they mean to do their faces betray the
haunting fear that they may have forgotten
some of the lesson. Professional tangoists
rarely look quite joyful. The amateurs are
sicklied over with the pale cast of thought
all the time.
Lawyer Waxman, of this city, won the
Bowls Championship of Australia at the
Brisbane trundling. The slim Waxman does
not look like a confirmed bowler. He is a
living demonstration of the fact that it isn’t
necessary to go five laps to the mile round
the waist to excel at the devotion.
The Spinners’ Society is making a buzzing
sound just now. Mrs. Harper is the presi-
dent and her seconds are Mrs. Arthur Robb
and the Allen dame. They a , et together in
the morning to draw up the ground plans of
pinafores, etc., for the defenceless poor. For-
merly they used to assemble in the after-
noons ; but social engagements are so fre-
quent nowadays that the meeting-time was
altered to a less fashionable morning. The
Scotchbyterian Hall, Toorak, is their haunt,
and_ I mention the fact so that you may
avoid the place and not interrupt the good
work —at least I suppose it is good work.
Mrs. Hossen-Loff. who is off with hubby
to Europe for six months, indulged her
friends with tea, music and chatter in the
upper room of the Paris Caf6, before she
and her luggage got away. The Gaud
Mayoress, in black, was a guest of honor,
and Miss Maxwell and Mr. Morgan danced
a maxixe up and down the apartment. The
tall hostess added to her stature with long
black plumes, and wore the latest edition
of black moire and cloth.
Millionaire Carnegie, whose largest per-
sonal advertisement is the poor old Palace
of Peace at the Hague, is getting it fur-
nished free of charge by the fighting
nations, the peaceful nations being too
poor or too dead to help. The Common-
wealth is supplying a table of inlaid woods
and metals, which has been on view in a
Bourke-street window. Twelve Australian
woods are represented. The drawers have
handles of Broken Hill silver wrought into
the shape of ’possums, the locks are of local
manufacture, and Australian gold and opals
are set in the beautifully polished surface.
The “Ted” (K.C.) Mitchells have ac-
quired Brookong, the late Mrs. Kinnear’s
house at the Toorak tram terminus. But
alas! the once-farnous garden is to be sat
upon by a red-brick villa, while the picture
gallery is to be turned into a home two-step
apartment.
Marjorie, the Norman Wilsons’ girleen, is
off to Holland to stay awhile with sister
Mollie, who wedded a Dutchman, settled in
the Hague, and is now the mother of a real
Dutch baby that drinks schnapps and smokes
cigars all day.
The Harry Creswicks are off to display
their Australian-born infant to relatives in
Scotland, which is the country Mrs. Harry
sprang or jumped from.
The handsome Creswell dame is back in
Melbourne from Adelaide whither she went
to see a sick mother. She has literary
ability, and, but for her paralysing state of
affluence, might have tried to earn a living
with her pen.
Madge, the elder of Dr. Lillie’s captivating
twin daughters, has swooped oft the Society
perch into the barnyard of hat architects.
Her partner is Miss Nankivell. Two other
superior spinsters are said to be contemplat-
ing the same move.
Zara Morris, a pretty Melbourne brunette,
has had some newly : discovered waterfall in
the fashionable Lome district called after
her. It will be refreshing in the dog days to
remember that down in the heart of the
forest a fern-bordered cataract is keeping
your memory green as it splashes towards
the sea. If Zara lives to be very, very an-
cient and is wheeled to the Falls in a bath-
chair, it may interest the young tourists of
the moment to hear her burble over the
beauteous work of Nature and cry “That’s
me!”
The Mount Ivoroit Kirbys are mourning
for daughter Lila, a big, fair, athletic girl
in her earliest twenties, who died suddenly
after a few days’ illness. Mr. Kirby is at
present on a bed of sickness, so the home is
a very sad one.
The Lohengrin set, now being marshalled
for the Repertory Theatre Ball, is growing
daily in size, for the intensely musical set
realise that Pinschof himself will lead it in
person as one of the numerous gods.
Walter Withers occupies the Athen-
aeum at present, and the good old reputa-
tion of the artist (whom age withers nob) is
luring crowds up the beastly grey stairs.
The Best Fed enter panting and fling them-
selves into chairs; but the pictures on the
walls soon make them sit up. Withers is a
dreamy idealist with a genius for hard work,
and the result is a remarkable show of work
in many mediums. This year he is showing
crowds of small sketches instead of the big
canvases he used to produce. “Small pic-
tures,” he says, “can catch something fleet-
ing, while the big work needs too many
bites.’’ “Yes,” interrupts his business-like
wife, “and the small pictures sell freely.”
Th ' -xh.ibition, which opened on April 16,
will lie available for the usual fortnight.
Paul Dufault sang his way through four
concerts last week. This trip he explained
his sweet French songs “ver the footlights,
so. everybody understood what it was about.
His houses have been uniformly good—but
he has deserved them, his fine voice being at
its very best. Pauline Bindley, a local girl,
sang attractively in smart gowns. On
Thursday she wore a maroony-mauvey chiffon
over blue, and resembled a Blamire Young
impression of Evening. She towed a man-
ageable train, and didn’t trip or somersault
once. Harold Whittle, at the piano, played
the accompaniments even better than usual
—which is saying a heap.
Streeton returns to Australia within a
fortnight. He is to hold a show of work in
June at the Guild Hall, because the heavy
advance booking for the Upper Athenaeum
disqualifies the casual artistic looker-
in. Anyhow Streeton must feel well
disposed towards the Guild Hall, which
he “discovered” some years ago. On
that occasion he was safely billed for
the Athenaeum, but found at the last
minute that his beloved buff hessian
background screens could not be fitted in.
Sooner than do without them he careered
round town and secured the place at the far
end of the city, where the cohorts of the
Best, who had sought for him in vain at
the abandoned Athenaeum, found him prac-
tically unprepared to receive visitors. But
that didn’t deter them; they bought like
millionaires, Streeton cleared something like
£lOOO, and the artistic boom had started.
After that all the wandering Australian
artists gave a united whoop and charged like
dervishes from all points with canvases
under their arms. Nowadays nobody shows
stuff in Melbourne without selling some-
thing, and all the good men have made
money. Streeton has just finished the huge
panels for the. Commonwealth Building in
London. He sent word some weeks ago that
he would leave just as soon as that job was
through.
Artist Tom Carter, of Melbourne, sends
word from London that he is deeply im-
mersed in Arts and Crafts study. He speaks
worshipfully of the near presence of High
Priest Walter Crane and other leaders of
the A. & C. world.
McCubbin has just finished the Alfred
Deakin portrait for the Commonwealth gal-
lery, and Mrs. Mac is giving a party at the
Riverside house in order that friends may
drink tea before it.
From “Rosna,” in London:—
Oscar Asche told the members of the Playgoers’
Club, at their annual dinner, that the drama was
in a flourishing state in Australia. He attributed
the gratifying circumstance neither to the abounding
prosperity, nor to the esthetic taste of the Common-
wealth, but to the fact that “most Australians had to
dine at 6.30 p.m., it being illegal to employ cooks
after that hour , except in houses that had more
than one cook.” By the way, Asche, H. B. Irving,
Ethel Irving—in brief, all the stars who have shone
in Australia during the past half-dozen years—are
solid on the vast opportunity that awaits a new
theatrical co., backed bv really big money, in Aus-
tralasia. The practical monopoly which is held by
the J. C. Williamson firm at present wouldn’t endure
for 12 months if Frohman or someone of that calibre,
butted into the business. The big actors wish that
something of the sort would happen. They like
coming to Australia, despite the Cook problem and
other mostly bogus disabilities.
The recently-announced engagement of Noel Bux-
ton, son of a former S.A. vice-royalty, and Miss
Lucy Pelham Burn, cloaks a political romance. He
is Liberal M.P. for North Norfolk, and the lady, a
member of a sternly Conservative clan, had been
an ardent worker against his candidature for the
constituency. She had also organised a petition against
the Liberal party’s Insurance Act, which same peti-
tion Mr. Buxton had jeered at in public with more
gusto than civility.
Then they became associated in a scheme for aid-
ing non-combatants in the Balkans, or discovering
needles in bundles of hay or something, and almost
before Society realised that they were on speaking
terms they were engaged.
Some anonymous lunatic, who says he has just re-
turned from “a tour of the Empire,” purports to
have discovered “a passionate and extraordinarily
widespiead desire that Queen Alexandra and the
Prince of Wales should visit Australia and Maoriland
incognito.” The London Daily Graphic duly printed
the pathetic nonsense. Said the travelled idiot: —
“At dozens of places, by scores of old friends, I
was asked to make this wish known in Britain. If
Queen Alexandra and her grandson will go out to the
Southern Dominions in one of our warships they will
give the keenest happiness and delight to the people.
Why, in Australia alone there are ZOO towns and
villages named after Queen Alexandra.”
The Australian Year Book for 1913 gives in its
gazetteer—wherein are mentioned hamlets containing
populations as insigniiicant as 55 (Winchendon Vale,
N.S.W.) and 59 (Colosseum, Q.) —one Alexandria
(N.S.W.), one Alexandra (Vic.), and one Alexander
River (W.A.) —the latter a post town with a popu-
lation, seemingly, of nil. Neither Tasmania, Queensland
nor South Aus. possesses any city, town, village, hamlet
or what not the name of which can by any stretch
of the most infuriatedly Imperialistic imagination be
twisted into the remotest likeness to the name Alex-
andra. But the London papers never bother about
such trifling details. I have come to the conclusion
that the Jingo press of Britain would rather have its
leg pulled than eat.
Class is decided at the Palais de Danse
by your headgear. If you are just “a young
person,” you dance without a hat. If you
are sporty, you swathe your hair with rib-
bon velvet. If you want to be considered
smart, you dance in your hat. (Not on it,
mind!) It doesn’t matter if the feathers
brush the ceiling lights, or an extinguisher
velvet crown blots out your face and makes
you look headless; you solemnly take the
floor with the tile firmly clamped to your
hair. The Palais has apparently come to
stay. Languid young men, or young men
who are clumsy and nervous, need only dance
if they want to. No duty dances cast shadows
over their evenings, and the worried hostess
with the antique partner in tow is an un-
known horror.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
A crowd of 30,000 and a totalisator of £31,000
were the chief features of this year’s Onkaparinga
meeting. Other features were rotten roads, pleasant
weather, good racing and Kelvin’s £33 dividend.
Incidentally, Mirabilite returned £lO 12s. in the
Trial Stakes.
Society was there in force and motors, the female
section of it much annoyed at the absence of a
lady’s tote. The men were, if possible, even more
annoyed. They had, owing to this disability, to
fracture the even tenor of their own betting by
adding their women-friends’ half-crowns to their
sovereigns or fivers, or whatever the sum was.
Most of the Melbourne poloists were in the throng.
They were feasted by the Rosebank Melroses; also
the C. H. Angases, who were lunching the Alec
Murrays and the Alec Murrays’ pretty daughter; the
J. H. Grahams and the John Corbins, who came late
and left early ; a sprinkling of Milnes and Stirlings,
the Waterhouses, and Mrs. Herbert Rymill. Coats
and skirts were everywhere, and most of them were
of navy-blue serge, which, by the way, is unsightly
wear when the dust is six inches deep underfoot and
heavy in the air.
The John Darling estate hasn’t been lodged for
probate yet, but fairly authentic rumor puts it down
at anything from £750,000 to £1,000,000. Mrs.
McKinlay’s estate has been sworn or denounced or
objurgated at £55,000.
On Wednesday the Ways asked about 17,000
people to afternoon tea in the Government House
garden, and about 14,000 of the 17,000 turned up.
The hostess was in black, with garnishings of ninon
and Limerick lace, and Mrs. Herbert Rymill wore a
successful garment of delphinium blue and a black
hat. On the whole, dressing was mixed, and hovered
between lingering summer and dawning winter —
which reminds me that one unseasonable dame swel-
tered in a sable coat at Onkaparinga. Mrs. H.
Martin inhabited a smartly tailored black and white
check, and Miss Peacock’s mole cr£pe de chine was
a dream. Mrs. Julian Ayers and Mrs. Fenner and
Mrs. Lendon and her daughter were all enviably
clad; and parsons, members of Parliament and
heads of departments were thick as thie—-I mean,
flies. Also, I discerned Mr. Ligert Wood (who is
the Chief Justice’s Associate as well as the Lieu-
tenant-Governor’s A.D.0.), Captain Fletcher and
Major Connor. These three did a lot of unobtrusive,
but none the less heroic, work, in the way of showing
the visitors the way to the food.
The Ways’ term of office is up to-day, and already
the fickle crowd may be heard murmuring “Vive les
Galways”—that is those of them who have doings
with the Alliance Frangaise. Our new rulers arrived
at the outer harbor punctually to time, and were
welcomed on the spot by the‘Premier. They were
welcomed again at the Adelaide station by the
Mayor, and again at Government House by the
Ways. And then came the welcome at the Town
Hall at 3 o’clock. They both bore up fairly well —
more especially Lady Galway. She dresses well, and
has a delightful smile. The woman who can smile
delightfully after four official welcomes is some goods
surely, as they say in the U.S.
The Mormons are here. In point of fact, it appears
that they have been in our midst for 40 years,
during which period they have raked in 111 adher-
ents more than two converts per annum. They
have seven “missionaries” in S.A., and aspire to build
a church. They are not polygamists, and don’t want
to lure people to Utah. It all sounds very dull.
Also, it strikes one as out of place. Why do they
call themselves Mormons when it is evident, in
reality, that they are merely Methodies, or some
such stuffy people? It is like a particularly tame
bank-clerk styling himself Bandit Bill or Cut-throat
Algernon.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNS.


Born 1820
—Still going strong
f
h
/
m
%
\
//■
m
Vi
m
<77
y
'V?/
A
'/s&ry.
A
€
'/
• — r* r ß£°
\— - v.
✓-<55
1
S 2&
l __
?5P35^
'*
x-
“S’
4
(^5
r')>>
>253
Q
Ws
N,
\?>>-
J
%
<2^
A
%
A
r
, :
n
7>
to
wm
as^
,oev^
te»
6?
x^G
\S
1
s°
e,w°
d*
0^
O
\O*V
Y\o$ e
tre e *^
T ha to\d^-*
%*g§
The glory and renown of “Johnnie IValkcr has cilso spread oer
land and sea ” by reason of its matured-by-time-and-nature-quality.
—This quality is guaranteed the same throughout the entire world.
Red
Every Drop over
IO Years Old
In Non-refillable Bottles.
To safeguard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of thepast . First & foremost to see
that the margin of stocks over sales is always large enough to maintain our unique quality.
Bottled only by JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK , SCOTLAND .
And at S YDNE Y and MELBO URNE.


Ibr all parts of your
Motor Gar
wooo class
»AAS9
■tea*
Bon Ami removes the dirt only-
polishes beautifully, and will nolj
scratch.
L
&
Just try it in your bathroom,
r—= For
ft h rooms
Bon Ami
is the best
for tiling,
marble,
enamel
and
porcelain.
The World’s Best.
DAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
•Silent Knight Engine.
Shaft Drive No Chains.
å
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t’y
Melbourne.
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney &. Adelaide,
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN- ALITIES
Central : Re “Gouger’s” par. (B.
5/3/’l4) in which he mentions a drunk made by
hanging up a bunch of bananas and catching the
juice when they ferment. It is commonly known as
banana rum,” but if “Gouger” wants a more potent
tangle let him procure a fair-sized pineapple, and
after having peeled or skinned it (whichever he likes)
cut it up and put it into an ordinary big jug, shy in
a breakfast cup full of sugar (not the cup,' too), and
fill up the void with good rain water. Let the mix-
ture stand for five or six days, until it ferments a
treat, bottle the stuff and cork well, being very care-
ful to anchor ’ the bottle. The result will be ready
for consumption in, say, four days. But the longer
the jnerrier. Pull tlic cork and drink “while on the
boil.” I’ll leave the rest to “Gouger.”
KEEPING ABREAST OF HE TIMES.
LEO: “Wot yer make of it, Monk?”
MONK: “ Looks like one of them there Austra-
lian Defence areoplanes.”
“Marloo”: When the North Coast
(N.S.W.) cocky really needs rain nothing but a
deluge approaching the one which swamped out old
Noah will satisfy him. The sun had hardly peeped
out after the recent downpour when many dairymen,
on whose land about a foot or so of liquid had
fallen, bellowed to Heaven that the drought was
not sufficiently fractured, and they prayed that more
might descend. And theirs is not wholly a hollow
complaint. The water runs off those lands very
quickly, and is whisked away by numerous creeks
before it has time to soak in. The reason for this
appears to lie in the lack of depth of earth above
the clayey sub-soil. Furthermore, during the hot,
dry weather the earth becomes serried by deep,
gaping fissures, till one would think a drunken earth-
quake had swept across the land. Down these
cracks an enormous quantity of water flows to un-
known depths. Saw a farmer, before the deluge,
satisfying the thirst of one of these fissures. It
closed its mouth after absorbing 30,000 gallons
from his irrigating plant.
The fool who peels off his clothes and
swims out to some distant rock when no one is
about nearly met the fate he deserves at Tauranga
(M.L.) the other day. After being on the rock for
about half a day waving and veiling for help he
was seen, but the sea was then so rough that no
boat could live in it. When the waves went down
a little the harbor-master tried to go out to the
tiny island, but the boat was swamped and the crew
only saved through their lifebelts. There was good
shelter on the island, but no tucker. After three
days of rough weather the naked Crusoe was rescued,
little the worse for the experience. That’s generallv the
wa '. Usually about three good men get drowned
trying to rescue one fool, and that fool, eve dually
comes out of the tight corner in good condition.
* * *
Q. ’ : YV hen I fetched up at one of the
main lighthouses on the Queensland coast it hap-
pened that the lightkeepers’ womenfolk had left the
place temporarily, and the two keepers were keeping
house. I found a fierce dispute on as to which' l man
cooked the best damper. Bets were made for pro-
digious amounts, and I was to be judge. The head
keeper was cook on the first day, and his effort was
only passable. llis assistant promised to beat his
damper by streets. Next morning a local fisherman
strolled up to the Head, and asked me what Jim
(the assistant) was up to. Jim, it seemed, was down
at the fishermen’s camp, and old Bill, the patriarch
of the camp, was teaching him how to fix up a real
damper. (Bill was famous all along the Barrier lleef
as a cook.) The informer had come up for some
flour with which to perpetrate Bill’s swindle. The
boss, promptly offered to get the flour, and in due
course the damper appeared on the table. Its looks
did old Bill credit, and the boss was loud in praise
(of Jim) when the triumph was uncovered. He then
started to cut it up. “These knives are damn blunt,”
he grunted, as he tried first with one and then
another to hack off a slice. “Here, Jim, you try.”
Jim wasn’t able to do anything but turn up the
* cary i n to'knife. “Funny damper
that, remarked the boss. “Reminds me of a fisher-
man s damper—mostly sand.” Jim looked sus-
piciously at his-superior, picked up bis damper and
went out to look for old Bill. On his departure I
asked for an explanation. The head-keeper had dosed
the flour liberally with plaster of Paris, and Jim had
cooked a grindstone.
“Eddyson”: Happy Valley, is a. Vic. health
resort, boasting a salubrious climate and a mineral
spring the waters of which smell like bilge after a
two years cruise. There were about 20 guests at
Green House, Happy Valley, Paul Perrin among the
rest. Twelve of these had been invited to the fanev-
dress ball at Boland's homestead, Paul Perrin in-
cluded Paul was an habitual tenor—a plump warbler
with shins like a stork, a large, pink face, and
profuse, black, curling locks. He prided himself
on.his ability to impersonate fat females, and made
up an excellent representation of the late Wilson
Barrett s grandmother. It was in this striking char-
acter that Paul elected to appear at Boland’s frivol
on the night of March 12, but P. Perrin was so
long titivating his figure and sweetening his expres-
sion and complexion that the rest of the party
drove off without him, leaving him the option of
walking or wasting his sweetness on the desert air.
aul walked, and, being a city-bred tenor with small
bushcraft, mixed his bearings so inextricably that
by 10 p.m. he found himself a lost, lorn female
in the general desolation. He was a hopeless stray
entirely surrounded by trees, struggling on in his
hampering garments, without knowledge of whence
or whither, and the farther he went the more sud-
denly he came to nowhere. At about six o’clock
next morning Jim Fisher, conductor-in-chief of
three teams taking machinery up to the Nip-and-Tuck
came upon a large, bedraggled woman collapsed in
the shelter of a rock. Fisher gathered her up with
what ceremony he had knowledge of, and wrestled
her back to camp in short stages. There four other
rough men, their sympathies stirred to the deepest
jy the spectacle of feminine distress, with its feet
g'von out, and its hat despondingly over its eye
rushed to offer service. Fisher’s camp couldn’t do
too much for the poor, misplaced lady. It waited on
her hand and foot, it revived her with weak whisky
and comforted her with abundant tea. It warmed
l ee > , and restored her hat to a becoming
angle, cooked her a special breakfast, and was all
lomage and solicitude, giving her her meal on a
special bed made up of all the available bedding, and
behaving generally towards the limp dame like a
large family of brothers. In the earlier part of the
interview Fjsher even devoted 15 minutes to the task
of tenderly chafing the fat hand of the buxom waif
with a vague idea that that was the proper measure
to take to restore vitality, or geniality or something,
then the gallant company made up a sort of nest
for the hapless matron on the spring trap, and
Tisher drove her tenderly all the way to ? Green
Ilouse, Happy Valley, and delivered her into the
hands of the proprietress. “You’ll want to buck
Tim UP Th I<?S ha . d , a bad time > P° or woman,” said
I, 1 ' . Tbe Proprietress missed Paul’s signal and
burt ed the truth “It’s not a woman,”X’said
a man - 14 s Mr. Paul Perrin, the tenor ”
h,?tr t ? ? ” S3id PiBher Bot down from
his trap but three men held him. It seemed advisable
James did not struggle against impossible odds.’
e climbed back into his vehicle and drove off
Three hours later Jim Fisher and his four mates
reached Green House on horses. They asked for Paul
Perrin, tenor. They wanted him badly. “I rubbed
his hand for half an hour,” said Jim “I fed the
cow with oatmeal,” wailed Ryan. Every man had
his complaint. The proprietress explained that Mr
Perrin had left to catch the train to Melbourne'
Fisher and his four were just half a second too late
at the station, but as Jim’s gang is going on a trip
to the city presently, Melbourne may be a tenor
short this winter. enor
BENNO SMITH: “Dray it outer 'er, S al. Go yer ’artiest. Lay yer ears back an' top the
pail or yer ain't no skirt of mine.”
“Matey”: Cannot tell “Masamis” (P>.
2(>/3/’l4) where the water hyacinth first' heaved Jts
petals above water. Can tell him it grows quicker
than the progeny of the rabbit grandfather. But what
about exploiting it? The plant has strong fibres, and
should be of great value for textile purposes. The
fibre from the stalk, after being dried, makes very fair
rope and twine, as well as coarse thread. It is tena-
cious and takes dye rapidly; also, it has been proved
to yield more fibre from the green stems (41 per
cent.) than sisal (3J to 4 per cent.). Why shouldn’t
that eternal skiter, Private Enterprise, test the hya-
cinth’s capacity for outing jute? How about drink-
ing to the new company’s health—The Hyacinth
Fibre and Textile Corporation, Ltd. ?
* * * "
“Sarto” : I have often lain awake o’ nights
listening to the rehearsals of a Frogs’ Glee Club in an
adjacent waterhole. And grand company I found it
too on a dark, lonely night in the tent. Each
“croaker” seems to know when (and when not) to
croak, under the experienced baton, I suppose, of some
old Bully Glee Master. I would strongly ad.vise anyone
suffering from insomnia to catch about four frogs,
teach them to croak in turn, put them under his bed,
and then try to lie awake. The other night I went
out to see if there was any chance of Parliament
dissolving, or rather of the weather breaking up,
when I trod on something soft. I looked round to
find the tiny child that began to cry just then, .when
the frog hopped away and the crying ceased. What
I have often mistaken for the faint crying of a little
child has turned out to come from nothing but a
big frog, llow, when, where or why they do it I
know not.
* * * *
“A.M.L.”: The aboriginals on the McAr-
thur Kiver (N. Territory) had never seen an engine
working. At a small saw-mill there the driver re-
cently fixed a broken old skull on top of the whistle.
Some natives gathering round he ’called their attention
to it, and pulled the cord. The skull started bobbing
up and down, with steam coming out of it in all
directions, and letting out, as they thought, a hideous
screech. The tribe gave one horrified glance at it
and started running. A few days afterwards some of
its members passed through Daly Waters still run-
ning, and a week later a few shadowy figures were
seen to dive into the water at Wyndham, holding
their hands to their ears as if to shut out the howls
of the 12 five-legged bulldogs of Sheol.
* * * *
“The Pariah” : In 1910 I wrote thus to
The Bulletin concerning the planting of the Otway
(Vic.) sand-drift with marram: “It is debated
whether the sand will beat the marram or vice
versa.” In conversation with an official who has just
been through on a tour of inspection I learned that
the marram won in the third year, and that inland
the drift is flattening out. (It used to reach 60ft.
in height.) Where the shifting ford on the Aire
Kiver used to keep the traveller's nerves on edge is
a summer depth of 10ft. This has cleared the” bar
at the mouth of the river. As a result, two blocks
in the Calder swamp, round which we found it im-
possible to measure more than half-way, are now
drained and growing strawberry clover. I’ve often
heard the utility of marram grass debated, hence
this par.
Oibi” : In the boom days of the agricul-
tural industry in Papua, estate managers experi-
mented considerably with the growth of minor pro-
ducts of other tropical countries. The most success-
ful of these scientists was in charge of a plantation
not many miles distant from Port Moresby. He
allowed himself to believe that he had discovered a
valuable specie of what he termed “ramie fibre.”
Exercising the greatest attention to his crop in the
nurseries, his efforts were rewarded with pronounced
success. As to whether he ever planted out a large
area of his newly-found fibre I am at a loss to say,
but there is now spread all along the roads of the
district innumerable acres of this never-to-be-suffi-
ciently-accursed commodity. So dense is the crop
that I am sure the pioneer would be elated over the
success of his carefully-nursed plant of a short de-
cade back. But he has fled to avoid the multitude
of popular applause and left his glory behind him.
The awful thing wasn’t ramie or anything resembling
it-
PRACTICAL.
HIT: “But surely, my dear girl, you prefer
intellect to money."
SUN: "Yes; but I doubt if the tradesmen do.”
Ei rant : I called at a boundary rider’s
hut outside of Derby (W.A.). When T was leaving- I
inquired if there was any spare reading to be had.
'Veil, said the bushie, “I don’t read much meself
but there s plenty of readin’ in the box in the
corner.” _ The lot of books in the box were-one
seedsmans catalogue, one wrapper off a fruit salt'
bottle, two patent pill almanacs three rears old and
six jam labels. ’
(Continued on page 24.)
GUM TREES AND ALDERMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
falter Burley Griffin, designer of the Federal
Capital, referred, in effect, to Australia’s best known
- -„, y ° u , e-at _ big beautiful gum.” Alderman
at I f st ru " ht s meeting of the Hogsby Council
nertv S S £ me ? 1 UIll Itrces 1 trces °n the council’s pro-
W K C j’,, he said > should be cut down. “They
e, said Alderman Grunt, “ordinary, ugly, common
gum trees. —Sydney Sun. common
The gay gums wave their green umbrellas—
Green umbrellas that seek the sky.
Out. of the branches green rosellas—
Pantaloons of the free air fly.
Over the green umbrellas swaying,
Offering shelter, safety, ease,
Fly the birds, while an earth-thing braying
Talks at length of “them ugly trees.”
The tall gums wave their green umbrellas—
Wave them gaily on ev’ry breeze;
While an alderman talks to his “fellers”
Somewhere down by their well-browned knees.
He bulges out where no bulge should be;
He sags—yet seems inclined to burst
And urges death for each queenly tree
W hen he, ’tis plain, should be murdered first.
N.S.W.
AXE.


GUARANTEE EVERY SUIT THEY MAKE
We have faith in the Clothes we make —and
stand behind every garment. We plan, cut
and make to avoid disappointments, and
take pains In closely watching every little
detail so that such happenings are impossible;
but— should you not be perfectly satisfied we
will willingly take back the Suit and
refund your money.
Our Tailored Suits
to Measure for
63]-
are well made and correctly tailored —not a
detail overlooked, while the style and snap
of cut are characteristic of the highest
tailoring ideals.
OJR SUITINSS for the coming season
are restricted to guaranteed ALL WOOL
Materials of Special Attractiveness in Weave
and Pattern—
the best suit proposition
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
Write for Patterns and Self-Measure Forms —
Post Free to any address.
Our New Winter Catalog Wl4 is Now Ready.
Your Copy will be posted on application.
M\ Iff
HlA
*4 V\
ivii
MELBOURNE’S PREMIER STORE,
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED
BOURKE STREET.
k
rpESM
He
pf
(Concentrated)
Fresh Fruit
Fountain Syrups
Realising that our success depends upon the
prosperity of every Soda Fountain —which
means the success of every owner —we have
assured this result by means of our CON-
CENTRATED FRUIT JUICES. No finer
Syrups have ever been placed at the dis-
posal of the Soda Fountain Trade. The
choicest of fruit is used in its manufacture
—much of which is grown under contract-
arid only fresh, ripe fruit of uniform quality
and flavor is selected.
The perfection of the process of extracting
the juices retains to the full that luscious,
pleasing flavor, so delicious and satisfying.
Soda Fountain owners cannot afford to serve inferior drinks. If the drinks are
not of the Quality kind, they will be turned down —and you cannot afford to allow
patrons to pass by.
XE.’/SON’S FRUIT SYRUPS, being highly concentrated, are exceedingly
economical—a few pints making as much syrup as gallons of any other kind. You
will be well advised to get rid of your old-style syrup, and serve only NELSON’S
CONCENTRATED FRUIT JUICES —the drink that delights the customers,
and makes them call for more.
Instal a NELSON’S “ICELESS” INTERIOR SODA FOUNTAIN. It means
you are equipped with the mightiest lever to pull business, and make big profits,
obtainable. By ordering early, you will avoid any possible disappointment
through delay, as well as save in cost. Orders for next season are coming in
fast already. So don’t be behind your competitors—give them the lead.
Write us at once for full information. Your inquiry will be promptly attended to.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD
219 George Street (Circular Quay), Sydney
Agents—NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. Ltd., 124 Roma Street, BRISBANE.
A. B. HADDEN, 35 Barrack Street, PERTH.
wr *m
m
LI
am
Type F.C.
lEMENS
D.G. Cinematograph-Generators
H ave been specially designed to furnish a steady voltage under
all operating conditions and to work at high efficiency. This
means low operating expense.
They require the minimum of attention, and embody superior
constructional features which are the outcome of Siemens’
extensive experience.
Ring-lubricated bearings and thorough ventilation ensure cool
and practically silent running.
SIZES IN STOCK: 20 to 114 amperes at 110 volts.
D on’t let a penny stamp stand between you and information
concerning this F.C. type of generator. Get your request
for literature in to-day’s post.
Siemens Bros. Dynamo Works L‘i
42 Bridge St., Sydney—s 9-61 William St., Melbourne
Telegraphic Address: “SIEMENS,” Sydney or Melbourne.


Pi
BBS mXU
*22 Rim Fire Cartridges
SHORT. LONG. LONG RIFLE.
No Corrosion.
Slight Pressure and High Velocity.
Uniformity Guaranteed.
Highest Grade of English Manufacture
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William Stree/,
MELBOURNE.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY. [l
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident S Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SUFFERED ACUTELY.
“For about three months I suffered acutely from
liver trouble,” writes Mr. W. H. Capon, Turil-
ville, Turill, N.S.W. “Mr. T. McDermott, of McDer-
mott & Son, recommended me to try Chamberlain’s
Tablets, which I did. They were the only medicine
that could relieve me —-in fact, they completely cured
me very quickly.”*
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
THE 1.0. Aa
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
ā
45'
roiptx v
tMASCULAfOR.
mil" SAFETY”
Emasculitor
does away with all
risk of bleeding:.
Postage Free 45/-
My "Hints on Castrating ”
enable any man used to Stock
to out with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Bams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of 39/. to 50/-
Emasculators from
Zoeller's “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bic of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q-
S end for eomplete
Veterinary Catalog-
It's FREE
South Australia, through an unusually hot
and dry autumn, is having its worst vintage for years,
probably little more than half as good as that of
1913. It will pretty certainly be less than 2J
million gallons of wine, and if the distillers use up
their usual two millions the balance is trifling.
Anyway, the home market will not get it. The big
makers say that the one thing which London won’t
stand is any break in continuity of supplies, and,
sooner than damage the connection they have built
up there they will let the land that grows the stuff
go without.
“8.8. R.”: He was a bad cook. In fact. I
don’t think he was a cook at all. On the electoral
roll he was described as a piano-tuner. As a piano-
tuner I knew nothing of his abilities. As a cook
he was a blank. Also he was careless, not to say
dirty. He would not make yeast bread. We stood
his second-class dampers for a couple of days, and
then sent our representative to him. The piano
cook listened patiently to the rep’s timid plea for
yeast bread and then consigned the rep. to the Eternal
Bakehouse. The next day, when everyone except his
nibs was up at the shed, a travelling cook who was
looking for work called at the hut. As soon as our
operator scented a possible rival he hurried along
with the information that he’had changed his mind
and would make the bread. So far so good ; and
the wandering cook wandered on. Yeast bread takes
time to make, and when no bread turned up the
next day nothing was said ; but when the bread
famine continued into the second day we thought
that it was time to act. When the rep. tackled the
cook the reply he got was that his (the cook’s) was
a very changeable disposition, and on second thoughts
he had decided not to make the bread. Then we just
had to sack him. However he bore no ill towards
us, and said he would leave us plenty of tucker to
go on with. He kept his word. He got hold of the
galvanised iron washing tub —it held about 10 gallons
—and rinsing it out, at least I suppose he rinsed it
out, he left it full of blanc-mange.
INSUFFICIENTLY CLAD.
THE SHOPWALKER : " Mr. Jones, this lady
requires clothing."
“Maorilandlubber”: A M.L. farmer of my
acquaintance was approached the other day by his
grown-up son and requested to spar up some money.
“Whatter y’ want money for?” said the old bloque,
controlling himself with an effort. “Wanter buy a
watch,” was the answer. “A watch!” roared the un-
dutiful parent. “Don’t I call you when it’s day-
light? Aren’t you always called for meals? And
when it’s dark you know it’s time t-o knock off!
What the L do you want a watch for ?”
THE OUTWARD CURVE.
"Mr. Cantor is such an enthusiastic equestrian that 1 believe he must have been born in
the saddle."
“ Yes, his legs look like it."
“Leo Lear”: In rooting over the continent
for national subjects Abo-scribes have overlooked
the commonest, largest and most characteristic of
all the Australian bird families, namely, the honey-
eaters. Only one of the world’s 251 species is found
outside the Australian ornithological region ; and
it is somewhere in the East Indies. Nature worked
overtime in moulding the honey-eaters, and turned
out a product with a brush tongue and a long,
curved bill to enable the owner to collect honey from
the indigenous flowering gums. The family is such a
varied and widely distributed one
that it naturally contains beauty and
plainness, harshness and song. The
commonest of all is probably the
noisy minah, a true honey-eater,
though, like most of his cousins, he
lives not by sweets alone, , but pur-
sueth the insect to his cost. The
wattle-bird (the largest of the family)
and the uncouth-voiced leather-head
are among the most unattractive
members, especially in the vocal line.
But who, on seeing the rich greens
or bright yellows of the white-
bearded, yellow-tufted, helmeted, or
rare Regent honey-eaters hasn’t re-
joiced ? The rich chestnut of the
unique spine-bill (him of the long,
curved proboscis) and the olive of
the bellbird cry for acknowledgment
from good Australians; but for
beauty my vote goes to the gorgeous
scarlet of the sanguineous honey-eater.
In the red bottle-brush flowering
shrubs of Queensland watercourses I’ve
seen this bird in hundreds; though,
but for his sweet song he’d pass undetected on the
bright blossoms he sucks. Most of the honey-eating
tribe build open, hanging nests; but one, the blue-
face, hr.s learnt the value of prepared maternity hos-
pitals, and Mrs. Blue-face retires to the deserted
nest of a babbler when the baby is expected. As
for song, I admit the family contains no Melba.
Still the bellbird heads an operatic troupe far above
the ruck in the bird line. The clear, ringing notes
of the “Greenie,” yellow-plumed, singing and many
other species are typically Australian; and call for
more than passing notice, even in a land where the
greater percentage of birds would be found in the
front row of the chorus, were all the planet’s
feathered tribe lined up at the Ballarat competitions
for adjudication.
The faithful dog once more. A N.S.W.
ploughman, who didn’t like the taste of his sardine
lunch, threw it to his tyke, which obliged him by
eating the lot. Shortly afterwards the animal demon-
strated what might have happened to the ploughman
by expiring. Inscription for the tombstone: “Here
Lies Fido. Without Exactly Intending to do so, he
laid down his Tummy on the Altar of Friendship.”
THE NEGLECTED PROMOTER.
Mr. J. G. Balsillie has applied to the patents
office for provisional letters for his scheme of rain
production. Should the patent be granted, and the
tests prove satisfactory, it is proposed to form a
company.
“Nobody ever thought of floating ME into a
company.”
THE COASTAL COCKY’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Further particulars of the floods at Wollongong
show that thousands of pounds’ worth of damage
has been done. Many families were swamped out,
and numbers of people are homeless. The damage to
Bode’s Hotel is estimated roughly at £lOOO. Many
cows and pigs and large numbers of poultry were
washed away. —Daily paper.
It used to be the curse of drought,
But now it’s too much rain,
That helps to knock the cocky out,
And prove his toil in vain.
Last year he put his faith in spuds,
To make a little pot,
Alas, the rain came down in floods
And gave them all the rot!
The land he grubbed so carefully,
And sowed with grass last week,
Is sliding eastward to the sea,
Along the roaring creek.
The flats are white with new-born lambs
Which perished in the storm,
That swept away the new-made dams
The cocky delved to form.
And every day it’s growing worse;
The sun still holds aloof,
And there’s no sound that makes him curse
Like rain upon the roof.
Too wet to plough, too wet to fence,
Too wet for anything,
He prays the rain will have the sense
To hold up till the spring.
N.s.w.
CRIPPS CLARK.
The Superfluous Parasite and his Sub-
Parasite, or the Flea on his Tail.
The ill-paid clerk was the subject of a recent
dissertation to the N.S.W. Premier, and
everything that was said about his hard lot
had justification behind it. The clerk is
a fertile subject for dissertation. A very
large section of him stands for the incarna-
tion of shabby gentility. He thins early
about the hair, and, too often, he has a
reach-me-down sort of look about the clothes.
He is a dweller in the cheaper suburbs—
rather mild, rather humble, rather Tory, not
madly athletic, and not given to exploration,
insurrection, battle, murder, sudden death,
wife-beating, brigandage, riot, incendiarism,
cattle-stealing, burglary, bushranging, or
piracy on the high seas. He avoids the big,
strenuous vices. History tells of a person
in a bank who developed into one of the most
strenuous generals in Europe, and of a solici-
tor’s clerk who rose to be the hardest soldier
and most uncompromising statesman in the
worried land of Mexico, but these were rare
exceptions. The average clerk is never any-
thing more than what he is, and never
expects to be. Yet, despite his grievances,
all the ill-luck doesn’t come his way. The
ill-paid office drudge is sometimes quite as
well off as his boss except in the one respect,
that, if anything does “turn up,” the boss
gets it, and the drudge doesn’t. But
then, for a certain class of boss nothing ever
turns up. Sometimes he gets along in a
sort of way all his days. Sometimes he
drifts aimlessly and seedily into the Insol-
vency Court, and states that the liabilities
aren’t much, and the assets, consisting chiefly
of the office table, are less. After a long
struggle with Fate, as an agent, or a com-
mission merchant, or an arbitrator, or a dog-
tax adjuster, or a small jobber in cottages and
allotments, or as Australian representative
of Briggs, who makes weepers for funeral
hatbands in Donegal (Ireland), or as the
strenuous local pusher for the very dubious
Threecoughsandasneeze Fire Insurance Co.
of Kherson (Russia), the rent or the gas
bill has bowled him out, and he has thrown
up what remains of the sponge, and hasn’t
thrown it very high, either. Even this
kind of employer seems generally able to find
a clerk, and very often the one thing that
would madden the kind of clerk that this kind
of employer finds would be for the old man
to take him to his bosom and give him a
half-share in the business instead of a small,
fixed remuneration. The boss is an unsuc-
cessful journeyman pirate' on the sea of com-
merce. but he has an office and a door-plate
because, however great a failure he may bo,
he has the instincts of the pirate. His clerk
is the unsuccessful supercargo down below,
and because his instincts are that way he
doesn’t want to come up on deck and begin
pirating on his own account. If it was
possible to have just as many merchants,
importers, financial agents, indent agents,
insurance agents, house agents, company
floaters, fruit-barrow men, bagmen, hawkers,
solicitors, shonkeepers, insurance companies,
banks and other mercantile strugglers as are
required to carry on the business of the com-
munity there would probably be no reason
why the average cauable, full-grown clerk
shouldn’t earn £5OO a year. But too much time
is spent by Jones’s clerk in the unsuccessful
struggle to snatch, for his own and his
employer’s benefit, a twopenny scrap of busi-
ness from the ravening jaws of Brown’s
clerk, while Simpson’s clerk cruises in the
offing with hostile intent. Society badly
needs to eliminate the superfluous city strug-
and force him to take to some produc-
tive occupation, so that the country may
grow more, and import less, and borrow less
money to pay for its imports, and do more
real work and not so much unreal hanging
around. The proportion of the Australian
population which is engaged in “commerce”
is over the odds, and commerce, when it is
finally resolved into its component parts, is
merely a combat to find out the largest num-
ber of people who can handle a pound of
tripe on its way from the cow to the con-
sumer. The least successful of the many
agents who try to intercept the tripe natur-
ally makes little, and his clerk, who wouldn’t
be his clerk save that he lacks even the enter-
prise or vigor to be a humble tripe inter-
ceptor on his own account, makes less.
Meanwhile there are altogether too many
finger-prints on the pound of tripe.
“Lantana”: N. S. Wales’s Minister for
Public Instruction has got his travelling-school well
started. Two of them are on the tracks, one in the
Hay district and the other out Inverell way. The
school consists of a four-wheeled van covered with
a hood. Provision is made for lockers and cupboards,
the doors of which form a false floor, and so serve
as a bed for the pedagogue. The equipment includes
blackboard, writing materials, school readers, maps,
atlases, kindergarten materials and records. One of
the schools has been in operation at Narrabri for
some time, and the one which started out from In-
verell last week will visit King’s Plains, Yetman,
Gravesend and other parts of the district, staying
from one to three weeks at each place. It will take
eight weeks to complete the circuit. Then the teacher
will return, revise work left during the previous
visit, give another week or two’s instruction, and set
work for the students to complete before his next
visit.


-sse&aziwsm
I i
m m
.
' '*
■■ ~ ■•■ .
. * •:• • . >V
&PSW
mm
mm
iwmm
-•
ii
j&A m
:: : ‘ 1 - 7
77
i W
• •
■
t I
T v
M
msk
- ■-’■sm*
m
n
. Vi
2^..;
/•!
f ■' . ,
,
——
. d(«Hi
'■■ -
'
ii
EKS
k
- 'T- 1 ; : <
SHITH. •
. - ■
CfULT
/
. c
o


K
m
J Grand Prix
fnferna/iona/
NS
jUec/icalGoncfrvss • 1*313*
/een awarded io
'smxbcmt
Let Sanatogen Make You Healthier.
You wili certainly be healthier,
stronger, and more vigorous, if
you take a few weeks’ course of
Sanatogen.
“ Since taking Sanatogen, I am
really better—a brighter, stronger
tone altogether,’’writes Lady Muir.
Even after the first few doses—
which, by the way, we will send
you free of charge—you will
notice a marked improvement in
your condition.
Your nervous system, in par-
ticular, will be wonderfully in-
vigorated. Witness this statement
by Madame Sarah Grand, the fa-
mous authoress of “ The Heavenly
Twins” and other well-known
novels:
“ I pin my faith to Sanatogen,
because it certainly restored me
to health in the worst nervous
break-down I ever had. It is a
building -up process, but not
‘ jerry-building’— the work is done
to last.”
In Digestive Troubles,
etc.
Yes, the good which Sanatogen
docs is lasting, not only in a
nervous break - down but in
various other conditions. For
example, Mrs. Kensington, wife of
Mr. Justice Kensington, Lahore,
India, writes : “ Sanatogen is the
best help for digestive troubles
that I have come across. Mr.
Kensington and I have also found
it a wonderful reviver and tonic.”
In Anaemia.
The effects of Sanatogen in
poverty of the blood are described
as follows by Dr. Ferchmin,
physician to the Czar of Russia:
“My daughter, who was very
anaemic, has been greatly benefited
by the use of Sanatogen. Her
appetite improved, her weight in-
creased, and the colour of her
skin became healthier.”
Equally remarkable are the ef-
fects of Sanatogen in the case of
weakly children of all ages.
Public Health, one of the promi-
nent medical papers, contains an
article by a well-known doctor
who says : ‘‘l determined to try
Sanatogen on a child suffering
from really pitiable debility. The
change in her condition at the
end of a fortnight was truly won-
derful. Appetite was improved,
diarrhoea had stopped, the cheeks
were rosy, and her weight had
increased by 1-lb. 10-oz.”
Sanatogen is of the greatest
value before and after confinement,
because nothing is so effectual for
building up and strengthening
the system. It is also strongly
recommended for nursing mothers
to ensure that the milk shall be
abundant and healthy.
Other uses of Sanatogen—for
example, in Neuralgia, Nervous
Headache, and Insomnia, etc. —
are too numerous to mention here.
Send a post-card, men-
tioning this paper, for a
free interesting Booklet,
“How to Live Healthily.”
Address : A. Wulfing and
Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Sanat-
ogen is sold by all Chemists,
from 2/Sd. per tin.
One Good Friday.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh! Good Friday’s sodden buns,
And the booming Easter guns,
And the Show crowd tramping heavy through
the town !
Oh! the tents amongst the trees,
And the Easter tragedies!
So the pageant to Eternity goes down.
Ev’ry year it is the same;
In a manner limping—lame—
We repeat ourselves like IPist’ry—only
worse;
And I would that I were dead,
’Midst this substitute for bread,
When we waste again ’neath Custom’s dullest
curse.
But one past Good Friday stays,
In old Mem’ry’s thick’ning haze,
Like a landmark viewed from something far
at sea;
Twas the day the madman stayed,
And with maddest discourse made
Our bun luncheon last from mid-day until
tea.
I remember how we sat,
Each as silent as a bat,
While the evening shadows crept into the
room,
And each white, familiar face
leaded slowly in its place,
While the Talker gabbled faster in the gloom.
We were drunk and drugged with words
That flew from his mouth like birds —
Words of travel—words of visions—words of
fire;
He had laid on us a spell
Midst the buns that sag and swell,
And we listened in a silence drear and dire.
In that parlor without light.
At the threshold of the night,
When the joyless day was done, he talked no
more ;
And; bleak panic raised my hair,
At the rattle of a chair,
And the scraping of a match upon the door.
Though I’m older now and glad.
That Good Friday, dark and mad,
Stands up straightly like a beacon stiff and
stark;
So each year my mind must turn,
Though to newer things I yearn,
To that madman talking—talking in the
dark—
In the haunted, yawning, lost, back-parlor
dark.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGOUS EDITOR.
The Bob Blouse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rTI HE woman with the black eye and
skimpy clothes sat on her 'verandah,
sewing industriously. A few doors
away down the same side of the street
another woman leaned listlessly against the
door jamb, taking a tired view of the few
people who passed by. At last she came
along with her arms folded, and a purpose-
less, awkward walk, as if she had no ulterior
motive for her progression. Reaching the
other woman’s '!ou«e she leaned against the
verandah post.
“Sewin’?” she said.
The other woman looked up with a faint,
encouraging smile, nodded her head, and
then went on with her work. After a few
stitches she looked*up again and said:
“You’re the new woman who’s taken No.
5, ain’t you?”
“Yes.”
“Thought yer was. Do yer like the
’ouse?”
“It seems orright.”
“Oh, it’s orright, on’y it’s damp.”
She sewed awhile, and then said:
“Everybody who lives in it six munce is
buried with consumption, or can’t walk
with the rheumatics after.”
“It won’t matter to us,” said the new
woman at No. 5. “We never stay so long
in an ’ouse.” And then as an afterthought:
“What with rent en that.”
“What does yer ’usband do?”
“Bread carter.”
“Mine’s a blacksmith’s striker. What
wages do your ’usband get?”
“Thirty-five bob.”
“Mine gets more’n that, on’y for the kids
an’ bein’ out of work a good deal. Black-
smiths is funny.”
“How?”
“Since me ’usband got converted he don’t
last so long. You see, blacksmiths like a
striker who’ll join ’em in a drink at eleven
o’clock en when they knock off. It would
be orright if he could get a job with a
blacksmith that’s been converted. He’s a
good striker. Does your ’usband drink?”
“Sometimes,” answered the bread-carter’s
wife. “But he’s not so bad in that way.
Pie always gives me warning first so’s I can
be prepared.”
“My ’usband used to boose up everything
before he joined the Salvation Army.”
She stitched on for a while, and then laid
down her work on her lap and looked
thoughtful. “Sometimes I think that I liked
him better before he gave up sin. He usedn’t
to knock me about at all in them days.”
“Does he now?”
"Well, you see, its’ partly me own fault,
and ’e on’y does it when we have a barney.
En when me dander’s up I says things I
oughtn’t to. He’d like me to belong to the
Army too, but I stick to the church. Yer
see, if yer cuts a poor mouth with the
church ladies they often give yer some of
their fashionable clothes when they don’t
want ’em enny more, en ’e is always so
suspicious if I puts on ennything new.”
The other woman nodded understandingly.
“They’re like that when you’ve bin mar-
ried a year or two,” she said. “I’ve ’ad a
few shindies meself through the same thing.
It’s like tryin’ to get blood out of a stone
to get a new ’at. They reckons that you’ll
ruin ’em with your extravagance. Did he
do that?” —indicating the discolored eye. •
The woman nodded her head and then
went on rapidly with her sewing. In a
little while she laid her work down again.
"One of the church ladies give me an
’obble skirt last Saturday,” she said. “It
was real smart, en wanted no alterin’. He
didn’t see it till the next day, at meetin’ in
the afternoon, when I went round to listen
en fill in an hour or so, as I sometimes do.
I saw the Captain’s eye fixed ’ard on me,
en then he turned round en said something
to me ’usband, en when me ’usband looked
at me I knew I w’as goin’ to cop out for
something or other. He came down, lookin’
black in the face as ennything, en he said :
‘What de yer mean cornin’ here en disgracin’
me?’
“En I said, ‘l’m not disgracin’ yer.’ En
he said, ‘You are, cornin’ here with nuthin’
on.’ En I said, ‘l’m just as dressed as you
are.’ En he said, ‘Why, yer can see all yer
figger.’ En I said, ‘l’ve got two petty-coats
underneath the ’obble,’ I said. Well, one
word led to another, en we made a reg’lar
scene at the meetin’. En he so exaspurated
me at last I said, ‘What about the bob
blouse?’ ”
“What did yer mean by that?”
“Oh, nuthin’. It’s something I alius brings
up when we have a proper barney.”
She went on sewing awhile.
“S’pose I shouldn’t bring it up, but he
makes me feel that mad,” she said at last.
The bread-carter’s wife nodded encourag-
ingly.
“It’s something what ’appened in his sin-
ful days,” said the woman with the black
eye. “He useter boose every penny he could
beg, borrey or steal, as the sayin’ is, an’
things was pretty ’ard on us just then, what
with butchers en bakers en landlords wantin’
money. Sometimes we useter go ’ungr.y. I
useter be fair ashamed to go out in the street,
I was so shabby. One Saturday night when
’e come ’ome earlier than usual I went
through his pockets while he wuz asleep en
I found a bob, en I went out with it to see
if I couldn’t get a bit of enjoyment too. I
wuz lookin’ at some things in the stalls at
Paddy’s Market, en a blouse took me fancy,
en 1 said to the Jew woman, ‘ ’Ow much?’
En she said, ‘A bob.’ En I bought it.”
She paused thoughtfully a little, and then
went on.
“Next day I put the bob blouse on, en
when me ’usband saw it, ’e said, ‘Where did
you get that new- blouse?’ En I said, ‘lt
ain’t a new blouse. It’s a second-’and one.’
En ’e said, "Ow did yer get it?’ En I said,
‘I didn’t, get it ’ow think, ennyway.’
En ’e said, ‘l’ll break yer jaw if yer don’t
tell me.’ En I said, ‘Well, if yer must know,
I bought it in Paddy’s Market for a bob.’
E. said, ‘Where’d yer get the bob?’ En I
said, ‘I took it out of your pocket when you
vvuz boosed last night.’ He said, ‘You’re a
liar. It 1 d bad a bob I wouldn’t have cuine
’ome so early.’ _ En he gave me a terrible
’ammerin’, the first since we wuz married.”
'■’E ougliter be ashamed of ’imself,” said
the other woman.
“‘I kep’ it in, and next Saturday I got ’im
to come to the market, en I found the Jew
woman who sold me the blouse, en I asked
her before me ’usband, en she said that she
remembered selling me the blouse for a bob,
en dirt cheap at the price. Well, me ’usband
didn’t say nuthin’. He was very quiet, en
from that day to this I never knew whether
he believed that I took the bob outer his
pocket or not. All I knows is that he
didn’t drink enny more that night, en next
week he came in en said, ‘Liz, I’ve bin con-
verted to the Salvation Army. Things will
go better now.’ ”
A more thoughtful expression came into
her eyes, and she leaned her chin on one
palm and looked before her.
‘‘l don’t know,” she said. “Sometimes I
almost wishes he had never joined it.’*
“You’d think it would make him better,”
said the other woman.
“Maybe it has, but you see he wuz never
one of them men who jawed yer when he
wuz in drink. He wuz always merry en
laughin’ till he went to sleep. Since he’s
joined the Army we never have a bit of a
laugh or jollification. If I look pleasant he
quite puts a damper on me. If I buy a bit
of pink ribbon for me neck he reckons it’s a
manifestution of evil in me, en if I have a
happy feelin’ come over me (as it will some-
times) he inst’ly wants me to kneel down
with him en wrestle in prayer, which I
always do to humor him, not that I think
it does much good. You see, I’m not a good
woman. At the same time I’m not a bad
woman. I’m one of the betweens, as the
sayin’ is. I’d like to have a ’at with ostrich
feathers in it, and patent tanned boots with
high heels en open-worked stockings, en I’d
like to be in company, if there’s a bit of a
sing-song, or go to bioscopes, or a theayter,
if there’s ennything good on; but I keep as
straight as I can, en if I have a doubt if I’m
goin’ too far I asks me ’usband if it is sinful.
But outside the real bad sins what never
pull me at all, ’e don’t know till he has talked
it over with the Captain, en it alius seems
to me that the Captain puts ’im up to a
good deal of devilment.”
She stitched awhile, and then said, peev-
ishly :
“When I first met ’im en useter walk out
together, if I put on a new bit o’ finery he
always useter say, ‘That’s nice, Lizzie. You
do look pretty in it.’ After we’d been mar-
ried a few years you’d think I wuz breakin’
up the ’ome if I turned a old skirt to make
it look a bit new.”
“It’s the way with all of them,” said the
bread-carter’s wife. Then a long silence
ensued, the blacksmith’s striker’s wife doing
her sewing more rapidly. The bread-carter’s
wife said at length : “He must ’ave landed
you a daisy to give you a eye like that.”
The woman who was seated looked up
patiently.
“He always does if I brings up the bob
blouse.”
ROBERT BROTHERS.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
Chunder Bull-fighting in Spain.
-'4%
- r"
\ A-
J ■
J;X. I €55 f X
s j'i ; ;
■ ?:!2<i.: ; ,'&y.
' i
; M* '^.^,,M
* •U- '%&&**?*'*
1 1-' '
i >/
!'
-sSF.
«5?
■r&“ : «v
i
r •^
" __J~
Xc : ‘
v J# r 'VV ’A-lZiteZys •■*:<.; r/
' ' '
v - * * J . Jjj*'
;-V*'- ' N
y-^ct
*35
j^SSs
/
g&i
i
afes
I
a
P
> v;
O£M
, : ' Oti
i i
m
m :
■
m
■>' : --y
X
m
7
' ;
mm
K'“«
/
/
ss
X
“.*7
/
✓ x
PS
/
X;
/
V
i:4
#.<S
4#-
•%S
s4%w jL-a&Sfeji
*4
33*
K^W///
W*„y j&c^4ete! i JfrF‘ 'ifJ&. *
y
■j&'jz '.
/
>'X
/ X
Jzrjr
r&m
e S
■ /
it
Oobrft, &/>e Boot PolisK
Chancier Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Wins the
Senoritas through
His cool darino-
In the nno
Where the wild bulls
Charge and swings
o
See the mad thin
Wheel and slide !
Chunder nimbly
Steps aside,
While the bull
Shoots off like rain
Foiled by COBRA
O nee again.
D


Sugar
plated,
Scuttle, Pure Silver -
Richly Hand Engraved,
30/-
Oak Biscuit Barrel, Pure
Silver-plated Mounts, 25/-
■
Sugar and Cream Stand, Pure
Silver-plated Frame, Fancy Floral China,
20/-
AUN DEES'
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER •
Beautiful Silverware.
We are showing here some of our very newest and choicest designs.
You will note that each idea is chaste, away from the ordinary
quite delightful for a Wedding Gift. Many thousands are depicted
in our handsome Silverware Catalogue. Let us send it you.
Double Jam Dish and Spoons,
Handsome Floral China Dishes. Silver-
plated Frame, with Spoons, 12/6;
without Spoons, 10/6.
Butter Dish, Pure Silver-plated
Satin Finish. Hand Engraved, Fitted
with Patent Glass Drainer, 30/-
fill!
Honey jar, Pure Silver-plated,
rr/ft
Four-Branch Flower Stand, Silver-
plated Frame. Golden-tinted Glass Tubes,
15/0.
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
Cake Basket, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, Richly Burnished and Pierced, 25/-
Vegetable Dish, Pure
plated, Nickel Silver,
Burnished, 35/-
Silver-
Richly
Toast and Butter Combination,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver. Richly
burnished, 15 /6.
Pickle jar, Pure Silver-
plated, Out Glass, 25/-
Egg Cruet, Pure Silver-plated
Richly Burnished and Embossed
Rose Bowl, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Embossed,
with Ebonv plinth, 30/ _
Dinner Cruet, Pure Silver-
plated, 12/6.
807-817 GEORGE STREET (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
WINFRED CIGARETTES
w
nT
ps
R
E
D
C
i
G
A
m
f
v\ ■
%
. !
SJ/2AWN TOGF/Y\VtXG
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
N
I
A
io
FOR
6°
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIQUE IN QUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO GO., LTD., London .Eng
20
FOR
1/


Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, Bth April, 1914.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL
COLLEGE.
Application for Admission as Cadet-
Midshipman.
APPLICATIONS for admission as Cadet-
Midshipman to the Royal Australian
Naval College will be received by the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne, up to
30th June, 1914, from those boys born in
1901.
Forms of application and full particulars
may be obtained on application to the Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne; or to
the District Naval Officers, Brisbane, Edge-
cliff, Sydney, Port Melbourne, Largs Bay
(S.A.), Fremantle or Hobart, as the case
may be.
S. A. PETIIEBRIDGE,
Secretary.
Please yourself
by making use of
suck a satisfactory
method of cleaning
the teeth as
fag
It is pleasant to know tkat you
kave polisked so nicely tkose teetk
tkat skow.
It is satisfactory to feel tkat
your teetk are all properly cared
for —tkorougkly cleansed witk
tkis antiseptic dentifrice.
And it leaves suck a pleasant
feeling of freskness m tke moutk.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co.,
Manchester, Eng, .
.
Restore the voice wiih
Ivans
FORMULA OF THE UVERPQQL THROAT MOSRITAt
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
Pastilles
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Madame Tetrazzini writes:—“l thank you for the
boxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
IS
LOCAL
prof)
US)/
PATRIOTISM
I .Your
Aim? c
Then have
|% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
1
T
Operation Avoided by Using
ă
“For 23 years I suffered with an enlargement of the wrist. Three medical men
pronounced it incurrable without an operation. A friend advised me to use SOLOMON
SOLUTION, which I did—only a few jars—and it has perfectly cured me. It is the
best liniment I have ever used.”
(Signed) Jas. E- Cheveli,
Bungerang North.
Obtainable in 2/6 Jars from Chemists or Storekeepers, or post free for 3/- from
a SOLOMON COX & SON, 439 Bourka St., Melbourne, £
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NANP
The National
flonthly, 6d.
.Missing: Friends.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial. Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches. Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
rail IE PUBLIC TRUSTEE for the
JL Northern Territory, Darwin, desires
information in regard to the relatives of the
late GARRETT EDMUND BARRY, who
died at Coomarie Springs, near Tanami, in
dune, 1910.
m-
lO*
*3
COOV.WC CB
t»» v
wuwwj*
THIS
gives
and
Strength to all ages
Horlick’s Malted Milk, the
Food-Drink which gives
health, is equally suitable
and beneficial to all
ages —the feeding infant,
the growing child, the
grown man, the aged, the
invalid of all ages and both
sexes, all keep their strength
on Horlick’s.—lt is so pre-
pared that it is ready for
immediate use and requires
no cooking. —Get Horlick’s
at the Soda Fountain.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
A Magnificent Romance of AUSTRALIAN Life!
UNSTABLE AS WATER
By BOYD CABLE
m -
111
mm
I HUMMi
I If
:
f
' I;"
■ MM
,
iw
: m
11
I:
As he came alongside, the rider leaned out and snatched at the leaving tail beside him, whipped it m to his tyl~
and with a crash the bullock came down. “Oh!” exclaimed Ess. “What a wonderful rider. ", 10 , ls lt '
“ Naething wonderful,” said Scottie calmly. “But yon's the man 1 ivas speakin’ o’. lhe best horseman
and the worst character on Coolongolong station—Steve Knight. ’
QRAPHIC pen-pictures of a
great drought on a sheep
station, and of an overwhelming
flood that followed, a realistic
description of the life and work of those
battlers of the Outback in whose hardi-
hood, courage and endurance Australia
has such good reason to take pride, and
a Palpitating Human Love Story
of a vivid and entrancing nature —
the love story of a man with a bad
name. All these elements contribute
to make “ UNSTABLE As WATER
indeed worthy to rank with the great
stories that have won everlasting fame
for the “LONDON” Magazine. This
stirring tale will be read with the
keenest delight by every Australian.
LONDON MAGAZINE
The Leading Magazine of its kind in Great Britain. Can he obtained from any newsdealer,
or direct from the Export Department, London Magazine, The Fleetway House, Farringdon
Street, London, England Price (including postage) 10/6 for 12 months, and pro rata.


SECRETS OF A COMPLEXION .
SPECIALIST.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION BY WHICH
A SPECIALIST QUICKLY RE-
STORED HUNDREDS OF RUINED
COMPLEXIONS.
At a recent conference of specialists an
interesting discussion took place in regard
to the ways and means for beautifying and
removing bad complexions, and the experts
in this line, all agreed to the great value of
what is known among specialists as Floxoin
Lotion. A well-known skin and complexion
specialist present gave some wonderful in-
stances of cases where his patients had
restored their disfigured complexions in an
exceedingly short time by applying this
lotion, which consists of two ounces of rose
water, one dram of Tincture Benzoin, and
two ounces Flowers of Oxzoin, and can be
prepared by any chemist, many of whom
keep it put up ready for use under the name
of Floxoin Lotion. He advised the applica-
tion of the lotion night and morning with a
soft cloth or sponge, and said that he had
never known it to fail in remarkably im-
proving the complexion and removing all
skin blemishes in a few days. It is particu-
larly valuable in all cases when the face has
been chapped by exposure to wind and
weather, and quickly restores the soft peach-
like bloom of youth, even to complexions
that have been apparently ruined beyond all
hope of redemption.*
“The PAQUIN”
OF SYDNEY.
FOR ORIGINALITY
OF STYLE.
Off
&•
Ladies' Tailor & Costumier
(Late David Jones),
OCEAN HOUSE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
DANIEL CRAWFORD’S
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE CONNOISSEUR’S FAVORITE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
RUNNING INTO THE ANIMAL.
Notice of motion was given that it is desirable
that steps be taken to protect Australia from the
American Beef Trust, and from extraordinary prices
now charged for meat.
JOSEPH: “Beef Trust? Bee / Trust? Hi don't
see no Beef Trust!”
The N.S.W. Ministry has a capacity for
falling into arrears which has seldom been
eoualled. At the end of March, 1914, when
nine months of the financial year had ex-
pired, the expenditure was almost exactly
£1,000,000 ahead of the revenue. The re-
venue was rather more than £1,000,000 ahead
of that for the corresponding nine months
of the previous year, but even that great
influx of money couldn’t keep the Holman
ship off the rocks.
“Is There Work In Australia?” was the
heading of a Sydney Telegraph clamor last
Monday. Well, there is a little. But if
more goods were made here, and fewer were
imported under a rotten semi-Freetrade
tariff, and there was less money borrowed
and charged to Posterity to pay for the im-
ported goods which prevent Posterity’s
father having a job, there would be a lot
more w T ork in Australia.
“The Financier” writes
The Liberal press tried to scare N.S.W. Governor
Strickland into refusing to assent to the recently-
passed Wharfage Act (which imposes export duties
on wheat, wool and other produce), on the ground
that it is not constitutional, and trespasses on the
Federal domain. Strickland, however, on Attorney-
General Hall’s certificate, gave his assent to the
measure. The merits of the case will doubtless be
argued in the High Court. Wharfage dues, imposed
by a Harbor Trust, and used for the upkeep of the
premises, may be regarded as wharf-rent. Imposed by
a State Government for general purposes, and with no
relation to the cost of maintaining the port, they
look like plain export or import duties, and these are
Federal concerns.
The Victorian Easter Labor Conference
did at least one sane thing when it rejected
the motion to debar employers of all sorts
from any office in the party. The inherent
absurdity of the idea was obvious —it re-
stricted labor representation to wage-earners,
yet debarred these directly they raised
themselves above that status. The weird
idea of quite a number of delegates seemed
to be that manual labor necessarily holds a
monopoly of political wisdom. Yet to carry
out its progressive policy Labor needs brains.
Presumably it fears treachery ; yet the man
who isn’t clever enough to go wrong is too
great a fool to go any way.
THE HAT- TRICK.
As manager of the last tour, Mr. Pawley asked the
Australian Board to give consideration to a proposal
for reimbursing the Marylebone Club in the event of
a loss occurring, and when he arrived in England he
wrote to the Australian body asking that it might
make good the loss that occurred. —News item.
THE 'ROO: “ I'm only too willing to assist
the gentlemen of England.”
THE LION: “ Thanks, awfully. Its deuced
good of you, don tyerknow, old chap.”
The emphatic announcement of N.S.W.
Assistant Treasurer Hoyle that “no matter
how high the wage is,” if it is paid weekly
the receipt meed not be stamped, may or
may not be legal, for Hoyle is a poor sort
of authority. If it is legal it will make a big
hole in the stamp revenue. * Also it will
make a big hole in the temper of the police
force, which is paid fortnightly. Meanwhile
the bald fact remains that, according to the
Act just devised by the Ministry which
Hoyle ornaments, every receipt for £2 or
more must be stamped, and no exemptions
are even hinted at. Assistant-Treasurer
Hoyle may take unstamped receipts from
Bill of the railways on his own authority,
but if the next Government sues Bill for the
penalty on 52 unstamped receipts per annum
that unfortunate person will become wild.
A Chair of Journalism is suggested by
Minister Carmichael as another experiment
(and expense) at Sydney University. After-
all, journalism, not being an exact science,
might be better left alone. Like cadging,
rheumatism, the flotation of wild cats, bald-
ness, lying, the gift of prophecy, and Dan
O’Connor’s style of oratory, it is. a thing
that grows. Very few bright, original jour-
nalists started in the profession. They fell
into it, or else it rose up and surrounded
them. And journalism is of many sorts.
When one professor has been appointed from
the S. M. Herald, and the next one from
Truth, and the third from Splashes, and
the fourth from The Bulletin, and the
fifth from the Australian Hen, and the
sixth from the Watchman, the teaching
will have become mixed. It would be better
to establish a Chair of Public Finance, with
a special regard to the necessity for keeping
the accounts square and not playing the
devil with the sinking fund. Also, a Chair of
Honest Politics might be a good idea.
According to George Ryland, ex-Director
of Lands at Darwin, the Northern Territory
“has a great future, but the path of pro-
gress is beset with tremendous difficulties.
Well, certainly, why shouldn’t it be? Look-
ing back over thousands of years of history
the path of progress was always beset with
tremendous difficulties. Even the sites ot
London and Paris had to be cleared ot
forests and bears and wolves ; and New Aork
had to contend with forests and wolves and
blizzards, and also with Red Indians who
wanted to burn the first Rockefeller alive on
Broadway. Sydney, in its early days, got
down to putting the inhabitants on a mere
scrap of diet and praying for the arrival
of a ship with stores, and it hanged the
person very high who stole J-lb. of flour
from the diminishing stock. Why be a
weeping female and lament about a few
difficulties ?
One of the very workt jokes of the recent
State Premiers’ Conference was their deci-
sion to refer the uniform railway-
gauge question to the. inter-State Com-
mission. The Commission is up to
its back teeth in tariff matters. In
fact, it has enough work ahead, in this
line alone, to keep three Commissions busy
for a couple of years. Even if it is able to
give an opinion by 1916 —which is unlikely
—it will be 1918 before the financial side
of the question is fixed up. Australia may
therefore look forward to the beginning of
this urgent work some time in 1919 (that is,
if it has unusual luck), by which time the
cost of converting the lines will have in-
creased by over 85 per cent. As a mere
side-line it may be noted that the point at
issue was “definitely settled,” at considerable
expense, some time ago, by a committee of
experts, who plumped for the 4ft. BJin.
gauge.
The other day Judge Winnecke, of Vic-
toria, felt called upon to remark that the
law re juries needed amending.
The jurymen in a criminal case
had informed him, after two hours’
consideration, that there was no
chance of an agreement, and he
might as well discharge them. He
said he couldn’t; they must dwell
in retirement for the statutory six
hours. The evident intention > of
the blessed law is that the 12, being
locked in a small room, without
refreshments or amusements, shall
become weary of the business and
each other’s society, and the
majority shall convince the obstrep-
erous minority with the greater
speed because of the unpleasant
conditions —which happened in this
case, for in another couple of
hours the jury returned to
court with, as was naturally to be ex-
pected, a verdict of acquittal. Then, as be-
fore remarked, his Honor made his pene-
trating discovery that something called for
alterations and repairs.
The N.S.W. Railway Department wants
an assistant to the Chief Mechanical Engi-
neer, and the astounding statement is made
that thlVe is nobody in the service “who
possesses the necessary qualifications in re-
gard to experience in the designing of loco-
motives.” The explanation sounds strangely.
A new locomotive isn’t a freak, like a new
religion or a hew constitution or a black
tulip or a fat girl. Except when the De-
partment decides to adopt a fresh design
the new loco, is simply a copy of any other
old craft of its class, and is cut to the same
4ft. BJin. gauge. As an excuse for giving a
good billet to an imported man this excuse
seems a rather poor excuse.
Kaiser William, states the cable, expressed
his devotion to his Fatherland the other
week by voluntarily paying his quota of the
War Tax on Wealth. William coughed up
£200,000. The spectacle of a king contri-
buting to the expenses of his own particular
game of war is about as impressive as the
enthusiasm of a cricketer who buys a new
bat for himself.
Fiji has, during late years, laid in heaps
of colored labor from India —the kind that
Australia’s Brucesmith politicians regard as
just the thing for this country’s Northern
Territory. In fact, it has Brucesrhithed so
lavishly that there are now more than 10
imported Hindus to one white man. The
Hindu came as a cheap temporary laborer,
but he remains as a rather bumptious per-
manent settler and often as a profierty-
owner. We get news of him occasionally—
like this extract from the Western Pacific
Herald (23/3/’l4) :
The position is becoming acute and our police seem
powerless. That -is.. the general opinion in to\vn
[Suva] with regard to the frequent raids that haVe
lately been made by colored night prowlers upon
European females, adult and juvenile. Within the
past three weeks five,'serious cases have come under
our notice, and the endeavor in each case has been
nothing less than an attempt to satisfy carnal pas-
sions. .. .Europeans at present dare not allow their
wives and daughters outside unattended, and amongst
the womenfolk themselves a state of terror exists.
Suva has only about 400 white females alto-
gether, and five serious assaults by colored
marauders of the night inside three weeks
suggests that our mild colored brother is
going it some.
“Y’r Washup,” said the Sydney police-
court solicitor, “my client admits that he
issued an unstamped cheque. But, y’r
Washup, my client is an artist, a highly-
strung man, and he was just recovering from
a very severe illness. In fact, y’r Washup,
the best medical authorities in Sydney rec-
koned that a sight of the stamp might be
fatal.”
THE TIME OF PEACE.
The alliance with Japan, however, reduces for the
time being the necessity for providing active and sub-
stantial defences. —Sydney Telegraph.
TELEGRAPH: " Let us sit here, Joseph, darling,
and enjoy ourselves. Don’t worry about
the blessed country.”
COOK: “Angel, nothing would give me greater
pleasure .”
“Nemo”: When the Irish Parliament
meets, where will it meet? A struggle will
be made to instal it at the old house on
College Green, Dublin. This place has for
114 years been used as the premises of the
Bank of Ireland, but there is still intact the
chamber in which the ancient Irish Parlia-
ment foregathered —that Parliament in
which no Roman Catholic could sit and for
which n 6 Roman Catholic could vote, so
that the ancient Legislature was made up
of English strangers living in Ireland,
Orange-lodgers from Belfast and thereabouts,
and nominee adventurers sent over from
London. It is a fine building, but perhaps
it might be better to drop Dublin altogether,
and build a new Parliament House at Tara.
Tara is a centre of old Irish tradition, and
it is a nice green spot, at present used
chiefly by the pig (God bless him!). Any-
how, there is more water there than at
Canberra.
IN TOPHET.
BLACKUS : “What is it?”
HAIRUS: “ They tell me it's a N.S.W. live-
stock train taking railway officials to the
saleyards .”
The latest speculation of the N.S.M ■
Government is the appointment of a director
for the Conservatorium of Music at a wage
of £1250 per annum. It may be regarded
as rather a pity that the music wasn’t post-
poned until the financial ship partially
righted itself, and the poor little sinking
fund was re-established. Even now, on a
pleasant summer evening, there are 10
pianos going strenuously in the average
dozen suburban houses, and sister Mary
Jane’s top note is howled in seven of the 10
houses, and brother Jack is playing the
violin in the eleventh house. And only in
one house of the 12 is there peace —such
peace as may be expected, seeing that the
fowls can’t sleep for the music and the cat
has fled up the peach tree to escape “The
Holy City.”
L2* £
BLOGGS, M.L.A.
(A Story of our Great Sod-Turning Industry.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Berrigan, Wednesday.
After a lapse of nearly two years since the “turning
of the sod” ceremony, the Finley to Tocumwal rail-
way extension, a distance of 13 miles, has been made
available for passenger traffic by the Public Works
Department.— Casual News Item.
Two years ago they “turned a sod,” and gave Bloggs,
M.L.A., a spade—
A silver spade on which he trod with boots some
foreign firm had made!
And cheers went up, and beers went down, and
Bloggs, of course, began to blow
About the future of the town —
Two years ago!
Two years ago they cadged a loan from Uncle Cohen,
oversea —
Alas, how many pounds have flown, since then, of
borrowed £ s. d. !
How many sods have since been “turned” by skiting
fools like Bloggs and Co.?
What gorgeous profits would be earned —
Two years ago 1
Two years ago, in honeyed tones we heard Bloggs in
the local hall,
Above the bottles and the bones, remarking that
both Tocumwal
And Finley would arise and bless the railway, which
would make them grow
Like Melbourne, and like Sydney, yes—
Two years ago!
Two years ago, ’mid cheers and smiles, behold the
Strong Sod-Turner speaks:
“My friends, we’ll build these thirteen miles in rather
less than fourteen weeks.”
To loud “Hear, hears!” and wild applause, Bloggs,
M.L.A., continued so:
“Work would go forward, without pause”—
Two years ago !
Two years ago! But, why pursue those foolish utter-
ances more?
The cash is gone; the lOU is safe behind the strong-
room door
Of Uncle Cohen, oversea! But interest is paid, we
know,
On thrice the sum it was to be —
Two Years Ago !
’Tis ever thus —or so it seems —with cash on Works
and Railways spent;
Two years ago the grandest schemes “won’t cost the
country one per cent. ! ”
“A splendid asset,” is the phrase— We’re splendid
asses, without sense!
We’ll find it out, one of these days—
Say, two years hence!
N.S.W.
O. C. C.


A Brilliant British Piano
K6e SAMES
Artistic in Tone Quality
Responsive in Touch
Thorough in Workmanship.
'S *'‘ . ' ■ :,-U# '' • V - '
CAMES PIANOS are constructed on the best and latest
methods known in the art of pianoforte making, with
the highest efficiency and care in workmanship, combined
with the finest materials*
CAMES PIANOS embrace all the essential features that
extreme climates demand, Delightful Tone Quality,
Perfection in Touch, great Durability, and Designs of the
highest order*
CO WELL are we satisfied with the SAMES PIANO
that we recommend it with the utmost confidence to
our clients, and fully guarantee them in every respect*
PIANOS will appeal to you as a sound and
honest proposition* We allow utmost honest value on
old pianos taken in part payment.
Paling’s Easy Terms are Helpful.
SAMES PIANOS, in several hand-
some models, each instrument fully
guaranteed, are sold by us for Cash or
on our System of Easy Time Pay-
ments. —If unable to call and inspect
Catalogue 8 Price List Post Free.
ą
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for
SAMES PIANOS, also
RONISCH, LIPP,
VICTOR, BELLING
PIANOS.
And at
Newcastle Lismore Brisbane Toowoomba.
You Know Worsted
and how it Wears.
\l/ELL, weVe chosen a piece
of the finest —a splendid
dark grey which will not fade
or show the dust, and weVe
made it up in newest style into
thoroughly fine
Ready to Wear
Suits
551-
©6e Coats are cat with roll lapels,
seam or vent hacks, 2 breast pockets and
ticket pocket.
©6c Vests have four pockets and long
points.
©6c Trousers are cut wide at thigh
and have side pockets.
In Ordering state chest over waist-
coat, waist under waistcoat, and inside leg
measures. We have graded the suit into
many sizes, and can promise an accurate
fit.
Remember —We pay freight on all
mail orders, and guarantee satisfaction of
your money back.
&
Y
WVI/1V
Jor FULL VALVJE (j GOOD
STYLE
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets,
Melbourne
THIS IS THE ENSIGN CAMERA
THAT CAN BE USED FOR ROLL FILMS AS WELL AS PLATES.
.... Some Photographers stand for Plates, others for
Films. The individual advantages of both are available
to the possessor of a “REGULAR ENSIGN” Camera.
With this model one may insert a spool of film for six
or twelve pictures, or, when one exposure only is required,
it simply means removing the back panel and the inser-
tion of a dark slide. The reversible view-finder, with
spirit-level attached; the rigidity of the stirrup front; the
beautifully constructed shutter and lens, are some of the
most striking features of the “REGULAR ENSIGN.”
PRICES :
41 x 31. 51 x 31.
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model A.Y., P’c’d. size.
fitted with Symmetrical Lens. . £3/5/- £4/7/6
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model A.K.,
fitted with Ensign Anastigmat
Lens £4/2/6 £5/2/6
“REGULAR ENSIGN,” Model S.D.,
fitted with Aldis Anastigmat
Lens £5 £6/5/-
Send for 1914 Catalogue, 400 pages illustrated.
SYDNEY:
386 George Street.
MELBOURNE:
266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rundle Street.
Also at AUCKLAND, N.Z., and WELLINGTON, N.Z.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
HEIGHT Increased
If you are not over 40 years of age I can
Increase Your Height by from two to three
inches within three months.
No Medicines. Ordinary Habits Retained.
No appliances or drugs of any kind are used,
and it is impossible for my system to cause
overstrain or to injure the health in any
way. On the contrary, my students are in-
variably astonished at the tremendous improve-
ment in their health which my course pro-
duces.
All the time required to be devoted is 10
minutes morning and evening.
I do not ask you to make any drastic altera-
tion in your diet, your smoking, or your mode
of life.
GROW TALL, MY SYSTEM WILL
SHOW YOU HOW.
Send two penny stamps with your name and
address, for further particulars.
HUGH GIBSON,
I
Specialist in the
Increase of
Height,
Department 123, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
AGED LADY
DERIVED GREAT BENEFIT FROM
COMSTOCK’S NERVE AND BONE
LINIMENT FOR RHEUMATISM.
The powerful, penetrating qualities of
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment acting
through the skin on the delicate nerves and
musdes was never more forcibly illustrated
than in a letter from a lady describing the
great benefit her aged mother had received
from its use, for rheumatic pains. Miss A.
Mantle, of Eastern Terrace, Queenstown,
Otago, N.Z., writes: —
“I have pleasure in stating that my
mother (Mrs. Mantle) has received great
benefit from your very valuable liniment tor
rheumatism, after trying many others, ana
receiving more pain than benefit in the ia*.
40 years. It is the only one that has rea
done good, and she is now telling it to e\
one she meets. My mother has su e
much for many years, being now
of age, and is in better health than 1
seen her for years, for which I have t 0 ®
you many thanks, and hope to ~
stock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment co
in its good work.” . ,
To be obtained from all 9^ e ™ ls r p Ce ipt
stores, or will be sent post P aid rr jj
of price, 2s. 6d. per bottle, by The V • f 1;
Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, .
SPORTING
NOTIONS
With the exception of Belove, who was
placed in the Melbourne and Sydney Cups, and had
meanwhile won a good race at the V.R.C. Autumn
meeting, and the trusty but unlucky Gigandra, the
gees that bloomed conspicuously in the Spring were
mostly disabled or “out of form” in April at Rand-
wick. Aurifer, winner of the Caulfield Cup, after
being placed in the Epsom and Metropolitan—where
was he ? Nowhere in the Doncaster and last in the
Sydney Cup. The glory of Aleconner and Cagou
had departed. Four or five weeks had sufficed to
make an awful difference in lownit —who won the
Newmarket Handicap at Flemington and came in
last for the Doncaster. And yet a close finish in
any race is always described as a “triumph for the
handicapper,” as though he had any means of judg-
ing the exact number of pounds difference between
half a dozen horses when they are all in the best of
health and condition. The fact is that no specified
six ever are in the best of nick in the same week.
It rarely happens that they are all wanted to be
fit to run for their lives at the one meeting, and if
they are wanted- their trainers are mostly incapable
of doing the trick. It is more by luck than judg-
ment that any particular stable is in “form” when a
big race meeting conies due. Even then its good
intentions are like!}' to be upset by foolish or roguish
jockeyship. But the difference between the Spring
and Autumn running of the topnotch handicap horses,
and the fact that so many of them get knocked clean
out between October and April, cannot be charged
to the alleged “jockey ring.” The trouble seems to
be in the too frequent running of horses when their
trainers are in a more or less dense state of ignorance
as to exact measure of their fitness or unfitness.
“Public form” is ridiculously variable on Australian
racecourses because the stewards everywhere wink at
it, instead of legislating against the rotten system of
sending horses out unbacked by the stable, for exer-
cise gallops. This system suits the trainers, who thus
spare themselves the difficulty of judging a nag’s
preparation on his track performances only. And
it suits the jockeys, who get a good idea as to the
relative ripeness of the animals that are out for an
airing, and who also get paid for the job of not
trying to win the race even though their mount hap-
pens to be going unexpectedly strong. But the sys-
tem doesn’t make good sport for the poor punters,
or promote the well-being of the gees. Their terms
of usefulness to the owner are not., long as a rule.
They get damaged in scrimmages and are worn out
before their time. The “deadest” steed has to travel
faster in a race which one or more live horses are
trying to win than it would’ have to travel in an
ordinary respectable exercise gallop; And the chance
of a mishap on the journey is not to be ignored.
Moreover, the frequent racing of a nag when he is
not out to win is a bad thing for his temper. The
beast turns sour on it. The odd thing is that pun-
ters don’t turn sour on it. If they were to stop
away from race meetings until handicap form grew
less grotesquely in-and-out than of late years, the
stewards would have to do something. The first thing
to do would be to disqualify for two months every
horse of proved merit that was sent out for an airing
public when obviously unfit to do itself justice.
YVhen the high-bred Mucksweat, by Perspiration out
of Pores, needs “a few gallops to get him into racing
+£ lm ’' aS le mealy-mouthed horse reporters put it,
the trainer of Mucksweat should be placed under the
necessity of keeping the untrimmed gee off a race-
course for at least a pair of months.
Cider’s capture of the *rich All* Aged
Stakes at Randwick last week was one of the satis-
factory results of the meeting, except for punters
who let last year’s Derby winner run loose. Cider
had been putting in some great work on the track
previous to the Doncaster Handicap, and he and
Beragoon were the only representatives of classic
form that started, in the subsequent w.f.a. mile event.
It was up to a Derby winner to beat a comparatively
small field of handicap horses that had mostly been
meeting him on much better terms in the crowded
struggles. As for the fact that he wasn’t carrying a
“crack” jockey—well, he’s a hot-headed gee that
prefers to run his own race, and the public by this
time ought to have had about enough of backing
jockeys at short prices.
The most awful crime in Turfland is to
own a horse or pony that runs stiff when a few
jockeys have backed it as a good thing. The owner
probably was guiltless of connivance in the swindle,
and the jockey punters see no crime in “pulling” pub-
lic fancies when they themselves are on top.
But when their particular fancy happens to get
stiffened behind their backs—oh, the rascality of it!
How do they perform ! They vow vengeance on the
owner, and wait for an opportunity to do him a
mischief. This seems rough on the character of
horse-owners as a class. Evidently they are sup-
posed to be leagued with trainers and jockeys to beat
the public. It is a fair thing, from the jockev
point of view, for an owner to be taken down.' But
if an owner is suspected of being privy to a swindle
whereby an uninformed jockey syndicate happened
to suffer, then the suspected party is not a sport,
nor even a man. He’s a dog, and ought to be kicked
accordingly.
*** ■ *
The A.J.C. (Sydney) has that, on
and after May, the gee-gees with deficient sight or
only one optic shall not race on any of the courses
under its sovereignty. The decree' will not take
effect a day too soon, and, following the precluding
of horses in hoods and blinkers, will make the calling
of horse-pilotage somewhat safer.
In the hills behind Adelaide the Onka-
paringa Racing Club held its one day’s sport of
the year on Easter Monday. It gives £1550 now
for its Great Eastern Steeplechase, and £3400 in
stakes for the day. A £32,000 totalisator, yielding
some £2400 as the club’s commission, makes this
kind of generosity easy. The steeple went to Quinn’s
grey 10-year-old Vanguard, the 1912 winner, with
12st. 61b., the highest winning weight for 15 years.
He beat a better favorite in Moffat’s Pinto. ” Old
Tramp, winner last year, and second the year before
that, was this time third. Jockey J. E. Mason —-a
Victorian; his best win was on Marmont in the
Australian Cup of 1904 —was thrown, and rolled
on, and fatally hurt. Other winners were mostly
well backed, a £33 dividend on the Hurdles being
the only surprise. The dust on the roads was the
unpleasant feature of the day. South Aus. has
not yet had any rain worth talking about
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.~
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
doses. Price, Is. 6d. and 3k Obtainable every-.
where.*
this year; the 30,000 crowd mostly goes from the
city, and mostly goes by road ; the charabancs now
popular cut up the surface badly; and the dust on
the 25-mile journey was simply horrible.
P. A. Connolly, of Westralia, is the
luckiest Cup-gatherer ever was. In fact, he might
claim to be the cup-gatherer of ages. Seven times
has he collared the Perth Mug, and he has raked in
the Melbourne Goblet, two Sydney Chalices, the
Moonee Valle}’ Utensil and the Kalgoorlie Pannikin.
Jockey W. H. McLachlan has also had a monopoly
of “pint-pot” successes, no less than 16 drinking
tools scattered over Australia having been picked
up by him. No other jockey nor owner has ever got
near the record of the aforementioned.
Easter Monday saw the finish of Vic-
toria’s pennant cricket season, when St. Itilda,
after making 168 to East’s 145, put the latter out
the second time for 167 and then ran up the re-
quired 145 for the loss of five wickets. The peren-
nial Peter McAlister was the losers’ top-scorer in
both innings, Hotchin, Lord and Ivory doing the
most of the Saints’ scoring. This is the latter’s
second premiership, the first being captured three
years ago. The gate, though a holiday one, was
painfully poor—£7l 125., as against £3OO odd
which ’Wood, ’Roy and the V.C.A. divided a year
ago.
Sydney First-Grade Cricket Competition
dragged itself to a weary conclusion last Saturday.
As the premiership was already won past all possi-
bility by University there was not much interest
in the concluding struggles. As indicated on the
first day of the final round, University went down
smash before the battery of Waverley by 56 on the
first innings. Waverley accumulated 145, and 154
for eight, to University’s 89, and, generally, got all
over the place. But it could not affect the result,
though it must have taken a lot of the sweetness
off the glory of the premiership. Glebe used a
battle-axe on Petersham, the figures being Glebe 62,
and 81 for one, while Petersham was 62 and 80,
and by the rule of three the margin was nine wickets.
Central Cumberland, with 368 for nine wickets, over-
whelmed Sydney (243) by one wicket and 125 runs,
on the first innings. Gordon, with 218, fell, on the
first innings, to Western Suburbs (338), by 120
runs. North Sydney sprawled all over Middle Har-
bor, with 352 to 90, and 94 for three wickets, by
262 on the first innings. Redfern, the home of the
Assyrian, came down like a wolf on the fold of
Paddington. It closed its innings with 324 for eight
wickets, smashed up the defence for 205 and 90
for seven sticks, and so devoured the ewe lambs
by 119 on the first innings. It was not a great and
gorgeous finale, the only century being the 115 of
the Rev. Waddy for Parramatta, which styles itself
Central Cumberland. Diamond banged 88 for
Western Suburbs. Sayle ran up 87 for Paddington.
Moore did 84 for North Sydney; L. Pye 83 for
Parramatta; and Prentice 78 for Western Suburbs.
Among the bowlers E. W. Adams, of Redfern, was
the best, with six for 24 and six for 32, equal to
12 for 56—an appalling score. Flynn, of Waverley,
bagged six Uni. wickets for 41. Randall, of Middle
Harbor, caught five North Sydney men for 143. C.
Kelleway, of Glebe, got four Petersham sticks for
27 in the second innings, and nine for 59 in the
two days. In the battle for second place in the
Competition, Glebe, with 59.73 per cent., just beat
Central Cumberland, with 58.33 per cent.
* * * *
The North versus South cricket Arma-
geddon in Tasmania last week was quite a strenuous
affair. South pushed together 295 for the loss of
seven sticks and closed; whereupon North went in
and whacked up 296. In the second biff Souths again
declared with 243 for eight wickets. North was
going strong with 114 for seven wickets when Time
ran out, and the thing fell down dead and drawn.
Adelaide club cricket shows some odd
results for the past season, as compared with its
inter-State representation. Crawford batted only
twice (62 and 69), Clem Hill once (95) and Gehrs
not at all. Best averages: Chamberlain 66, Middle-
ton 65, then Leek, Steele, Mayne, Hack, Rees, Run-
dell, Down, Jose, all over 45. Middleton’s aggregate
of 790 is the most ever made in a local season. In
bowling, Whitty, though not playing often, mowed
down 50 wickets for an average of eight. Then came
Clutterbuck, Crawford, James, Howard, Moyes,
Wright, Thurgeland and Travers, all under 16 runs
per wicket. The discrepancy between names and
figures was very noticeable in the club placings.
East Torrens was top, for the third season running;
it plays Mayne, Whitty, Middleton, Chamberlain
and Andy Smith. But Adelaide was an excellent
second, and the clubs each won and lost once when
they met; the veteran bowlers Wright, Travers and
Howard, though dropped by the State, are almost as
useful as ever in club games.
There was a heap of inter-State sport in
Adelaide at Easter (besides racing). A polo four
from Victoria (Calvert, Urquhart, Affleck and Hood)
beat Mount Crawford (Angas and three Murrays),
8 to 3. It lost twice to the Adelaide Club (Downer,
Cudmore and two Law-Smiths), 2 to 7 and 3 to 10.
On the other hand, it beat a mixed team of the two
clubs, playing as South Australia; which shows the
extreme value of combination. At tennis, Sydney
University (including Barbour and Gregg) won from
Melbourne (including A. O’Hara Wood) in possibly
the closest fight ever seen: 11 rubbers to 10, 24 sets
to 23, 242 games to 240. Then Sydney beat the
Adelaide students (including Nott and Fisher) horri-
bly. The individual championship was won by Wood,
from Nott. At bowls, Victorian railway men and
Ballarat Central were hospitably entertained, with
varying results. And a Broken Hill Soccer team
played South Australia twice, collecting one loss, one
drawn game and one broken leg.
Australian sculling champion Jim Paddon
at the beginning of the week shifted camp from
Evans Head (N.S.W.) to the Parramatta River,
where he will train to the encouraging shouts of
enthusiastic barrackers. This is the first shift—the
last will be to the land of our Father Bull, on May
2, in search of the championship of the world, now
in possession of Arthur Barry.
A record that had withstood many assaults
was smashed last week .when the South Canterbury
(M.L.) Cycling Club’s team .careered over the 100
miles in 4hrs. 26min. 38sec. in the Dunlop 100-
TRIED IT ON THE HORSE.
“When driving from Tamworth to Bowling Alley
Point one of my horses took bad with gripes, and
got down kicking and struggling,” says Mr. Sam
L. Pvrke, of Bowling Alley Point, N.S.W. “Those
who passed me considered the horse would die. As
I always carry Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy for my own use in case of emer-
gency, I put a whole bottle of it in half a pint of
water and gave it to the horse. In less than a
quarter of an hour he was up and started to feed.
It is Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy that I have to thank for saving me a good
horse.”*
Miles Relay Teams Competition. This was 2min.
10 3-ssec. ’ better than the record of the Coburg
(Vic.) Club, which was for a long time the best.
The competition ends with the merry month ot
April.
* * * *
Motorists all over the world are taking a
keen interest in the annual 500-Miles race on May
30 at Indianopolis (U.S.A.). This is the most
gilded plum in the motor world, the first prize being
equal to £4OOO, and in addition to it there are a
number of valuable bonuses which about double the
amount. Among the starters this year will be the
all-conquering six-cylinder Sunbeam car which in its
brief life has broken most of the world’s records up
to 12 hours. The machine is being specially fitted
for the Indianapolis track, and will be driven by <T.
Chassaigne, a mighty machine jehu before the Lord.
He will be up against Goux-, the dare-devil French-
man who won the event last year.
Milburn Saylor and Tom McCormick raise
some dust at the Sydney Stadium.
Some time ago Captain Kelsey started on
a motor run from Capetown (Africa) to Cairo, and
high hopes were indulged in, as the South Africans
are very anxious to be the first to make the trans-
continental run. But Kelsey is not a rich man, and
running a motor-car from Table Mountain to the
mouth of the Nile seems to be a job reserved specially
for millionaires. When the captain got somewhere
north of Livingstone his funds were so low that he
hied him to the nearest port and made for Johan-
nesburg and home. It is now said that a millionaire
will make the effort in a specially built 25-30-h.p.
Talbot. Another suggestion is that four cars of the
same make should start together, and the car that
proved strongest be fed with spare parts from the
others as required. Which seems an eminently sensi-
ble scheme, although it does smack somewhat Of can-
nibalism. For, come to think of it, that was the
way Gabbett worked his long expeditions.
* * * *
Queensland lias some claim to the right to
indulge in swelled head and extended chest. At
the recent inter-State Bowls Carnival it won right
through without a single defeat. Victoria won three
games and lost one. Ma got away with two victories
and a couple of defeats. South Australia won one
and lost three, and Tassy lost the whole lot. In the
championships, Waxman, of Victoria, scooped up all
the glory by gathering the individual honor and
skippering the winning rink four. It was the biggest
Bowls upheaval ever let loose in Australasia.
* * * *
There is some talk of compelling motor-
cars and motor-bikes to consume their own noise, so
to speak, and run silently. If this is done there
will be a fine large crop of accidents and fatalities.
The noise of an approaching car or motor-bike is
much better warning than any given by the horn.
Drivers are, all in all, fairly careful; but there is a
fair sprinkling of blighters among them who, when
they do sound the horn, do so too late to give an
unheeding pedestrian time to get out of the way
without doing an impromptu athletic turn which, if
worked up and given on the vaudeville stage, would
be worth about £5O per week. In cases like this
the noise of the car or bike is a boon and a blessing
to men. Someone recently proposed that cars should
be fitted with a standard horn. The same objection
applies. If every motor-car and bike sounds exactly
the same note, in a little while we should have be-
come so accustomed to it that the ear would fail to
note it. The present variety is dreadful, but in its
own way it makes for public safety.
Tom Reece, the billiardist, was to have
started for Australia last week, but he relapsed into
the sickness which downed him immediately after
his heart-breaking go with Inman for the champion-
ship. Reece is a somewhat nervous, bilious-looking
subject, and the strain of the final match after he
had beaten Gray and Stevenson seems to have left
him in a bad way. Inman must be the toughest of
the top-notchers at billiards. A dogged man, who
plays the “Gray game” better than the other Eng-
lishmen, and takes a long time to do it. Also he
plays more for safety than they do, and what with
his tendency to slow down the game and his occa-
sional tedious runs of losing hazards, he wears his
opponent out. When Inman visited Australia, years
ago, and gave points to Fred Lindrum (then only a
vouth), he didn’t appear likely to get to the top of
the tree and stick there. His eyes were not strong
and he hardly pretended to be more than a plugger.
But nowadays he plugs well enough to make 700 or
more in a break when his championship is at stake.
Whispered some time ago that the British
War Office was secretly constructing a huge aero-
plane, a mammoth sky ship capable of carrying heavy
artillery, and built of ferro-molybdenum to resist gun
fire. If it has been constructed it has not, so far,
appeared in public, and it has been left to the
Russian Sikorsky to build the first skycraft worthy
to arrogate to itself the proud title of “ship.” This
is a cloud yacht called the Ilya Mouromets, after
some legendary hero. It weighs 3 i tons, and is capa-
ble of carrying 16 people through the empy) ean for
90min. It has winged its way through space for two
hours with its ordinary crew of eight; and its horse-
power is only 400. With even this low power the
ship carries, besides its own weight, Bcwt. of oil and
fuel, and 21-Jcwt. of passenger. And it is a real
liner, with a fine cabin 37ft. long, with windows at
the sides and one in the floor for photographic pur-
poses ; and then there are a number of private cabins
spread over another 28ft., so the full length of the
hull is 65ft. The crew and passengers can move
about with perfect freedom without impairing the
equilibrium in any way. It has ail the comforts of
a ship, the cabins being lit at night by electricity
and warmed from the exhausts of the motors. It
has a wing area five times greater than that of the
bar man biplane (which is the largest winged of the
garden variety of aeroplane), and seen from below
is said to be quite free of the pitch and roll of the
ordinary flying machine. Sikorsky'"is making a for-
tune carying passengers over and around St. Peters-
burg, and his daily successful flights have moved the
Russian Admiralty to order no less than 10 airships
like unto the Ilya Mouromets.
Georges Carpentier is reported to have
turned down Reg Baker’s offer of £lO,OOO for three
scraps. This was at the rate of £3333 6s. Bd. per
mill, and if the three fights went the full 20 rounds,
£166 13s. per round, or £55 11s. per minute for
actual fighting. However, on the religious ground
that the biffer is worthy of his hire, Carpentier
demanded £4OOO per battle, £2OO per round, or
£66 13s. 4d. per minute. If Carpentier isn’t careful
his beastly modesty will be the ruin of him.
* * * *
Eddie McGoorty, having disposed of Dave
Smith, and Jeff Smith having outed hard-hitting
Pat Bradley, the victors will meet again in about
three weeks of time to decide which of them shall
have the honor of slamming or being slammed by
Jimmy Clabby, who is now on his way across the
Pacific. By the time these two meet, Clabby will be
here and able to see the sort of propositions he is
up against. And the spectacle is not likeh' to cheer
him up immensely even if it does not depress him.
He has never fought Jeff Smith, but has indulged in
a couple of 10-round mills with Eddie McGoorty. On
May 2 last year, at Denver, Eddie beat him, but on
June 13, at Butte, Clabby managed to turn the
tables and land the bacon in the shape of the deci-
sion. The next meeting between McGoorty and Jeff
Smith is very eagerly looked forward to, and already
throughout the Ma Capital bets are being regis-
tered. Many judges are beginning to suspect that
so far we have never seen Eddie McGoorty fully ex-
tended. That last round of his recent battle with
Dave Smith was a revelation, and Eddie is suspected
of being a cynical young man who is quite prepared
to sacrifice a sclinapper to catch a whale. McGoorty
is also to be put up against Lang if that battle-
scarred warrior is willing to take him on. Dave
Smith got all over Lang by sheer skill, and McGoorty
has knocked Dave Smith out three times. On paper
form he should be able to wipe the floor with Lang
with ease. But, all the same, - this 'writer will be
very astonished if Lang doesn’t make a n.uch more
stubborn battle of it than Smith, and also get
through without being knocked out. McGoorty will
find Billiam’s long, straight left a very tough thing
and hard to get past.
To give any adequate account of the scrap
or howl between Milburn Saylor and Tom McCor-
mick that raged at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night is quite impossible. It was indescribable. It
was a wild whirl of arms ; a drizzle of flying fists; a
scattering of feet; a cataract of bodies. McCormick,
who weighed lOst. 41b. to Milburn Saylor’s 9st. B]lb.,
was quite unable to take advantage of his weight.
Saylor’s reach, which is about the length of half a
whale, overwhelmed him, and the American’s habit of
hitting all the time, and hitting whether he was
punched or not, and his terrific right-counters, slowly
wore down the rugged Englishman. McCormick did
very well the first round, and landed a couple of
counters that shook Saylor very badly. After that, it
became mostly an exhibition of iron endurance on his
part. The American’s fists fell like Rocky Mountains,
and the power behind them made every blow tell.
Saylor beat McCormick to the floor twice in quick
succession. McCormick made the same mistake as
Herbert McCoy, and clung to Saylor’s left —which
was exactly what Saylor wanted. He used the
pinioned left as a lever, and swung his other meat
club exactly as a man swings an axe. Every time he
swung it it landed on the back of McCormick’s neck,
till even that iron man twice went to the floor. But
he got up and again faced Saylor, and although he
was quite unable to hit for several seconds, Saylor
could neither knock him out or down; and when
Saylor’s blizzard ceased McCormick sprang at him
and worried him as a bulldog might. Then the gong
sounded, and Saylor limped to his corner. Two col-
lisions had landed on the point of the hip-bone or
somewhere in that quarter, and thereafter Saylor was
a sore man. For a time it looked as though the
endurance of McCormick had broken the heart of
Manhattan. He dodged and seemed unwilling to face
the music, and hundreds expected to see him quit at
any moment. But he pulled himself together, and
sent in some staggering blows. He did not hit so
often, blit he hit harder ; and then McCormick would
get in close and send along a quick succession of
short arm jolts that made Saylor feel very sick.
Meanwhile McCormick was going to the devil. His
left eye was bulged right out and looked like a
toy balloon. His right eye was cut. His
jaw was swelling visibly; and his mouth
commenced to lose its bearings. Saylor looked
sick, although his face was unmarked, and after every
round he limped to his corner. Finding McCormick
could not see clearly enough to aim properly, but
still came in like a mastiff, Saylor took to counter-
ing. McCormick was knocked through the ropes, but
came back and fought like 17 devils. At last in the
10th round Saylor got him on the ropes and swung
his two fists like flails. He hit McCormick on
the face - , on the top of the head, on the back of the
neck, across the shoulders, on the back, the chest and
the ribs; and the Englishman went down. Saylor
stood off for a second to get his breath, and as
McCormick went to rise rushed in and was about to
recommence when the towel soared in. McCormick did
not see it, and got up to resume fighting; but the
referee pushed him back. Then for a second it looked
as though McCormick wanted to have a roll on the
boards with the man who had thrown the towel.
What lost McCormick the fight was a moment of in-
sanity when he twice held out his jaw for Saylor to
hit. The first time Saylor smote it with both hands;
the second time he smote the jaw with one fist and
banged the eye with the other. That was the begin-
ning of the end. No man. may play those asinine
tricks with Saylor.


STOP COURTING DISASTER
LEARN TO DEFEND YOURSELF
x
Be wise in tini'e. iLeartV (6 bfe how. Ddh’t
. #ait until tl>e scats of battle cdnvince you
of your ne.vi. Surdiy you’ve seen i'nstahcCk
enough of tn£ fnbft'ensiVe unjustly s'tt
upon. Just because they (Mill'd, not take their
own part. Perhaps you’ve been lucky sO
far, but your turn will surely co ttik.
, Why not be certain of yourself by khoWIM
how to use your hands ? I can teach yob to
be a skilful'Boxer in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
Everything is thoroughly explained, and as
the instruction teaches the best moves of
the most celebrated modefti champion boxers,
you ■ can realise how much, yoti ean learn —
what an advantage you’ll haW your
fellows.
Here is an extract from a pupil’s letter. —
“The only way that I can get any
practice is by shadow sparring. They all
say around here that I hit too hard, and
won’t put the gloves on with me.”
J.S.E., Inglewood (Q.).
That is excellent proof of the soundness of my tuition. It will gfve you an idea how you can
improve.
Why not get fuller information, cost of tuition, etc. 1 Write for illustrated 32-page hdtrfelet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home.” Kindly send three penny stamps to cover cost of postage.
REG. L. ("Snowy”)BAKER,
311 Belmont Buildings,
CAsftEfi.£AGH STREET, SYDNEY.
If You Prefe
Havana Cigar
t like ybti lb
try iny
MANUEL
GARCIA
(Reina Victorias)
They are something very
choice indeed, and, no
matter how discriminating
you are, you will fully
appreciate them. Their
fine flavor and pleasing
aroma will satisfy the
most exacting connois-
seur.
In boxes of 25, 12/6;
50, 24/-; 100, 45/-
Postage extra.
A 25-box weighs about
6oz.
Write for a free copy of
my illustrated Catalog, en-
titled “A Discriminating
Smoker’s Guide.”
an
y —'
«L0N5O l 1
Actual Size
A. M. SOLOMON
“CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt St., Sydney.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
For a practical proof of the
excellence of this new idea,
?end 3d. in stamps to The J.
i. Wilfi&rftaCo.*
Box 98 G.p.a,
Sydney, and you 1
will receive by re-
turn mail a liberal
sample exactly
like illustration.
All Wideawake
Chemists sell it.
ISO
It is time that you
applied something to
your Eczema that will
definitely heal it. Send
3d. (in stamps) for
Liberal Sample Tube of
“ISO,” c e 1 e b r a t e d
throughout Australia, io
BLACK, Chemist, Col-
lingwood, Victoria. [2
Melbourne to Adelaide
riotor Record
Broken
by
Murray Aunger, Esq.,
by 5 hours 11 minutes,
using
“SHELL”
BENZINE
KRUPPS
MINING and INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY
The Most
Modern, Efficient and Economical.
CONSULT US before deciding on any other.
WE ARE SPECIALISTS in these lines.
NOYES BROS.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
499 Bourke St., Melbourne; £at Perth.
NOYES BROS.
wmmammmmmmmmmmmmmKmmmmmammmmm
(Sydney) Limited
115 Clarence St., Sydney; Bat Brisbane.
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
SALES held at frequent
intervals by
AML.eF.CO.
LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
BUY RIQNEY SHOES
and you get your money’s worth in style,
cMhfort, wear and value. Every Rigney is
made a'S' perfect as possible, hence every Twig'
ney satisfies fit fly and completely.
The illustration shows a Choice Russian
Calf Bal., Close Welts, Light @ ; ole, guaran-
teed hand-sewn. One of the famous
“Rostock’s” (English made) Shoes —very
eXCitisive shape—a shoe for gentlemen.
Price - - 35/"
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for a Copy of Our Catalog.
ǻ
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Btsilding's, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
From The Bulletin’s Chief Romish
Minion: —
I see by the cable that Monsignor Ceretti, secretary
to the famous Archbishop Falconio, has been ap-
tttrinted Apostolic Delegate in Australia. He will
act the part of a sort of referee, settling any eccle-
siastical points -which Archbishops Kelly and Carr
may subih'it 1$ luhm The idea of Rome is to liberalise
the Church in the Commonwealth, as was done in
the U.S. quarter of a century ago or more. One
Father McGlynn, an able and radical-minded cleric,
declared about this time that many Old World prac-
tices would have to be abandoned by Americans.
His superiors reeled, in a scandalised condition, he-
fore the shock. He was inhibited by the Archbishop
of New York, and went to Rome, on appeal. Pope
Leo sent Monsignor Satolli as Apostolic Delegate to
the US To the stupefaction of the Old Hands he
supported McGlynn. In a religious manner of speak-
ing Australia is the Toriest place on earth. This
applies to all denominations. Boxed in by the ocean,
and 11,000 miles from the centres of Lib-
eral Thought, it gets the crusted Old ;Port of theology
and practice. It really needs not Ceretti, but a
whole cargo of them.
“Bung” uncorks himself: —
Some vigilant has discovered a “bloomer” in the
consolidated Liquor Act of N.S.W. By one of those
oversights which have disfigured or transfigured quite
a lot of the consolidated statutes, the provision that
a shop or dwelling must not exist under the roof of
an hotel has been altered to read that an hotel must
not be under the roof of a shop, etc. Though appar-
ently the same thing there is an obvious distinction,
and the effect of the alteration is that no new license
can be issued except to those premises which are
self-contained under one roof. If this ruling is to
apply to the renewal of licenses, there is going to be
serious trouble to many of the chief pubberies in the
State, which are not occupying the whole of the
buildings in which they carry on their trade.
»>
VH-C
Tourist Trophy Race
Australia’s Premier Road
Speed Event of 100 Miles,
WAS WON BY
M. JENKINS
ON
DUNLOP
TYRES
In 2 hrs. 0 m. 52 4-sth secs.
These Tyres are easily the Best
for WEAR and RELIABILITY.
Obtainable all Agents
DUNLOP RUBBER GO. OF A/SIA
LIMITED
ALL STATES and N.Z.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld dock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
The Better Way of
Cleaning Knives and Forks'
Clamp it to the table or
other convenient place, and
using it is a pleasure.
The old way of the Knife Board is dirty, tedious, and
not expeditious. Expensive Machines do not do it
more thoroughly than the New, Neat and Compact
Harras Cleaner
and iSharpener.
Cleans and Brightens Knives and Forks without the
least trouble. Just a touch on the sharpening part
and the annoyance of a blunt knife departs.
This splendid, efficient and service-
able machine costs only
7(6
It feeds the knife powder automatically, and saves
every fraction of it, so that it may be used again and
again, the economy thus effected paying for the
machine.
If ordering by mail please add 1/G for postage. We
send it securely packed, and guarantee satisfaction.
One lady user has bought several for her friends. As
the present supply is limited, order yours at once —it
costs so little.
JOHN DANKS & SON
PROPRIETARY LTD.,
The Home of Modern Interior Fittings,
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, near Liverpool Street.
Melbourne Address: 391 BOURKE STREET.
~ CRACKAJACK Senior ”
C.. > C ri 3;<
BUILT
TO
BEAT
THE
BAND
MADE IN
Mouth Organs
SIX STYLES.
CracliajacV Professional. 40 Reeds. 3/-
~ Senior 20 2 -
„ Junior 20 ~ 1/6
Crackajack Double* 40 Reeds, 1/-
Boss Cracker 20 tf I.'-
Crackajack Cadet 20 M 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Sole Agents: ALLAN & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne. Adelaide. Bendigo. Geelong.
This is the “Austral No. 2”
Have you ever heard it played?
It’s a new model —new and improved.
Something VERY special in value, too—quite an entertaining
host in itself.
The “Austral” is one of the most popular hornless types of
“ His Master’s Voice ”
Gramophones
Now that Harry Lauder is coming there’ll be quite a boom
for his quaint songs. If you cannot get to town yourself to
hear him, buy the “Austral No. 2”—and a selection from the
forty Lauder songs produced on “His Master’s Voice” Records.
The “Austral No. 2" costs £B/15/-
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest
accredited dealer on request.
You know it by this
"His Masters Voice*
Sole Concessionaires for
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
G
ft
£
%
<
£
V
as
*
mother
ortment
Rifles
Last issue of this paper we showed a rough illustration of 7 of
our rifles. This week we quote some different Models. *
æ
Stevens’ “Marksman” Rifle No. 3007.
.22 Calibre, drop-down action, made specially for smoke-
less powder, 20 in. barrel, plain lever and extractor, shot gun
stock, vulcanite butt, bead front and open rear sights. I'7/.
Shoots .22 short, long and long-rifle cartridges. - Price x * /
J
Winchester Model 1904 Take Down Rifle-
No. 3012.—21 in. heavy round barrel, bead Front sight,
-w with bright alloyed tip. Schuetzen shaped butt stock with
blued steel plate. Fires .22 short, long and long rifle car- OA /fj
tridges. With fixed Uor adjustable sporting rear sights. Price / u
Above fitted with peep sight, 26/6
ǽ
The B.S.A. Miniature Rifle -No. 3016-No. 2 Model.
Folding (pocket) pattern. Adapted to easy carriage in
the pocket, or travelling bag. It shoots remarkably
well, and it is easily aimed by means of its
special peep backsight. Material,
workmanship and accuracy are
as usual, fully guaranteed-
Length over all, 3? 4 in.;
folded, 24 H in.
Price
42/-
â
Stevens’ Visible Loading Repeat-
ing Rifle— No. 3029 —2O in. round barrel, var-
nished stock and slide handle, vulcanized butt plate-
Weight, lbs. Holds 11 long-rifle, 13 .22 long, or 15 .22
short cartridges. Bead front and elevating rear sights.
Price
35/-
a
Winchester Model 1006 .22
Cal. Take - Down Rifle No. 3033. 20 in.
round barrel. Bright alloy front sight and adjustable rear
sight. Weight, about 5 lbs. Holds 15 short, 12 long, and 11 .22
long-rifle cartridges ... ... ... ... ... Price 47/6
à
New Model Marlin Take-Down Repeating
Rifle— No. 3048.—Trombone action, solid top frame
and side ejector, special steel barrel, Rocky Mountain Rear and
ivory bead front sights. Made in .25/20 and .32 cals., and
handles the new high velocity smokeless cartridges as well as the
regular and low-pressure loads. 24 in. barrel, 7 shots, weight 5! lbs.
80/.
Gunmakers and Cartridge Manufacturers
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
The “A.P.” Rifle Catalog contains 100
types of Sporting Rifles, suitable for all
kinds of game. Each of these can be had
with 12 different combinations of sights, so
the shooter has practically 1,000 Rifles to
choose from, prices: 10/-to £2O. Amongst
these are: 6 Rifles by F.N. (Browning
Pistol Co ); 3by Savage Arms Co.; 7by
Stevens Arms Co : 49 by The Windiest er
Co.; 5 by Remington U.M.C ; 20 by
Marlin Arms Co.: Bby the B.S A. Co.
i Calibres .22 to ..45/90. Ask for one—Free
IM.i
m
p's
OM
ip-
i
PS
/mn
GOOD, STRONG, CLOSE SHOOTERS.
Choke bored for nitro powder. Case hard-
ened frame.
For any standard make of ammunition.
12, 16 and 20 gauge—in standard lengths
and weights.
Stevens Single Barrel Shot GUHS
Every gun rigidly tested. Order from your
Dealer.
For latest Stevens information —illustrated
catalogs, etc., communicate with
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens Arms
& Tool Company,
G.P.O. Box 86, Adelaide, south Australia. [5
PIGEON SHOTS, your attention I For Accurate Shooting buy
PIEPER BAYARD
Hammerless Gun.
** vaP
See the Patent
Automatic
Indicators to
each barrel.
Automatic
safety.
Bayard Bolts.
Let me send you Booklets, post free.
Write W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873,
Sydney.
m
Epo
Til
fills
lb
anno
Cleans
ILegula
British
12/
eac
la^K.
elf.
Stturc-
EaiionefS


An Ideal Polish
For the Piano !
“ 3-in-One” Oil will restore
the original lustre to your piano.
Apply a few drops to a soft
wool led Cloth, rub woodwork
Finger-marks and ttalnS Danish
under thfe magic tohch of
“ 3‘iri-one” Oil
and the instruhtfent looks as good
as new, krith & origntj lasting
finish. ..
‘3- in - One ” is a perfectly
- ' - - r refined article
' on the clothes.
clean, highly refined u article; ft
won’t rub off (
On sale everywhere in Bottles
and Handy Can.
Send Post-card for Free Sample Bottle of
“ TbtMWn-One ” Oil:
RElfl&Rfiift
Australasian
Agents,
82 0. HARRIS ST„
Wellington, N.Z,
10-MAINES ADV.
L 13
$8
f
7
á
Tooth
Insurance
“Pebeco”
offers you the best
that Science can offer
you towards the
hygiene of the
mouth and preserva-
tion of the teeth.
As a cleaning, cooling, deodoris-
ing agent for the mouth it has no
equal; as a strengthener and pre-
server of the teeth it has a record
endorsed by medical men and
dentists over a period of twenty
years. A sample of ** Pebeco” and
an interesting test by which you
may prove its value, sent FREE.
F686C0
TOOTH PASTE
A sample of Pebeco,’’ and an in-
teresting test by which you may
prove its value, sent FREE.
Of all chemists, Large Tube, 1/6,
small 1/-.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O'Connell St.,
Sydney (wholesale only).
LANCASTER’S
High=class Guns & Rifles,
On view at Sole Agents—
HERBERT OXLEY & CO.
26 Strand Arcade, Queen Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.,
from whom full particulars and catalogues can
be obtained free by post.
CHARLES LANCASTER & CO. Ltd.
Gunmakers to H.M. King George V., 11 Panton
Street, Haymarket, London, Eng. (Est. 1826)
(IA ■ ■»
Cazimi
Cream
Will improve your complexion.
Promotes a healthy condition of
the skin by freeing it of all
impurities. Removes freckles,
sunburn, roughness and redness.
mAV In ~ Prepared and Packed
/o per Jar. in Russia.
Cazimi Soap 1/6 Tablet
Cazimi Powder .... 1/6, 3/6 Box
From all Chemists, Stores or Toilet Parlors.
Wholesale Depot:
526 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
f 2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
&
m
2
10
9
8
BIG
BEN
5
e
¥St
Don’t set your mind—set Big Ben
Don’t bother your head about get-
ting up. Leave it to Big Ben.
You ought to go to sleep at night
with a clear brain —untroubled and
free from getting-up worries. You
men, if you are up-to-date workers,
work with your brains as well as with
your hands. Such a little thing as
“deciding to get up at a certain time
in the morning” and keeping it on
tour mind often spoils a needed night’s
rest and makes a bad “next day.”
Try Big Ben everywhere in the house
for a week. He makes getting up so
easy that the whole day is better.
Big Ben is not the usual alarm.
He’s a timekeeper; a good, all pur-
pose clock for every day and all day
use and for years of service.
He stands seven inches tall. He
wears a coat of triple-nickel plated
steel. He rings with one long loud
ring for 5 minutes straight, or for 10
minutes at intervals of 30 seconds
unless you shut him off.
His big, bold figures and hands are
easy to read in the dim morning light,
his large strong keys are easy to <wind.
His price, 12/6, is easy to pay, because
his advantages are so easy to see. See
them at your storekeeper.
If you cannot find Big: Ben in your town, send a
money order to the makers’ Australian office.
We stclax, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney. They will
have one mailed to you by the nearest jeweller.
12/6
Postage //- extra
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Queens!
PHOSFERI
WOM I»v»» »W
Imut ua< tr »SHIMtn
L»*f»
w
m
Pkosferine
This is unexcelled as a Nerve Tonic
—a proven remedy for Nervous De-
bility, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleep-
lessness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Ma-
ternity Weakness, Premature Decay,
Mental Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced state
of the nervous system.
Beware of imitations! The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a buff package,
labelled ASHTON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT ALL
CHEMISTS.
Any Dentist will tell You
that unless your artificial teeth are kept
perfectly dean they will destroy your
remaining natural teeth.
DENSO
Prepared from a leading dentist’s pre-
scription; it will make your teeth com-
fortable, and free them from all germs
and injurious deposits. [3
Price : I/O & 2/0 post free.
Send One Penny Stamp Jor Sample ,
J. M. Wilkes 8 Co., Alphiiv&ton, Melb., Vic.
For Motoring, Driving
and Travelling. . . .
MOSGIEL
RUGS
The Most Luxurious Rug Made!
Exquisitely Soft and Comfortable.
Obtainable at all
the Best Shops. [3
â
Waternjan's
(Ideal)
FountaJjiPeni
Lasts a
Lifetime
When you buy a Waterman’s
Ideal you purchase Pen-com-
fort for life. Waterman’s
Ideal writes with ease the
instant the iridium-tipped
gold nib touches the paper ;
it is non-leaking, and can be
carried in pocket ready to use
when and wherever occasion
demands the service of a pen.
Four Types : Regular, Safety, Self-Filling
and Pump-Filling.
Sold by Stationers & Jewellers everywhere.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, Ltd.,
Koh-i-noor House, LONDON, Eng.
(Australis: 350. George St.. Sydney.)
Write for Booklet, post free.
The Inky Way.
"Plattypussy”: Some of the Maoriland newspapers
stagger the stranger within the gates. The other day,
one of them, referring to the dryness of some timber,
called it “the moistlessness of the wood.”
times the editor wields a colloquial pen. “Jones
galloped away and he cleared after” is meant to in-
dicate that he (a second person) followed Jones.
But, when the fourth estaters gets their pens
i-jhsrM up in the cables, then the fun begins to work
iii double shifts. "LAHMKINISM WILL NOT BH
TOLERATED. ‘K^fofthe
to & cable in which the ’gtamivlef tfl£ u* of the
objections of the capital: City t 6 Miv La / k * l rt */S^
NO mention Was made, in the body ot the ftfgg
cable of Mi. Larkin, but the substance 6f the head
ing was Repeated., ,A challenge to chop an An.
tree i'Cad: “I, Bill Jobkins, hereby challenge anyone
in Poverty flay , (Job Billkins preferred) to chop
Mnito for, £10,” Job replied that he
was willing 1 8 chop' Bill, Jobkins in an 18m. tree for
anything up to £.66, whi<?h suffl was. perhaps, more
in accordance with the Sfaughtcimeti» Award rate
The superlative was ieached by the Hawkes B y
Tribune with the following: “Prior tri the Cabinet
meeting, Messrs. Birrell, Redmond, T. O Comity
Dillon and the Devil breakfasted With Mr Lloyd
Gripfge, and had a conference lasting an hourand a
half;” , bnfe .pari understand the trouble in ft eland
after tfidt, When Satan and Mr. Devlin get hold of
the Hawke s Bii Tribune they will keep then
respective wives awake half the night repeating the
joke to them.
* * * ~ *
“Cog”: That phrase of fearsome slovenlin&S, ‘‘re-
ceived a reception,” was well flaunted by Sydney
Telegraph on 23/3/’l4. On the leader page a
column carrying three headlines commenced: “Mr.
Cook received a most flattering reception on Satur-
day afternoon.” And on the next page, under six
headlines, appeared: “Sir Edward Carson received an
enthusiastic reception on arrival at Belfast. Ha
either been handed some token of unexplainable
esteem, the Telegraph would, presumably, have
reported that he had been “presented with a presen-
tation” or “given a gift.”
* » * *
“Y.”: Just dead, in Dublin, Timothy Sullivan, aged
S 7. An indifferent writer, but an electrical thinker.
Per many years he helped his brilliant brother, A.M.,
te edit the Nation. While A.M, orated in the Com-
mons, Tim gat In the Nation office, and chopped libels
6ut 6f tbe paper at the average rate of three in five
jninutes. He gave the, present writer « letter of
introductiort to Lady Wilde, AS “Spefttoffl,.. »hc
Wrote much good Verge. Also, shb‘ ,Was a pOlitiCa
leader-writer of no mean. order. TO get pack to
the Sullivan family- A.M. .dropped dead in a ht
d? political excitement. T. D. went td. gaol. maiftr
tittieg: As soon as the pell door closed on him. he
started td, Compose arid chant, defiant, patriotism.
He generally picked his. trine first, and then fitted
words to the notes. That ig how bis God Save
Ireland” (now sung all over thfe wdrld) was put
together.
This month’s issue of the Australian JoußNiri
(Melb.) “contains further instalments of Marcus
Clarke’s story, ‘For the Term of His Natural Life,
and Gordon’s poems.” When these periodical re-
vivals of its stock publications have lost all thei
ancient novelty the journal might as well bring out
the Bible and “Robinson Crusoe” m monthly
numbers.
* * * *
“OC.C.” Who says the Japs are out of touch with
modern life? Not the bards of Australia, I hope—the
neglected and despised and generally useless, but
amusing or quaint persons who write the tripe-
songs of a nation at 2d. per line! The Japs also
have bards among them, but they are honored and
haughty persons, Wearing good clothes, and a luii-ieci
air They do not write sonnets to their mistresses
eyebrows, nor do they sling off topical verse on the
local show or the illogical politician. No I Ihe
Chrysanthemum Poet gets hold of his subject—or
lets it get hold of him —m-a way Grant Hervey,
“Kodak,” McKee Wright and “Petromus Earbiter
would describe as piffling, and turns out four little
lines like this:— a
Waka-no-ura ni
Shio michi kureba
Kata wo nami
Asribe Wo sashite tazu naki-wataru I
Which, being translated, would run :
On the shore Of Waka
When the tide comes flowing in
There being no dry land, , , a
Towards the Place of .Reeds the storks fly across,
crying.
This is the poetry of the Obvious, which never
arrives anywhere. But Japan is full of it, and
every year (listen, Carmichael, and-ye other blight-
ing “uplifters !”) the, Japan League of Poets holds a
mighty conference under the. aegis, or palladium, or
linoleum, of the Imperial Poetry Bureau! At this
Homeric meeting—l presume it must be Homeric on
account of the thunder and surge of its strophes,
and the noise of the poets all declaiming against
one another—prizes are given, amounting in English
money to about £700; the first prize being the not-
to-be-sneezed-at sum of £2401 Every year the
Imperial Poetry Bureau (ye gods! Is Asquith listen-
ing?) announces the subject for the prize poem,
and the 456,786 bards of Japan then rise (or fall) in
all their majesty and wade in for the glory and yen.
For this year the Bureau has set the subject of the
glorious trees at Nikko in front of the Shrine of
leyasu, the founder of the Tokugawa Dynasty the
giant Crj'ptomeria (Suyi in Jap), of which one
avenue is over 25 miles long, and not a tree less
than 200 ft. high. My competing verse runs:—
Up at Nikko, the Beautiful,
Where sleeps heroic leyasu,
The trees are green and cool.
/ But the falling dew weeps
From off their green crowns
For heroic leyosu in the Hot Place!
I should about win if I could put that into Jap.
But what price the Imperial Poetry Bureau and the
£7OO divided yearly among the Herveys of Japan?
* * * *
“Tiaki”: I have always taken an intelligent
interest in the methods employed by the astute
Yankee in arresting cold coin and taking it into
custody. I had noticed that Amurica was just
dying to buy “song-poems” and I determined to in-
vestigate. i sent for a dozen “free booklets,” and
in due season reaped a fine crop of literature at the
front of my residence. I gathered from each pub-
lisher that he was the true and only buyer of ‘ song-
poems” and that every other . fellow whose free
booklet had accompanied his in the mail-bag was a
robber, a thief and several kinds of burglar. On one
thing they were unanimous. Billions of dollars
were being paid to song writers and about the
easiest way of collecting heaps of green-backs was to
write “song-poems” of the “I love you true, you
know I do” variety. I determined to collect a few
bushels of green backs, and, selecting what appeared
to be the most honorable of the brigands, made a
song. I sent it away and, in many days, received
the joyful intelligence “that they thought very kindly
of it,” and, although they wouldn’t definitely guar-
tee that my hand-painted ditty would shake the
very foundations of the Universe, they hinted that
some very pronounced earth tremors would certainly
result from its publication. An agreement contain-
ing 11 clauses was enclosed in which “the p ?; r a°l
the second part agreed to pay the party of the first
part 535” for advertising and boosting a certain song,
to wit, “The Wairoa River”; the .first party to
present the second party with 200 copies of the same
(“Tiaki,” song writer, was. the second party who
had to part up ?35 to the first party). I immedi-
ately decided to cause no seismic disturbances, and
the truth then dawned on me that the great Amuri-
can public make its millions by writing song
pomes” and selling them to each other. When I find
a bandit who is willing to buy my song-poem (not
sell it to me) I shall immediately erect a factory
and install up-to-date machinery for the manu-
facture of the goods.


iiiii min
m
y m
U
era
r \
7/
if
1
The Receipt is Worth Money to You
Most receipts are of value only to the person who receives
them.
Phe National Cash Register receipt is of value to you,
because it means that at the time it was printed the amount
was added on the adding counter under lock and key, and
must be accounted for.
It makes you sure of your profit on every transaction.
It saves money that might have been lost through care-
lessness and mistakes. ■
It enforces a correct record inside the register, and
shows how much money should be in the cash drawer.
The National Cash Register pays for itself, then pays
you.
Write for information about the style and size especially
fitted for the-needs Of your store.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE— — - 119 BATHURST STREET. SYDNEY.
Branches in all Principal Cities.
STEWART DAWSON’S
The Home of Australian Souvenirs!
You can foster the true Imperial spirit in no more effective manner than by
the exchange of tokens. The folks “at Home” will highly value such typical
.Australian Souvenirs as are here illustrated. Each one is perfect in its
representation, and of a quality that ensures lasting memory of the donor
arid of the country from whence it came. Mail a token to-day.
05565 —-F (.nest
quality ' Enamel
and Solid Silver
Spoon* 9/6.
Our Free Catalogue
Illustrates many
New Id eas in
Souvenirs.
C 9757 —Pearl and Turquiose, set
Oct. Gold Kangaroo and Boom-
erang Brooch, 15/6.
STR
CB6Bl—-9ct. Gold Pendant, 10/6.
15ct. Gold Pendant, 17/6.
09*35—9ct. Gold, Pearl set,
Southern Cross. and Boomerang
Brooch, 10/6.
05567—P inest
quality Enamel
and Solid Silver
Spoon, 9/6.
Postage Paid to
any Address.
Try Shopping by
Mail.
Strand Corner, 412 Georg'e Street,
SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA; Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; &73t0 81 Regent Street, W.
Philippine hand embroidery.
Carefully selected Waist Fronts, Beau-
tiful Designs artistically done by Native
women on finest English Pearline Lawn,
Splendid gifts, £1 each. Post paid. Satis
faction or money back.
Pattingell & Co., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
ã
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
i
TO
H.M. THE KING.
ã
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets<
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
—/d
INNEFQRDS
DINNEFORD’S
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
MAGNESIA
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
99
Socks and
Stockings.
When you are buying Socks and Stockings, look for
the name on the foot. If it isn’t there
don t have them, they are not what you require.
For no other hose have the same combination of good qualities
* 3 j P° ssess - All-Australasian-wool, perfectly
knitted, 111 rendered absolutely unshrinkable and as soft
a> silk by the "JftUOTIU process—those are the qualities you
want in your hose. "&UAo7 cost
no more than any other kind, so v**'*"* m that
it costs you nothing to have the best.
Socks and Stockings are made in
styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
not stock them, insist upon his getting them
for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co.» Leicester, England.
Aa3B ■ )
safe
•» '27'
«i>:
.....«/«////U^
No Situation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Acting Premier, Mr. Cann, stated yesterday
that, so far as the Government is concerned, there
is “no situation” regarding the Upper House.
The position in which the Government stood in
regard to the Council was, Mr. Cann added, that all
the measures the Government had sent to the Coun-
cil had been passed by that branch of the Legisla-
ture.—Daily press.
The Upper House is very tame and meek.
It passes all the Bills we send along;
It makes no fuss; it sings a simple song,
Like some large cat that slumbers all the
week,
And leaves the pale canary piping strong
Within its gilded cage, or some slow creek
That babbles faintly on its rural way
From blushful morn to quiet evening grey.
The Daily Press is gentle, trustful, kind.
Its harmless leaders almost speak our praise;
Dead is the bitterness of other days,
Our ways and works it does not seem to
mind,
No longer does its indignation blaze,
Our faults grow few and very hard to find ;
In fact, the Telegraph and Herald stand
Almost prepared to eat out of our hand.
Fat sits at ease within his ample chair.
He does not snort, he does not curse and
rear;
In fact, we note a tender smile appear
And creep along his waistcoat large and
fair
When we approach and murmur in his ear.
Our confidences he is glad to share,
And, by the sun of office large above,
We hope to very shortly win his love.
No “situation” need arise at all.
For all we do there still is ample room.
The whole bright garden is in perfect bloom.
The shadows pass. We watch the sunlight
fall
To chase away all trace of strife or gloom.
Wade has no terrors left that may appal.
All that we need is just to sit down tight,
And keep our Labor pledges out of sight.
N.S.W.
CURSE O' MOSES.
A Council that has the Importing Craze
Badly.
Those in charge of the municipal affairs of
Melbourne City are notorious victims of the
Foreign-Trade mania, but two of their latest
follies create a loud suspicion of acute mania
or “graft.” Practically' all the Council’s
tenders, contracts, etc., are decided in com-
mittee—which often means that three men
may settle a matter involving thousands of
pounds. The recommendations are then
placed before the full council and rushed
through without much dejbate or considera-
tion. Recently three tenders were received
for the supply of explosives—£l9B 13s. 4d.,
£l9B 7s. Id. and £l9B 7s, Id. The first was
from an Australian firm, the other two from
importers, and the remarkable coincidence
in .the figures of these two hinted at an
“honorable understanding.” But the Coun-
cil’s P. W. committee, obsessed by its For-
eign-Trade fetich and perceiving nothing
unusual, coolly passed over the Australian
tender—6s. 3d. higher—and recommended
that the contract be divided between the
two importers. Fortunately the few genuine
Protectionists on • the Council were so : in-
sistent that the matter was referred back to
the committee. The other case wears an
even more foffiish complexion. Last Decem-
ber the electric-light committee recommended
the purchase in England of lOOgals. of
resin oil at 4s. 6d. per gal., plus duty and
landing costs, which made the price equal to
ss. lid. per gal. That honest Protectionist
and oil-expert, Ciias. Atkins, declared that
oil of equal quality could be imported at
Is. 6d., and made locally for Is. Bd.! While
the argument was proceeding he sent a
sample of the four-and-a-half-bob oil to a
large firm of English resiu distillers, and
asked them to match the sample and quote
a price. They did so, and quoted Is. 6d. !
Yet in February the council, in defiance of
the protests of Atkins mnd his fellow-Pro-
tectionistg, ignored an Australian offer at
Is. Bd.. and the English quotation of Is. Od..
and calmly accepted the tender of 4s. 6d. —
thus to all intents making that firm a free
gift of £3O. This may be nothing worse than
sturdy, not to say rabid Freetradism. but
what it looks like is plain, ordinary b<»;d-
ling.
Tiie Old Soldier:—
i'&ti the last Islington (England) Show someone
who had used Australian horses in India said:—
“Why is it that Australian horse-breeders do not
send more hunters to England? There is a good
market there at prices that should be very profitable
to Australia.”
The Sydney Telegraph reckoned the idea was a
splendid one, and published an enthusiastic leader to
that effect. In point of fact, there is nothing in it.
Australian dealers aren’t going to breed horses fit to
carry from 12 to 14 stone over an English country
on the off-likelihood of- getting from £BO to £l5O
for them landed on the other side. The risk and
expense of sending horses 12,000 miles are too big.
for one thing, and for another the Australian hunter
is so ill-suited to British conditions that the chances
of his selljng at all would be highly problematical.
His chief defect is that she “jumps too big,”
to use the jargon of the trade. He does this because
the fences of his native land have to be cleared,
unless the animal that attempts them wishes to have
its knees or its neck broken. In England and Ire-
land, except on rare occasions, a hunter can brush
through a fence to the extent of a couple of feet or
more. When Daimio, the famous M.L. steeplechaser,
ran in the Liverpool Grand National, he lost lengths
at every obstacle by his practice of jumping inches
clear of the top of the tremendous fences on the
Aintree course. And so it would be with most
Australian hunters. They would never fall, so long
as they remained more or less unfatigued bv their
needless exertions, but they could not live 'for 10
minutes with the rushing thoroughbreds of the Shires
—-animals which have been carefully trained to race
over everything but timber.
With tlfe sporting maxim “Ktorses for courses” may
be coupled the axiom “Horses for countries.” A
Leicestershire champion is of little value in the
stone wall regions of Galway, and similarly the tim-
ber-jumping wonders of the Sydney Show would be
wasted in most 1 parts of England, where wooden
fences .are as rare as virtue in Piccadilly. And it is
just as well. .What with Yankee, Japanese, Russian,
Indian, Cingalese, Straits Settlements, and now, at
latest, Siamese buyers, Australia is losing all the
nationally-serviceable horseflesh that it can afford, and
a considerable bit over.


IRONCLAD SWITCHGEAR
Manufactured by the General Electric Co. (U.S.A.), and
The British Thomson-Houston Co. Ltd., England, are the
Switches which should control all your mine and outdoor
Circuits. The contact surfaces are of extra large area, giving
a quick break under load with a minimum of sparking. The
outside casing is of cast-iron* absolutely protecting the inner
mechanism from all weather, and giving satisfaction under
the severest conditions.
Write for your copy of Bulletin No. 4.935.
' ,A
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC C
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
AGENTS
r PERTH, W. A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., “Mazda House,” Hay Street,
j BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Etd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
I ADELAIDE, S.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
I NEW ZEALAND.—The National Electrical & Engineering Co.. Ltd.. Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington-
99
“STOP! Mind that Step.
How often when entering or leaving an automatic lift have yon heard that warning? If the cage floor does not come
to the floor,level it indicates that the lift is not provided with a “Floor Setter,” or else it is defective.
All A.E.G. LIFTS are provided with a FLOOR SETTER
which stops the lift when the cage is level with the floor. It is operated by the car itself, and is thus not
affected by stretching of the ropes —the simplicity of the “Floor Setter” guarantees perfect operation.
Write for “A.E.G.” Lift Descriptive Leaflet 414. '
AUSTRALIAN METAL COMPANY LIMITED,
40-2 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.
172-0 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
CRANES and PULLEY BLOCKS
Manufactured by Herbert Morris Ltd. (formerly Herbert Morris (Si Baslert Ltd.)
800 CRANES IN STOCK
Ready for Shipment.
' ■ -*r
-a..
m
The Quality and Prices are Right.
J
Send tis your Inquiries.
895J8990
Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Cranes and BlocKs sent on request.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES—
We will send a Pulley Block on approval at our own expense to any user.
HAES &
163 Clarence Street,
<K^_SYDNEY


Shipping.
and
O
BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
•Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless i.eiegrapn.y.
tintending passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £l6, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: Geo. Wills k Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, Ate.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Heal Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President). W. 11. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. HALL.
DEPOSIT YOOR SURPLUS MONEY
in tin's Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 35% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from Is.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Branches
and over 500 Asrencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors : Hon. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
Hon. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A.; Hon. A. J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the
AUTHORISED CAPITAL ..
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (31st Dec., 1913) ..
RESERVE FUND
Companies Act.)
.. £2,000,000
- . £1,198,534
.. £1,195,446
£35,000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South Wales & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning
Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office;
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible,
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The lion. U. J. Roberts. C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
'J'iir lien. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary
Shipping.
'VT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
-Ll IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS,
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ, NAPLES, GENOA. ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-: 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111.. £3O/12/- to £37/16/
LOIIMANN and CO.. General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 2S days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
•Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“Pearl of the Pacific.’’
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street,' S.vdnej - .
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, kc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY 'j
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
♦CAIRNS
(♦Transhipping for
this and other
Queensland ports)./
NORTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 25.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 29.
Leaves Sydney May 2.
COOMA (4900 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne May 0.
Leaves Sydney May 9.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping: for
S'.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 25.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney May 2.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. “MATUNGA,”
MAY 6.
Brisbane, Cairns. Port
Moresby, Samarai and
Woodlark island.
&ito.
i 1
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “ MAKAMBO,”
JUNE 1.
Calling at about ICO Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
5.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD ~ Head Office,
SYDNEY.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability -
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£3,500,000
- £2,350,000
£3,500,000
£9.350.000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand McLaunn, ivt., M.ij.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office-29 Threadncedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London."
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. ,T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
o
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. ..£1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George ,T. Cohen, Esq... .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. . . Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onsi.ow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
London Office: IS Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; Hon. 11. S.
Littleton; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of |)eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares . . . . • . 500,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,000,000) Paid-
up .. . . .. .. .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, I-'iji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,304 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156,486 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 77,506 0 0
» • £778,291 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. *====
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: E. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
26 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots.
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
Thet r ip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply—44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail, and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. Gd. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
Marine Risks
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “ United ” is an Australian Institution.
THOMAS M. TINLEY. Manager.
Shipping;.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S, WANDILLA(77BS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
May 3 and June 6.
(Carrying First and
S"cond Saloon and
Steerage Passengers.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WARILDA (7713
May 2, Mav’sO,
27 and July 25.
tons'),
June
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO,. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS.
SAILINGS :
*Triple-screw steamer, fitted with cabins-de-luxe en
suite, Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., I.TD.
Managing Ascents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA SUEZ CANAL.)
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE.
12,500 Tons. CAPTAIN PRENTICE.
BRISBANE .. .. APRIL 25, 1914.
SYDNEY .. .. APRIL 28, 1914.
HOBART .. .. MAY 2, 1914.
ADELAIDE .. .. MAY 6, 1914.
Fares to London: Saloon, £4O to £45.
Third-Class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, from Brisbane, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck amidships, in-
cluding Lounge and Smoke Rooms. Well lighted and
ventilated cabins and spacious decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy.
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER. SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“llimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH k ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS.
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
WHAT IS
J
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Blood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may be regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & t|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1


Hotels. &c.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation ia Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel Is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAF<F regular!}' patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
ä
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/11.
Directions with every
bottle
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
for a fair dinkum go
THE
TRY
lEZON
Accordeons
The Wor d
Best
42/
63/
35
Sole
Agent
o
Bourkest
Melb
m
s3ank of Bustvalta
» SYDNEY
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE (
å
This Bank is open for all classes Of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued te any part of the world. Bills negotiated or forwarded for
coliection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
N.S.W. Branch Office : BERESFORD CHAMBERS, 30 CABTLEREAGH STREET
(top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Piranches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL Dkpott Governor.. Flbruary, 191 U. DENISON MILLER, Gov*?»o*
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, liberal Hand Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a field of unbounded scope to' the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
\ T. C. XROEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
\i; )
ir
v>)
Right to the Tick!
You wIM save
Time c. Money
by carrying an
*
i r x* hv R
WATCH.
Gent.’s Full-sized
Open Face Oxidised
Steel Lever Watch,
with 15
Jewels,
33 1-
FAIRFAX * ROKR'n
STDREV * LOKOON
MADE 1 H SWITZERLAND
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
YOU NEED A “PLUM” RAZOR.
Every man who wants to experience the comfort of an easy shave needs
A “PLUM” RAZOR.
There’s satisfaction in every shave when you use a “Plum.”
The blade is of the best ringing steel —tempered so accurately that there
is always a keen, cutting edge.
That’s the beauty of a “Plum”—there’s no dull edge to cause tugging
and soreness.
It cuts clean and clear, and leaves the skin soft as velvet.
ORDER ONE TO-DAY—IO/6 post free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
Cxv
Vi.
CRAIG AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
THERE’S AN
Abbey Shoe
in the style you prefer, and in a
size to fit your feet perfectly.
The Boot illustrated is a Glac6 Kid
Derby Bal«, 22/6. In special
quality, Leather-lined, 27/6.
Also in Box Calf, 27/6. And in
Tan Willow Calf, 25/- and 27/6.
Postage extra.
In Half-sizes and Quarter-fittings.
Send for a Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Strtset,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
y
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others ; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid, in-
ferior imitations to deceive v-ti. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
THE LAST WORD
IN STEAM ENGINES IS UNQUESTIONABLY
'jP'
V '■
MARS
. m.
A
which have demonstrated their superiority in every part of the Globe, and in every class of work, over a period of 60 years.
hr.
QUALITY and Positive RELIABILITY
are MARSHALL’S Watchwords
Ask any of the hundreds of satisfied users of MARSHALL'S PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTIONS, OIL TRACTORS, BOILERS, etc., throughout New South Wales,
what they think about their purchase, and you will be quite convinced.
"Can't be beat," "Best on earth," "Working constantly for 50 years without a hitch,"
"Worth their weight in gold," "Not a moment's lost time" these are a sample
of the remarks we hear every day throughout the year.
Don’t be persuaded into believing there are other engines just as good as MARSHALL’S!
Send for Descriptive Catalog post free. CASH OR VERY EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. ; ,
"COURTESY and ATTENTION AT COST PRICE”


■
-
Time to buy your
RUG
for the verandah chair or
bed, or when you travel . ,
Just because of the soft texture, the
beautiful harmony of pattern and
rare quality, we would have you know
of the
“UNEEDA” RUG
before you finally decide
A deeply fringed production, 60 by 80 inches
in size. A Rug that lasts for always and
will be a great comfort when you travel and
for the colder days to come.
Oil POST FREE IF
CASH WITH ORDER.
Send for one on approval.
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
Tco voomba BRISBANE Townsville.
It’s a gran’ thing to be a Lauder, ye ken !
But you never know of what vour wits are
capable until they’ve been urged to their
very best by just enough inspiration from
King George IV. —his topnotch whisky, ye
ken.*
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTE ? & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wal.>s Agents: FOGGITT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
Hylands. N.T. Director of Lands, just
sacked by the Cook Government, remarked
in leaving Port Darwin that settlement in
that country was impossible without a direct
transcontinental line. Rylands is not quite
right. Settlement in the N.T. without a
transcontinental line is quite possible—to
the Asiatic!
"'• - &
The Apology.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tlle worm cannot live more than two feet below
the surface, so the tales of his ravages' in the grave
are only delusions.— Fabre.
Here’s an apology—
Jolly old germ !
Hong have we libelled thee,
Brother and worm.
Here is the stuff we
Believed in of old,
Took it as gospel—the
l’lirest of gold—
Down in the sepulchre
There in his bower
Peasant and prince did lie
Gaily devour;
Little he cared for the
Fame of the dead,
So but his greediness
Duly were fed ;
Kaiser and Ivaiserin
Served him in turn.
Save when their ashes were
Locked in an urn.
Slaves of his appetite
Food for his jest
Hero and heroine
Hailed him as guest.
Marfyr and miscreant
Slaves of his wish
Figured impartially
Down on his dish.
Cliiefest of democrats.
Rank he despised ;
Beggar and potentate
Equally prized.
Now we discover that
Long we’ve abused him ;
Scientists tell us we’ve
Shamefully used him.
Never a grave doth he
Spoil with intrusion ;
lie and his ravage are
All a. delusion.
We shall escape Him —
O Brethren —be gay !
Him and his kin in white-
Coated array ;
Never again shall our
Sepulchres lodge him.
No matter what comes:
So long as we dodge him.
■ But. as we’ve libelled him.
Brother and Worm —
Here’s an Apology—
Jolly old Germ! !
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
Concerning Papua and a Dutch Commis-
sioner’s Reflections.
Myniieer Coenan, the Dutch Commissioner
who has been roaming through Australian
Papua with a view of finding out for the
Dutch Government liow things are done in
that progressive territory, has finished his
job, and sailed for the rice-fields of Batavia
once more. The shrewd, small Hollander took
care not to make his inquiries exclusively
in the company of Government officials.
Every now and then he broke loose, and wan-
dered alone among the plantations or up into
the hill country, asking as he went (like an
officer putting his head inside a barrack-room
CONCLUSION.
WIFE: “ I don't quite believe that story about Jonah and the whale. At any rate , I'll
get the rights of it from Jonah when I get to Heaven .”
HUBBY: “But Jonah may not be there !”
WIFE: “ Very well, then , dear, you can ask him
door) : “Any complaints?” Coenan’s con-
clusion is that there aren’t any com-
plaints Worth speaking about. He thinks
there ought to be Government tech-
nical schools for the natives, and that
every Papuan who goes to gaol ought
to be taught boat-building or carpentering
or house-building, or something of that kind,
before he comes out. Also, he thinks they
ought to tax the native. But he thinks a
good deal of the said native’s brain capacity,
and believes, on the whole, he is little behind
the much-praised Malay. It has been proved
on the Papuan plantations that a native of
the country can tap as much rubber as a
Javanese, and that he can handle machinery
wonderfully well. Coenan doesn’t think
Papua would gain by introducing Chinese,
or other, alleged cheap labor. According to
the Dutchman’s tabulations, the plantations
of Papua are paying at the rate of Is. to
Is. 4d. a day (the latter an extreme figure)
for their labor—including food, clothing,
wages, recruiting expenses and all holidays.
Chinese, Javanese and other mixed races
cost more. The color question, of course,
does not trouble him —the Dutch have no
objection whatever to any sort of a racial
mixture, even when some of the ingredients
are white —he simply says it wouldn’t pay.
Asked by certain discontented citzens why
the country wasn’t getting on, Coenan had
a simple reply. He said :
If the inhabitants talked less, and thought more,
Papua would be a better place. But they seem to
do their thinking with their tongues—perhaps, in
the absence of a more suitable organ. As regards the
land being taken up, I heard here and there that land
development had ceased. I looked up the returns,
and find that in 1910 10,053 acres were taken up.
In 1911, 15,881. In 1912, 24,707. In 1913, 35,363.
And in 1914, up to date, 42,000 odd. During the
last six years, 221,895 acres have been taken up in
all. There are 10 pastoral leases, including 20,042
acres, and eight timber leases, including 81,935.
There are 136 miles of road and many hundred miles
of tracks; the route for a light railway is being
surveyed ; and the oil fields are being developed. The
revenue is increasing steadily with every year. We
should be very well pleased indeed if' Dutch New
Guinea could say as much.”
The Dutchman is nothing if not thorough
and painstaking. Somebodv—many people-
told Mr. Coenan that labor was short for
the plantations. He went round to every
plantation in the Territory, and asked the
managers if it was true. Out of the lot,
three had complaints to make. One had 400
boys, and said he could do better if he had
more. Another said that he had boys enough,
but it was sometimes slow work getting them
recruited and signed on. A third was short
of boys (the explanation, according to his
friends, tying in the fact that he did not
know how to treat them, and had got “black-
listed”). There are over 10,000 boys now
at work in the Territory, according to the
Commissioner, and new sources of labor are
being opened up. He could not see that there
was any shortage, or likely to be any. On
the whole, Coenan has gone back to Dutch
territory much impressed with what he has
seen, and determined to say so. In Merauke,
the capital of Dutch New Guinea, there
are only 37 whites, and there are not as
many more in all the rest of that vast coun-
try. Nobody is taking, up land, nobody is
bringing in money, nobody is preventing any-
body from hunting, killing and eating any-
body else. It is impossible not to draw the
most significant comparisons. Coenan has
one hit to deliver. He is not impressed
with some of the settlers in Australian
Papua, especially amongst the townspeople.
He thinks the Dutch regulations, which
sternly fence out the beachcombing type and
the loafer, are better. It may be so, but Aus-
tralia herself has made a fine country out of
some very curious foundation stones. Any-
how, the Dutch administration has paid the
Commonwealth a big compliment.
♦
The Rev. Sams left Longreach under a
presentation shower of “opals, sapphires,
rubies, topazes, aquamarines and a purse of
sovereigns.” No wonder Sams remarked in
departing that what struck him most in
Queensland was its possibilities. A parson
who is a pug in Bananaland may pile up
popularity, and a pug who is a bit of a
parson may do ditto, but a parson who is
just. plain parson won’t get pelted with
specimens of Q. precious stones when he
levants from the Backblocks. A straight
left and a dirty right are of more value to a
Western sky-pilot than all the tongues of
Pentecost.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, April 18, 1914.
My Dear Tiiargomindaii,—
After enjoying the breezes of the bay at
the commencement of the holidays, his Ex-
cellency shortened sail at Southport and
came to an anchor, more or less, at the local
Show on Easter Monday. The Chamber of
Commerce people seized the opportunity (it
was the only thin; that the Macgregor
would part with at the moment) to explain
to him their labors. William the Speech-
maker, having surveyed these efforts, burst
forth into page after page from his notes
and departed, leaving enough boiling enthu-
siasm to necessitate a safety valve being
attached to the Mayor of Southport, or the
president, or dictator, or leading cannibal, in
case the boilers crack. To hear the .words
of the City Patriarchs one w T ould imagine
that, shortly, from sand and saltwater, there
would spring up a splendid monument to
their energy and far-sightedness, and that
none of the cost would be added to the
handicapping of posterity. Yet even the
sea wall of. the village is said to carry a debt
the weight of which is gradually pushing it
into tlie sand.
On Friday the Governor unloaded some
more speech on the University scholars, and
they, in retaliation, made a nuisance of
themselves. It was commemoration day, and
although Police Commissioner Cahill for-
bade the budding brain-boxes to “procesh”
they proceeded in a dreary line through the
streets. It was a poor display. Here and
there a penny trumpet sounded, and such
notices as “Are We Downhearted?—Yes,”
or “Will We Be A Long Time Dead? —Per-
haps” were shown. Detectives are still out
looking for the joke.
The bowlers have been feted during the
week, and their games interspersed with less
strenuous festivity. There have been the
usual At Homes and euchre parties. In
fact, the gay young bowler is altogether “in
it” in the city.
Henley, from a financial point of view,
was a tremendous success. The location
(Hamilton Wall), however, did not seem to
meet with overpowering approbation from
the public ;in short, there was much growl-
ing. Those who did not have large quanti-
ties of sand in their shoes walked
along the retaining wall in the blazing sun
and waited for the programme to show
cause. As events were about one hour and
a quarter late they were not disappointed
about the waiting, though the cause might
have its drawbacks. His Excellency and Lady
Macgregor entertained members of Parlia-
ment and their wifr.es and a number of other
guests on the State yacht Lucinda. Also,
the United Service Institute held a reception
and the Brisbane Club did likewise. House-
boats were conspicuous by their absence.
Interest centred in the race for the Queens-
land Ladies’ Championship, which was won
by the crew stroked by Miss Lea.
It is rumored that a well-known and
prosperous Brisbane man has been served
with a writ worth £2OOO for breach of pro-
mise. Most other men envy him, for to be
worth £2OOO of breach is a fine big circum-
stance.
A particularly popular Brisbane girl, Miss
Barbara Brand, was married suddenly and
without warning last week. It appears that
Mamma wanted to take her to England, but,
as the young man was remaining, the young
miss couldn’t find it in her heart to leave
him on his lonely in an unfeeling world.
So there was nothing for it if happiness was
to prevail but to sound the wedding gong
and pass the blessings. Mr. and Mrs. Doug-
las are now considering the moon. No com-
plajnts have been received.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
Governor Macgregor pointed out recently
at the annual meeting of the General Hos-
pital that during last year £1036 was spent
on nursing 233 alcoholics in that institution,
and suggested that there ought to be legis-
lation making this a charge on public houses.
Perhaps future hospitals may each be
fitted up with a Bung ward, equipped with
so many fantod and jimjam cots for the
benefit of them that imbibe too freely and
see too much. On the other hand, there is
a saying that men dig their graves with
their teeth and that the stomach is the root
of death and all evil. And if the farmers,
grocers and butchers were charged with the
maintenance of all patients whose troubles
arose from over-eating it would be quite a
new departure. Incidentally (to go back to
the original topic) the farmer who raises the
grain which makes the beer should contri-
bute to the upkeep of the alcoholic ward;
likewise the brewer, and cooper and bottle-
maker, and the liquor-importer, and the ship-
ping co. which carries the liquor and the
wharf-laborer who unloads it; likewise the
Governor, who draws his salary very largely
from drink revenue, and the Church, which
draws part of its revenue from teaching
about the miracle of Cana in Galilee. Many
other ramifications of the trade ought to pay
up, but they are too numerous to be enume-
rated.


.-V
. ::
a*~-y jjgp
F 'i 'Mar ' '''''W\s*j4
“Sfe
• . ■'
’
• - - v "
: . . V V-JU ' - '.ij
“i-
-.■:
'?■ -''■*' • '•■■■■•' --. 'i •« :• »>
r %
m. 3
m
m 1
•.
la>4*SC :
Ac
Hi?
*
. -
m
*Z'
.'.jX .
if
ii
:y> - V-
-.
m
VI
••■■* '• •••■
' :
V. rV-
«:, . ; ' , '"'3 .
■ 'V /
V & V- ;
|' V r'Kr;
*3ok.*"» V 1 1
•V
L
'•,
J •■’ :
-& ’ - . •: • \• '■ ■
’
1
m
: 3. r,'
v,
$
■
fe‘‘ '
_ v .■ - t
i • »5,
W;
:
w&
-> ii .
•■• - - -tfjlii ; ;«2 V ■ ■-•.- : • ■„, , - -. ; '•-- -***& **tmf*^i
■ ■
... ■£ 1 ■
1
-
1
4 n '
xm.
T
,
'■ .... " .'.
mt 1
'
m
f&m
ggPgj
... V *
•'*v . £
: «> *,J
. '.
J
iseaajvi
Vy *
Hy
b*: •:.:3
% ***v s ' rs-1
£ ■ ' V
• SI
■
••.■;; ~ .... '■:■■-' ..."
is ;1 I
m
m- ‘f 1
•vi, | f
. •
SS-*
's .
L i
-
; 3
V,
OSP
r ...’ ,/;
P^'
m
sm
~W- %'
- •
:r wv!*wvn>s@{*>-tc
.-.r :•.
■;*-' ■ ''' '•''- >
mhe*, 'fimk-'ic, n„:.a,^k
The Riviera of the
The Wittier Plays
Healthy and Delightful Climate.
LAM
Dommottwealth and
of Australia.
Enchanting Scenery.
Now is the time to migrate from the Winter Cold and
Fog of the South Land to the Genial Warmth and
Sunshine of Queensland.
The Exquisite Beauty of the Northern State’s Eastern
Seaboard is unsurpassed in any part of the World.
Descriptive Pamphlets and full particulars regarding the
Tourist Attractions and Resources of the State can be
obtained on application or by letter to
The Queensland Government Intelligence
& T ourist Bureau,
T. C. TROEDSON, Director. QuEEN STREET, BRISBANE.


Colds and
influenza
can be prevented by keeping
the body well nourished with
SCOTT’S Emulsion. Anyone
who is susceptible to chills,
coughs, colds or who suf-
fers from weakness, wasting
and poor health cannot
do better than take a course
of SCOTT’S Emulsion now,
and in this way gain the
health and strength that re-
sist and overcome weakness
and disease. You will avoid
worry and save time and
money, by insisting on genuine
'A
1874
1914
TRADE
MARK
scons
Emulsion
with the fishman trade mark
on the package.
LACTOBACILLI N E.
The bacillayy treatment of bacterial and fermenta-
tive affectations of the alimentary canal.
Lactobacilline pits the vigorous lactic ferment
against the less resistant organisms of decomposition,
with the' result that the latter are immediately
destroyed.
Lactobacilline is prepared under the scientific
supervision and control of
PROFESSOR METCBNIKOFF.
It is prepared in tablets to be eaten with meals,
and by checking intestinal putrefaction exerts a re-
markable influence towards the attainment of perfect
health. It is of special value in all affections of the
digestive tract, auto-intoxication, colites, intestinal
catarrh, chronic dyspepsia, etc.
Every cylinder of tablets bears the words: —
“Lactobacilline preparee par la Societe le Fer-
ment Seul Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff.”
Without which, none are genuine.
Lactobacilli he is sold in boxes containing eight
cylinders of Tablets —price, ss. 6d. —and can be
ordered through any chemist, or obtained direct from
the Depot Societe le Ferment, Australasia Chambers,
406-14 Queen Street, Brisbane ; or branches: Vickery’s
Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smeeton’s Build-
ings, Queen Street, Auckland ; from where all inform-
ation can be obtained.*
PARFUM
CHAMINADE
MO^
la
on
THE FAVOURED FRAGRANCE
OF SEVEN ROYAL COURTS.
Parfum “Chaminade" is exquisitely-
blended from many chosen uncommon
floral Extracts and-is the most
original as wellas the most . >
Nkjs alluring of all
- bouquets.
PARFUM “CHAMINADE”
HORNY 11/6 & 18/6 “Chaminade”
Bath Sa ts 5/6 13/6; “Chaminade”
Face Powder (5 tints) 7/6 ;
“Chaminade" Dusting Powder
7/5; “ Chaminade ” Toilet Water
7/6 & 13/6; Sachets 1/- & 3/u
MOKWY 201 REGENT ST. W.
THE MORNY FINE BATH AND PERFUME
PRODUCTS are retailed in Sydney by:—
WASHINGTON 11. SOUL, 160 Pitt Street.
PATTINSON & CO., 427 George Street.
FARMER & CO., 221-9 Pitt Street.
CIVIL SERVICE CO-OPERATIVE STORES OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LTD., 152-4 Pitt St.
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists, 149 King Street.
Wholesale Agents only: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES
LIMITED, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. SWAT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., K.C.; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
FOWMTPEN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255aGeorge St., Sydney
11
: f
i '«L.,
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
¥
Comer Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
ā
A SENSE of satisfaction is experi-
enced every time one wears a pair
of Bostock boots, and from this
consciousness of their fine quality springs
a natural and legitimate pride. One feels
that they will contribute to ease and ele-
gance on the most exacting occasions, and
one knows that their high quality will be
recognised every time they are handled.
This sense of satisfaction is the inevit-
able effect of the choice leather and beau-
tiful work so conspicuous in every pair of
Bostock’s. They are the cream of im-
ported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold.
801.
m.
m
m
Style 585
Picture Showmen!
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
KELVIN
GENERATING SET
The Silent
Empire Bioscope
and the
Kelvin Electric
Generating Sets
are unbeatable.
It is our business —and pleasure—to intro-
duce these machines to you.
The Empire is built of Steel—a Special
Steel —that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS—Engine and Dynamo direct coupled—stand alone in the Picture World.
We have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted wi
wheels. The Engine is Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiency.
Booklet on these Machines. ,
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested.
Send for our
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Cutter: Re that remark about “the
•hepherds and sheep of Bethlehem” happening at
Easter (instead of Christmas). The official date of
Christmas is supposed to be several months out.
One reason is that no shepherds of Bethlehem would
watch their sheep in heavy snow, and it is beastly
cold there in the middle of winter. Another is that
the 25th of December was a pagan festival before
it became Christian, and the sacred date is pure
guesswork. Another is that the oldest inhabitants
about Bethlehem, who are a curious mixture of
Arab, Hebrew, old Philistine (the Philistines being
a mob of exiled Greeks) and sundries (mostly sun-
dries), hold the legend that the real date was about
April. The comet, or other unexpected constella-
tion, which is called the Star of Bethlehem can’t
be accurately located. There is no trace in history
of that amazing uprooting of population when
Augustus ordered all the world to be taxed (as if it
wasn’t taxed before), and made everyone tramp to
his or her native town to pay the tax, so that date
is lost. How the wise men from the East came
westward to Jerusalem, and then south and a little
west to Bethlehem, because they saw a star in the
east is quite unknown, so the points of the compass
are lost. The paddock where the shepherds watched
their sheep is still exhibited; it is mostly rock and
contains only about enough feed for 10 sheep. How
many shepherds watched them isn’t known. Close
by is the boulder (tw* tons) which Abraham carried
into the country (reason for carriage not stated),
and the indigenous boulder (10 tons) on which
Elijah slept, the mark of his body being still visible.
By way of a casual, careless allusion to the local
tradition Tub Bulletin fixed the shepherd and the
sheep at Easter-time. It is a mistake to do such
things. Allowance should be made for the mental
limitations of religious papers such as the
Church Standaub. .. .Fishcase: Curse you and your
pointless yarn. We wasted five minutes finding out
that it ended nowhere... .Ruby P.: There is some-
thing in it, but it is not so much a story as a series
of shrieks and yelps. A string of sentenoes consist-
ing of three to five words each soon exhausts and irri-
tated the reader... .G.R.: The thanks of the basket
are yours.... Weemac: Not so much of a lie....
G.D.B.: Your rhyming ranges from desperate to fren-
zied. Try prose or wood-chopping... .A.F.H.. What
country or system are you railing against—China?
Surely there is enough freedom in this part of the
world for you ?.... W.W.R.: Wind rhyme fails to
blow in....No. 9: Sincere work, but the carpenter-
ing is rough.... Rev. F. W.: Poem excommunicated
and unfrocked... .Stale M.: No....G.B.: Keyed a
little too high, and the workmanship isn’t perfect. .. .
Oxo: It isn’t a story—it is just the foundation-stone
of one. Joke counted out. .. .11.L.: (Mount Lofty,
S.A.) : Throw yourself over the nearest precipice....
Suffragette: Why jibe in bad verse at the State
bread of N.S.W. ? Did you never get an unsatis-
factory loaf from the Private Enterprise baker ?. .. .
Roberum: Too late —but we wouldn’t have minded
if it hadn’t arrived until 1953... .Mary: A sort of
kitten paw-stroke in verse. .. . Monsoon: It isn’t the
season. .. .John R.: Both feeble. Don’t remember
original form of repaired poem, but guess it must
have been stronger than this version... .Desiree: You
may do better when you have written more. Both
poems fail gracefully. Sincere work, but the work-
manship is only medium, and you have nothing new
to say... .Jonathan N.: It went out at great
speed.... Earnest Ratcatcher: You have contrived
to mix your figures a good deal, but no doubt you
mean well —or badly-—or something. .. .Bel Binks:
The type of writer who intersperses his plaint with the
heart-cry “Bah!” gets nothing from us but the bird.
“Bah,” “pish,” “tush” and “fudge” have been on the
office “index expurgatorius” for years. .. .Pommy:
An accurate presentment of the position in the U.K.,
but our readers are already acquainted with the
matter....A Common Red Australian: Anybody who
jambs a column of typed matter up so close that even
the spirit of a State Flighter couldn’t leak between
the lines has a mighty poor chance of having the
matter read... .Phyllis Feedbag: After you...,
Ti-tree: Forward a newspaper account of the ease
and judgment... .Old Digger: Not worth it. Home
Rule will come in Ireland just as it came in Aus-
tralia and Canada and Maoriland and South Africa ;
and the village Methodist at Clunes (Vic.) shall not
prevail against it; nay, not even if his chapel cus-
tomers sing Gor’ Save and The Recessional by day
and the local yellow pup bays the moon by night
Pommy: No; none of any use. .. .Cleveland: So
you’re another of the bright, alert minds that fell
over the woman with the measuring tape. You make
us fatigued.... Constant Reader: Write to the Chief
Secretary’s Department, and ask it to pass the query
on to the. officer most likely to know. You’ve quite
as much time as we have. . . .L. Gaillard: You take
C. E. Jacomb seriously, which is the very last way
he should be taken... .R. Bailey: Letter passed on to
artist ' accordingly... .J.M.T.: We have no use for
examination-paper howlers. Almost every howler is
the same old howler thinly disguised.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jack P.: Buy some tuition and grow older—grow
a lot older before you contribute again.... Sam
McB. (V.) : If ever you see a gnome like that, kill
it... .Peter F.: Drawing is crude, and that type of
humor doesn’t appeal to as....C.R.C. (S.A.) : The
old complaint—stiff drawing, limp joke... .H.M.S.:
The drawing is crude enough to be original. You
are an honest artist, but at present an impossible
one. .. .K.IJ.F.: All your people have had their faces
ruined in boiler accidents. Don’t send any more
Billy N.: It’s just revolting. Learn to draw and try
to grow a sense of humor. There’s no joy in your
line, and your people are just crude iron gro-
tesques ted H.: Very old gag, accompanied by
paralysed hair-line drawing... .Tom G.: Both un-
suitable E.R.F.: Old gag and useless little dia-
gram F.C.: Thoroughly unnatural production.
How did you come to do it?... .J.J.B. (Q.) : You
send four drawings, and we would send back four
drawings if you had supplied us with a stamp for
that purpose. As it is, the outrages will have to
welter unransomed on the premises.
“Y’s” reminiscence:—
The value of death-bed depositions (referred to in
The Bulletin of 9/4/’14) recalls one of the most
peculiar deposition cases ever tried in N.S.W. The Judge
who presided was the late Alfred Stephen, and the
official who took the deposition* was Dowling, for a
time police magistrate and afterwards District
Court Judge. It was reported to Dowling that a
German Jewess in George-street, Sydney, was on her
death-bed and that the circumstances pointed to a
tragedy. He grabbed the Court Bible and pen
and paper and hurried to the house. The husband of
the woman was also of the Jewish race, and was at
the bedside when Dowling entered. The medical re-
port was that the case was unmistakably one of
poisoning. The woman emphatically accused her
husband. “Tear, tear,” murmured her husband,
“vat a meestake; vat a meestake.” It came time to
swear to the statement, and Dowling, holding the
Bible towards the woman’s lips, was noaring the
close when her husband jumped at him. “Vat you
doing?” he cried, “Vat you doing? Dat is no good.
Jew only svears true on his own Bible, de Hebrew
von.” Dowling paused. The husband rushed to a
near shelf and dragged down a book. “Here,” he
cried, “dat is de Hebrew; dat is de fella to make de
true oath. Svear her on that.” Dowling, pained at
the scene, accepted the Hebrew book and took the
dying woman’s oath. At the trial before Stephen
the Jew objected to the depositions going in. “Was
it a Hebrew Bible?” asked Stephen. “It was a book
in Hebrew,” answered Dowling. “Do you know
Hebrew?” asked the Judge. “No,” answered Dow-
ling, “but the accused said it was.” “Then you don’t
know that it was a Bible at all. I must rule that
the depositions cannot go in.” Without the deposi-
tions there was little evidenee and the German
Israelite was pushed into the sunlight.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
this a genuine bargain.
It has a hogskin seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, which extends all round
and thus adds years cf wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It lias a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. I*. Talty, 388 Sus'jx Street, Sydney.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
ă
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Freedom, Ease S Comfort
The ...
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll. "
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
(T -
Tills Australian Magazine—THE
HAND. The National Monthly.
HONK
Price. 6d.
WAVE2LEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS.
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
• DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 521 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
AUTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
f
I J
J
■>
w,,
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVEH
\X7HO are the Gillette users ? Men
» * of independent means —men
who welcome the Gillette because
of the money it saves them —nearly
all the young men —and the old ones
who know that the clean Gillette
shave every morning keeps the face
youthful and fresh.
To you and every other man the Gillette means a cool, velvet-
smooth shave every day, in three minutes or less. It is the only razor
you can adjust to suit yourself.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
HO STROPPING NO HONING
« /1 /'
Rest and Comfort
for
the mother, and health for the baby follow the
use of the ‘Allenburys’ Foods. They resemble
healthy human milk, in composition, nutri-
tive value and digestibility. Babies fed on
the ‘Allenburys’ Foods invariably thrive well.
PAMPHLET ON INFANT FEEDING
AND MANAGEMENT FREE.
MILK FOOD No. 1.
From birth to 3 months.
MILK FOOD No. 2.
From 3 to 6 months.
MALTED FOOD KO. 3.
From 6 months upwards.
The ‘Allenburys’ Rusks
(Malted).
A valuable addition to the baby’s dietary when
ten months old and after. They provide an
excellent, nourishing and appetising meal,
specially useful during the troublesome time
of teething. Eaten dry they mechanically aid
the cutting of teeth.
Allen & Hanburys Ltd., London, England, and Market Street* Sydney.
Foods
a
HI
COOKE’S
PATENT
REVERSIBLE
LEVEL
Specially designed with two objects in view:
first, to afford an easy, efficient, and at all
times available means of adjusting the line of
collimation of the telescope to perfect perpen-
dicularity to the vertical axis of the instrument;
and, secondly, to obtain a form of construction
in which elegance and great compactness are
attained and strength and rigidity secured.
Pamphlet describing construction, and on the
adjustment of above on application.
A. P. GREENFIELD & CO. LTD.,
189 George Street, Brisbane,
Sole Australian Agents.
MOUtl-L
THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence in vited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
in
Prizes
£lOOO
£lOOO
Work of Art. Work of Art
First Great Prize, vai«e £5OO
or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and
£lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON,
or Eight Months for Two.
Note. —The Committee, having paid full
value for the work of art, is prepared to find
a purchaser for same at the advertised
amount if the winner so desires, also for the
Second and Third Prizes.
Second, Value £lOO.
Third, Value £5O.
And 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
Eight Hours
Great Art Union
58th Year —Oldest and Most Popular—
58th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals and
Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will be delivered to winners free of
all charges. A list of winning numbers wil|
be posted to any person on sending an ad-
dressed envelope to t-he representative, witfy
stamp unaffixed.
Buy from your Local Agent on or before
2nd May, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the
representative, 165 Flinders-lane, Melbourne,
at once for tickets, and secure a chance in
this great Art Union, 22 for £l, 11 for 10s.,
or Is. each.
All direct applications must reach, Melbourne
before the date of drawing, 19th May, 191
Lest You Forget, Buy To-day
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of eases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
N.S.W. Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, or a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.


“Chasuble”: Archbishop Clarke, while in
W.A., laid it down: (1) that the Church of
England in Australia will have to change its
name. (He proposes “Anglo-Catholic” as a
fitting disguise.) (2) That the said Church
must have its own denominational day-
schools for the poor as well as the rich, if
it is to dodge extinction. Carr and Clarke
will yet be seen taking wine together, as a
friendly preliminary to a joint demand for
State aid for secular schools.
Amusements.
OICKAKDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSIt.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
THE ELLIOTT SAVONAS, in their Palace of Orpheus.
W. C. FIELDS, the Silent Humorist.
SAM STERN, “An Entertainer.” That’s all.
THE FIVE MERRY YOUNGSTERS.
THE SHENTONS, in a Vocal and Dancing Scena.
Mdlle. MARGUERITE & FRANK GILL, Tangoists.
MARSHALL CROSBY. ROSA ROMA.
And a Great Company of Established Favorites.
PRICES, 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 1/-
T IVOEI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
ADA REEVE, the Queen of Vaudeville.
TUCKER, the Singing Violinist.
GILDAY & FOX, Hebrew Delineators.
GOLDEN ATHLONES, in Postures, Plastiques.
RUSSELL CARR, Ventriloquist.
THE CREOS. Continental Acrobats.
VERA ROCHDALE, France’s Petite Soubrette.
Plan at Allan’s.
SHT-PRICES—4s.. Bs.. 25., Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
TIVOLI THEA T R E, ADELAIDE
' THIS WEEK.
WATERBURY BROS. & TENNEY, Novelty Musical
Comedy Act.
D A UNTON SHAW TROUPE, Australia’s World-
famous Cyclists. i
“THE TWO BOBS,” A Rag or Two, a Song or Two,
A Laugh or Two, by a Bob or Two.
TOM DAVIS TRIO, Motoring in Mid-air.
Heather Belle, Amy Rochelle, Four Ilomaz, Ina
Laragy, Austin and Cowan.
TIVOLI THEATRE, P E R T H.
1 HARRY RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JOSEPHINE DAVIS.
TALLEUR & READE.
TALLEUR ANDREWS, the Matinee Idol.
BARTON & ASIILY, in “Money Talks.”
ROSE & ELLIS.
GRAUS BROTHERS. ROMANO BROS.
JACK SHIELDS.
BIOSCOPE.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
Ul E R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
EVERY EVENING, AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., have much pleasure in
presenting their STUPENDOUS PANTOMIME
. EXTRAVAGANA, which this year is based upon the
attractive story of
THE FORTY THIEVES.
Written by Frank Dix. Music by Andrew MacCunn.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
THE GREAT WHITE CITL
RUSHCUTTER’S BAY, SYDNEY.
Australia’s Premier Pleasure Resort.
A Fairyland of Palaces of Pleasure.
Made for Merriment. Fashioned for Fun.
The Mecca of the Merrymaker.
FREE ATTRACTIONS.
The Thrilling Trapeze Act of
THE AERIAL BENOS.
THE TWO ROMAS.
OPEN-AIR THEATRE.
PROMENADE CONCERTS
MILITARY BAND.
Nightly, 6.45 to 11. Saturdays., 2 to 11 p.m.
INCLUSIVE ADMISSION. SIXPENCE.
CHILDREN’S CARNIVAL SATURDAY AFTERNOON.
General Manager: T. H. E3LICK, C.E.
U/IRTH BROTHERS’ CIRCUS, LIMITED,
ww GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
LOCATION: PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
A MAMMOTH PROGRAMME OF FEATURE ACTS.
OUR 1914 ATTRACTIONS THE BEST YET.
WORTHS’ FAMOUS MENAGERIE,
NOW BIGGER AND BETTER THAN EVER.
Plans at Paling’s, Hotel Australia & Hotel Sydney.
Admission to Combined Shojvs: ss. (Reserved
Chairs), 45., 35.; Gallery, 2s. One ticket admits to
everything. . Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
Children under 10. half-price to all Matinees.
DELPHI TIIEAT It E. SVI) N E Y
Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY. LTD.
A
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S AMERICAN MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in the greatest musical comedy success
of New York,
THE TENDERFOOT.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-
D APACE T II E A T It E S V I> V E Y.
■ Direction ALLEN DOONE.
Last Two Nights of the WEARING OF THE GREEN.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 25.
ALLEN DOONE
will present a revival of the pretty play,
MOLLY BAWN.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Day Sales, White Rose.
N
ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
EVERY NIGHT, AT 8.
LEONARD k WILLARD. Comedy Duo.
FREDERICK C. TTAGAN & CO.
CARL BENTZEN & PHYLLIS LAWTON.
VERNADE, Acrobatic Act.
DENIS CARNEY, Stilt Dance.
THE JAKOWLEW TRIO. IL TROVATORE TRIO.
PRICES as usual. Plan at Theatre.
THE EIT T E E THEATRE
1 CASTLEREAGH ' STREET, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
MATINEE, THURSDAY, 2 p.m.
MR. HUGH BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
Present that Delightful Comedv,
by Sir ARTHUR IV. PINERO,"
THE GAY LORD QUEX.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Day Sale at White Rose.
VNTED ATTRACTIONS for SARSFIEED’S
PICTURED ROME and VARIETY
THEATRE. GEEN INNES.
Variety Artists, Dramas, Musical Comedies, etc.
Only the best booked. Holding capacity of the
Hall, 800.
OTAGE—WANTED GIRL, age 20, able to Sing and
Dance, to double with Versatile Comedian. Send
Photo and References.
R. H. SARSFIELD,
Theatre, Glen Innes.
Amusements.
| MPEBIAL SALON DE LUXE.
Late Foot of William St. Rink.
Direction BENDRODT & IRVING
J. C. Bendrodt, Man. Director
G. C. IRVING, Gen. Manager.
PALAIS D E EAEC E.
AFTERNOON TWICE EVENING
3 to 5. DAILY. 8 to 11.
Catering only to First-class Patronage.
SESSIONS AND CHARGES:
MONDAY 'j
WEDNESDAY | Afternoons.
and (Admission, 2/6.
THURSDAY J
GENERAL ADMISSION, 3/-.
Telephone 652 William Street.
You haven’t seen Sj'dne.v until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES,
■ ... In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs ot the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GItEATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Bariiikoton Miller, General Manager.
QLACIAItIUM AND OLYMPIA. SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
'WEST'S PICT (J EES, LTD.
“REST OF ALU”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GItOEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
g PEN C E It’S LYCE UM, SYI)N E Y.
THE WORLD’S "BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/- fc 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
ETDWABI>BRAN S C O M Ii E ' S
SIX COMPANIES OP
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GARDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE. ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
CORONATION HALL, BONDI JUNCTION.
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of the BERT BAILEY Combination
in the American Comedy-Drama,
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OVER MERE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Australian Production of the Sensational Drama,
MADAME X.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Melbourne repertory theatre
Direction .. GREGAN McMAIION.
AT ST. PETER’S HALL, EASTERN KILL,
Inaugural Performance of the Australian Series of
Repertory Plavs.
SATURDAY, APRIL 25,
Alfred Buchanan's
THE IMAGE BREAKER.
Philip Rav’s
LA FEMME RTANTE:
Box plans at Pianola Co. and Booklovers’, 2/6 & 1/-
ATHENiEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
** Commencing
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, 23rd INST.,
MR. ALEXANDER WATSON
Will give a
SHORT MELBOURNE SERIES
Comprising
TO-NIGHT—THE E VERLASTING
MERCY.
(For the First Time in Australia.)
FRIDAY—NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.
SATURDAY—KIPLING NIGHT.
MONDAY—MACBETH.
3/-, 2/; I/- FAMILY TICKETS (Reserved), 10/-
Plans and Tickets at the Pianola.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
$
filming tori-UMc Arms and Ammunition
Appeal to Users
Because they enjoy tne confidence
of sportsmen everywhere. Shooters
ambitious to improve their scores
instinctively choose Remington-UMC
Ammunition because so many
notable records have been made
with this brand of cartridges. Send
for our special circular and it will
give you a list of these records and
full information concerning them.
Remington-UMC Rifles piease their
owners because they are so easy
to take apart, easy to clean, and so
accurate. Their solid breech counts
for strength, for beauty and long
life. You would not have a watch
with the “works” exposed, then
why a rifle? The “works of a
Remington-UMC Rifle are protected
by a solid steel encasement.
Your dealer probably sells Remington-UMCArms and Ammunition. If he does
not as yet, write to us and we will give you the name of one who does— also
send you our catalog and an interesting book “Straight Shooting Tips.”
Remington Arms—Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299-301 Broadway * • • New York, U. S. A
Australian Kepresentative: D. D. Bryant, P.O. Box 686, Melbourne.
m
»
mm
STRENGTH BY MAIL
I can make you a Wonderfully
Powerful Man Bodily.
YVealth, happiness, success, everything in life
depends on the condition of your body. If it is
below par you need my course of personal Individual
instruction in Physical Development. The greatest
builder of broken physical resources.
Mv instructions are strictly individual, simple,
direct, easy and inexpensive.
No matter what the condition of your health and
strength, write to me to-day, and let me prove to
you that I can positively make you the strong, healthy
man you would like to be.
MAIL A CARD TO-DAY for my FREE Booklet,
“HEALTH AT HOME,’" and terms.
GEORGE FITZROY,
Physical Culture Expert,
(Dept. B), 66 OXFORD STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
"[■HE EVENT OF 19X4.
Visit of
MISS ELLEN TERRY.
SHAKSPEARIAN DISCOURSES WITH
ILLUSTRATIVE ACTING.
Supported by other Distinguished Artists.
MELBOURNE, MAY 7, 9 and 11-
TOWN HALL
SYDNEY, MAY 14, 16, 18-
TOWN HALL.
BRISBANE, MAY 21, 23-
EXHIBITION
NEW ZEALAND TO FOLLOW.
I
THE LONDON ENTERTAINMENTS’
SYNDICATE.
Direction: JOSEPH BLASCHECIv.
M. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Manager.
J . & N. TAIT announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
HARRY LAUDER.
Melbourne, Princess's Theatre, NOW APPEARING
Adelaide, commencing MAY 9.
Sydney, commencing MAY 30.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JULY 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
For particulars write to J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne,
Sole Directors of Harry Lauder’s Tour.
Q L I M I’ I A. O I. Y M p I a.
w L V’ M 1> 1 A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
w EST’S PALACE. MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTUBESthe best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
46
Harry Lauder
Edison Records
Harry Lauder —the greatest and
highest salaried comedian of the day
—is in our midst.
Naturally everybody would like to
hear this inimitable artist, but only a
percentage of those who live in the
large cities will be so favored.
But —every possessor of an Edison
Phonograph can hear Harry Lauder
in his own home, for most of his suc-
cesses are to be got on Edison Records.
Go to your nearest Edison dealer and
hear them —there are 4S altogether.
THOS. A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), Dept. 8.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
ą
Mi
DIRECT FROM
SWITZERLAND.
Waists from 2/9
Babies’ Dresses „ 4/9
Girls’ Dresses „ 8/6
Ladies’ Dresses „ 9 6
Delivered free of postage. All I
our embroideries are unmade,
but we deliver paper patterns
for all our styles to order.
Write to-day for complete
catalogue 209 of our famous
Swiss Embroideries, on ba-
tiste, voile, crgpe, linen, and
all the latest silk materials,
with finest Paris fashion
plates, sent free on request.
Stamp letters 2Jd.; cards Id.
ǻ
ä
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.


Soft and White
%
T
With
Cuticura Soap
And Ointment
Treatment: On retiring, soak the
hands in hot water and Cuticura
Soap. Dry, anoint with Cuticura
Ointment, and wear soft bandages
or old loose gloves during the night.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A .liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Clogged-Up Liver
Causes Headache
It’s a foolish proceeding to suffer from
constipation, sick headache, biliousness,
dizziness, indigestion and
kindred ailments when
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS will
end all misery in
a few hours.
Purely vege-
table. Act
gently on
liver and
bowels.
/
Carters
■ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
æ
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs:
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. B. ALLEN’S ~,,,
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equallv suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing’ it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED. 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
1914.
“Mushet” & “Double Mushet”
HIGH SPEED STEELS
Pr
i§ b
and
“MUSHET”
HIGH SPEED
Twist DRILLS
MAKERS—
SAMUEL OSBORN & Co.
LIMITED,
CLYDE STEEL WORKS,
SHEFFIELD.
(Samuel Osborn & Co. Ltd. have again secured
the contract for the supply of High Speed Steels to
the British Admiralty.)
SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO. LTD.
ǽ
535 Kent St., Sydney, and 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
Telephone Nos., 1356 and 2663.
Steel Department—Tel. City 218.
zm
■XEND
B RACES
For Men who know
Quality , Comfort, Style
At first class shops ,
31 -
&
AUSTRALIANS
IN LONDON
will be glad to know of the numerous
amenities and pleasant sides of hotel
life presented by the Hotel Russell.
The visitor feels more like coming
into the atmosphere of English home-
life at its best than entering an hotel.
c There is that domesticity of service
and general environment that make for supreme comfort and homeli-
ness. The cooking is faultless ; the style and scheme of furnishing
luxurious but restrained ; the tariff modest.
At the centre of London’s throbbing life,
it is yet peaceful and quiet, overlooking the
park-like Russell Square. A penny ’bus fare
from almost any spot of interest in London.
l owiiMissei
London
Rtf
Hunyadi Janos
The prime recommendation of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water is that it far surpasses manufactured
aperients as a remedy for Constipation, Biliousness, Indi-
gestion, Hemorrhoids, Torpid Liver, etc. It is bottled
at the springs, just as Nature creates it, without the addition
of any other constituent.
All chemists sell Hunyadi Janos. Get a bottle to-day.
CONSTIPATION
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Oniy Genuine
OonTincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOU BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Price* In
■narinmi—
VH, 2/8 At 4/6,
Made in England.
t’hltirctf*
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attack* •>
SPASMS and COLIC.
TM Best Medloine for
COIIBHI, GOLDS, ASTHMA, and In
The Much of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Aota Ilka a /ahami In
DIARRHOEA and slmplo DYSENTERY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The very first item of the loan Estimates laid be-
fore the N.S.W. Parliament for 1913-14 is a stun-
ning piece of effrontery to set down among
Permanent and Reproductive Works. It is only: “Roll-
ing stock to meet additional traffic requirements,
and equipment of new lines, £548,000.” How any
sane and sober man can pretend that such things as
railway carriages and waggons, which are liable
to be smashed up every time a wrong signal happens
to be made or a fog happens to hide the right one
are Permanent is a mystery. What is the average
life of rolling-stock on the N.S.W. railways? It
would be an exaggeration to put it as high as 10
years. There was a time when George Reid tried to
include cups and saucers for the Jenolan accommo-
dation house among the Permanents and Reproduc-
tives, and being scoffed out of that he charged them
to a 30-years’ loan. Of course somebody dropped the
cup long before 30 years expired—in fact, one cup
was dropped inside a week. The locomotive and
passenger carriage and cow-truck aren’t quite so
perishable, but they aren’t Permanent by a long way.
Nothing is—not even the oldest inhabitant.
Just before Easter Australia’s wireless expert, J.
C. Balsillie, lodged an application for a patent for
the rain-making apparatus on which he has been en-
gaged the last two years. No details are given
until the complete specification is lodged, inside nine
months, but it is known that Balsillie’s idea is to
employ electrical forces to artificially bring about a
condition in the atmosphere similar to that which
Nature produces when rain is precipitated. (Any-
body who can frustrate the patent rights by working
on this information can have them.) Arrangements
are alleged to be under way for a trial of the device
over a tract of country embracing something like
10,000 square miles, which is a large and expensive
proposition (like the £5,000,000 capital co. into
which it is proposed to float the concern later on).
“Wonga”: The butter barons and their agents have
spent much time and talk in the vain hope of crip-
pling the margarine trade in John Bull’s country.
It was hoped to do this by persuading Bull’s Parlia-
ment to prohibit the use of coloring matter in mar-
garine. Said coloring matter is used to make the
stuff look like butter, and it does it with such suc-
cess that between the good looks and the low price
of the substitute it is reckoned that for every 10 of
Bull’s residents who purchase one pound of butter
five or six buy' margarine. The latter circumstance,
backed up by the enormous vested interests at stake,
makes the anti-coloring agitation in Australia look
hopeless. This fact is, no doubt, coming home to
those concerned, and the alternative —viz., the pro-
duction of more first-class, and less fourth- and
fifth- and 13th-class butter —is so obvious that
it cannot be much longer dodged by the dirtiest and
laziest cow-farmer. For the rest, the best he can
hope for is to insist on the local manufacture of
margarine being honest. Money is going into the
business, now that science has found a way of pro-
ducing a high-class margarine from cocoanuts; and
if this local margarine is allowed to be colored to
loolk like the butter that it isn’t, there is going to be
a. horrible slump in the Cow Kingdom. The local
Shutter trade is still the biggest thing in the dairying
industry, and if a big slab of that is lost, in addi-
tion to what goes through the competition of mar-
garine abroad, a lot of dairy farms will be for sale
cheap.
* * * »
“McNorth”: Lots of Papuan rubber plantation
shareholders are wondering when Papua is going to
start producing the milk that spells dividends. For
the last three years it has been standing matter in
managers’ reports that “tapping will commence next
year,” yet they haven’t exported much or tapped
loud enough to make anybody open the door. One
factor of the delay was caused by the importation of
managers and others from “the East” —men who
were really bookkeepers and clerks, and quite igno-
rant of the practical side of the business. They were
able to roar “boy” when their boots required to be laced
or their cigarette to be lighted, and were, no doubt,
suited to the old-established plantations of Malaya
and elsewhere ; but they were unfit to carve a place
out of the scrub and put up with the hardship conse-
quent on pioneering in a new country. Consequently,
mistakes were ipade and money lasted. Trees were
planted badly and at the wrong season. General
chaos reigned. These facts, coupled with a complete
ignorance of local conditions spelt ruin for more than
one company. Many of the survivors, however, have
chased the rien from “the East” off the premises and
substituted local men, who are chiefly Australians;
and as the Australian is a grafter, it won’t be for
want of hard work if Papua doesn’t grow rubber.
But there are other reasons why the rubber industry
may not flourish in Papua, not the least of which is
the possibility that the conditions of Papua may not
be suited to the Para rubber, a native of South
America, and the variety chiefly planted. This variety
was chosen in preference to the indigenous kind, as
it was reputed to hear sooner. So far it hasn’t
borne anything to speak of, though the people who
run the show have borne a load of anxiety, likewise
the heat and burden of the day.
* * ♦ *
“Tiaki”: Our brown brother, Renata Topoi, had
a small piece of land with a small Maori whare on
it. There were only five acres in the section, but
as it adjoined the farm of Peter Collins it was
extremely necessary for easement and roading pur-
poses that Peter should acquire it. Peter offered
more than the market price. Renata, suspecting that
the ground must have a secret value which he
couldn’t fathom, shook his tattooed top-piece and
replied, “Me no wanna sherrim.” He hinted that
sentiment accounted for the refusal. His uncle was
buried there, or his dog, or something. Eventually
a joint inspection of property was arranged, and,
strange to say, a sale was arranged next day at
Peter’s own price. The arbitrator, a base English
creature from Somerset, gave me the key to the
whole thing. He said: “Yew knoa them green liz-
zurds —they burkes like a durg? Theyur wuz wun
uv ’um spitting en’ burkin’ on the dooer step when
ole Rennatur got theyur.” Somerset had been hired
to catch a green lizard and glue him down to the
doorstep, and, when poor old Renata arrived, the
green devil, fearful lest he should be trodden on,
opened his purple mouth and barked like a dog. The
M.L. lizard ( Tiligua Zealandica) does this sort of
thing. He is a beast of ill-omen and is about as
welcome to Henare as a visit from Beelzebub or a
bailiff. Then I understood what Renata meant when
I asked him why he had sold. “Rei aha maku te
whare ngararaf Me hoko,” was his answer, which
means. “Hang the reptile house. Sell it.”
MY CREDITORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The birds they are my creditors,
And they, each morning, will
Come to my window after crumbs
Each with his little bill.
Yet when I see them on the sills
One thought my pleasure numbs:
There’s always such a lot of bills,
And such a dearth of crumbs.
With envy on my feathered friends
I look. Oh, would that I,
Unheedful of the falling due,
Had feathers left to fly!
Then would I fly from one gross man
Who threatens me with gaol;
Each day he brings his little bill
And nags his weary tale.
My feathered creditors who come
Will sometimes bill and coo;
This bloated monster threatens me
That he will bill and sue.
He makes a burden of my life,
So close he clings to me;
Alas, I am not like a bird
Though I am up a tree 1
N.S.W.
HAMER.


GUNS
of Quality
and Stability.
a
ISAAC HOLLIS S SONS’ “ THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from 7|lb. to 7Jlb. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut stock. f
DELIVERED, <SbO IZS. OCf,
, mm
frWmm
' •’ •
J
mm
mm
mam
■ tm
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12 or IG-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left ctioke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of l-s-gauge, about ; of IG-gauge, about 6Jjlb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
m-
m
; ~-
-v
Send for our Price List of
Guns, Rifles and Ammunition.
Post Free Anywhere.
11 The Continental " D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siernen’s steel barrels, both .choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end ; weight—l2gauge, about 71b.; IG-gauge, about 6Jib. Delivered, £3/15/*
GUN REPAIRS
a Speciality.
All kinds of Gun
Parts in stock.
D.8.8.L.
GUN,
DOMOULINS’
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight about 71b„ patent fore-end, POST FREE £4 4s
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
™*l HOOT INO U R EQU?S I Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney; and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s Eng lish Ale. Old Orkney (O O) Whisky.
Dog's Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
m
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because : the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address : “ FENANKLE,” New York.
A
A. B. FARQUHAR & CO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its accion is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the. torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd./Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd,
SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why not give them a trial ?
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrir
England, Gd. How to Gut Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
11NKS SIIiKNT FItIKND, Is 6d. NED DONNELLYS ART
ok Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
llow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moi.l
Flandhrs, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating tiib
Horsr, is. Ventriloquism Madk Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Gd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/g.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
W indow Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book 2/.
Adventures ok a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games
is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert, Wales. 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illns., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals)
3s Gd. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
llow to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book ok Strength, 3s posted
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
ok Paris, Is Gd. History ok the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handrook, ss. Not Guilty (Platen*
ford), 9d. , The Art ok Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and is Gd
God and My Neighror, Gd. Britain kop. the
British, 6d. How to Bead Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
’s 3d. Theory of Value, IsGd. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, i s
How to Make Sweets. Jams and Syrups. Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, is 6d!
111
NOAIE CYCLOPEDIA
' EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pastes.
IT IS FItEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their phvsician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20t'n Genturv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANA address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
I *“ BOOKSELLER TO THE commonwealth.
(iIPS\ t OUTLINE TELLING CARDS— LOVE,
BUSINESS,' FUTURITY, &c., with full directions
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working eor Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting etc. Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is, How to
Mesmerise, Is Sri. Man From Snowy River 4=
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic Is Every
Man His Own Carpenter*, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
AND LIGHTNING CALCULATOR, Is. TflE DOCTOR, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letted. Writer Up-
To-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations'and portraits 1= • post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple U iew) 4s 'Cd
Sklf Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinkt Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
COMPLETE BOOKKK.KITNG. 2s. LIFE OF DEEMING,
illustrated, Is Id. How MoDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Ski.e Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
;>s Gd posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
ot h rs, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets. Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. Tiik Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. SKS~Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BERR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL ILEA OF MV STOCK CAN
IJE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Sta»-e Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, <"eimi’ne
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. 1)r. Milford's .Mid’
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d
Aristotle, 3/0. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok the
Ring, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2<i
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Kev ’to ali
Decrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post
I.NGKRSOLL'S WORKS, Bd, 2s. HOW TO HEAD HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
'Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free
Bennarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Ci)rk, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus.. leather
bound, my (trice, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and i
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing’ ls 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univkrs At
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets op Clairvo’y.ance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com.
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’


IVY SCHILLING,
(May & M. Moore
photo.J
4
Miss IVY SCHILLING
SWEARS BY
REXONA
Probably the. most sensational item ever given on an
Australtan stage is the gorgeous “Spider Dance,” given by
Mms Ivy Schilling and that noted artist and dancer, Mr.
i ( ied JiCslie, in the brilliant revue, “Come Over Here,” which
is now proving such a brilliant success at Her Majesty’s
Theatre, Melbourne.
cj e M j? s was the winner of West’s Pictures
burf Sirens Comnetition, in which close on 100,000 votes
were recorded. Her figure is a perfect model of athletic
symmetry and grace. To preserve its litheness, its vigor,
and its strength, she uses REXONA.
This is what the admired acrobatic actress says:—
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
The Manager, “Rexona,” Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in recommending
your Rexona, for I have been using it constantly for
some time. As a rub-down after acrobatic dancing, and
a magical reviver to strained muscles, I have found it
excellent. After surfing it is invaluable as a protection
against sunburn and freckles. It is a wonderful healer,
and I always keep a tin of it handy.
Yours sincerely,
( S<?d.) IVY SCHILLING.
There are so many uses for Rexona that a pot of this
New Rapid Healing Ointment should be kept in every
home. One day it may be useful to cure sunburn, another
day to cure pimples, heal the cuts, bruises or scalds
which are for ever occurring in everyday life. Again
for the more serious complaints, such as Bad Begs. Tiles’
Bczema, Ringworms, and the various forms of Skin
Disease, Rexona is a proved remedy.
Rexona is sold in triangular pots at 1/6, or in larger
pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
Free
Play
BR
X
ICE
IL
m
m
YfA
Most Famous Sliding Cord
<ton
i-iV
Brace in the World
- e
Sold Everywhere
21-
r
G uaranteed^^
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mas I be Stamped
on Backix.
If you want the very best
FLANNELETTE
the Old Country Produce*
HORROCKSES’
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON SELVEDGE
and dedine all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeeoers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS.
ON TNENOP!
A. superb library volume, handsomely printed
. and bound j containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Bulletin size-., Price, 21s.
Elder Man’s Lane.
“I’LL BIDE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS story, or sketch—or whatever it is
—does not really run through Elder
Man’s Lane; and yet it does. It is a
vague sketch of an Old Place back in a
Garden, and a rainy day. At least it is
written on a rainy day. An old place back
in a garden is generally vague, and sad, and
faraway-like, however near, like rain on the
Harbor hills.
Down across from my balcony window are
the mean, brown, rusting roofs of “Skull
Terrace,” and against them —and against
the light green of some willows at the lower
end of the “terrace”—the countless bright
raindrops march steadily down the tele-
graph wires, like tears on the lines of Time,
and every here and there one drops off-
just like a tear. And, down below, again,
in the hollow of Lavender Bay, are other
old places in gardens. And, on sunny morn-
ings I like to lean on some railings (and sit
on the rail of memory, so to speak], and
look down on those old places. When a
man is in the Elder Man’s Lane of Life,
and well past Middle Age Corner —say five
or six years—he often begins to take a sad
sort of comfort in looking at old places back
in gardens. They remind of what has been,
and might have been, or should have
been, and, in many ways, of the best in the
past. The age, and the philosophy that
comes with it, helps you forget that there
is just as likely to be a Family Hell in
an ® ld „ place back in a garden that the “de”
or “le” Somethings have lived in for gene-
rations as there is in the brand new and un-
speakably ugly “villa” built for the Bloggses
at Mosrnan.
But my old place back in a garden was on
a level, and well out beyond Ilidge-street
and round towards Neutral Bay. And I
never saw it, because it had been more com-
pletely wiped out of existence than if it had
been exterminated by fire, bombardment or
earthquake before I even heard of its exist-
ence.
There were two old places in Sydney like
the house of Miss Havisham in "Great Ex-
pectations. One was in Newtown, where
tne fittings ot tiie carriage would come to
pieces between your finger and thumb, in
the rotten-roofed old stable. The woman
lived and died—in her bedroom, the upper
liait or tlie door of which opened so mat
her old servant' could attend to her. I be-
lieve there was a mouldy, dusty, cobwebby
ghost ot a wedding breakfast laid out in the
uining-room, and they said her tragedy had
happened be]ore Dickens wrote Great Ex-
pectations. The other house was in Darling-
liurst. Two sisters lived there, they said,
much alike. Tlie front was shut up, and
the windows battened. They got their neces-
saries through a wicket in the back wall, or
gate. They were never seen by outsiders
until one died. They said that she was the
one that had the money—or got the pension
. that she was buried under the name
ot the other. The other died a long year
later. The baker found his loaves dried
hard, or mouldy, in the box, and the police
broke in and found her—like the bread.
But it was my esteemed acquaintance,
Benno, dealer in dead marines, who first
told me about the old house round towards
Neutral Bay—during an unduly prolonged
voyage from Blue’s Point to Dawes Point
on the Ilors’n’cart Ferry. The subject came
up over an article in that morning’s paper
about another old house—probably the pro-
posed demolition of the Bangers over there
with its famous picture on the wall—that
someone was reading.
"There use ter be a ole place back in a
garden round there above Bidge-street tords
Neutral, Benno told me, “but I haven’t seen
it for years now” (remember Benno is any-
thing from 25 to 05), and Benno described
the exact locality. “I remember it well,” he
said. “The funniest thing about it—or per-
haps it wasn’t funny—was that the back of
it was tords the street. A very old
stone wall, with broken glass in cement on
top, an a door-gate in it, ’n’ two big, old
coach-house gates at the side. They was
choked with dirt and grass grown at the
bottom, and the boards was dry rotted ’n’
vvorn off a bit along the top. I reckoned
they was hardwood. You could see the loft
or the coachhouse above, and a rotting. bar-
ricaded-up door in the gable end. Blimy!
i never, could find tne front of that house.
1 raps it was on the rocks, with steps run-
ning down to the water, ’n’ you could only
get to it by water—or, maybe, on a bit of
old, lorst road. There’s bits of old, lorst
roads at the back of them streets, an’ along
the rocks on the shore. I’ve dropped on one
or two of them. (Didyer ever write about
lorst roads: You might apply it to human
natuie you seem to nave lost yours more
than once.) But I did catch a glimpse of
the back o< tlie house from streets higher up
on the hill, once or twice before I saw it
close. You know the sort I mean —stone
verandah at back, with rooms in the end,
an long, high roof with gable windows—-the
sort that seems to turn its back on advancin’
civilisation n’ mordern progress, ’n’ all that
sort of thing—and bury its elbows, so to
speak, m garden greenery an’ trees run
wild an look—yer can’t tell what its
lookin at. The Blinded Parst, perhaps.
“They said there was two old maids
living in the house, but they never showed
themselves (it’s always that way) The
things were taken in at the gate an’ the
bills paid bv a dried-up old woman, an’ er
little, withered ole cove, sometimes- an’
sometimes a rusty old codger went in.’ that
might have been the old lawver or doctor
Just like one of them faked up English
novels. ® u
“So at last.” Benno went on. “I ma de up
my mind to have a shot at that gate, in the
wav of business, and investigate—’n’ se e if
there was anything cronk about th e place
like a respectable citizen ought. You seei
went in more for old iron, an’ lead, an’ brass,
an’ what-not, in those days, and often picked
up bargains at them sorter places for
nothing. I picked up a little, old har-
monium once, an’ the Old ’Un tinkered it
up and scared all the neighbors’ cats an’
dogs out of their wits with it; an’ nearly
drove the neighbors mad, too—till it busted
up for good. Our cat left, too. You see
the Old Un thought he could play. I never
like to interfere with the ambitions of old
people—Blimy! it’s cruel sad, I think.
“Well—so one day I pulls up outside that
gate an nulls the old bell. In a Hash, it
seemed to me, a trap-door in that gate was
snatched open, and I saw a woman’s face; ’n’
I backed a bit. It was of the handsome
kind of oldish face, but the color had faded
—V seemed to have run a bit, too, under-
neath—yer might know what I mean. A
squarish face with one of them longish chins
that come out, but with fine lines—one of
them chins that are chins. And she had
those blind-like grey eyes; they glared at
me as if I was a ghost from the past, but
she wasn’t frightened. Of course I didn’t
notice all this in a flash, but thought some
of it afterwards. (The sort of chin gnd
eyes that take your attention away from
everything else.)
“ ‘Who are you?’ she said after a minute,
and what do you want?’
“1 told her.
“ ‘What’s your name?’ she said.
"I told her that, too.
“Presently she opened the gate, in a dazed
sort of way, and looked at me.
“‘ls that your name?’ she said, ’n’ I told
her aghin it was.
“‘Well, she said, sharp-like, ‘you’d bet-
ter come in. I can’t stand talking here in
the full glare of the street.’ And so she
stood aside to let me pass, and I walks in
an’ she shuts the gate agen. She stood
with her hand on the bolt, looking at me
sideways ; as if I was something in a shop
that might suit her—say somethin’ in the
furniture or hardware line.
“She was tallish and broad in the shoul-
ders and hips, an’ she stood like —like—
well, something said ‘old opera singer !’ to
me, sudden-like. You see I judge people I
don’t know, by instinct like, from someone
I did —that they remind me strongly of.
Not so old, neither, but old like a woman
of her sort of 30 or so might be, that’s been
worn by trouble —or champagne—or some
sort of divilment.
“ ‘lt’s all right,’ she said presently, ‘you
reminded me at first of someone I knew.
Now, what do you want?’ she said, and I
saw her hand slowly shoot the bolt! ‘lt’s
grand opera now. all right!’ I thought—’an’
in a bloomin’ ole garden, too,’ Only the
garden wasn’t bloomin’ —just a Wild tangle
of briary stuff along the walls, an an ole fig
—’n’ ole fruit trees runnin’ up the sides, an’
a hint of firs in front. The big stone-
flagged back verandah was one of those that
migliter done for the front, with round pil-
lars with mouldin’s top ’n bottom. Columns
I think you call ’em.
“So I tole her again what I wanted. ‘l’m
dealin in bottles, mum,’ I said, standing with
me ole hat in one hand, and the chaff-bag in
the other.
“She give a short laugh, more like a
cough, without smiling, right in my face.
‘Do 1 look like a woman that has bottles to
sell?’ she said.
“I begged her pardon, mum, an’ said I
was after any old iron, or lead, or brass, or
broken furniture that was thrown aside.
Just then another woman came on the veran-
dah and give me a bran’ new start. She was
something like the other, but smaller, and
withered, ’n’ twenty years older, ’n’ bent —•
and, oh! but her face was hard; and she was
hugging herself in a shawl. I thought she
might be the other one’s sister.
“ ‘Why Ellen!’ she squealed, ‘Whatever
are you doing there? And who’s that;
“ ‘Never mind, Emma,’ says my woman.
‘lt’s only a dustman. Old Betty is doubled
up with her rheumatism again, and Bob’s
out, so I answered the gate. You go inside,
Emma, or you’ll catch cold.’ An’ the other
went inside. Then the Emma one turned
to me agen an’ pointed to a boxed-in place
in the end of the stable. (The stable was
very high to the lofts, with great beams, an’
a stone wall at the back.) ‘Go in there’ she
said, ‘an’ see if there’s anything you want.’
“Blimy! but it was a find. There was
all sorts of odds and ends when I shifted the
curtain of cobwebs an’ dust. There was
chairs that must have had the toothache for
twenty years, an’ lookin’ glasses with only
their shoulders out, an’ broken washstands
—you know, all sorts of things you’d find in
a place like that. An’ they was all good, an’
bm of their sort. There was boxes of nails
an’ old chisels, an’ screws, an’ gimlets, an’
screwdrivers, and brass hooks an’ things.
That was a find for my Old Un! It was a
load, an’ I had a good turn out then, an’ I
was empty, fir it was out at the end of my
beat.
“It got darker of a sudden and I noticed
there was a winder for the first time. I
hadn’t seen it before because of the cobweb
curtains and dust ‘frosting.’ She was stand-
ing in the doorway, and filled it, and, blimy!
She give me another jump. ‘Don’t go poking
round,’ she said. ‘Clear it all out if you
want it.’
“Blimy! I took her at her word ! There
was a heavy, shallow, hardwood box in the
road, lined with thick lead—an’ old sink of
some kind—an’ I dragged that out first, ’n’
then some brass rods, an’ the ironwork of a
bed, for the bottom of the cart. There was
any quantity of bottles stacked in a corner.
There was an old underground cistern in the
yard, with the brickwork about two foot
above the surface and covered with hard-
wood, worn an’ black with age, ’n’ a old
pump in the middle that might a done for
Uord Nelson’s Victory, an’ she sat herself
down on the edge of this. She sat wide, this
woman, with her elbows on her knees an’ her
chin on her palms, and seemed to watch me,
in a way, carrying the things out.
“There was two ole. tall, oblong, shnllcr
clocks on a dusty shelf in the corner: one
hwl the works in, an’ a picture of Edin-
burgh, or some place, on the glass door, but
'he other was empty an’ had no glass—but
T found the works on the end of the shelf.
r, 'hey’d have stooped for the cobwebs ennyhow.
They was twins—and old uns at that. I
thought they’d be just the thing for my Old
Un to tinker with.- Blimy!
(Continued on next page.)


à
å
Require Prompt Dressing with ZAM-BUK
INSEPARABLE from the rough, tearing work of the work-
shop, railroad, farm or cattle station are those every-
day cuts and bruises which may be neglected once too
often. Zam-Buk has brought to the worker new possibilities
in “first aid.” Clean the skin round the wound or cut, and
promptly dress the injury with Zam-Buk. Zam-Buk does
more than allay pain and inflammation; it prevents fester-
ing and blood-poisoning, and heals up your hurt quickly and
perfectly. Zam-Buk is wholesome, and contains none of the
rancid animal fats that make old-fashioned ointments so
risky and useless. When you cut or scratch yourself the
best thing to do is to apply Zam-Buk, the powerful anti-
septic and healer.
GUT HIS HAM WHILE SAWING.
Painful, Inflamed, Festering Wound Healed.
“While sawing, my husband inflicted a nasty wound in
his left hand w r ith the saw,” says Mrs. F. Reid, of Fleet
Street, Devonport, N.Z. “The wound inflamed and festered
up, and stubbornly refused to heal, notwithstanding the
various remedies and treatments we tried.
“At length we happened across Zam-Buk, and
were so encouraged with the marvellous benefits
derived from the first applications that we continued
to apply this excellent balm. Zam-Buk drew all the
bad matter out of the sore, allayed all inflammation,
finally healing up the place with clean, healthy skin.”
Every Worker Needs ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is a perfect remedy for eczema, ringworm,
ulcers, bad leg, blood poisoning, scalp disease, running
sores, festering wounds, sore feet, piles, scalp disease, rash,
and quickly heals cuts, burns, scalds, sprains, bruises,
scratches, and similar skin injuries. Zam-Buk is sold by
all stores and chemists at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
5 ' \
1
5
V l
TO
Bu
RUB
IT
IN”
Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly.. What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
IMKr
m K^ym
5
£
*
When you lack energy, have no interest
in life, feel dull and stupid, all you need is
a dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
will make you feel like a new man and
give you an appetite like a bear. They
will do you more good than a five shilling
bottle of tonic.
“ ‘D’ yer want them clocks?’ I said to
her, more for the sake of something to say.
“ ‘What clocks?’ she said.
“I showed her one, and she give a sort of
jerk an’ looked at it curiously.
“ ‘I told you to take everything,’ she said.
‘But what do you want them for? They’ll
never go again.’ She said that as if she
was remembering the time when they did go.
“So I told her about the Old Un. and I
said that he'd make ’em go; but I didn’t
know about keepin’ time. But she didn’t
seem to be listening, so I carried them out.
She never moved from her position on the
tank top.
“When I come in agen she was singing
to herself, ‘The Irish Emigrant.’ I heard
some of it: —
And the red was in your cheek, Mary,
An’ the love light in your eye.
“She sung it bitter-like, nasty-like—l didn’t
like it at all. Especially as she got up
sudden, with that laugh and stage fling
of hers. ‘Wait a minute,’ she said, and she
went in, an’ presently she comes out with a
big cup o’ tea (breakfast cups I think they
call ’em) an’ a plate of bread and butter
on a tray ; an’ she set it down on the top of
the tank. ‘There you are,’ she said. ‘I
know you don’t drink.’
“Now how did she know that.
“ ‘l’ll keep an eye to your horse,’ she
said; an’ went ’n’ set the gate a little ajar.
“Well, that woman mesmerised me. I
know how to handle cups and saucers, an’
bread an’ butter in company, without bother-
in' about it; but how I know I never could
tell —an’ she watched me all the time. I
told her all about the Old Un—and the Lord
knows what else beside —without her seemin’
to ask me. But she did ask me if I had
an uncle (how’d she know I didn’t have
ten?). So I told her all I knew about
Uncle Alf, that was a lot younger than the
Old Un. He went away through the dig-
gings to West Australia an’ South Africa,
an’ the Lord knows where, an’ dropped
clear out o’ sight.
“Every now an’ agen she’d go to the gate
an’ stand with her hand on the stonework,
looking out. Just like some bloomin’ scene
on the stage. At last she said, sudden,
‘You’ll be more like your uncle than your
father!’
“ ‘Now, howin’ell did she know that?
’n’ why did she say it?’ (Uncle Alf had been
educated, though, so he wasn’t like me in
that.)
“We both seemed to know when it was
time to part, so I got up, an’ she opened the
gate.
“‘Now, what about the price?’ I asked
her.
“ ‘What price?’ she said.
“ ‘For the things, mum,’ I said. ‘I want
to pay yer. I’m a dealer.’
“She laughed that laugh of hers agen.
‘Never mind that,’ she said. ‘I was paid
long ago—’n’ paid the price too. Here, take
this for your Old Un to treat himself with.’
An’ she shoves a sovereign inter me hand.
‘Now go,’ she said. ‘Good-bye! Don’t come
again.’ An’ she shoves me out and shuts
the gate, and I stood staring at the blind
side of it. Then there was a big policeman
at my elbow, like they happen. ‘What doin?’
he said, an’ I told him. ‘Well, I’m blowed!’
he said. ‘You’re the first one I saw go in
there. Did ye see her?’ I said I did, an’
he lifted his helmet ’n’ scratched his head
’n’ said he was blowed agen, an’ marched off
slow.
“I stared at that gate again. There’d
been a slanting shower in the morning, and
wetted it, an’ then the sun had brought some
black lettering out plainer, I suppose, on the
damp wood in the perished grey paint. It
was the name of the house, ‘l’ll Bide.’
“ ‘l’ll Wait,’ yer know—like some old song
that used to run: ‘l’ll bide; I’ll bide my
time.’ But perhaps she only meant she’d
wait —without any revenge in it.
“But,” concluded Benno reflectively,
“howin’ell did she know that the Old Un
took his drop of shicker?”
* * * *
That was Benno’s storv. This is mine.
Benno’s Old Place Back in a Garden
haunted me in spare moments; so, one sad
but sunny afternoon in early winter, and
during a sober period, I (John Lawrence)
took a run out that way. On the ferry I
sat beside a man I took to be an old digger—
and successful at that; and we got into con-
versation. He’d been in Westralia, after
Coolgardie, where I had been —also Papua,
South Africa, Klondyke and South America.
Presently I could see he’d had a few and
wanted somebody to talk to. He was burst-
ing with health and philanthropy and life
and good nature and success and love for
dear old Australia, and champagne last
night, and nips this morning. And he’d
just got back after many years and was
staying at the Metropole.
There was something about him that re-
minded me of someone long ago—or lately,
if you understand; but, when he lifted his
hat to rub his head in growing enthusiasm,
I saw what my memory was striving at. His
eyes were grey with haunting memories
hiding, and a hint of a glint in them; and
his hair, iron grey, stood up round the
front like a well-made brush. Greying hair
makes little change in such faces. It was
Benno, taller and older—or Benno’s roving
Uncle Alf. And Benno’s manner began to
come out strongly. But still there was
something that reminded me of someone,
long ago and lately, who was not like Benno.
And now, I know, it was myself. Not a
physical double —that would be abhorrent to
me: I’d hate him. And a double all round!
He’d give me the horrors; he’d be the
horrors himself. But this was different—a
sort of soul or life double.
“And now I’m going over to look up some
dear old friends of mine on the Shore, that
I haven’t heard of for years,” said the
digger. “Fifteen years—fifteen year”— his
voice seemed to lose a little of its confidence.
“Maybe her letter went wrong at last—or
mebbe mine,” he went on, as to himself.
“Putting off writing; putting off writing.
Waiting for good or better news to send.
New friends —and —newer friends—and so
the years go Putting off writing! Never
you do that, young man!” He spoke to me
then as if I were a young man. It takes us
a long while to forget we’re not —the years
steal by so carefully, no matter how careless
or reckless we are. “You’re quite a young
man yet!” they say.
“Do you know where to find your friends,”
I asked.
We’d landed and got on the same tram
(and I hadn’t thought that strange), and
were passing ltidge-street.
“Know where to find them!” he said,
rather loudly, “Sure —of course I do. They
weren’t of the shifting sort. And my
friend —well she was a woman who could
wait.” He added this in a lower tone.
A few stopping places further on I pre-
pared to get out, where Benno had told me
—near the place where I’d find that old
house back in a garden.
“Well, so long!” I said. “I get out hero.
I hope you’ll find your friends all right,”
and I held out my hand. But he got up.
“I get out here too,” he said. “The lane I
want is somewhere about here.”
He stood on the kerb looking round in a
dazed way.
“I know it’s somewhere abofit here,” he
said. “By the park back there* —but the
place is changed. God! how it is changed.
I don’t know any of these new streets.”
Then his eyes lighted. “I’m on the right
track, anyhow,” he said. “There’s that little
old pub. / remember it.” There was a
little old stone inn with a figtree up the
road on the other side.
“What sort of a place are you looking
for?” I asked.
“I’m looking,” he said, “for an old place
back in a garden.”
I caught my tongue in time.
“Come on,” he said, “and have a nip
before we part. I want one.” He did, by
the look of him. And I wanted one too, on
general principles.
The landlord was one of those little, fat,
round-headed, grey, old boys. “Shall we ask
him?” I asked my digger acquaintance, after
nips. “No!” he said hurriedly. “Come
along! I knew him,” he said, when we got
outside. “But he didn’t recognise me.”
“I’ll see you to the gate,” I said. He
made no objection, and we went on. Up on
the other side of the street was an elbow of
new, mean, two-storeyed brick corner shops,
with an allotment alongside and a couple of
prematurely aged cottages going up.
“It will be somewhere round above those
shops,” he said. We went round and down.
He said there ought to be a lane along
above the rocks down there, but there wasn’t
—only a new, broad sandstone street with a
little gully filled in, and a retaining wall on
the water frontage ; and a row of new brick
double cottages facing it along the back of
the shops’ allotment. And between them
and the shop frontage nothing but bare
ground, and a builder’s litter, a rough iron
contractor’s shed, some cement barrels, and
the stumps of one or two big old ornamental
trees. And the choking breath and lip-
cracking taste of new lime.
“What tricks our memory does play us !”
said the digger. “I never had the bump of
locality, anyhow. Get lost if I went down a
gully. It must be up round the next damned
new block.”
“We’ll ask at the shops first,” I said.
There was a grocer’s shop and a green-
grocer’s, of course —and, of course a mill-
inery. The milliner was a young, married
Juno (and I wondered how she made ends
meet in that locality). I asked her first,
because of her appearance, and we saw her
first at the door —calling a kid. But she
never heard of any old place back in a gar-
den ; she’d only come there lately. So we
went on up the street.
I caught a boy. He took us across the
road to get a full view. “Do yer see them
there noo shops ’n’ cottages on them allot-
ments there?” he said.
We did.
“Well, then, on that piece er land where
them buildin’s stand there was a old place
back in a garden. It was pulled down last
year ’n’ carted away, ’n’ the big ole fig tree’s
cut down ’n’ carted away too—’n’ the land
cut up inter allotments. There was two ole
maids,” he shrilled, “lived there alone for
hever so long. Disserpointment in love,
they said. They called their house ‘l’ll
Bide,’ so they muster been ratty. One
died years ergo, the oldest, Mother says; en
after a year of it alone the other come out of
her hole en went to the dorgs—shickered, or
drownded or poisoned herself, I don’t know
which. The d’s came to a harnt of mine to
help ’dentify her” —
“Clear out!” I said, and I threw the
young devil a shilling. I turned to my
digger acquaintance, and his face wa« dead.
I took him by the arm and steered him to-
wards the tramway stopping place. He
came to life a little. “Wait here for the
trams,” he said, reading it on the post.
“Wait here for the trams.”
“I’ll see you into one,” I said.
“No,” he said. “Leave me—l want to
think. Thank you! Good-bye!”
But I watched him from a little further
up and saw him making over for the pub.
Myself again!
I went on a mile or two farther out. feel-
ing like one who had left himself behind in
a way, to look up another but a much
smaller old place back in a garden, where
someone once dear to me had been born; but
had not died ; and on my Avay back I called
in at that little Figtree Inn again.
My digger was there, drinking and shout-
ing for all hands. (“A hangel dropped out
of a hairio-plane,” said one of the bummers
to me.) The digger was telling wild stories
of Klondyke, and Johannesburg, and Papua,
and South America. He’d renewed ac-
quaintance with the landlord. He grabbed
me and made me drink. I got him aside.
“Best come across home,” I Said.
“I’ve got no home —I’m home!” he said.
“I’ll send for my luggage in the morning.
I’m staying here, and —and, damn you all!
I’ll bide!”
I got him into the parlor and he called in
more drinks there.
“It’s no use,” he said, in a quietened tone,
but with drunken obstinacy. “I must stay.
It was a lie. She was'tt’t one of the sort to
go to the dogs. She wasn’t one of the
drowning or poisoping sort. She’ll wait,
I told you. She’s about here somewhere —
she’ll come back! I’m going to buy that
ground and pull down those (hie!) blasted
shops, and—and (hie!) build again. I’ll
Bide!”
HENRY LAWSON.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
■; Y*vmp***r^r
* 8? " fLu# -v *** l i '4&■*.->■. ','yrft
i'l -- 1 v '"s’* I aifFV*
'' fiS ; 1
t
f -*i. * * 1 a&weft
m ■ ’ ■■■ % <
. ■ • waili;
IHpl
VSM
SigSijli ~\v .:■
* ] ’«I . I m '
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Silent in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
■*
Queensland Agents—Holmes & Church, Brisbane.
New Zealand Agents—Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N.S. WALES.
Have You Considered
BOLINDER RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw.
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
A -'' w M
H
Mm
vy
Kl
. 1
RBi:
The AustraS Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
,
Brisbane: CORDON FAIN! LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
Metz-“22,” £l9O
The Simple Gar for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over N.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the METZ. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, 10£in. clearance, 45m. p. hour,
33m. p. gallon.
Brown 8 Hellicar Ltd.,
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
The British-]
"Waver ley,
uilt
From £350
Ne
to £375
60LDF1ELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St.. South Melbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction WeK-Boring Machine
MOVES WITHOUT HORSES
RUIVfELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
in its new shape and style has proved extremely popular.
Australia’s National Magazine contains special and original features
in every issue. You cannot afford to miss a single number. Why not
subscribe? Post free throughout Australia, 6/-; Foreign, 9/-
•7
X
rf
ST.
DON’T WAIT
; . , ' ’•' / • 'j ' ; - ;• . I • . > '
FOR INDIGESTION
TAKE
BEECHAM'S PILLS
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McWILLIAM, Manager.
•PHONE—City 7091.
Sawmillers, Joiners and
Cabinet Makers
If You require
SAWMILL AND WOODWORKING
MACHINES, communicate direct with
the MANUFACTURERS.
We caa give you expert advice. The Manufac-
turer*’ prices will suit you. Cash or easy terms.
Catalogue and all information free. We carry
the largest stock of Woodworking Machines in
Australasia. Call at our stand at the forthcom-
ing Royal Easter Show.
RIRCHNER (SL CO.
32 Market Street, Sydney.
VARIETY WOOD WORKER,
All folk who know
what is good when they
taste, should at once taste
Bird's
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Its delicious flavor and creamy
richness are simply a revelation!
Sold In Pkts., Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY—It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.—A Recipe Book seat, oa receipt of address, by
W. C Douglass, 53. Liverpool Street, Sydney.
CI3SS.W.


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Tire-Proof,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS* USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per minute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
lOcwt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System. MODERATE PRICES,
OF AUSTRALIA Ltd*..
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE: G 1 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul &. Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
FRICTION
CLUTCHES THAT
CLUTCH
THE “WATERLOO”
GUARANTEED BY
PATENTEES and MAKERS
Sydney Machine Co.
BOTANY ROAD, WATERLOO,
N*w South Wales.
TH
mbSEhl
JT._
m
s>
re
m
DALCETY&C9LTD
AGEBTS.
*JSW
Union” Harvester.
mm
Clayton & Shuttleworth
Portable Steam Engine,
Tangye Kerosene OH Engine.
DALCETY $ COMPANY LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and all Branches.
A
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON & S BUTTLE WORTHs Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
For Modern Wood-Working Machinery.
IN STOCK—J. A. FAY & EOAN CO.’s
Planers, Matchers, Molders & Surfacers, Band Saws, Saw Benches,
Swing Cut-off Saws, Hand Planers & Jointers—Latest Improved
Types by this well-known Firm.
“American” Steel Split Pulleys, Cleveland Twist Drills, and All
Requisites for the Sawmiller, Woodworker, Carpenter & Joiner.
Catalogues and Prices on Application.
H. P. GREGORY <&. CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY.
.
ADTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT, THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS, i
307-311 Rent Street, Sydney;
and
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
'islfeti
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
DANCAR GEDYE & C 2
SYDNEY.
57>e BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
E6e CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
©6e AUSTRALIAN - MADE ENGINE.
Irk Other Words —
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
THE “GUTHRIDG”
Garbage Destructor.
SMOKELESS EFFICIENT SIMPLE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Health Department and the N.S.W. Education Department.
INVALUABLE FOR PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS. NUMEROUS TESTIMONIALS.
, Manufactured by
m
V !
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE
"M%
tSAB
mmst
asaa
