

DEWAR’S MELLOWED BY AGE.
R. Car. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants) 107 Kent Street, Sydney*
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5-W- MONT DE PIETE D SI C? L T -B
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY 74.
Opposite National Amphitheatre. And at Telephone: No. 225 Central.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
m
I! ! "1
O
>3
!BIS
lai
ail
114111
E'
3
HOBART.
UK
(jadleys Orient [jote!
RICHARDSON’S
- - :
WINE and
SPIRIT STORES,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
BOTTLE, CASE or GALLON at Wholesale Price.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guarantors
'
C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
v
cbv
Hu It oW&
HamdA Bacon
‘■kVue,” Me, ■#&*£>'s
CHUBB’S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
nutritious and invigorating for the
organs.
Junket
HANSENS
cb
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
> : . >: jT;
:■
Ni
are specially constructed to ensure Long Service.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COy
SYDNEY—MELBOURNE—NEWCASILE
MflpO®
vcb
BECK’S LAGER BEER
White
m
A
s)
are good roofs. They are absolutely watertight, and they wear well—they do
not crack, chip nor rust. But they have another good point—they are artistic,
attractive; they add to the appearance of the houses they’re put on; the Mal-
thoid lends itself to artistic treatment. You know what White Malthoid is,
of course? It’s Malthoid (the tried and true), with a skin of asbestos. Bet’s
send you samples, and a booklet illustrating and describing several White
Malthoid Bungalows!
vcb
D. S. EVANS,
Australasian
Manager,
Challis House, Sydney.
Roofs
*
/»«
-e-f N
«A«
• **
<c^
«? .
_4
£k
ntirjs
Pf^W
to.*--
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY
CLYDE WORKS
k GRANVILLE A
B kN^VvJ
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural %
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
“QUEEN
OF STATES”
BACON and HAMS
QUEENSLAND CO-OP. BACON CO., LTD., BRISBANE.
HELIDON SPA
“ It is a dream of the Physician realised,” so says a medical man
of Helidon Spa. HELICON SPA is Nature’s Eliminant.
STARKEYS LTD , } Agents,
Redfern
The Bulletin
Tot 35 No. 1780.]
[Thursday, March 26, 1914.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS
At George Robertson 8 Co., Prop’t’y Ltd.,
21% Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Teed Ahpa”: by Jungle Track and Paddy Field
Xllus.y 5/* (3d.).
Bailey’s Strowger Automatic Exchange. 2/6 (2d 1
Lodge (Sir Oliver) : Continuity. 1/3 (2d )
International Whitaker, 1914. 3/- (3d.). '
Who’s Who in the Theatre, 1914 9/- (5d.).
Chapman: Australian Fossils. Ulus. 7/6 (2d )
Watson: Later Litanies. 2/6 (Id.). '
Trine: New Alinement of Life. 4/6 (3d )
Pugh: At the Back of the World. 3/6 (3d.).
(Postages shown in parenthesis.)
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
FOR COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
vJu
OH
a f&2
=3S
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. If is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character of Hudson's
Eumenthel Jujubes.
Tins 1/6. SOLI) EVERYWHERE, Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
Endorsed by the Medical World, viz.:—“The Lancet,” “The Practitioner,” “Australasian
Medical Gazette,” etc. [3
The Red Page
Verses by K.M.H.S.
INARTICULATE.
There is no greater human agony
Than when a moving mouth is filled, with
words
It cannot voice into reality.
It is as though a group of fluttered birds
Were prisoned in a chasm of the wind
mi >e unseen agencies from flight
1 hrough the unbarriered air, or when men
find
day-desires in fleeting dreams at night.
™ W rne some quick, chaotic thing
Which seeks creative fingers and a form:
But I am all unmanned and weak to bring
A calm hand to the spiritual storm,
Who might have been a beaten rock that
wrought
A sea of passion into foam of thought.
THE QUEST.
/ heard a moaning low and sweet,
I thought it was the winter wind,
I saw the trace of golden feet
That sought a way they could not find:
I walked into a frozen grove
Of lilies torn and broken grass,
And still I saw the steps that strove
-/ o path where silent ages pass.
Where frost was thick before a grot
I found my god with parted lips;
I put my mouth against his throat,
And leaned my hands against his hips.
on f S^ us we staved und neither stirred,
And I forgot my own weak greed
Of solace. Yet I found no word
1 o cheer the weary god in need.
And generations in the mist
Were reaching madly with their hands
In supplication, for they wist
Of whispered fears and shadowy bands.
But he sat listening to their prayers
With tired eyes, unweepingly,
In envy of their silver tears
And days' end in mortality.
BAGATELLE.
I plucked a rush beside a lake,
I waved it till it bent and brake—
The feeble hand must still unmake.
I plucked a dew-fed lily rare,
I gave, it to my love to wear:
It stained the fragrance of her hair.
I chose a maid among the throng,
But youth cannot endure for long,
And age is slow, and love —a song.
I sank beneath a weight of grief
And looked in vain for some relief —
Death holds a burden not so brief.
From “Verses,” by K.M.H.S. (Holywell
Press, Oxford).
J*
When a poet remarks: —
My God, listen to me.
I do not fear you, like the multitude of the
sons of men;
How can I fear you, I who have grasped you
by the great beard,
Hissed, you with a kiss of fire on the lips,
Folded you, the ample, within my arms?
he is sufficiently young not to mind making
himself ridiculous. In drawing this picture
of the Lord as a portly, whiskered old gent,
K.M.H.S., the author of Verses (Holywell
Press, Oxford) is merely Whitmanesquely
youthful. These antics do not hurt. And
when he tells us in confidence that: —
A large inexplicable sorrow laps about my
entrails like a tideless lagoon
this is merely the pain in his metrical Little
Mary that comes of having eaten of the
unripe apples of the Hesperides. K.M.H.S.
m sufficiently young to do these things, and
sufficiently in earnest to make us overlook
them. Poets will be poets; and in the first
poem above quoted the author shows that
he can be a poet if he really wants to be one.
The Woman Sings,” too long to quote, is an
achievement that lacks only form. The
vigor is already there, untrammelled. He
J® too, quite youthfully audacious, as in
Dilemma,” where Swinbourne echoes, not
too shrilly. He is intoxicated with the
alliteratidn of words, and can string them
together without meaning like this:—
Unwilling I have made you fast
To that from which you fain would flee,
And in the portico of night
From, pillar to pillar there flashes a light,
A light that flashes fitfully
And crosses the gloom of the portalled past.
All defects inherent in youth, but K.H.M.S.
evidences merits that more than compensate.
There is an ecstasy in his verse; he can
evoke an image and make fine music. This
Song of Solomon may be regarded as
promise, not performance—but the promise
is assuredly there.
•
Fifty Caricatures by Max Beerbohm
(Heinemann, 65.), as will be seen from the
reproductions herewith, are sheer delight.
Beerbohm’s only rival in England is Will
Dyson.
It is now possible to obtain the complete
works of Tonnyson, with all the notes by the
author and the memoir by Hallam Tennyson
(Macmillan), in one volume for 10s. 6d.
Nevertheless, the “complete works” of any
poet work out but a few ounces of inspira-
tion to the ton.
Thomas Bird Mosher, of Portland, Maine, is the
only publisher known to us whose catalogue of publi-
cations is itself -literature. His latest announcement
is a charmingly printed pamphlet of books in
belles-lettres issued in choice and limited editions,
interspersed with apt and intriguing quotations in
prose and verse.
Fiction
Reginald Wright Kauffmann, author of
Daughters of Ishmael, is one of the United
States authors who treat sex subjects neither
sensationally nor sentimentally. His work is
always sincere, and his subject matter seri-
ous. In Running Sands (Bell, per Dymock’s
Library) he preaches a sermon on the wrong
done when rich men of 50 marry poor
maidens of 18, no matter how much they
love each other—at first. In this story the
rich husband is a decent fellow, who has
kept his youth by straight living ; but the
wife wants more—she wants youth. As in-
variably happens, at least in books, when a
young wife wants youth, the youth appears.
So far, Kauffmann has kept to the universal;
but here he introduces a needless complica-
tion that narrows the application of his
moral. The decent husband, when he recog-
nises the unconscious wrong he has done his
wife, offers to let her divorce him and marry
the young Austrian officer who loves her.
But that individual is prevented by his re-
ligion from acknowledging the validity of
divorce. Then the husband determines to
Duties and Diversions of this Sweeter,
Simpler Reign. King George inspecting an
Infant School.
commit suicide to leave the way open for the
lovers to marry. It sounds melodramatic.
It isn’t. Nor is the sequel. For the hus-
band is afraid to throw himself over the
convenient cliff; he has too great a physical
fear of death. So we are left with the hus-
band and wife compelled to remain together
—a piece of special pleading, since it is cer-
tain that soon another youth will come along
with no scruples about divorce. The novel
is interesting and un-Americanly frank.
It is doubtful whether Frank Hands,
freat critic as he is, is a novelist. Great
>ays (Lane) is a rattling fine story, one
would say for boys, were it not for its
realism ; but it somehow does not convince
as a piece of life. The scene is set in the
time of Napoleon, and his young hero is a
successful smuggler. There is a splendid
open-airness about this story: the hero has
great adventures, and the savor of the sea is
on every page. . Napoleon and Fox appear,
presentable portraits. And there are pic-
tures of the French Revolution that are
brilliantly etched. Yet Harris never seems
to get much below the surface of the hero’s
personality; and the book is a loose narra-
tive rather than a piece of art. It is the
critic writing, not the artist. . His books
on Shakespeare remain Frank Harris’s finest
achievement.
J*
. Upton Sinclair again—this time his topic
is syphilis. Sylvia (Winston, U.S.A., per
Sydney Book Club) is the story of a charm-
ing American girl of the South, carefully'
educated by her aristocratic family in all
the strategy of capturing and managing men;
but kept ignorant of the more important
facts of sex. She is a “pure” girl, and of
course cannot know, and certainly cannot
discuss, these facts. The story of her tri-
umphs in flirtation is delightfully told,
though even here the fictional worship of
the American girl disgusts the Australian
reader. _ This fetich of the divinity of the
maiden is the most characteristic article of
belief in the modern American popular novel-
ist. One wonders if the American ppvelist
has ever met the American girl. Sylvia
makes a triumphant descent upon Harvard,
and there meets all the snobbery and pluto-
cracy of the modern American university.
Sinclair’s description of the luxury of the
life led by the millionaire students is strange
reading for Australians.
She is loved by a poor youth, whose father
had done time”—it is hinted to shield a
weaker brother. But when she learns that
her fiance had got into a row in a brothel,
she, being a “pure” girl, has no choice but to
break with him. She does not even allow
him to give her the innocent explanation of
his presence in the brothel. There is but
one thing “a proud woman” can do, and that
is to send back his letter unopened. Then
she becomes engaged to “Royalty”—this
brand of person being in America a multi-
millionaire who is a leader of the New
York snobbocracy. “You will perhaps find
yourself impatient with the girl at this stage
of her story,” Sinclair remarks. We agree.
“She could not conceive that it was possible
for a pure-minded girl to talk about such a
subject with any human being, man or
woman.” Man, perhaps, but woman? So
she marries her multi-millionaire, with the
result, discreetly half-hinted, of becoming in-
fected with syphilis and of leaving behind
her a blind child. The moral is independent
of the story. One does not see just why
her husband, and not the man she loved,
should have syphilis, unless Sinclair holds
that all millionaires are affected and all poor
men free.
M.L. a Decade Ago.
Had Democracy in New Zealand been
translated from the French immediately after
it was published, 10 years ago, the translation
would have been interesting and valuable
Now Andre Siegfried’s work (Bell) is but of
historical value; it is merely an acute criti-
cism of M.L. as it was 10 years ago. To-day
the perspective lias shifted ; and in his intro-
duction W. Downie Stewart has made this
plain. Yet ma,ny of Siegfried’s penetrating
criticisms remain as true to day as they were
a decade ago. It still remains true that the
hall-mark of the Maorilander in his disdain-
ful insularity. His country “has always lived
a life apart, obstinately shunning every form
of alliance. Only England, who does not
offend her dignity, enjoys her confidence and
entire devotion.” Many Maorilanders “are
honestly convinced that the attention of the
whole world is concentrated upon them, wait-
ing with curiosity and even with anxiety fro
see what they will say and do next The
conception of the country as a cake, which
if is to one’s interest to divide among as few
mouths as possible, seems to be almost uui-
versal.”
One chapter is headed, “Snobbishness in
M.L. Society.” “The King is more known
to them than the House of Commons, and
far from regarding the latter as more im-
portant—though they think its position a
safe one—they delight in thinking of the Eng-
lish nobility as a sort of tutelary body of
a higher order, whose disappearance should
never be required. In their eyes the halo of
member of Parliament, which was once so
brilliant, pales before that of the first lord
who comes along The Court of England!
Can we form any idea of the mysterious and
enchanting charm which these words have
for the colonials who, at the other end of the
earth, pronounce them with so much emo-
tion? The Court is in their eyes the highest
and most brilliant thing in the whole world,
and they regard the King as an almost
divine being The Maorilanders are demo-
crats without being republicans; pitiless to
the plutocracy, they have not a single word
to say against the nobility England has.
put its mark on this new country, a stubborn
mark that generations will not wipe 0ut....
England, in the eyes of the colonials, is
endowed with a halo of romance.”
But it is well to remember that all this
was written before the visit of George.
The “School Reader”
“Jay Kay,” who is prepared to furnish
awful examples, if necessary, dissects the
average “School Reader” :
The average State school is still essentially what it
was when the generation now paying (or dodging)
SIGNOE GABRIELE D'ANNUNZIO.
accounts rendered went thither unassumingly to be
harangued and spanked. Its prevalent unit is an
overcrowded room, wherein one average male or
female does battle with the recalcitrant instincts of
from 40 to 70 of the men of to-morrow. Such being
the case, the Book is still its basis. And what book ?
The “School Reader.” This commences with a pre-
face, a verbose beatitude, on the virtues of “instil-
ling” and “inculcating” whatsoever happens to fol-
low. The competent pedagogue, subject to an annual
overhaul, takes blanky good care that the same is
instilled. Good or bad, appropriate or repugnant,
he sees that this book becomes as much a part of
his class’s metal being as the Bible of Bunyan’s, or
Milton of John Bright’s. The best he does is with
extracts, often ill-selected and always ill- or un-
adapted, from tested and proven standard authors.
His worst work is based on materials supplied by
God-knows-whom. These latter anonymities are, as
a rule, leagued heart and soul with Gradgrind and
Podsnap. They cheerfully perpetrate every fault of
style short of downright ungrammaticalitv. They
are dull, prolix, laboriously didactic, circumlocutory,
wooden, all at once, or by turns. They armor their
simplest commonplaces against the child’s mind in
a garb of pretentious Latinisms.
They spread themselves on topics at once trivial
and unattractive to the mind of incipient youth. To
sum-up, they lack both the universally indispensable
gift of imagination and the peculiarly necessary one
of sympathy.
Their cardinal offence, in the eye of accredited
penmen, is this: They spoil his future market. All
this compelling of the child to assimilate unsuitable
matter renders books (which are half life) repugnant
to him when adult. All this drilling in idiom, either
bad or banal, destroys his discernment of genuine
authorship. Result: Released from his awe of the
rod and “detention.” he reverts to his own crude
and inveterate tastes for hectic rubbish. He applies
absolutely no criteria, intuitive or deliberate, to style
and, cheerful rebel, exclaims to blanky with veri-
similitude ! Moreover, now that “the pitchers” are
all the vogue, he engrosses himself in their obvious
and convincing unrealities. This problem of “kid”
literature is really that of a thinking or a vapid
A MILESTONE.
Hilda Lesswaus (to the author of her
being): “Now, then, Mister Bennett, how
much longer d'you mean to keep me and
Clay hanger standing about herei I never
heard of such goings on.”
democracy. Also, until it be solved, H. Caine, M.
Corelli and C. Garvice will continue in office as pur-
veyors of tripe to the public in general.
in conclusion, if any reader thinks this illuatured
advocate has exceeded his brief, let him assay ene
sample from the lode thus derided. The new Pacific
Reader, Book V (M.L.), is as bad as the worst, but
no worse than the majority.
•
“Chicago” hands us the vegetables:—
Coming from the country that you have a
habit of irreverently referring to as The Land
of Fried Nigger or The Land of Wooden
Ham, I have been interested in the recent
transplanting of the Rymbel. The effort
by Carolyn Wells, reprinted by you, Dec. 11,
from The Centuby, looked good to me, and
I doubted if any competitor would equal it;
but, now that 1 have read the 10 Rymbels
published Feb. 12, 1 take off my hat to Aus-
tralia. Carolyn had better head towards the
big timber; for The Bueletin’s poets have
delivered the goods, sure! They have taken
hold of this “rambling, Rymbel rot” (as one
of them neatly puts it) that was without
definite form and void, and in just over a
month they have beaten it info recognisable
shape, and furnished it with both rime and
reason. In short, they have made Carolyn’s
parent effort look like three cents. Is it
possible that writers of such snappy verse
run wild and unappreciated in Australia?
“Beltana’s” effort appealed to me and the
Rymbel headed “Strike!” and signed
“Moana,” tickled me to pieces. The latter
embalms such a cute idea, runs so smoothly,
and is so neat and obviously complete, that
I would have handed it the prize. Why does
a man who can write so well and so
easily in that form stay in Australia, when
in New York I am certain he could make over
$6OOO a year writing topical verse about
Roosevelt? If “Moana” is a girl (and he
might be), he’d probably make nearer $lO,OOO
a year in my country if he cultivated a
decent sob or two and specialised in house-
maid verse— & la Flla Wheeler Wilcox! If
you want to promote a commercial venture
that will rake in the dollars in great style,
start exporting some of your topical poets
to the States. I know it’s difficult to com-
mercialise artists and poets, they’re such a
boozy, irresponsible crew [Not in this con-
tinent sure!] ; but someone might try it. We
can do with them in my country*, and, judg-
ing by those sample Rymbels, there would be
money in it.
Simpson Newland’s “Romance of the
Australian bush,” Paving the Wap, gains
value with the years, since it presents a
faithful picture of early pioneering life and
of the customs of the aboriginals uncontami-
nated by contact with civilisation. Hence
the new fine illustrated edition (Gay and
Hancock; 10s. 6d.), with 50 photographs
and a well-spaced type, is welcome.
AND ONLY JUST THIRTEEN!
The grave misgivings of the Nineteenth
Century, and the wicked amusement of the
Eighteenth, in watching the progress (or
whatever it is) of the Twentieth.


vc
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for SILVERWARE SATISFACTION
infp"
>-IF3
No. Cx34.—D inner Cruet,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, with 4 Cut Glass Bottles, 20/-
Consult our Illustrated Price List of ELECTROPLATED WARE, CUTLERY and CLOCKS. Write
for a copy, post free on request; it places selections from the immense variety we offer at the
command of everyone in Australia.
No. 1049.—Jbintree
oblong shape, Electro
on Nickel Silver, lOin.
sign
Dishes,
Silver-plate
~ choice de-
-77/6 pair
No. Cx29.—Cut Glass But-
ter Dish and Knife, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver 8/C
No. 1047.—Entree Dishes,
Oval, Electro-plate on Nickel Sil-
ver, 10 in 57/6 pair
_ -
mm
swT'Sfrv^i
No. Cx7.—Cut Glass Jain
or Honey Jar, mounted
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel
Silver, with 5p00n.... 19/-
No. Cx9. — Teapot, Electro Silver-plate on
Britannia Metal, embossed design.... 20/-
No. Cx23. —Biscuit Box, Electro Sil
ver-plate on Britannia Metal, fern de
6ign 45/-
No. ox27.—Dinner Cruet, Elec-
tro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, 4
Crystal Glass Bottles . .. 22/-
No. Cx3o.—Sugar & Cream Stand,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver —
32/G
No. Cxl2.—Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, Chased design, 22/6
m
{?/
Britannia
Silver-plate
307-
No. CxlB. —Inkstand,
Metal, engraved design
Electro
No. Cx32.—L unch
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass.
Bottles ...... 21 / -
No. Cx2J. Inkstand, Electro Silver-plate on Britannia
Metal, engraved Glass Flower Vase 52/6
No. Cx2s. —Lunch
Cruet, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver,
with 4 Cut Glass
Bottles 14/-
No. Cx22. Cake Basket, Electro Silver-
plate on Nickel Silver, embossed design 30/-
&
m
m.
No. Cxls. Waiter, Electro Silver Plate on
Nickel Silver, engraved design, length, 14in.—
32/6
No. 1029.—Afternoon Tea Spoons and Tongs, Electro
Silver-plate, in Silk and Plush-lined Case 15/“
Various Other Designs from 8/- to 19/-
Postage must
be added to
the prices
quoted.
No. Cxll. —Flower Stand, Electro
plate on Nickel Silver, pretty design..
Silver-
-40/-
Price List of
Electroplate
post free on
request.
No. 1034.—Afternoon Tea or Cake Forks,
Electro Silver-plate on Nickel Silver, half-dozen, in
Silk and Plush lined Case, with Ivory Handles 17/0
Without Case, half-dozen 12/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


CM,
WINCHESTER
Win 'ches-ter rifle, or Win
ches-ter, n (win'ches-ter),
[After Oliver P. Winchester (. 1810-
80). Amer. manufacturer. | A breech-
loading- rifle with a tubular magazine
under the barrel holding five or more cart-
ridges inserted one by one from the rear, the
bolt being worked back and forth by a lever be-
neath. It ** * was introduced about 1866, and is in
world-wide use especially as a sporting arm.— (Webster’s
New International Dictionary.)
WEBSTER’S SAYS
■ WINCHESTER
Repeating Rifles Are “In World-Wide Use”
This statement is authentic. It could also have said with
equal truth that the reason why Winchester rifles are “in
world-wide use” is because they have been found by sports-
men everywhere to be superior in construction, absolutely
dependable, accurate and strong in shooting and moderate in
cost. Another reason is that Winchester rifles are made in
all desirable calibers, from .22 to .50, and in various styles and
models, suited to individual tastes, and to all kinds of shooting.
Cartridges are also “in world-wide use. In
Winchester and all other rifles and in revolvers, they
can be depended on to give the best results. Made for all arms.
Dealers Everywhere Recommend the W Brand
r
\\
u
♦54
THIS
WILL
TICKLE
YOU !
—but you can get far
more permanent en-
joyment, satisfaction, and
profit out of the use of
a
“DEERING” or “McCORMICK”
Grain Drill.
The Kind that sow the
grain right, help make big
crops and keep on doing it year
after year.
The kind that users swear
by- not at.
The kind that are easy to
buy, easy to use, and easy to
pay for.
YOURS is waiting, let us
know where and when to send
it.
International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty. Ltd.
Bris., Syd., Melb., Adle., Perth and L’tn.
Get our circular re special prices and
terms on all kinds of machinery for
March orders only. Also enquire how
to get a first-class Barometer-Ther-
mometer absolutely free.
Over 100 Awards
in Open Competition
during the last few months have been won on
B.S.A.
31 h.p. Motor Bicycles
often beating high powered machines
up to 8 h.p.
Copy of Telegram recently received :
“ B.S.A. 3% H.p. fastest on time and formula, beating 8 h.p.
twins. Tunbridge Wells and District Club Speed Trials."
Carey.
Copy of Letter recently received :
“In the unlimited class, Blackburn M.C.C. Hill Climb, the
B.S.A. Z l / 2 h.p. beat several higher powered Motor Cycles,
including 8 h.p. twins.” H. Walsh.
b
Catalogue and full partic-
ulars of B.S.A. Motor
Bicycles post free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(represeniine B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub. Free Wheel
on both gears, Back-pedalling and Front-rim Brake, and Bunlop Tyres. As
ridden by FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
ANTHONY NORP6RN <O. SONS LTP.
5
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES 1
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSONS
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and you’ll have the skin healed and healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist.
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
ISO
1] BLACK, Chemist,
Scratch! Tear!
Scratch! It is mad-
dening, yet the sooth-
ing and healing cure
for Eczema is within
your reach. Send 3d.
(in stamps) for Liberal
Sample Tube to
Collingwood, Victoria.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range. Accurate and reliable.
Holiday Price, 17/6.
D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel
barrels, walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT KILLER.
Holiday Price, £3/10/-
D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel barrels, Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND.
Special Price, £2/2/-
MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RTFLE, nice and light. A very accurate little
weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday Price, 14/6.
CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent
bolt and patent, ejector. Takes .22 long, .22 short, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our
best sellers. Holiday Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealthi
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
vcb
A Picture of
Good Health!
Mrs. ADDINGTON, of Argent Street, Broken
Hill, writes her daughter was cured of St. Vitus’s
Dance, and is NOW IN SPLENDID HEALTH
through CLEMENTS TONIC.
“Argent Street, North Broken Hill,
“10th October, 1911.
“CLEMENTS LTD.
“Some years ago my daughter, in alighting from
a tram, had a severe fall. It gave her a great
shock, and so affected her nervous system that
eventually St. Vitus’s Dance ensued. She became
so bad that it was impossible to hold a knife or
fork, and going out of the house was impossible.
“I was persuaded to try CLEMENTS TONIC. She gradually improved, and
soon regained her normal condition. Nearly two years have elapsed SINCE HEK
COMPLETE RECOVERY, and all that time she has enjoyed the best of health.
“I have great faith in CLEMENTS TONIC, and always recommend it. You
can make what use you wish of this.
' “(Signed)
(Mrs.) R. A. ADDINGTON.”
CLEMENTS TONIC is Your MEDICINE
The Rev. JOHN lIOSKING, D.D., Minister of
the Congregational Church, Fitzroy, Melbourne,
writes: —■
“I was completely run down and suffered by
nervous prostration, being troubled with Insomnia
and nervous headaches.
“After taking one bottle I slept soundly, and soon
got stronger. One bottle put me right, and was
worth its weight in gold. I recommend this medi-
cine very strongly. You may use this as you think
fit.
“(Signed) JOHN HOSKING, D.D.”
This Testimony should convince anyone suffering
from INSOMNIA or LOSS OF SLEEP and
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, of the value of this
curative medicine.
GET IT, AND GET WELL.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere.
♦


Famished
Hair Cells
Hair-failure is due to starved roots and cells.
Ail the legion of hair troubles vanish if you
strike at the root. It is the same in every ill
—you must go right to the heart of the trouble.
What the grey, languishing, dropping hairs
call for
Is an adequate food—* real nutriment.
ROWLAND'S MACASSAR OIL gives an
immediate new vitality to the feeble roots and
the “ feeding ” cells beneath them. It produces
a soft, silky sheen and texture; a full, luxuriant
growth, radiating a true natural hair -health
Softly perfumed with Otto of Roses. Supplied
in Gold Tint for fair hair.
ROWLAND’S
Macassar Oil!
is sold by Stores, Chemists, and
ROWLANDS, 67, Hatton Garden,
London.
Avoid cheap imitations with the same
or similar name.
PREPAID TO YOUR PORT.
vcb
Ten Days’ Trial allowed. Direct from
Factory. Highest-grade British MJiAD
Coventry Flyers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears, Flyer
or Brook's Saddles, etc.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
Wri»e at once, using- sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine. Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept ft 282 LIVERFCOL.
AGENT for MEAD
*■ VAL. L). COLE, Bo(.k Arcade,
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND.
CYCLES-
Melbourne.
ALL models
'HE Australian Magazine—THlS
HAND. The National Monthly.
DON IJ
Price. 6d.
LETTERS COPIED
WHILE WRITING
(IN INK)
■:Vvy
SBS
W
by using your own Letter
Paper, Invoices, etc., with this
Copying book. You simnly in-
"sert your Letter paper (as
illustrated) then write: and
the act of writing produces a
perfect letter and a perfect
copy in the book. There is no sign of 3'our having
taken a copy; no perforated edge.
Book N.S.C./200 copies either 200 letters size 10
by 8 in., or 400 size 8 by 5, price 3/9; or Book
N.S.C./400 copies 400 or 800 respectively, price ij/-
post free, cash with order. Special Dainty Octavo
Book, making 200 copies, for 3/- P. 0., or double
capacity for 4/3. Sample of the wonderful Zan-
etic Ink Paper, which makes the copy, free, if
stamped. addressed envelope sent to
8. B. ZANETIC, Welford Rd., LEICESTER, ENGLAND
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
The greatest sports-
man of the last
century, Colonel
Peter Hawker, had
complete confi-
dence in Eley Car-
tr.dges. In his Diary
(1802-1853) are
many references to
them. Here is one:
"I killed all I saw, thanks to
ELEY Cartridges, with which I
made such a succession of long
shots as I never saw in one day.”
We have been manufacturing
ammunition since the early
years of the last century, and
NO ammunition manufacturer
or loader handles or loads a
greater variety of shot gun
powders, consequently our
experience of the styles of
powders and of the specifica-
tion of loads which give the
greatest satisfaction to sports-
men, is second to none.
Eley Cartridges are obtainable from all
Gunmakers &• Ammunition Dealers.
Agent: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WHOLESALE ONLY:
ELEY BROS..L 1 ?
LONDON.
nP n £. P est Stones written by Australian
-L \Y inters appear in The Lone llanp
Magazine. Price. 6d. monthly.
i r
f \ r -y
'.'ETC
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington's Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for “BONN I NGTON'S”
1/6 & 2/6
DRUNKENNESS Cured
Any lady nan cure the most violent drunkard—secretly—at home. GOLDEN SPECIFIC has no
odor or taste, and nan be taken by the most delinate person of either sex. It totally eradicates
all craving for stimulants, creating a lasting antipathy to alcohol in a few weeks. Many cases
are cured in a few days with this treatment.... Send 2d. stamp for FREE SAMPL/E and
full particulars. THE GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO., Dept. B. 2011,94 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A CHARMING FIGURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
The lack of a well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
of four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers.... Are your
cheeks sunken and hollow? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? Are your arms thin and scrawny? And is -your chest fiat
and your bosom undeveloped? Do your shoulder-blades and the “salt-
cellars” that form at your throat make evening dress almost a tragedy?
Are you so thin that your clothes merely hang on you?
MRS. V. GRAHAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:—•
“Your treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank
Dr. FALLIERE’S FTjESII-I'OOI) for not only restoring
my health, but for building up my figure and develop-
ing my bust to my entire satisfaction. lam better in
every way from its use, and it did exactly what you
15
♦
claimed it would from its use, and even more quickly than you stated."
In many cases bust measurements have been increased by over ten inches, and the gain in
actual weight—equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases —has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a day. The
average bust increase desired is about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results guaranteed.
FLESH-FOOD offers relief and development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here, but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
We want you to know just what FLESII-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
Send a 2d. stamp, and let us forward a free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
“LOVELY WOMAN.” FLF.SII-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. All correspondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered and free from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buv because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FAELIEKE EEESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [1822J
THE CAN-MAKING INDUSTRY!
SANITARY—SIMPLE
EFFECTIVE—RAPID.
The Entire Top Open.
S^Bssa
ENTERPRISING PRESERVE OANNERS in every part of the world
have come to realise that the old, slow, unsanitary method of
manufacturing' and sealing cans by hand with poisonous solders is ob-
SOl< That is why the MAX AMS SANITARY CANNING MACHINERY
is being used bv the world’s leading canners. If you arc using cans
lor packing preserves, fruits, vegetables, or in fact any food product, the
SANITARY, SCLDERLESS, HERMETICALLY SEALED CANS
made by these machines will save you time, money and labor.
No. 58 and No. 68 Automatic Double Seamors will seal can tops on
bodies l-Jin. high and 2in. in diameter up to 1 gallon and over. The
scope in the range of possible changes is instantly appreciated.
No adjusting or fussing, or mechanical skill required. Can be run
by boy or girl.
These machines are BY NO MEANS confined to any PARTICULAR
CLASS of cans. The operation of these Seamers is SIMPLE. The
cans are automatical!v conveyed to the baseplate with the cover, and
INSTANTLY the CAN engages the rollers, making a CLEAN and tight
DOUBLE SEAM.
We Furnish Complete Outfit for Making These Cans.
For full particulars write to the
MAX AMS MACHINE CO.
MT. VERNON, NEW YORK, U.S.A.
OR THROUGH ANY EXPORT COMMISSION HOUSE.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of the
Tobacco habit if they knew they could
do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. _ lo keep it up
is to tempt death by Heart Disease, Nervous
Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and Stomach,
Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless, vege-
table remedy that will make the user of
tobacco in any form absolutely abandon the
habit for good. It not only destroys the crav-
ing the desire, the appetite for tobacco, but
restores to health the entire nervous system,
and aids nature in entirely eliminating from
the system the Nicotine Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp, and we will post you a
FTvEE SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET
“The Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
Mr. Frank Ford (Blackall P. 0., Q’land)
writes: “I teas a heavy smoker for 6j years,
but aftei taking your treatment for V, days 1
gave the pipe up for good, and never think of
smoking now.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
Dept. G, 107 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
[2.
PAGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
ARE YOU
RUPTURED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
seud you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Never mind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is, in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
W.E GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children,
lESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collin«-st. f Melbourne, Vic.
Kruschen
7 Salts x
Now Sold by Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
Wholesale Importers:
H. & W. GREAR, 287, Clarenc * Snet, SYDNEY.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song of the Lost Dredgers.
London, Friday.
The missing dredge Posidonia is uninsurable.
— Cable.
It wasn’t a ship and it wasn’t a house —it
was something in between,
But you sent us out at a sailor’s wage to
navigate your machine;
You sent us out and we didn’t come back to
ask for our hard-earned pay;
But we’ll wallow along with our fires all out
to damn you on Judgment Day.
To save the money that wasn’t yours, you
bought what the foreigners built,
And ordered it over God’s outer sea to har-
vest your harbor silt;
You hired us sailors to take the risk, for a
sailorman’s life is cheap ;
And now your foreign-built tub is gone and
we’re all drowned in a heap.
Whose is the guilt for this ocean sin—this
national treachery ?
Whose faith is so weak that others must
drown with a harbor machine at sea?
Is the work of your brains and hands so
bad —is your sight so cruelly short
That you cannot see it is all sheer waste —a
species of madman’s sport?
The money is gone and the dredge is gone,
and you’ve taken our sailor lives ;
And our skill and strength were all that we
had, so what of our kids and wives?
We might have sailed in a proper ship if
you’d built your dredge at home,
Then you would have your money still and
we would be free to roam.
It wasn’t a ship and it wasn’t a house —it
was something in between ;
But we took the risk for your cursed pay
and our grave is deep and green.
Yes, you searched to prove that you cared
for us and our mourners far away—-
But we’ll come with our skeletons hung
with weed to damn you on Judgment
Day !
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
The Tale of Mullah El Keb.
I know not just how it started —only this:
that the fend was red —•
Aye, as red as the silken turban around Ab-
dullah’s head. >
And learned I this: In the old-time, in a
land remotely far,
Abdullah was foully murdered where the
brown vendettas are.
Ilis blood had clotted the verdure —and his
death was no great harm:
But counted his vileness little against his
■kinsmen’s sharm.
And learned I this as I listened one night to
a camel bell:
That loud was the cry for vengeance where
the lean brown tribesmen dwell.
For theirs was the fierce, hot crimson that
matched the stain on the grass,
And Kandra’s the black, black vengeance
that echoed through range and pass.
They hearkened to Kandra’s curses, so ever
the story ran,
As he made his vows on the hillside of
Takht-i-Suliman.
And down through the Pass of Ivhaiber,
where her and acacia grew,
Mullah el Iveb went sleepless because of the
fear he knew.
Through the hills that Allah had builded,
tramping in sleepless spans,
He travelled and travailed in terror ahead of
the caravans.
For little it counts if spices, or ivory, or
myrrh
Beckon the murderer backward when sliarm's
black hatreds stir.
And out on the plains of Indus no portion of
rest had he;
For vengeance lurks in the shadows, leaving
no murderer be.
Out on the Rim of the Sunset Mullah el Keb
found work,
Steering old Hoogli’s camels back o’ beyond
o’ Bourke.
A lean brown Sphinx of the silence, he
uttered no waking word
Of that which reddened the verdure and
fierce black hatreds stirr’d.
From Bourke to the Border Stations, and out
through the Empty Lands,
Daily he steered the hunchies over and over
the sands;
Smoking at night on the sand-drift, staring
a stony stare
Out at the Silent Spaces—and finding no
comfort there.
But hate is shorn of its terrors as time goes
rolling away,
And the vengeance of Ivandra likened to that
of a far-gone day;
For the sea is not as the Ganges—and who
would challenge the sea
For the sake of a long-dead tribesman? —and
a worthless scoundrel he!
Three years went by. Came a season when
Mullah set out alone
With goods for the Border Stations —a third
of the team his own.
Let tales of the drovers’ telling be accepted
or be spurned,
But I know, with the Sunset People, that
Mullah never returned.
* * * *
And back through the Pass of Ivhaiber, where
her and acacia grow,
Because of Kandra’s story the mode of his
death they know.
In the hills that Allah has builded a strange,
strange tale they tell;
And great is the glory of Ivandra —who had
honored his vengeance well.
NEVER NEVER LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.


nr on
Cigarettes
You'll find solid enjoyment in SARONY
CIGARETTES. Their mild but rich
aroma will satisfy you when all else fails.
THE QUALITY NEVER VARIES.
THE FLAVOR NEVER CHANGES.
Turkish or Virginia.
All Leading Tobacconists.
Manufactured by i
NICOLAS SARONY 8 CO., New Bond Street, London, W.
vc
58 JS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s.
6d. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Par-
ticulars posted on application to
The Manager.
çvb
LISTER BRUSTON
Automatic
Electric
Lighting'
Plant.
Starts Itself.
Stops Itself.
Simpler and
Cheaper than
any other
type of
liluminant.
M .S.W.-
t ournc
AGENTS:
-W. C. Watson & Co. Ltd., 279 Clarence St., Sydney; VlC.—Sutherland &
; QUEENSLAND—Winchcombe Carson Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane; S. AUS.—
Ashman, Flinders St., Mel-
Clutterbuok Bros., Adelaide.
The Australian
Magazine.
THE LONE NANP
The National
flonthly, 6d.
■ ■>- »•
'V.. *-• •o , ’j r
i]
vcb
LAGER
Possesses distinctive qualities—it
is a delightfully retfreshing, in-
vigorating and nourishing Lager
—valuable as a food for Nursing
Mothers, Invalids, etc-—apart from
its high-grade merit as a light
beverage.
OBTAINABLE at all FERST-CLASS
CLUBS, HOTELS, RESTAURANTS,
etc.
/yte£.
*
1*!
'I
mi
m
j:h
M
■jr
IVe Manufacture
Plain Round Tread <& Special Heavy Three Ribbed .
Price Lists and all Particulars on application.
PERDRIAU Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Also MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE.
WORK SOON FINISHED
Work is soon finished with
SHI-NOLEUM,
IN HALF THE USUAL TIME
you can give your Linoleums
and Furniture a beautiful polish
—no hard work—nothing but
satisfaction.
Try a tin to-day—it is sold by all
leading Storekeepers—do not
accept an imitation —There is
nothing “ just-as-good ” as
SHI-NOLEUM
i
N
The CHINESE USE THIS SYMBOL
TO EXPRESS COMPLETENESS.
The perfect balance—the unbroken circle—these denote unity.. . .The symbol stands
for something: that is absolutely self-contained and complete.
And this brings us to the I/EBLOND LATHE:-
:
v-'Vv. v
mmmm
MsfvasmLJßmi
m
LEBLOND 21in. Heavy Duty Single Pulley Drive.
12 SPINDLE SPEEDS INSTANTLY AVAILABLE.
The frictions are a new and very efficient type. They are capable of transmit-
ting five times the power that can be put through the driving belt. Highest gear
drive, 56 to 1.
This is the most powerful design all-geared lieadstock built.
To eliminate all idle movement we have applied an apron starting and stopping
device, in addition to the immediately available speed changes. The operator
never raises his arm above a certain operating plane.
REMOVES 45 CUBIC INCHES OF 25 P. CARBON STEEL PER MINUTE.
Diameter of Bar 6 inches
Cutting speed 40 feet
Depth of cut ••.. 3 inch
Feed per revolution of spindle « inch
R.P.M 400
Pounds of metal removed per hour
CARRIED IN STOCK BY
BENSON BROTHERS, LIMITED,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
All Classes of Engineers* Machine Tools StocKed.
51-53 Druitt Street,
SYDNEY.
60 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
v„ 3,-E,. .rso.
THURSDAY, MARCH 20, 1914.
Price 6d.
“WE DON’T WANT TO FIGHT, BUT”
Mr. Cook threatens to force a double dissolution with his Postal Vote and Non-Preference Bills. —News item.
BOS’UN FORREST: “Well, Cap’n, shall I open up the chest and load the gun?”
THE PIRATE CAPTAIN BOLD: “No, for goodness sake don’t do that. It might go off and kill us. Besides, I’ve stuffed it
up with paper—it’s safer that way.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac-
Leod, of Musgrave and McLeod Streets,
Mosman, for The Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., at the Office of the Co., 214
George Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEI’IIONES: City 2389.
City 2390.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
£1 6s. 6d. per Annum, including Special
Christmas Number, post paid.
lly scjiiliug direct to Tins LiiJi, listin' Office Twenty-
Six Shillings and Sixpence Sterling you can have
The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
Chei/ucs, Drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to The
Manager.
llow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the
paper (and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some
care as to methods of address.
Husiness letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad-
vertiscnicnls, etc.) should in no case be addressed to
the HdUor, but to the Manager. To send them to
the Editor is to invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters
to anyone by name. “The Editor, The Bulletin," is
the proper superscription for “copy.” Delay, and
even loss, is sometimes caused by addressing to per-
sons instead of officials. The person may not be
there; the official always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submilled, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short
Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say, 3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid' for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under -which such
aritstic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg: Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsy th and Co., )/1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver. 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, B.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco; C. W. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A. ; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets. San Diego,
Cal.: Hay City News Co.. San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IP. E. Lai chan, ;">B5
2!Uli Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Ldvrr.— lgngce Horn. Port Said, Egypt.
lloxn Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
llong Kong.
Ceylon, —lP. G. P. Perera, 10 Haillic Street, Fort
Colombo.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on
account of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale
agents) to Victoria. West Australia, Queensland. Tas-
mania and New Zealand; and on account of Messrs.
Atkinson and Co. and lligby, Ltd., Adelaide—at
I//0 per doz. nett.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6sin.
x lf/in.. and gelatine transparencies will be for-
warded on application. Larger metal plates can be
supplied if desired.
Postage Kates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper):—Throughout the Commonwealth. New Zea-
land, Fiji. British New Guinea, Norfolk and Lord
llowe Islands, Iooz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea
Route. IGoz., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: Boz., Id., Bioz.
to lOoz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, ioz.,
Id., and Id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 1914.
BIGJOHN’S SCHEME.
A good many years ago Australia went to a
heap of trouble to put in its Constitution a
clause giving itself power to take over the
State debts as they stood at Creation —the
political Creation of this country, that is.
But nothing came of the proviso, and nobody
except George Turner, who loved a vast,
dreary financial problem as if it was a
brother, seriously tried to make anything
come of it. Later on another heap of trouble
was taken to clothe the Australian Govern-
ment with some more authority. It was
permitted to take over, not only the State
debts as they stood on Creation day, but the
State debts as they stood at any time —all
the liabilities, curses and appurtenances—
and to do so on practically any sort of basis
that seemed good in its eyes. Again, nothing
happened. For a long time nothing was
even attempted, and as George Turner
had attempted something the second effort
looked really worse than the first. The
trouble seems to be that the debt question
isn’t a party matter. It is merely a large
and vital Australian question. No consolida-
tion scheme that can be evolved will make
the Government crowd enthusiastic and
unanimous, or make the Opposition wholly
wild and abusive and miserable. It is an
item of business that is even likely to split
parties by making a certain number of
Laborites and Liberals get together on one
side, while a second mixed crowd combines
on the other side. It doesn’t supply an in-
spiring war-whoop for the electors, for
though the benefit to the country would be
enormous if the debts were taken over and
consolidated on wise principles, the benefits
wouldn’t be visible to-day or even to-morrow.
They would accrue to Posterity, and among
the cheap, ordinary, hand-to-mouth politi-
cians there is a rooted objection to doing any-
thing for Posterity. The objection couldn’t
be stronger if Posterity had committed
bigamy.
* * # *
It is to the credit of Bigjoiin Forrest’s
patriotism that he now proposes to attack
the State debt problem. Also it is to the
credit of his astuteness, for the Cook Gov-
ernment, having very little in the way of a
party behind it, is almost forced, in self-
defence, and for the sake of advertisement,
to depart a little from ordinary party jobbery
and try its hand at some national problem.
It may be driven to endeavor a big thing for
want of sufficient voting power to potter at
small things. There are many fascinating
possibilities in the case. If the whole Com-
monwealth was put in the melting pot accord-
ing to a comprehensive programme of Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction, the position would
be simple. The present State Legislatures
would shut Up for ever and a day. There
would be six sacked Ministries and six job-
less State Governors, with their wives, pri-
vate secretaries and aides-de-camp. All the
liabilities and assets and bad debts and bad
specs and frauds and aspersions would
become Federal property, and there would
be no argument as to whether the local com-
munity with the larger debt gained a little
on the deal, or the one with the smaller debt
lost a little. The country would start afresh
as a crowd of small States, each with a
cheap little one-house (not one-horse) Legis-
lature, a cheap local sub-Governor, very
limited borrowing powers or perhaps none at
all, no control of railways, and a humble and
chastened spirit. That would be the best
and simplest way of doing things. But in
the absence of any party which has courage
enough to go in for whole hog reconstruction
there are other possibilities.
* * * *
The scheme which Big John is supposed to
favor is that the Commonwealth shall reach
out a hesitating hand, seize each State loan
as it falls due (and something is falling due
almost every day), attend to the renewal, and
take possession thereafter. Then it will charge
that State with interest and sinking fund on
the debt taken over, and deduct the amount
from its subsidy of 255. per inhabitant per
annum. It is a slow, timid process, and
not nearly so satisfactory as an immediate
assumption of the whole responsibility. The
Commonwealth will be always taking over
State debts and never getting possession of
the whole of them, and the Federal sinking
fund will only apply to a part of the debt —
never to all of it. On the other hand the
scheme —if it really exists —has this present
merit—that no State’s liability in the way
of interest and sinking fund willexceed the
amount of its Federal subsidy for a very long
time to come, therefore the bill can be collected
quite simnly and easily by a process of stop-
page and deduction, and there will be no
immediate need to devise anything in the way
of differential taxation. The device is half-
hearted, but with all drawbacks it will be a
vast deal better than nothing. Forrest,
according to report, proposes to take the line
of least resistance, but then none of his pre-
decessors took anything at all, and none
save Turner tried to take anything.
* * * *
The States will, presumably, go on bor-
rowing, and will pile up new debts while the
Commonwealth is paying off the old ones. This
will be bad, but it might be worse. Every
time a loan falls due and is taken over, the
Commonwealth will present the thriftless
State with another annual bill for staking
fund. It may be an absurdly futile bill —
rumor sneaks of a wretchedly small sinking
fund contribution of ss. per £lOO per annum
—-but it will have a steadying effect. It
will be a constant reminder that the borrow-
ing curse comes home to roost sooner or later.
And there is always the hope that if a begin-
ning is once made in the good work of debt
consolidation and repayment, greater things
may follow. A future Treasurer may gird
up his loins, and take over all the burdens
in a heap, and make the sinking fund £1 per-
cent. all round, and bid a crowd of protest-
ing State Treasurers to flee into Hades.
Anything may happen provided something
begins to happen. And Bigjohn should be
the man to make the beginning. His own
State has a repayment proviso attached to
every debt —in which respect it is unique.
It owns as much accumulated sinking fund
as the other five States combined. There-
fore Bigjoiin can get to work without laying
any extra burden on his own people, or losing
votes in his own country. Also he can take
the opportunity to preach a sermon on the
comparative soundness of Westralian finance,
which used to be his own finance, and on that
topic he can cock-a-doodle at great length.
A MATTER OF CLASS.
Dear Bulletin, —The Red Page (B.
19/3/T4) calls C. E. Jacomb’s recent howl
at all things Australian “the finest exposure
yet vouchsafed us of the soul of the Eng-
lishman.” The phrase is too sweeping. As
a matter of fact, Jacomb’s effort exposes
the soul of one sort of Englishman only—
the middle-class Englishman. I think it is
Hamebton who lays it down That it is im-
possible to make an accurate psychological
study of any Englishman without taking his
class into consideration. The Englishman
of the poorer classes usually approves of
Australia. The Labor Leagues estimate
that about SO per cent, of immigrants be-
come enthusiastic Nationalists and demo-
crats within a year of arriving in the Com-
monwealth. The ones that kick are either
uuemployables, who are unhappy every-
where, or folks whose luck has gone hope-
lessly wrong and got them down. The
Englishman of the aristocratic class —the
typq who in London belongs to the. Marl-
borough or White’s, or one of the big poli-
tical or University clubs, who joins the
local clubs immediately he arrives in Aus-
tralia, and who is accepted everywhere as
a desirable character—finds Australia alto-
gether satisfactory. So alluring does the
Englishman of this class find the Australian
girl (the same girl whom the Jacomb
variety of Englishman considers unspeak-
able) that he marries her. It is
not a question of money. Many Aus-
tralian peeresses—the Countesses of. Lind-
sey, Uarnley and so on —brought no dowries
to their husbands. The simple explanation
is that the class into which they married
views Australia and Australians quite dif-
ferently from the class to which Jacomb
belongs.
’ * * * *
Properly to comprehend the grinding
hatred of Australia (or Canada, or South
Africa, or Maoriland, or even Kerguelen, or
the Falkland Islands, or perhaps St. Helena)
which inspires a Jacomb it is l neces-
sary to hark back to- the very begin-
ning of things. The infuriated young
man is a Harrovian. lie dedicates his
book to Harrovians. lie would not for the
world have you forget the fact that lie was
at Harrow —the reason being that it is the
most important event of his life, from a
social standpoint. To any Australian who
is incapable of appreciating the tremendous
factor that schools like Eton and Harrow
represent in the eyes of the bourgeois Eng-
lish youth, I would recommend I'ekcy
White’s “Colonel Davoron” —a novel, by the
way, which contains a portrait of a very
charming Australian girl. The idea that
the boys at White’s “potty little private
school” have of the tremendous social im-
portance of going to Harrow is
astonishing to one who has no personal
acquaintance with middle-class England.
Harrovians, Etonians and so on divide up
roughly into two sections: (1) those who
are there as a matter of course; who could
not conceive the thought of going to any
other school than Harrow or Eton or Win-
chester, and who consequently never dream
of making a song about. it; and (2) those
who but for the grace of a rich uncle or a
lucky parental spec, would have got a sound
commercial training at some such place as
the Margate Grammar School, or the Bir-
mingham Academy; for Young Gents. It is
this type of youth who makes a nuisance of
himself in after years by getting up Old
Boys’ dinners; forming Old Boys’ clubs;
dedicating bookstand things to “The Old
School”; and forcing his acquaintance on
total strangers who happen to have been at
the Old School. In his opinion—and such
is the staying-power of stupidity that the
delusion remains often till middle-age or
thereabouts —the men of his race consist (a)
of “the right sort of peonle,” meaning those
who have been to a nublic school of stand-
ing; (ft) “outsiders,” meaning persons of
other than royal or noble, birth, who have
been what is called “privately educated.”
*'•'« * *
So long as the bourgeois public-school boy
stays in England his social withers remain
more or less unwrung. There are so many
in a like position to himself. But some-
times he moves to Australia —or to Canada
or S’Africa. And then, if he is inarticulate,
he sits down and wonders dumbly why
God —England’s God, and hence a Deity
who is essentially a Gentleman —allows such
places to pollute the earth ; while, if he has
the fevered pen of a Jacomb, or of the
Hebrew tripper who was responsible for
“The Awful Australian,” he gets rid of
some of his anguish by writing a book.
I can picture Jacomb’s career from the
time his ship left England for Australia as
though I had been at his side. I have
known so many of him. During the voyage
he mentioned, not less than three times
daily on an average, that he had been to
Harrow. Ciiubchill was a contemporary
of his. He referred to Chubciiill tolerantly
as “Winston,” but deplored his radical ten-
dencies. While admitting a certain surface
cleverness on the part of his old school-
fellow, he would note sadly that Winston
was “rather a bounder,” “hardly the sort
of chap one would ask to meet one’s people,”
and so forth. This attitude impressed con-
siderably the flat-faced maiden from Dundee
(N. 8.) who was going to Shanghai to
marry the young fellow in Reutek’s
office there; also the traveller in Manchester
goods who had had all his schooling at the
S. Hampstead Preparatory College. On the
otitter hand it revolted the rest of his table-
coinpanions, more particularly cheery old
squatter Blogges, who had had no school-
ing anywhere, and his friend General Hogge,
who, while regarding Ciiubchill as a
menace to the Empire, considered it well
over the odds that lie should be criticised
by a suburban cad of the Jacomb stamp.
Jacomb’s first introduction to the “Aus-
tralian accent” cast him into a species of
frenzy. This class of Englishman attaches
an inordinate importance to the genteel in
diction. The same remark allies to the
same class of English girl, who, whether
she lives the leisured life of Clapham, or
works for her living in Mabsiiall and
Snellgbove’s or Habbod’s, provides an
equally faithful imitation at all times of
the stage articulation of Miss Gebtie
Millab. That is whv it is becoming fashion-
able to talk carelessly—just as when a wave
of culture smites England it becomes,
presently, the fashion to be illiterate.
Fashion is, to a large extent, a tireless
struggle to be unlike Jacomb. I dined at
the Traveller’s last time I was in Paris.
Amongst others at the table was Jacomb—
or. rather, one of his sort. In a little while
Fbank Otteb came Otteb” of
many diverting Pink ’Un sketches and one
of the best-known men about London and
Paris. It has been his whim from his
schooldays to affect a sort of costermonger
accent. Jacomb was profoundly shocked.
It was plain that he grieved for us who
were on familiar terms with this unspeak-
able member of the proletariat. Not till he
had elicited by careful cross-examination
that Otteb had been at a public school and
Oxford, as a preliminary to entering a cav-
alry regiment, did Jacomb revert to normal.
The ruling accent of Australia differs from
the ruling accent of (say) Jay’s hat shop,
just as the ruling accents of New York
State, Kentucky, Yorkshire, Inverness and
Meath differ from each other. Where the
stupid, or untravelled, or hopelessly genteel
English person errs is in the idea that there
is any significance worth mentioning in such
matters.
* * * *
To revert to the Australian career of
Jacomb. He intimated before arriving in
Victoria that he was a member of the
Junior Constitutional, and wouldn’t mind
joining the Melbourne Club. The Melbourne
Clubites aboard said, privily, that they
would see the d—d remittancer boiled first,
or words to that effect. He told everyone
he met in Melbourne that he was an Old
Harrovian. No one was impressed. Some
of the most unsatisfactory shearers’ cooks
in the Comomnwealth are old Harrovians.
One of the ways in which Australia and
the larger spaces generally differ from
seminaries such as that of which the afore-
said Percy White has written so well, lies
in their blank indifference to where a man
has been educated. Jacomb’s circle of
friends remained severely limited. By the
time he reached Mildura and embarked
in the raisin industry he had almost ceased
to talk about Harrow. It was becoming
apparent to him that Australians Simply
Didn’t Understand. Life in a land where
no one was interested in Harrow, where no
eye took on a reverential gleam when men-
tion was made of the Dear Old Hill, grew
intolerable to the wretched Jacomb. Bereft
of people who were capable of being im-
pressed _by the fact that he was an Old
Harrovian he was merely Jacomb—in a
word, nothing. He sold the raisin-ranch and
published a book. What else could he do
and still remain Jacomb? —Yours, etc.,
“10-2-4.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Absurd Rents of Sydney.
A few day?? ago Premier Holman, of N.S.W.,
stated, with a certain aspect of misery in his
eye, that rents are much higher in Sydney
than in Melbourne or Brisbane, thus malt-
ing life none too good for the toiling classes;
and he enumerated the efforts he had made
to improve things. These consisted of the
Fair llents Bill for the compulsory lowering
of the landlord’s charges; the amalgamation
of the Savings Banks, so as to
create an institution which would lend
money at a low rate to people who
Want to own the houses they live
in ; and the building of Daceyville." The
first two schemes were wrecked in the Upper
House, and the third was so limited and cur-
tailed that -it didn’t do nearly so much as
was intended. To these three failures he
ascribed the high rents of Sydney; the impli-
cation being that Holman had the brains to
find out the cause of the evil, and -the will
and capacity to put things right, only mal-
evolent and uninformed creatures got in the
road. And yet, by his own showing, Mel-
bourne, which has neither Holman nor Hol-
man’s devices, is, by comparison with Syd-
ney, a low-rent city, and the worker there
doesn’t totter under the burden which his
brother carries in the Ma State metropolis.
It is interesting to speculate on the reasons.
Melbourne had, on last census day, a popula-
tion of 588,971, while Sydney had 029,503.
Since then Sydney has greatly increased its
lead, and it is now supposed to have 60,000
or 70,000 more people than the Victorian
capital. All these people are clamoring for
house room. Sydney takes great pride in
its status as the biggest place in Australasia,
and in its extra special congestion, and in
its consequent struggle for somewhere to lay
its head. These dignities, like most others,
have to be paid for. Melbourne puts its
smaller population on 163,480 acres." Syd-
ney crowds its much larger population on a
mere 95,259 acres, and that pressure causes
the intensity of the battle for four rooms and
a kitchen and a backyard. One reason why
Sydney is compressed so badly, and has such
anxiety for a dingy terrace house, is the
lame and blind and imbecile character of its
means of communication. The Sydneyite
can’t live so far out as the Melbourneite or
the Brisbaneite or the Adelaideite. Mel-
bourne has a railway running right through
the city. Sydney hasn’t. Melbourne has
bridges and railways and tramways across
its waterway. Sydney has been talking of
building bridges across the harbor and mak-
ing tunnels under it for half a century, but
it still depends on the Private Enterprise
ferry boat. Melbourne has railway com-
munication with every suburb of importance,
also its trains run down to the piers at Port
Melbourne and Williamstown. A very large
section of Sydney depends entirely on a tram
service, and, by reason of the narrowness and
overcrowding of the streets, the up-to-date
electric cars of Sydney often make worse
time than the antiquated cable contraptions
of Melbourne. (In like manner Adelaide
and Brisbane, though they have a popula-
tion less than one-third that of Sydney, cover
very much more ground. They also have
fairly good city and suburban railway sys-
tems, and so the city workers can live far
out, and scoff a good deal at the grasping
landlord of Paddington or the hungry house-
agent at Darlinghurst.) Sydney tries hard
to be the one monster city of a State of
310,000 square miles, while. Melbourne, bad
as it is, only aims at being the solitary and
bloated centre of a State of 88,000 square
miles. To sum up the case, Sydney’s, draw-
backs are its congestion, its pride of size, its
Millions Club, its lanes, its almost complete
lack of a suburban railway system, the want
of good means of communication over the
harbor, and the complete absence of a rail-
way through the city—a point in which it is
behind even Perth. It doesn’t require a
verbose lawyer politician, who will adver-
tise himself by shaking a disordered axe at
the city landlord, so much as it wants an
engineer politician who will alter the condi-
tions which have made the city landlord boss
of the situation, and a capable financial
politician who will find the necessary mone\
on terms that are not wholly ruinous. Bnt
he must be a real financier —not a boundless
and shoreless public ass or a person whose
chief asset is his untravelled wilderness of
effrontery.


The Imported Tyrant.
Australia seems to have acquired a wholly
undesirable settler in a certain G. 11. Ken-
dall —described as “organiser of the Amal-
gamated Society of Engineers of South
Africa” —for whose extradition the Botha
Government, it is said, proposes to apply.
Mr. Kendall got as far as Melbourne in
his flight, and there, instead of getting to
work as a plain engineer, he started to
address meetings and deafen this country
with ex parte statements about his wrongs
in another country a very long distance
away. Some of his statements —on which
this paper’s opinion of Kendall’s undesira-
bility is based —were as follows :
In comparing Industrial conditions in South
Africa and Australia, although they had it “stuffed
down their necks’’ in South Africa that Australia
was “God's own country” for the worker, he found
the conditions and workmen here very much the same
as they were in any other place, lie had actually
seen men and women running to their work —a thing
he had always been strongly opposed to.
And again :—•
I can see that every possible means must be used
when an industrial strike is on. It is really war,
and you have to treat it as a war. During the strike
a striker, suffering from phthisis, who had only
three or four months to live, and who is dead now,
came to us and said that if we would look after
his wife and children he would engage himself as a
“scab” in Keinfontein, and take in sufficient cyanide
to poison the whole of the “scabs” inside and him-
self as well. (Loud applause.) 1 thought that a
little too much. I am not averse from murdering a
“scab,” but to send a man in cold blood to poison
probably 400 or 500 men is going a LITTLE bit too
far.
I hope the Government of this country will not
lend themselves to the Government of South Africa
by extraditing: me over there. The least this Govern-
ment can do is to allow me to lead a peaceful exist-
ence. I have conformed to the laws since I have
been in Australia. I do not know whether I shall
always conform to them, because, as a rule, I am
a rebel at heart, and in all probability I shall be a
rebel in this country, as I have been on the other
side.
As _ regards people running to their work,
which Kendall is strongly opposed to —
well, if you have cut things too fine you must
run or be unpunctual, and unpunctuality
isn’t a virtue, nor is it big enough to be a
vice. It is a slovenly, untidy, crumpled
habit, like a dirty shirt front, or forgetting
to Clean your teeth, or not washing, or leav-
ing old egg-stains on your whiskers. Un-
punctuality has spoiled many a good busi-
ness, and many a promising revolution, and
many a meeting of Amalgamated Engineers.
In the glorious days of 1715 the Scotch
rebels failed to take Edinburgh Castle be-
cause Charles Forbes, their belated
engineer, walked to his job with the
scaling ladders instead of running. If
the employer is unpunctual with the
wages there is annoyance, and if the doctor
doesn’t run when he hears that Kendall’s
wife is on the edge of death there is a row,
and if. the Lord didn’t make the universe
keep time there would be a most unholy
smash. As for Kendall’s statement that
he expects to be a rebel in Australia, there
are some things that should be impressed
upon him. This country has, at great trouble
and labor, secured absolute manhood and
womanhood suffrage in its Federal Parlia-
ment. Some of the State Legislatures are
not yet quite up to the mark, still they can
be upset any day, and their powers trans-
ferred to the Federal Parliament, by a vote
of the Federal electors, who comprise prac-
tically the whole adult male and female popu-
lation —lunatics and people in gaol are neces-
sarily excepted. In Australia the commu-
nity rules. It may not rule to the satisfac-
tion of an organiser of Amalgamated Engi-
neers who has fled from South Africa, but
it rules. And if a bumptious roarer
with . all the elements of a tyrant
in his disposition—whether he is a
Visconti of Milan, or a Pope or Pompey
of Rome, or a Robespierre of France, or a
Cleon of Athens, or a bolting organiser
from South Africa —proposes to be a rebel
against complete popular Government, it
is best to get in early and sit on that fellow
hard. Either the people must govern, or
the control of things must pass to an
oligarchy like the French Committee of
Public Safety—a. crowd of patriots, or
rebels, or organisers, or strike-leaders or
makers of civil war. Kendall, regarded as
a man who expects to disapprove, in his very
high importance, of the laws which the Aus-
tralian people make for the Australian
people, and to take matters out of the hands
of the public and start to put them right,
has all the ear-marks of a budding oligarch.
He is calculated to please the Tory gang,
which is always glad when it can preach
about the obvious inability of “the masses”
for peaceful self-government, but he is equally
calculated to be disastrous to the com-
munity. He ought to get a job.
♦ —-
The Importance of Providing for Noodle
and Puffy and Edmund Sparkler.
The recent Charles Dickens wrote bit-
terly at times re the foolish politics of aris-
tocratic England. In “Little Dorrit” he
grew satirical over the urgent need to “pro-
vide for” Edmund Sparkler, which futile
character ultimately got a job at the Cir-
cumlocution Office; and in “Bleak House”
he became sarcastic over the way the country
was supposed to be “lost” unless a Coodle
or Doodle Government could dig up a
position for Noodle, or a Buffy Ministry
discover a suitable salaried niche for Puffy.
The present N.S.W. Administration appears
to know more than Coodle or Buffy. Any-
how, it has again got ex-Minister Nielsen
off its mind by sending him forth, with a
salary of £4 per day. to represent N.S.W. at
the Panama Exhibition. Twice before
Nielsen went away to study something hazy
and indefinite, or do something misty and
non-committal, or represent something of
little visible importance, at £4 per day, and
for part of the time he enjoyed his Parlia-
mentary salary in addition. So it begins to
look as if the desire to provide for Nielsen
was even more intense that the necessity to
find paid occupation for Edmund Sparkler,
also honorable employment for Noodle and
Puffy. And between the date when this
frequently-remunerated man came back from
the U.S. for the second time at £4 a day,
and left for the third time to go to the same
place at the same wage, he had other public
employment. It isn’t easy to see why the
State of N.S.W. wants separate representa-
tion in the U.S. on account of the Panama
Exhibition. That republic is an unprofit-
able customer which buys from the Ma
State a comparative trifle worth about
£1,800,000 per annum, while it contrives to
sell to N.S.W. goods worth over £5,000,000.
As a commercial acquaintance it isn’t in
the same street with France or Germany or
Belgium. It really seems that, if any man
was wanted, one man might have served for
the whole of Australia, and done the work,
if there is any work, on less exorbitant
terms. The permanence and frequency of
ex-Minister Nielsen grow wearisome, especi-
ally at a time when the Treasury is in such
desperate straits that it has been considered
necessary to put on the biggest and most
sudden mass of new taxation on record. In
prosperous times it may be allowable to
“provide for” Edmund Sparkler and find
places for Noodle and Puffy. But in des-
perately lean years these gentlemen ought
to go out and get work —at least, some
people are unreasonable enough to say so.
Certain individuals are even so cantankerous
as to complain of another recent appoint-
ment made by the Holman Government —
that of a Sydney Morning Herald man as
“Government Press Commissioner.” A
Government Press Commissioner is a new
idea. The name suggests a sort of advance
agent, and the Cabinet isn’t a dwarf or a
fat girl or a picture show that it should
require a highly-paid advance agent.
The “Telegraph’s” Imported Editor.
The Sydney Telegraph announced officially
the name of its new editor last week, lie
is one D. D. Brauam, of London, lie has
never visited Austialia, and on his record,
journalistic and otherwise, seems likely to
know as little about the community whose
opinions he is expected to form as any liv-
ing writer in a big English-speaking com-
munity. On the other nand, he has had
charge of the Foreign Department of the
London Times, and, according to one of his
references or testimonials which the Tele-
graph had the banal humorlessness to print
in full, as if it was a case of a night-watchman
applying for a job, he is “a very nice fellow
who will get on well with the people he has
to work with.” The Telegraph is pre-
eminently the Australian paper which con-
siders that no good can come out of Naza-
reth, or, rather, Australia. It voices the
opinions of the foreign importer, the re-
mittance man, and the Yankee drummer
who is here to earn or steal a bit and get
away with the plunder as. soon as possible.
In no way could this lamentable tendency
have been demonstrated better than in its
action over the editorship business. With a
self-abasement that is more than Asiatic it
says to N. S. Wales in effect: “We have
been training up journalists for generations.
But at the end of it all we haven’t been
able to produce one that Is as well fitted to
run our paper as a young man who has
spent his life 12,000 miles away, and who
knows no more about the details of the
political and social problems of the country
than a Siberian native does of sugar
planting.” Mr. Braiiam will arrive here
possessed of nothing but the most super-
ficial acquaintance with the constitutional
and industrial difficulties which form the
subject-matter of about half the average big
daily’s editorial comment. His ignorance
will be complete in regard to the
Australian’s attitude towards religion,
sport, the drama, the King, the King’s
representatives—Federal and State —and
a hundred other vital questions. The
attitude of the average local man in these
matters is as widely separated from that of
the average man with whom the new Tele-
graph editor has been accustomed to con-
sort as Brisbane is from Perth. Sometimes
the distinction is obvious —most of Aus-
tralia’s amateur sportsmen, for example,
would be indubitable professionals at Ox-
ford. Sometimes it is a difference which
can’t be stated in words, but which the
native feels in his bones —the local senti-
ment in regard to the Established Church,
the Throne and various other institutions
are cases in point. But the new importation
will have to do more than assimilate local
knowledge and the fine,shades of local public
feeling. He will be compelled, unless he is
the most unusual Times staff man on re-
cord, to make recantation of the doctrines
of a lifetime. Assume that he is a Unionist,
as one fairly may, in view of the facts that
he has been associated with the Times for
16 years, and is acclaimed by one of his
editors as “imbued with strong Imperial
feeling.” Some of his first duties, in getting
to work in King-street, will be to laud the
Parliament Act; heap encomiums on the
Redmondites; denounce the Lords, and
clamor for the abolition of the hereditary
principle. He will probably be an Anti-
Socialist —not the bogus variety which we
see in the ranks of Liberalism, but the real,
consistent, Bruce Smith thing. Also he is
likely to be. if only theoretically, a church-
man. As Telegraph editor he will be
forced to uphold an education system which
is Socialistic to the core: and which is as
much anathema to British Anglicans as it
is to Australian Catholics. He will be
mixed up with Socialistic railways and
tramways. He will run against public
land-ownership. Hp will even meet
with Daceyville. Without laboring the
point it is enough to say that he
will have to spend many humiliating months
swallowing old views, and more months ab-
sorbing fresh ones, if he isn’t to abandon his
job and go back aemin. Meanwhile the men
who might have filled the position will be
doing most of the work and getting neither
credit n r financial recompense for it. It
is a miserable business from start to finish.
What hope has Australia of being regarded
as a grown-up nation in foreign parts, when
its very newspapers see fit to import the
men whose business it is to tell the country
how to conduct itself?
What Do They Get Out of It?
Once more Victoria’s State coal mine at
Wonthaggi has lain idle, and once more the
responsible party was the pestiferous small
boy. Some unduly tired wheelers had recently
to be sacked. The other wheelers in that shift
thereupon “struck.” The management re-
quested some miners to come out and do
wheeling for their mates ; they refused, and
threw the pit idle. Others supported
them, and then the general manager coldly
announced that he was sick of such idiocy
and shut down the whole outfit until such
time as a sound, satisfactory, cast-iron agree-
ment should be arrived at whereby
he might know that men and boys
who contracted with the State to
do certain work for certain wages would
stick to their bargain. After that the rail-
way department despatched its staff of em-
ployees engaged about the mine to Mel-
bourne, having nothing for them to do at
Wonthaggi; with the result that thousands
of pounds in \yeekly wages were being sacri-
ficed ; business in the township was non-
existent ; and things generally were
only middling. The same boys stopped
operations at Wonthaggi only a month
ago. On that occasion the executive
of the local branch of the Miners’
Union considered the matter pnd decided
that the nippers ought to be fined 10s.
apiece for their ill-regulated haste and folly,
but the miners themselves declined to back
up their executive, which promptly resigned.
The newly-elected leaders have evidently
found the blessed wheelers possessed of an
insane notion that they boss the situation —
that they, in fact, are the State mine and
the State as well, and have struck trouble
right at the start. Probably it is necessary
for a mine to have “wheelers”—until some-
one devises a mechanical means of shifting
newly-hewn coal —and as obstreperous lads
can neither be smacked like boys nor argued
with like men it looks as though a deadlock
had arrived. There is no sound reason, how-
ever, why a few of the miners could not
assist their mates to do their work
by taking the wheelers’ places till the
latter's spasm of cantankerousness is over.
A wheeler’s pay is not to be sneezed at, even
by an adult; and by shifting themselves they
could probably earn as much as their coal-
hewing mates. Anyhow, a gang could co-
operate and whack the proceeds. Mean-
time, it would be a soothing circumstance if
some of these 900 miners who were losing
some thousands per week would explain
exactly what they expected to gain by the
whole foolishness. The public, which owns
the mine, is losing heavily through the re-
peated spells of idleness, and a continuance
thereof means the absolute shutting down of
the undertaking. That again means a
term of unemployment for the miners and
probable subsequent employment by Private
Enterprise, with worse wages and no better
treatment. These same miners hacked
up the wheelers in their contumacious con-
duct ; they flouted their own officers in
their honest attempt to control the lads —
now what do they get out of it all?
The Labor* factions in Maoriland continue
to embrace each other with all the fervor of
loaded bulldogs. Thus J. T. Paul, as repre-
senting the Trades Hall crowd, on “Pro-
fessor” Mills, of Milwaukee (George
Washington’s country), organiser for the
Federation of Labor :
It is a strange coincidence that every Labor
organisation in M.L. up to and including the United
Labor Party, which employed Mr. Mills as or-
gnniscr, found its balance on the wrong side of the
ledger when balancing time came:—
Mills, as representing the other side, on
Paul :
For two years Mills was employed by certain
Labor organisations in M.L. with which Mr. Paul was
himself associated. During that time. .. .Mr. Mills
earned in writing or speaking, and entirely apart
from the funds of the party, all he ever received,
and contributed from his own funds over £2OO in
the payment of accounts authorised, approved and
audited by those organisations; and repayment
promised. The payment has not' been made. The
records do not contain any item of personal contri-
bution to these national funds by Mr. Paul. The same
cannot be said of his friend McLaren. McLaren
did promise a shilling a week, and he kept up the
payment regularly and faithfully for three weeks in
succession.
When the mail left McLaren was earn-
estly sharpening his fangs on the kerbstone.
That curious old superstition, about the
necessity, on high moral grounds, to ear-
mark any revenue derived from the totalisa-
tor for charitable purposes, has been heard of
again in N.S.W. And this same unconscious
snuffle persits in other places. There is no
special ear-marking for charity of the money
derived from drink, tobacco or opium, or from
fines levied on drunks, thieves, customs-
defrauders, wife-beaters, child-beaters, sellers
of indecent photographs, assault men, bad
languagers, two-uppers, Rahabs, or em-
ployers who cheat poor people out of their
fair remuneration. The land-tax levied on
land sharks isn’t ear-marked, nor that
charged on the land whereon brothels are
built. Bookmakers’ license fees and the
license fees from gambling clubs aren’t set
aside for hospital purposes. The clothes
which the hanged man doesn’t want any
longer are never sold for the special benefit
of some good cause. Yet whenever the
honest, harmless old tote is mentioned,
shocked persons say the thing is impossible
unless the tainted profits are set aside for
charity. Now which combination of book-
makers finds the money to organise and pay
for all this shock? And what kind of a
beastly thing is charity if it can take the
money which is too unclean to be used for
any other purpose —even for building a gaol?
Dear Bulletin, —Major W. “Karri” Davis,
an Australian by birth, but a South African
as regards experience, recently told the Mel-
bourne Argus that the only way to develop
the Northern Territory was by the importa-
tion of Chinamen. It is rather a pity the
Major didn’t go more deeply into this inter-
esting subject. The Northern Territory
has Chinamen. It is the one Chinese pro-
vince of the Commonwealth. Taking Aus-
tralia and Tasmania as a whole, there are
1175 colored folk in every 100,000 inhabi-
tants, and the proportions range from 412
in Tasmania, 453 in S.A., and 580 in Vic-
toria, to 57,160 in the Territory. The
Territory doesn’t own 100,000 inhabitants,
of course, but these are the proportions. It
is the one place where the Asiatic has been
encouraged, where the Chow has been pam-
pered, and where the blessed colored toiler
forms the majority of the population. It
is Australia’s heroic experiment along what
Major “Karri” Davis and Bruce Smith
and other folk of their kind allege is the
road to salvation. The result so far hasn’t
amounted to much; in fact, the Territory
hasn’t boomed, nor has it salvationed. The
capital city is a filthy agglomeration of tin
huts —the one capital which the Australian
is ashamed to show to a visitor—and that
capital is especially the Chinese centre. The
interior hasn’t been opened up. The rich
mines, after much Chinese gold-digging, are
a failure. Hardly one shaft has more than
scratched the surface. Agriculture is about
as dead as Pharaoh—but then it never was
alive like Pharaoh. The Chow has had
his chance for something like 40 years, and
the only decent things in the Territory are
those which the handful of white men have
created. Now a lot of people fancy that
the hope of the country lies in building a
railway to connect it with the nearest white
cities, and pouring in white settlers, and
thus putting an end to the long and un-
profitable Chow preponderance.—Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollab.
+
“Rabbo”: “Pick” (B. 29/1/T4) holds forth
in the right strain when he declares that
something should be done with regard to the
exisHntr conditions on the Bibbenluke
(N.S.W.) Closer Settlement Resumption
Area. Certainly something should be done,
and that “something” is to drag our State
Government (esneciall.v Works Minister
Griffith) over the coals, for giving unreli-
able promises with regard to the construc-
tion of the second section of the Cooma-
Bombala railway. The original survey, as
“Pick” points out, was through the centre
of the resumed area, and to substantiate his
remarks re extra cost of fences I may say
that I personally know one of the settlers
(not to mention others) on this land who
Decentralisation.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There will, I think, be a pronouncement before
very long relative to the Government's decentralisa-
tion proposals.— Minister Carmichael.
Behold the State of New South Wales!
It sitteth upon the Great Sea,
It hath five mighty ports,
Yea, five great cities by the waves.
Every one of them is at the end of a rail-
way,
Every one of them is full of ships,
The merchantmen go to, and fro,
Wheat and wool are brought to the mart,
Yea, beef and mutton and tallow and cheese
are therein;
For the country groweth mightily,
And hath five great upon the sea.
These things have I seen in a vision of the
night,'
But when I am awake Sydney sitteth alone,
She sitteth alone by the sea,
Save for the companionship of Newcastle,
And Newcastle mattereth not a dump,
For she is but as the mouth of a coalscuttle
And as a pond where men may drown cats.
Yet are the five great ports promised,
The Labor party hath sworn that they shall
be,
The leaders have written it upon paper,
They have told it to all them that vote,
They have said it a second time and a third,
Yea, they have said it on 1476 occasions,
And some of the occasions were many years
ago.
What aileth them that they do nothing?
Is not the time ripe?
Yea, the time is very ripe!
Sydney is as one oyster shell filled with 14
oysters,
As one hen sitting upon 217 eggs,
As a curate that hath on 19 collars,
As a fool person that tryeth to bathe in a
quart bottle,
As an acre of ground that crowdeth itself
into a garbage tin,
As 12 aldermen that shelter from the rain
under a clothes line.
Yea, the time is very ripe!
Call ye to them that sit in high places,
That draw screws for that they say
And thereafter quickly forget to do.
Say ye, the railway goeth abroad,
It gathereth spoil of all the State,
It draggeth all things to Sydney;
There are ports to the north empty,
There are ports to the south silent,
The railway goeth past them to Sydney,
The State groweth sick with waiting!
Get a move on!
Act!
Do something!
The Time IS RIPE!
Lo, a voice from the high places,
It speaketh softly in the ear !
“Yea, the time is a little ripe.
It groweth riper at an early date,
It will be quite ripe before long,
The season is backward, yet we are sure
that it will really ripen.”
What talk is this from the high places?
Lo, three years ago they said the time was
ripe,
Six years ago they said it was too ripe,
Nine years ago they said it had ripened
long ago!
Speak unto them that they do something.
Speak unto them that they do it NOW!
Lo, again, the voice from the high places !
“Be patient and wait a little longer;
We have begun to consider the matter;
We have written a letter about it;
We mentioned it only last week ;
We shall go thoroughly into the question ;
In a little time we shall speak about it quite
loudly,
Yea, in a time, or two times, or any old
time
Your ears shall hear
A PRONOUNCEMENT” (I think).
Behold the State of New South Wales!
Sydney sitteth upon the middle of it,
Yea, she sitteth alone by the sea;
There are ports to the north empty,
There are ports to the south silent,
And the Labor party hath sworn a great
oath
That the time is ripe when they should be
opened.
Yet will something be done (I think) !
The matter is not forgotten (I think) !
The subject shall have consideration (I
think) !
If we wait long enough,
And are quite patient.
And don’t make a fuss.
And behave very nicely,
And keep as silent as possible,
Somebody will say something about it (I
think)
Just before next election (I thinkl !
N.S.W.
GEOBGE STBEET.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS —From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s* Week.
THE'DUDLEY”
CONCERTINA
ORGAN- NED CONCERTINAS IN
HANDSOME BOXES.
No. 4. Rosewood style tops, 10
German Silver Keys, 8-fold Bel-
lows. Post free 10/6
No. 5. Rosewood style tops, with
Trumpet holes, 10 Bone Keys, 8-
fold Bellows, with clasp. Post
free 15/-
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS OF ALL KINDS.
Send for Catalogues.
A. P. SYKES,
272 LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
BARKED YOUR SHINS?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment; it will
take away all the pain and stiffness, and you will
forget all about it. Price, Is. 6d. and 3s. Obtain-
able everywhere.*
Death.
LEEDS. —September 9, 1913, died at San-
tiago, Chile, South America, Robert
Stuart, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. J. S.
LEEDS, Hill Street, Orange, N. S.
Wales, Australia.
Government Notices.
Applications for the appointment of
PROFESSOR OF MATHEMATICS
at the Royal Military College will be re-
ceived up to 30th APRIL, 1914. Informa-
tion respecting the. appointment can be
obtained from the Secretary, Department of
Defence, Melbourne; the Commandant, Royal
Military College; or the Military Comman-
dant, Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart. Applications should be addressed
to the Commandant, Royal Military College,
Duntroon, Federal Territory.
HEIGHT Increased
If you are not over 40 years of age I can
Increase Your Height by from two to three
inches within three months.
No Medicines. Ordinary Habits Retained.
No appliances or drugs of any kind are used,
and it is impossible for my system to cause
overstrain or to injure the health in any
way. On the contrary, my students are in-
variably astonished at the tremendous improve-
ment in their health which my course pro-
duces.
All the time required to be devoted is 10
minutes morning and evening.
I do not ask you to make any drastic altera-
tion in your diet, your smoking, or your mode
of life.
GROW TALL, MY SYSTEM WILL
SHOW YOU HOW.
Send two penny stamps with your name and
address, for further particulars.
HUGH GIBSON,
Specialist in the
Increase of
Height,
Department 123, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
had to put up miles of posts and sundries
on his own round the boundary, thus fencing
off the railway line (or where it was to be).
Having thus railed off the “line,” he natur-
ally received no compensation from the
owner of the adjoining block for his share
and use of the fence, but, instead, he, in his
turn, had to fence off the “line” on the other
side. This meant double expense to both
settlers, and then to think that Griffith
should choose another route makes one won-
der what he’ll do next. If Ma’s Govern-
ment lias any spark of conscience about it
(and that I doubt) it should compensate
those settlers who have gone to such unneces-
sary expense (through no fault of their
own), and who took up (under the impres-
sion that they were to have a railway at
hand), land which even at best was not a
too-encouraging venture.
■ ♦ ——————
Exodus from the Territory.
That is the common heading nowadays, and
the exodus from the hot, damp scrap at the
northern end of the Territory is bad. There
is no news of any exodus from the great,
cool tableland further south, but the table-
land is a different matter. The hot, damp
scrap is the Territory in the opinion of
people who .simply look in at Port Darwin
as the steamer passes, and perspire for a
day. and see the wreckage and misery that
have been made of one of Australia’s grand-
est ports by Australia’s one big experiment
in the way of Chinese settlement, and say
feebly that what is wanted is colored immi-
gration, and consume two awful Chow
drinks, and burn one horrible Mongolian
cigar, and then leave. This mere fragment of
the land, where the great heats and the great
heathen and the passing tourist are, consti-
tutes the bane of the big Federal property.
It has no business to pose as the whole place
—as the entire waggon and the complete
yellow dog underneath —but political con-
siderations keep it in that situation. The
bargain made when S.A. handed the Terri-
tory over to the Commonwealth was that the
line from Adelaide and Port Augusta to the
North should be finished. That would have
opened up the cool, lofty and fairly-well-
watered inland country, and made Middle
Australia a province suitable for white set-
tlement. Also it would have given it the
shortest possible line of communication with
the nearest big city, and made an end of the
ancient lonesomeness. But there was, un-
happily, a lion in the way. Certain noisy
folk in N.S.W. and Queensland desired that
the treaty should be broken, and that the
line should connect first of all with Sydney
and Brisbane instead of Adelaide; and
Andrew Fisher, as a Queenslander, felt
the same way. Incidentally Joseph Cook,
as a New South Waler, feels similarly. On
both sides there is a beastly resemblance.
It was impossible to be honest without losing
votes, in the two big eastern States, or to
be dishonest without losing votes in the
middle State. So the railway, on which the
safety of the northern half of Australia de-
pends, was hung un indefinitely. Nobody was
either honest or dishonest —only somnolent.
But fisher showed his energy by sending a
horde of expensive officials round by the
interminable sea journey, to moulder at the
disconnected Chinese town of Darwin, and
to infest it for no purpose. And Cook
showed his economy by recalling a lot of
these officials. It might have been a mutual
arrangement. The first movement was the
Awakening of the North. The second was
the Exodus from the North. Both were
good advertising stunts. Neither touched
A i .i? U m tloa breaking up the separateness
of the lerritory. Neither so much as looked
at the question of settlement—in fact, the
Darwin Land Board recently reported that
no anangements had yet been made to ren-
der any land available for settlement.
Neither got within 100 miles of the
an area about as large as
K.k.W., and with a much better cli-
mate than much of N.S.W.—where pro-
giess should be started on a large
scale. It was a mere pottering back and
toward of expensive atoms —one politician
sending them to loaf at the other end of
Nowhere, in order to show his desire to push
the public interests, while the other one
recalled them from loafing in the same place,
in order to show his desire to save the
public money. There was no real move-
ment, but there was a great removal of
atoms.
The Financial Peer.
A pleasant slired of hypocrisy was the
debate by the British House of Peers upon
the alleged purchase of titles in Great Brit-
ain. Everybody knows that titles are pur-
chased, and many of the peers who took
part in the debate had doubtless bought
their dignities with cash down, or their
fathers had bought them and passed them
along. There is a regular tariff, and the
sale of honors is the chief support of the
party funds—the funds of both parties. The
game, however, has certain rules, and isn’t
exactly like a nigger insurrection in Hayti.
A rich man whose character looks as if it
would last his life-time sends in his cheque
to help his particular political crowd through
its troubles at next election, and he is care-
fully remembered when the chance arrives.
He must have some semblance of respecta-
bility and permanence, else titles would fall
into disrepute and become unsaleable.
Thus Dooley’s cheque was regretfully re-
turned, it being discovered that Hooley was
a howler who would get into jail some day
—which he did. Barney Barnato’s con-
tribution would probably have been declined
with great sorrow, but that sudden garish
millionaire went melancholy mad amid his
gold and his palaces and his fine raiment
(he was said to own the most wonderful
kimona in Christendom), and committed,
suicide before he had time to be an appli-
cant at the door of the aristocracy. Jabez
Balfour, a most dignified member of the
House of Commons, was just about to be
fixed up with a peerage when the bottom
fell out of his banks and building societies,
whereupon lie fled to Argentina and con-
cealed himself in a brewery. As a general
thing, the King’s Birthday or New Year’s
“honors” are half-and-half. About 50 per
cent. of. the recipients are soldiers, states-
men, scientists and other deserving cases.
The rest are rich, elderly, pious traders and
dealers, who pay to be elevated to a place
among the Uppish Classes. When a
Kitchener goes to the House of Lords he
can easily carry a pair of grocers on his
back, and when a Roberts or a Morley
gets a step up he can drag one or two plain
money-grubbers along with him. The game
has been played so long and so strenuously
by Conservatives and Liberals alike that it
is a very tough and hardy peer who would
deliberately fall over the sleeping dog. To
start an inquiry in this year ’34 of the new-
est century that ever was is almost akin to
asking half the British peerage how its
grandfather escaped penal servitude.
Good Old London.
“Exile” writes:—
Three years ago I was out in London, marooned
for my shortcomings in the most unfriendly and
inhospitable city on earth. Loandon is a nightmare,
a mausoleum, a sepulchre. To an Australian it is
the most detestable town up in Europe. The con-
trasts between the extreme wealth and the awful
poverty which stalk the streets side by side depress
and discourage the sun-loving, heat-worsliipping Aus-
tralian who calls no man overlord, and is a vassal to
none. The railway men had struck for better
wages than 30s. to 255. a week, and all transport was
held up.
Directly the strike was declared I went and lived
in the East End, that diabolical ghetto which so
effectively disgraces London and its rulers and people.
The strike was on at midday on Friday, and finished
on Monday afternoon. By Saturday, at five o’clock,
there was not a scrap or scrag on the meat barrows
in Mile End Road, and not an ounce of bread for
sale. You have no conception of what East End
meat is like. It is not catsmeat even ;it is worse than
that. I verily believe a Cantonese pong would refuse
to eat it, and he loves offal. News had passed round
that there was a strike and no food was being
delivered on the Saturday. From the cellars and
the garrets there was a fierce rush of gaunt, ugly,
unkempt humans, anxious to secure the one meal
a day which most of them put up with. I have
never seen a more dreadful-looking mob. The rush
for the spoil was remarkable and soon over. The
alleged bread and meat vanished, and the starving
had to be content to buy dried herrings, bloaters,
sprats and all the other abominable fish on which
the poorer classes subsist in England. Soon there was
not a bit of salted or smoked fish left in Commercial-
road or the Minories. On Sunday there was nothing
to eat on the barrows in Petticoat-lane. If it
wasn’t for Ldpdon’s 22,000 police that Sunday would
have been the date of a riot.
And some day that mob of sans-culottes will get
an extra meal and find a leader like Lansbury or
Larkin. They’ll march west*, and, when thev reach
the Mansion House, the strekm will split in two—-
one half going up Holborn and the other up Fleet-
street and the Strand. And guillotines will be plenti-
ful in Trafalgar Square.
Here is the summation. Fancy any rich nation
permitting itself to remain in the position of having
only three weeks’ food on hand for the consumption
of 45 million people! No race in this or any pre-
vious civilisation has ever stood in such imminent
danger of entire surrender as the people of the United
Kingdom to-day. They can’t shoot, or ride, or feed
themselves, which causes me to thank God every
morning that my father left Scotland and came here:
He did it for two reasons—the climate was bad and
the tucker worse!
“G.V.W.”: The Brown froth from the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.’s plantations
in Fiji is finding its way into Maoriland in
an increasing quantity. The law to keep it
off and the administration of the law are
about as effective as a wire fence in keeping
off mosquitoes. In Auckland and Welling-
ton the bulk of the fruit barrows are
attached to a silent discolored alien. Other
blotches are; dribbling over the landscape un-
loading coal along the railways and supply-
ing cheap, humble, deep-thinking farm labor,
and great is the joy of Cocky thereat. In
places they are becoming a fixture like the
Public Debt, and are intermingling with the
Maoris. A weird and eminently worthless
biped will result. Two dark strangers ap-
peared to answer a summons for debt the
other day up Waikato way. The evidence
showed that one had 344 acres of land and
the other owned £9OO worth —area not
stated. If Maoriland is to be kept clean
Premier Massey will have to sit down with
great earnestness and weave a much finer
net than the existing alien obstruction.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Royal Divoice.”
P .alack “The Land of Nod.”
Adelphi “Allah's Orchard.”
Little Theatre “The Great Adventure.”
Tivoli McIntosh s Vaudeville Co.
Nationa:. Amphitheatre Brennan-Fuller’s Vaudeville.
r vrn-v Spencer’s Pictures.
Claciarium & Olympia. West’s Pictures.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures.
White City Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Come Over Here.”
Princess’s “Bally of Ballymore.”
King’s “On Our Selection.”
Royal “Madame X.”
Tivoli McIntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace... West's Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
♦
“THE LAND OF NOD.”
[For The Bulletin.]
Along at the Palace “The Land of Nod”
Is calling the Sydneyite to plod
From his books, or his pen, or his brickman’s
hod,
From the billiard cue, or the fishing rod,
To watch the skin-clad girls that wad-
Dle up on the plank where the tango’s trod
(Some of them gasping like landed cod).
Bilanderson’s asking the church Sy nod
Around in its gaiters one night to tod-
Dle. Each will be handed a hefty clod
To shy at the show if it’s over the odd-
S ; Bill is as calm as a bean in a pod.
“I’ll bet you,” he drawls, “that the said
Sy nod
Won’t cloud the view with a single sod —
Have you seen the legs in ‘The Land of
Nod’ ”?
N.s.w. Billy B.
Next Wednesday the White City, Syd-
ney’s new pleasure park, will (barring
damp, floods, rain, deluge, drizzle, Scotch
mist, wet feet, rheumatism, cataract, mud,
slush, frogs, tadpoles, cloud-burst, sudden
alluvial deposit, great downpour, whales,
alligators, sharks, tidal wave, eels and sim-
ilar happenings) hold its first carnival.
Special prizes will be given (weather per-
mitting) for the most attractive costumes
(unless ruined by unforeseen meteorological
disturbance) in advertised sections (if
the advertised sections aren’t washed away.)
Wearers of fancy or historical outfits will
be admitted to all side-shows free (after
paying one shilling entrance fee and pro-
vided they are not drowned), and, from
The Bulletin’s experience of the number
and expanse of the said side-shows
competitors are urged to get into
training for the ordeal. A boat will
be kept handy to pick up those who lose their
footing. A good historical character to
assume would be that of Clarence, who had
a vision of the sea-bottom, and was after-
wards capsized into a butt of wine by
parties who are still at large—worse luck !
“ALLAH’S ORCHARD," AT THE
ADELPHI , SYDNEY.
Waring Sahib ( Cyril Mackay) and the good old
blind man (Charlie lay lor) arrange a wedding.
This week’s Sydney picture specialties:—
Crystal Palace: “A Lady of Quality,” concern-
ing a lady who masqueraded as a man. Also proving
conclusively that Wowsers are not a modern inven-
tion.
Lyric : “The Witness of the Will,” another missing
document yarn. In melodrama the property goes to
whoever can steal the will. If there is no will it
goes to the most adjacent villain, who keeps it until
denounced by the comic man. Then the matter is
submitted to the policeman at the corner, who de-
clares that the hero was unjustly convicted, gives
him a free pardon, hands him back the estates, sen-
tences the villain to unbounded imprisonment, and
resumes the even tenor of his job.
Colonial: “A Million in Jewels.” Act one, a
princess with jewels worth one million; a villain
with his eyes on the jewels, and a Yankee young man.
Act two, one princess, a Yank and a corpse.
Empress : “Whimsical Threads of Destiny,” being
further evidence that it is quite time all villains
threw in the towel.
West's Glaciarium and Olympia: “The Curse of
Greed,” 3000 ft. long, with a sensation every six
inches.
Spencer's Lyceum: “The Three Musketeers”—
Athos, Aramis, Porthos and D’Artagnan. And how
Dumas made these four into three is quite unknown.
Incidentally, D’Artagnan was a Gascon. The French
kingdom was saved in the time of Louis “the Spider”
by the dirtiness of the Gascons. Their Burgundian
allies refused to share the same camp with them
when they were jointly besieging Paris because the
Gascons smelled too badly, and this caused a rift in
the lute of the revolt. Spencer’s people ought to
dwell on this point.
** * *
The condition of the patient at Sydney
Criterion remains the same. Every evening
about eight his temperature rises danger-
ously, but by 11 it is normal again.
This week will see the last of “David Gar-
rick” at Sydney Little Theatre. Ou Monday
next Arnold Bennett’s delightfully natural
comedy, “The Great Adventure,” will be re-
vived.
* * s[c *
Sydney Royal is being made ready for
Joseph and his numerous but unremunerative
Brethren. This play, by Louis Napoleon
Parker — not, as erroneously reported, by
Augustus Pompey Marlborough Hannibal
Scipio Smith —is to pervade the land of
Egypt on Saturday. Egypt is a tough old
place, and will probably bear up.
The Prince of Baroda committing silicice
nightly in “Allah’s Orchard.”
Dolores Vallecita’s troup of trained leo-
pards at Sydney Tivoli —Melbourne has a
Tivoli now, also Adelaide, and there will
soon be Tivolis at Gosford, Birdsville, Thar-
gomindah, Bruthen, Gawler and Mullum-
bimby—provides a turn that has the one
great advantage of being out of the ordinary
run of vaudeville turns. Still The Bulle-
tin isn’t going to encourage anyone else to
risk it for a living. The lady has, up to
now, perfect control over the five beasts, and
though this pleasant state of affairs may
not continue, everyone who likes a combina-
tion of daring and entertainment knows
where to book seats the present. We are
here to-day and eaten to-morrow, but suffi-
cient for the moment is the animal thereof.
Harry Diver, still remembered by hardened
playgoers as one of the best Iagos ever seen
in Australia, “comes back” most successfully
as the suspect in the third degree sketch
“The Sacrifice.” Graus Bros., balancers,
the Golden Athlones, and the Two Bobs
(last nights) are also worth taking a note
of. It is reported that Graus Bros, will
retire shortly and become joint Treasurers
to the N.S.W. Government. It requires a
balancer badly. Tfiese people are also called
equilibrists, and anybody with even a shred
of equilibrium about him is wanted in Syd-
ney politics.
Julius Knight will figure in “A Royal
Divorce” for another week at Her Majesty’s.
Sydney. And then the pantomime will
arrive, and the harassed scribe who is to
blame for this paragraph will be faced with
the job of saying it is there in a different
way, every week for three months. Also he
will try to say something different from the
remarks of The Bulletin’s Melbourne
representative, who has been trying to be
something equally different ior about an
equal period. Consequently the premises
will be so full of difference that the outer
walls will bulge.
To begin with, “Allah’s Orchard,” which
happened at the Sydney Adelphi on Satur-
day night wants pruning. After that it
wants pruning some more. Then it can be
reminded that it is too much like all its
bellowdramatic predecessors, also that vari-
ous parts are very similar to portions of
other plays that weren’t melodrama. Then
several acts of it might be left to die a
natural death, and if there is any more
energy on the premises the low comedians
might be shot —not that it’s altogether their
fault; they do very well under the circum-
stances, but there’s more humor in the aver-
age cab accident than there is in the whole
show. Even the villain is a very tame one
for the Adelphi, the only charge that can be
aimed at him being that he ran away with
the hero’s girl, and most professional heroes
deserve that. The new piece is a mixture of
English and Asiatic, and the scenery, on


MAKE HIM FEEL YOUNG.
“I had pains in the chest and stomach, which the
doctor said were due to indigestion,” writes Mr. E.
Healey, saddler, Raurimu, N.Z. “As his medicine
did me no good, I was advised to try Chamberlain’s
Tablets, and did so. I got immediate relief, and
am now never without a bottle in my room. I am
a very old man, but Chamberlain’s Tablets make me
feel well and young.”*
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
7th to 15th APRIL, 1914.
Greatest Australian Carnival
£7OOO PRIZES £7OOO
COLOSSAL EXHIBITION HALL.
Miles of Horses Acres of Cattle High-class Sheep and Pigs.
Enormous Displays of Produce and Manufactures.
BIGGEST PARADES OF STOCK in the Universe.
EXCURSION FARES FROM ALL PARTS.
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Keep it
On Hand
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS.
Missing: Friends.
NEXT-OF-KIN WANTED.
In the Estate of John Brown Williams,
deceased.
SUM of money is held for Mrs.
JIL FRANCES SIDVERLOCK, a
daughter of the above deceased, last heard
of in New South Wales.
Anyone knowing of her whereabouts is
requested to kindly communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Wellington,
New Zealand.
A Federal Detective Agency.
J. CANTLON
(late Victorian Detective Police) under-
takes Commercial, Confidential, Next of Kin,
Missing Friend and Matrimonial Enquiries,
Searches, Surveillance.
49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
HE PUBLIC TRUSTEE for the
Northern Territory, Darwin, desires
information in regard to the relatives of the
late GARRETT EDMUND BARRY, who
died at Coomarie Springs, near Tanami, in
June, 1910.
ESLIE GORDON, Resident of St.
Kilda and Shepparton, Vic,, last heard
Queanbeyan. N.S.W. Write SOSS, South
Coast, N.S.W. Anxious.
the whole, is excellent; and the play, as bel-
lowdramas go, is well up to standard. Cyril
Mackay, as the hero whose girl changes her
mind in favor of the Indian Prince, isn t
desperately overworked, but makes the most
of what is always a thankless part. Vivian
Edwards, the Indian Prince aforesaid, and
the alleged villain of the show, fills the part
capitally, though at times he isn’t sufficiently
Asiatic and treacherous. Nellie Fergusson,
who makes her reappearance after a long
spell, is easily the top-notcher, firstly as the
fickle girl who throws up the old love for the
new, and lajer as the Princess. Pearl Smith,
a long-lost-but-found-in-the-last-act girl, also
comes in for a good word.
On with the dance! The big Imperial
Theatre, at the shank of William-street,
Sydney, used successively as a skating rink
and picture palace, has now been briefed
as a fashionable dancing salon. Large
and expensive alterations are being made for
the luxury of the Most Exclusive and Fas-
tidious. The mere bloque and bloquess have
as much chance of gaining entrance to the
“Salon de Luxe” as to the Jewish Wharf-
lumpers’ Union.
The main props of the National Amphi-
theatre’s claim to a fair share of the swag
set aside in Sydney for entertainment are
Clement May (who supplies representations
of Dickens’s characters so true to line that
the author would find his inanimate char-
acterisations outdone), Josephine Gassman
(and her joyous piccaninnies), Weston’s Liv-
ing Models (good job those girls didn’t live
in George ll.’s 90-mile-a-minute reign) and
the Livermore Animated Doll. There are
other good turns, but those mentioned ought
to attract custom without assistance.
The Star Pictures, run by Coffey and
Powell in the little house that used to be
Adelaide Tivoli, lately put up a commendable
novelty in a story locally filmed, from city to
beach. It is a farcical thing, but may
lead to better; anyway, the praiseworthy
idea is there. Wondergraph Cos. has brought
back “From Manger to Cross” as a Lenten
attraction. The Pav. has “Satan’s Castle,”
a moral drama with some devilish good
effects in it, and West’s are working out
per film the truly Yankee—with a side-
light on Melbourne police—“ Third Degree.”
The Tivoli continues to give successful
Tango-teas, the alleged riskiness of the
underwear-parades being tempered by a lady-
like discretion. Clemons and Dean do their
quaint song-and-dance in the evening bill,
and Talleur Andrews has brought his fine
baritone with him. On the other hand, an
alleged revue staged by Mclntosh on the
Adelaide Oval has dragged along rather list-
lessly, probably because it was not really a
revue at all, but merely a ragtime medley.
The King’s brings in the Carpos brothers to
help a good bill that needed strengthening
on the athletic side. Leonard and Willard
supply some positively “fierce” American
slang, which gives a fresh effect to the ordi-
nary cross-talk of their land. The Dandies,
at the Exhibition Gardens, have exchanged
one or two artists with Branscombe’s other
companies elsewhere.
Clement May's extract of Dickens at the
Sydney Nash.
“Jean Sibi” writes :
Melbourne Hibernians are maddened at Hal Gye's
Bulletin’s caricature of Allen Doone and a few* of
his merry men —or, to put it more accurately, a
few Hibernian supporters of Doone allege that every
Hibernian in Victoria is seething with rage at the
effort of Gye. The astonishing Doone, grasping the
advt. with both hands and all his teeth, as usual,
said that the “cartoon” was “a malicious and unjust
libel, besides being grossly offensive. No one,” con-
tinued Allen, “is better able to appreciate a joke
than an Irishman, but when it comes to holding up
his country and his people to downright ridicule, it
is time he showed his displeasure.” It is in moments
like these that one realises that Doone really is
Irish —a matter in regard to which the writer has
often had doubts in view of his deplorable handling
of so-called Irish characters on the stage. It is true
that an Irishman can appreciate a joke—so long as
it is not up against himself. When it is, he is the
dullest customer on record. A deputation of Irishmen
once visited Norman Lindsay and begged him to cease
drawing people of Hibernian extraction. No English,
Scotch, Welsh, Patagonian, German, Yankee, French
or other national deputation has ever visited Lindsay
for the purpose of uttering cries of reproach. An
Irish crowd went fanti the other day because the
priest in “General John Regan” was put on the
stage. This priest is a harmless—in fact, estimable
—character. There is nothing either evil or absurd
about him. Had he been presented in the form of
an outrageous burlesque—a figure akin, say, to the
Anglican person in “The Private Secretary”-—the
Irish audience might have been justified of its fury.
But it doesn’t need a genuine insult to arouse the
national ire of Hibernia. All excuses for a row are
thankfully received —more especially by slick Yankee
actors, of allegedly Irish extraction, whose scent for
a cheap advt. has been rendered almost unnaturally
acute by years of practice.
THE PANTO., AT HER MAJESTY'S,
MELBOURNE.
Chrysh-anthe-mums.
(Hie!).
Sample of Standard
Bearer.
To-night (Thursday) is the last of the
panto, at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). Mr. and
Mrs. Ali Baba, their educated moke, also the
Three Rubes and the remarkable lady who
was picked up by Percy in the park, are all
going elsewhere. In place of the panto,
comes the revue, which is entitled “Come
Over Here,” because one name is as good as
another for revue purposes. The new form
of entertainment has been somewhat local-
ised, it seems. A rumor that bald stallites
are likely to be kissed on their nakedness
during the proceedings should help to pre-
vent any public misconception of the matter
about to be considered under revue heading.
& * sk
At Melbourne Royal the intellectual drama
is getting a look in between the departure of
“Joseph” and the arrival of “Madame X.”
Two performances of “The Doctor’s
Dilemma” were promised for Tuesday and
Wednesday, and to-night (Thursday) the
Repertory Co. will do “Rutherford and Son.”
* * * *
. “Madame X,” for the first time in Aus-
tralia, brings the “Within the Law” Co.
back to the Royal in a play which has a
great part for the heroine and a rich assort-
ment of shocks and thrills for the audience.
Miss Muriel Starr will sip and suffer in
the name part. Morrison, who slew the
stool pigeon in the previous melodrama, will
himself be rightly and properly slain ih this
instance.
* :!•- * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the allotted 12
nights, of “Sweet County Kerry” will end
on Friday, and then a revival of “Barry of
Barrymore” will carry Doone through the
remainder of his season.
* * * *
“On Our Selection” (which, by the way,
is not effusively complimentary to Australia)
is booming- again at Melbourne King’s,
therefore the staging of the new play from
America is postponed until further notice.
The broad comedy of the “Selection”
accounts for all the rush to the pay-boxes
these times. In the hroad tragedy section of
Bert Bailey’s popular show there are oppor-
tunities for stronger acting than is put into
it by the four persons chiefly concerned.
Lennon, as Cranky Jim, gets no blood-curdling
effects from his assassination of Carey
junior (Bellairs), whose fatal inter-
view with Kate (Miss Oakley) is very
feebly and mechanically conducted on both
sides. And when the corpse comes to be
discovered by Carey, senior (Kensington),
his paternal grief and horror are no more
convincing than the dissembled emotion of
Kate aforesaid. The lurid melodrama scene
in the Rudd family comedy is an item of
no financial importance to the management
apnarentl.y, but it might as well be played for
all it ought to be worth.
Florence Turner, of the Vita graph Co., is
now at West’s, Melbourne, pursuing the
career of a private detective. On Saturday
she recovered an abducted feme 1 ", and did
it, moreover, with a skill and ’ -tog that
amnly justified the look of s. r " ity with
which her features were disgni- !. “The
Leading Lady” disclosed how a s'nr actress,
though suspected of frivolity, rag-time danc-
ing and late hours, is suddenly discovered to
be true to the bloke who spars up for her
food- and hat-bills. As regards “The Ad-
ventures of an Actress’s Jewels,” it is
enough to say that they are the usual old
adventures. Like the lost will and the
Lost Woman the Lost Jewel is ever with
us on the stage.
* * * S:
The Tom Davis motorists, who tear
around in mid-air beneath the spur of a
large salary, are giving a sensational. turn
to the proceedings at Melbourne Tivoli this
w r eek. Also, Ellis of Rose and Ellis is cheer-
fully risking his neck in his barrel act, while
his slick lady accomplice becomes a figure of
droll unrest. On the musical and vocal
side The Bulletin feels favorably dis-
posed towards Jack Vincent, the tenor, and
Sam Stern, the Yid comedian, but continues
to regard the Five Merry Youngsters with
mild displeasure.
AT POVERTY POINT.
London papers mention the matrimonial engage-
ment of Cicely Courtneidge, the Australian-born
daughter of “Bobbie” Courtneidge, to Jack Hulbert,
a Cambridge undergraduate who went straight from
college to a leading part in “The Pearl Girl” at the
Shaftesbury. Their combined ages cannot amount
to more than 43, and their engagement is the natural
result of stage love-making, assisted by duets. Cicely
Courtneidge made her first appearance in mummery
at Melbourne Princess’s, as one of the juvenile fairies
in the “Midsummer Night’s Dream” which her father
produced for George Musgrove when he returned to
Australia on a holiday trip. She has grown into
a quite beautiful girl and a charming comic-opera
artist, with a full equipment of qualifications.
“O Hana San” writes all the way from 32 Coram-
street, Russell Sauare, London, W.C., England
(knock off here for refreshments), to ask The
Bulletin to warn all managers against using or
imitating the Japanese signs, effects, furniture,
crockery or fried fish appearing in her act. Ten
millions of managers are accordingly warned.
P.S.: The Bulletin doesn’t know whether “O Hana
San” has a wooden leg, but, if she has, no imitation
will be permitted. Any manager with a wooden
leg will be prosecuted for infringement of copyright.
Pianist Goll must have felt the emptiness of Mel-
bourne’s musical “culture” when he took the Town
Hall platform the other night to play the piano to a
mere handful' of listeners scattered among the 2000
seats. It is poor comfort for a lonely performer to
be told next day that what the audience lacked in
numbers it made up for in enthusiasm, etc. The fact
is that no Australian city is big enough or sufficiently
lacking in places of entertainment to provide a
crowd of paying public for a resident pianist who
announces a series of recitals. Not many people will
trouble to go and hear a good artist for his art’s
sake, when he has lost his novelty—and they have to
pay for seats. A pianist, to draw a crowd, must
come as a stranger on the boom ticket. Even the
notoriety of a Paderewski would soon lose its finan-
cial value in Melbourne if he lived there and taught
at a local conservatorium. Edward Goll is one of
the very best pianists going, perhaps, but for the
comparatively few people who are interested in his
playing the Town Hall is much too accommodating
these times. A small hall and a general admission
charge of two “bob” is what the musical public
wants.
The. Paths parlor cinematograph is now fairly estab-
lished as a practical means of bringing the sights of
the day into every home. Recently an operator
rushed around Melbourne with the' little camera and
took a series of moving photos which were repro-
duced on the “home” screen at the depot three or
four hours later.
“C. Ockney”: “A Pair of Silk Stockings” was on
February 21 staged at the London Criterion, which,
remembering the dear old “Pink Dominoes” days, is
just the place for them —I mean, it. On the same
night, “The Joy-Ride Lady” was announced for pro-
duction at the New. London is a-going it, as loole
used to say. In the latter piece (a comic opera from
the French, which was originally adapted from the
German), Rutland Barrington, the old Savoyard, has
a part. Rutland, by the way, has been telling the
public in the Sunday Referee that one reason for
the big profits made out of the Gilbert and Sullivan
operas at the start was the modest salary-list. He,
of course, was the original Vicar in “The Sorcerer,”
and the Captain in “Pinafore,” and he received £4 a
week for the former and £6 for the latter part.
Well, lots of rude people will say that if he was
engaged as a singer he was over-paid. One night in
those early daj's Gilbert, who was in front with Sulli-
van, whispered in great agitation to his collabora-
tor. “Good heavens! What’s the matter with Bar-
rington? lie’s singing in tune l”
The Gaud Mayor of Newcastle (Eng.) gave a lun-
cheon lately to all the members of the theatrical
purfesh who were just then appearing in the town.
George Robey was star guest. The Mayor, in propos-
ing the health of mummery, stated that in all his
years on the bench he had never had an actor or
actress brought before him. Whereupon Robey
smiled joyfully and said “Luck!”
“Te Pana”: Tonga has advanced another stage
toward civilisation, the “movies” having found their
way into the dreamy little kingdom. The Tongan
takes to the flickers as he takes to cocoanut-milk. He
gives the delighted hand to the handsome bloque
who rescues the maiden from the Cuss with the
Wicked Eye, sniggers loud and long when the
Parisian peeler falls in the soup, dolefully hands out
the bird to “scenies,” and is great on Scripture pic-
tures. It costs him from a quarter to half a dollar
for the privilege of getting excited and working up a
thirst.
A “wordless humorist” of the Austrian persua-
sion is just now figuring largely at the London
Palace under the misleading name of Joe Jackson.
Austrian Joe appears to be quite un-English in his
modesty. As soon as he arrived in London to play
his engagement. he was asked if he would like to be
interviewed. He said, “Vait a liddle. Ve see vot
happens first ven I open.” Vot a lot of preliminary
mush paragraphs re imported mummers might be
spared to Australia if the press would only vait a
liddle and see vot happens !
Another warning to theatre orcliestrians. At the
Kingsway Theatre (London), where Arnold Bennett's
“The Great Adventure” has been booming, there is
no orchestra at all, and the soulful audiences are not
feeling the want of music between the acts.
Woe to the deadhead ! In the eye of the law
(true, it may turn out to be a dead and glassy eye)
the deadhead is a malefactor, a nuisance and an idle
and disorderly dodger. Somebody has discovered that
on Jan. 17, 1704, Queen Anne (“Brandy-faced Nan”)
issued a proclamation that “no Persons do Presume
to come into a Playhouse without Paying the Prices
established for their respective Places.” This she did
because she was anxious to put down “everything
contrarv to Religion and Good Manners in the The-
atres.” In further pursuance of this praiseworthy
object she proclaimed that “no Person of what
Qualitv soever must Presume to go behind the Scenes
or come upon the Stage either before or during the
Acting of any Play.” Any reprobates “disobeying
these Our Roval Commands will be proceeded against
as Contemners of Our Royal Authority and Disturbers
of the Publick Peace.” What the gentle Anne would
have prescribed for the Lady who brought her few
glad rags from the stage into the publick audience
during the Acting of a I’lay is too dreadful to think
of.
Somebody suggests that the “revue” practice of
bringing show girls from the stage, and landing them
among the Johnnies in the stalls, will have a power-
ful influence for moral good. It will serve to
disillusionise the simple and bring the idolatry of
stage “beauties” into ridicule. Not many of the
beauties are lovely when the glamor of the stage is
off them. And it certainly is off them when they
walk among the audience.
“Illegible”: Why don’t trained nurses
form themselves into a union—a common,
ordinary trades union—to win shorter hours-
and better pay? The nationalisation of the
medical and nursing professions is to come;
but in the meantime the life of a trained
nurse is a good deal worse than the char-
lady’s. Three years of very hard training
in a public hospital, in the course of
which dozens of girls break down;
salary ss. to 12s. a week, and in some
public hospitals, where the probationers
are carefully selected, there is no pay
whatever to start with: 1 nally, examina-
tions to pass before she can go forth to earn
her crust as “a fully qualified trained nurse.”
She may either take up private nursing or
join the staff of a private hospital. At
private nursing, except in midwifery eases,
her wage is £2 7s. 6d. per week, or less.
Very often she is cook and housemaid as
well as nurse; her working hours anything
from 16 to 18 a day; and she is lucky if
she gets six uninterrupted hours of sleep.
Out of that £2 7s. 6d. or less per week she
has to pay £1 per month for “Home fees,”
and the washing bill is heavy. If she joins
a private hospital, as staff nurse, her pay
is £1 per week. For this she generally works
from 6 a.m. till 8 p.m., with two hours off
during the day. She may have as many as
seven private patients to attend to; and, as
these patients are paying heavy fees
to the hospital and the doctor, they
expect “every attention” from the over-
worked nurse. Seven sick people to look
after for 2s. 10id. a day of 12 working
hours ! Would a man go through such train-
ing, acquire such skill, and do so many
hours of often-arduous work for the money?
And if a man wouldn’t, why should a
woman?
FORTY EXTRA GENTLEMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FORTY EXTRA GENTLEMEN REQUIRED.
Apply Stage Door, Theatre Royal, 11 a.m. TO-DAY
(FRIDAY).
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
—Theatrical advertisement.
“My daddy’s a gentleman, too!”
-—Refrain of pathetic ballad.
It’s hard to get a plumber to repair a leaky sink,
And the bill he sends in later. is enough to make
you blink ;
While the carpenter (when captured) is a rare and
precious beast,
And your prayers and objurgations do not move
him in the least.
Then, the stevedore and stoker and the lady full of
gloom '
AVho’s prepared to do some scrubbing and propel a
lazy broom
Must be chased and wooed and offered just whatever
is desired.
But it’s quite a diff’rent story—-
Oh, a very diff’rent story
When it’s merely “EXTRA GENTLEMEN RE-
QUIRED!”
It takes time to learn the plumbings—any bloke might
wipe a joint,
If he knows the right ingredients that the trade
used to anoint.
But a gentleman (God bless him!) is an extra-
special line
Which no bright, ambitious plumber-bloke can hope
to e’er outshine.
Yet the gent grows in profusion anywhere you choose
to dwell,
While the plumber when lie’s wanted is as scarce as
ice in Hell.
You would die for lack of plumbers if a snappy
ad. you fired,
But the gentle “FORTY EXTRA”—
(Very humble “FORTY EXTRA”!)
Will come bounding when they hear the shout,
“REQUIRED!”
N.s.w.
JUST ONE GENTLEMAN.


Smart COAT SWEATERS
FOR COOL DAYS.
This illustrates one of the latest All Wool Coat
Sweaters, so comfortable and smart for Out-door and
Sports Wear. It is well finished, and a most reliable
make. Has two pockets at the side, and can be had
in either White or Grey.
Sizes S.M. M. O.S.
Prices 12/6 12/6 i3/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON THESE GOODS
to ALL PARTS of the COMMONWEALTH.
“an s3NOf aiAva
OPP. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
1
1
B
■
Pratt’s
Motor
Spirit
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Melbournian”: I know nothing more
beautiful than the sight of a professional
weather prophet watering his garden half
an hour before the rain starts.
There is a very wild man in Sydney. Ilis
case is that lie employs girls for evening
work only at his soft-drinkery in a certain
well-known show place, and that, for the
sake of getting ornamental girls, he pays
225. Gd. a week, whereas the legal minimum
is 16s. Gd. Some jester informed on him
for not giving his employees the legal after-
noon off, and that was how the trouble arose.
Despite his plea that he couldn’t give them
an afternoon off when they hadn’t an after-
noon on he fell in according to the terms of
the law. He didn’t fall in much, but he fell
In ss. and 30s. costs. The full measure
of his degradation only came to his know-
ledge when lie drifted into his club next
night and asked the usual push to have a
drink. The usual push sat tight and wore
a glassy stare. One man even laughed the
metallic laugh. Finally a hollow voice that
sounded like someone throwing dice in Ilell
said these words: “We won’t drink with a
criminal.”
THE USUAL C OMPL LMENTS.
Mr. Fogarty (in proposing the brides health): “An’ it's meself is proud to say I 'ave
knowed the bride this forty-odd year."
THE BRIDE: “It's a thunderin' liar you are , Fogarty , me bein' only just turned thirty
wan an' a half.”
The Sherlock Holmeses of the Victorian
force are hard at it trying to discover the
sender of the bomb that badly damaged
harmless little F. E. Lee, one of Victoria’s
Land Purchase Commissioners, and more or
less injured his fellow Commissioner, Hastie,
and a subordinate. They have reasoned out
that it was intended for Lee, that it was
meant to wound, if not kill; and that it came
from Sydney, as shown by the postmark.
Also, that it was skilfully constructed and
exploded according to specifications. Fur-
thermore, the sender left a clue. The brown
paper wrapper of the parcel had been used
before, and it bore this printed legend:
“Should there be any complaints respecting
the contents of this package, please refer to
our agents, Messrs. , Sydney ; Co.,
London, England.” The culprit apparently
couldn’t resist the jest, and so he or she left
the tag on. All the police have to do now
is to search for a homicidal subject with a
sense of humor.
There was a faint whoop last week when
the Ma State’s Chief Secretary threw out his
chest and remarked proudly, “Governments
do not regard the police-officer of to-day as a
thief-catcher only, hut as a well-trained, effi-
cient all-round officer whose services can he
utilised for the general welfare of the com-
munity.” Then it transpired that all the
trotting and fussing of the 2(500 N.S.W.
policemen in their various sidelines and mis-
cellaneous capacities had been worth just
£40,000 for the year. It isn’t worth it. A
policeman should he a policeman all the time,
just as a thief is a thief 24 hours a day and
seven days a week. No sensible person wants a
house mastiff to knock off being a dog and
come in and mend the stockings or wind up
the gramophone. If a dog of that sort could
he procured, it wouldn’t be as effective as the
plain or straight dog that attended strictly to
business.
* * # *
Fort Gellibrand, which lurks at the hack
of flat AVilliamstown (Vic.), dropped three
shells under the nose of the speedy bay
steamer Mourilyan one day last week, and
caused that perturbed vessel to shriek loudly
and dive for shelter. The officers in the
fort don’t deny the firing, but they assert
that the dashed projectiles hit the sea a
good GOOyds. away and not within 30 or 40
yards, as the boss bay mariner, Captain
Forbes, says they did. The weight of evi-
dence is with Forbes, his crew and pas-
sengers. People don’t stand on their toes
and howl at a white splash nearly half a mile
off. They are merely interested. Then Gelli-
brand is. badly situated for practice pur-
poses, being just round a busy corner where
ships are always coming and going. A few
years ago it bounced a shot right over the
bows of an outward-bound inter-State boat.
That fact will probably be remembered
against the impatient, sudden-death depot
when the present matter is inquired into.
“WHERE THERE'S A WILL ’
BRIGHT YOUNG MAN (to bride): “ I say, Mrs. Jack , do you kiss your brothers-in-law?”
BRIDE: "Yes, Air. Brown. Why?"
B.Y.M. (thoughtfully): “I wonder if your youngest sister would marry me.”
“0.K.” on the tender heart and rather
illogical mind of woman
, . „ ~ , , , i j x.
A matter to be carefully noted and remembered by
cynical students of the Advanced Women s movement
is the murder of the editor of Paris Eigaro by the
wife of a politician whom he had denounced, rightly
or wrongly, as a person unfit to be Minister of
* inance. It is, by the way, a matter of much
personal concern to all newspaper editors, accus-
tomed to the receipt of indignant letters from woman
champions of public men. The Bulletin, for m-
stance can speak of one anonymous correspondent, of
the softer sex, who boils over with indignation re
any unfavorable comment on William Watt, the Vic-
torian Premier. Fortunately she seems disposed to
leave the punishment of the offending editor to be
meted out by God, in the Hereafter; but if she were
a less patient and hopeful lady, the result might
have been a tragedy on earth ere now. At any rate,
she adds to this paper’s editorial interest in the case
of the recent murder of Mr. Calmette, the Paris
Figaro editor, by Mrs. Caillaux. Figaro had for
two or three years been disclosing alleged facts in-
jurious to the character of Mr. Caillaux, and was
threatening to publish some more. Hence the in-
dignation of his wife. On the day before the next
lot of disclosures was due the lady wrote a letter to
her husband wherein she said. “When you receive
this I shall have executed justice.” Then she went
to the Figaro office, saw the editor and fired four
bullets into him, with the result that he died imme-
diately remarking, “I only did my duty.” The
porter who had shown the lady into the room rushed
to disarm her, and she said. Leave .me dvoue, I
am a woman. I shall not run away.” Mrs. Cail-
laux’s insistence upon the dignity of her sex at this
supreme moment was, perhaps, even more humorous
than her assurance that she would not attempt a
mad flight from the building in her tight skirts,
Nevertheless her determination not to do a bolt was
droll enough, seeing that she had already given her
card to the hall porter, and flight would have
availed her nothing unless she took the precaution
to kill the porter and pick up the card before she
fled. However, the main point to be considered is
that Mrs. Caillaux, having fired four bullets into
ing him°a me I
am a woman!” when somebody proposed to treat her
as though She were dangerous. The cry of the egre-
gious feminine will be repeated, in various keys,
all the time she is on her trial for murdering the
editor, “Don’t touch me. I a woman /’’However
the Law may handle her after the trial, Mrs. Call-
laux is pretty certain to be touched more gently
than if she were a man. The very first idea of the
Paris mob was to label Caillaux as. the “assassin,”
and regard his missus as a minor offender. What
the cynical students of Advanced Womanhood would
like to know is how do the W.P.A., the W.N.P.L.
and every other society beginning with “W” for
women, measure the culpability of Mrs. C. in this
matter. Being fully entitled to a vote from the
Suffragette point of view, is she fully entitled to be
guillotined like a man ? And if not, why not ? Ilav-
ing murdered the editor in the interests of her hus-
bands political career (u 3 she supposed), is she less
responsible than hubby for the editor’s sudden
decease ? And if so, why so ? No society beginning
w j th W admits that woman is a weaker vessel or an
irresponsible creature. The question of Mrs. Cail-
laux’s fitness for the last dread penalty of the man-
made Law> is the ques ti o n which all Advanced
Woman societies should promptly dispose of. They
are up against it> The possibility of an indignant
man murderillg a « social editress” looms In the
future and the exact position of M rs. o aillaux should
b e clearly defined.
* y * * *
The military authorities are advertisinv
o n n v. J autnonties are aavei Using
* Ol horses at about £25 each. They
want, useful roadsters, the sort that Will
do either for guns, ammunition waggons,
transport, ambulance, or even mounted in-
fantry or cava l ry work . At present the
oaaa ~ i
ba ! men owns about 2000 more or less
animals. The bad old system of
hiring remounts from shopkeepers, livery
stable proprietors and the like has been
abandoned for ever—the saving on this re-
fnrrn holno- n„e a™,,,, riQnnn i„oi-
torm . be *“ g P at dawa at ±16,000 .
1 P JNew poll til Wales, and £lO,OOO ill
Victoria. It is needless to say that there
never was anything in the hiring system,
I n the first place, the Department naturally
grot the rottenesf old tlmt flip ton-
; In • C • tlla ,“e ten
derers had in their possession. Also, natu-
rally, the ruined beasts knocked up in quick
order. Their owners then sought, and got,
compensation on a vast scale. By reason of
their age and man if o j d infirmities the hired
e
0 eatuies were hardly ever available for
service more than once, which resulted in
the soldiers having to operate always with
green remounts. Kitchener was disgusted
with the efforts of the Australian mounted
transports etc while Hamilton
them admirable. The difference was
almost entirely a matter of suitable animal-
age. The number of animals is still
some miles below national requirements,
And of course there is no War Reserve — a
matter the urgency of which may be gauged
when it is remembered that General
French lost 10,000 of his horses in a very
short time during the S’African trouble,
The Government simply must start a State
horse-brepdinv establishment shnrtlv nr he
norse Dr ? e r ? establishment shortly, or De
prepared to have its Defence Minister and
his departmental advisers hanged as traitors
when an invasion occurs.
DIRGE OF A WET SUNDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rain foil almost continuously throughout yester-
day.—Monday morning paper.
See where the damp, umbrella-d curate passes
Towards his damp, deserted, draughty church ;
With drops of rain upon his staring glasses,
He swims along like some inquiring perch.
The drip, drip, drip of everlasting showers
Has dulled my brain; Imagination leaves
Off like a run-down toy; the grieving hours
Pass in the weeping of the sodden eaves.
The angry hum of some car as it dashes
Through seas of slush diverts me this drear day;
It streams away with many kissing splashes,
Outflinging mud in quite a regal way.
Some thin, cracked music ! (’Tis a cold bell ringing !
The curate plucks it with a thin, cold hand!)
Some organ moaning and some hopeless singing
As Night creeps softly o’er a hopeless land.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Do you shave yourself? If so you can
get the best results by using a Diamond Edge (brand)
razor; price 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d. each, postage 6d.
extra. Also sole agent for Apex Hair Restorer, a
true hair-grower, 4s. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a bottle. Sup-
plied only by T. Wild, 30 Sydney Arcade, Sydney.*
bvc
%
THE NEW
SILK STRIPE MATERIAL.
‘SILBSTRIA”
• FLANNEL
WILL NOT SHRINK.
The Latest in Velours
This style, being something quite apart
from the ordinary, will commend itself
to many men who want distinctive head-
wear for Easter and after.
It is a new Alpine Felt, Velour finish,
with medium crown. The brims are
2iin; with unbound edges. Bow at side
or back.
The contrasting bands add to the effec-
tiveness of this popular style. Colors:
Natural, Smoke, Reseda Green, Nut
Brown and Black.
PRICE:
Postage 9d. extra.
Please state size and shade when ordering.
b
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
men’s
OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Harrison 0.”: —
A wife’s apparel oft proclaims the other man.
Genius is an infinite capacity for making others
take pains.
Where there’s a will there’s a way of disputing it.
An idol is something with clay feet and open-work
stockings.
SO ALL THINGS WORK TOWARD
THE COMAON GOOD.
“ Well, there’s one thing in favor op these
transparent skirts. If a man does happen
to get a bandylegged wife he can’t say he
didn't know what was coming at him.”
Another outbreak of typhoid at Kew
(Vic.) Hospital for Mental Diseases draws
attention to the fact that the Government
hasn’t yet had that establishment connected
with the sewerage system. The excuse is
that the new hospital at Mont Park was ex-
pected to supersede the hopeless barracks at
Kew and the ramshackle shanties at Yaria
Bend, but it is now found that the new
place will only accommodate the perennial
increase in lunacy cases, and that the ancient
contraptions will have to continue in use
for the Lord knows how long. Yet, as show-
ing the hypocrisy of this excuse, last year
the Government actually did a little to pla-
cate the persistent director, Dr. Jones —it
sewered the laundry and the morgue, though
why the latter place should have been
attended to first is a mystery, inasmuch as
the only persons who use it for more than
a few minutes at a time don’t care a brass
farthing whether it is sewered or not. It is
sienificurtt that the aforesaid Dr. Jones says
that, ever since he has been boss he has been
vainly trying to get decent sanitary systems
applied, not only to Kew and Yarra Bend,
but to similar institutions at Sunbury, Ara-
rat and Beechworth. It should never be for-
gotten that patients in mental hospitals have
no votes, and under the Party Government
system a person without a vote is just as
well dead.
“0.K.”: Rev. Eddy is touring Australia
in quest of funds for the Mission to Lepers.
“Saving the souls” of lepers seems an essen-
tially martyrdomic occupation in an age
when martyrs might be much more usefully
employed. Of all the slow and shocking
diseases that human sufferers must surely
die of (if no fatal accident or other disease
kills the patient in the meantime) leprosy is
most calculated to chasten the doomed ones’
spirit and fit them for life to come. And
seeing that the whole business of priests and
parsons is to lead sinners to repentance by
insisting on the evil of their past and the
dangers of their future —to make them virtu-
ously broody, in short —what can be the
good of talking religion to lepers, whose dis-
ease teaches them resignation, and the
vanity of social worldliness, and leaves them
with absolutely nothing but Heaven to hope
for? The D—l offers the occupants of a
leper Station no inducement to prepare their
souls for ll—l. It is the merest waste of
piety for any healthy person to be a mis-
sionary to lepers. If they get a humane
Government’s consideration for their sick
bodies their souls will take care of them-
selves. Everybody must die as surely as
any leper. The average journalist lives and
dies without having received the least per-
sonal attention from a missionary.
“Adelaide” : Talking of the Real Property
(Torrens) Act 18. 19/2/’I4), a proposal to
use paper instead of parchment, for certifi-
cates of title, caused a howl from most of
Adelaide’s lawyers and land-agents last year;
but the proposal was
carried out, and the howl
has perished. The stiff
paper looks very like
sheepskin, only cleaner,
and of course takes the
ink better. Now that
will-probates, which are
to last for ever, are offici-
ally required to be on
paper—and very flimsy
banknote stuff at that —
the sheep’s outer margin
is going right out of
fashion. And, of course,
under the beneficent R.P.
Act which Torrens orig-
inated in Adelaide (and
which is gradually being
copied all over the world
where lawyers’ vested in-
terests are not too
strong), the Title an
owner clings to so
proudly is only a dupli-
cate. The original is bound
up in a fireproof room at
the L.T.0., and to lose or destroy his certifi-
cate altogether would be a less expensive
matter than losing a £5 note.
The attempt to blow up the Vic. Closer
Settlement Commissioners with a bomb had
at least one humorous result. Melb. Herald
published a photo, of three smudgy men
standing behind a table, each holding some-
thing in his hand and gazing thereat. These
were described as “Detectives examining
fragments of bomb.” The sleuth hounds of
the law had seemingly ’phoned for the
’Erald’s camera fiend to come and “take”
them in their first act of unravelling the
mystery. Their facial expressions were
misty, but their attitudes clearly denoted a
consensus of opinion that the bomb had ex-
ploded from the inside, and that it wasn’t
loaded with soup.
Adelaide Police Court lately found itself
up against an odd incident. The plaintiff
in an assault-and-robbery case was present
when the Court opened, but missing when
the case came on. Later, an agitated tele-
phone message came from him, and still later
he appeared in person. He said he had been
THE TABLES TURNED.
“ You don't mean to say you are going to smoke THOSE?”
“ No! 'They are a little Christmas present for the wife.”
“approached” just outside and offered £5 to
square things, if he would get into the
Glenelg train (which still starts in the
street just by the court). Apparently, he
regarded the money as an interim dividend
on the £8 he said he had been robbed of; for
he took it and the train, but got out at the
first station and telephoned to the police.
The Court was feeling good-natured, so it
took no further notice of this adventure, and
just fined defendant £2O, as he wanted to
“get back to Tasmania.” Which seems
rough on Tasmania.
This paper’s “Old Soldier” discourses:
Hamar Greenwood, M.P., in the course of a
vigorous Parliamentary denunciation of the
social influences that sway the British army,
said, according to the cable: —
Australia has wiped out the social status in the
army, and the two best officers in the Australian
Training School are a son of a policeman and a
soil of a shoemaker. Such men would have no chance
at Sandhurst Military College.
As a matter of fact, they would probably
never get to Sandhurst, for the simple rea-
son that their fathers could not afford the
£4OO it would cost to keep them there for
the two years course. Furthermore, it
would be necessary, after they had passed
out, and got their commissions, to give them
at least ±lOO a year for about seven years
till they became captains and could live on
their pay. The cadets’ parents or guardians
have to hand out money heavily for their
board and tuition, supply bed and table
linen and uniform, and also provide pocket-
money on a liberal scale, so that they can
join cricket, football and other clubs. But
these are not the only reasons why the sons
of people of humble extraction are not to
be found at such institutions. In the first
place, their lives either at Sandhurst and
Woolwich would be rendered intolerable by
the other lads. There is no pariah so com-
plete as the “outsider” in a milieu of youth-
ful Britishers. In the second place,
even assuming that the policeman’s offspring
lived through a college life, without being
“ragged” off his head, he would do no good
for himself in his regiment. The feminine
influence, which is all-powerful in many
cases in this environment, is dead against
such a class of warrior. The power of the
women was shown during the Boer war.
Lord Roberts’ staff, for example, was a mass
of dukes and so forth, not .because he
wanted these young men, but for the reason
that his masterful and society-loving wife
dominated the situation. Lady White was
notoriously the better horse in the stable,
which she shared with her husband, the
general. Kitchener is about the only front-
ranker who has been credited with complete
immunity from feminine, which is another
way of saying social, influences. And there
have been doubts even about him.
A MATTER OF ETIQUETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr Hollis MX.A., thought it would bo unwise
to remove tile remains of those buried in Newtown
,\ T S W 1 cemetery, which is now to be closed in
its Hod's tore capacity. He would not like to see the
ground used for cricket and football or other sports
and he could not see any reason why it should not
be made a pleasant resort and playground for
children. — Daily paper.
Sing “Ring-a-ring-a-rosy” round your grandma’s
grave,
Let your merriment rise high above her clay;
Sing ail the nursery rhymes re wood and wave,
And “Here we go gathering nuts and may.”
Sing “Goosey, Goosey, Gander,” to the vault,
And nonsense verse to Erebus and Dis.
But when you’ve grown a little tis a faulj;
In converted graveyards to behave like this:
“Buck in, Souf Melbourne! Gouge his eye!
Carlton is premiers, though we make the wasters die!
Buck in, Souf Melbourne! Smash their ’ead!
Bash ’em with a thighbone though you wake the
dead !”
How the dear departed love the children’s joy !
When with laughter shrill they break from Sunday-
school !
But the older ones are rot so very coy,
And stay from church to keep the Golden Rule.
Will the dead object to lovers by their tombs,
Though they bar the flannelled oaf and muddied
fool?
Though the babies who sing “Mary quite contrary”
Are quite welcome, will they bar the Golden Rule?
Her head upon his shoulder by the stone,
Where the granite angel points ’yond earthly bars;
Comes no protest from the dead while girlecn droops
her head
And the Joy of Youth encompasses the stars,
“You see it’s this way,” said the courteous ghost,
“I’ve done with agriculture many years.
I died in eighteen fifty, and the most
I claim is neither fear nor praise nor tears.
Full sixty years agone I dust became,
And the worms brought me to surface long ago,
Blowing round the world and caught by wind and
flame,
And it matters not to me the seed you sow.
“The dead are dead —the earth is but for life,
The child, the young man and the ancient fool.
Above me let the new fool take a wife
And play the game that’s called the Golden Rule,
Though “Goosey Goosey’’ wander all the day —
Within my chamber low no child may be,
A 1 or Carlton nor Souf Melbourne —till they pay
The price that makes them care for nought—like
me.”
N.S.W.
VERY BAD PENMAN.
BUFFERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop Mercer, of Tasmania, who is now return-
ing to England after 12 years of ministry among
the apples, has discovered Australia’s chief political
need, and has expressed it in one word: “It seems
to me that you want what we have in England—a
fairly large ‘buffer’ class. That is the class against
which the extremes of Radicalism or of Toryism
dash themselves. If Australia is to become politically
stable there should come into existence a consider-
able ‘buffer’ class that should have sympathies with
both Labor and non-Labor aspirations.”
We’ve democrats and plutocrats
(A sprinkling of the latter),
And Liberals and gibberals
Whose everlasting chatter
Is beerisomcly wearisome,
And cranks a trifle eerisome,
Who really do not matter.
We’ve jingo-gun-and-sabre men,
And lots of ardent Labor men,
Who’d help their weaker neighbor men
To get a little fatter;
We’ve picture, verse and story men
And dull prosaic Tory men —-
Official banquet stuffers.
Our social system suffers
Prom many sorts of duffers.
We’ve wowsy men and frowsy men,
And shoot-their-linen-euffers.
But ’twixt the Rads and Tory men
(Those hard commercial hoary men)
We have not any buffers.
Buffers !
The Bishop sighs for Buffers.
Stodgy men with sturdy beams
To stay the dash of two extremes
And harmonise the rival themes —
The smoother and the roughers.
Murmurs Mercer in his dreams.
“Heaven send ’em Buffers—
Buffers !
Much in need Australia seems
Of Buffers
Buffers !
Buffers!
VICTORIA.
O.K.


Their aid would be valuable also in
the capture of escaping criminals and
general police work.
There is no reason why in Victoria we
should not breed dogs for police pur-
poses—or at least train such breeds as
we have.
! Ityere \%
lrtirle too-macV
*aog imported
Hens CouJ>le of
ouodt. in "tf/e e/GcoitTon
ofthoir duty &01~ fo r io»*fe.l/
'for Vrglatr * I'tHe jM^VVe
' matter crohbid ub
doos whic-t) t>«.
settle witn o * i 'fd«.li k y.
"''^TaJse
It was thought that dogs might make
mistakes in identity.
volunteer manoeuvres have "
ingly successful.
Ah
Allgp.
k S y
golM^ton
on - diffically.
•““ Whits ifie er ]' gjs
ch\ r Qe-d wi m ?
John Hob A 1 identify y fc r worship,
* Zc'Xe.by in me uniJorn7.
Specially-bred dogs are trained for
police work, and their curriculum in-
eludes lessons in barking at the .right
rime and keeping silent when necessary.
Half a dozen well-bred • dogs of flhr
collie, the retriever, the bloodhound, and
the Airedale breed could be purchased
and kennelled at Dandenong.
Qtu'fe ~n>c i*7<descre‘/To»7
of b out"of ifj'twrri
»tg .
0«r herewith Submrjifg
A.few dogs from >iis sfcK.
DOGS IN VICTORIA.
Retired Police Commissioner O’Callaghan suggests the use of dogs for tracking criminals


THE DREDGE THAT NEVER RETURNED.
Another imported dredge, the Posidonia, is reported drowned with all hands, A wonderful number of imported dredges perish on the toad hither with all
hands Incidentally, the owners of the iron corpse have ordered a fresh dredge to be imported. Probably it will go the same old road.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Stores in Australasia. Ladies recommend
them. Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
GAELIC WHISKY
is now supplied in the
NEW PATENT NON-REFILLABLE
GUARANTEE BOTTLE.
The characteristics of GREAT
AGE, PURITY and QUALITY
have been most carefully pre-
served.
Agents: ORME, KEIGWINgCO.Ltd.
269-271 George Street, Sydney.
WORLD-FAMED
For
QUALITY
HATS.
"DURABILITY
NABOB BOOT PASTE,
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney.
EVERY DAY
more people are proving that
is the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux epaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub —lengthens the
life of the clothes.
r
\ 11
!>7b< ‘••i 1 1
L»J)
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
STRINGER, Maoriland’s
new Arbitration Court Judge.
Extract from the friendly (?) testimonial
supplied by E. W. M. Grigg, editor of the
Round Table, to Braham, the imported
English editor of Sydney Telegraph :
lie has the gift of getting on with those with
whom he is thus associated, and of making the most
of their abilities.
That paragraph wears its sting in its tail.
Whether Grigg intended to put it there is
beside the question. But if Braham had
ever associated with Grigg and made the
most of Grigg’s abilities without Grigg’s
permission, and to his extreme annoyance,
Grigg could not have found a neater way of
calling Braham a literary crow or vulture.
If Grigg is really bursting with admiration
of Braham and wants to say so, then liis
English is not as plain as it might be, and
Ins recommendation should be lost at the
first opportunity.
G. A. Jeffries writes: —
John Kneeshaw, lately Traffic-Manager of Sydney’s
vast tramway system, died at Summer Hill, Sydney,
week before last. He was not altogether popular
with the great bulk of his staff, because they did
not understand him. But the men who worked close
to him both loved and respected him. He was as
near to being a genius as a sane, healthy and
thoroughly balanced man may get. He was a Vic-
torian by birth, but while still an infant his parents
took him to Canterbury, Maoriland. He went to
school at Heathcote, and afterwards to Christ College,
Christchurch. There he displayed unusual brilli-
ance at mathematics, but was as dull as ditchwater
in other respects. He drifted into the railways by
some route this writer wots not of, and from the
jump made his mark as a brilliant accountant.
When there was difficulty over a balance-sheet, it
was: “Oh, hang it —get ‘Black Jack’; he’ll find it
m one act!” And “Black Jack” invariably did. He
was still in his early twenties when he became the
senior and most dreaded auditor of Maoriland Rail-
way Department, and responsible to the General
Manager alone. lie was the first man to dare to
audit the accounts of traffic managers. He bowled
out more swindlers than all the other auditors put
together. Robertson, who had started a fund with
which he intended to go fruit-growing in California
when the time was ripe, decided after the first visit
of “The Raven” that the time would never be riper
than it was then. He had a small printing press,
and printed his own railway season tickets. “The
Raven” could not understand that the amount re-
ceived from season-ticket holders should be so small,
and told him so. He got hold of one of Robertson’s
faked tickets, and gazed at it so earnestly that the
IN TOPHET.
S KULLUS: “Who are they?"
EYEUS : “They are the politicians who main-
tained that the water supply at Canberra
was adequate for all requirements."
artist contracted heart failure. Next week he came
back and started digging again. Robertson got on
his feet and fled with what boodle he had on hand,
leaving his investments behind him. He got clear
away. When “Black Jack” heard the news he
smiled grimly and said: “I knew, that fellow was a
thief—and I’ll bet you anything you like he
printed his own tickets!” This was afterwards
proved to be the case. Had he stayed in Maoriland
he would inevitably have become the General Mana-
ger in all but name. He was a sombre individual
who called few men friend, but those who were so
honored he never forgot. Eddy, of N.S.W., saw
him, and took a great fancy to him. Later on,
David Kirkcaldie, on behalf of Eddy, offered him a
position on N.S.W. Railways. A travelling Amurkan
railway magnate also tried to induce him to go to
Uncle Sam’s land, but he decided to come to Aus-
tralia, to N.S.W.’s benefit. He had a tremendous
memory. He remembered every trait and idiosyn-
crasy of every officer whose accounts he audited, and,
after a couple of inspections, he knew intuitively if
the man was a swindler in what way he would
swindle. On one occasion he bowled out a country
station-master, and the man went suddenly mad
with fear. He drew a revolver and pointed it at
Kneeshaw. “Black Jack” sat down and lit his pipe,
talked the man out of his homicidal mood, did his
best for him in the ensuing trouble, and said nothing
about the revolver incident. He was very keen, and
when 17 years after the event I published a story
which told how a swindler got past him, he called
and asked for particulars. When he heard the
details he said he remembered the incident,
and gave the name of the officer. I believe
Kneeshaw could have told you accurately
the number of the page in liis first school-
book that the blot was on.
* A rather confused statement by “Martin
Luther”
Morrissey, one time Vic. Minister for Lands, is
seen around Melbourne occasionally with Big Jack,
his son. Many years ago, when Big Jack was Young
Jack, and the ex-Minister was a schoolmaster, there
was another Morrissey who dealt in grain—mostly
oats. Schoolmaster Morrissey took naturally to
butter and cheese and pigs and eggs, and gravitated
as naturally out of schoolmastership. He was known
as “Pig” Morrissey, and the grain man as “Gat”
Morrissey. “Pig” Morrissey made a fortune in sell-
ing produce to South Africa, but “Oat” Morrissey
turned back to his early job—which, unfortunately,
was journalism. Much of the other Morrissey’s for-
tune is due to Big Jack —the son aforesaid. lie
looks so much a produce man that you wonder why
he hasn t a cow under his arm and a big frieze coat
with him.
When O’Callaghan was Chief of Police
in Victoria some of his detractors didn’t con-
sider him a very astute sort of man, but per-
haps he was under-rated. In his capacity
as a retired O’Callaghan he recommends the
employment of dogs, as in France, for the
tracking of criminals. Let it be noted most
carefully that O’Callaghan is retired. There
is now no risk of an ambitious dog under-
mining him in his billet.
Thus the Sydney Freeman’s Journal
(19/3/T4), more, doubtless, in error than
in anger:—
The presentation was made by Mr. Tight Ryan,
editor, who spoke in the highest terms of the
recipient’s ability.
The thing would look nasty were not Tighe
Ryan one of the most abstemious of ink-
slingers.
R. S. Smythe, the Much-Travelled, had
his 81st birthday recently. Smythe abides
at Balwyn, an outlying suburb of Melbourne,
and, when the hot weather is in season, the
old warrior is not much seen around Collins-
street. At these times he is. suspected of
being busy on a book of reminiscences. But
Smythe seemingly has abandoned the idea of
writing the sort of autobiography which
would be so much more readable than the
average book of recollections. He could have
talked very openly about the celebrities he
managed, for they mostly had a quite remark-
able talent for dying a few years afterwards.
The chances are that he will outlive the lot.
“Parisine”: The murderess Caillaux and
her husband —the French ex-Minister of
Finance—are both peculiar. Caillaux’s first
fancy, so far as disclosed, was for the wife
of one of his clerks. That clerk was rapidly
promoted. The, case might be like that of
Premier Melbourne, who put Mrs. Norton’s
husband into the paid magistracy
at £lOOO a year. The clerk, how-
ever, thought he saw a rat floating
in the air, and got a divorce. Cail-
laux married the lady. Then the
case arose which Sardou imagined
in “Divorcons.” Caillaux sus-
pected his wife of undue friendship
for her former husband, and began
a divorce suit with him (the pre-
vious husband) as co-respondent.
His friends joked him out of this.
Next the wife obtained a divorce
on account of his misconduct. She
was granted alimony, and on the
strength of this she married her
former husband, so that everything
was as it had been barring the
alimony. Caillaux then pursued the
present Madame Caillaux, the mur-
deress. She was married to Leon
Claretie, nephew of the Theatre Franqais
director. She got a divorce and married
Caillaux. Now she is in prison for the
slaying of the editor who apparently knew
(and said) too much about her remarkable
and numerous husband —the Minister of
Finance. And an excited populace is throw-
ing road metal.
Fire-fighter Rickwood, just dead rather
suddenly in Adelaide, had put in a lot of
hard work for his country during his 52
years of life. He was the son of a Cornish
coastguard, and was in Australia at 15, as a
middy on the old warship Sapphire. He
was present when British rule was pro-
claimed over the scrap of Papua which Bull
holds, and ultimately became instructor of
N.S.W. Naval Brigade, with charge of all
the coastal life-saving service. Incidentally
HIS FIRST PUPIL.
UNIVERSITY’S NEEDS.
Inquiry by the Senate.
A professorship of the Semitic languages was
asked for.
THE PROF. : “Now, Meesder ’Olmansh, pefore
ve goes any furdther, ’ow many letters do
you know in de ’Ebrew alphapedl?”
HOLMAN : “Three."
THE PROF. : " Goot! Vot are dey?"
HOLMAN : “I O U."
he was a torpedo expert, and one of the best
rifle-shots in Australia. Nine years ago he
resigned to become second (which soon
became first) in command of Adelaide’s
Fire Brigades. He had a Napoleonic way of
jumping on a blaze hard and early. He just
threw everything at it without waiting to
see if it was worth the trouble. If it
wasn’t worth the trouble nothing was lost,
and, if it was, the city was saved. He
saved it 11 times in quick succession during
the recent hot weather, and then a weak
heart bowled him out.
Lieutenant-Colonel “Reggie” Clarke, who
has died in Victoria, aged 34, was the
youngest officer of his rank in the Common-
wealth Army. He was a son of the late
Baronet and a grandson of old Peter Snod-
grass. Russell Clarke, M.L.C., and Frank
Clarke, M.L.C. (Vic.), are brothers; and
Baronet Rupert Clarke is a half-brother.
RILEY , BISHOP OF PERTH.
“S.T.S.”: “J.F.H.” misremembers when
lie talks (B. 5/3/’l4) of “Trollope’s famous
William Amelia,” in connection with the
still-living Henry Lucy. That is—without
professing to remember every character
in Trollope’s many books —David Christie
Murray certainly had a Mr. Amelia
in that excellent novel, “Tlie Way
of the World.” And it was understood to
be a satire on Lucy. In fact, lest there
should be any doubt remaining, the hero was
made to write a novel himself. Lucy has
just one such indiscretion on his record,
“Gideon Fleyce.” Very neatly, Mr. Amelia’s
was given the title of “Jacob Zladder.”
“Rangan” : T. J. Ryan, Banana-
land’s Parliamentary Labor leader,
is one of the most interesting speak-
ers in the Assembly and the best
debater. Also, as a lawyer, he has
few equals locally. His spirited
defence of Senator Ferricks in the
Denham libel case was the best
losing fight put up in Queensland
for many years. What is perhaps
less known of him is his open-
handedness. He not only returned
to Ferricks his share of the heavy
costs, but persuaded Denham to
return his share also. Before tak-
ing up law Ryan was a grammar-
school teacher, and a story says
that he used to give more time to
his law books that to his classes,
and several times was asked to
resign. But each time he hauled
down half a dozen law books from the shelf
and showed that he needn’t resign till he
wanted to.
DIED AGAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Emperor Menelik recently died again. This is
the third or fourth demise that monarch has, more
or less successfully, accomplished.
So Menelik has gone—and once again
AVe don the face of woe and garments sable,
And send condolences across the main
And shun the giddy dance and festive table,
So that the news of our consuming loyalty
May comfort the sad heart of kindred royalty.
’Til not by any means the only time
That Menelik has left this earthly portal,
And heaved a good-bye at his torrid clime
And craved admission at the Towers Immortal;
He used to die —with neither rhyme nor reason
(So said the Press) both in and out of season.
Just take, I beg, a momentary flight
(Of course I mean upon the vanes of fancy),
And track his soaring to yon Golden Height;
And then, by that same subtle necromancy,
Just hearken how the Guardian Peter greets him
And notice what astounded welcome meets him!
“You —Menelik? Oh, damn it —This is rough.
Some three times, sir, you know you’ve come
already,
(I quote the Times), and now your spirit tough
Knocks here again with spectral hand unsteady.
Three times before did earthly journals speak of it
And now again ! 0 Menelik —the cheek of it!
“You’ll read that notice, will you, in your fist,
Obituarising all your noblest features,
Forgetting that we’ve got your every twist
Recorded here like those of other creatures;
Now— arc you genuine spectre, Abyssinia,
Or is it just the divilment that’s in you ?
“If I admit you—p’raps within a week
You’re here again upon the old pretences,
AVith shroud on arm and phizog pale and meek
Intent to jump o’er these celestial fences;
1 let you in—some cherub tells the Vast of it,
You come once more —I’d never hear the last of it!
“You Frozen Fraud ! No human undertaker
Is ever certain when lie's got you down;
You’d try your dying jokes upon your Maker,
And bob up here like some demented clown ;
Get back with all this lying printed stuff of you,
And tell those journals that we’ve had enough of
you !”
QUEENSLAND.
F.B.
THE APPROACHING DEBACLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The recent storm did great damage around Parra*
matta. A cow house was blown down On the estate
of -Mr. Joseph Cook. —News item.
Last week the papers told a moving tale
Of Joseph Cook, his cow-house and a gale.
Details were given of the mighty blow
By means of which the structure was laid low;
Yet not a word did any of them say
Of that tornado wild which, day by day,
Creeps steadily upon the Liberals.
In three months time, or less, Cook and his pals
A far more devastating storm shall see—
And that will up against their Duck House be.
N.S.W.
THE HIRED PROPHET.


w'.V->
rm
•fit
M
*
A
m
■■.■:■■
m
m
warn
■jr
Hi
SSSSf
mm
in
sm
i-v I
ISi
few*
/■Hr,.
Mf
■
;;
Wk
mmm?? s
For Rich, Full Flavor, Mild Tobacco
there is no higher g'rade made.
Tins Hermetically sealed or not sealed.
" Flake Cut ... loz., 20z., ligHt and dark.
Mixture ... loz., 2oz.
99 40z., all strengths in one tin.
Plug 40z., ligkt arid dark.
NOTE.-The 4oz. MIXTURE. Tin gives
any desired strength, from the very
mildest to the full. A most suitable
tin for entertaining friends, as every
smolier suits himself. The line being
only just on the marKet, get your
tobacconist to order it.
LMN
PIPES
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
ve ry P'P e G “ ara nteej
PIJJ7TT
m
■EP"
LMN


Woodworking Machinery 8 Engineers’ Tools
COVENTRY CHAINS FOR MOTOR LORRIES.
Kindly let us have your enquiries. “ INGECO ” FARM ENGINES.
SIMPSON BROS., 32-34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BUCYRUiS CO. Milwaukee
Steam Shovels, Drag' Line Excavators.
Sole Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS (Q, COMPANY LIMITED,
•Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund.—This splendid insurance fund was established
in 1900, and has been worked with remarkable suc-
cess. The idea was to make the disabled miner inde-
pendent of the beggar’s bowl, and the widow of the
miner killed by accident more or less independent of
the washtub. The Act provides for contributions by
workmen (50 p.c.), employers (25 p.c.) and State
(25 p.c.). The workmen pay 44d. a week; or,
rather, the employer has to deduct 4jd. a week from
every workman’s wages. The benefits include pay-
ments of 15s. per week on disablement, 10s. to 15s.
per week to the widow or other adult dependent on a
mine workman on his death by accident, and ss. to
every child under 14, and £l2 for funeral expenses. The
workmen’s contribution is paid to a local committee,
which keeps its eye open for malingerers, and pays
out as far as the money in hand will go. The
balance (if any) is sent to a central Board, which
also receives the lump sums from employers and State,
and acts as general banker for the local committees.
The local committees are paid small fees (last year
the total was £1457, or about 44 p.c. of the work-
men’s contributions), and that and a few pounds for
incidentals and about £ 3 per week paid as fees to
the central Board cover the whole outlay, except for
claims. There are no canvassers, no paid collectors.
Every workman, except at the smallest mines, is a
contributor ; and the duty is thrown on the employer
of deducting the 9d. a fortnight from the workman’s
wages and handing it, without deduction, to the
proper authority. In the case of check-weighmen and
pick-men, the employers now also pay one-third of
these employees’ contributions. The Government pro-
vides office accommodation, stationery, etc., and pays
the salary of the secretary. 'These charges do not,
therefore, figure in the accounts.
The following table shows the total amounts col-
lected, the payments, and the cash balance (including
investments) :
Contributions Claims Cash
and Subsidies. Paid. Balance.
1901 .. £31,901 £6,479 £24,984
*902 ” 37,429 10,490 50,353
1903 • • 43,221 13,767 80,137
1904 . . 45,019 16,494 109,352
1905 . . 46,995 20,501 137,090
1906 . . 49,472 28,353 161,813
1907 .. 56,995 30,792 192,601
1998 .. 57,969 34,538 220,873
1909 .. 48,271 33,940 241,511
1910 • . 46,076 35,565 259,080
1911 .. 54,581 41,782 279,566
1912 .. 56,844 44,301 300,637
1913 •• 60,812 50,164 320,16 S
Besides the revenue from contributions and subsidies
there was last year an income of £11,059 from in-
terest. The investments are exclusively in N.S.W.
undecl stock, mostly at 3J p.c. At various times
various people, observing the growth of the cash
balance, have demanded extra benefits. As a matter
ot tact a 20 p.c. increase was made as the result of
the first actuarial investigation ; and on the Govern-
ment actuary’s certificate further benefits have since
been added. Last year the payment in respect of the
children of a miner who has been killed was raised
',™ m u 3S 'f was ori g in aUy 2s. 6d.), and a
O ’d-'t father, if married, now get 15s. (instead
of 10s.) while the mother also lives. Some small
increase in the benefits was clearly justified by the
higher interest earnings of the fund. The early in-
vestments were made in N.S.W. Government stock
at Si p.c.. The latter at 4 p.c.
* * *
The Savings Bank of New South
Wales :
Interest Writ-
Net Paid to ten To Re- Re-
Dec E £ lngs ’ Depositors. Off. serves, serves.
190ST‘ 185 4q! 3 |P- C '= 1 58,693 98 27^062
iqrw eq’oi? of ” ” 166,146 19,347 295,409
loni" ” » 167 > 819 21,426 316,835
1 ” ” 190,175 4,570 321,405
1906" 205*fOi ” ” 93,917 2,449 323,854
ion?” of ” ” 183 ’ 170 4,458 17,198 341,052
1908" 997 of ” ” 197,272 7,077 14,166 355,218
1909" 9 of ” ” £ O7 ’ 6 ' 4 4 > 524 15,364 370,582
19? n" oqo of ” ” 213 >989 654 22,393 392,975
1910.. 248,393 3£ „ „ 222,954 14,893)
£9500 transferred to Officers’ J- 1,046 394 021
Provident Fund /
92" 077’H 3 £P-C.= 236,718 5,701 21,868 415,889
1912.. 277,945 4 „ 286,232 407 602
1913.. 306,717 4 „ „ 310,219 _ _ |ol,’lto
This is the “Barrack-street” savings bank which
makes more or less pretence of being a private
institution, though the State Governor is ex officio
piesident, and the trustees are appointed by him
(which means by the Government) ; also the Gov-
ernor (which again is the Government) may guaran-
tee the bank, though the Legislative Assembly must
say the word before the Government backs its bills
Qw 6 r ( ha ? £*>o,ooo. Sooner or later this and
the State Bank (Government Savings Bank) must of
course, be amalgamated ; it is utterly absurd that the
State should back the bills of a competitor, whose
o™ces are m some instances within a stone’s throw
or its own institution. It is bad enough to have
Commonwealth and State scrambling for the public’s
coppers without permitting this further overlapping
and waste. b
The plain result of the scramble is shown in the
past two years figures. No losses have had to be written
off, although the foundations have probably been
laid for a few; yet the business has not paid, and
the reserves have been cut into in each year In
Too Ann y r r ’ J n order t° whitewash the sepulchre,
£20,000 has been grabbed out of the poor little
Mortgages and General Investments Depreciation
Fund, reducing that account to £33,774—and this
at a time when public securities are mostly shrinking
and when, on account of the boom valuation of local
properties, it is highly probable that some bad
advances are being made. In any case £33 774
is a miserable reserve to safeguard £1,476 537 of
mortgage investments, £98,977 sunk in office
premises, and £7,623,611 in Government stock, muni-
cipal debentures (very sick municipalities some of
them) and bank deposits. Apart from the £123,155
atow cr edit of working account with the Bank of
N.S.W., the bank has £1,700,000 on deposit with
the various private banks. To this extent it merely
acts as a middleman, a mere collector of ha’pence
for more energetic people to use; and since the more
energetic people must make their profit, it is really
astonishing that on the mean of the denosits it
actually paid so much as £3 12s. p.c. interest last
year. Still, it couldn’t afford to pay quite that
much, otherwise the reserves wouldn’t be drawn upon
And that raises the question: What is the manage-
ment going to do about it? If a private bank, in a
time of great prosperity and inflated prices dared
to weaken its very moderate reserves by paying a
dividend in excess of its earnings -for-two years
running, there would be shoulder-shrugs all round
and a stream of its depositors would remember that
they had other use for their money. But, in this
case, why trouble? There is the good old State cow
to bail up if the bank’s own milk-supply should run
out.
* * * *
The Insurance Office of Australia,
Ltd. (Sydney), which was founded in 1910, and
began with a deficit of £5250 representing prelim-
inary exes.:—■
Deficit (Pre-
Towards liminary
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Expenses).
, , —. £5250
3911 .. £4115 Nil £4115 1135
Dec., Loss.
1912 . . 436 Nil 1571
Adjustment Re-Insurance Co., £367 . . 1938
1913 . . 963 Nil 2901
When the co. had its beginnings and showed a
rather handsome profit on paper—the only one, by
the way, which it has shown—The Bulletin felt
impelled to throw cold water on the said profit.
An insurance premium is generally the price of a
year’s insurance paid in advance, therefore the pre-
mium a new co. receives a month after it has
started business has still a month’s liability to run
at the end of the year, and the one it receives in the
middle of the year has six months’ risk ahead of it,
and the one it receives on the last day of the year
represents payment for 365 days’ chances, of which
364 days are a liability when the accounts are made
up. Therefore a company that is intensely particular
about its finances sets aside a sum as “reserve for
unexpired risks,” or makes a hidden provision for
this liability and includes it in the general reserve.
If it fails to do this it is almost in the position of
a bank which forgets to include some of its deposits
among its liabilities, for if 12 months’ premium has
been received, and only one month of the 12 has
expired when the accounts are closed, the great bulk
of the premium is really in the nature of a deposit.
There are two kinds of successful fire offices. One
has heavy expenses and small losses because it spends
much money on a rigid weeding out of dangerous
risks. The other keeps down expenses, takes more
risks, and makes bigger losses. The 1.0. A. has the
bad luck to have both heavy losses and heavy ex-
penses. It started with a big bill for preliminary
charges. Apparently, it is loaded up with premises
and officials. It states, with some apparent pride,
that it has, in addition to its head office at Sydney,
branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Hobart. Rockhampton, Ballarat and Geelong, as well
as “chief agencies” at Townsville, Launceston and
Newcastle. These are a lot of establishments to live
on a net premium income of £54,618 as shown in
this table.—
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911.. £25,951 £6,748 £17,537 26.0 p.c. 67.5 p.c.
1912.. 47,241 22,443 27,845 47.5 „ 58.9 ~
1913.. 54,618 22,911 35,275 41.9 „ 64.6 „
So if allowance is made for unexpired risks on the
basis of £33 6s. Bd. p.c. we get these results:—
Original Deficit
(Preliminary
Loss. Expenses).
„ £5,250
November, 1911 .. £4535 9,785
December, 1912 .. 7533 17,318
Adjustment to Re-
insurance Co. . . 367 17,685
December, 1913 .. 3422 21,107
This shortage is made up of: Visible deficit as shown
in accounts, £2901 ; and reserve for unexpired risks
on the £3.3 6s. Bd. p.c. basis, £18,206. It can’t
be called a first-class prospect. Yet the last year is
distinctly the best. The company has a very solid
paid-up capital of £82,500, of which £44;000 is
m bank deposits; £8392 in mortgages; £15,081 in
freehold; and £4690 in cash. Also, there is
£82,500 of uncalled capital. As regards the people
who do business with the co. the position is remark-
ably sound. So far, however, the shareholders haven’t
had much luck.
The Insurance Office of Australia has a
small brother which uses the same premises, is run
by the same management, and started with very
much the same shareholders. It is a repetition of
the case of the big Victoria and the smaller Victoria
General in Melbourne. The small co. does a lot of
re-insurance for the big one, and this is its record
The Re-Insurance Co. (Sydney) :
Deficit (Pre-
liminary
Available Expenses),
for £BO3
leb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £1605 Nil £1605 £BO2
1913, . 592 Nil 592 1394
Dec.,
1913.. 1113 6 p.c. =£752 361 1755
The small concern started on a comparatively inex-
pensive basis with only £BO3 of preliminary ex-
penses, and it showed better results all round than
its big relative. As the two share the same business
in the same office, it is just possible that the small
co. has been unduly favored and the large one put to
an undue disadvantage in the division of the ex-
penses. In such a case the division must be more or
less arbitrary. There is a certain element of absurd-
ity in this business of the two companies and two
sets of accounts and stationery, and the one co.
taking re-insurances from the other. If it was one
co. and one balance-sheet and one set of stationery,
and the two capitals were knocked into one, and the
small co. vanished, and the big co. became a bit
bigger and assumed the whole risk instead of divid-
mg it, quite a lot of gum and stamps might be saved.
The Re insurance Co. has a paid-up capital of
£15,050, and another ,015,050 4s callable. Its
investments are above reproach. Some further par-
ticulars follow:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
reb., rniums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
19L> . , £8558 £4855 £3620 56.7 p.c. 42.3 p.c.
Dec.,
1913 .. 8527 4243 3627 49-,7 „ 42.5 „
The expense rate looks heavy, but, as
already mentioned, the organisation, as shown
by the number of branches, seems rather too
large for the business, so far as the business has
got. This concern, like the 1.0. A., has no visible
reserve for unexpired risks. If one-third of the pre-
mium income was regarded as a liability for unex-
pired risks the said liability would amount to
£2842, and the deficit, after paying the dividend
(6 p.c. for 10 months) would be £lOB7.
* * * *
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :—-
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Loss on Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Business, dends. Assets)
1900. . £337,172 £200,000 £9,181 Nil £118,663
Total preliminary expenses to date, £39.116 157,779
1901.. 360,000 205,234 8,078 Nil 165,857
1902.. 360,000 205,039 4,255 Nil 170,112
1903.. 360,000 210,052 4,881 Nil 174 993
1904.. 360,000 214,866 4,703 Nil 179,696
Profit.
1905.. 360,000 214,668 3,828 Nil 175,868
1906.. 360,000 210,546 9,191 Nil 166 677
Capital written off, £65,000 . . 101,677
1907.. 295,000 205,257 10,671 8,750 99,756
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 98,459
1909.. 295,000 205,109 6,090 Nil 92,369
Unexplained reserves, £lB3O .. 90 539
1910.. 295,000 193,318 6,198 4,375 88,716
1911.. 295,000 190,71-1- 6*oBl 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80,574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,066
That needs some explanation. Capital is £295,000,
composed of £195,000 in ordinaries and £lOO,OOO in 8
p.c. prefs., of which 4 p.c. is cumulative; besides
that there are still £172,000 worth of debentures.
The original capital was £260,000, but the pro-
moters collared £lOO,OOO, leaving only £160,000 for
the co. to build its line and carry on with. So
£lOO,OOO more capital was got in, and £200,000
worth of debentures issued as well. With such a
load of debenture interest to pay the ordinaries get
nothing at all, and the preferences occasionally get 4
p.c. as shown in the table. Usually they get nothing at
all, and the co., up to last year, owed them £29,332
in arrears. About the middle of 1913, an arrange-
ment was made whereby the pref. holders should get
some of their accumulated back dividends. They
agreed to forego £14,687 of it, the balance to
be paid thus: all sums under £lO in cash, over £lO
in “Funded Certificates” bearing 6 p.c. to be repaid
in 1923, or before if the co. cares to buy them. The
co. is to put by £5OO a year, beginning in 1915,
towards buying up these certificates, which at
December, 1913, amounted to £14,103; so that
only £542 of the arrears was paid in cash. In the
table on top, this £14,103 is regarded as debentures,
and counted in with them. As this liability now
appears for the first time, things are made to look
worse, though they really are better. Some back
dividend has been paid; and a liability of £14,687
to pref. shareholders is wiped out. An unexplained
addition to the reserve fund is included in the profits.
'The ordinaries are a long way off dividends. Before they
can get a taste the co. has to pay 8 p.c. on pref.
shares (£8000), 6 p.c. on the £14,103 (£846),
£5OO towards repurchasing certificates, a huge wad
of debenture interest, and £10,370 (being the
amount due to the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Co.
for the lease of their railway). The two latter, of
course, come off before the profits are shown in the
table. Even then a 4 p.c. div. on the ords. would
require £3900 ; so that for them to get that within
at least five years the co. must make £14,000 of
profit, and it has never approached that. When
the prefs. have had five yearly 8 p.c. divs., their right
to preference ceases, and they rank with the ordin-
aries, which may then get a taste —but a very small
one.
The co. was formed some 17 years ago, when it
leased the Emu Bay and Mount Bischoff Co.’s Burnie-
Waratah line, and connected it with the mines on
the West Coast. Thus it depends almost entirely on
metals for its living. Metals have been booming of
late, but are easing off now. This shows how the
boom has affected the co.:—
Available Propor-
for Rent, tion Ex-
Working Interest, Re- penses to
Earnings. Expenses, newals, etc. Earnings.
1901 .. £39,005 £25,957 £13,048 66.0 p.c.
1902 . . 42,131 25,289 16,842 60 ~
1903 .. 40,818 23,264 17,554 57 „
1904 . . 42,365 24,382 17,983 57.5 „
1905 .. 50,829 24,731 26,098 48.7 „
1906 .. 60,170 26,654 33,516 44.3 „
1907 .. 65,658 30,746 34,912 46.8 „
1908 .. 57,057 31,519 25,538 55.2 ~
1909 .. 58,533 28,743 29,790 49.1 „
1910 .. 59,229 29,069 30,160 49.1 „
1911 .. 60,761 30,825 29,936 50.7 „
1912 . . 66,400 31,586 34,814 47.5
1913 .. 67,386 33,256 34,130 49.3 „
The co. would have done even better this year but
for the fact that the Zeehan smelters were closed
down for several months. And this will no doubt
affect the current year’s figures as well, “but,”
the manager remarks, “I anticipate a gradual im-
provement towards the end of the year.” And the
co. could do with one.
* * * #
The City Electric Light Co. (Bris-
bane) :
Deficit
(“Purchase
Account,
£35,258,”
not re-
rotal garded as
Profits. Ord. Pref. Div. an Asset).
, £ Div. Div. £ £
July, 1908.. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 2,097 19,652
Jan., 1909.. £7,975 81 „ 6 „ 3,011 14,688
July, 1909.. 7,848 9 „ 6 „ 3,218 10,058
Jan., 1910. . 9,157 104 „ 6 „ 3,909 4,810
July, 1910.. 8,600 12 „ 6 „ 4,549 759
Jan., 1911.. 10,537 121 „ 6 „ 4,998
July, 1911.. 10,284 121 „ 6 „ 5,222 9,842
_ Deficit.
Reserves disappear (£18,747).. 8,905
Jan., 1912.. 8,364 10 p.c. 6 p.c. 5,740 6,281
July, 1912.. 10,818 121 „ 6 „ 7,329 2^792
r Reserves.
Jan., 1913.. 13,448 121 „ 6 „ 7,639 3,017
Reserves transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 16 f1 983
Jan., 1914.. 22,198 121 p.c. 6 p.c. 19,179 13’964
Accounts are now made up annually, and during the
past 12 months big changes have been brought about.
A year ago the directors promised to hand out 40,000
C ? n r , lb V.V Ilg , s^ares > P a >d to 10s. in proportion to
shareholders’ present holding. In addition to that,
more new capital has been got in, presumably in hard
cash, bringing the total from £129,824 to £173,380
Although about £30,000 of this new capital has
been put into mains, etc., the co. has not yet felt
any benefit; but next year’s figures should show
some improvement. The co. still has a large wad of
its capital not represented by any tangible assets—
the Purchase Account,” £35,258, the price paid to
the Brisbane Electric Supply Co. for the goodwill
°vu e ,, some ei &hUyears ago, and against
which there is a “Sinking Fund” of £7500. The
co. adds to this at the rate of £lOOO a year. As a
matter of fact, the alleged sinking fund is not much
more than an ordinary reserve, and the purpose
would be served just as well, beside giving a more
tidy appearance to the balance-sheet, if it were
me !' e y written off the Purchase Account each year
and the written-down amount shown. Amon» the
other reserve funds—there are quite a crowd of them
To.nr e v ! ’, Eeplacenient and Contingency Account,
£2520 which would not be much use if the co.
suddenly found itself called on to make any exten-
sive renewals, etc. The co.’s right to supply Bris-
bane with light expires in 1940, when the City Coun-
cil may buy it out on paying a reasonable sum for
everything but goodwill. If the council decides not
to do business the co. can go on for another 10
years, and so on for 10-year periods until the coun-
cil does decide that the people ought to have their
own electric light. It is perhaps with a view to
smothering up the fattening dividend rate, and thus
dodging hostile attention -that the issue of bonus
shares was made. 'The co.’s cash position is'strong.
Liabilities amount to £12,374 and liquid assets (in-
cluding stock) to £26,064, besides which there is a
considerable amount in freeholds.
■' * . * *
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia :
Total Deficit,
xt t „ Out- including
Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912. . £10,989 £18,918 £3715 £22,633 £19,644
Dec.,
1913.. 23,851 19,809 6350 26,159 21,952
This is a proprietary concern with a nominal capital
of £250,000. Of this, £71,500 is issued, and
£44,000 is paid up. Of the £44,000, . £14,952 is
represented by accumulated loss through the out-
goings in the early stages of - the business being
greater than the earnings, and £7OOO is set down
against the goodwill of a very mild little institu-
tion which the co. purchased—the National Provi-
dent Life Assurance Co. This leaves £22 048 of
paid capital intact. The purchase of the goodwill
of the National Provident Life Assurance Co. was
always something of a mystery. There is no sign
at all in the first balance-sheet of any assets trans-
ferred by the purchased concern. It certainly trans-
ferred its business, but the whole receipts that year
were £10,989, and as the new concern paid £18,918
of its own good money in order to earn that
£10,989, it surely earned most of it off its own bat.
Where, then, was the business or assets for which the
new co. paid the National Provident £BOOO in addi-
tion to taking over its liabilities? Somehow the
thing doesn’t look a very good bargain. If the new
concern earned less than £ll,OOO in its first year
by its own efforts and the aid of an established
business bought for £BOOO, and then in its second
year added nearly £13,000 to this (making the
total income almost £24,000) without buying any
expensive, ready-made business—well, it seemed to
get on a great deal better without buying ready-
made businesses.
Seeing that the new concern lost £11,G44 in its
first year (or part of a year) and only £2308 in
its second year (or rather 13 months), it is certainly
improving. But before its position is satisfactory
it has (1) to stop losing money; (2) to accumulate
£21,952 in order to wipe out the accumulated
deficit; (3) to accumulate a sufficient reserve to
cover its existing policy liabilities, whatever they
may amount to. Of the last year’s income £6875
was ordinary life premiums, and they certainly repre-
sent considerable of a liability. The industrial,
provident, sick-pay, accident and guarantee business
which represents the great bulk of the receipts pro-
bably stands for a very small amount in the way of
future commitments. These last constitute a scrappy
odd-and-end sort of trade that isn’t easy to define.
The assets —especially the £lO,OOO in Government
stock, £3500 in bank deposits, and £3004 in mort-
gages seem good enough. But however good they
are, no one is likely to suppose that there was, or is,
any need for the Life Insurance Co. of Australia.
A new proprietary company isn’t founded in this
much-insured country to fill a great, long-felt want.
It starts in the hope of finding dividends for its
shareholders and in the certainty of finding billets
for a while at least, for its staff. It sets another
crowd of people struggling in offices or clamoring at
householders’ doors to take the crust of business
out of the mouths of previous people in the same
line of crust-hunt, and consequently live people are
often racing after and trying to live upon the miser-
able little policy which can’t do more than support
one person. It is a sad, unproductive sort of enter-
prise, and the number of new companies that perish
by the wayside, and sell their bones for a trifle to
the next comer, is lamentable. And, meanwhile, Aus-
tralia is so short of bootmakers that the number of
boots has to import beggars description.
Williamstown Gas Co. (Vic.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
_££ £ £ £
June, 1906.. 1519 9 p.c.= 1125 250 144 6,321
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 „ „ 1125 350 312 6,633
June, 1907. . 1653 9 „ „ 1125 250 278 6,911
Dec., 1907.. 1894 10 „ ~ 1250 350 294 7,205
June, 1908.. 1860 10 „ „ 1250 350 260 7,465
Dec., 1908.. 1923 10 „ „ 1250 250 423 7,888
June, 1909.. 2213 10 „ „ 1250 963 8,851
Dec., 1909.. 2152 10 „ „ 1250 902 9,753
June, 1910.. 2204 10 „ „ 1250 954 10,707
Dec., 1910.. 2273 10 „ „ 1250 1023 11,730
June, 1911.. 2543 10 ~ ~ 1250 1293 13,023
Dec., 1911.. 2946 10 „ „ 1250 1696 14,719
June, 1912.. 3265 10 „ „ 1250 2015 16,734
Dec., 1912.. 3301 10 „ „ 1250 2051 18,785
June. 1913.. 3220 10 „ „ 1250 1970 20.755
Assets apparently written up, £4245 .. 25,000
Transferred to capital, £25,000 ..
Dec., 1913.. 3225 6 p.c.= 1500 1725 1,725
The reserves as at June 30, 1913, were as follows: —
General reserve fund £5,300
General renewal fund 9,004
Meter renewal fund 1,621
Depreciation fund for works on
leasehold 2,800
Unappropriated profit 2,030
Total £20,755
Whether a revaluation was lately made of the assets
does not transpire. If the writing-up was done as the
result of a revaluation, then the items should now
appear differently in the balance-sheet. They actu-
ally appear in the old form —as, for example,
“Plant on freehold, at cost, less depreciation.”
The leasehold property seems to have been bumped
up hardest. The only excuse is that the lease has
16 years to run, and that plant and buildings “remain
the property of the co. at the termination of the
lease,’ though if the lease were not renewed plant
and buildings would no doubt have to be dis-
mantled ; and that would take more than twopence
off their value. The co. may in past years have
been stuffing profits away into extensions, etc., nom-
inally as a set-off against depreciation; and in that
case the capitalisation of hidden reserves might be
justified; but there was no reason whatever to sus-
pect that any profit was being thus stuffed away.
On the contrary, it looked very much as though the
visible renewal funds were the only provision made
to cover wear and tear. In those circumstances the
capitalisation of reserves to such an extent that the
capital is doubled was unwarranted, on the evidence
available. No doubt the co. has been doing verv
well:—
Dec., 1908. Dec., 1913.
Liquid assets £4195 £8877
Liabilities 1112 4814
Surplus .. ..£3083 £4063
Thus, no new capital having been got in meantime,
the co. has out of profits (1) paid its dividend,
(2) paid for extensions and repairs and renewals, and
(3) in five years put by £9BO. Whether that allows
a fair thing for depreciation of plant, etc., depends
on the money spent on extensions; and the only
way we can judge of that is by noting that whereas
in the latter half of 1908 the revenue from gas-
sales, etc., was £4367, it was £lO,BOB last half-
year—a growth which suggests that the co. has
added pretty considerably to its mains, etc. As to
the dividend, the 6 p.c. on the doubled capital looks
easily earned; but it has to be noted that £l4OO
of the alleged surplus profit is absorbed by reserves
for depreciation, so it is doubtful whether the true
profit is very much in excess of the dividend now
paid.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.) :
Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1902 ..£29.957 Nil £ 24,973 £11,652
1903 . . 62,999 24 p.c. = £B,OOO 22.469 44,182
1904 . . 518 21 „ „ 8,000 20,760 15,940
1905 .. 51,354 2£ „ „ 8,000 20,646 38.648
1906 . . 160,122 25 ~ ~ 80,000 27,972 90,798
1907 . . 49,835 43f „ „ 140,000 Nil 633
1908 .. 46,351 5 ~ ~ 16,000 22,517 8,467
1909 .. 42,908. 71 „ ,; 24,000 7,374) „
Income-tax arrears .. 16,332 /
Deficit.
1910 .. 3,910 5 p.c. = 16,000 8,421
Reserves
1911 .. 37,056 21 „ „ 8,000 20,635
1912 . . 88,438 18f „ „ 60,000 8,000 41,073
1913 .. 54,166 174 „ „ 56,000 39,239
There are no special happenings about this ancient
and respectable show for the past year. Despite a
great deal of expensive work the cost of production
per ton of copper has declined a little, as shown
hereunder:—
1907 .. £73 17 9 | 1911 .. £5l 12 5
1908 .. 54 16 8 I 1912 .. 56 18 9
1909 .. 53 3 11 I 1913 .. 56 15 10
1910 .. 54 11 2 |
A fall in the value of copper, which is a very
precarious metal, has affected the profits, but they
are still very good.


Home Rule excitement simmers up
J ,Oi l in S"Point. And the best hope is in
that_ peace-loving common sense which is
inspired to its best efforts by the genial
spirit of King George IV. top-notch whisky.*
All that is necessary in order to obtain a copy of
Marcus Clarke’s latest catalogue, “Our Travelling
Salesman,” is to dron the firm a note with vour name
and address. It is cheaper than buying the S.. M.
Herald— and more interesting.
810-SHOWMEN!
"THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
1 it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.” Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George Street,
Sydney.
cv
THE
BEST WAY
to ensure satisfaction '
when ordering: Conveyor
Belting?, Hose, Packing's,
etc.. Is to specify
'DUNLOP
MINING & ENGINEERING J
"GOODS
You can then rely on JL.ONG
SERVICE.
TENDERS and SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
220 pairs Catalogue on application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
Melbourne, Sydney,
V Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
Wellington, Christchurch,
*
till
Mine managers and engineers contemplating Re-
inforced concrete construction should write for par-
ticulars of the Indented Steel Bar, which gives the
greatest bond, and is the strongest and cheapest re-
inforcement on the market. Used by the N. S.
Wales and Queensland railways for bridges, by the
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board for elevated re-
servoirs, by the N. S. Wales Government Architect,
and by all the leading architects. Should guaranteed
designs be required for concrete structures, our ex-
pert will be pleased to furnish plans and descrip-
tions. Apply, Wm. Adams and Co., Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne and Brisbane.*
For rapid and accurate sizing of samples, the
Hoover Rapid Laboratory Sizer is unsurpassed. An
ordinary hand test over 12 different mesh screens
takes about 10 hours to complete, the Hoover Sizer
will make the same test in about half an hour. By
the use of one of these Sizers the saving in time
would, in a very short while, cover the small initial
cost of the machine. The machine can be dressed
with any series of screens. The Austral Otis Eng.
Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, will be pleased to furnish
particulars.* [4
* * * *
Extract from Financier, dated London, September
2, 1911: “The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is well recognised as an institution which
typifies the enterprise and energy of the land of its
birth, and not only in Australasia but in Great
Britain and South Africa it has proved itself one
of the most progressive of the great Life Offices.”*
* * * *
PIONEER WOOD PIPE is manufactured only from
the highest-grade Oregon, which has been proved, by
long experience, to be the timber best suited to the
purpose. As water preserves wood, this piping will
last indefinitely. Catalogue from the Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., 57 York Street, Sydney (Head Office).*
* * * *
Amongst orders received since the New Year by
our Brisbane Branch are the following Suction and
Towns Gas Engines : Geo. Stupart, Esq. ; Maryborough,
49 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting; Maclcay Harbor
Board, 43 b.h.p., for Stone Crushing ; Dr. Voss, Rock-
hampton, two—each 17 b.h.p., for Electric Lighting;
R. H. Treweeke, Goondiwindi, 17 b.h.p., for Sheep-
shearing ; Mrs. Devaney, Gladstone, 13 b.h.p., for
Electric Lighting ; whilst at the present time they are
erecting a 73 b.h.p. Suction Gas Engine and Plant
for Messrs. Harris and Co., Rockhampton, for Electric
Lighting purposes. R. Hornsby and Sons, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Brisbane.*
The highest returns for all kinds of residues are
obtained from Harrington’s Ltd., of 386 George-
street, Sydney, who buy large quantities of jewellers’
sweeps, polishings, handwash and lemel, process
workers’ residues, plating baths and any other
materials containing gold, silver or platinum. Assays
are executed for jewellers within two or three hours,
and prospectors and others- are assured of immediate
attention. All kinds of analytical and metallurgical
work can be executed promptly, and advice given on
all branches of industrial chemistry and metallurgy.
The whole of the work is directed by a qualified
analyst and metallurgist from Johnson & Sons, Lon-
don, Assayers and Refiners to the Bank of England,
H.M. Mint, the Council of India, etc., etc. Direct
shipments of large parcels of sweeps, residues, ores,
etc., can be sent direct to Johnson & Sons by arrange-
ment.*
J. Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.*
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydnej'.*
* * * *
Water-Supply Engineers will be interested to learn
that further evidence proving the durability of W. I.
and Steel Pipes when coated by the Asphaltum pro-
cess, has just been obtained by the engineers of the
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works. Certain
alterations were made to the main which supplies the
City of South Melbourne with water, and consequently
some pipes were taken up. These pipes were made in
the year 1889, and were coated with Asphaltum com-
position in the usual way, and they were laid in ground
that was particularly unfavorable to the preservation
of any unprotected metal, being originally swampy
land, containing much vegetable matter, and filled
with tidal dredgings. On examination, these 24-year-
old pipes were found to be in an excellent state of
preservation, and the Board’s engineers were so satis-
fied with their condition that they decided to use
them again. They were, therefore, removed to.
the works of Messrs. Mephan, Ferguson Proprietary
Limited, at Footscray, Victoria, where these 24-year-
old pipes were cleaned, retested, and recoated with-
Asphaltum composition in a new and improved pro-
cess. They are now being relaid in a position where-
they will have to withstand a working pressure of'
1351 b. to the square inch. That the Asphaltum pro-
cess for coating pipes is rust-proof and thoroughly
efficacious is proved by the foregoing.*
H.M.A.S. Australia, now in Australian waters,
is fitted entirely with Babcock and Wilcox Water-
tube Boilers, similar to the H.M.S. New Zea
land and other Dreadnoughts recently built for the
Admiralty.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign Patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Melbourne, and
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write us for In-
ventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H. B. Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
mining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun’s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 grain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
grain ; weight; pocket transits ; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles; chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Britain tin sluicing co. (N.S.W.)
hands out another shilling on March 28 This dis-
tribution is No. 41. the G.B. P|?]\'™jked 164
hours, and the Y-Water plant 374 hours for a
return of 14 tons of black tin. Last year the Emma-
ville district produced 820 tons of black tin worth
£lO6 444 an increase of 76 tons compared with
1912, and the Tingha district 711 tons, worth
£93,431, a reduction of 81 tons. There are 77
plants at work in N.S.W., and the total tin ore
recovered was 1819 tons, valued at £239,908, an
increase of 198 tons and £16,145 over the return
for 1912.
* * * *
Lord Roberts, Sailor’s Falls (Vic.), is
the fortunate possessor of a 10ft. lode at No. 1 level,
but it doesn't boast of more than fair gold. This
does not spell good stuff in Victoria. No. 2 level
seems to be as poverty-stricken as little Bobs,
though that co. claims a 15ft. formation. Some
odd reasoning goes on over this show. Because a
leg is met in a crosscut, and because some decent
prospects have been got from surfacing 300 ft. to
the north, the cutting of the leg is a good develop-
ment. Talk of this kind is better suited to the
green-room than the Stock Exchange, yet it gets a
hearing.
* * * *
The Hercules, Rosebery (Tas.), has been
a smudge ever since Blakemore cut down the ore
reserves to 110,000 tons, and since Weinberg didn’t
float it on the Continent of Europe. The assays of
the cores read well, but diamond drills have a nasty
knack of representing the best, and not the average,
of the lode. If the cores are put on the course of
the shoot the drill very often follows the line of
least resistance, and so picks up the rich and friable
ore. Klug and Rutter Clarke seem to have been
glancing round Rosebery, but haven’t told the world
whether they think it might dip into the Ilerculcs-
Rosebery-Tasmanian copper pool. Meanwhile, 8., M.
and Co.’s satellites are converging in nor’-west Tas-
mania. After a wait of 20 years, that district may
have another flutter on the strength of the Howard
Mineral Separation processes.
* * * *
Mount Lyell (Tas.) hadn’t done any de-
velopment since the fire till it started out to tell of
what is happening in the Comstock lease. There a
bore or two, or, maybe, a drive has got into some
good ore over the North Lyell boundary, and there
has been, or is to be, a second advent of Bowes
Kelly and Colin Templeton in Queenstown to measure
up the make of bornite. What the bores fail to
prove is the underlie of the shoot of ore. The pitch
is to the north, and, consequently, into the Comstock
lease. But the pitch and underlie are very differ-
ent matters, for the latter carries an ore body holus-
bolus one way or the other. If the Mount Lyell
plans are to be relied on, the pitch of the North
Lyell shoots are to the east, and it is the absence
of any data as to the underlie —not as to the pitch—
that makes all the press puffs about the North Lyell-
Comstoek development very flimsy.
* * * *
The South German’s (Vic.) miserable
crushing smote the share market very hard. Yet
Maldon revives the old yarn of much gold
IT j the mineral. But there is very little profit left
after treatment charges and other deductions are
met, and whimpering won’t stop calls. The Bulletin
tlr through has insisted that these had to come if
the Baxter shoot of stone didn’t live down to the
bottom, which it didn’t.
* * * *
The Tasmania, Beaconsfield (Tas.). was
thought bv John Taylor and Son and Frecheville, the
big gold expert, to be a mining plum when they
took it over from the old Launceston Co. nearly a
decade back. Over £600,000 in divs. had come out
it , le re^ P°t and a big shoot of gold showed in
the bottom of the east and west lode. So it seemed
.at if a pump big enough to beat the water was
installed, the reward would be a bag full of shekels.
About a quarter of a million has gone in this little
job and in opening up some fresh lifts, but all that
has been learnt is that when Launceston sold its big
wad of paid-up shares it ratted out at the most
critical moment. Manager Heathcote told London
long since _ that erratic and shrinking values and
high pumping cost made things look gloomy. Now
Arthur Llewellyn, of John Taylor and Son’s staff,
adds as a third factor the uplift in wages. So he
won t let London sink another lift to try its luck
deeper down. The remaining ore will be beaten out
and the residues on the surface treated, after which
Beaconsfield will presumably become an orchard
patch.
* * » *
The bottom of the big paddock cleaned up
by the Pioneer, Bradshaw’s Creek (Tas.), yielded
well and raised the total that this mine has rendered
up to 5046* tons of stream tin. To get this 6,106,500
c-üb. yards of drift have been sluiced. The average
all over has been 1.851 b. stream tin per cub. yard,
whereas last six months the average was 1.791 b.
Costs are bedrock at 5Jd. The next paddock will be
deeper, but there won’t be room for Cecil Ryan to
whittle down expenses much more. As side 'shows,
he has the South Pioneer lease and the Argonaut
somewhere on the East Coast. The latter is a shallow
strip of good wash amid a body of worked ground
that was rich in its day.
* * * *
North Mount Lyell has bolted. These are
the published results from a borehole from No. 1
drive at the 1100 ft. level:—
12*ft. averaging 10.5 p.c. copper.
15ft. averaging 15.2 p.c. copper.
10ft. averaging 17.8 p.c. copper.
2ft. averaging 4.6 p.c. copper.
The borehole followed the northern extension of No.
Tl7l. ’ 100 ft. over the Comstock boundary.
'• hether it ended in country is left in doubt. The
North Lyell workings are steadily eating into the
Comstock ground, and rich ore is being won. No.
22 stope, 850 ft. level, is also reported to be gouging
out something above, the ordinary from the Comstock
end. The ore-body, into which the workings are now
advancing, is not the same as that worked by the
former Comstock co. This latter is over a mile away
to the north, and is being probed into to give some
information as to what is best to do with it. Like
the North Lyell, it is siliceous, but is only half as
rich in copper. Open cutting and flotation, however,
may do the trick. The Mount Lyell Co. is in a pretty
solid position, and reports the mines to be in first-
rate trim for a large output. With plenty of labor
available, the costs should again become reasonable.
* * * *
The alleged discovery of the Mount
Morgan lode in the Mount Morgan Extended’s ground
is interesting even if values are not high. The
point to be decided is whether payable ore will be
found in quantity. According' to the map of Mount
Morgan by J M Newman and A. F. Campbell-
Brown, the material being mined by Mount Morgan
is an enriched pipe in a much larger mass of miner-
g*?s®- wh ich is really the lode. The
Extended Co. has only a small corner of the mineral-
ised area lying between the big co.’s holding and
i! e -,? n .^ e west. The section also
shows the granite dipping towards the Mount Morgan
V°:,, s . * ea £ s e It is well known that diamond-
drilling by the Extended Co. penetrated this granite.
Ihe question therefore resolves itself into the pro-
bability of finding a second enriched pipe in the
Extended Co.’s small block of mineralised ground.
The geological work referred to above suggests that
the Mount Morgan pipe gets poor or cuts out at a
comparatively shallow depth, and secondary enrich-
ment is suggested as the explanation of the rich
ore. On the other hand, there seems ample room
for further enriched pipes in the Mount Morgan
Co.’s ground north of the Extended’s holding, though
the diamond-drilling recently done did not find
much.
•.<■***
By this time Mount Morgan has very few
bosses of the Richard regime left. The last two to go are
Dibdin and White, both Queenslanders. Dibdin has
been with the co. for 24 years, and worked his way
up to be chief engineer. But, of course, he didn’t
know as much about Mount Morgan as an imported
Yankee named Garred, so he was asked to take
a back seat. He packed up and left. The
other man, White, bossed the concentrating plant.
He got the shortest notice to quit of the lot —he
dropped dead at the mine.
The closing down of Great Fitzroy (Q.)
draws attention once again to the question of the
efficacy of flotation processes for copper ores. The
class of ore for which a cheap process is required is
one that would provide big tonnagps—being worth
about 40s. per ton (24 p.c. copper and 24dwt. gold)
and containing 00 to 60 or 65 p.c. of silica. The
cost of “fluxing” these ores is high, the mixture after
fluxing gives a big lot of material to be smelted, and
the slag losses in smelting are very high. Lyell
got over the difficulty so long as the “flux” ore from
the parent mine contained sufficient copper, gold and
silver to counteract those objections. Mount Morgan
hoped to do the same by using the Many Peaks flux
ore. Fitzroy has been struggling to make ends meet
by using expensive siliceous ironstone flux contain-
ing no valuable metals. This fact is hardly compati-
ble with the “gag” that the flotation process gives
a product with a high flux value. It might do so
if the ore were ground fine enough, but there are
objections to this procedure: (1) the cost of grind-
ing everything, as compared with taking out a big
slice in a “wet” mill after a preliminary crushing,
(2) the royalty, (3) the gold loss. Then there is
the problem of smelting the fine concentrates. Fitz-
roy installed the Dwiglit-Lloyd 'sintering process,
but experience has generally proved that double-
treatment is required in these machines—which costs
money. Besides all this, smelting losses, say 13
p.c. of the copper, must be added. So one is forced
to the conclusion that a combined concentration and
smelting recovery of 75 p.c. all round would be
pretty good work. On a 2.5 p.c. copper ore 75 p.c.
is 1.9. In other words, it takes 53 tons to make a
ton of copper, and mining, concentration (including
royalty) and smelting, etc., would cost £7O to £BO
per ton of copper. Also, 75 p.c. of 40s. is 305., so
53 tons of 40s. ore would yield £BO. The profit is,
therefore, problematic.
Fitzroy, however, has the Laloki (Papua) string
to its bow. This ore is worth about 60s. per ton, is
a perfect flux —containing only 5 p.c. of silica —and
won’t cost more than 40s. in the bins. Roughly,
every ton of Laloki ore it uses will give it £1 pro-
fit. It will probably use a ton for every ton of its
own ore it smelts.
* * * *
The Beehive Tin Mining Co., whose
property at Red Rock, near Stanthorpe (Queens-
land) promised so well, has been unable, so far, to
market its wealth on account of the lack of water
for sluicing. The plant has been ready for a couple
of months, and the tin is undoubtedly there in large
quantities, but their luck has been out during the
recent Queensland rainfall —the rain has never once
hit the mine in sufficient quantities. Even with a
good wet season, however, the problem does not
appear to be solved, for it has yet to be proved that
the existing dam Will hold water —there has been
no opportunity of a thorough test. A fair temporary
rainfall would give some of the surrounding shows a
chance to develop, and the outcome might be a
combined effort to draw water from the permanent
Severn River—three miles direct —and this would
appear to be the only satisfactory solution of the
difficulty. It is a wonder that some combined effort
has not been inaugurated earlier; it should pay. The
most interesting belt of country close to Red Rock
seems to be capable of rising to the occasion in
common with quite a number of Queensland mineral
areas. In connection with the latest discovery is molyb-
denite. This particular show is well spoken of, and
forms part of a small area of the belt, from which tin
and wolfram (Lord Nolan Co.) and copper, zinc,
lead and silver ores (Silver Queen Co.) have been
worked on a small scale, and there is still plenty
of room for prospecting work.
* * * *
The coal output for Queensland last year
topped 1,000,000 tons for the first time, the indivi-
dual increases varying from 11 p.c. at Ipswich to
40 p.c. at Clermont. In the latter field the Blair
Athol mine, with its immense seam, increased its
output to over 93,000 tons, worth 7s. 7d. at the
pit mouth. The 230 miles of railway to port dis-
counts what should otherwise be the largest producer
in the State. The backward feature of the industry
appears to be a lack of enterprise in coke making.
A little is produced in the Ipswich field, but only
the simplest propositions are tackled, whereas by
judicious amalgamation of coals and up-to-date plant,
much profitable advance could be made. A little
forethought might have secured the smelter supply
for Cloncurry and Mount Morgan, the latter of
which was recently driven to make a five years’ con-
tract with the Illawarra (N.S.W.) ovens.
* * * *
Gyrupie (Queensland) is hoping that a
good find of slate country above the bottom level of
Amalgamated Monkland and Glanmire Deeps will
enliven things. The slate is expected 30ft. above
the level, so it will soon be known whether the
Great Eastern reef will pay in the deeps. It is
only a gamble. No. 3 North Columbia surprised
everyone by crushing 305 tons for 388 oz. gold and
No. 2 Great Eastern crushed 1455 tons from the
Inglewood reef above 2000 ft. for 3040 z. and 66 tons
for 2550 z. from a leader at the 1320 ft. level; total,
5590 z. gold. The average from the Inglewood—
a 6ft. reef —is over 4dwt., and should prove payable,
for the Scottish Gympie pays dividends from sdwt.
stone.
* * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) has been deep-
ening, its No. 1 shaft whenever water troubles per-
mitted. Last month it started driving north and
south on a pyritic ore body at 500 ft. A crosscut
was also put out east, and latest report is the dis-
covery of 3ft. of cellular pyrites, carrying subsulphide
of copper, and assaying 5 p.c. The co. has hopes that
the find will turn out to be the East lode, which
was the object of No. 1 shaft’s journey. Earlier
developments at No. 2 shaft showed that this lode,
though patchy, was going stronger than was ex-
pected. The co. urgently needs more basic ore, and
is in stern chase of it.
* * * *
Mount Cannindah Copper Mines (Queens-
land), that shocking old disappointment or sham
which had so many wonderful indications in the air
and such mountains of rich ore in perdition, has
produced another annual balance-sheet —the eighth.
Revenue for the year, £l3. Expenses, including
depreciation, £263. Loss, £250. Cash remaining
on hand, £3B. Accumulated shortage, £7975. Divi-
dends, nil. Hopes, apparently nil. Reasons for
keeping the old thing out of the knacker’s yard,
seemingly nil.
The report of the Queensland Under-Secre-
tary for Mines for 1913 is interesting, but not alto-
gether cheering. The decline in the gold production
( £849,210) brings the State into line with the
rest of Australia, and the position of the industrial
metals is summarised thus: “It is in coal alone that
any pronounced and satisfactory advance is apparent.”
A geological survey staff is attached to the Mines
Department, and does excellent work in compiling
statistics and reporting on any new find, but it
would require a keen search of the records to find
survey reports that would encourage the ordinary
investor to take a copper out of his pocket. It
cannot be that all are duffers. So why this overdone
policy of reservation? The staff may have an enthusi-
astic personal opinion of a new show, but the lugubri-
ous policy apparently will not allow them to say so iti
Government publications. There is always some
boulder to get behind in case things go wrong, and
the “private” expert who is inclined to take a risk
is doubted in consequence. So it is not altogether
the “opportunities in other directions” for investments
that is responsible for the almost entire absence of
business in mining stock in local exchanges. There
must be some enthusiasm emanating from head-
quarters.
* * * *
Efforts are being made to realise on some
of the belongings of the defunct Westralian Gold-
fields Ltd. This delusion was first introduced to the
London public in the beginning of 1911, when sub-
scriptions were invited for scrip in a co. of 750,000
£1 shares. The vendors and promoters’ cut was
fixed at £20,000 in cash, £130,000 in cash or paid-
up preference shares, and 375,000 ordinary shares.
For this consideration the vendors, promoters, etc.,
agreed to part with the right, title and interest in a
series of derelicts scattered over the face of the
West, but as only a few thousand shares were applied
for, the flotation was virtually a failure. Later on
£15,000 worth of first mortgage debentures were
taken up, but by whom is not known. A state-
ment of the position of the co. at the end of 1912
is given as a warning to speculators to look twice
before they leap frequently. W.A. expenditure,
£4897 ; London, £3147 : mine development, £1532 ;
preliminary expenses, £11,750; debenture issue
expenditure, £5091; cash, £6023; creditors,
£3727. Thus out of a total outlay of £30,144,
only £1532 was expended in development. Con-
sidering the shows acquired by the co. even that was
waste of money.
* * * *
Latest published opinions of Tindals
(W.A.) : “The lode is at least 10ft. wide at No. 3
level, and as it has been proved in places to be 40ft.,
there is no reason why this thickness should not
prove to be the average... .Over 300 ft. of exposed
lode; values are in and out; they range from l-|dwt.
to Boz., the average indicating it to be a mine of
greater intrinsic worth than the South Kalgurli or
Perseverance... .If it was located on the Golden Mile
it would be boomed sky high for its potential
value.... The mine has great possibilities, and if
only an additional £25,000 could be found (etc.,
etc.) it would in two years be one of the great
mines of W.A.” It seems a pity to spoil the effect
of such a pleasing picture; but still, in justice to the
mine itself and those who are working it, it must
be said again that at best it is only a sdwt. show, and
that, like most other Coolgardie mines, the ground
is hard and the gold shoots short, and as they dip
rapidly, mueh money has to be spent in looking for
payable ore at succeeding levels.
The Melbourne-financed Royal Oak Co.
(W.A.) has just taken 200 oz. out of its Black Range
show, and is getting ready for a desperate attempt
to recover some of the money which has been put
into its particular hole in the ground. Several diffi-
culties have had to be contended with. First of all,
“spewy” ground upset the shaft, and for a time the
workings were lost; then _ the water proved trouble-
some, and when the co. did manage to get a bit of
crushing dirt together the State mill jibbed, and was
unable to treat it. The outlook for shareholders isn’t
very rosy, as the mine is small and not over-rich.
* * * *
Whim Well Copper (W.A.) has closed
down its Murex plant on account of dry weather.
Meantime, there is to be a conference between the
directors and the expert in charge. A circular to
shareholders claims that the process has demonstrated
its ability to concentrate the carbonate ore from the
mine, which is pretty ancient history. But the direc-
tors say that they haven’t yet had time to make up
their minds regarding profits. The circular adds that
the majority of the unissued debentures have been
subscribed. This may indicate a lot—in two quite
different ways.
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) has come
a cropper. Some time ago the output was increased
in order to pay for machinery out of gold won.
This proved too much for the better class of re-
serves, and more capital is now wanted to open up
a fresh lot. Meantime all hands have been given
the walking ticket, and the co. is making prepara-
tions for another reconstruction.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) has had a bit of
a turn up in its Hainault lease. At the 1000 ft.
level the south drive has been extended 23ft. in ore
worth 425. 6d., and an additional 10ft. in stuff aver-
aging a shade under 275. Bore holes put into the
walls show the shoot to be of big width in places
and to assay better than in the drive. Good pros-
pects are also being met with at 875 ft. in the same
lease. There a crosscut from a drive has passed
through a big body of ore which assays up to 60s.
per ton. Manager John Morgan, who has been rest-
ing in Germany for some time, has retired on account
of ill-health, and entered the employ of the Chaffers
—which is partly run by the same crowd —as con-
sulting engineer.
* * * *
Grave doubts as to the future of the Asso-
ciated Northern’s Victorious leases are expressed by
Professor Liveing in his report to the London
Board. The Professor states that the extremely
patchy nature of the values and the irregular width
of the pay ore make even an approximate estimate of
sulphide reserves quite impossible, and he advises
that more development should be done before
a sulphide plant is ordered. This will take at least
eight months to install, and as the co. has run out
of payable oxidised ore, it looks as if no revenue
will be forthcoming from the mine in the interim.
With regard to the upper levels of the property
and the manager’s original estimate of 200,000 tons
of 20s. ore, the Professor says that it is now quite
clear that the grade was slightly over-estimated. He
admits that with a show like the Victorious the
difficulty of sampling is great, and with ore of this
grade the slightest error makes a serious difference.
In the co.’s Iron Duke (Kalgoorlie) lease one party
of tributors unearthed a good patch of ore where the
co. put up two rises, and failed to find anything.
But nearly all the other tributors have had to scratch
pretty hard for a living. The prospect of finding a
new shoot in the mine is considered by the Pro-
fessor to be too remote to warrant further outlay.
• * * •
Waihi (M.L.) paid the usual shilling for
the quarter, but slumps again, for it is pretty Obvious
that, taking the February return (£25,520 from
14,391 tons) as an average, dividends of nearly
£25,000 per quarter must be a strain. Certainly
the Waihi paid £4,582,204 in dividends from
£10,479,294 worth of gold and silver, but the
average grade of the ore was higher than it is now
and costs were lower.
» * * *
We live in an age of business. Economics are
fast becoming a science. There is only one sin, and
that is waste; and disuse and misuse are both forms
of waste. The best brains in the world are now
at work endeavoring to eliminate lost motion and
take up the economic slack. Success turns up ability
to produce the goods. Of vital importance in the
production of goods is the cost of power transmis-
sion in the factory—too often this part of cost is
overlooked till the time-sheet on the job shows the
loss. Let “Pioneer” Leather Belting help you use
every ounce of generated power, and keep your
pulleys running at top speed all the time. Made
from the strongest centre cuts of Australian oak-
tanned leather. It has the required strength and
elasticity that is the soul of belting efficiency It is
suitable for the widest possible range of service, for
it works in the sugar mills of North Queensland
and Fiji, the mining plants at Broken Hill and
lvalgoorlie, and in the timber mills of Southern Tas-
mania. Put your power problems up to us —we’ll
be glad to help with our 55 years of experience.
It costs nothing to get our advice. DO IT KNOW.
Pioneer leather belting is made solely by J. C.
Ludowici and Son Ltd., Pioneer Works, 117 York
Street, Sydney. Agencies in all principal inter-State
cities.*


SIXTEEN DEATHS IN TWO WEEKS.
“When a baby my little girl had diarrhoea, and
as 1C children had died from it in this locality in
two weeks, I was greatly alarmed,” savs Mrs. Alice
Williams, Cressy, Tas. “The doctor could do abso-
lutely nothing for her, but as I am a great believer
in all Chamberlain’s Remedies, I gave her Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, with marvellous
results, for she was soon quite well again.”*
Under
Royal
Warrant
bvc
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE {
CHAMPACNE
Heims
Sir—ii 8?
FARMER’S—
Hairdressing Rooms
for Ladies.
Following we quote our list of moderate
charges for expert workmanship in ITairdrers
mg and Massage
Plain HAIRDRESSING.
With Marcel Waving
Marcel Waving ..
Cutting
Singeing
Shampooing
With Plain Dressing
With Marcel Waving
Electric Hair Treatment—-
One Treatment
Course of five
„ „ massage.
J? ace— One Treatment
Course of nine
Scalp— One Treatment
Course of five
Bust—- One Treatment
Course of five ..
CHIROPODY, each foot from
GIRLS’ HAIRCUTTING
FARMER’S, SYDNEY,
Pitt, Market and George Streets.
£
0
o
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
0
BUCHANANS
Black (Q. White.
/ //
A GRAND SPIRIT
“ Black & White ” is indeed a “ grand spirit.”
Matured for years in Scotland before shipment.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sidney, March 23, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
News of tlie approaching Sydney citizens’
banquet, as a farewell to G.-G. Denman, will
be received with hostile grunts of dissatisfac-
tion from the average citizeness. She will
only be permitted (perhaps) to be present in
small and carefully-selected numbers.
Herded together in a balcony the citizeness
will yawn behind a heavy portcullis of flower-
ing or densely leafy foliage. Hour after
hour will drag its weary way across the por-
tals of the night. The average male feeder
will make the average after-banquet speech.
He will say lie is glad to be there. He will
say that it is the happiest moment of his
life, only tinged with regret. He will remark
that no doubt the G.-G. is sorry to leave.
Processions of food will be brought from some
culinary tabernacle. Soup will be more
numerous than autumn leaves, and the rest
of the bill of fare quite as interminable as
the Ancient Mariner. Meanwhile the unfed
citizeness (if graciously permitted to look
on), will gradually sink into a troubled sleep
behind the festoons thoughtfully erected to
bide her presence and her lack of refresh-
ment. The Denmans were popular with the
multitude during their brief reign in the old
Macquarie-street house. The multitude
ought to be allowed to take a hand in some
more general form of farewell than the joy
of reading (in next morning’s papers) that
Alderman Smithjones unfortunately overset
the cruet.
That long, delicate-looking streak of the
Peerage, Earl Grey, is going to stalk the
stalactites in Jenolan Caves at an early
date. The three Greys, mother, father and
daughter, will, be assisted in this mission by
Governor Strickland and garnished by an
A.D.C., who will hold the umbrella up be-
tween them and the sun. They’ll be up with
the morning magpie to catch a special train
at 7 a.m. or thereabouts. This bounces them
into the Mount Victoria station while the
Day is young and the hair of Morn is still
in its curl-papers. The party will then be
whisked off to do a certain number of caves
before its component parts are caught and
fed at midday. After taking in refreshments
they will renew their underground explora-
tions, as if they were moles or gnomes, till
they, are again caught, put into cars, and
flurried off to the train. Later the team of
Greys goes westward by train, towards the
flushed countenance of the setting sun.
Ice creams fainted quietly away on small
slabs of crockery while Mrs. Premier Hol-
man’s farewell tea-party to Mrs. Martin
Donohoe drifted round a shady nook of Par-
liament House. Mrs. Percy Hunter, who
was to have had half the goodbye cake, was
not well enough to be present. So the
blithe Mrs. Donohoe, and her saucy dimples,
and her French hat, and her Australian blue
frock, had the floor to herself. Mrs. Holman
rounded up her guests with considerable tact.
The wild scramble for foocL. which is usu-
ally a feature of these alleged festivities, was
missing,, and the party was gently but firmly
put in its place. The guests were neatly
labelled and headed off to the small round
tables at which they were to sit and fortify
themselves with much and innumerable Buii.
In the steamy warmth of last week, a wilder-
noss of Bun was only an added burden to
the flesh, and the evanescent ice cream was
eagerly chased to its last drop.
Mrs. Clunies-Ross (some day I’ll call her
o', 1 - ace or Sevres china) and Mrs
Schmidlin, sisters of the guest of honor at
lr’ s e^oe P al "hy, were distinctly present.
Mrs. Barraclougfl, a cousin of these sisters
three, smiled serenely at a table where two
members of the fourth estate munched the
cake of peace, with Mr. Clunies-lioss as
referee in ease of accidents. Miss Mabel
Walker, an amiable blonde, was another
non-combatant at this board. Mrs. Trefle
tossed some handsome mulligatawny feathers
at a higher altitude of the feast, where Rose
Scott, Ethel Turner Curlewis and other star
guests were.enthroned beside the View. The
view at this end of Parliament House is
mostly lawn. (By squinting hard it is just
possible to look round one corner of the
View and see a politician playing bowls.)
Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald was one of three or
four male persons. Their serious sac suits
gave a ballast to the dressing, which was
summery and frivolous. Mr. Fitzgerald had
a Town-Planni'ng expression in his eye.
Premier Holman looked in at the Madge
Donohoe farewell.
Bondi-Waverley made glad and joyful
noises with a brass band on Saturday after-
noon. The event was the opening' of the
new School of Arts in those hyphenated sub-
urbs. Some of the inhabitants stood on the
footpath to drink in the music of the brazen
instruments, while as many more as could
summon admission dockets to their aid
passed round to a sandy backyard, or School
of Arts hinterland. Here they gripped a
chair and sat down to wait patiently the
arrival of the local nobility and gentry and
politicians who were to reign in great maj-
esty on the platform. Premier Holman, who
was as late as two-tliirds of the company,
was handed a gold key to unlock the front
door of the premises. This key, by the wish
of the committee, is to be forged or ham-
mered into a brooch for Mrs. Premier Hol-
man. (The useless foundation-stone trowel,
by the way, might also be melted down into
some kind of gaud.)
President Loewenthal, who beamed behind
a large, blue committee tag, was on his legs
during the greater part of the afternoon. I
forget the exact number of speeches in which
he thanked nearly every man, woman, child
and dog in Waverley-Bondi for the noble
part they had played in rearing the “mag-
nificent building that stood before them” (it
couldn’t run away, of course, and it couldn’t
stand behind them, unless they turned
round). Finally, in his 43rd round, he
breathed the wish that he could write
the name “Woman” in electric signs or some-
thing across the sky. (Wouldn’t this upset
the Navigation ActV) The resonant voice of
Holman made a few brief remarks and an
allusion to the pastime of making £5OOO out
of nothing—as the committee appeared to
have done, with the help of a mortgage. D.
Levy, M.L.A., was mistaken for Albert Goldie
at this ceremony, by the way. In a dash
of orators for the front, Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.A., as member for the School of Arts—
I mean the district—dredged a mild speech,
presumably from the depths of his trousers
pockets, with both hands, to tell the N.S.W.
Premier how delighted he was to see him.
Naturally, he would be.
Sydney’s Mayoress, Mrs. R. W. Richards,
is president of the Olympic Ball Committee.
This august body meets in council in the
Town Hall on March 26. The object, of
course, is to get cash. Said cash is to be
added to the £lO.OOO required for the exhibi-
tion of Australian brawn and muscle at
Berlin in 1916.
Mr. Scott, Premier of a spot called Sas-
katchewan (Canada), is at present exchang-
ing ideas with the local politician. Sas-
katchewan is a frozen place, and got its
name owing to the sound the inhabitant
made when he acquired a cold, which was
always, or even more numerous than that.
The benefit matinge last week in aid of
the Royal Hospital for Women and the
Renwick Ditto for Sick Children is one of
a cycle that is trying to bury a debt of
£12,000. It is a big try, and the local
mummer is nobly doing his bit, and a good
deal over, to help the Cause. The last out-
break occurred on a Turkish-bath afternoon
in the Tivoli, which the H. D. Mclntosh
management lent for the purpose. A Town
Hall contingent simmered gently in front of
the d.c. (even a Lady Mayoress has to enjoy
herself in the perspiration of her brow),
and an infant with large and healthy lungs
wept loudly and often in one of the boxes.
At the top of its voice it said that all was
vanity and vexation of baby.
The Spencer Bruntons’ dance the other
evening was a small, informal affair to cele-
brate daughter Evelyn’s birthdav. There
were no programmes, no bores, and lots of
carefully-edited Tango and ragtime. The big
ballroom at Elystan swallowed the handful
of joyous revellers till about 1-2 of the clock.
Pale pink—the flush-of-dawn tint that meets
the unappreciative glance of the early milk-
man —-was much favored by some of the
nicest-looking young persons present. Miss
Sylvia Purves, who has been recently gad-
ding in America with mamma, wore one of
the pink witcheries in the material that
looks like a slice of rose-tinted cloud. Miss
Evelyn Brunton was another flush-of-dawn-
gowned damsel, and handsome Ad&le Bren-
nan floated round in gossamer draperies in
the same distracting shade. Dorothy King’s
white frock had a pale blue bodice' (if you
can call these airy-fairy draperies by that
solid mid-Victorian title), which is said to
be the last drowning gasp in style. The
Bruntons have sent forth invitations for a
big dance on April 2—the hop the other even-
ing being a mere snack of Tango.
Commander Simpson-Baikie, R.N.R., of
the St. Albans, recently acquired the Royal
Naval Reserve decoration. The British
Admiral on the China station handed over
this bauble to the popular sailor.
The departure of our recent visitor from
U.S., Dr. Starr Jordan, of Stanford Uni.,
leaves another gap in the trail of Peace
Lecturers. The ’Murlcan disciple of ami-
able arbitration is going to look in at a
British Conference on that belligerent sub-
ject, and intends to examine the same argu-
ments in Berlin before he again puts on or
resumes liis. mortar board in California.
Lut Berlin just now is quiet and homelike,
and is eating its sausage in a mild spirit. An
apostle of peace has chances in Tripoli, where
the strife still lingers; in the Balkans,
tor the war is still alive thereabouts; in
Albania, which is welcoming its new King
with a gun; and in Belfast. It is up to
some peace apostle to flee to Belfast and see
Ed. Carson. The man who goes sneaking on
a mission of tranquillity to Berlin to-day is
carrying coals to Newcastle, with a safe-
conduct and a military escort.
The British-Australasia n has tracked
H. Wright, of the Mitchell Library (Syd-
ney) to his London lair, and remarks that
he is collecting anything handy in the shape
of early Australasian history he can put
his hands on. The same authority mentions
the name of Dr. Georgina Sweet (Mel-
bourne) as busily engaged pursuing nodules
in beef. These wild animals will lead the
Australian a dance through Europe, Asia
and America on behalf of the Common-
wealth Government. Nodules may be of
any size provided they are not larger than
the beef, and their presence indicates some-
thing or other which I have unfortunately
mislaid, but I believe it is serious and I
know it is very difficult to spell.
Harold Colonna, referred to as “the young
Australian tenor,” was married in London
during the early part of February, The
weddinv was as quiet as the Paddington
Registry Office could keep it. “The bride,”
says Phyllis, “is the last of an old and
wealthy family. She is Miss Cynthia (etc.)
King, the daughter of the late Walter George
King, of Loxwood, Sussex. She is in her
very early twenties.” One hopes, as young
tenors are not usually capitalists, that Mrs.
Harold Colonna has some of the savings of
her old and wealthy family tucked away in a
silk stocking, or a tank or two.
In these days when the high cost of living
is served up with the suburban ham and
eggs every morning, the Vancouver boats do
a very fair trade in carrying Australian
manufacturers over to the United States to
find out how they manage to pay much higher
wages there and still become millionaires. The
Makura on its last trip carried two of a
trade —manufacturer McNeilage, who makes
bottles in three or four States, and Emil
Resch, one of the numerous Reschs who fill
them. Both of them are higli-wage men by
inclination, and they want to know how the
thing can be managed. After “doing”
the U. S. they go on to Europe. And the
Niagara, the next of the fine Union boats
on that line, is already booked almost to the
hatches.
The day or so before Emil Resch left by
the Makura, eldest brother Edmund re-
turned to Sydney from Europe. Thirty
years or so ago Edmund landed in Australia
and presently started to brew beer at Wil-
cannia—where, a little later, Thomas Heney,
now editor of the S. M. Herald, started to
brew leading articles. Presently Silverton
“broke out,” and the Reschs began to coin
more money out of the vigorous thirst of the
silver miners. In a few years Edmund
came to Sydney, and bought a brewery or
two, one of them for an old song. Inci-
dentally he bargained for Swifts, the
elaborate harbor-side residence of the
Tooth, and bought the forty-odd thousand
pound white elephant for under £15,000.
Other Reschs set up breweries elsewhere —
one is at Cootamundra and another at
Broken Hill—and when the big combine
was arranged in Melbourne, Emil, the young-
est of the first generation, took a hand in
the subsequent proceedings.
Artist Florence Rodway, just back from
Tasmania, via Melbourne, is wearing her
peach-bloom complexion in its accustomed
place. She buttons on her ovterall and
settles down to work this week.
The N.S.W. Benevolent Society flaps its
ancient wings over the charities just men-
tioned, and president Neville Maymdn is
goading any soft-hearted persons he can
catch to go on doing things to exterminate
the able-bodied debt already indexed. Mrs.
Mayman sheltered in a box with Mrs. Hol-
man. An army of raiders looted every man,
woman and child who had a threepenny-bit
hidden away to take them home, and the
threepenny went to the cause, and the donors
walked home. Honorary treasurer Mrs. Mal-
colm Stephen and Mrs. J. E. Paul and hon.
secs. Mrs. Felix Booth and Mrs. Louis
Packer are possibly bailing out the profits
as I write. With all odds and ends and
corners scraped out they ought to make about
£5OO.
Mrs. Harry Rickards is moving off the
edge of this continent shortly, on her annual
flitting to Europe. Only a small percentage
of women can count more strenuous careers
than this once extraordinarily busy woman,
whose judgment in the vaudeville business
is said to have largely built the Rickards cir-
cuit in Australia. I fancy she misses the
bustle of overlooking the old show turns, and
just keeps moving on to make her thoughts
circulate. A woman who travels much can
always reckon on being pretty busy losing
some of her luggage now and again, or miss-
ing her trains, or catching cold, or mislaying
her keys and her thimble. And she can’t
feel lonesome when she is interviewing foreign
Customs officers.
Soprano Lynn Mills is included in the
migration epidemic that attacks a good many
of our musical folk at this time of year.
The plump little warbler, who is a daughter
of Mr. J. Y. Mills, will give her farewell chir-
rup in St. James’s Hall. March 30 is the
date.
Baritone Herbert Ratcliffe leaves shortly
for London, via a stop over in Melbourne.
In the southern city he is going to sing at an
Oratorio Festival on Good Friday night.
Ella Caspers, the Goulburn contralto, is
returning to tour her native land. Her first
concert in Sydney is to occur in May. After
a hurried scramble through a few Common-
wealth Town Halls the singer rushes back
to Europe. There she is engaged as the only
assisting artist for a tour with fiddler
Ivreisler.
Pianist Gertrude Palmer, A.R.A.M.,
tripped off to the other side in the Tahiti
on Saturday last.
Mrs. Percy Hunter, whose health has
again fallen away from Satisfactory, is
booked for England, with her two boys, by
the Ascanius. The Blue Funnel craft leaves
on March 28.
Director George Wright, one of the com-
mercial tetrarchs of Farmer and Co., was
included in last week’s exodus to the other
side of the globe. Mailboats and general
passenger craft have been laden this month
with wandering Australians, who time their
departure to catch the British summer (a
frail and fleeting wraith of sunshine, which
suggests that someone has struck a match in
a fog.) So there must be a trace of super-
fluous cash still left in this State.
James C. Bendrodt, who used to stand at
the top of the marble stcns of the Imperial
Rink (foot of William-street), to gently push
the pushes off the select sheep track, is again
in the old address. This time he is manag-
ing director of a Dance Academy, under the
Imperial shingle, with Geo. C. Irving as
general, manager, and a pot of money behind
them. The classic shade of the immortal
Turveydrop—the D ncing one, not the De-
portment one —shot: 1 writhe in the ghost of
a russet-green frock coat, at the heights of
luxury by which ti e modern dance assembly
lures the fleet of foot. The Imperial man-
agement has been spending over £2OOO on
re-decorating and re-furnishing the ex-Rink
building. Both the dancing and the dancers
will be rigorously censored. No blush will
burst through the face powder of the Old
Person, and He or She who doesn’t Tango in
the Right Way will be escorted to the marble
steps already mentioned and cast headlong
over the battlements of Paradise, same as
Mephistopheles, who was never again quite
sound on that foot. This haughty palace of
the hop will open its portals about the second
week in April.
The skeleton recently discovered in Ger-
man East Africa, with something like 150,000
years behind it, casts no new light on the
fashions of that day. Possibly no anthro-
pologist would demean himself so far as to
inquire into the style in split skirts at the
time when these old bones were clad in
flesh, and, possibly, grass kilts. And what
good if he did inquire? Adam’s vertebra re-
main, if they have been interred in preserva-
tive circumstances, likewise the top of Tubal
Cain’s stone axe (the handle, alas! is gone),
and Abraham’s rusted twmpence. But the
old hats and dress suits are dust, and the
bonnets have fled, and the high-heeled boots
have taken to themselves wings. It seems
to me that a corset from before the Deluge
would throw more light on the battered old
facts of history than all the bones of B.C.
The recent squabble in the M.L. river-
side town of TV anganui, re rival carnival
beauties, proves that the referee in these
affairs must have a mighty uneasy time. The
report of the Wanganui struggle is hard to
follow in cold print. The ballot for the
appointment of a “Queen” of the carnival
festivities was taken by ticket. It was a
thrifty proceeding, for the voters paid for
their tickets. A Miss McDonald won by a
majority that apparently wiped out the
hopes of any other competitor. Next day
came the whirling news that a lady, who is
described as a Maori, one Mrs. McGregor,
“had not been credited with £5O worth of
votes.” In consequence, she was promptly
crowned queen of the carnival. Then the
other ex-imperial dame’s friends and sup-
porters plunged into the battle. The can-
nons were loaded, and the dogs of war let
loose., and someone shouted “havock” (with
a “k”), and. the fresh-water horse marine
girded on bis armor. The Telegraph’s
M.L. correspondent concludes by saying that
the affair has caused “much feeling.” That’s
the stuff that makes one Perfect Lady long
to smack the face of another Perfect Lady.
Merchant James Craig, of the big Auck-
land firm of J. J. Craig and Co., is passing
this way. on the long, wet track to London.
The Craig firm dabbles extensively in ship-
ping, and owns some sailing craft that trade
(or used to) between this side and the Domi-
nion. J. Craig, who is reputed to be one of
M.L.’s most prosperous citizens, will be able
to tell the astounded low-wage Britisher that
rich folk are plentiful in high-wage Austral-
asia.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


-VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT
Gentlemen’s Travelling Bags
Hardy Brothers’ Travelling Bags are of the Best English
Manufacture, and combine strength with suitable and
highly-finished fittings. These are specially adapted for
Presentations.
m
GENTLEMAN’S TRAVELLING BAG.
Solid English Leather Travelling Bag, 24 inches long,
leather lined, and fitted with Pair Ebony Hair Brushes,
Ebony Hat and Clothes Brushes, Four Solid Silver
Mounted Bottles and Soap Box, Mirror, Razors and
Strop, Receptacle for Shirts fitted into back of lid.
£ll/10/-
HARDY BROS. LTD.,
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS,
13 Hunter Street, Sydney; 118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
-AND AT LONDON.-
READERS of GOOD FICTION
should join the merry throng and be happy by reading the
BOOKSTALL Series of Australian Fiction
This Series forms a Complete Library of Clean Stories
full of Humor, Romance and Sporting Life.
ALL ONE PRICE, 1/- Post Free, 1/1
JUST PUBLISHED!
** The Knight of the Motor Launch/’
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
is a young inan of amorous propensities, always on the lookout for adventure, and in his cruises
around Sydney Harbor he meets more than he bargains for. The various episodes are excellently
told, and the conversations are reminiscent of the “Dolly Dialogues,” which is saying a lot.
“South Sea Shipmates, 9 * By JOHN ARTHUR BARRY.
Very few old salts knew the South Seas better than Captain Barry, and few could equal him in the
spinning of yarns. The yarns contained in this book are personal experiences, bearing the impress
of truth on the face of them, and therein lies their value and their virtue.
Sodg'er Sandy's Bairn.
Price, 1/-; Post Free, 1/1.
By A. BATHGATE.
With six illustrations by Harry Julius,
anti a cover design by Percy Spence.
Mr. Bathgate is new to Australian readers, which is unfortunate for both author and readers,
for “Sodger Sandy’s Bairn” displays such an amount of ability that it seems a pity he did not ven-
ture sooner. He gives us some splendid pen-pictures of Scotch and colonial types, describes the
early gold rushes and their attendant excitement with wonderful vividity, charms us with his insight
into human nature, possesses a command of the Scotch vernacular that reminds one of .T. M. Barrie
or lan Maclaren, whilst his fund of pawky humor is rare and refreshing. Scotch people especially
will welcome this book and want to know more of its author.
THOS. E. SPENCER,
PRICE, 1/- per Vol. ; Post Free, 1/1.
Australia’s Subtlest Humorist, and the writer of the best
Australian Recitations and Sketches this side
of the Equator.
Year after year he maintained that reputation, and he never sent to his publisher any book
that public opinion had not voted a DECIDED SUCCESS. Those who are fond of GENUINE
HUMOR and a HEARTY LAUGH should start with “MoDOUGALL,” and go right down the list.
It can be done for a SHILLING A SHOT, and will prove money well spent. Every book teems with
splendid RECITATIONS, such as clever amateurs love, and the variety is endless. The List to Date: —
How McDougall Topped the Score.
The Spring Cleaning.
Bindawalla.
Why Doherty Died.
The Surprising Adventures of Bridget
McSweeney.
The Haunted Shanty.
That Droll Lady.
“ TKe Convid Pugilist,**
By GEORGE COCKERILL.
l/= ; Post Free, 1/1.
A tale of the early days, when might, was often right. Contains graphic descriptions of fights
that frequently meant life or death. Exciting, thrilling and entertaining.
“The Spell of the Bust*,”
By JOHN X. CAMERON.
1/- ; Post Free, 1/1.
To many “The Spell of the Bush” is a living 1 thing that haunts and charms simultaneously ; but
when to that is added the fascinating touch of bushranging, you come under an influence that compels
you to read on and on to the end.
If Write for Complete List.
ARE NOW OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 Georg'e Street, Sydney. And All Booksellers.
Me advantage of this offer to have a PIANOLA PIANO
in your home To-morrow ; —!
YOU know by experience how essential music is to a really modem home —with-
out the good old melodies and songs, without ragtime for the younger folk
and operatic and classical gems for the elder ones, no house party can be a
complete sucess. To enjoy this wealth of melody it is not enough to ‘possess an
ordinary piano, for expert pianists are scarcer than pianos, whilst the musical
demands of a party ate tiring and exacting. What you need now is the Pianola
Piano, which will enable you to play your own music, to select your own pro-
gramme from the world’s greatest and most popular musical works, and which will
give the keenest personal pleasure to all who play it.
The Pianola Piano is sold upon
terms IK at every Home can afford.
No longer does the purchase of a Piallola Piano involve a large initial outlay—
anyone of the most moderate means can walk into Pianola Hall and see there
dozens of instruments that he can comfortably afford. Here are four examples,
showing the wide range of terms upon which a genuine Pianola Piano can be’
obtained, and these are but four of many
k
v/i
u vat
Ut-
I
3
b
(HB^
Steinway Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment of
£l5 Down
and the balance in monthly Instalments.
Weber Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment of
£l5 Down
and the balance in monthly instalments.
Steck Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment of
£lO Down
and the balance in monthly instalments.
Stroud Pianola Piano
Obtainable on payment ot
£5 Down
and the balance in monthly instalments.
If you arc not already the owner of
a piano, please fill in this
Coupon.
Please send me your illustrated Cata-
logue and full details of all models of the
Pianola Piano which are purchasable by
monthly instalments of about
£
Name
Address
These terms are especially remarkable "when you realise that they do not refer to any
ordinary player-piano, but to the genuine Pianola Piano, which has always been an instru-
ment of distinctive and superior qualities—* invariably the choice of the wealthiest and
most critical purchaser.
Owners o f Pianos can obtain a genuine
Pianola Piano at a greatly reduced expenditure
If you have a piano that is rarely played and desire to replace it by a Pianola Piano we
will make you a generous allowance if this instrument is given in part exchange—an
allowance that will greatly reduce your expenditure. To know what allowance we are
prepared to make upon your present piano please fill in and post the coupon that
appears in the right-hand bottom corner of this advertisement.
bv
If you do not already possess a piano remember that however small a sum you are
prepared to pay there is certain to be a Pianola Piano to suit your pocket, so therefore
~9Q
fill in the coupon in the left-hand bottom corner and post at once,
coupon you use it should be posted without delay.
Whichever
The Pianola Piano is the genuine Pianola, combined with the famous Steinway, Weber,
Steck or Stroud Piano. You are invited to play it at the Exhibition now in progress at
Pianola Hall.
If you possess a piano of any kind,
please fill in this Coupon.
Please let vie know the best allowance
you can make towards the cost of a
Pianola Piano upon my present instru-
ment, which is a
(Make)
Purchased about
(Date)
Original cost
Name
Address
vbv
bv
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
Pty.
Ltd.
252 Collins Street , MELBOURNE /
88 Rundle Streetg ADELAIDE;
357 George Street (next Bavid Jones Ltd.), SvdUGVa
and 436-438 Queen Street, BRISBANE; London, Berlin, New York, etc.
Mr*,
m> m f Ni gc*ma*


HIGH QUALITY
FOOTWEAR AT FARMER’S
The boot illustrated shows one of Geo. E. Keith’s
most reliable productions in Men’s Footwear. Made
from carefully selected leathers on modern lasts. They
have no superior either for good style, comfort or
solid wear.
Men’s High-grade American Footwear,
Patent Coltskin Golosh, Dull Kid Leg, Button or
Oxford Lace Boots; also All Patent Blucher or Lace
styles. An excellent dress boot, light and flexible.
Sizes and half-sizes, and quarter-fittings.
PRICE 35/- PAIR.
Farmer’s Pay Carriage to any part of Australia.
cb
FARMER’S
The House of
Distinction.
SYDNEY
“The Fashion in Fragrance ! n
ParfOn)
Lilas
The essence of the Lilac Bloom!
All the rage in Europe, and now
the favorite and fashionable Per=
fume in Australia. Manufactured
by Gustav Lohse, Berlin. The
Leading Perfumieres in the World.
Obtainable of all Stores throughout Australia
Sole Agent—
A. 0. SCHMIDT, William St.
MELBOURNE.
The
Oriental
Hotel,
MELBOURNE.
AUSTRALIA’S MODERN HOTEL.
Now open for the reception of Quests.
The most Hygienic Conditions and Refined
Elegance are distinctive features.
Any size suite of compartments.
Tariff from 15/- per day.
ERNEST McINTOSH, General Manager.
MELBOURNECHATTER.
Melbourne, March 23, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Denman lady recently called a meeting
about the Repertory Theatre Ball, which has
been postponed from May 1 to May 6. The
cohorts of the Best Fed duly responded to
the summons, and the council chamber in the
Town Ilall was filled with a good working
mixture of plain Culture in plain clothes,
fashionable culture chasers in beautiful
clothes, and yearning Repertory actors and
actresses. Her Ex. sat at the head of the
table. She had Gaud Mayoress Hennessy for
company, also secretary Cornish, of the Mel-
bourne Club, who is really giving the job his
serious support. (Good of him, isn’t it?) A
whirring electric fan made white hat feathers
to writhe and coil serpent-wise round the
chairlady’s head, until she bore some resem-
blance to Medusa. However, she was merely
chuckling to herself at Alfred Cornish’s diplo-
matic advice (given very confidentially, of
course) : “Get them all together an’ give
them tickets —and more tickets. Load them
with tickets!” That, in a gentler form, was
Lhe text of the chairlady’s discourse. She
-advised all hands to give dinner parties and
ipresent the guests with tickets —or get them
ito dinner and enlist them as ticket-sellers
*after dinner. Mrs. Consular Bouvet at once
made her Toorak home a centre for ticket-
iselling. Beatrice Day, who is visiting her,
• offered her services in the good work. Mrs.
'Gregan McMahon implored people to hurry
nip their sets and get in early on the photo-
graphic list. Chamberlain Nevill sat quietly
.and took stock of the situation with the eye
•of a general who has astounding moves up
Ihis sleeve, but committed himself to nothing.
MStead pervaded the meeting, and other men
irdlled up. Eighteen plays—some of them
'Shakspearian—have been marked off as sets.
'The various sets are to pose in tableaux
ibefore they dance, and, as the chief mummers
thereabout are interested, the shows should
ibe really good. Anybody in any kind of
fancy dress can join the whirl, for it is not
urecessary to belong to a set. The Denman
ilady has not yet divulged what character she
lhas chosen, so the Most. Loyal are waiting
Ibreathlessly for a cue. Boffard is ladling out
iiniformaifion to those who require it, and
everybody of the slightest importance has
tickets to sell.
The new Stanley lady was initiated into
the obscure mysteries of the Austral Salon
last Thursday, but she is expected to get
over it. She took up the presidency, along
with heaps of be-ribboned vegetables and
many pints of heady talk. (I don’t know
how they manage to bottle such stuff, but
they do.) The Madden dame wafted the
guest into place and kept as a dark secret
the fact that she had just been farewelled
out of the job. In fact, the farewell bou-
quets were at the moment tucked away out
of sight in the back regions. The Magpies
orchestra (female) made suitable soft music,
and the show voices of the minute were
paraded for her Ex.’s diversion. The Salon
dotes —and bloats —on budding artists, and
has given them a chance from the time of
Amy Castles’s infancy.
Dorothy Sternberg, the dazzling flapper
daughter of Sam Sternberg, of Sydney, and
a niece of Bendigold Sternberg, M.H.R., has
said “Yes” or “I suppose so” or “Oh, this is
so sudden!” to Leslie Benjamin, son of the
late Benjy Benjy, who was a knight and
Mayor of Melbourne. Leslie is a beautiful
young yachtsman in his spare moments. The
two met for the first time at a dinner party
three weeks ago, and the engagement is re-
garded as being one of the fastest on record.
Jim Grice, son of the Moondah Grices at
Frankston, is engaged to Daisy Bree, of
Hamilton. Jim evidently finds single cussed-
ness rather lonesome now his sisterly chum,
Nancy, has changed her name and gone off
to live in another man’s house.
Doris Cooke has written a song and com-
posed the accompaniment, which Falkiner
Smith has accepted for publication. The
small girl was patted on the head by Mar-
garet Cooper, when that lady visited Mel-
bourne, and was given considerable encour-
agement to go ahead with her singing-music.
Dr. Emery Gould’s widow is dead. She
and her conspicuous embonpoint will be very
much missed, for her friendliness and en-
couragement to young musicians was warm-
hearted, and noted ex-pupils of hers are scat-
tered all over the world. The late Mrs.
Emery was a Miss O’Shannessy, and came
to Australia from Ireland when she was only
a youngster. She always had a voice, and
she and Melba were fellow-pupils of Mar-
ches!. She never lost her intense enthusi-
asm for musical affairs, and was always
cheerfully to the front at concerts, with her
dignified robes spread carefully about her,
and her eyes bird-bright with eagerness. Her
face was as free from lines as a child’s, and
her complexion was the envy of many. Cheer-
ful through many big griefs, she made moan
continuously about her too-abundant flesh,
which compelled her to move with care, in-
stead of darting about as she would have
liked. But dignity was Mrs. Emery Gould’s
keynote. Her husband, dead this many
years, was a noted Collins-street medico, with
a strong leaning toward art in all its
branches.
“Reggie,” the youngest son of the late
Janet Clarke and Baronet William, refused
to go home and be nursed when he caught
cold in camp. Later on he was taken to
hospital—but it was too late. He was
buried with all possible pomp, and stray bits
of artillery rattled about the streets for
hours after the funeral.
Otto Schmidt is going back to Germany
to sort out the affairs of his late father,
who was well known in commercial circles.
Otto is carrying back a Will Longstaff por-
trait of the departed, to hang in a German
gallery.
The Alexandra Club females excitedly
ruffled their feathers and clucked round the
Prout-Webb-Brandon pair, who had a wed-
ding breakfast at the exclusive Chookery
after their marriage. The bridegroom sub-
sequently rescued his wife from a raging sea
of hats, and carried her off to North Banana-
land, where he does something with mining.
The pupils of Weber and Rice’s Health
and Strength College had their annual night
out at the Auditorium last Thursday, with
the Madden Waxellency as medal distributor.
Among influential patrons of chest inflation
and dumbbell exercise sturdy John was ever
to the fore. Now that girl graduates of the
college are figuring freely on the platform,
his fatherly interest seems keener than ever.
About two dozen girls the other night re-
lieved the monotony of the exhibition by
giving a display of swaying movements,
“bath” exercises and means of filling up
“salt cellars.” Gladys and Ida Buller did
star feats and poses, and the men—especially
Weber and Rice—were wonderful. But the
introductory speech of the beauteous Clarence
was too long, and the stage management
left a lot of professional snap to be desired.
Kathleen Watson’s “Later Litanies” has
come out, and, what is more, it promises to
remain out, in company with the “Litanies
of Life,” which the authoress published in
London long ago, before she changed her
name to Deardon and came to Australia.
There were five Litanies in the parent book.
There are four in its belated offspring, the
first and least persuasive of them being “A
Seouel to the House of Broken Dreams.”
The strength of the new book is in the two
middle pieces, for “Ursula” is almost as
good as K.W.’s previous best, whilst “If
Love But Knew” is distinctly better. The
woman in this case is a divorcee of many
moods, not so loaded with self-pity as the
sorrowful Litanic spinsters of yore who fell
into indiscretion quite easily, or repulsed
temptation with scorn, or sometimes be-
moaned the lack of “one stain of scarlet sin”
in her life. The divorcee of the Later Litany
finds compensations, and ends her glowing
monologue hopefully. All the poetry of the
authoress’s prose is in it: her word painting
has some beautiful bits of color, and the
composition of the little domestic melodrama
is equally gracious and artistic in its un-
reality.
The Grey-Egerton dame has been indulging
in the appendicitis operation since her visit
here with daughter Amy Clarke. Dr. Doug-
las Shields did the removal act. Douglas
now has his private hospital in full swing in
London. The Dudley patronage was re-
sponsible for that move.
One of the Cudmores, who circle socially
round three States (their station is perched
somewhere about the top edges of Victoria
and S.A., and drinks out of the river Dar-
ling, in N.S.W.), is to be married on Satur-
day, to George Stogdale. The ceremony
is to be at St. John’s, Toorak, and the sub-
sequent spree at Mandeville Hall —the Ross-
Soden white elephant palace that is now a
paying guestery.
Manisty, of the Naval Department, left
Australia last week in a cyclone of adieux,
directed at himself and his wife. Manisty
originally came out as secretary to Admiral
Henderson, and was retained here to organise
the secretarial work. The job is now handed
on to an Australian. The departed official
had made good in Australia. He became a
great favorite and was sent off with full
honors. The G.-G. Denmans lunched him
and the missus at a special farewell party,
and the Admiral Creswell couple played about
with them all the week. Mrs. Manisty got
her own particular send-off from the Quamby
Club, while her husband was being dined by
the Naval Department. The stateroom
aboard the Osterley was fairly littered with
complimentary vegetables. All Mrs. Man-
isty’s relations came in a body from Sydney
and put up at Menzies’ for a week’s fare-
welling. She, in the first instance, was
heiress Flo McCathie, the very rich daughter
of the late Mrs. McCathie. An Australian-
born son, John Collingwood Manisty, is
being taken proudly to England with a nurse
escort and the luggage of a young prince.
Lady Patey and her children, coming hither
to join the Admiral, are at time of writing in
quarantine. The Orsova, their travelling
ark, brought along a case of s nall-pox, so
they could, not get ashore at Melbourne, and
the Government House visit had to be cut
out.
Gregan McMahon and his Repertory
ininions will again tread the Royal stage to-
night (Thursday), when “Rutherford and
Son” will divert the third Repertory audience
of this week. McMahon is taking advantage
of a break in the big theatre’s date and put-
ting on evening shows.-
Collins, president of the local Automobile
Club, is off to Brisbane for two years. Vic-
torian roads will quite miss the spirited and
original objurgations of the cheery little man,
who generally has half a dozen cars in com-
mission at the same time. The Automobile
Club tendered him a farewell dinner, during
which numerous long-distance speeches were
made. The remarks were mostly of a
friendly character. If the guest has any
carping critic he didn’t turn up to carp that
evening.
The Opera House matinee, in aid of -the
Austin Hospital, was a fashionable squash.
Hugh Mclntosh lent the building for the
good cause, and every theatre in Melbourne
contidbuted a turn. Mrs. Ethel Warwick
Potiphar brought over her crystal, her snake,
her love-god and the few clothes she wears
in the temptation, and gave the big thrill of
the religious melodrama. It is scarcely
credible, but Eugenie Duggan Anderson actu-
ally recited “Curfew Shall Not (sob) Ring
To-night.” She wore a lace dress that would
have been torn to shreds in the acrobatic bell
act, also a velvet hat that could not have
survived one swing. Comedian Lupino, of
the panto, wore tights made out of a hot-
water-bag-cover (or it may have been a leop-
ard skin) under a pink tulle ballet skirt, and
perpetrated a song and dance that made the
boxed vice-regals sit up and stop yawning.
Lady Denman, in a favorite green outfit,
came along with Help Pollock in tow. Lady
Stanley, behind a lorgnette in the opposite
box, had Captain Wilson to yawn with. The
two Gentlemen Helps in opposition camps
signalled merrily to each other. The pretty
programme and sweets girls (many of them
were Society flappers just recruited from the
high schools) bushranged Bourke-street. The
“talent,” that lounge everlastingly by the
kerb, said “Blimey!”—or words to that
effect —when they were politely elbowed aside
by self-possessed girls in dainty frocks, who
had no use for any idle starers. The “talent”
are only used to large policemen, for whom
they make room for a second or so, till the
path-clearing mountain of muscle passes.
Then they step back and obstruct the foot-
traffic again. The vice-regal boxes were
draped in silver tissue and roses. Expensive
white satin boxes of sweets went with the
bouquets, and free tea was conveyed in haste
at refreshment time, while the general public
stretched out its necks and waved its good
money vainly in the air.
The Mclntosh niece has- come from Sydney
and she turned over the Flat to the busy girl
volunteers for the tea-brewing. The Gaud
Mayor gazed at the Tangoing from centre
circle, and seemed to be favorably impressed.
At any rate, he didn’t rise and forbid the
band. Mrs. Major James looked after the
show from a secretarial point. The proceeds
will go to fit out a stall, in charge of Gaud
Mayoress Hennessy, at the forthcoming
Austin Hospital bazaar. The money will
thus get a fresh spin and multiply exceed-
ingly.
Max Pirani got a houseful for his com-
plimentary concert on Saturday night, in the
Auditorium. The very young man has been
taken up with tremendous enthusiasm by the
Best People, and they are assuring one an-
other that Max will be great when he gets a
chance. The clever, 14-year-old youth is so
nearsighted now that he peers at his hands as
if they were strange insects. (There is
nothing else to peer at, for he doesn’t use
music on the platform.) On Saturday he
played a “Petite Suite” of his own, a highly
technical, old-worldish —or maybe it is next-
worldish—piece of work. When he was some-
where about mid-channel, a ghostly voice
whispered “Faster!” and the serpentine hiss
undulated through the orchestra benches, dis-
tressing to the female relative and friend,
who was keyed up to hysterical pitch. Alberto
Zelman and his orchestra sawed off a sooth-
ing accompaniment for the prodigy when he
attacked a Beethoven Concerto. Margaret
Murdoch and A. C. Bartlemann were merely
on the programme to sing Pirani songs,
which were all short items, and accompanied
by the composer. State Governor Stanley,
clad in a new season’s assortment of stars,
orders, cancelled P.N.’s, etc., attended with
his wife and showed symptoms of pleasure.
I really believe he is fond of music. Well,
he’ll get all he wants if he stays long enough.
I watched his face intently from a distance
of one yard and shorthanded his expressions.
Most of the time he wore the restful, dreamy
look of the real concert devotee, but his
pleasant countenance tied itself into an agon-
ised knot of distress and capsized when a
flurried solo violinist played acutely sharp in
bis double stoppings. (This isn’t a dentistry
item, as_you might think. It’s just a scrap
of music, jargon I had by me.) Lady Stan-
ley wore a dainty air and a big, red rose, and
she followed the music, note by note, to the
melodious end. Help Gale, tall as a giraffe,
looked as gentle as a lamb, and coiled himself
up on his chair like a faithful and fasci-
nated python. Premier Watt squired her
Ex., and Mrs. Watt sat alongside the Gov-
ernor. Gaud Mayor Ilennessy beamed
through eyeglasses ab the young pianist,
and Mrs. Ilennessy listened politely in a
frock of cherry-embroidered silk. The most
intense and soulful crowd of Toorak’s ex-
clusive musical families filled the stalls.
(By “exclusive people” I mean the special
Toorak rabbits who burrow so deeply into
the suburb that motors and carriages are
necessities, if they are ever to get out of
their hole and frisk. Using the word in this
sense, _ a lonely selector’s wife is the most
exclusive lady in the State.) These hermits
won’t come to town for nothing, and it was
a triumph to drag them in. The metallic
result of the concert should give Pirani a
good long lift on the road to knowledge.
He left for Europe, with his grand piano
under his arm, on Tuesday.
Ernest Williamson, now the occupant of
a pleasant billet in Adelaide, will cross
the Victorian border next month for the
usual orange blossom ceremony with cousin
Hilda Williamson. The sentimental affair
began when the bride-elect was in short
socks; yet the young pair were quite sur-
prised to find that the announcement of
their engagement surprised nobody. Ernest
is a personable, fair-haired young man who
has popularised himself in the best ball-
rooms, and his thatch will contrast nicely
with Hilda’s. She is a brunette and cousin
to the W. ,T. T. Clarkes, but whether she is
a brunette because she is a relation or a
relation because she is a brunette, I do not
profess to know. Probably neither fact in-
terferes with her playing of the piano, if she
is addicted to the use of that instrument.
She may not be. Life is full of chances, and
it may be that the mouth-organ is the only
thing she plays.
Dr. Reggie Morrison is tearing himself
from the corner patch on the Toorak-road
where he took root many years ago. He will
replant himself in the heavily-brassplated
part of Collins-street, with his wife and trio
of sons. Dr. Percy Brett, brother of lawyer
Brett, will trundle across from Glenferrie to
fill the vacated house.
From my Adelaide correspondent:—
The widow of that John McKinley who went ex-
ploring when our history was in its infancy died at
Gawler the other day. It is a nice, quiet place to die
at. She left £20,000, the which sum goes to her
brother —one John Pile.
The Coles noblewoman is leaving Glenelg for a
couple of years’ travel. I gather that the trip is in
the nature of a rest-cure. The blithering excitement
of life at Glenelg had begun to get on her nerves.
Mrs. Maxwell Fowler is here —or rather at Glenelg
—again, in the wake of her naval husband. She
spends most of her working hours playing golf.
Mrs. Alfred Stokes —she was Miss Barbara Jessop
—-has achieved a male infant —an astounding child
reputedly, rich in charm and intellect; of extra-
ordinary physical strength and exceptional beauty;
and with a moral character second to none. Not
even the most carping Stokes or the most pessimistic
Jessop is prepared to deny that the new baby is a
neat combination of Napoleon, Apollo and St. John
Chrysostom.
Mr. Russell Booth is slowly getting better in the
North Adelaide Hospital.
The inter-State Tennis Tournament has been raging
at Adelaide Oval. I use the word raging deliberately,
on account of the heat. Most of the weather was
the sort that makes one comprehend the point of
view of the gentle Indian who pays others to take
exercise on his behalf.
The Bakewell-llenderson wedding is arranged for
April 22. The nuptial feast will be spread at the
John Downers’ house.
The Tango Teas continue to draw vast crowds to
Hughie Mclntosh’s Hall of Song. In fact, not to
put too fine a point on it, Adelaide has gone stark,
staring balmy in this particular direction. The
holiest of our citizens are regular patrons of the
new diversion. They say that they go to see that
nothing improper occurs, but as to that I have my
lingering doubts. Each tea is a shade rortier than
the last —the merest suggestion of a shade, yet still
the difference was there. Nevertheless, the attendance
increases. Several of our most estimable citizens are
doggedly learning the Tango. They say that they are
determined to prove by personal experience whether
or no it is as undermining to the character as some
folks say.
The Dudley Turners’ house in Stanley-street is
having the last touches put to it. It represents the
final shriek in houses. In brief, it is a bosker. The
fortunate owners are at Kingsmead, superintending
the shifting of their furniture.
Dr. Mawson has persuaded the University to grant
him leave of absence for 1914 so that he can go to
England and wind up the affairs of his expedition.
(This is my polite way of saying that he intends to
try and collect enough money there to pay the expe-
dition’s debts.) Frank Stillwell, of Victoria, will
act in his absence.
Superintendent Rickwood, of the Fire Brigade,
who died on Monday after a short illness, had been
in Adelaide since 1905 —prior to which he held a good
naval billet in New South Wales. He was a Cornish-
man. You have heard of the Cornish wreckers, of
course? Well, Mr. Rickwood was one of them. He
wrecked fires like a tradesman.
We had a mild railway smash of our own on
Saturday. No one was kiiled, unfortunately for the
newspapers, but several people were bruised and
shaken up generally. The local trains crawl for
safety, but it isn’t always a success. The tortoise
may not be fined for furious driving, but he may be
overtaken by a caterpillar, and trampled underfoot.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


V ’
jSs
ess
£
&
P
A
%
m
a
m
•*Bs
17
to
r
<L
1_
r*
m
Y M
V?
Vja
JT-
wm
£
K
#■
41
P
v-
A
Y/S
fe
<*?
a.
va
5?
5^
7
r,
w-
r-=*
/
■T
«r^
<cc
*z>
«S£
/
F,
W \fc/!i
%
r3Z
V
!r>S
B
/Ov
3
£
fcs
K
i/^
L&
Born 1820
—Still going strong
F °r the
and
we ’ll all take a
ride
oN G ’
s
OLD
In these days of motors and promotors about the only thing that
isn 1 hurried is “Johnnie IValker. ” That is still matured
in the good old way, by time and nature alone. Same family
management since 1820.
Red
Every Drop over
IO Years Old
In Non-refillahle Bottles.
To safeguard the age, our policy for the future is our policy of the past . First & foremost to see
that the margin of stocks over sales is always large enough to maintain our unique quality .
Bottled only by JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
And at SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.


vcb
vcb
cvb
Mirrors
and
Glass
Ware
Always
bright
and clean'
after
Bon Ami
WM i SL-JiK
u'lfcm w
For
Kitchen
Ware
The
Bon Ami
way is
the
easiest
way.
Bon Ami Bon Ami
vc
The operation takes just one
ing minute and leaves the
brilliant.
work*
mirror
bvc
Brilliantly polish up your pots ket-
tles and pans with Boji Ami—it s
perfect.
[2
THe World’s Best.
PAIMLER
Motor Lorry.
Silent Knight Engine.
' ‘ Shaft Drive No Chains.
bvc
SUNSHINE
Motor Cars P’t'y
Melbourne. I
Hugh V. McKay, Sydney & AdelaideJ
Sole
Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES.
THE S ECO ED ROBBER DRAWS A
BLANK.
THE STRONGER HALF: “My dear wan, you're
too late. The landlord collected the rent
this morning."
“L.S.” : Here are the plans and specihca-
of a true fairy-godmother tale:
The Vic. bushfires on the anniversary of Black
Thursday swept away a few homesteads, and the
family humpy of Bill Bellamy went while he was
getting his invalid mother out of her little home a
few chains away. The old lady strongly objected to
being rescued; but finally she was dumped into the
middle of a potato field, and left with a guard of
grand-daughters to keep the sparks off. Bill got
badly burned, and couldn’t use his hands even to
SSt « th“ e o.7w" A there
till his burns healed up, wondering how on earth he
was going to start another home. By the time he
was able to get up he had settled it all. He
would borrow from the Guv’ment, and buy Bob
Monk’s four-roomed tenement that was “for sale for
removal,” in the township. Bob was a friend of his,
and wouldn’t open his mouth too wide. Mrs. Bel-
lamy thought it was a good plan, and if the money
would run to it, a little furniture could be got.
Bill resolved to get up next morning and limp over
to the site, and see if the blocks were good enough
to use again. All that night he was dreaming of the
new home, and could even hear the carpenter’s ham-
mers fixing it up, and once he could have sworn he
heard Bob’s voice urging his minions to “get a blanky
move on.” Soon after daylight he struggled up, drew
on the only pair of pants the fire had left him, and
went out. He turned towards the place where his
house had been, and—it was still there! But it was
different, somehow—a trifle bigger, and newer look-
ing. Bill struggled over to the building, and then
recognised it, and half realised the truth. Bob Monk,
an old pal, had pondered over Bill’s parlous cas<\ and,
if you know the bushman, you can guess the rest.
Bob did not open his mouth too wide, either. In
fact, he refused to extend that orifice at all.
* * * *
“Viti”: After 40 years of so-called work
ip. Fiji, the missionaries have very little to show in
the way of practical Christianity amongst the native
population. True, they have established numerous
mission schools and built dozens of churches (with
the Fijian’s money), have persuaded the natives to
put on more clothes, and taught them to sing and
recite, with the understanding mostly of a parrot.
But, at bottom, there is very little change for the
better. The young men and women, when they leave
the mission schools, generally consider themselves
much better than their neighbors. The men there-
fore flock to European settlements, acquire all the
misfit vices of the white .man, and generally end up
in a bad way. The girls, for the same reason, do
the same thing, and often end up worse. Fijians
are born singers and slaves to show. Take the
singing away, and you would empty every native
church and mission school in Fiji. Take their gay,
tawdry European clothes and ornaments away, and
you would drive almost every Fijian back to the
hills and out of touch with the white man. Euro-
peans who have lived in Fiji for the last 40 years,
and are not missionaries, will tell one that if it were
possible to remove every foreigner from the islands,
and the natives were left to themselves, they would
be back again within 10 years to the habits and
customs of 100 years ago, so thin is the veneer of
civilisation and Christianity upon them. Every day
one sees bits of the savage crop out. If a Fijian
has to dress a fowl (they are very fond of poultry)
he will probably pluck it alive; and if he is called
away during the operation, he will simply break
its legs and leave it thus until he has time to
finish the job. Pork is much prized food, and pigs
are to be found in every village. As often as not,
these unfortunate 'animals have had their eyes
taken out, to prevent them straying away from the
village. The islanders are -still the same, supersti-
tious race they have always been. I can illustrate
that with an instance. A cutter was crossing from
one island to another.. The occupants were a party
of native mission teachers. A storm got up quickly,
as storms are apt to do in the tropics. All on
board were terrified, expecting the little craft to
founder any moment. Instead of doing what good
Christians might have been expected to do, they
huddled up in terror. At last the head teacher pulled
himself together, and addressed them, asserting that
some of their number must have committed a great
crime, and the gods would surely wreck the boat
if the guilty one did not confess. Almost immedi-
ately a young woman owned up —and the favored
gentlemen were among the party. Evidently that
squared things, for they reached the shore safely.
* » • * *
“Peter Culex” : The revised version of the
Epic of Douglas Pitt, according to “Bullswool”—no,
“Wul-Mul” (B. 26/2/’l4) —is interesting
reading, but suffers from blind totters in
its facts. This scribe has no desire to
belittle an excellent swim. If Douglas
had swum 98 miles in a typhoon, and
then crawled another 37 miles under
water, holding on to the rocky bed of
ocean by means of a set of patent, alumin-
ium-jointed false teeth, and securing his
back hair with the hand in which he was
not carrying a numerous family and a
kedge anchor, and the entire furniture of
a two-storey brick house, “Wul-Mul” would
have had some real cause for his indigna-
tion. Also, had Mrs. Pitt’s medal been
presented by Nicholas the Greek to the
decrepit maiden aunt of the White Terror
of Badu, the recriminations of the mili-
tant “Bulswool” would have been thor-
oughly justified. But the real facts —not
the “Wul-Mull” variety—are given in my
version. They came from the amphibious
pair themselves, from Pitt’s family, from
men who were in the rescue expedition,
and from official documents. Next time
Z
details with which the resident rejoices to fill the
pans i! e ear the grass-green tourist. Some of
these Thursday Islanders don’t go to church regu-
jariy.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: The railway carriage was
crowded when the derelict climbed in and deposited
a squirming sugar-bag on the rack above the first
seats. “Don’t get puttin’ anythink up there, mates,”
he said to immediate neighbors. “Them’s snakes.”
when I say that in less than five seconds he had
that end of the car to hi lf j tell n
~ , ~ _, ’ ,
than the simple truth. Of course, the guard was
informed, and at Geelong a John Hop interviewed
the' reclining stranger. The trouble as far as he
was concerned was overcome by him reluctantly
opening the bag. It contained five or six rabbits.
>'■” «*** o, trying the Wr I. the smoUlng.
cars where the women monopolise the seating accom-
modation.
A GREAT REFORM.
GRANNY (tired of the everlasting
tumpty, tumpty, tumpty of
Moody and Sankey all day):
“How can you dare spend all
day Sunday like that ? A big.
girl like you ought to be
ashamed of yourself. Go and
read your Bulletin!”
“Eddyson”: I paid my second visit to Red-
;rock a few weeks back. My first visit to Redropk
'was in the Easter of 1908, when I heard the divert-
ing history of the domestic .disturbances of the
Treshams and the Golfoils. Tresham and Golfoil were
sitting in mute and miserable companionship on a
three-rail fence as Witt and I drove past, and Witt
told me. “Them’s neighbors,” he said. “That’s Gol-
foil with the ginger chin whisker. The other bloke,
the one with the blue wart on his eyelid, is. ’Enery
Tresham. They’re cobbers, ’n’ when you see them
sittin’ there, it means they’re swoppin’ sorrers, their
missuses bein’ up.” “Up?” I queried. “My oath!
Up in arms. It’s this way with Bob Golfoil. There
was a time when he could lick, his missus, and done
it when necessary. Don’t you go gettin’ virtuous
about it. There ain’t no call. Bob’s Ann could
put up a good fight on her own. She wouldn’t want
Societies for the Prevention buttin’ into her affairs.
Whatever ’appened was atween her and Bob, ’n’
was part iv the marriage contrac’. If Bob swatted
her with a hoe, she spanked Bob with a pan in mutual
affection. ’Owever, Bob was a handy man in a scrap
where all was in, from spades t’ clubs, ’n’ was master
in his own house —till that Sunday when he ’n his
missus disagreed about the suet duff. Bob hated
duff. Ann got insolent, ’n’ Bob corrected her with
the mutton. I don’t hold with ’ittiri’'- a good wife
with roast leg o’ mutton, especially hot, but every
man to his fancy. Golfoil swatted Ann from the
kitchen door to the pigpen with his Sab.bath meal.
That assault ’n’ battering led to disclosures. In 15
minutes Mrs. Bob was back at scratch, and she had
Mrs. ’Enery Tresham with her. Mrs. Golfoil fired
point blank at Bob with a scrubbin’ brush, ’n’ near
hooked the ear off him. Mrs. Tresham took him on
the left flank with a small piece of fencin’, and in
30 seconds Bob was conscious iv his failure. He
caved in ’n’ apologised. The situation was not fully
understood till Tresham, havin’ occasion to correct
his Lucy with a trace belt, presently found Mrs.
Golfoil workin’ in with two-thirds of a kitchen chair
in her two hands. Tresham was whipped. He had
t’ kneel up ’n’ beg pardon, ’n’ promise to mend his
ways. What had ’appened was a sort iv offensive ’n’
defensive alliance atween Mrs. Golfoil ’n’ Mrs.
Tresham. The ‘ontong cordyil’ they called it. Well,
that ‘ontong’ put the fear iv ’igh Heaven into the
’e'arts iv Golfoil ’n’ Tresham, ’n’ each took second
place in the family councils for some considerable
time after the fift’ consecutive attack iv the allies.
Then Tresham ’ad a brilliant idear. He tore off to
Golfoil with it afore it could go cold on him. What
he had to suggest was an opposition union, him ’n’
Golfoil to form a combine fer their mutual protec-
tion, ’n’ fer purposes of domestic aggression when
same seemed advisable in the interests iv peace ’n’
good govinment. Well, nex’ time the combined
forces iv Ann ’n’ Lucy got at Golfoil, Tresham come
in ez reinforcements, ’n’ there was a fine sample
scrum in Golfoil’s kitchen. But the male element
predominated. Ann ’n’ Lucy was licked with great
slaughter. Also on a subsequent occasion they was
outed. In further engagements the ‘ontong’ got it
good ’n’ ’ard, ’n’ was glad to capitulate. Then there
was more or less silence and domestic peace fer two
months, pendin’ the arrival iv Mrs. Smith, which
said lady was Mrs. Golfoil’s mother. The ’usbands’
union was not good on tactics. It hadn’t suspected
Mrs. Smith’s visit as what’s called a hovert act, but
her appearance was followed almost immediate by a
fresh outbreak, and Mrs. Smith threw her influence,
also two flatirons, agin the union, ’n’ in the interests*
iv the ‘ontong.’ The ‘ontong’ won. Golfoil was in bed
a fortnit. Mrs. Smith is still at Golfoil’s; any at-
tempt to shift her is regarded ez a ‘causes belly’ by
the ‘ontong.’ ’Enery ’n’ Bob, havin’ no power to add
to their numbers, is in a hopeless minority, ’n’ have
’umble pie fer dinner ez oftin ez seven days a week.
When you see ’em out on a fence like this, sittin’
quiet ’n’ silently ciinmiseratin’, you can bet the
‘ontong’ is up and assertin’ itself.” As
stated, I have recently returned from my
•'Second visit to Redrock. The Tresham-Golfoil
complication was still fresh in my mind, and
I went seeking further light. Tresham and
Golfoil were 'not on the fence. A great peace
brooded over the two farms. In the distance I saw
Tresham pointing imperiously, and Lucy, with a
large paij"in her hand, going obediently to the pen.
I trembled fof the “ontong,” and made haste to run
Witt to earth. “How is the Tresham-Golfoil affair
going oij?” I said. “What’s that?” he asked.
“Why, you remember the ‘ontong cordyil’ ?” “Oh,
yes, yes,” he replied. “It's bung. Mrs. Smith’s
dead, an’ the day after she died Tresham and Golfoil
whipped their wives an’ fixed things up peaceable.”
THE COUSIN JACK WAY OF
PUTTING IT.
COUSIN JACK: “Thomas John , when I was
down Adelaide t'other day I see'd thy toffy
uncle wot ez livin' doivn there retired , and
I should very well like to ’ave speak to
un, awnly I didn't like to."
“Jack S.” : Have heard some strange frog
music during my bush wanderings—but have decided
to award the prize to the Queensland tree frog. He
appears to work on some clockwork system, winding
himself up till the spring jams and then releasing
all the startled works with a whirr. It is strangely
like that irritating din which greets the weary tele-
phone user on obeying the dulcet injunction, “Insert
the coin, please.”
(Continued on page 24.)
BINGHI OF MORNINGTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An appeal was recently made by Dr. Mjoberg, the
Swedish scientist, that no white people should be
permitted to settle on Mornington Island, in the Gulf
of Carpentaria, where there are about a thousand
aborigines, who have so far been untouched and
unspoilt by civilisation....
Mr. Hall went, on to say that, of course, the wear-
ing of loin cloths would be encouraged for decency’s
sake....“l don’t say that they can ever be made to
clearly understand the doctrine of the Trinity. But
how many white people understand it? What I do
say is that. . . .Christianity makes a complete change
in their lives.” —- Interview in the Salvation Morning
Herald.
Brother Binghi in his native state is a happy aaid
careless cuss —
He has few ills, and he pays no bills, and he doesn’t
miss the ’bus,
Because there’s never a ’bus to miss where Brother
Binghi dwells ;
He’s black and Avild, and a simple child —as the
missionary tells.
The missionary’s a worthy man, according to our
lights—
lie’s full of cares, but he never swears, and (of
course) he never fights;
But he’s grieved to the heart when he thinks of
Binghi up there in the North,
Without any woes, and without any clo’es, and, so—
he’s going forth !
The scientist—who, of course, can’t know—desires
black Bingfii’V weal,
In the worldly sense, but it gives offence to the
modern Christian’s zeal;
For why should Binghi be let alone, with his pica-
ninny and gin,
In pristine bliss, and therefore miss his share of
sorrow and sin ?
No, no! That’s not the way the Church conducts
things nowadays—
Let souls be saved and the Plate be waved to holy
hymns of Praise!
Though Binghi, frightfully out of date, has never
heard of The Fall,
And Noah’s Ark, and Jonah’s shark — he’s going to
get them all!
And, just as Adam and Eve found out—oh! ever
so long ago—-
The First of Woes, the use of clo’cs, shall come to
Binghi and co.!
With Rum, and Gospel, and Work, and Sin, and
Cant, and dread Disease
We’ll fill his -life, and that of his wife—as she’ll be
when they pay the fees!
Brother Binghi has dwelt Up North since Adam was
a boy—
But now “The Call” (per Reverend Hall) will fill
his heart with joy!
The white folks’ Eden was closed and barred many
thousand .(.ears ago,
And now The >Kirk will do that work for Brother
Binghi and co. 1
N.s.W.
O. C. CABOT.


STEIN BLOCH
American “Smart Clothes” for Men
SIN3DV
Ready to Wear
EMBODY
Style that is the best
the Fashion World
puts forth.
Men who appreciate
“Character” Clothes will be
highly interested in our New
Season’s Models.
Short, Tall or Stout Figures,
we have the size that will fit.
There is deep reason in “Stein
Bloch” popularity —men wear
these clothes because they
give value.
PRICE
£6 6s.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LIMITED,
BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE S.E,
NELSON’S
f air gas
Progress in artificial lighting
has been phenomenal—a few
decades back the humble tal-
low candle cast its flickering
beam in its luminating ser-
vice to man. But change in
the order came —improve-
ments were improved, until
(with the application of
science), methods of produc-
ing light have been sur-
passed.
But the honors have
been left to the “VIC-
TORY” Air Gas Ma-
chine to reach the
climax in light produc-
tion.
“VICTORY”
MACHINE
"vfcTO^
The “VICTORY” is absolutely
perfect in every detail, and adjusts
to any number of lights that are being used
without any attention whatever. The light,
though brilliant, is soft and perfectly steady.
It is a clear, white light, free from violent rays, and does not affect the sight.
ATR GAS made bv the “VICTORY” for low cost of production beats all
comptJtorl It makes IOOa C.t>. light 100 per cent cheaper thar. ottier
luminant. See what this means to you in a year. It saves half your expend
ture and gives you unparalleled light without waste or worry. It will pay you
S give Iww vour old lighting plant-smoky smelly and eipenstve-and install
in its place the “VICTORY” Air Gas Machine —
FROM £25.
Get to know the wonderful advantages of the NELSON VICTORY
Machine— its Superior, Efficient and Economic qualities—and you will extend
to it, as many delightedly have, a hearty welcome home.
Write at once for details; it will cost you nothing to learn all about it.
The Nelson Carbonating Co. will be making an extensive £* hlb tt at
Wine Kiosk at the Royal Agricultural Show, in April. The wonderful
advantages ol the “ VICTORY ” Air Oas Machine will there be demon-
itrated. —Make It your business to get along and see it.
NELSON’S CARBONATING CO. LTD.
219 GEORGE STREET (Circular Quay), SYDNEY.
SIEMENS
IF you require Electrical Plant for any service, communicate with Siemens, We
supply plants for power and lighting work in towns, mines, factories—in
fact, for every duty where electrical equipment is required. The experience that
we have gained in our long existence as electrical manufacturers is at your service.
We have engineers in Australia to solve your problems if required. We supply,
amongst other plant, the following
Turbo-Alternators
Rotary Converters
Transformers
Switchgear AC and DC
Cables and Wires
AC and DC Generators
AC and DC Motors
Electric Locomotives
Railway and Tramway Equipments
Supplies and Accessories of all Kinds
Over 150,000 Horse Power in Machines already Supplied or on Order for Australia
SIEMENS BROTHERS- DYNAMO WORKS, Limited.
42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. 59-61 William Street, MELBOURNE.
' TelegrapHic
,y fk
N.Z. Agents - - A.
Address :-SIEMENS, Sydney or Melbourne.
&. T. BURT, Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Dunedin.


1A
*22 Rim Fire Cartridges
SHORT. LONG. LONG RIFLE.
No Corrosion.
Slight Pressure and High Velocity.
Uniformity Guaranteed.
Highest Grade of English Manufacture
Wholesale only—
Scottish House, 90 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Kynoch House, 277 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY. [x
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
CAN’T SHAKE IT OFF.
How often we hear persons with colds make the
above remark; but Dr. Sheldon’s .New Discovery
shakes them off promptly and effectively in a few
where.* 6d ’ and 3s ‘ Obtainable every-
THE
AUSTRALIANS!!
INSURE
IN
1.0. A
Fire, Marine, Accident, Live Stock.
AGENTS EVERYWHERE.
«n at tuns
rrpiPLtVW closing
E.MASCULATOR.
nui" SAFETY”
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding.
Postage Free 45/-
”Hints on Castrating”
enable any man used to Stock
to cut with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rams, or
Boars.
Other patterns of
Emasoulators from
30/- to 50/
Zoelier’s “Handy”
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoeller,
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for complete
Veterinary Cataloo
It’s FREE
Norbell”: Some facts about the rabbit-
eating proclivities of sheep were produced at a
meeting of the Pastures Board at Gundagai
(N.S.W.) recently. Director Hassett stated that he
had seen sheep “chase each other for a dead rabbit,
like pigs after a cob of corn.” It is only a matter
of time when sheep will be included amongst the
more savage carnivora, and visitors to the Zoo will
be thrilled with the ferocious baa-a-ing of the man-
eating merino, as he devours ensanguined horseflesh.
An added attraction to the circus will be the an-
nouncement that “at the matinee to-day Professor
Wade, the dauntless and intrepid sheep-tamer, will
enter a cage containing five full-grown wethers.”
State school children will be instructed in what to
do in case of sheep-bite, and Australian sheep runs
will be the hunting ground of daring big-game
slayers from all over the world. The commonest
newspaper headings in those days will be “Savage
Attack on a Shearer. Mauled by a Hogget.” And
Bulletin bards may add a tragic thrill to their
verses on “The Death of the Lonely Boundary-rider.”
His faithful tame sheep will be watching his corpse,
the animal having slain 145 crows, two foxes, 10
wild dogs, a priest, a Levite, a horse, two eagles
and a debt-collector in defence of his owner’s re-
mains. He will be regretfully shot as the only way
of letting the undertaker get at the ruins of the
late lamented. And in those days the lion that tries
to lie down with the lamb will arise and run six
miles when he finds what he has been lying down
with.
“Masarcus”: Can anyone tell me where
the water-hyacinth came from? All I know about
it is that the spread of it is making the men on
the N.S.W. North Coast shiver. It is a sort of fresh-
water priekly-rabbit curse which some fool introduced,
which nobody wants, and which could easily have
been cleared out in the beginning if the authorities
had not left the job till next week. The l’omki
Shire Council is buzzing around looking for a suit-
able weapon with which to kill it. The buzzing has
been getting hurried of late, but still it isn’t half so
hurried as the spread of the hyacinth up the Rich-
mond River. Soon the boats will not be able to
run, and the people who ought to have taken precau-
tions years ago, but didn’t, will have to dodge
quickly if they don’t want to be brained by frenzied
cockies who can’t get their cream to the factories.
“S.H.G.”: The man with grass-seeds in
his whiskers is a whale on “records.” If he can’t
make one any other way he’ll do it by straining his
waggon to death and wrecking the bush tracks. The
present is the season for this sort of lunacy. At
Mirrool (N.S.W.) a farmer, Staniforth, with a
waggon weighing 3 tons 18cwt. 2qr., carted to the
station two loads each of 250 bags of wheat, the
first with 17 horses and the second with 10 ; distance
eight miles. Another, Hodge, at Forbes, landed 225
bags behind a team of 11, one of the leaders being
a staid prad of 22. Mostly the man who practises
this sort of trick with his plant has to do a bit of
unloading and reloading on the track, and it doesn’t
pay; but that’s of no consequence—he gets all the
satisfaction he wants by being talked of for 12
months as the “gun” of the season.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
CITY BOY: “Take milk?"
COUNTRY BOY: “No thanks ; no condiments."
Gouger”: I have met live things hiding
in many curious places, but the most fantastic lair of
all was in a tiny seam of mud, 25 feet beneath the
solid rock surface. He was a little brown toad, and
his tiny eyes never even winked in the candle light,
the first light he must have seen for countless years,
perhaps it was the first he had ever seen. Pressed in
by millions of tons of rock, without air, without
food or moisture, unless it percolated to him from the
surface through the seam of mud, this ill-shapen
castaway had life. I put him out of harm’s way, and
went on sinking. If he liked to live in such an out
of the way place I guess it was no business of mine;
if he got his living there without work, so much the
more power to him. I know I couldn’t. The shaft
proved a duffer.
SLEEP , MY BELOVED , SLEEP!
CONTRACTOR (catching laborer asleep): “Sleep on! Sleep on! For while you're asleep
you've got a job, but when you wake you'll have none!”
“Y.”: “Bathurst,” said the Rev. M. J.
O Reilly, the other day, “has the habit of giving
the lead to the rest of N.S.W.’’
He referred, in particular, to the
two Bathurst priests who went on
the platform at John Redmond’s
first Home Rule meeting in Syd-
ney. There were other things
that he might have mentioned in
support of his argument. Bathurst
has had the wildest aboriginal
fights witnessed in the white man’s
lifetime. Its gaol was at one time
the worst managed in all Aus-
tralia. Its gaol riot was the
biggest and most furious on
record. Eighty prisoners were
killed, and 10 of the survivors of
the fray were hanged together.
Spider, the blackfellow, some of
whose bones are believed to be
under Deniehy’s monument in
Waverley Cemetery, was a Bath-
urst man, and was suspended on
his native heath. Bathurst
evolved such curiosities as Dan
Mayne, and Taylor, who went in
his halfmast-high trousers and
fought a law case before the
Privy Council. And finally it
gave N.S.W. a lead in the matter
of the discovery of gold. It
tried to hide the fact that there
was gold in the neighborhood, but
failed.
“Oibi”: A very much prized shrub
amongst Kiwais (western villagers of Papua) is
gamada. It has a leaf resembling tobacco leaf in
shape and size; has a notchy stem as in sugarcane;
grows to a height of 10 to 12 feet, and is exten-
sively cultivated for its remedial properties. The
name “gamada” is really the native word for the
drink that is prepared from the root or stem of the
plant. This is cut and sliced into pieces, and, after
washing, compressed for the much-prized juice. The
liquid is of a light brown color, and a wineglassful
is a fair nip. The intoxicating effect of gamada on
the natives so perturbed the missionaries of Western
Papua that they threatened to induce the Govern-
ment to destroy the plant. The threat put- the brake
on for a while, but on appeal to the magistrate it
was found by Brown Brother that the gun wasn't
loaded. I believe the gamada is existent in the
Solomon Islands, but, there, the islander, instead of
preparing a drink as above mentioned, chews the
stem of the plant a la sugarcane.
P. J.M.”: Re the efficacy or otherwise of
the divining rod. Bob Lane, an old Tamworth
(N.S.W.) identity, has been a Arm upholder of the
forked stick for locating hidden deposits of the
precious fluid for quite 30 years past. His experi-
ences at Goonoo Goonoo, the 313,000-acre holding
of the Peel River Land and Mineral Co., are worth
recording. With the assistance of the divining-rod
he selected no fewer than 20 sites on this co.’s pro-
perty where bores were put down. The country
operated upon is undulating, and rock was encoun-
tered at a depth of from 20ft. to 25ft. from the
surface. The bore went down varying depths from
100 ft. to 130 ft., and in 18 cases water was encoun-
tered giving a flow of from 500 gals. to 600 gals. per
hour. In the remaining two instances water was
struck, but the supply was insufficient. Geo. King,
general superintendent of the P.R.L. and M. Co., will
verify these statements. The co. was so well satisfied
with Lane’s work that it sent him to the Currawil-
linghi (Q.) station property. Here he picked out 10
sites in country varying from open blacksoil' plains
to sand ridges and scalded ground. Water was
tapped in every instance at depths ranging from 90ft.
to 130 ft., and the flow in each case went from
300 gals. to 400 gals. per hour. The Peel River Co.,
at any rate, goes nap on him as a diviner.
TAKE OUT YOUR TEETH!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He ordered her to remove her teeth.
—Evidence in assault case.
Because she would not be my love,
I wanted to destroy her;
I did not want to kill my dove,
But simply to annoy her.
My scorned heart thumped my vest beneath
I told her to take out her teeth.
She shook her head. I roared, “Take out
Your teeth this very minute!”
Too long with love I’d fooled about,
And there was nothing in it.
I longed—so twisted were my wits
To make her take herself to bits.
Because she’d been my idol sweet,
I longed to see her yammer.
I shouted for her pearly teeth.
To smash them with a hammer
That was my purpose. (Do not start.
I’d finished with my work of art.)
\
Behold young Love! When scorned is he
Through his own foolish doin’s,
Above all things he longs to see
His goddess laid in ruins!
Lay on Affection’s tomb a wreath!
Take out your teeth. TAKE OUT YOUR
TEETH!!
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
The Conversion.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the story of Inesterton's curious
turn. Inesterton lived at Sugartree.
and was a bad man, a notoriously
bad man; big in drinking, and great at
swearing; a gambler and a contemner of
churches. He scoffed at the loud preachers
and scorned the singers of hymns. It was
ne who on a memorable evening took a large
hammer, upended three elders and a Sunday-
school superintendent, and broke the bell of
the Sugartree Wesleyan Chapel because, he
said, its ringing interfered with the calcula-
tions of his card party. A great, swaggering
ruffian was David Inesterton, a thundering
atheist who disbelieved in the devil, to the
great scandal of his neighbors, to whom
Satan and his furnaces had been a lifelong
comfort and consolation. But Inesterton had
land and lucre, consequently it was held by
many authorities that he had some right to
manhandle, the established religions and maul
sacred objects—a right which would not
apply in the case of an impecunious scamp.
One day Inesterton went quietly through
his house, and invited all therein, family,
servants and guests, to assemble at 11 in
the apple orchard. The party, numbering
fourteen, gathered as requested. It was
reinforced by Twin, the rouseabout, a shep-
herd, and a chance sundowner whom David
had entrapped in the yard.
Inesterton did not keep his congregation
long in doubt; he presently appeared carry-
ing a larere box. He set the box on end, and
out of it he took a two-stone family Bible,
which he opened at random on the top of
the box. He next brought forth a rifle, which
he laid beside the Bible. Next appeared
two revolvers. One revolver he placed on
top of the Word, the other he placed in his
belt. “Now,” said David, “you unregenerate
vipers, prepare to be dashed well saved!”
And he uttered a loose yell, and leaped
several feet in the air.
An evil-liver named Scaddan, a guest of
David’s, burst into a roar of coarse laughter.
“What’s the game?” he said. “The game,”
replied Inesterton gravely, “is the salvation
of your immortal, blue-mouldy soul, you
degenerate infidel. Kneel, or I’ll shoot tun-
nels through your heathen ribs.”
Scaddan did not like the look in David’s
eye, and. he was impelled to turn and run;
but David Inesterton fired, and shot him in
the hat, and Scaddan fell, and came back
humbly to the fold on all fours. “Good !” said
David. “There is more joy in heaven over
one sinner who repents than over five hun-
dred dozen righteous ones coming on for
their rewards. Beloved, we are met and
assembled here this blessed day to seek atone-
ment for our blooming sins. Down on your
knees!” David took up the gun. “Down
on your knees, ye unrighteous! Down,
Twin, you pestilent drinker, curser and
swearer, Sabbath-breaker, evil-thinker, and
stealer of sheep. Down, you damn scoun-
drel !” Twin went down. The whole crowd
went down.
Then David Inesterton began to read
Scripture to his tremulous congregation. He
read on and on in a loud, monotonous voice,
straight from the beginning, on through the
family history of Adam, and the thrilling
account of the great begettings, to Jacob’s
coming to the well of Haran, and the births
of Reuben, Simeon, Levi and Judah, and
still on and on out of Genesis into Exodus.
At the point where Moses fled into Midian
the sundowner tried to creep from the place
of worship, but a rifle bullet hitting up the
earth under his nose brought him back. Now
and then David paused from his reading to
expound, and to point out wherein the special
text hit home on the immoral horde to whom
it was his precious mission to bring grace and
light.
David Inesterton preaching was not unlike
David roaring at a bunch of stubborn bul-
locks in a bog. His language was that of
the heathen in his blindness, but there was
no disputing the. excellence of his intentions
and his deep. religious fervor. Also he was
plainly dangerous, and there was murder as
well as piety in his eye. All through the
long, hot day he read the Word. By sun-
down he was over in Deuteronomy. When
he found it too dark to read, he made the
haggard congregation light bonfires. By the
illumination of the fires he resumed service,
and presently burst right through Judges
info the frontiers of Joshua.
But one man, Smith by name, had broken
from the flock, and ridden like mad to Scho-
field for police, assistance and medical atten-
tion. And while Inesterton was just on the
edee of the first book of Samuel five men—
Jones, Murphy, Donoghue, Briggs and
McTaggart—fell upon him from behind.
David put up a great fight for religious
libertv, but was overcome and removed in
custody, clamoring to be permitted to stay
and take up the collection.
Inesterton’s present trouble is religious
mania. He converts millions weekly with
the aid of a large Bible and an imaginary
Maxim gun. His case is considered extra-
ordinary. No '-•ne can understand where he
picked up the idea.
SILAS SNELL.


SAUND /ADVICE
■
r
D
Q
*
m
m
! W
•4 ■ v
■mi**
r>
■ : -
I
2*
i*
-
;
i 1
m
a
a
'
x }"> V .
, ■
»// ;
• v . ; .* t
mm
i
.
■ i
1 - •
■
i
JPi
M
sgi
f
.; i,
: VI ;. *.
k ■:
jm.
M
4
■I i" -
* •• • '
,
m
I/A ■:
1
1
Be.5T For.
LQfSO-WEdR.
SPEED 3
£o<iTINEnT4L £z£s RuPPER Is Fi> Lp All ST4TES £} fi.7


A New Lease of Health.
“ The wonders brought about by this
preparation are no less manifold than
amazing.”
So writes a well-known physician in
the Medical Press and Circular one
of sixteen thousand doctors who have
testified to the value of Sanatogen in
various kinds of weakness, loss of nerve-
power, impaired digestion, brain-fag,
sleeplessness, and general weakness.
SaHatogen, the tonic food with lasting
effects, has given a new lease of health
to more than a million sufferers, in-
cluding many of the most distinguished
people in the land.
Nerve Power Restored.
The reason for Sanatogen’s great
efficacy in nervous disorders has been
pointed out by no less an authority than
Sir Charles A. Cameron, C. 8., M.D.,
Public Analyst of Dublin, who states:
“ Sanatogen is an excellent nerve food,
containing a large amount of organic
phosphorus in exactly the form in which
it can be easily absorbed.”
But Sanatogen does more than revivify
the nervous system. It also builds up
the muscular tissues and has a beneficial
effect upon every organ of the body.
Write for a Free Booklet.
All who feel run down, weary am!
depressed—Nature’s warning of nervous
weakuess —should write to-day for a Free
Booklet, “ The Art of Diving,” to Messrs.
A. Wulfing & Co., 17, Bond Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Kindly mention this
paper when writing.
Sanatogen is sold by all Chemists,
price 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per tin.
1
%
'■■i
*1
;
m
■
if;
i
«
1/
■
w I have watched the effects of Sanatogen upon persons suffering
from various kinds of weakness and loss of ncrve"power, and I
have proved it to be most valuable.” —Lady Henry Somerset.
Pourri-Pourri.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
pourri-pourri (devil business for
I short interpretation) of Papua pro-
yides uncanny experiences for the
most sceptical white. Some of my own have
been weird enough, but they can be counted
as minor hoodoo in comparison with the ex-
periences of people of longer residence and
wider roving in the Possession. Neverthe-
less, it will be more satisfactory to leave
hearsay evidence on one side and set down
my own observations of the science of black
magic or whatever it is.
Between Lakekamu and the other side of
Samarai, Micky W was on gold, and
the best “boy” in his mining team, a splen-
did worker, suddenly went sick. Micky
brought to bear all the medical skill acquired
while a wardsman in a big city hospital, but
the “boy” merely became weaker. It was clear
that, if Micky wanted his employee, the
doctor was urgently required. But when
the doctor had completed his examination
he declared there was nothing the matter
with Ra-liu. The puzzled boss then started
a cross-examination, which eventually
brought out the information that a big
pourri-pourri man, who lived in a village
the other side of Samarai, had pourri-pourried
Ra-liu because he (the devil expert) wanted
a certain kind of very rare and costly shell,
and unless he got it within a given period
Ra-hu would pass hence. It must be under-
stood that there was no communication of
any kind between Lakekamu and Samarai,
except by a coastal steamer, which called at
the mouth of the river (two days’ journey
from the camp) at long intervals. She was
just about due at this time after an absence
of six or seven weeks. So Ra-hu hadn t got
his information concerning the requirement
of the pourri-pourri citizen by earthly means,
as the saying is. His master, looking at
the position from a commercial basis, apart
from his regard for the sick brown brother,
concluded it would pay to obtain a shell
according to specifications and hand it in
to have the pourri-pourri called off. He,
therefore, gave his head boy £2O, told him
to catch the steamer and get a move on tor
the locality of the marine product, thence
hustle to the pourri-pourri operator. Ten
days later, on the first Sunday of the moon,
Ra-hu, who had been dying all day, and
could scarcely hold up his hand, suddenly
walked into Micky’s quarters and said ‘bis
sick was finished,” and he was ready to go
to the claim and dig, next daylight. Sure
enough he did. When the head boy returned
he told how, after much searching, he had
gotten the required specimen of shell, on the
first Sunday of the moon, though he had not
delivered it to the pourri-pourri blackmailer
(who lived 50 miles inland) until some
days later.
Then, there was Sarua, of the armed
constabulary. He went sick one Saturday
morning, and, fearing he might have beri-
beri, the Commandant sent him to hospital.
The doctor sounded h;m all over, and de-
cided that there was nothing wrong; but,
as a change of locality and surroundings
might do good, he ordered him to stay in
hospital “for observation” for a day or so.
Sarua seemed in great pain, and said there
was a stone in his side. Later in the day
Vagi-mari, the head orderly, told me that a
pourri-pourri man on the Mambare, seven
days’ distant by steamer, Ird evil-eyed Sar.ua
so that he must die on Monday at sundown.
We therefore gave Sarua strong medicines
to “kill” the stone, and fed him on foods
most approved by Papuans. Monday came,
and he was walking about apparently quite
recovered; said he felt “proper good. Lut
just as the sun set, lie put down the mug of
cocoa he was drinking and fell back dead.
Yet, the post-mortem examination showed
that he was well nourished and perfectly
normal in all parts of liis body. When I
went round to the hospital next morning,
all the patients were chattering excitedly
together. “Boys” from all parts of Papua,
who couldn’t speak each other’s dialects,
Malays and other Outlanders, all told how
the dead police “boy’s” devil. (ghost) had
come to the hospital door during the night,
clad in uniform, and cried and screamed to
them to let him in. In describing the
ghost’s uniform, they all stressed the fact
that the red constabulary belt was missing,
and although they could not know it, it is a
fact that the belt had been stolen from the
deceased and secreted. One of the Malays,
an old man unafraid of Papuan natives,
opened the door a little, whereupon the dead
man tried to push past. The crowd thrust
him off with sticks, for human hands, they
explained, cannot feel nor touch “devils.”
The men of the Maiva people have the
power of withdrawing their spirits from
their bodies and transferring them to a
ghost or devil village. Walking for some
days into the bush, they eat particular roots.
On the second night of the moon they fast,
and, before lying down to sleep, lave their
bodies in the water of a running, stream.
For three weeks after that they live with
the ghost people, conversing with them, and
walking in their company, although they
cannot touch them. No woman, and no
man who is married, may visit the ghost
village. Those who make the trip are known
to their friends by the peculiar odor that
clings to them for months afterwards.
Finally, this is how I lost my little tur-
quoise ring, and how pourri-pourri brought
it back. I left it on a table in one of the
hospital wards, and returning some time
later found that it had After
careful but unsuccessful search, Kukane,
then head boy, said: “Suppose I make one
pourri-pourri along findum ring you wild?”
I assured him I wanted the ring however it
was found. Next morning it was handed to
me. with the explanation of Kukane. He
and Lai (a boy from another district) had
walked about on a hill and found “weeds,”
which they carried home and infused in hot
water. Whilst the native patients (some
501 were asleep a few drops _ were
sprinkled on the pillow of each. Kukane
and Lai drank what remained of the decoc-
tion and rolled up in their blankets. Whilst
they slept the “devil” of the thief came and
showed them where the ring, wrapped m.a
rag and buried under a stone, was hidden.
The thief, a Purari cannibal, who couldn't
understand a word of their “talk,” cheer-
fully admitted that he was the culprit.
Pourri-pourri is a punishable offence in
Papua, but it has its uses.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.
In the Surf.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EIGHT o’clock on a silver-grey morning.
The sea is of the hue of a sword-
blade breathed upon. The great,
slow waves roll in almost silently, and
break into vaporous blooms. Bridal veils
of finest spray are thrown caressingly upon
the grey rocks in the distance. On the
beach, where the little waves play with vel-
vet paws, like little coquettish cats, there is
a delicate, curving line of silver braid. Head-
land beyond headland lies with feet in the
waters like some giant beast of pxekistoiic
days, turned into stone while drinking. The
nearest headland is dark and grim as the
Tower to which Childe Roland came, the
farthest is misty and faint as a castle in
Dreamland. Far away on the horizon is a
phantom ship. The sun comes from behind
the gauzy clouds for a moment and trans-
figures her. She is the Spirit of Poetry walk-
ing the waters. The place of vision is the
Fairy Bower at Manly at eight o’clock on a
silver-grey morning.
* * * *
Three figures of men in bathing costume
emerge from the surf and run rapidly up the
beach to the fence on which their clothes
hang. These are the heroes, the stalwarts
of Manly. With stubborn courage, not un-
mingled, perhaps, with a little bravado, they
breast the breakers every morning, summer
and winter, sun or rain, warm or cold, calm
or storm, and come forth with faces of the
color of boiled plums. They deserve honors,
and should have their praises sung in lotty
verse. The following lines may pass for
want of better :
In the days antique
Gracefully the Greek,
Who in marble dreamed,
To each Hero deemed
Worthy of renown
Gave a parsley crown
And a statue fair
In the public square.
If Australian Art
Means to play its part
In this land of rare
Blue-and-golden air,
Here are subjects grand
For the sculptor’s hand 1
Make a diadem
Green for each of them.
Lacking parsley —pooh!
Thistle-crowns will do.
But to do them justice they are quite able
to sing their own praises. The 10.10 boat
to Sydney resounds with their boasting.
That is after they have had breakfast, now-
ever. When they come out of the water tney
give one goosefiesh to look at them.
All the rest of the familiar faces and
figures have vanished. Where art thou now,
sweet Undine, with the slender form anu
feet of ivory, and where art thou, O snowy-
bearded Neptune, who couldst tame the wild
sea-horses once? Where art thou, Danie
O’Connor? There is no answer from tne
deserted beach or the lonely waters, lkey
have all departed, all the familiar figures, to
their homes in the inland suburbs. By the
way, the real residents of the \illage look
upon Sydney as a suburb of Manly. In
their geography the former is a Pl a !-® chiefly
noted for its export of visitors. Manly is
self-centred —“round and perfect as a star.
It has its own council, and its own bowling-
green, its own Cardinal’s palace and its own
steam merry-go-round. What more does a
little town require to be happy?
* * ■» *
Still, one misses the women in dressing-
gowns, walking back from the beach in the
mornings, carpet-slippered or barefoot as
goddesses. Also the men with towels around
their necks, who drop into the hotel for a
drink on their way home, to breakfast. And
the laughing and dancing in the surf, that
seems itself to laugh in sheer gladness ot
life and motion. And the men and women
together, clad in decent bathing suits, diving
into the sparkling breakers, and rejoicing,
untrammelled by convention, in the golden
sunshine. It is a sight to make an old man
young again. Bald-headed men, who when
they go to the city an hour or two after-
wards, sit in their officers as solemn as
sphinxes, have thrown aside the cares of
business for a time and are capering around
and ducking each other like boys, ret there
are sour-faced, narrow-minded Puritans who
see harm in this, little knowing that the sea
is the finest of moral disinfectants. Let
them gnash their teeth.
* * *
Women are never so natural as when they
are in the surf. They are then free from the
cramping slavery of corsets, and seem to
revel in their temporary liberty. They are
not troubled about their figures. Stout and
lean, they enjoy themselves equally with the
few who have fine figures by grace of Nature.
And, to tell the truth, these latter are very
few indeed. I would not advise a man in
search of a wife to go to Manly Beach in
the bathing season to choose one, if beauty of
shape be the chief feminine charm in his
eyes. Let him stay in the city and cherish
his illusions.
* * w
I want to start a company to work a
water toboggan at Manly in time for next
season. The idea is to erect a lofty platform
on the beach above tide-mark, and to have
two lines of rails running out into the sea
beyond the breaker-line. Cars to run on the
rails, each car to be capable of seating, say,
half a dozen persons. One set to run down
while the other runs back. A breathless rush
through the breakers and back again without
effort! What do you think of it? _
VICTOR J. DALEY.


TO OUR COUNTRY VISITORS
This is a Notice of Special Importance.
This Easter Sydney offers you a new Show=place—a new attraction —Australia’s premier pleasure resort
THE GREAT WHITE CITY
RUSH CUTTERS BAY.
The place you have heard so much about. The place you have come so far to see.
THE PLACE WHICH WAS FASHIONED FOR FUN.
PI'W-
48$8S^H&
>
M 3
| tf **!4lllBl
IV >J
tm
>« X;: >9j ; :^: ; >>: ; :
Sir George Reid said that The White City
was more beautiful than The White
City , London .
Everybody says it is more entertaining
than anything they ever saw before .
Big FREE ATTRACTIONS
The Pick of Vaudeville Acts in
OPEN AIR THEATRE.
Unique Performances by
World-famous Park Artists
Promenade Concerts.
White City Military Band
Musical Director—R. H. McANALLY.
Where to Buy Ticßets.
You can buy Books of Tickets in The Exhibition
Hall at the Royal Show, or you can pay at
White City Entrances.
How to Get There.
From tHe City
Take the Watson's Bay, Ocean
Street, Dover Road or Bellevue
Hill Tram from King 1 Street.
From North, Sydney
Special Ferry Steamers leave
Milson*s Point at frequent
intervals.
TIMES OF OPENING -
Nightly 6.45 to 11 p.m.
Saturdays 2 to 11 p.m.
Easter Monday ... 10 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Easter Week ... 2to 11 p.m. every day.
SIXPENCE.
ADMISSION
General Manager: T. H» ESLICK, C.E.
its
I
ft?**
H
i
a»
v«->


9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, sot Pearls
and Colored Stones,
25/-
9ct. Gold Links,
Richly Engraved any
Initials, 25/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
9ct. Gold Broocli, set Pearls and Garnet,
15/-
AUNDtRS
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER,
Quite New Designs
from our Showrooms, and from our newly-issued Jewellery Supple-
ment containing thousands of exquisite ideas. The production is
free to YOU. Will you write for a Copy?
9ct. Gold Links,
N i c e 1 v Engraved,
20/-;
15ct. Gold, 35/-
9ct. Gold Ear-
rings, set Pearls
and Colored Stones,
.20/-
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Brooch, set
Ruby or Sapphire, 25/-
'///;
1
9ct. (} o 1 d Half-
Round Plain Buckle
Bracelet, £3.
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-
15ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
15/-; 18ct.
Gold, 20/-
18ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
40/-
18ct. Gold, All
Diamond Cluster,
£7/10/-
18ct,. Gold, set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
15ct. Gold and Plati
num Brooch, set Dia
monds and Ruby, £5.
Lady’s Solid Silver Wristlet Watch, the
Newest Shape, Full Jewelled, Lever Movement, Com-
pensation Balance, set in Leather Wristlet, 50/-
A.SAUNDERS
32/6
32|6
Gold Necklace, set Pure White Pearls & Amethysts, 32/6.
Oct. Gold
Pendant, set
Pearls and Gar-
nets or Amethysts,
25/-
20/-
Gent.’s Nickel Noii-Magnetic
Keyless Lever, Full Jewelled,
With Patent Balance, Non-Magnetic
Time Spring, Dust and Water proof
Cases, 20/-; Extra Quality, 25/-
2 51-
Gfc,
9ct. Gold Pen-
dant, set Pearls and
Amethysts or Garnets,
20/-
Oct. Gold
Wedding King,
20/-; 15ct.
Gold, 20/-;
18ct. Gold,
80/-
18ct. Gold, set
5 Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £5.
Oct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
10/-; 15ct.
Gold, 15/-;
18ct. Gold,
20/-
18ct. Gold,
Diamond Clus-
ter Ring, £lO.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar
Buckle Brooch, set Pure
Pearls, 35 / -
Oct. Gold Bracelet,
set Diamonds and Red
Stones, £4/10/-
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, Full Jewelled, Lever Movement,
Compensation Balance, Keyless Works, £5/10/-;
15ct. Gold, £lO.
807-817 GEORGE STREET, OPP. RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY
M A dd
WINFRED
CIGARETTES
w
Nf
R
E
D
c
I
o
32?
'
4^
iUv
iiW
bvc
F
I
N
E
S
T
V
I
R
G
I
IN
1
A
io
FOR
D
6
DELICIOUS IN FLAVOUR UNIOUE IN'OUALITY
OF ALL HIGH CLASS TOBACCONISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
I
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., London Eng
20
FOR
If


b
PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING
LIQUID
c
m
m
, "
v '
s# 1
/
,-w:
r
»?*
i
Sm
&
m
a
w
m-
w
*-V
&^-0m
IS
<o°%.
t£
W*
\
K 'W 5
5®
fe
; ".
BLACK*
RED and
BLUEo
EM P’S PATENT
SHEEP BRANDING LIQUID
BLACK,
RED and
BLUE.
IS NOT AN OIL, AND WILL
NOT INJURE THE WOOL.
Cases containing two 4-gallon Tins,
4/6 Gallon ; or eight 1-gallon Tins,
5/- Gallon.
AGENTS IN MELBOURNE (Dalg'ety (Sb Co. Ltd.).
.» „ SYDNEY (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.).
•j H ADELAIDE (D. CSb J. Fowler Ltd.).
*» KINGSTON, S.A. (Dalgety (Sb Co. Ltd.).
•> BRISBANE (E. Rich (Sb Co. Ltd.).
AGENTS IN ROCKHAMPTON CSb Co. Ltd
„ „ TOWNSVILLE (Sb Co- Ltd.).
„ „ FREMANTLE (Dalgety (Sb Co, Eta.),
i, HOBART (Wm. Crosby (Sb Co.).
„ LAUNCESTON (W. T. Bell (Sb Co. Eta.)
ft


A HOME-MADE HAIR GROWER,
THAT DOES MARVELS.
During the last few years announcements
have appeared occasionally telling how to
make a really good hair tonic that would
actually make the hair grow, and it gives us
great pleasure to learn that so many who
tried it have obtained such remarkable
results. One lady writes that immediately
after reading the formula, she went to her
chemist and had him put up, as directed,
1 ounce of Lavona de Composee, i dram
Menthol Crystals, and 3 ounces Bay Rum.
She took this home and, although her hair
had been falling out terribly, and she was
threatened with baldness, she was astonished
and delighted to note that the falling out
of the hair stopped immediately, and the
hair itself began to grow in an amazing
manner. In fact, she states that it has
already grown nearly 8 inches in a little over
two months. Moreover, her hair is now
brighter, gh :sier and more luxuriant than
ever, and is still growing. She rubbed the
tonic into the roots twice a day for the first
three weeks, but now applies it only once a
day. It is especially interesting to note
from this and other reports that this home-
made hair grower not only makes the hair
grow most marvellously, but it also destroys
the dandruff germ and keeps the hair roots
and scalp in a perfectly healthy and normal
condition.*
“The PAOUIN”
OF SYDNEY.
FOR ORIGINALITY
OF STYLE.
w
Ladies ’ Tailor 6 s Costumier
(Late David Jones),
OCEAN HOUSE,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SCOTLAND’S BEST.
FUME SCOTCH
WHISKY.
NEVER FAILS TO PLEASE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The latest theory of the anti Defence and
Peace Society men is that wars are made
solely by the influence of great cannon-selling
firms, like Krupp’s and Armstrong’s, and
that but for their craving to sell a few more
cannon there would be universal peace. So,
presumably, Krupp or Armstrong or Maxim
sooled Samson on to the Philistines, and sold
him the famous jawbone.
“A.H.,” on Defence :
It looks as if both Federal parties are going shaky
on Defence ; and if they go further they’ll both fare
worse. The solid men in botli camps, and in no
camp, are satisfied that the Defence scheme is the
one really vital thing the party system has ground
out for the last few years, and a multitude of them
would leave their old friends rather than let a hand
be laid on it. But the little men —men like Palmer
of Echuca and Mathews of Port Melbourne —are turn-
ing capacious ears towards the noisy peace societies
and red-rag Socialists. The Liberal organisers of
Melbourne held a conversazione, or bun-fight, recently,
and amused themselves by voting on the “most un-
democratic action of the Fisher Ministry.” And the
compulsory clauses of the Defence Act took a high
place on the poll! On the other side, Mathews and
Fenton, M'sII.R... foregathering with their constitu-
ents recently, joined in the dolorous yelp at the
“oppressiveness” of universal training; and the
Broken Hill people have not yet given up making
asses of themselves over alleged “martyrs of free-
dom.” Meanwhile the Melbourne Peace Society is
noisier than ever, and it lately imported Yankee Starr
Jordan to heln raise a bigger and more blinding
dust. One mob objects to compulsion, another to the
cost, another to “militarism” of all sorts ; and among
them they make enough commotion to set oppor-
tunist politicians philandering. It is up to someone
to give these people fair warning that they’d better
wait and see what happens to the first political crowd
that monkey's with the system It will go right
out into the wilderness, even as Ilagar went from the
tents of Abraham; and it won’t come back for a
long time. The scheme has got hold of the imagina-
tion of Australia as no other has ever done. The
shoe may pinch a little, but we are not going bare-
foot a "ain ; and sooner than throw our defences back
into confusion and ineffectiveness, Australia will see
both parties split from top to bottom, and cast out as
rubbish. Henry Stead may write to London and tell
them that a “great change of opinion” is taking
place. But let Henry come out at the next election
on a No-Defence ticket, and the only opinion that
will he changed will be his. This continent is going
to remain Anglo-Saxon and White, even if we have
to pay a lot more than we are doing to keep it so.
THE FRIEND.
Our obligations with Japan provide against an
increase of the European squadrons in the Far East.
The bond between Britain and Japan means the
effective protection of Australasia.
— First, Lord of the Admiralty.
"Bill, my little man, he's here to help me pro-
tect you! And in any case , you needn't
be afraid of him while I have hint attached
by this tie!”
“Perhaps; but that tie is only mads of paper,
ain't it? ”
The Posidonia having apparently been
murdered —that is to say lost —with all on
board, the owners, which are the Anglo-
Foreign Fibre Co. of Adelaide, are reported
to have ordered a new sea-veliicle to be
butchered —we mean despatched—from Hol-
land. Reading the Scripture in a
dim light the other evening, this scribe
thought he came across the parable of
the Unjust Dredge and the widow. It proved
to be a Judge, not a Dredge, but that only
shows that the Jews weren’t a seafaring folk.
The connection between a widow and an im-
ported dredge would strike any nation which
knew the sea.
The petition of politician Walter Bennett
against the return of William Brown, as
member for Durham, in which he (Bennett)
addressed the Governor as “our trusty and
well-beloved Sir Gerald Strickland, our Gov-
ernor of our State of New South Wales,”
was challenged in the Assembly last week
by member J. J. Cohen. The point of order
taken was that the petition was not couched
in decorous or respectful language. Cohen
said he “could conceive of nothing more arro-
gant or impertinent than for any subject of
the realm to use language which could only
be used by the King or his representative.”
Speaker Meagher ruled that he would not
prevent the petition being considered by rea-
son of a misapprehension or clerical error.
Then the House let its bated breath go with
a blow-out, and the wheel of business rolled
on.
The Fabian (Eng.) Research Committee
has discovered a ghastly ill result of the
present working of the Compulsory Insur-
ance Act in Britain.
Millions of families that are living on less than
£1 a week are practically always sick. The Act
extracts a loaf of bread weekly, from bare cupboards,
starving them farther into illness.
LARGE THINGS AND SMALL.
The Chicago Meat Company, with a capital of
£15,000,000, intends to open branches in Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide. The company, which
already has a branch in Brisbane, will do extensive
cattle-buying. —Sydney Telegraph.
T HE CAMEL: “ Now, who's afraid of yer
bloomin needle ?”
It is up to some humane Government,
which doesn’t want to have too many
drowned bones on its mind, to put a 200 per
cent, duty on imported dredges. The dredge
that never returned is a butchery, a grave-
yard, a scandal, an unpleasant ghost, and
some other things which are crowded out.
The old sea-songs want to be re-written from
the standpoint of the hopeless tub of steel
which goes forth with its coffin under its
arm, in the sure and dreadful hope that it
will never reach the other end and see its
best girl again.
The other day Senator McColl said of the
Commonwealth Bank (an institution of
which he, as a Minister, is in position of a
director) :
This bank, which was going to do such great
things, was about £50,000 to the bad already, and
was likely to grow worse.
To which ex-Frime Minister Fisher re-
plied :
That statement is a lie, and is such that had
McColl made it about a private institution he would
have found himself in immediate and serious diffi-
culties. Before he made it, the Ministry of which
he is a member knew that, for the last half-year,
the bank made a net profit of £1517 9s. 4d. ; so
either Mr. McColl is not trusted with information
known to his colleagues or he has deliberately and
maliciously tried to mislead the shareholders of the
institution of which he is a director.
Which is a fairly solid charge to lay against
a public man. The amazing thing is that so
far McColl has maintained what is usually
known as a Guilty Silence. He hasn’t even
called Fisher a Lying Hound.
Treasurer John Forrest reports a falling-
off in the Customs revenue. In that case
what is the matter with an import duty
(say 10 per cent.) on foreign loans, and a 5
per cent, export or wharfage duty on in-
terest? It is difficult to imagine anything
more beautiful than a wharfage duty on
interest.
Prime Minister Cook is all right oratori-
cally while it is a mere mater of yelling
“Tripe!” but he seems to
flounder when plainer Eng-
lish is required. Last week
the daily paper young man
called round to ask if there
was anything in the state-
ment that G.-G. Denman was
flying from the country prin-
cipally because he (Cook)
and Iceberg Irvine had tried
to bustle him over the double
dissolution. “There is not a
scintilla of foundation for
any of the statements,”
pompously replied Joseph
Tripe. “Scintilla” is defined
by Webster as “a spark;
giimmer; gleam.” Cook
might have said with equal
dignity that there wasn’t a
flash of pedestal for the
rumor.
A lament from Freetrade England
published as recently as last Sunday:—
Social workers have discovered babies of three
and four years old linking up hooks and eyes in the
factories of Birmingham, and toddlers five years of
age making matchboxes, paper bags and artificial
flowers in London.
Child employment is rampant in the lace-finishing
industry in Nottingham.
In one instance specially mentioned, from Birming-
ham, a woman and her five children, aged from three
to 12, were working together carding hooks and eyes.
It was quite common for the children of poverty-
stricken families to commence work at six years olil.
“Barnacle”: Captain W. 11. Mason, Gov-
ernment Shipping Master at Sydney, is off
to England on a holiday. Formerly he was
skipper of the N.S.S. Sobraon, the old
hulk moored in Port Jackson, which for
years served as a training ship for refractory
hoys. When the N. S. Wales Government
traded the Sobraon off to the Australian
Government Mason lost his job, and the
shipping master’s billet being vacant, the
Ministry ran him into it. As tradition
requires that a master mariner should aet
as shipping master, Mason was called Cap-
tain, though his solitary command was the
ancient training hulk.
Britain’s inglorious climate is playing up
with Marshall Hall in these latter days.
Twenty years of so of life in Melbourne has
made him very susceptible to influenza and
things. He has had two attacks of ’flu’
this London winter, and the second one kept
him from discoursing on “Music in Aus-
tralia” at the Colonial Institute. If poor
old Marshall Hall could only be transported
back to Melbourne just now, his musical
soul would have a lot to say about ragtime
from a Wagnerian point of view. Ile’d
foam at the mouth. Probably the Prof.’s
ailments have been aggravated by the rag-
time-tango epidemic in the Smokopolis.
A LARGE FAMILY.
FIRST BRIDGE ENTUSIAST: “ How many children have you, Mrs. Gamble?”
SECOND DO. (absently): "Let me see, 16 above and 24 below. "
GENTLEMEN!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. H. McKenzie, M.L.A., has been visiting the
Kyabram portion of his electorate. At a pig sale
(our Kyabram correspondent reports) he met a
number of friends and constituents, and was con-
gratulated on his recovery. Before the sale Mr. McKenzie
mounted the fence, and stated that he wished to
contradict a rumor that he was retiring from public
life. —Melbourne Argus.
See, also, heading to The Bulletin’s “Political
Points.”
Gentlemen! a politician,
One who values his position,
Stands, with easy confidence,
Here before you on the fence.
For he knows full well, good friends,
All your aims and all your ends;
And that these you may attain
He will strive with might and main.
Gentlemen! my sole ambition
Is to see that your condition
Shall continue to improve;
Wherefore I shall shortly move
For a special grant to buy
Extra bedding for your sty—
Force it from the Government
For the folk I represent.
Gentlemen 1 You crave nutrition ;
And I hold my high position
By your will and by your votes.
Pollard you shall have, and oats!
And I know you’ll vote for me
In elections yet to be,
While I cater for your needs,
Promising yet further feeds.
Gentlemen! The Opposition,
By its frequent repetition
Of base lies would have you think
They’d increase your food and drink.
Friends, their secret aim, I know,
Is to cut your rations low,
And, while they but sneer and scoff,
It is we who fill your trough 1
Gentlemen! This talk of “Nation”
Is a vile abomination!
You are asked to sacrifice
Food and swill, and pay a price
For a shibboleth like that!
You are asked to give your fat
That your children, by-and-bye,
May possess a better sty!
Gentlemen! The aspiration
To build up a mighty nation
Is a question far too big
For an ordinary pig.
Truly, we don’t care a damn,
When we’re bacon, pork or ham,
What the fate of pigs may be.
Let ’em root the same as we!
Gentlemen 1 This tortured question
Gives you mental indigestion.
Such vague things you do not heed.
Food in plenty is your need.
In my place in Parliament
It is you I represent;
And I’ll face all vile affronts
For your sakes! ( Delighted grunts.)
Gentlemen! The proposition
For the honest politician
Is: “Can I secure more oats
For the folk who give me votes?
Can I fill their troughs, and give
Mush to them, that I may live?”
To that end he should employ
All his art. ( Loud squeals of joy.)
Gentlemen 1 A politician
With my knowledge and position
Knows full well that such as you
Take the plain, right-thinking view;
For himself each fatted pig,
And for all the rest —a fig!
Gentlemen, I greet your ranks,
And accept your grunt of thanks.
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Profit by the experience of others
and Deal Direct with “Paling’s.”
BY choosing: your piano or any other musical instrument from
PALING'S you save yourself endless worry in the future,
because every instrument we sell has been carefully selected
for its Durability and Brilliancy of Tone,
By paying cash and purchasing in large quantities we obtain
large concessions from the manufacturers. This enables us to
give such extraordinary value. We are sole agents for: —
0.
m
m
rtf
BECHSTEIN, RONISCH, LIPP*VICTOR PIANOS
Ronisch or Lipp-Claviola Player-Pianos.
A/so
?,-K
TT-f-ts* ' ; .‘ •■•,' V;;. • « .1 • <^ 0t - r .
It is our policy to demand THE BEST VALUE, and in turn
we make it a rule to give our customers in every part of
Australia THE BEST VALUE for THEIR outlay.
vc
338 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Newcastle,
Lismore,
Brisbane,
Toowoomba.
CATALOGUES of Pianos or
Combination Player=Pianos
are POST FREE.
Send for one to-day.
PLEASE MENTION which
instrument you are in-
terested in.
PALING’S EASY
TERMS
WILL HELP YOU.
.. ~ ■ • "
sS|ps«fe
' V®.-
*4£ ...
3/5*
, • 1
1
'
MS s•* :
-
m
MS.
ms
What we Guarantee
You if the Easter
Suit is Leviathan-made
piRST, a fabric of fine quality —a
choice New Season's Weave, war-
ranted to wear and keep its good
appearance.
Then a Cut that is full of style, and
tailoring that is careful and thorough.
In all, a Suit perfect —faultless fitting,
correct, fine in every detail
—Or All Your Money Back!
And all this at
L
6
the Suit
to Order
(Mail Order Special).
Send the Coupon To-day for Patterns.
LADIES’ COSTUMES
TO order, £5/5/-, £7/7/-, £lO/10/-
Patterns and Self-measurement
Forms Post Free on Request.
The Leviathan
Corner of Swanston
and Bourke Streets,
EVB E L BO U R N E.
Mail Orders
We Pay
Freight on
all Orders
to any address. Oar Catalogue,
Patterns, etc., are Post Free on
request. We guarantee satis-
faction or your money back.
THE LEVIATHAN,
c/o Swanston and Bourke Streets,
Melb.
Please send me a Pattern Selection
of your New Autumn-Winter Suitings
at 52/6. This request incurs no obli-
gation.
Name
Address
B’t’n 2G / 3/’l4.
y i
i ....
J
ZEISS GLASSES
Remain Unrivalled for
Mechanical and Optical
Perfection.
Before buying a Field Glass ask £0 see
The ZEISS TURACT
(Eight Magnifications).
It possesses all the very
latest improvements in
Optical construction.
Price, in Solid Leather case,
£8 15s.
Obtainable from
all leading Opti-
cians. Write for
Zeiss booklet
sent free on re-
quest.
bcv
Reputable Opti-
cians will not try
to substitute an-
other glass when
asked for Zeiss.


BRITISH ADMIRALTY.
The British Admiralty some time ago
approved of 0.T., and to-day this popular
drink is freely used on almost every ship in
the Navy.*
AN EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Laxo-Tonie Pills are a most effective remedy for
cleansing the blood, thus removing the cause of
pimples, blotches and other blemishes. Price, IOJd.
and Is.' Cd. Obtainable everywhere.*
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOGRLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
For the Country Horseman
The saddle here illustrated is expressly designed
for country use, for stock riding, etc., and is built
of the best materials throughout. If any of our
friends are requiring such a saddle they will find
Ibis a genuine bargain.
It has a hogsldn seat, a plated bar-tree, extra
long flaps, with points to buckle below. An economi-
cal feature is the skirt, .which extends all round
and thus adds years of wear to the saddle by pro-
tecting its interior from the weather. It has a
deep, “sweepy” seat, 4in. kneepads, nickel-plated
iron stirrups, and double buckle leather girth. The
price complete is £3/15/- Mention of Tub
Bulletin when ordering will ensure your having a
leather surcingle given in free, and the saddle will
be forwarded freight paid. It is to be obtained
from J. P. Talty, 3SS Sussex Street, Sydney.
STOMACH WORM EXPELLED.
AND HEALTH GENERALLY. IM-
PROVED AFTER A FEW DOSES
OF COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT”
WORM PELLETS.
That Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets are a safe and reliable remedy for
the eradication of worms is vouched for by
Mrs. J. O’Leary, of 111 Peel-street, Ballarat
East, Victoria, whose little daughter was
afflicted for some time. After a few doses,
a stomach worm several inches long was
expelled. Since then the child, who pre-
viously was always ailing, has gained con-
siderably in weight and is enjoying much
better health.
“A little daughter of mine, Julia,” writes
Mrs. J. O’Leary, “was suffering from
stomach worms, and I decided to try Com-
stock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets. My
daughter had been ailing for some time, and
was thin. After taking a few doses of the
pellets and Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, a
worm several inches long was expelled from
the bowels, which had the appearance of
being a stomach worm. She is still con-
tinuing the medicine and shows much im-
provement in health since adopting this
treatment. I have no objection to your using
these few lines for publication, seeing that
other children might he relieved from suffer-
ing.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 2s. 9d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
On December 25, 1913, it was suggested in
this column that there is no law in N. S. Wales to
prevent, the installation of a totalisator on a licensed
racecourse; Last week Joseph Carruthers, sometime
State Premier, whom this paper has occasionally
suspected of being more intelligent than he looks,
arrived at the same conclusion. The argument put
' forward by The Bulletin was that, on a licensed
racecourse, betting is legal. The Act does not
. specify how the betting shall be carried out, or with
'Whom bets shall be made; It merely legalises betting,
.Therefore the Tote system of betting must be legal.
'Carruthers arrives at the same conclusion by a slightly
different route. His argument is that the Tote is not
,a betting: machine, and neither gives nor takes odds.
;The Tote is merely a recording machine, an automatic
clerk, or an elaborate calculating implement. The
.betting is done between the people who back the
Various horses. They do it without having to come
together personally, because the concern, which is
partly a cash-box and partly an abacus or abacus
Pvthagoricus, acts as intermediary. It is in the same
category as a house agent or commission agent. It
cannot be illegal even if the law prohibits the use of
betting machines, because it is not a betting machine,
such as, for instance, a roulette instrument. Premier
Holman, who is anxious to get the Tote installed on
account of the revenue it will bring him, is so im-
pressed with the idea that the matter has been
referred to the Crown Law officers, and it begins to
look as though the Tote is going to have a big run
for its life in N.S.W.
It is said that there was a frightful scene
in the N.S.W. Government caucus on the question of
introducing a Bill to legalise the Totalisator. Some
of the members put forward some amazing reasons of
the “tainted money” type against the introduction of
the Bill. But the one that proved fatal was a pro-
posal that thd proceeds of a Tote tax should be ear-
marked for public charity. At this the Premier
kicked with both feet, and his supporters also put in
the verbal boot with great emphasis. “Tainted
money,” snorted one indignant member, “I guess the
Tote revenue won’t be half so tainted as the money
some of you have taken to oppose the motion.”
Fierce uproar happened. It died down after a while,
but started again when another member inquired
bitterly, looking at the ceiling over the heads of
some of his friends opposite: “Yes, how much are
(you getting for doing this?” Of course, the men sus-
.pected may have been quite uncorrupt, and have been
merely the tools of others who have been bribed —but
iit is up to some of them to avoid the appearance of
■evil. And it seems a strange thing that the only
| alleged tainted money objected to is that which would
come from the Tote. tax. The purists who objected to
.that made no effort to prevent income-tax being
.charged on the profits of people who are known to be
.living by prostitution and the letting of houses of
. illfame. The incongruity is too great.
; On April 4 the Adelaide Racing Club will
lyse a new machine known as the “Gaut and Ward
[ Totalisator.” Gaut and Ward are Sydney men, and
iUie invention has been fathered by the Australasian
• Totalisators Limited, a Sydney company. The machine
has been put to most exhaustive tests during the last.
; few months, and has emerged triumphantly from them"
> all. A feature is that the ladies’ ticket stalls are fully
[2ooyds. away from where the male punter invests liis
I “dough.” But they are linked up with the main
: machine, and the automatic recorders work perfectly.
At the S.A. Jockey Club’s Summer Meet-
ing on Saturday, San Juan, in the Welter Mile, yielded
up £l9 15s. as a Tote dividend. In the Forestville
Handicap, Understudy handed out £l4. In the
Somerton Handicap, Bective was worth £7 12s. to
the backers.
H. Gray, the M.L. jockey who steered
Wallalo to victory in the Australian Cup, was well
rewarded for his hurried trip from the Rocking Isles.
He was laid '£looo to nothing that he couldn’t win,
besides several other inducements to get first past the
post. As he also managed to pilot the fleet-footed
descendant of Carbine into first place in the valuable
Essendon Stakes, the M.L. boy must have raked in
a tiny mountain of cash as the result of his brief
visit to Australia.
* * * *
A great struggle is going on just now
between the leading M.L. horse pilots for premier
position this season. The four leading riders so far
arc R.: Berry, 39 wins ; B. Deeley, 34 wins ; H. Gray,
31 wing; and W. Bell. 30 wins. It looks as if it’s
roirg to be a neck-and-neck scramble; but Deeley,
who pilots for that mighty racer, George Clifford,
will probably be astride the best horseflesh, and
should therefore have the best chance.
It’s not often that anyone puts money on
a prad at the lengthy odds of 2000 to 1 and col-
lects the cash ; but this happened in Fogland when a
horse called Form showed a field of seven the wav
home in the Four-Year-Old Selling Hurdle Race at
Hurst Park early in January. The winner had
belied his name to such an extent that a disgusted
bookmaker named Johnny Haynes offered to lay
£lOO to a bob about him ; and the owner of the
misnamed moke took the bet. To the surprise of
everyone, the horse flew home, and the booky paid out.
The frequency of falls at the Rosehill Race-
course, near Parramatta (N.S.W.), on Saturday last
makes one take thinking exercise. Three horses went
down in the Hurdle Race, one in the Carlingford
Mile and eight in the Rosehill Cup. The latter was
a very bad smash, and resulted in Olive Green, the
mare, having all four legs fractured. There was
nothing for it but to fire a cannon at the unhappy
animal and send her to Heaven. W. 11. Smith, the
rider of’Aurofodina, was desperately injured. In addi-
tion to shock, all the ribs on one side were stove in,
some of them being broken in two places, and the
jagged ends tore his lungs and lacerated his liver.
At time of writing his condition is considered pre-
carious, and it well might be. The frequency of falls
suggests that the course, which was saturated by the
heavy downpour on Friday night, was not fit to be
raced on. It is a slippery place in wet weather; and
the club carries a heavy moral responsibility for
allowing the meeting to take place under the circum-
stances. Of course, a postponement would have
meant much denunciation on the parts of the owners
and some of the gentry who carry the bag—but
better that than the thing which happened.
The real contests for this year’s billiard
championship—although no title or match money be
involved —will be when Reece comes to Australia
presently and plays a series of games with Fred
Lindrum. Lindrum, who has been lying low of late,
is said to have improved his game, and between the
styles of him and Reece there is not a point of
attractiveness to choose. They are both excellent.
* * * *
Something of a sensation was occasioned
when Norman IT. Murray resigned the position of
Commodore of the Royal Prince Alfred Yacht Club
(Sydney) last week. He has been a flag officer for
years and years and years. It is generally under-
stood that the resignation is the outcome of the rejec-
tion of his proposal to establish a one-class, one-
design type of yacht for Sydney Harbor. At consider-
able expense and a lot of trouble he secured from
the well-known yacht architect, Fife, complete plans
for an eight-metre yacht; and offered them to the
club. That creature rejected his scheme and his
plans, mainly on the ground of expense, and adopted
the Tasmanian one-class, one-design type of boat. So
Murray handed in his papers.
The winners of the Oxford-Cambridge
boat race, due on the 28th, will have to consider a
challenge from the rowing crew of the Sorbonne.
The Frenchmen are willing to meet the English
University crew on the Thames course.
There seems to be no earthly reason to
waste a year to get a taste of life in the Antarctic
or the Arctic. All that is necessary is to get on
board a trusty aeroplane and climb 15,000 feet
towards Heaven. A fellow who recently did it in
England found the temperature 38° below zero.
His petrol froze, his face was frost bitten, his eyes
turned black, and his plane became a mass of ice.
Then the engine stopped and he started back to earth
at an awful bump. But he kept a cool head, which
was easy in such circumstances, and when he got
clear of the upper strata his planes responded to the
levers, and he volplaned down to safety with his
effects still thick upon him. Then he started for
hospital. It is only a question of time till some
cloud scaler crashes down 25,000 ft. on to a train,
or through the roof of a pub, or collides with a
parson driving to church. Then there will be a row
if it is ever decided what it was that fell from
Heaven. By the way, a recent magazine story dealt
with the case of a flier who came down from a vast
height with his head bitten off. The event moved
another man to investigate 30,000 ft. up. He didn’t
come down at all, but he dropped his notebook, in
which he stated that flabby air animals with beaks
were all round him, and had been shepherding him
for hours. TTe wrote that it was a horrible, horrible,
horrible way to die.
Malt Wells and Tom McCormick do a little
billygoating at Sydney Stadium.
The commencement of Sydney’s 12th round
of First-Grade Cricket was a very sodden business
which spelt disaster for batsmen. Just consider some
of the bowling figures. Toby, of Sydney, smashed
seven Petersham batsmen for 17 runs. Macartney,
Gordon’s cherub, took six Waverley sticks for seven
runs. Norman, of Balmain, bagged six Middle Har-
borites for 20. Shepherd, of Waverley, blew out five
Gordonites for 35. Massie, of University, slew five
Redfernites for 48. At batting Redfern was easily
best, with 180 and three University wickets for 31.
Next came Paddington with 172 and no North Sydney
wickets for two runs. Western Suburbs accumulated
128 for the loss of five wickets off Glebe. Gordon
dismissed Waverley for 67, and then accomplished 70
for the loss of eight men. Balmain outed Middle
Harbor for 81, and battered 109 on the board for
eight wickets. Sydney blotted out Petersham for 54
and then smote 81 for three. The highest individual
score was the 55 of Pratten, of Western Suburbs.
Coffey, of Sydney, was next with 50; and Ward
Prentice, of Western Suburbs, with 44, third. But in
spite of the Noah’s Ark conditions there were only
14 ducks abroad during the afternoon, although the
number of men who never got past single figures was
legion.
* * * *
Harry Hilliard, the oldest Australian
representative cricketer, was last week bowled by
Father Time after a well-spent innings of 87 years.
The dead veteran had a place in the first inter-State
match between N.S.W. and Victoria 57 years ago.
Almost to the end Hilliard was an ardent cricketer,
and he regarded it as a severe misfortune if he missed
a single inter-State game.
*•***.
This scribe hates to heave bricks at the
N.S.W. Cricket Association, but when it starts to
butt its head against the Australian Compulsory
Training scheme he rises to kick it right on the
chin. The executive deplores the inroads the Defence
movement is making into cricket on Saturday after-
noons. Also, the executive has taken steps to place
the matter before the Defence authorities. Now let
us get to the root of the matter. If Australia has to
choose between Cricket and Defence, then Cricket must
go overboard without time to say its prayers. We
depend upon rifles, and not bats and balls, to keep
out invading rifles. Chasing inflated horse-hide and
smiting a leather sphere do not train boys how to
defend the honor of their mothers and sisters against
people armed with guns ; and the Cricket Association
makes an infernal and unpatriotic donkey of itself
by protesting against Defence training because it
interferes with a mere game. One doesn’t want to get
bitter, so some nasty things that might be said will
be left unwritten.
* * * *
During a lull in the Sydney rain deluge
on Saturday N.S.W. bowls pennant finals struggled
through on heavy greens. In the “A” grade Chats-
wood wiped the mud with City by 90 points to 83, in
spite of the fact that City threatened to make a
runaway win, and led by 21 to 12 and 38 to 29 in
the first half-hour. Chatswood pulled itself together,
took off its shirt, tightened its belt, moistened its
hands, and tramped right over City in three rinks out
of four. In the “B” section Parramatta put Dubbo
through the sausage-machine by 82 to 57, winning in
two rinks out of three. And therewith the Summer
Competition fell in the mud and expired, and left the
greens clear for the enthusiasts who struggle on the
cold days to the cheers of rheumatism, lumbago and
sub-acute arthritis.
* * * *
Cecil McVilly made small spuds of Fred
Coverdale in the Tasmanian amateur sculling cham-
pionship on the Derwent, on Saturday. The tussle
was important, as Coverdale holds the Australian ama-
teur championship, while McVilly, as holder of the
English Diamond Sculls, probably considers himself
something akin to a world’s record. Mac’s success
probably indicates that he will be the next Australian
amateur champion.
* * * *
James Clabby, who was to have been in
Sydney in time to box Jeff Smith on Easter Monday,
has cabled that he missed the boat, and will not
leave the United States of George Washington till
April 7. So Stadium-manager Keesing has fixed up
anew campaign, and at the end of it there will be
a Middleweight Championship of the World battle
between the man who gets the best of the campaign
and Clabby when he does arrive. On April 11 Dave
Smith will have a chance to redeem his pennon from
McGoorty, at list. 61b. at 2 p.m. in the afternoon
of the fight. On April 13 (Easter Monday night)
Pat Bradley will engage Jeff Smith at list. 41b. Then
the winners of these two battles will meet on a date
to be fixed, and the conqueror will fall on Clabby,
and knock saucepans out of him immediately he can
get fit after his arrival here. Dave Smith declares
that when he saw the serap Bradley put up against
McGoorty (Smith had previously beaten Bradley) he
felt an indignation with himself that made it unsafe
for him to look into a street mirror. And then when
he considered the showing of Jeff Smith —well, he
felt the last trace and shadow of the Indian Sign fade
right out. It sounds all very well, yet, somehow,
writer thinks it had been better to have matched
Dave Smith with Jeff of that ilk. But, of course,
David was anxious—most anxious to meet Eddie
McGoorty. Bradley and Jeff Smith are about as per-
fect a match as could be made. They should put up
a scrap worth going a long way to see.
Georges Carpentier, the French champion
boxer, struck trouble when he met the Afro-American
Joe Jeanette at Paris recently. Asa boxer Carpentier
seems to tower over Jeanette, and he hit the black
on the jaw as often as he liked, but failed to hurt
him. He knocked the black right off his feet in the
first round with a straight left to the jaw, but Joseph
arose as though nothing had happened. In the eighth
Carpentier had Jeanette all but out, but the gong
saved the negro. Apparently that was Carpentier’s
final effort, and the unwinding of it had burst his
boiler. For the next seven rounds he got weaker, and
Jeanette’s greater weight told increasingly as the
rounds went on. The fight came to an end in the
15th round, and the referee gave Jeanette the ver-
dict. “Snowy” Baker, who was present, cables that
the decision was putrid.
* * * *
The absurdity of a boxer “making
weight” was in evidence again at Brisbane on Satur-
day night. We saw a very bad exhibition of the
evil effects of it in the Sydney Stadium, when Herbert
McCoy beat Mat Wells. Wells had to waste
to reduce himself to the specified poundage,
with the result that he was too weak to
fight properly after 10 hurried rounds.
Morey, the Westralian, had to do the
same thing to get down to the weight
limit to meet Frank Thorn at Brisbane.
Same result—he went weak, and practi-
cally lost 15 out of 20 rounds.
The fight at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night saw Lee Johnson, the colored featherweight
of Tahmmy Burns’s kennel, up against Australian
Charlie Simpson. It was a fast and furious battle, in
which Johnson utilised the ropes in a remarkable
manner. He would fall right against them, and as
he did so poke out his left towards the Victorian’s
jaw, and then the rebound of the ropes \#>uld send
him in (woosh !). But Simpson was clever, and he
worried our Timbuctoo brother badly. He hunted
him as a terrier hunts -a rat, but the trouble was
that when he caught his unresisting victim, the un-
resisting victim raised Cain. He suggested a Quaker
gone baresark. At the end of a fast fight referee
Marre could not see what the* difference was, and
wisely declared it a draw. The public agreed, which
was the only bad feature in the business. The public
ought to be prohibited from agreeing.
* * * *
When Matthew Wells, of Old Jewry,
passed into the welterweight division, he. requested
to be allowed to bash Tom McCormick, who had
wrested the championship of the British Empire from
the hard-fighting and prayerful Johnny Summers.
McCormick, or somebody on his behalf, replied scorn-
fully that Wells had better first prove himself able
to fight a welterweight. Wells took it quietlj', and
put it all over Ray Bronson, and then came forward
and reiterated his request. So they met last Satur-
day night at Sydney Stadium; and, in spite of-the
deluge, the huge place was comfortably packed to
see what everybody knew would be a stirring scrap.
For Mac, when he does fight, fights with all his heart
and soul, both fists, and his brain. The first two
rounds quickly convinced McCormick that at long-
range fighting he was no match for the polished
Hebrew glove artist; so he abandoned long range
for close work. He crowded in on Wells like a rail-
way collision. Wells, who didn’t want to be tele-
scoped, blew across the ring like a fleeting shadow,
trying to get room to swing, and McCormick leaped,
bounded and flapped after him. Wells turned and
drove a left of some importance into McCormick’s
face. Mac reeled, but as he did he smote three times
with both hands, and slogged occasionally with the
right; and then he got hold of Wells, who tugged to
get away. It was a mad scene, in which blows flew
so fast they could not be seen. But they could be
heard, and also the grunt with which McCormick let
them fly. A voice said from the back: “This is A
FIGHT!” Determined to accomplish a victor}' with
the same short-arm jolt that had proved so disastrous
to Johnny Summers, McCormick bored in all the time.
But he had no hope. The quick-brained Hebrew anti-
cipated him every time. He knew exactly what
McCormick was after, and knew how to prevent him
getting it. They went round and round the ring
together, bent down, head to head, each smiting,
guarding, smashing, looking for a chance for a knock-
out—a chance which never came. The first five rounds
were fought at a terrific pace, which, had it been
maintained, meant they would both drop dead inside
16 rounds. But in the sixth Wells commenced to
slow down. Many thought his strength was begin-
ning to go, and that McCormick would wear him
right out, and then do a great act of obliteration.
McCormick looked as if he had already selected the
house he would buy with the prize-money. This head-
to-head fighting was interesting to those who could
see it, but it was so close only those in the near seats
saw anything, and at the back the crowd howled to
the new referee to “break the cows!” Still, there
was a good deal of wrestling, which detracted from
the spectacular effect; although it was wild and fierce
enough to satisfy any glutton. During the fight there
was a terrific downpour of rain, accompanied by
flashes of lightning that filled the Stadium with a
blue glare. The roaring of the crowd, the crash of the
rain on the roof, and the booming of the thunder
made pandemonium. The fighters became hasty, dis-
ordered and inconsiderate. Sometimes they were even
previous. Harold Baker had to tear them apart, and
immediately he ripped one off the other they mixed
again in a malignant fashion. Up to the 12th round
it had been a fairly level riot, but in the 13th Wells
began to attack with systematic fury. He kept out
of clinches when he could, and smote McCormick with
all the books of the major and .minor prophets. He
had slowed down a lot, and was fighting far more
scientiflcially than Mac, whose one desire seemed to be
to catch him; but when he did catch the Hebrew he
could do nothing with him. Wells was obviously sav-
ing himself for a final blizzard. The 18th found
McCormick on top of the elusive Jew in bulldog
fashion. In close fighting he rained showers of
short, righthand slaps on to Wells’s neck and cheek ;
but they apparently produced no effect, except that
One of Wells’s ears began to swell like a balloon.
McCormick’s nose was cut, and both were bleeding
slightly from the mouth. But although McCormick
was always on top, it was Wells who scored in the
break-away. In the 19tli Wells unfolded his blizzard.
He bashed with the right and followed it up with
the left; and, driving McCormick across the ring
with a regular bombardment, landed twice with the
left and once with the right. McCormick tried to get
hold of him, to force him into some desirable posi-
tion, but Wells poured him off and handed him
several more that Mac could easily have done without.
Then came the 20th. The wallops that Matthew
let fly were fearful to see. He climbed over McCor-
mick and made him look a regular novice. He smote
till he seemed almost as numerous as the Public Debt.
McCormick was in no danger of a knock-out, but he
was getting a considerable depreciation, and a lot
was being written off for wear and tear. When
the gong went the sombre-looking Harold Baker placed
his hand on the head of Wells, and the thunders of
applause drowned the storm.
It has been described as an uninteresting fight.
Writer found it wildly exciting, and the way Wells
guarded his jaw in the close battling was wonderful.
The more one sees this shaggy Hebrew fight, the
greater becomes the admiration for his cleverness.
He has now quite abandoned the galloping style of Par-
thian conflict that he showed against Hughie Mehe-
gan. He goes right in with all the delight of a
vainglorious chicken charging a mud puddle. He
hits a harder blow than McCormick, whose fighting
is spoilt by his over eagerness. Mae was not satisfied
with the verdict, and his manager felt he had been
outraged or disembowelled or something. So there
is going to be another scrap between them, and it
should draw a vast house. Meanwhile, Matthew Wells
is welterweight champion of the British Empire.
“Famous Fights at the Stadium.” This
is the title of a bright, breezy history of the great
glove battles at Sydney Stadium from the Burns-
Squires battle till the Eddie McGoorty-Jeff Smith dis-
turbance. Told by C. A. Jeffries, and reprinted from
the Sporting Page of The Bulletin. Chock-full of
portraits of ring celebrities, including some of the
old-time giants, such as Peter Jackson, “Griffo” and
Bob Fitzsimmons. Good terms to booksellers. To be
retailed at One Shilling. Order from The Platypus
Press, 117 Bathurst Street, Sydney.*
Violence is so cheap that it is a wonder
more people don’t go in for it instead of
hockey, football and so forth. A market
gardener, of Elsternwick (Vic.), lately de-
cided that his missus needed a little correc-
tion. He offered her a cup of whisky, of
which she drank a little to please him. Then,
because she would not swallow the lot, he
started his performance, the programme be-
ing as follows: (1) He called her foul names
and struck her on the side of the head.
(Just here the cup was returned at high
speed, but unfortunately missed.) (2) He
struck her several times on face and head.
(3) She ran out of the house, and he hit
her and knocked her down. (4) She got up
and ran—he knocked her clean off her feet.
(5) While she lay on the footpath, he
kicked her on the breast and body. The
Law’s price for that generous allowance of
language, stoush and boot was a mere £5.
And a little more boot (say an extra ss.
worth) might have resulted in a dead wife
and a hanging. Either murder should be
made cheaper, or else the Jaypee should be
forced to revise his trade price-list. At
present the discrepancy is too great.


WHY DON’T YOC LEARN
TO USE YOUR HANDS?
b
You fully realise the importance of know-
ing how to defend yourself. Because self-
preservation is part and parcel of every form
of life.
You ought to do something to develop your
natural power. Why not learn to box —learn
to use your hands to the best advantage ?
Otherwise the time will surely come when
you will bitterly repent your indecision.
Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then —you’ll wish in vain.
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how
to box. I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST.
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable
moves known to Ringcraft. The best moves
of the most famous living boxers will form
part of your instruction. If you were
entangled in a mix-up, what a big advantage
you’d have —what confidence you’d have, and
that’s half the battle. Here is a letter from
one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with
my boxing. I am beginning to feel sure
of myself. It is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Niinbin, N.S.W.
See how he’s building up confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” too.
Write for my 32-page booklet, “Scientific lioxing in Your Home,” which describes my methods, and
gives cost of tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy") BAKER,
272 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
If You Prefer a
liMf Virginia
Cigarette
You’ll get nothing to equal
Actual Size.
AUTUMN
GOLD
which are admittedly the
finest Virginia Cigarettes
made.
They are manufactured by
W. D. and H. O. Wills, of
Bristol, England, from the
very finest of specially se-
lected Virginia leaves.
Put up in hermetically-
sealed vacuum tins, which
keep them in perfect condi-
tion. •
Plain or 22ct. Gold-tipped,
4/- per tin of 50, or 75/-
per 1000.
Postage extra: 100, N.S.W.,
6d.; Inter-State, Bd.
Write for a free copy of my
Catalog, “A Discriminating
Smoker’s Guide.”
A. M. SOLOMON,
“ CIGAR EXPERT,”
173 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne to Adelaide
riotor Record
Broken
by
Murray Aunger, Esq.,
by 5 hours 11 minutes,
using
“SHELL”
BENZINE
Freedom, Ease & Comfort
WELMAR
Shirt
Pat. 1274
24/5/’ll.
Stocked by
Leading
Mercers and
Outfitters.
Manufactured by
Welch, Margetson 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.
cv
Krupp’s Mills
WILL MEET ALL REQUIREMENTS.
WET and DRY
GRINDING.
Send us your Crushing Problems and we
will tender solutions .
NOYES Bros.
(Melbourne) Pty. Ltd.
(Sydney) Ltd.
499 Bourke Street. 115 Clarence Street
STEELE & BAKER, Adelaide Agents.
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce.
SALES held at frequent
intervals by
AM.IsF.CO.
-LIMITED
4 BLIGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
WEAR RKaNEY SHOES!
bc
You get the best style, the best leathers, the
best workmanship, and a perfect fit in The-
Rigney Shoe.
In all shapes, styles and sizes.
The illustration is a Tan, Willow Calf,
Three Button Shoe. Smart American
Shape, Brown Cloth Insertion Tops. Non-
Tread-Over Brand. Best English Manu-
facture.
Price - - 32/0
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 357-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Catalog.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
m
X
M
I
■
i 'v
Ask ihe
Owner-Driver
ir l
dUnedp
TYRES!
His answer can be expressed in one word —
ECONOMY
That’s what “DUNLOP” Quality and
Strength means to Motorists —more
miles and less trouble—and they are
results that all Motorists can have
by fitting “Dunlops”
They will cost you no more,
but you get more in return.
TRY one Of the LATEST “DUNLOPS” and TEST the MILEAGE.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
From an old hand on the bridge:—
Some feeble protests have been made against the
flicker ads. that blaze out round Sydney Harbor, but
I am surprised there hasn’t been something more
decided and emphatic from brother-skippers. The
ferry-men who live with these lights, may get used
to them; but the inter-Stater, who makes Sydney
every two or three weeks, finds them absolutely dan-
gerous. It’s not so much that they get mixed up
with the ordinarv guiding lights, and they sometimes
do that. It’s the impossibility of ignoring them
that gives us the great trouble. The eye of the
sailor is involuntarily attracted to a moving light;
that is why occulting lights are so much better than
fixed ones for nautical marking. In Sydney Harbor
a shipmaster needs to have his eyes at his full dis-
posal all the time —not to have them dragged con-
stantly aside by a flaring ad. when .lie should be
watching for a crowded ferry boat dashing out from
the Quay. These .things bring Sydney’s big ferry
smash very much nearer; and you get a hint every
few weeks that it’s pretty near already.
From London: —
More and more do we find persons of unimpeach-
able birth plunging into the sordid morasses of trade.
According to a local sheet the Marquis of London-
derry sells coal; Lord Raleigh’s dairies are famous ;
scores of peeresses and their daughters run hat shops ;
the Duke of Mficklenberg-Schwerin is a “motor
agent,” as also is King Peter of Servia. The King
is the Belgrade rep. of a leading French automobile
firm. He also owns the leading barber’s saloon
and drug store of Belgrade. The Kaiser is the proprie-
tor of a restaurant at Potsdam, and one of his sub-
sidiary monarchs, King William of Wurtemberg,
owns a couple of hotels, one in Stuttgart and the
other in the Black Forest. It is still impossible, I
understand, to get shaved by a king, or be served
with soup by an emperor, but these joys will doubt-
less come when the money-hunger gets a little more
violent in royal circles. It is already the simplest
thing in the world to be cheated at cards by a duke
or even a prince.


First Friend: “Fve
heard a lot about Pebeco
Tooth Paste. Just how
does it differ from other
dentifrices ? ”
Second Friend: “I can
tell you. Pebeco Tooth
Paste will do everytliiug the
best oidinary dentifrice will
do—and THEN SOME.
“It cleans, polishes,
and whitens teeth beauti-
fully. But that’s not
all. Pebeco Tooth Paste
protects the teeth from
mouth-acids — -the princi-
pal cause of tooth decay.
See the difference ? It
neutralizes acid-mouth.”
peace 6
TOOTH PASTE
Pebeco Tooth Paste takes the
one big stop forward in the
modern scientific care of the
teeth. It corrects the cause of
tooth decay. This means long
life for the teeth —real tooth
protection.
A sample of “ Pebeco” and an
interesting test, by which you
may prove its value, sent FREE.
Of all Chemists.
Large tubes, 1/6 ; Small, 1/-
G. ARNOLD,
ft O’Connell Street, Sydney*
(Wholesale only.)
©
Smooth, Velvety Skins
Result from the Use of
“Cazimi” Cream.
4/6 per Jar,
An efficacious Emollient, prepared and
packed in Russia. Possesses marvel-
lous healing and rejuvenating properties,
clears the skin, removes freckles, and
engenders the glow of health.
Cazimi Soap 1/6 Tablet
Cazimi Powder .... 1/6, 3/6 Box
From all Chemists, Stores or Toilet Parlors,
Wholesale Depot:
526 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE TRAVELLING RUG
PAR EXCELLENCE.
“JT 0 S G I E L”
RUGS.
Entirely made from
High-grade Wool.
Handsome in ... .
Appearance and
Luxuriously Comfortable.
Obtairia b I e
:t all tha
Best Shops.
[2
OCEANMORE,
' Bondi,
Sydney.
OPPOSITE SWIMMING BATHS.
A delightful sojourn for the holiday seeker,
’mid sparkling seas, foamy surf and mighty
crags. Twenty minutes from city. Terms,
from 55/- weekly. ’Phone 669, Waverley.
(Mrs.j T. G. PHILLIPS.
WAVERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE s
T^^^--aßasS!
c —THIS LOXK
Vrivp, W
u
p
S
Are Your Takings Insured Against Loss?
EVERY business man insures his stock and his premises
against fire —why ? Not because he thinks his place
will be burnt down, but because it migHt. It
is because of this ever-present possibility of loss that he
considers it worth paying a big premium each year to
feel safe. Yet, statistics show that only three shop-
keepers in 1000 sustain loss through fire.
Your money is more important than your stock,
because yon sell your stock to get money— to make
Profit. Why, then, do yon throw your money into a
drawer, uncounted and unprotected, when it is subject to
mistakes, carelessness, etc., that burn up your profits and
lose your money ?
You are probably more than paying the premium for
an up-to-date National Cash Register which will insure
your money —stop mistakes and losses and make your
assistants more careful. If these claims are true they
certainly mean money to you, you will admit. AsK \is
to prove them.
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Head Office —ll9 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
50 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
343 Queen Street, Brisbane.
339 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
80 Collins Street, Hobart.
117 a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
57 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
Paul’s Chambers, Bolton Street, Newcastle.
IN JUST TWO SECONDS AND TWO-FIFTHS
—the Ross Rifle planted five shots inside a strip 5 inches by 4
ft. 6 in. The Ross action is the speediest and safest made.
Your next hunting trip will be helped by a Ross High Velocity
Rifle and Ross .280 Sporting Cartridge. They not only give lowest
possible trajectory, practically doing away with the judging of
distance, but the patented copper tube expanding bullet will anchor
any game it fairly hits. The speed of the action is assurance of a
second or third shot in case of the first not hitting.
If your dealer cannot supply you, write for illustrated catalogue and full information to
Ross Rifle Co., - Quebec, Canada. i°-i 3 -a
SCHUTE, BELL, & Co, Ltd.,
, - SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments.'. Why not give them a trial
OFFICES: 44 BRIDGE STREET,.SYDNEY.
* &
\V\A ** x
W's?'--
SI
¥
Phosferine
This is the greatest of all Tonics
—a proven remedy for Nervous Debil-
ity, Influenza, Indigestion, Sleepless-
ness, Exhaustion, Neuralgia, Mater-
nity Weakness, Premature Decaj r , Men-
tal Exhaustion, Loss of Appetite,
Lassitude, Neuritis, Faintness, Brain-
Fag, Anaemia, Backache, Rheumatism,
Headache, Hysteria, Sciatica and dis-
orders consequent upon a reduced
state of, the riervou§ System.
Beware of imitations 1 The Genu-
ine Phosferine is in a huff package,
labelled ASHtON & PARSONS, LTD.,
LONDON.
Can be obtained at all Chemists.
The Royal
Tonic —
The Tonic
of Kings!
PHOSFERI
»«»\V*vwi4w« 0»W«U
’*'*—eras:
rtAli M>
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Wallaby”. When I chided “Mil” for overdraw-
ing (B. 6/11 /’l3) the prospects of the Torres Syn-
dicate in its pearling and trepanging venture 1
wasn’t far wrong. The syndicate chartered the small
steamer Waihoi, and after fooling round for an age
or so set off on the mystery cruise for lame and
fortune. It returned with neither. Since then the
boat has been laid up in Darwin, and the skipper
and engineer are returning to Sydney to battle for
the recovery of their salaries. Yet hundreds of
Malays and such like are making good money at the
game with pearlshell, trepang, etc. The aforemen-
tioned skipper tells me he has hopes of getting a Sydney
syndicate with coin behind it to send him back, as
lie is convinced that, if properly managed, the
bottom of the Northern seas still offers a tidy little
fortune for those hardy enough to hang on and dig
for it. #
St. Mary’s, C.E., North Melbourne, is building eight
workmen’s" cottages next door to itself on a block of land
which it owns. North Melbourne is a working man’s
suburb, so the spec, should pay, just as offices, stores,
etc., pay around St. James’ C.E. in Melbourne city. It
is a wondrous soft proposition when one comes to eye
it carefully. The State provides the land ; the State
Savings Bank will find the money; and practically
all the Church has to do is to sit down and draw
the profits. It is even easier and more lucrative
than passing round the plate.
* * * *
The Bulletin’s old friend, “Bleeds” Fitchett, of
Life newspaper, has launched out at as a sort of agent
for the Standard Oil Trust. He is booming in his
journal the Red Cross Paraffin Co., which supplies
an infallible cure —the usual old infallible cure —for
internal disorders. Says Fitchett artlessly: “As a
matter of general interest, the publisher of Life will
be glad to learn of the experience of any reader
who tries the new paraffin treatment.” Presumably
the idea is to lure out of some unsuspecting absorber
of the mixture revolting details as to his or her
disorders prior to the taking of the cure, together
with descriptions of the way the thing operated.
Then, as like as not, Mr. Fitchett will incorporate
all such disclosures in a hook entitled “Oils that
Saved the Empire’s Inside,” and draw a stupendous
profit therefrom. As he is selling his oil at 2s. 6d.
and 4s. 6d. per bottle, he should make a very fair
fortune before the material for his book is collected.
A sound business man is Bleeds.
* * * *
An apparently successful trial has been given, out-
side Adelaide, to a fire-cart, for discouraging mallee
shoots and such things, that spring up in
lately cleared ground, and make a mess of crop
and reapers if left. The fire is'on a grating, and
as it is driven along strong revolving fans drive the
flames downwards, and anything on the ground gets
the experience of being struck by lightning. The
inventor claims that the blasted things will never
grow again. Any use for prickly-pear ?
The Vic. Government lately sent three depart-
mental officers to the Western District to look at
18,000 acres of well-grown red-gum. The timber lies
along the Glenelg river above Horsham, and is worth,
at present prices, about £200,000. It appears that
certain philanthropic persons have spoken softly to
certain Ministers, and that there is a possibility of
the block being thrown open for selection. As the
land, sold in that fashion, would bring the State
less than £20,000, the fact that the Government
considered the application for one instant longer than
it would take to kick the applicants into the street,
looks like prima facie evidence of senile decay or
fatty degeneration of the brain on the part of those
responsible. There is one other possible explanation,
of course, but it is the sort of thing that a kindly,
well-disposed journal hates to mention.
* * » *
“Kink”: With my ticket in Tatt.’s sweep on the
Hobart Cup I received a programme of 22 events
or gambles for this year. Some of these are sub-
scribed four and six times over, and the 10s. 4d.
sweep brings to the promoters £50,000. At the
lowest computation the post office thus handles per
annum £575,000, devoted to a purpose which its
own laws and regulations declare to be illegal.
Ten per cent, of that— i.e., £57,600 —goes to the
promoters, £28,750 is seized by the Tasmanian
Government as a tax, and the remainder is divided
among the prizewinners. All the Commonwealth gets
out of it comes by the sale of a few thousand pennv
stamps. Why should the Australian Government not
take the business over and grab that £57,500 profit?
! It would make a very respectable endowment for the
pprt Augusta-Port Darwin railway.
A STATESMANLIKE POLICY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The debt of the Ma State is officially returned at
£110,000,000 odd. Holman cheerfully estimates a
coming annual loan expenditure of between
£8.000,000 and £9,000,000. „ . ,
The interest bill of the Ma State is about
£4,000,000 per annum. .
Mr. Cook, Prime Minister, says (or implies) that
the Commonwealth is going to have a D— tight
year of it in finance. He “doesn’t know where the
money is to come from.” The “great dailies advise
Mr. Cook to borrow.
The total Public Debt of Australia is very nearly
£300,000,000. . , , .
The population of Australia, counting in babies,
deadbeats, old-age pensioners, niggers, lunatics,
criminals and Wowsers, is estimated at 4,818.000.
—News items compiled by ME.
When a State, or a nation, gets into a hole through
the shameful neglect of its leaders —
When the system of bribing by public dole finds
frequent and eloquent pleaders—
When journals that boast of their conscience and
soul make frenzied appeals to their readers,
To rush to the Jew
With a fresh I O U,
And add to their interest-breeders ;
The question arises—or else it falls flat —
What’s the best thing to do with a crowd like thati
When a poor little populace, wilfully blind and cal-
lously deaf to all warning,
Goes hugging itself as the best of its kind all
“foreigners” loftily scorning—
And, utterly careless of what it has signed, hopes
there won’t be a bill in the morning;
Or, if by bad luck,
For the cash it gets struck,
Trusts the Three Balls will still be adorning
The same glad old entrance, and same joyous mat —
What’s the best thing to do with a people like that?
When the only expedient that’s known to the State,
or the nation, or people, or party—■
Their shield and their buckler against hostile Fate ;
their charm against Nick and Astarte —
Their art and their passion, absorbing and great as
the passion for bridge and ecarte —
Is to raise a new loan
From some Hebrews unknown
With noses enormous and warty—
One can only inquire as he takes off his hat:
What’s the best thing to do with a party like that?
Yet there’s one consolation remaining; we choose in
rotation the persons who borrow
Year in and year out from the Lombard Street Jews,
anl ] — y OU m ay be that person to-morrow !
The method is simple; just mention your views of
finance, and say ’tis with sorrow
You note the amount
To our debit account
Is paltry ; we really should BORROW !!!••••
Pooh-pooh all the dead-and-gone boomsters who’ve
gat,
And ask. “What’s the use of a small loan like that?
K.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


The Guarantee
of Excellence
on Goods
Electrical.
vb
cv
General Electric
Co. (U.S.A.)
Switchboards
for large or
small circuits —
Alternating or
Direct Current.
YOU CAN SEE QUALITY I N
every feature of this Switchboard—but the quality extends farther than any picture can show, for
General Electric Co. (U.S.A.) Switchboards
eliminate repair expense and produce high-grade service.
Materials and workmanship are the best obtainable, and every part of the Switchboard is inspected and tested before shipment.
Facts relating to a Switchboard of quality, designed especially for your conditions, will be furnished on request.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.,
217 Clarence Street, SYDNEY. Corner Queen and Little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
Agents
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., ‘‘Mazda House," Hay Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
BRISBANE, Q.—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), Edward Street.
NEW ZEALAND—The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd., Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington.
A.E.G. TURBO-GENERATORS
1911. 1912. 1913.
Works Output in kw. ... 294,017 ... 489,942 ... 559,908
The Largest Units supplied in 1913 were one 20,000, three 15,500 and four 11,500 Kva. each.
The First Unit exceeds the total capacity of the Sydney Municipal Council's Plant at
Pyrmont by nearly 3000 Kw.
WRITE FOR TURBO CATALOGUE, No. 314.
AUSTRALIAN METAL COMPANY LTD.
SYDNEY: 40-42 Clarence Street. MELBOURNE: 172-6 William Street. ADELAIDE : Gilbert Place.
• ft *
• • •
We are SOLE AGENTS for
Brown, Boveri Co. Ltd.
T. ■- :
brown, Boveri-Parsons Impulse-reaction Turbine of 28,000 h.p.
1000 r.p.m., for direct coupling to a three-phase alternator
of 21,000 k.v.Q
LEADING SPECIALITIES
Live Steam, Mixed Pressure and Exhaust Steam Turbines.
Turbo-Dynamos and Turbo-Alternators, in the largest sizes
and for any pressure.
Single and Polyphase Transformers, and Switchgear for any
output, and for pressures up to 60,000 volts.
Hydro-Electric Generators, Long Distance Power Transmission
and Railway work.
Turbo-Gas Blowers and Exhausters.
Turbo-Compressors for heavy duty.
Pump Motors (horizontal and vertical) for Mining Work, Elec-
trical Haulage and Winding Plant, etc.
Special Motors for driving Textile Machinery, Paper-making
Machinery, Agricultural Plant, etc.
Regulating Transformers, Induction Regulators and Automatic
Pressure Regulators.
Phase Compensators and Speed Regulating Sets for large
induction motors.
Electric Train Lighting Equipments.
Australian Representatives—
HAES & EGGERS LTD 163 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.


TIIE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE—
THE FAMOUS
Schebler Carburetter
The best Carburetter for ALL PETROL ENGINES
—either Land or Marine, Stationary or Moving.
The Schebler makes your engine develop
greater horse-power for a less consumption
of fuel.
The Schebler holds many world’s records.
Booklet and all information free.
Correspondence invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. IjTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia.
ft
'/A
A Dustless
Duster!
Your 'work -will bo
thoroughly done if you
use a “Three-in-One"
Oil Duster!
Sprinkle a few drops of
3-in-one” Oil
on a woollen rag or cheese-cloth
and you have a Duster that will lit
the dust— not merely disturb it!
“ 3-in-Ono ” is entirely free Iron
grease—just clear, water-white,
highly refined Dusting Oil that
makes everything clean and
bright. „ ... I
Imparts a fine polish to
furniture ; shines glassware
REID AND REID,
- Australasian Agents,
?*2 L,' Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Send for Free Sample
Bottle.
•Aav eaNivH-oi
b
v
STEVENS
Double 8 Single Barrel Shotguns
have Barrels and Lugs Drop-Forged in one piece.
Made of Specially Selected Steel —Strongest
where other Guns are Weakest.
For Catalogue and detailed information write to
ARTHUR H. HILL,
Australian Representative for J. Stevens
Arms and Tool Company,
G.P.O. BOX 86,
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
For Personal Protection use a
PIEPER BAYARP AUTOMATIC PISTOL.
HAS GREATEST STOPPING POWER.
vcv
vb
THREE CALIBRES-
'2S, '32 and '3BO
m
All Parts
Interchangeable,
Full Stocks
Carried for
Replacements.
Write to W. A. COX, G.P.O. Box 873, Sydney, for Booklets, post free.
'
/
yiV,-"
&
MODEL 1892
RIFLES
for Australian Game
The Winchester Model
.892 Rifle in .25, .32, .38'
or .44 Calibre is an ideal
gun for hunting Australian
game. This rifle is light in
weight, easy to operate,
and shoots accurately.
The cartridges which it
handles are very popular
everywhere, and particu-
larly well adapted for Aus-
tralian hunting. If you
don't own one, it's time
that you did.
PRICE.
20 in. Barrel, 60/- » 24 in. Barrel, 62/I’.
AlcocK &. Pierce,
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne
Catalogues Free
m
m
bv
ANTISEPTIC THROAT
FORMULA OF me LIVERPOOL THROW IOSNTft
These wonderfully efficacious Throat Pastilles act like a charm in
keeping the voice and throat in perfect condition.
Used.by Leading Singers throughout the world.
The celebrated Tetrazzini writes:—“l thank you for the
bpxes of Evans’ Pastilles sent me, which I find excellent and
efficacious.”
Ask for Evans’ Pastilles and see you get them.
b
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
vb
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA*
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
v
DINNEFORD’S
Magnesia
kU
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must seethe name
“DINNEFORD’S”
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
AGNE
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
\r
Right to the Tick f
You wIH save
Time £- Money
by carrying an
LWATCn.
Gent.'s Full-sized
Open Face Oxidised
Steel Lever Watch,
with 15
Jewels,
33/-
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.
12
il
The Oldest Jewellery House la Sydflfy’
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SY»NEY.
The Dandenong (Vic.) Foreshore Trust
has eliminated a lot of joy from local seaside
life by • the regulation that “No person
clothed in bathing costume shall sit, lie,
loiter on, or run along the beach or seashore,
but shall proceed in a direct line to-or from
the dressing place.” Even mixed bathing
loses half its attractions under- these strin-
gent conditions. The touch of Tango parade
is wanting. The “loiter” clause is especially
severe. Recently a dreamy girl in a nice
new outfit was summoned for having paused
to wonder whether she was proceeding in a
bee-line to her dip or had diverged a trifle.
“Hurry On”: He has gone now. Most
probably he is dead of heart disease ; but I
never will forget how he used to run for his
morning boat with his whiskers fluttering
in the wind and the perspiration ruining liis
freshly-starched collar. We early risers
used to see him charging afar off, as the
tram rumbled along the last stage to the
ferry wharf. If lie had been 10 years
younger, decently slim and clean-shaven, the
sight would have been less alarming ; but it
is terrible to see an elderly man throwing
himself through the atmosphere and only
hitting the pavement occasionally with his
hot feet in order to shoot himself forward
with greater force. Morning travellers who
affected to know, said that he occupied a
high and unnecessary post in the civil ser-
vice and could have roamed coolly into his
office at any hour. But he chose to rise late
and annov less energetic people by flying
and bounding for our absurdly early ferry.
I "think”" the malediction"that finishedhim was
launched by the lame man who does all the
growling for the suburb. “D —n him!” he
whined, one windless' summer morning.
“D—-n him! there he goes again! The
sight of that brute sweating for nothing on
a morning like this is enough to, drive a
man mad ! I hope to G —d he breaks his
neck !” The remark was received with chill
and decorous silence by all hands. But in
our hearts we thoroughly agreed with the
lame man.
It is still possible to be sent to gaol in
N.S.W. for debt— 1 -though the law euphemisti-
cally calls it “disobedience to an order of the
Court.” Also, one may be gaoled for “costs”,
and for not cashing up libel damages. If the
proposition be accepted that imprisonment
for debt is a barbarous anachronism, then,'
plainly, what N.S.W. wants is a clear,
definite legal position, making it above argu
ment that a creditor who trusts cannot, un-
less he is able to show fraud, employ court
machinery and the prison cell to collect his-
money. Nearly 100 years ago Sydney was.
grievously troubled over this question. Magis-
trates and prison officials were turned freely
into creditors’ thumbscrews. After a period
of violent kicking, N. S. Wales got
a law passed which caused the cred'tor
to abate his fury. The Act of March
30, 1825, laid it down that “debtors
imprisoned by their creditors must be
maintained by them during their confine-
ment in-gaol.- and, in default, must be dis-
charged.” It was a backhanded wav of
meeting the grievance, but it was splendidly
successful. When the creditor ran down
George-street (the gaol was then in George-
street), with his debtor’s dinner in covered
dishes, he was, if a few minutes late, in-
formed that the prey had been discharged.
“Snell” : The pictures of the Balkan war,
now being made visible in Australia, satisfy
us on one' point. Modern war* doesn’t offer
much scope even for the operator who is
willing to push his barrow into the thick of
it. So far as human eye can see, there is no
thick of it. It is a matter of great spaces.
It is thin, like clear soup or ghosts. Enemies
miles apart throw hunks of metal at the
fellow who is 125 farms away. You see no
blows —only puffs of smoke and scattered
bodies of men moving in a matter-of-fact
way on the hill-sides. Some day even smok-
ing will be prohibited, and a notice to that
effect will be nailed on the side wall of every
battle. Later on there will be a notice re-
questing soldiers not to give tips to the
enemy, and stating that any enemy fpund
accepting 6d. will be sacked by the mjfnagc'
ment. Looking closely, you obserye- ' that
small, brown objects fall out of the lines,
and take it lying down. They are shot
soldiers, but they don’t look a bit like it.
They just look like dropped baggage. It’s
only the faked American war film that actu-
ally looks like fighting. But the effects of
war are all" there in the' Balkan films—the
battered towns, and the butchered and
broken men. The latter you get in the am-
bulance ' scenes, ’ poor wretches villainously
mangled. And in. the end there is admira-
tion only for the deftness, speed and re-
source of the doctors and nurses who are
busy on the. repairs. -
THE CIVIL TOISTGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Jordan, pacificist, of the Pacific Slope,
now in Australia, puts much faith in the civil tongue
as a means cf averting war. Canada and U.S.A., he
says, have fallen back bn the civil tongue, and he
is "of the opinion that if Australia is sufficiently ..civil,
it may get along very well without either army ■or
navy.
It is a simple gospel, boys,
This learned fellow carts around.
If blessed Peace we would enjoy
We need to learn a most profound
And courtly bow, to touch the ground
With brow obsequious
We’ll have to make a fuss
In pure politeness to the foe
Who may come in a year or so.
Instead of taking little boys,
And drilling them in burning suns,
With shouting captains and the noise
Of rude explosions from the guns,
Let’s lead indoors the little ones
And teach them suavity.
On humbly bended knee
The grim invader’s conscience rake
With offerings of tea and cake.
You’ll And if you are thrown among
A greedy Asiatic horde,
That every' time a civil tongue
Cuts deeper than a shining sword.
If yellow legions from abroad
Como on with frantic hate
You open wide the gate, .
■ ■ Anil smile, and sweetest welcomes sigh, .
And they will go away and cry!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


m
a**.
m
■vi
„ a
mj&m •&'«
fSk'rfeiU » ;•?•• j
Hkl " »' t
v :H '
is
r-rT
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
IT was not until the Gillette did
* away with stropping and honing
that men got into the habit of the
every-morning shave.
Three minutes with the GILLETTE
slips your beard off clean —tones up
your face—starts you off brisk and
cheery for the day.
The Gillette is the only razor that can be instantly
adjusted for any type of beard, or for a sensitive skin.
Gillette Standard Sets, One Guinea. Sold everywhere. Write for
illustrated and descriptive Booklet. Please mention this paper.
AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA:
S. HOFFNUNG & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR. LTD.. LONDON. ENGLAND.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
vbv
are: you a boyish man?
Does the absence of hair on your upper lip accentuate your boyish appear-
ance? Why not grow a smart moustache?
USE CAPILLARINE.
CAPILLARINE forces the hair growth and helps to develop a smart
moustache in a very short time.
It is not injurious to the skin- —does not cause roughness or soreness —is sure
and satisfactory in its results.
Send for a Jar To-day. PRICE 10/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6, 3/6, 5/6 each, Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
EASTER APPROACHES
Will You Have Visitors?
The problem of how to keep them
entertained at night is often a very
hard one for the hostess.
Music is the greatest entertainer —
and the most versatile musical instru-
ment is certainly an “His Master’s
Voice” Gramophone.
There are many models ranging in
price from £5/12/6 to £6O.
Get the utmost value for your money
by purchasing an
“His Master’s Voice”
GRAMOPHONE
The model illustrated is the Oak
Library Grand —No. 2.
It is a beautiful instrument, elegant
and chaste in design, and a veritable
triumph in sound-production. Made
of selected fumed oak —inlaid.
Price £3O.
Write to-day for the Catalogue which
describes the instruments, also record
lists and name of nearest dealer.
vb
Sole Concessionaires for
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
You know it by this
OQtfcSOQOBC
“His Master's Voice"
£mrbrmr*nnn*miinr-~ —““—
■
Everyone Associates Quality
with Stewart Dawson’s.
In eight of the largest Cities in Australasia
you wilt fini-ta brilliant Stewart Dawson
lSslabljMkment — busy, prominent, and fre-
quented by people who are used, to the best.
But it's ■not alone quality that counts with
them; there is also a very decided price
advantage which they reap through our
highly-specialised buying, manufacturing and
selling .policy, which entirely cuts out the
middletnen. Better quality, plus price ad-
vantage — here's the attraction about Stewart
Dawson's.
J 4092.-
-Pearl and Peridot Set 9ct. Gold
£2/12/6.
Bangle,
Gold Secret Snap Oval BANGLES, 9ct. Gold, five
widths, 35/-, 45/-, 55/-, 65/-, 70/-
lsct. Gold, 55/-, 70/-, 80/-, 95/-, 105/-
C 9737. —Finest Quality Pearl Set lfict. Gold BANGLE,
£5/5/-
We pay the postage to any address. A
big art Catalog yours for the simple request.
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND: Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin.
LONDON: 19 to 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.; & 73 to 81 Regent St., W.
Horses Need Clipping
• r
Clipping time is near, and there’s good business ahead
for blacksmiths with a
“KANGAROO” Ball-Bearing
Power Clipper.
Horses must be clipped, and blacksmiths naturally
stand the best chance of getting clipping jobs to do.
37/6 equips you with the “Kangaroo” Outfit, and it
starts earning money right away. Station Owners,
and all possessing a large number of horses, will find
the “Kangaroo” Clipper a big money saver.
Simple to use —the work is practically automatic, and
all the help needed is someone to turn the handle.
Complete with Coates’ Improved Siqgle Tension Cutter
Head, Steel Flexible Shaft, Ball Bearings, Specially
Hardened Working Parts, and Special Gearing. A
wonderful, compact and reliable Po
Clipper, at a wonderful price.
37/6
“Buffalo” Treadle Grinder is
4A times faster than a
grindstone.
The handiest, fastest most efficient and compact
grinder for the low price of 30/-. There’s work in all
workshops and on every orchard or farm for a
“Buffalo.” It sharpens anything, grinds anything, and
does it 10 times faster than a grindstone. A simple,
easy foot pressure sends the grinding wheel spinning
at 3000 revs, per min.—just like a big power grinder.
Stands close to the wall, never in the way, but always
ready for service. Sturdy and strong frame of 1-inch
30/-
tubing, Corundum Grinding Wheel (8 x 11
inch ) Cand strong, adjustable Tool Rest.
K Proprietary Limited
“ EXPERTS IN TOOLS,”
554=66 & 582=88 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
KA


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw. All Fitted wUm vvireiess xeiegrap ll .)-
tintending passengers will need to make immediate
application for berths.
PASS UN OK II ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
LONDON £lO, £lB & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
O. Mail, from £49 19s. to £5.3 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson & Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents: .Geo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
OP AM A
OP VI E'J'O .
OSTEPT.E V
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOYA .
OPONTES .
OMP All
OPIIIP
.Triple-Screw
. Twin-Screw
13.000 Pegd. Tons.
12,130
12.12 9 ~
12.124 „
12.077
12.036 ~
9.023 „
8.282 „
6,814 „
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxuri-
ous Steamers. Cahines-de-lnxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads; Single Perth Pooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Black, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, Sc,
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET. SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. 11. O’M. WOOD,
11. D. HARD.
DEPOSIT YOOR SURPLUS MONEY
in this Bank, where it will earn INTEREST
at 3i% on the first £2OO, and 3% on the
excess to £5OO, and be REPAYABLE’ ON
DEMAND when you require it.
Deposits Received from ts.
MONEY TO LEND ON MORTGAGE
at Low Interest to Farmers and Settlers and
on Approved City and Suburban Freeholds.
This Bank has No Agencies at Post Offices.
Represented in the State by 118 Brandies
and over 500 Agencies.
By order of the Commissioners,
•T. 11. DAVIES, Secretarv
THE,
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £382,500.
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY;
lion. ROBERT PIIILP, M.L.A. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heart Office: Brisbane.
Sydney OfTice: 242 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP (31st Dee., 1913)
RESERVE FUND
£2,000,000
£1,198,534
£1,i95,446
£35,000
HEAD OPriCE—George and King Streets, svdney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS —Sir William T. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Sly, Esq,, LL.D.; Mark Sheldon,
Esq.; Arthur S. Bautos',- Escj. ; Frank N.
Yarwood, Esq.; Herbert It. Lysaoiit, Esq.
Brandies throughout New South Wales li Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid-Up .. .. .. 413,418 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . 154,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit,Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Jas. Munro, Esq. (Chairman) ; John
Cameron, Esq.,; F. Lord, Esq. ; Geo. Edw. Bunning,
Esq. ; Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The (Jo' 0 "' 8 * mutual [ife
assurance society limited
for
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and •
Annuities without Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000,000.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ib Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts. C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C.. M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretan
Suiddms
‘VT ORDDEUTSCHER LLOYD, N.D.L.
J3l IMPERIAL MAIL STEAMERS.
TO COLOMBO, SUEZ. NAPLES, GENOA, ALGIERS,
SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP. AND BREMEN.
*•1
"O JEi
3 £ £
oc*
£ ,5 O
£
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Installation.
All Steamers fitted with Laundry.
FARES TO LONDON: 1., £7l/10/-; 11., £4O;
111., £l5 to £l9. RETURN: 1., £lO7/5/-; 11.,
£6O; 111., £3O/12/- to £37/16/
' LOIIMANN and CO.. General Agents, 7 Bridge-st.
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
Steamers sail as under (circumstances permitting).
And every 28 days thereafter.
The largest and Finest Steamers trading between
Australia and San Francisco.
’Cabins de luxe, with private bath, etc.
tOne, two and three-berth rooms.
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 24 Hours at Papeete—the
“ Pearl of the Pacific.”
All Steamers equipped with Wireless Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth and
London.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
Steamers Fitted with Wireless. tThird-Class Only.
SALOON: FARES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O £l3/13/- to £l7/17/-
Special Round Tickets for Return by Orient Liner
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (.Second-class
Orient). Saloon Return and Stop-over Tickets inter-
changeable with Holt's Blue Funnel Line. Third-
Class Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
with P. k O. Branch Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stain
dard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, kc., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD. Agents in Australia
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting)
SYDNEY A
BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
•CAIRNS
(•Transhipping for
this anrl other
Queensland ports).,
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney March 28.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 1.
Leaves Sydney, April 4.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne April 8.
Leaves Sydney April 11.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping- for
S.A. and W.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 28.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney April 4.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
ISLAND TOURS
TO PAPUA
(via the Queensland Coast.)
A Charming Combination
Tour.
S.S. “MATUNGA,”
MARCH 30.
Brisbane, Cairns, Port
Moresby, Samarai, Woodlark
Island.
£20.
§s
TO THE NEW HEBRIDES
(via Lord Howe and Norfolk
Islands).
53 DAYS’ TRIP.
S.S. “Makambo,”
APRIL 1.
Calling at about 80 Trading
and Mission Stations
throughout the Group.
5.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD., Head Office, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
vb
£3,500,000
£2,350.000
£3,500,000
£9.350 000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt., M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The lion. Sir Normand McLauiTn, ivi., ±>i.L.C.
The Hon. James T. Walker
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milson, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St.. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle St., E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the AVorkl.
Cable remittances made .to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD. J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Taid-up .. . . £1,976,168 15 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,680,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
£5,656,168 15 0
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen. Esq Chairman.
Hon 11. E. Rater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon 11. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. llixson, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Herd Office: George Street. SYDNEY.
London Office: 13 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq.; lion. 11. S.
Littleton ; N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Rranehes throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
gank of geui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. * • £1,000,000
Preference Shares . • • • • • 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up ' 500,000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Paid-Up .. .• ..£538,307
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. . . . 159,051
Reserve Fund (invested in Govt. Stock).. 76,500
£773.861
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. . v;
Gen. Man.. Edvvd. D. Day. Asst. Man.: F. 11. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE Best Stories written in Australia
annear in The Lone Hand ‘each month.
Trice 6d.
A Whole Week Saved
SYDNEY to SAN FRANCISCO by the
Oceanic Steamship Company
10,000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY—
The through trip to England can be accomplished
in 29 Days via Samoa, Honolulu, San Francisco.
RETURN TICKETS GOOD BY P. &0., ORIENT LINE,
N.D.L., N.Z .S. Co. and S. S. & A. Co.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Y'HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Bs. 6d. ; second-class rail and steerage
on steajner, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—-
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing Director.
bvcbv
Points
£- /ni/entorj
CAN 1 OBTAIN A PATENT?
The, quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is
to write to me describing vour invention, enclosing
a small sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing
is not essential ; all that is necessary at first is to
give me . YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is
patent-able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions
for further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice
or information regarding Patent matters are cordi-
ally invited to consult me personally or by letter. In
all cases a careful consideration of their plans, an
honest opinion, and a prompt reply may be
expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T.S.S. WARILDA (7713
tons), Wednesday,
April 1.
'T.S.S. WANPILLA(77SS
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
April 11 and May 9.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
WOLLOWRA, April 4.
MAIILOO, April 11.
GRANTALA, April 18.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL A CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
Via FIJI AND HONOLULU.
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
AROUND THE WORLD TOURS.
FIRST AND SECOND OEASS. ,
SAILINGS :
Leave
Auck-
land.
April 10
May 8
June f>
July 3
July 31
Aug. 28
Sept. 25
*New
J.NCW IMjJIC-DVACW ,
luxe en suite. Nursery, Laundry, Electric Lifts, etc.
t Sails 10 a. m. Monday, April 6.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION STRAIN SNIP COMPANY OP N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
ADELAIDE TO LONDON IN 34 DAYS
(VIA , SUEZ CANAL.)
T.S.S. WILTSHIRE.
12,500 Tons. CAPTAIN PRENTICE.
BRISBANE .. .. APRIL 4, 1914.
SYDNEY .. .. APRIL 21, 1914.
HOBART . . . . APRIL 25, 1914.
MELBOURNE .. APRIL 29, 1914.
ADELAIDE . . MAY 2, 1914.
Fares to London: Saloon, £4O to £45.
Third-Class, £l6/16/- to £lB/18/-
Saloon fares from Brisbane, £2 extra.
Third-Class, from Brisbane, £l/1/- extra.
The Saloon accommodation consists of two-berth
and family cabins on the Upper Deck amidships, in-
cluding Lounge and Smoke Rooms. Well lighted and
ventilated cabins and spacious decks. Third-class
passengers supplied with fresh provisions from cool
chambers throughout the voyage.
Electric Light throughout. Return- and Round-
Trip Tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez route.
Prepaid passages arranged. Fitted with Wireless
Telegraphy. ~ , .'
For further information, pamphlets, etc., apply to
ISIRT & COMPANY, LTD., Svdriey and Brisbane.
McILWRAITH, McEACIIARN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne and Newcastle.
ELDER, SMITH & COMPANY LTD., Adelaide.
H. JONES & CO., LTD., Hobart.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
“Zealandia,”
“Ulimaroa,”
“Riverina,”
“Westralia,”
"Wimmera,”
“Victoria.”
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND I*oll IS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500.000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . •
effected on all classes qf
Buildings, Stocks, Furm
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “ United ” is an Australian institution.
THOMAS M. TINLKY. Manager.
I’nWie Notice.
TONGKAH HARBOR TIN DREDGING CO., N.L.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Dividend (the
fourteenth) of 10 per cent., or two shillings per
share, amounting to £15,000, be declared,, payable
on April 22, 1914, and for this purpose the Sharp
Register be closed from April 15 to April 2- lnclu-
&lV Dated at Hobart, this 13th day of March, 1914.
By order of the Directors,
11. J. WISE, Manager.


Hotels. &c.
m
George hotel,
St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 13/- per day.
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel Is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. It is
the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING lIALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSy CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN fur Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE
v
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
from Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES Raven
B 1 ac k, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn
Price 3/6, posted 3/1t
Directions with every
bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne
for a fair dinkum GCT
£=2_
0000060000
©a©
ME-ZON
Accordeons
The World’s Best
35/-, 42/- 63/-
Sole Agent:
LYONS,
Bourkest.,Melb.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
.i. V s
vv
Bank of Hnstralta
* SYDNEY
This Bank is open for all classes of GENERAL BANKING BUSINESS a ®
STANWAY HOUSE, KING STREET, SYDNEY
Also at Canberra, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Ifobart, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville and London.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the worid. Bills negotiated or forwarded for
collection. Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common
wealth, L'nited Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits.
Advances made against approved securities.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT
N.S.W. Branch Office s BERESFORD CHAMBERS, 30 CABTLEREAQH STREET
(top of Moore Street), SYDNEY.
Branches in the above cities and 2,000 Agencies at Post Offices throughout the Commonwealth
Deposits from 1/- to £3OO. Interest at 3% per annum.
Deposits or Withdrawals may be made at any Branch or Agency within the Commonwealth.
JAMES KELL Pkpiitt Govkrnor. February, 19U- DENISON MILLER, Govkrnos
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy an<l Delightful Climate, Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
With her limitless potentialities, still in the process of initial development, Queens-
land offers a held of unbounded scope to the investor, the scientist, the tourist, the
prospective settler and to the honest worker.
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Brisbane.
T. C. TItOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. A. HESTON, Local Director.
cv
Price 12/- and upwards of all Station
ers, Jewellers, and Stores. Booklet
about the Onoto Pen free on appli-
cation to Thos. db la Rub & Co.,
Ltd., 322Bunhill Row, London, E.C.,
or the Australasian Representatives
Norman Baker & Longhurst, 30 York
Street, Sydney.
Ask for ONOTO INK
Best for all Pens,
Get the \
Pen made and warranted by the
Largest Firm of Fountain Pen
Manufacturers in Great Britain :
the Onoto. It is All-British;
designed to last a lifetime. Fills
itself, cleans itself, and cannot
leak.
N
v
The Self filling
Safety fountain Pea.
Pen
“Give Me a PLUM RAZOR.”
cvc
vbv
v
The man who appreciates shaving comfort says “Give me a Plum Razor
every time.”
He knows what a splendid, easy cutting blade the Plum has —the delight
which its keen, cutting edge occasions. Yes, the Plum is different —
and in its difference lies its superiority.
Made from the finest silver steel tempered to perfection, the Plum is
ready for service every morning, ready to give that easy shave, which
makes the operation a delight.
Don’t hesitate to send for a Plum to-day.
PRICE 10/6 POST FREE.
We guarantee to keep it in good order for two years free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6,
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/- This line makes a very handsome
present.
All the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITI*,£N
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
ABBEY.
Abbey Shoes are made in many
Stylish Models, to fit the feet of
well-dressed men.
Their dependable quality is your
safeguard.
The boot illustrated is a Glace Kid
Derby Bal., 22/6. In special
quality, leather lined, 27/6.
Also, in Box Calf, 27/6.
And in Tan Willow Calf, 25/-,
27/6.
Postage extra.
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Send for Catalog.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
vv
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘ARABIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
“Arabis” Egyptian Henna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive you. Look for the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardlev on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia.
THE LAST WORD
IN STEAM ENGINES IS UNQUESTIONABLY
MARSH ALL’S
which have demonstrated their superiority in every part of the Globe, and in every class of work, over a period of 60 years.
£=*
QUALITY and Positive RELIABILITY
are MARSHALL’S Watchwords
Ask any of the hundreds of satisfied users of MARSHALL'S PORTABLES, STEAM
TRACTIONS, OIL TRACTORS, BOILERS, etc., throughout New South Wales,
what they think about their purchase, and you will be quite convinced.
“Can't be beat," “Best on earth," “Working constantly for 50 years without a hitch,"
“Worth their weight in gold," “Not a moment's lost time" these are a sample
of the remarks we hear every day throughout the year.
Don’t be persuaded into believing there are other engines just as good as MARSHALL’S!
Send for Descriptive Catalog post free. CASH OR VERY EASY TERMS.
R. L. SCRUTTON ®. CO. LTD.,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“COURTESY and ATTENTION AT COST PRICE.”


A Watertight
BostocK Boot
Weight 41bs.
Advocated especially for surveying pur-
poses. Really a Shooting Boot df
superlative excellence, and very
popular in New Guinea and Papua.
Tan Calf Lace Boot; Heavy
Soles ; absolutely Water-
tight.
PLEASE SAY
WHAT SIZE.
//ad
m
x
. V
45/-
PAIR.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED BRISBANE
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
New South Wales Agents: FOGjQdTT JONES & CO. LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
“Rangan”: Bananaland’s Local Authori-
ties have followed the example of their
Government and gone on a severe borrowing
burst. To date they owe £3,270,000 to the
Treasury, which, for a population of about
600,000, is good going. The yearly interest
and redemption eats up £200,000 odd. The
Brisbane Water Board heads the list with a
debt of £781,000; followed by the Rockhamp-
ton Harbor Board, £305,000 (incidentally
this body recently suspended all operations
bar collecting revenue to pay up some back
debts) ; then the Townsville Harbor Board,
£304,000. Compared with revenue, the debt
is absurdly large. Thus Gympie’s income is
£5OOO and debt £39,000; Rockhampton Har-
bor Board’s income, £30,000, and debt
£305,000; and there are a dozen others whose
interest and redemption eat anything up to
50 per cent, of their income. Naturally, the
interest is, in many cases, much overdue.
For instance, six out of the 32 central sugar
mills are in arrears to the extent of £87,000.
That’s not much, of course, especially when
all you’ve got to do is book it up to pos-
terity.
A Bunch of Grapes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cluster of purple lanterns, prisoning
The filtered sunshine. Rubies red a-swing
Dropped from some rushing genie’s treasure
load.
Or just a pedlar-fairy’s saddle bags
Hung from the back of an indignant toad
Who, ’spite the thistle-rowelling, sourly
lags.
Or a mere bunch of grapes. A hard, green
thing
That swelled throughout the soft grey rains
of Spring
And slowly caught the sunset’s blush, or
stored
A molecule of sunlight from each noon,
Thus, every mist-expelling morning, scored
Against the cold white searching 6f the
moon.
Press with your finger! Burst the pedlar’s
bag!
A strip of green flesh oozes like a rag,
And one red drop that stains your finger’s
white,
Where to the guarding knuckle slips a ring—
Is this all it has woven of the light?
Is this all that it holds of lavish Spring?
Ah ! no! Just shut your eyes and I will tell.
Across the windless desert sounds a bell.
Like echo from some hidden pasture lands
A wooden bell with sunset in its call;
And cutting black triangles in the sands
From the grooved pyramids the shadows fall.
Here the dun camel with his swaying head,
The little pointed tent, the carpet spread
Where prone upon his beard the Arab fell.
Do you think Allah laughs to see him
crouch
Thanks abject, for scant portion in the well
Or few dry raisins from the goat-skin pouch?
What else the grape heart holds? A sloping
hill;
Straight vine poles in an acre, sun-steeped
still,
A black-browed girl with gold rings in her
ears,
Brushing from her bare breasts the brown-
winged wasps
Lured by the purple rings the grape juice
smears,
Down to the waist a swarthy lover clasps.
And yet again. An arbor in the South,
A lady with a wine stain on her mouth,
So still she lies in that deserted place.
In chequered fancies sun and shadow meet.
A rose blows down to kiss her fixed white
face;
A man’s glove blurs the marble at her feet.
Is there aught else the magic bunch can hold?
There comes a clink of glasses. Thatched
and old
The wine shop drowses in the summer haze,
Behind the lazy creaking of its board.
What devil made him pipe the “Marseillaise”
To ease his throat. . . .and stifle on a sword?
Cluster of purple lanterns, prisoning
The gleanings of full many a golden Spring;
The kiss of Egypt on her lover’s brow
Ere slid the pearl from wine-wet finger
tips....
Gather the close-packed jewels ! Spend them
now
To quench a summer drought upon your lips!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, March 21, 1914.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Governor has been lying low on the
vice-regal bow lately. Even the celebrations
on the Saint-day of the most popular snake-
charmer in romantic history failed to draw
him into the open. I presume he is busy
packing up his kilt and sporran and his
Hielan’ bonnet preparatory to heading for
the West. He is not expected to return to
headquarters until the end of May.
Bouchard, M.L.A., and his proprietary
lady lent their charming old garden last
Thursday as the scene of a “coin tea” in aid
of the West End erbehe and kindergarten.
It was a sultry afternoon, so the cool, tree-
shaded lawns looked very inviting, but the
moneyed crowd didn’t turn up, or didn’t shell
out, for all the “coin” that eventuated
totalled £7 odd.
That same afternoon the Governor and
Lady Mac., attended by that ever-useful
handy-man, Private-Secretary Foxton, paid a
short-notice visit to the Women’s Residential
College. The executive connnittee had no
time to iron out its best (in fact
some of it hadn’t time to get there at all)
before his Ex. was laying it over the door-
knocker. However, he liked all the arrange-
SPECIAL ATTENTION.
ANTONIO (giving order): “Steak and the oys[?]! Spesh! For de cop—Peter de Murph!"
ments very much, and the fact that there is a
nice little laundry set apart for those girls
who care to wash out their own frillies
greatly charmed him. He wants women to be
domesticated.
Yesterday tliat same Executive entertained
at tea the University Professorial Staff, the
Advisory Board and all the feminine belong-
ings of the same, at the Women’s College.
In fact the University has had rather “a
grand slam” this week. It has been much in
the public eye since it started work on
Wednesday. Emmanuel College, the happy
hunting ground of the Scotchbyterians, had
an opening on Wednesday afternoon.
Prayers and a religious address followed by
tea. I did not stop to sample the tea, the
foregoing proceedings being very filling.
A lucky young man of the name of B. D.
Peren (who by the way is a grandson of the
late Sheriff Halloran) has persuaded Miss
Madge Woolcock to become Mrs. B. D. P. on
April 22, and go help him to grow apples at
Stanthorpe, where he owns a fruit Eden.
The tall, chic Madge has called her future
home “Tango”—l suppose she and the happy
man are devoted to that dull saraband. Miss
Woolcock is the elder daughter of barrister
John Woolcock, who was once upon a time
considered a likely candidate for the Wool-
sack, or whatever it is tliat judges are sup-
posed to camp upon when' they become Lord
Chancellors.
Being Lent, there are no society weddings
to record, but immediately after Easter the
knot-tiers of the Anglican Church will be
kept busy putting the old question: “Who
giveth this woman?” or “Who chanceth this
woman?” or whatever it is. On the 18th
of the month Dr. Love’s dainty little
daughter Marion will be handed over to
Mr. Williams. As he is somewhere about
6ft. 6in. (perhaps more) and she is quite
l|ft. shorter I don’t anticipate that he will
need any assistance. Still, you never can
tell. It is to be an evening wedding, and an
evening reception is to be held a few days
before the ceremony.
Our country town of Warwick has been on
a jamboree! The Picnic Races and two or
three balls all took place in the space of a
few days, and the smartest of the squat-
tocracy from Toowoomba to Stanthorpe
gathered together to eat, champagne, and hoe
things down generally. They are a cliquey
and exclusive lot, these Darling Downs squat-
ters, and consider themselves “county,” my
dear. Mr. Pikedale White is the President
of the Picnic Race Club, and his wife in a
gorgeously beautiful frock, handed out the
trophies to the owners of the winning Buce-
phaluses during an interval between dances
at the Club ball.
The races on St. Patrick’s Day attracted
the same old crowd, but the dressing was not
up to the usual standard observed on the 17th
of Ireland. For one thing it was too hot for
autumn finery, and for another, many of our
Smart Set are still in your inundated city.
Miss Macgregor put in an appearance clad in
a white silk frock, and a black velvet toque.
She was under the chaperonage of that pretty
young matron, Mrs. A. 11. Whittingham. A
striking gown was worn by a well-known or-
nament of the vaudeville stage. It was of
violet crepe de chine, much slashed and giving
a view of very dainty black satin shoes and
silk -stockings. With this the lady collabo-
rated a velvet coat of the same shade edged
with fur. This outfit, Thargomindah, on a
day when the heat-calculating machine was
humming at 90 degrees in the shadow. Still,
what is life without notriety? With that
reflection in my mind I must tell you that if
the King of the Belgians had happened along
last Tuesday, he would have found plenty of
work for his needle and cotton, in sewing up
split skirts. One sweet young vision
strolled about in blissful ignorance of the
fact that the indiscretions of her skirt re-
vealed a large hole in her well-filled silk
stocking.
The races this afternoon drew a very good
crowd to Ascot. The Governor was present,
accompanied by Lady and Miss Macgregor,
and attended by Captains Foxton and Talbot.
His Ex. gave a tea-party to about 16 of the
Quality, including Mrs. Real, Mrs. J. T. Bell
and one of her pretty daughters. Speaker
Armstrong, Hon. A. H. Whittingham (wifey
didn’t show up), Mr. Ramsey, Mr. and Mrs.
Archer and others. It was a very hot after-
noon, but again fur-trimmed garments were
donned by a few women. They were not
really smart garments, being of the “little
dressmaker” order. Fur trimming really re-
quires to be put on by the hand of an artist.
On Monday evening, at Rowe’s caf§, several
hundred strenuous folk, who fill in most of
their time teaching the young idea how to
go forth and meet its financial and social
obligations, gathered to express their un-
biassed opinion of the scientific Dr. Shirley
and his fragile-looking missus, and to load
them with a substantial addition to their
family plate-chest. His whack was a cabinet
of cutlery, and the lady received a case of
fish knives and forks, also dessert ditto.
Acting-Premier Barnes was prominent in the
scene, and said nice, flattering things to Dr.
Shirley, as also did Mr. R. If. Roe.
The energetic and popular Mrs. Papi, w r ho
has been secretary of the South Brisbane
Croquet Club for 13 years, has retired from
that position. Last Monday the members gave
her a silver jewel casket to hold the family
diamonds, a life-membership of the club, and
a steady job as vice-president.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
“Rangan”: Bananaland’s Prickly Pear
Commission returns this month after a tour
of the world. By 4he latest reports they
only appear to have been further convinced
that the porcupine shrub is the devil of a
proposition. The only definite method of
extermination received was given gratis by
a West Indian planter, and was to this
effect: “Put a fence round the , and
pray for a hundred years’ drought.” He
hadn’t tried it himself, but he cordially re-
commended it. The prickly pear, by the
way, is a Mexican contraption. It has
entered into the souls of the people, hence
their frequent rows. In Mexico the biggest
cactus becomes president.
“Rangan”: One of the objects of the
Papuan expedition under Clarke is to get
past the 610-mile mark on the Fly River,
the record put up by Governor Macgregor,
of Bananaland, in 1890. Macgregor is often
quoted as a fossil, but bis life has been far
more useful than that of the average emer-
gency royalty. In Papua he was always on
the go and personally helped in the exploit-
ing of the land. This scribe remembers being
amongst his party on a shooting expedition
there. A duck was swimming amongst the
reeds at about 60yds. Macgregor drew his
revolver and shot it clean through the head.
Mac. was the only one who expressed no
surprise. He calmly returned the revolver
to its place and motioned for one of the
“boys” to get the bird. No other Governor
has seen so much of Bananaland as Mac-
gregor, and he has the distinction of being
one of the two Government officials to have
ever set foot on Mornington Island, where to
the scandal of Minister Appel, the natives
wear no clothes and smile at all creation in
the Altogether.
Justice Tom a’Beckett, who is to act as
Vic. Chief Justice while John Madden is
away on his year’s leave, was, like his spruce
old friend, born in the purple of the law.
His father, T. T. a’Beckett, was admitted
as an attorney in England in 1829, and in
Victoria in 1851. The new Acting C.J. was
“called” or howled at in England in 1859,
and admitted in Victoria in 1860. So he
has done 54 years hard labor, mostly in the
Equity Court before Judge Molesworth.
Mr. Robin Kerr Clark, an Australian
squatter, has been selected by the
British Unionists to fight the Poplar
by-election on their behalf. Poplar is
a working-man’s constituency; but the
sort of British working-man that inhabits
it is such an incorrigible ass that
he is quite likely to support Mr. Clark.
His place is in N. S. Wales. He divided liis
time, while in Australia, between toiling
lightly on his station and performing the
more strenuous job of aide-de-camp to vari-
ous Governors. He married five years ago
Lady Beatrice Moore, the pretty sister of
Lord Drogheda, and went to live in England.
Summarised description of Australia’s new
Gov.-General, Munro-Ferguson, from two
columns by Sydney Sun’s London corre-
spondent :
Can wear gold lace.
Will bring to bear upon Constitutional and party
disputes the knowledge acquired in the House of
Commons.
Knows the Federal history of Australia because he
is an omnivorous reader.
Also the social life of the inhabitants, because
T. Carmichael, while Governor of Victoria, corres-
ponded with him. , ...
Likewise, the productive and industrial activities
of the continent, because he has seen letters sent to
Leith from sturdy immigrants.
He resembles the aforesaid T. Carmichael in his
chief characteristics and ways.
Has the same pawky humor.
Has a large, leonine head.
Although born of independent means, always
walked humbly before the Lord.
When canvassing perambulated the docks wearing
a rough jacket and a cutty pipe.
Men mistaking him for a workman voted for him.
Is elder of the parish church.
Was one of a crowd of 25,000 at Ivirkaldy to see
a football match played.
Now we know what we’re getting for our
£lO,OOO a year.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. In Suez Canal.
BOSK
, ci
m
&
If .s
•fi
/ /5a
rS<4
-r:
0
PI
u
*
■ss.
\! \
\
\
\
r*i
VR
il
ty
r< ’
jcpx] /{$
if,'! #b
H* »v
SK53£SwSS«mk
(P.
f Mi l ; ■,
r<
ft
&
a
aw \
<y*sww«7ir~
K .
&V
M
7^
sew
*>j $r
l
Tit
*}«*»*
I
vC~«sS333**¥
'■■:■■ r
®5
55j[ b
4
fe
Sg£s
7fr7z
_y
/.i 1
&
C>
. JL
•OF****
75%
7>
7
3¥!
J*
»r
Z
Z£4
.■'r
7i
<*
t-*E.
Cobra, Boot PolisH.
Chuncler Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Buys some ostrich
Feathers, too.
And his friend,
The “COBRA” bear,
Also buys some
Plumes to wear.
H e and Chunder
Won’t give in
To these greedy
Men of sin,
For their wits —
So we divine —
Are as bright
As “COBRA” shine,


Was pale
and thin
Weak and delicate
children grow healthy,
sturdy and strong
when given SCOTT’S
Emulsion.
“ My two sons, one pale and thin, were
suffering with severe coughs and loss
of appetite. After the first bottle
of SCOTT’S they were brighter and
eating better. In a short time they
were quite cured and looked a
picture of health
Both children like SCOTT’S so well
that they call it cream.”—(Signed)
Mrs. C. Barnard, 64, Angel Street,
Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W, 31/8/11-
scorn
Emulsion
Only the genuine SCOTT’S
bears the Fishman Trade Mark.
TRADE
1L
MARK
jlpollinaris
Annual filling at the Apollinaris Spring
Year 1901 - - - 27,000,000 Bottles
Year 1911 - • - 37,000,000 Bottles
“ THE QUEEN OF TABLE WATERS”
LACTOBACILLINE
TABLETS.
Prepared under the authority and scientific control of
PROFESSOR METCHNIKOFF.
Lactobacilline combats and arrests the development
of pathogenic and putrefactive germs in the intestinal
canal. By this action Lactobacilline not alone exerts
a powerful influence in the restoration to and main-
tenance of perfect general health, but is specially indi-
cated in AFFECTIONS OF THE DIGESTIVE TRACT.
Gastro-enteritis, muco-membranous entero-colitis, con-
stipation, intestinal tuberculosis, typhoid fever, influ-
enza, appendicitis and intestinal catarrh. IN CASES OF
AUTOINTOXICATIONS —cirrhosis of the liver, chronic
nephritis, arterio-sclerosis, chlorosis, anaemia, dyspepsia,
etc., IN ALL CASES DUE TO ABNORMAL INTES-
TINAL FERMENTATION: IN ALL CASES DEPEN-
DENT ON DISTURBANCES OF SECRETION of bile
and pancreatic juice (gallstone, pancreatic diabetes.)
In diabetes, Lactobacilline, by virtue of the fermen-
tation which it sets up in the alimentary sugars, di-
minishes the Glycosuria. The tablets are put up in
glass cylinders, and are packed in boxes each con-
taining eight cylinders. Price 5/6 per box. Each
cylinder and box bears the words “Le Ferment Seul
Fournisseur du Professor Metchnikoff,” without which
none are genuine. Lactobacilline can be ordered
through any chemist. Full particulars can be obtained
from the Societe le Ferment, Australasia Chambers,
406-414 Queen Street. Brisbane, or branches: Vic-
kery’s Chambers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney ; Safe Deposit
Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne; Ellershaw’s
Buildings, Cliff Street, Fremantle; Smeeton’s Build-
ings. Onppn Street. Auckland.
ft
IMPROVED
Compass
Clynometer
For Taking LEVELS and ANGLES.
Reading inclinations in inches
per yard of degrees.
Invaluable to Prospector, Miner, Geologist,
Engineer and Squatter.
Strong, Compact. Best lacquer brass,
2tin. dia., Solid Leather Case.
Printed Instructions. POSTED
22/6
A. P. Greenfield & Co. Ltd.
189-191 George Street, Brisbane.
APENTA
NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Obtainable all Chemiata
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold City
or Suburban Properties, or on Freehold
and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security of Government
Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Australian States or New
Zealand. SW“AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. AV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; The Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; The
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black,M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Winchombe, M.L.C. ; Adrian
Knox, Esq., lv.C. ; Sir Alex. MacCormick, M.D. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teece, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., F.S.S. HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
li
w
A HOME FOR
MELBOURNE GUESTS.
Corner Flinders Street
and Spencer Street,
MELBOURNE.
Sir Charles Hotham Hotel
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
rO««TPEN
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George St., Sydney
v
C 3
AUSTRALIANS
IN LONDON
will be glad to know of the numerous
amenities and pleasant sides of hotel
life presented by the Hotel Russell.
The visitor feels more like coming
into the atmosphere of English home-
life at its best than entering an hotel.
c There is that domesticity of service
and general environment that make for supreme comfort and homeli-
ness. The cooking is faultless ; the style and scheme of furnishing
luxurious but restrained ; the tariff modest.
C At the centre of London’s throbbing life,
it is yet peaceful and quiet, overlooking the
park-like Russell Square. A penny ’bus fare
from almost any spot of interest in London
l owiixiissei
London
lUtftll
U«UiUUi
Hunyadi Janos
Indiscretions of diet are the most frequent cause of liver complaints.
Other contributing factors are excess of alcohol and lack of exercise.
To safely and speedily overcome such a condition there is no better
remedy than the taking of a wine-glassful of Hunyadi Janos Natural
Aperient Water before breakfast every day for a week or fortnight,
which has the happy effect of relieving in an almost instantaneous
manner any congestion of the liver.
Hunyadi Janos is obtainable at all chemists.
The Famous NATURAL Aperient Water
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
17 O’Connell St.»
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MSS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Jackeroo: If this catches your eye (you
are the man who supplied a par in The Bulletin of
17/2/1910, and your address has long since gone
astray), this paper would be glad to hear from you.
A highly respectable legal firm seeks you as a wit-
ness, having recognised that on certain matters you
are an expert... .Worker: (1) Mr. Higgs, by his own
showing, reckoned £5,736,000 per annum too much
to spend on the military and naval defence of a con-
tinent about the size of Europe, and this paper didn’t
agree with him. (2) Also, by his own showing, he
said to the chairman, “Will you protect me?” Which
was exactly what this paper said he said.... Dashit:
Very sorry if a correspondent mixed these Archers
up like the two babies of Buttercup—or was it
Butterfat? —in “Pinafore.” But there is a large clan
of them, and mixtures will happen. Still we admit
that if this paper alluded to a candidate as an old
war-horse, whereas he was only a young loser of the
’bus, somebody had a right to be annoyed. . . .Dux:
It’s impossible to believe that you thought that horse
story to be original; so you may look up the penalty
for attempting to obtain money under false pre-
tences, and hope that our wrath will go down with
the sun or the evening beer....G. C. Hamilton:
Thanks; but the position isn’t very clear from the
newspaper clipping. .. .Lagani Namo: The “patent
copying process” which you apply to your copy would
be more acceptable if you would leave enough space
between the lines to squeeze a nib into. . . .Ding Bat:
Adds nothing enlightening to the argument....
J.D.G. (Alpha) : You might get something for the
paper from Angus and Robertson, of Sydney....
Early: News that Gus Elen now asks but £5O weekly
for his services is discounted somewhat by the fact
that he is dead. Don’t know why he is dead, but he
is... .A.P.F. (Q.) : According to Who’s Who, Jordan
was born at Gainesville, Wyoming County, New York.
....Old Scratch. No interest in that Maoriland
sheet’s opinion about Australians. Send us the moon
they’ve got at Auckland, and if it isn’t the agricul-
tural editor’s energetic day he’ll examine it....
Ku-Klux-Klan: Quite a while ago a person got into
trouble through taking liberties with the N.S.W. elec-
toral system in the interests of the Labor party, and
Holman, now Premier, brushed the matter airily
aside as a case of “misplaced enthusiasm,” or some-
thing like that. Ever since then there has been a
vague impression in certain quarters that any kind
of electoral swindle would be approved, or condoned,
or ignored, or at least the official eye wouldn’t see it. It
is simply wonderful what vague impressions arise in
certain, or uncertain, quarters.... Adam: Let’s see;
wasn’t that the story that caused the disagreement
between the boys). .. . W.T.: It appears to be about
something, but we can’t be sure. . . .Albion: Interest-
ing par., but the explanation of Chapman’s methods
is beyond ordinary comprehension. Write it again. .. .
Wyreema : Too long and too dull—too everything, in
fact, and not enough of something or other. . . .Our
Most Illegible Contributor: All it wants is to be
typed nicely, and made legible, and the punctuation
improved, and a little space left between the lines.
Also, you might have another look at the grammar
and overhaul the spelling, which seems to be out of
repair. It is a fine bit of verse, except for draw-
backs. .. .C.N.L.: Haven’t got the time or the space.
Bill is too like a thousand other Bills who got drunk.
....Morphia. You won’t become a habit with us on
such stuff... .D.M.S. (V.): Very nice, polite, tidy,
uplifting verse, but it won’t go Resignatum:
A cruelly clumsy thing. Have you—er—no innards
of compassion?....Africanus (Johannesburg, S A.) :
Sony, no use to us H.C. (Melb.) : Sketches of
no value here. . . .G.G.: Theme weakly handled. You
remind us of a decrepit old cop pawing an immense
burglar and trying to waft him into ga01.... Imma-
ture M.: It won’t go the distance as a story, and
it’s too long for a paragraph. If you don’t cut your
stuff, the sub-editor has to do it.'. . . J.W.J., Jr.:
Oh, go and play marbles! C.A.: “Jim, the Cook’s
Slushy,” is a poor, rambling product, and in writing
it especially for this paper you were squandering your
time and our anger D.M.8.L.: Both unsuitable.
.. . .P.G.: Quite mechanical. . . .M.M. (Paddington) :
It is too beautifully tender for print. .. .James H.:
No, James, you are too feverish altogether. . . .John
R.: Well, the basket is mighty and shall prevail—at
least, we hope so. .. . Renbah : You travel a long way
on paper, and arrive in the middle of the wilderness.
.. . . J.M.E.: Crude verse.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.E.J.: Hopelessly stiff beginner’s stuff. Search your-
self and see if you really possess a sense of humor....
E.R.C. : About as funny as a wedding on a wet day.
.. . .H.H.M.: Dreadful young man escorting an abun-
dant young female whose dress doesn’t contain her.
Gag looks old. . J.G. (M.L.) : Ancient gag and draw-
ing doesn’t scream for reproduction. ...D.S. (V.) :
Of course, it’s original. It’s too bad to be anything
else.
“T. Tufthunter” : A visiting soap baronet
advised Australia the other day to get its
“donkey work” done by colored labor, and
suggested that the white man would then be
a gilded person of great consequence.
Queensland, a little less than 40 years ago,
had nearly achieved the soap baronet’s ideal
of an earthly paradise. But it somehow
didn’t work oiit right for the white man. In
the bush you' niet Chows on horseback and
white men humping bluey. The discolored
persons were everywhere, on stations, even
on the Darling Downs. I never saw them
on Felton (Tyson’s), but they were on Clif-
ton (Tooth’s), adjoining. On the Burnet,
Dawson, McKenzie, the Chow was supreme;
and he had the aborigines poisoned with his
opium (charcoal) everywhere. Even the
washerwoman was cut out by the Chows. It
was quite common for a white man, when
asking for a job, to be told he was
the wrong color. In Brisbane almost
every sort of little business was run
by discolored persons, and you would
see Kanaka tigers flunkeying on the car-
riages of the plutocrats. A poor white man,
instead of being a person of consequence, was
merely trash. I worked on a sugar planta-
tion in 1874, and there were about three
Kanakas to every white man. The sugar
boiler was a white. So was the engineer.
He got 30s. per week ! There was a German
overseer of the field Kanakas, and he had to
be very civil, as cane knives are sharp. There
was only one Kanaka woman among the lot,
and they all pigged together. The wages
of the white trash were at the rate of £4O
per year and rations —plenty of black sugar
(crawling with maggots), flour, beef and tea.
Any thing else was extra. When, therefore,
the Levers tell us to get colored people in to
do our “donkey work,” we can tell him that
we tried that scheme when he was a
youngster in short pants, and an ounce of
hard experience is worth a ton of soft soap.
Lever never tried niggers in England, so he
is a mere amateur at the game.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
s?
Tested
and
tried
and prescribed for thousands oi c ucs
of weak digestion and loss of health and
strength. The vast number of testi-
monials received from Medical men
testify to this. It is the finest Health
Food-Drink for all ages, made of
purest milk and cereals
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
is immensely popular in Australia.
It is ready for use and needs no
cooking and makes a most delicious
drink —giving health and strength to
all.
Of all Chemists
and Stores.
Get it at the Soda
Fountain.
Australia
has proved
it best
v
WHAT IS
D J
Golcryst is made from Epsom Salts,
Senna, Sarsaparilla, Dandelion, Liq-
uorice and Ginger. That seems a
good combination of useful medi-
cines for Constipation, Rheumatism,
Impure Rlood, Pimples, Boils,
Stomach and Liver Troubles.
So popular has this remedy become in
Australia that Golcryst may he regarded
as the National Aperient.
Packets 3d., 6d. & I|-
If you cannot obtain locally, write to
the Proprietors,
Rocke, Tompsitt 8 Co.,
MELBOURNE,
FOR A FREE SAMPLE PACKET. [1
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Suitlv—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
milE Best Stories written in Australia
J. annear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price 6d.
«fi^r
‘Tm an Old Hand
at the Game—
And you can take it from me that
Danjts’ is the place for the Tools in
our Line. You get the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Best, and
Always Get Satisfaction .in going
there.”
.SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO.
ELECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS. . 2/-
LLECTRICIANS’ INSULATED SCREW-
DRIVERS 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in ca'c, GGft., from 1/6
EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES K ROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
EMERY WHEELS, BRASS FITTINGS, TUBE
SOME BARGAINS IN LATHES.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND RICK IRONS.
AND PIPE OF ALL KINDS, etc., etc.
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liverpool Street, Sydney.
Also at 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Picture Showmen!
WHY NOT HAVE THE BEST?
w%
f
S/j
; KELVIN
GENERATING SET
The Silent
Empire Bioscope
ancle the
Kelvin Electric
Generating Sets
are unbeatable.
It is our business—and pleasure—to intro-
duce these machines to you.
The Empire is built of Steel —a Special
Steel —that will outlast any other Bio-
scope, no matter how continuously it is
used.
They are Fireproof, and Absolutely Reliable.
THE KELVIN SETS —Engine and Dynamo direct coupled—stand alone in the Picture World.
We have them of different capacities, to suit all requirements. They are on the one base fitted with
wheels. The Engine is Slow Speed, and the greatest quality it possesses is efficiency. Send for our
Booklet on these Machines.
We have a few Second-hand Outfits on Sale. Are you Interested?
JERDANS LTD.
393 George Street,
SYDNEY.
v
L&C.HARDTMUTM’S
KOH-I-NOOR’
Pocket Propelling Pencils
Made in a variety of charming styles, one of which is
here illustrated. This pencil has refills at the end.
Other styles, for writers who always like a sharp point
to their pencil, have a pencil sharpener at the end.
Others, again, have neither refills nor sharpener, and
consequently cost less. Each pencil is perfectly made —
“ a thing of beauty, and a joy for ever.” The lead, which,. w .
is “ Koh-i-noor,” does not slip or break under pressure,
and one twist of the fingers brings it into action.
Too simple and too well made to get out of order.
In various styles and sizes. 0/ Stationers, &c., everywhere,
L. & C. Hardtmuth, Ltd., London, England.
(Australia : 350, George Street, Sydney.) Write for List.
I"
HB
i-NOOR POCKET PENCIL
a
ji
jk\WM*T ?EED\HG at\rt
|| Wo Wote s\\o\M \>e w\;Wfc ft
seut qw Yeo^wes^..
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No, 1 I
From birth to 3 months. I
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months unwards.
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
The Edison
Dictating Machine
If the Edison Dictating Machine
did no more than save your steno-
grapher’s time and, by removing all
obstacles, increase her working
capacity without increasing her
effort, it would be well worth adopt-
ing for that reason alone.
It does all that, tut, beyond that
and far more important, it saves
your time and the time of your
highest-priced men-—it cuts the cost
where the cost counts most.
Write for a booklet which will tell
you just how these savings are
made.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
Dept. 8., 364*372 Kent Street, Sydney,
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF?!
YOU begin to
t * look old, with
those grey and
faded hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
Lockyer's
vv
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON'T LOOK OLD.
Scientific Instruments
For Every Trade, Industry and Profession.
Hydrometers,
for testing every liquid.
vc
Do you use Glass Instruments in your
calling? We manufacture and repair
them, and guarantee their perfect
accuracy.
If you wish special Instruments made
for any purpose, tell us your needs
and we will quote you for the neces-
sary design.
Our Booklet, illustrating Scientific
Glassware of every kind, is free. Shall
we send you a copy? It costs you
nothing, and will open your eyes to
the extent of our activities.
Dairy Factory Glassware and Testing
Apparatus a Specialty.
WILSON, NAFIS 8 CO. LTD.,
Wharf Street, BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
Williams’ Holder Top
Shaving Stick.
This is ihe good old
Shaving ( Stick known to
every gentleman
in Australia, but
now presented in
a new and attrac-
tive form, greatly
enhancing it s
convenience and
economy.
iScprioNS
IIIAMSC
at«.
Your chemist will be glad
to show it to you.
CHALLENGE.
MURPHY CHALLENGES THE WORLD
TO CURE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BLEEDING PILES.
Permanent Cure. Established 1891.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS, NON-
APERIENT,
have cured thousands of cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by
ANDREW MURPHY, WOY WOY,
• N.S.W. Sole Proprietor.
Price 3/- per box, pr a Course of 8
boxes £l. All postage free.
On Sale by all Druggists, Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the States.
BUNYIP FOREST
DEVIL!
SAVES POUNDS
While CLEARING.
You must clear your land to make money.
Prosperity follows the plough. Big trees,
huge boulders, ugly, stumps all give way to
the “BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, .hat roots
them out as though they were weeds. Simple
to work, economical and durable. Write:—
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, Victoria.
rrillE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.


Amusements.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
VALLECITA’S INDIAN LEOPARDS.
TUCKER, “The Singing Violinist” ; TWO BOBS
Original Entertainers (Last Nights).
A. DAUNTON SHAW TROUPE, “Australia’s Trick
Cyclists.’” GRAUS BROS.
GOLDEN ATHLONES, in Living, Golden Statuary.
ARTHUR STYAN & CO., present “THE SACRIFICE,”
by J. C. WILSON.
Ami a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
Prices: 5/-, 4/- and II-
T IVOLI THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSII.
THE FIVE MERRY YOUNGSTERS.
TOM DAVIS TRIO, Motoring in Midair.
DAUNTON SHAW TROUPE OF CYCLISTS.
WATERBURY BROS, and TENNEY,
The Big Three in Vaudeville.
SAM STERN, Character Comedian.
ROSE & ELLTS, Barrel Jumpers.
Plan at Allan’s. gy PR ICES—4s„ 3s„ 2s„ Is.
ARTISTS APPEARING AT
TIVOLI THEATRE, ADELAIDE
1 THIS WEEK.
ROSA ROMA, “The Gipsy Violinist.” W. TALLEUR
ANDREWS, “The Matinee Idol.” Miss VIVIEN
TALLEUR and FREDK. READE. AIMEE SMITH.
FIVE PETLEYS, HUXHAM COMEDY CO., VAL
VOUSDEN, THE ROYAL QUARTETTE, (a Breezy
Musical and Dancing Act), JACK SHIELDS (Eng-
lish Vocal Comedian and Inimitable Imitator).
Commencing March 28: Miss JOSEPHINE DAVIS,
“The Dainty American.”
TIVOLI THEATRE, PERTH.
* HARRY RTCKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Governing Director: HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Constant Changes of
WORLD’S STAR ARTISTS,
Supplemented by an Exclusive Film Service.
BOX PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
PRICES: 3/-, 21- and 1/-. NO EXTRA FEES.
IJE R MAJESTY’S, S Y I) N E Y.
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JULIUS KNIGHT AS NAPOLEON,
in an Entirely New, Spectacular Production of the
Ever Popular Play,
A ROYAL DIVORCE.
PLANS AT PALING’S.
NOW WE COME TO THE AMUSEMENTS—
THE GREAT WHITE CITY
1 RUSHCUTTERS BAY, SYDNEY.
A FAIRYLAND OF PALACES OF
PLEASURE.
THIS WEEK’S BIG FREE SHOWS—
THE CLARK-RAZZILLIANS,
Aerial Trapeze Artists.
THE 2 RAYLEIGHS,
Wire Walking Wonders.
WHITE CITY MILITARY BAND.
OPEN NIGHTLY, 6.30 TO 11 p.m.
SATS. 2 TO 11 p.m.
INCLUSIVE ADMISSION SIXPENCE.
General Manager: T. H. ESLICK, C.E.
Al> BLI'III TIIEAT It E. SYDNEY.
n Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S NEW DRAMATIC CO.,
In a Romantic Drama of English and Oriental Life,
with a Superb Musical Setting,
ALLAH’S ORCHARD.
POPULAR PRICES: 4/-, 3/-. 2/- and 1/-
DAI. A C E TIIEA T R E. SYDN E Y.
■ Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON
Presents his
BIG AMERICAN EXTRAVAGANZA,
THE LAND OF NOD.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/- Box Plan at Paling’s.
IVI ATIONAL AMPHITHEATRE,
Governing Director: BEN J. FULLER.
FULLER-BRENNAN VAUDEVILLE CIRCUIT.
FRESH ARTISTS BY EVERY AMERICAN AND
EUROPEAN MAIL.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
CLEMENT MAY, in interpretations of Dickens’s
JOSEPHINE GASSMAN and her Clever Piccaninnies.
PRICES: 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, 1/- Plan at Theatre.
The Little theatre, Sydney.
■ Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OF
MR. HUGH C. BUCKLER and MISS VIOLET PAGET
in DAVID GARRICK & THE MAN IN THE STREET.
MONDAY NEXT, MARCH 30,
Arnold Bennett’s remarkable play,
THE GREAT ADVENTURE.
Plan at Paling’s. Day Sale White Rose.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited
THE PICTURE BLOCK THEATRES,
* In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS,
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
QLACIARIUM AND OLYMPIA, SYDNEY.
COLOSSAL PEOPLE’S ENTERTAINMENTS BY
WEST’S PITH CUES, LTD.
“BEST OF ALL.”
FAMILY MATINEE—SATURDAY.
DE GROEN’S VICEREGAL ORCHESTRAS.
3d. to 2s. Plans at Nicholson’s (No Extra Fee).
g PENCE It’S LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
THE WORLD’S ~BEST PICTURES.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE—WEDNESDAY, AT 2.30.
A GREAT PROGRAMME, consisting of TOPICAL,
DRAMATIC, SCENIC and COMEDY SUBJECTS.
Prices: 1/6, 1/-& 6d. Plan at Paling’s & White Rose.
Birch & carroll
(Queensland).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Companv of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office : ROTHWELL CHAMBERS. BRISBANE.
Amusements.
IMPERIAL S ALON-DE-LUXE.
FASHIONABLE DANCING.
DIRECTION .. . BENDRODT & IRVING.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
The management wish to inform the public
that they will shortly open the Imperial as
a Fashionable Dancing Academy, and con-
duct it on even more exclusive and select
lines than characterised its operation as a
Rink.
EXCLUSIVE AND FASHIONABLE.
We will rigidly exclude anything that
might be termed, by discriminating persons,
as objectionable, whether in our clientele,
our management, or in the styles of dancing
we will allow.
REFINED AND SELECT.
All the popular dances, both old and new,
will be featured in our programmes, and the
most rigid propriety insisted upon at all
times. Only those dances which have re-
ceived the approval of polite society will be
presented to our patrons.
DANCING DE LUXE.
Our establishment will bear no similarity
whatever to anything of a like nature which
may have nreceded it. The building is
rapidly being converted into the most mag-
nificent “Palais de Danse” in the Southern
Hemisphere, and will contain the most lux-
urious and palatial ballroom in Australasia.
FULL PARTICULARS LATER.
’Phohe, 682 William Street.
IT D W A R 1) BRANSCOMBE’S
VIVE COMPANIES OF
DANDIES
Appear Nightly at
EDEN GAItDENS, MANLY.
CREMORNE GARDENS, BRISBANE.
ESPLANADE, ST. KILDA.
EXHIBITION GARDENS, ADELAIDE.
OLYMPIA, PERTH.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager: William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY Combination in
the Famous Story of Australian Life
ON OUR SELECTION.
POPULAR PRICES. PLANS AT ALLAN’S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEO. WILLOUGHBY LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 28.
Reappearance of the Irish Singing Comedian,
ALLEN DOONE,
in the Popular Play
BARRY OF BALLYMORE.
ADMISSION: SJ-, 3/-, 2J-, 1/- Plan at Pianola Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON. Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 28.
First Production in Melbourne of the Popular
REVUE,
COME OYER HERE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 28.
First Australian Production of the Sensational Drama,
MADAME X.
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/-; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
Melbourne repertory theatre co.
at the THEATRE ROYAL.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), MARCH 26.
GITHA SOWERBY’S STRIKING DRAMA.
RUTHERFORD & SON.
Box Plan at Pianola Co. and Booklovers
6/-, 3/- and 2/-.
OLYMPIA. OLYMPIA.
L Y M P I A. MELBOURNE.
(Just across Princes Bridge).
WHERE ARE TO BE SEEN THE UNRIVALLED
SPENCER’S PICTURES.
POPULAR PRICES FOR PERFECT PICTURES.
SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2.30.
EVERY NIGHT AT 8.
E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES THE best
OF ALL LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8. Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays,
and All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in thf. World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen
at WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
J . & N. XAIT announce the
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND TOUR OF
HARRY LAUDER,
Melbourne,,Princess’s Theatre, commencing APRIL 11.
Adelaide, commencing MAY 9.
Sydney, commencing MAY 30.
Brisbane, commencing JULY 6.
Auckland, commencing JULY 20.
Wellington, commencing JULY 27.
Christchurch, commencing AUGUST 3.
Dunedin, commencing AUGUST 19.
For particulars write to J. & N. TAIT,
The Auditorium, Melbourne,
Sole Directors of Harry Lauder’s Tour.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
• -
• v &
Rent Brewery, Sydney
CRACKAJACK Senior
BUILT
TO
BEAT
THE
BAND
“Crackajack Mouth Organs
MADE IN SIX STYLES.
Crackajack Professional. 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds, 1/-
„ Senior 20 „ 2 - Boss Cracker 20 „ 1 -
.. Junior 20 „ 1/6 Crackajack Cadet 20 „ 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Sole Agents: ALLAN & CO. Pty. Ltd.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Bendigo. Geelong,
■-•-'2
r.??
/©n
ltfJOl
$
PATRIOTISM
I - YOUB
Aim? c
Then have aJHOT
M at smoking
Referee
Tke Australian Tobacco.
l (
1
1
X
2/6 Jars, obtainable everywhere
Nurses Recommend
Solomon
Solution
Experience has taught them its wonderful
efficacy in the treatment of Rheumatism,
Rheumatic Gout, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Sprains
Swellings, Wounds, Cuts, Boils, Burns, and
many other common ailments. Will YOU try it?
Post Free 3/- from
SOLOMON COX & SON
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne. I
Marvel Leather Stitcher
Complete 1/6, ? a paid. oji
Anyone can sole boots,
mend harness, sew leather,
rubber, canvas, &c., equal
to the best tradesmen.
vb
FULL DIRECTIONS WITH EACH OUTFIT.
CMOS MFG. GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb
GENUINE DUTCH BULBS
Now is the Time for Planting Narcissus, Jon-
quils, Crocus, Tulips, Hyacinths.
Iris, Galanthus, Scillas, Oxalis An assorted
Dozen for 3/6« pay carriage, and with each
brder present free Ono WoBdiTW Ar®Bl
Cornu turn Bulb (Gigantic Lily), th* grows
without soil or water. Placed on a aheil «
duces an immense crimson dower- uloeMt
i twice yearly Directions for bulb growing!
i sent with each order. <#/•***** |
The llelea Ce.. tn Ktotetfc Su
'SS


KEEP*
SCALP CLEAN
IfllCUr
SOAP
m
With
CUTICURA
SOAP
Frequent shampoos with Cuticura
Soap, assisted when necessary by
gentle anointings with Cuticura
Ointment, afford the purest, sweet-
est and most economical method
of freeing the scalp of infants and
children from minor eruptions,
itchings and scalings and of es-
tablishing permanent hair health.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co..
Sydney, N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
asluggish liver. A few days’treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
di z z i n e s s.
Purely
table,
fail. <
vb
Carters
WITTLE
■ IVER
I PILLS.
Small Pill, small Dose, Small Price.
The GENUINE must bear signature
v
r
'//-■ -'
AN INTERESTING
EXPERIMENT.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey Hairs
make, just lay a piece of paper over each of the two
halves of the above portrait. The Grey “half” will
then be seen to have the appearance of 45 years of
age, whereas the other half looks only 30. Dr. B.
Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut Stain will make
all those years of difference if you are grey or prema-
turely grey. It is perfectly harmless, easy to apply,
and will quickly restore the Hair to the natural shade
of youth, or younger years.
Dr. 8. ALLEN S oj.s.a. >
Mexican WALNUT STAIN
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suitable
for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or Moustache.
CARBIDE.
For First-Class
Results use
Best
vcb
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL, LIMITED, 62
Pitt Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
PVGES FOR EVERYWOMAN is a fea-
ture of The Lone Hand no woman in
city or country should miss.
1914.
“Mushet” & “Double Mushet”
HIGH SPEED STEELS
oil
and
“MUSHET ”
HIGH SPEED
Twist DRILLS
MAKERS—
SAMUEL OSBORN & Co.
LIMITED,
CLYDE STEEL WORKS,
SHEFFIELD.
(Samuel Osborn & Co. Ltd. have again secured
the contract for the supnly of High Speed Steels to
the British Admiralty.)
SOLE AGENTS—
GIBSON, BATTLE & GO. LTD.
b
535 Kent St., Sydney, and 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
Telephone Nos., 1356 and 2663.
Steel Department—Tel. City 218.
t?
Texend
l BRACES
For Men who know
Quality, Comfort, Style
At first class shops ,
The rider
vbcvb
who likes a neat, compact saddle with ample provision
for comfort will appreciate our model 8302. It is
clean-cut and trim in appearance, gives a low riding posi-
tion, and the stranded springs and four-wire framing yield
a pleasing resiliency sufficient to absorb all road shocks.
Naturally, being a Brooks, it is scientifically shaped and
beautifully made. An extremely pretty and comfortable
saddle. We also make a model 8302 L for ladies.
BROOKS
OF ALL
DEALERS
<•
99
UiSSH^j
Socks and
Stockings.
To ensure having the best socks and stockings it is
possible to buy, insist on having J&ZJO92T There
iare no hose in the world so good, because no
other have the all-wool qualities, the unshrinkableness
and the soft silkiness of
Perfectly knitted from the best Australasian wools,
they fit snugly and comfortably. They are dyed with
fast hygienic dyes, and they carry with them the
1 makers' guarantee to replace any pair that shrinks. /
"&UQV& Socks and Stockings are made
1 ' in all styles and prices for men,
ladies and children. If your dealer does
} not stock them insist upon his getting them
for you.
In case of difficulty, write
Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
A a 10
J l
-2
2
_ y,
p //
l\
5 ,V >
- 2
<i> >
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Tha Original anti Only Ganulnm
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each |
bottle.
80LB BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I*. 2/S ft 4/e.
vb
Made in England.
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectually
cuts short all
attacks •>
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Beat Medlolne far
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
*he oough of BROHCHITIS and
CONSUMPTIOH.
Acta Ilka ■ /Charm In
DIARRHCEA and simple DYSENTERY.
The Inky Way.
The other morning Sydney Telegraph gave pro-
minence to the statement of its pet protege, Charles
Gregory Wade, that “Australians were quite as
brainy as any other people in the world, and the
effort should be made to keep their own men with
them always.” Meanwhile the Telegraph was
eagerly awaiting an imported editor from London to
take the place of Dr. Ward, who is about to retire
from the chair.
“Hamer” : The birth of the Labor daily has again
been put off, this time till November next. All was
in readiness for the event, barring the cash, and
the organisers realise that the cash proposition is a
big one. The A.W.U. members have decided on
another 10s. levy all round, and if the rest of the
unions don’t do likewise, there will be profound
grief, also surprise, in militant Labor circles. The
idea of an evening daily has been abandoned. The
new venture will arrive with the metropolitan milk,
or it will not arrive at all.
“Bullaganang”: I know what I’m going to do
when the Japs fall upon us in the North. I’m going
to cover my vulnerable parts with a copy of the
Dalby (Q.) Leader. Have a look at this:—
“Friday is a particularly busy day for the local
newspapers, as the Court is held regularly on that
day, and once every six weeks the Wambo Shire
Council meeting. Then again it is our publishing
day and more often than not it is, quite impossible
for us to get all the day’s proceedings in the one
issue. Might we suggest that the necessary action
be taken to have the Court held on some more con-
venient day ?”
What kind of shrapnel would be likely to penetrate
that ?
“Old Reporter”: The old Melbourne Police Court
in Swanston-street, which was like a small stone store
compared with the place just opened in Latrobe and
Russell streets, was a sort of club away in the ’6o’s
and ’7o’s of last century. The Rainbow Hotel on
the opposite corner of Little Oollins-street was the
bar-room, to which all hands but one —William
Handheld Whelan —adjourned when the business of
the . court was . over. Those were the. days when E. P.
Sturt and F. Call and Prendergast Haekett were
Police Magistrates, and Sergeant Pewtress the court
officer. Haekett took the civil side. One of the
bright spirits in the press box was William Lewis
O’Hea, of the Argus, who sometimes wrote things
worthy of Dickens. But the Argus affected an irri-
tating gravity, and O’Hea’s exuberance was frequently
snuffed out. Between “Billy” and Sergeant Pewtress,
who was a Londoner, but ought to have been born
in Tipperary, and the Irish policeman who kept the
door of the police van, the “parlor” of the Rain-
bow heard some wondrous yarns.
Earl Grey speaks sympathetically of one man in
London who told him that he became a member of
the Imperial Institute because it was a place where
he could always get hold of The Bulletin.
THANKSGIVING SERVICE FOR THE LATEST
IMPORTED BLESSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A man of wide knowledge, great accurapy, sound
judgment, and uncommon powers of work. I regret
his departure sincerely.”— John Walters, chairman of
directors of the Times (London), on Sydney Tele-
graph's new imported editor.
“I deeply regret that you should be leaving the
Times.” — G. E. Buckle, retired Editor of that paper.
Choir of Australians:
With grateful tears our eyes are dim.
Lord, give us strength to bear him !
But if they thought so much of him,
O Lord, how could they spare himf
“These quotations could be added to, but they
suffice to indicate the place which Mr. Braham has
gained in the esteem of well-known English journalists
and public men.” — Proud solo hurst by Sydney Tele-
graph, which imported him.
Chorus of Telegraph Directors:
The lily needs but little paint;
A gallon is enough.
(A show of dignified restraint
Assists a column puff).
“If I went out to Australia it would be in the hope
and with the intention of remaining permanently and
becoming an Australian.” — The prodigy himself
Sings ;
But, in spite of all temptations,
To belong to other nations,
I resisted splendid-lee,
Till I got a humble offer from the simple old
D.T.!” (Solo dance.)
Choir of Australians:
Though he found it hard all his tics to sever,
He hopes to Heaven he’ll stay for ever —
This London stranger so nice and tame.
(Perhaps his friends are hoping the same !)
(lively dance.)
N.S.W.
CAPTAIN COOK
(Discoverer of Australia,
for the Sydney Telegraph.,)
THE NEWER JOURNALISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A fire broke out in a grocer’s shop owned and
occupied by Mrs. Margaret Olson, at 59 Wortley-
street, Balmain, early this morning. The outbreak
was marked by a sensational rescue by Mr. Andrew
Olson, who carried his mother through a .
• —Evening paper.
Too long in phrases cut and dried
To be sensational we’ve tried —
To galvanise the reader’s hair
With tales of fire and flood and air.
We’ve toiled with words to reproduce
The dreadful scenes, but what’s the use
When by suggestion we can gain
Effects without the slightest strain.
“Last night, some passers-by observed
Flamgs issuing from 53
Brown-street. The owner was unnerved,
On waking ’midst a raging sea
Of flames. But there was just one hope.
He fastened to the bed a sheet,
And, sliding down his snowy rope,
He landed safely in the .”
“While passing by a waterhole
A workman heard a cry for help.
In sudden haste he blessed his soul,
And gave a lusty, answering yelp.
But, when he reached the clayhole’s brim,
He saw but bubbles on the pool.
And just because he couldn’t swim,
He called himself! ! ? ! ! t”
“The residents of ?? street
Were last night when heard
A loud explosion x x x feet,
Police regard corpse %% — absurd.
Rain of fragments fell;
Widow heard to wildly shriek,
‘Oh, !! ! xx Hell!’
Fined ten shillings or a week.”
N.S.W.
FUTURIST JOURNALIST.


SPORTING RIFLES
of Reliability and Accuracy.
“WINCHESTER,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Him Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, rubber heel plate, * •
weight 2flb. /OS. DO.
The .above Rifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight,
Postage—l/G N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
211-
THE MAINE
f?/Fle
tSheu/ing Pifle Apart
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Him Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. The action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simple, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight j ...
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Rifle—l/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
126
151-
GUN and
RIFLE
REPAIRS
a Speciality.
Sadforwr p f { ce LJjf
of Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition, etc.
Post Free, Anywhere.
vb
Winchester Repeating Rifle,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight :
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges.
Postage-2/- N.S.W., 3/8 Inter-State.
1906 Model,
grip, slide action,
44-
--Tv
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal, 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over all
3S L ,in., weight 3flb., handles short or
long cartridges, ■<O
Postage—l/6 N.S.W., 2/8 Inter-State.
Stevens' “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F., or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action,’ open front and rear
sights, weight #lb. Postage-1/9 N.S.W.. 3/2 Inter-State. 22j6 .
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear 35/-
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each extra. '
cvb
cvb
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37i-in., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 fnter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W.
City Depot: 119 King 1 Street, Sydney;
and at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s Eng-lish Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dogs Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
WILL ANDRADE for MAGIC.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
3/6.
New 1912 Edition,
Enlarged, 32 Extra
Plates, illustrating
Female Anato my,
handsome Cloth Cover,
5/- Post Free.
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Superb Virility of Man-
hood, by Bernard Mac-
fadden; simple home
methods for curing
weaknesses of men, 5/4 ;
Macfadden’s Sweethearts
for Life; life’s greatest
pleasure secured by ob-
serving highest human
instincts, 5/4 ; Macfad-
den’s Building Vital
Power, 5/4; Health,
Beauty, Sexuality, 6/4 ;
Strength from Eating,
5/4 ; Macfadden’s Devel-
oping Muscular Power,
5/4; Science of Muscu-
lar Development, 5/4 :
Superb Womanhood,
5/4; Macfadden's Physi-
cal Culture v. Consump-
tion, and Value of Air in
Strength-building, com-
plete, 2/2. AND ANY
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
Marvellously simple ! Simply Marvellous !
a
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Com-
plete with Full In-
structions (enabling
the merest amateur
to perform it), 1/6;
posted, 2/-
T w o - from -Five
Card Trick. Another
startler, introducing
something quite new
in magic. Price 6d. ;
post free, Bd.
Tub Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
BOOK YOU WANT. Mention The Bulletin.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
catalogues 2 01 BOURKE STREET; MELBOURNE .
PUMPS WATER
DAY AND NIGHT
ADTOMATICALLY.
GET OUR FREE TRIAL
OFFER.
Low in first cost, easy to instal, no expense to operate, any
capacity desired for Country Homes, Farms, Dairies,
Gardens, Irrigation, Town Plants, Railroad Tanks, etc.
RIFE HYDRAULIC RAMS
RAISE WATER 30 FEET for EVERY FOOT OF FALL
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Over 7000 in use.
If there is a stream, spring or pond within a mile—
WRITE FOR FREE PLANS and BOOK.
2613 Trinity Bldg. RIFE ENGINE CO. New York.
m
m
-■.•I
Ju- V.J/
FARQUHAR’S
Agricultural Machines
are the most economical because the first cost is
the only cost, and as quality is the prime factor
in their construction they give the longest and
best service, and eventually prove themselves
the least expensive.
We manufacture Engines, Boilers, Traction
Engines, Saw Mills, Horse Powers, Plows,
Harrows, Cultivators, Corn Planters,
Cotton Planters, Grain Drills, Potato
Diggers, Corn Shellers, Store Trucks, etc.
Write for Free Illustrated Catalogues.
Correspondence in all languages.
Cable Address: “FENANKLE,” New York.
EG
A. B. FARQUHAR & GO.,
Cotton Exchange Building,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is Id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, l/G.
»1 oys of Life, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyhook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-.
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, ls6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life.
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple pests for minerals),
3s Gd. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is : post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Nor Guilty (Blatch-
, ford),.9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor., Gd. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train fop. all Sports, Is 3d! Diseases of Horses,
is 3d., Theory of Value, ls6d. French Polishing
»nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught.' 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Gd. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is Gd.
&
%
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are;devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANT address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
WT- bookseller to THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSV FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-'LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITL, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave is; post Is Sd. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River. 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Tiie White slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits. Is ' po.st
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
os 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ns.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
oth'-rs, all at 2s 6d posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes. 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CA>'
BE GOT FROM THIS ADVT.
Write for my....
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTT.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Gauds, Is. Saitiio, genuine.
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dit. Milford's Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 64.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete.
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions ok tiik
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Sscrkt
History Court or England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is
Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed, Key to ad
Degrees, Hew Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post-
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Hk' l '
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Cheyassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Od posted. Wonderful Budget boNu
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post fire.
Bknnarr Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. iooak»
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d, Nervousness ax®
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Largb ls-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay o ana a
•mineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is -d. dyna-
mos and Electric Mo tors, Is 2d. Moore’s Lniversa,
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, clou,
bound. 1 0s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), ls 6d posted. The Age of Reason by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGLE TO-DAI.


Do Your Meals Fit
Do you feel snug and comfortable around
your waistline after a hearty meal ?
Did your last meal taste deliciously good
to you, and did you eat all you wanted?
Could you have patted your rotundity in
glee and felt proud of your appetite and
of your good, strong stomach? Do you
feel rosy now because your last meal
gave you no inconvenience whatever? If
not, you have Dyspepsia in some form,
and probably never realised it.
If you have the least trouble in your
stomach after eating, no matter how
little or how much you eat, there is
trouble brewing, and you must correct
it at once.
Most all stomach troubles come from
poor, weak, scanty gastric juice, that
precious liquid which ought to turn your
food into rich, red blood.
If you have Nausea, your gastric juice is
weak. If you have sour risings or belcli-
ings, your food is fomenting; your gas-
tric juice is weak. If you have loss of
appetite, your gastric juice is weak. If
you have a bloaty feeling of aversion to
food, your gastric juice is weak.
You need something in your stomach to
supply the gastric juice which is scanty,
and to give power to the weak gastric
juice.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules do this
very thing.
Now, think, one grain of one of the in-
gredients of these wonderful little tab-
ules digests 3000 grains of food. They
are several times more powerful than the
gastric juice in a good, strong, powerful
stomach. They actually digest your food
for you. Besides, they increase the flow
of gastric juice—just what you need to
get all the good possible out of every-
thing you eat. You will never have that
“lump of lead” in your stomach nor any
other stomach trouble after taking Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules. Then every-
thing you cat will be digested; they will
give you strength, vim, energy and a
rosy dispositon. You’ll feel good all
round your waist line after every meal,
and they will make you feel good all
over.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules will
make you feel happy after eating a good,
hearty meal. Take one or two after eat-
ing. You’ll feel line, then your meals
will fit, no matter what or when you eat.
You should always have a tin of Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules on your din-
ing-table. They will make you get all
the good possible out of everything you
eat, and you’ll enjoy it.
Make Your Stomach Strong 8 Healthy
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere at 1/6 per tin of 36 Tabules,
and 2/6 per tin of SO Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a good, square meal, and then take
the Tabules according to directions, and note the result. You will forget all about
it if you are not careful, for there will be No Pain or disturbance, and the food will
be Digested just as it used to be when your Stomach was Well and Strong. Fur-
thermore, your stomach will soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them,
just as thousands upon thousands of other stomachs have been, by the sole and
exclusive use of Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
®»SfIEtDONS
Price
I
1
m
A
C?
Free
Play
Most Famous Sliding Cord >
Brace in the World
Sold Everywhere
21- \
Guaranteed
Get the Genuine
DUPLEX
Mast be Stamped
on Buckle .
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES'
SHEETINGS for
durability
When Buying see HORROCKSES’ name on Face-plait,
and decline all substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL THE GREAT EXHIBITIONS. 2
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound; containing upwards of Three
hundred of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full
Buxletin size- Price, 21s.
The Sentimental Bloke and the
Pilot Cove.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YOUNG friend,” ’e ses Young
friend! Well, spare me days!
Yell’d think I wus ’is own white-
’eded boy—
The queer ole finger, wif ’is gentle ways.
“Young friend,” ’e ses, “I wisht yell both
great joy.”
The langwidge that them parson blokes
imploy
Fair tickles me. The way ’e bleats an’
brays!
“Young friend,” ’e ses.
“Young friend,” ’e ses....Yes, my Doreen
an’ me
W e’re gettin’ ’itched, all straight an’ on
the square.
Fer when I torks about the registry—
O ’oly wars! yeh should ’a’ seen ’er stare!
“The registryV” she ses. “I wouldn’t
dare !
I know a clergyman we’ll go an’ 5ee.”....
“Young friend,” ’e ses.
“Young friend.” ’e ses. An’ then ’e chats
me straight,
An’ spouts of death, an’ ’ell, an’ mortal
sins.
“You reekernize this step you contemplate
Is grave?” ’e ses. An’ I jist stall’s an’
grins ;
Fer when I chips, Doreen she kicks me
shins.
"Yes, very ’oly is the married state,
Young friend,” ’e ses.
’’Young friend,” ’e ses. An’ then ’e mags a
lot
~ 3°oty an’ the spiritchuil life,
To w’ich I didn’t tumble worth a jot.
“Fin sure,” ’e ses, “as you will ’ave a wife
Oo’ll ’ave a noble infl’ince on yer life,
“Oo is ’er gardjin?” I ses. “’Er ole pot.”
“Young friend !” ’e ses.
“Young friend,” ’e ses, “Oh. fix yer thorts on
’igh !
Orl mar ridges is registered up there.
An’ you must cleave unto ’er till yeh die,
An’ cherish ’er wif love an’ tender care.
E’en in the days w’en she’s no longer fair
Sues still yer wife,” ’e ses. “Ribuck,” ses I.
“ Young friend!” ’e ses.
“Young friend,” ’e ses —I ses, “Now, listen
’ere ;
This isn't one o’ them impetchus leaps.
ain’t no tart a 'undrcdth part so dear
As ’er. She ’as me ’art an’ soul fer keeps!”
An then Doreen, she turns away an’
weeps.
r -ut ’e jist smiles. “Yer deep in love, ’tis
clear.
Young friend,” ’e ses.
Young friend,” ’e ses —An’ tears wus in ’is
eyes—
“ Strive ’ard. Fer many, many years I’ve
lived,
An’ I kin but recall wif tears an’ sighs
The lives of some I’ve seen in marridge
gived.”
My Gawd!” I ses. “I’ll strive as no
bloke strived !
Fer don’t I know I’ve copped a bonzer
prize ?”
“Young friend !” ’e ses.
“Young friend,” ’e ses. An’, in ’is gentle
way,
H ’E pats the shoulder of my dear Doreen.
I ve solem’ized grand weddin’s in me day,
But ’ere’s the sweetest little maid I've
seen.
She’s fit fer any man, to be ’is queen ;
An’ you’re more forchinit than you kin say,
Young friend,” ’e ses.
“Young friend,” ’e ses....A queer ole pilot
bloke
T Wif silver ’air. The gentle way ’e dealt
a*t er; the soft an’ kindly way ’e spoke
To my Doreen ’ud make a statelier melt;
I tell yeh. square ’n’ all. I sorter felt
-a kiddish kind o’ feelin’ like I’d choke. . . .
“Young friend,” ’e ses.
Young friend.” ’e ses, “you two, on Choos-
d’y week,
Is to be joined in very ’oly bonds.
To break them vows I ’opes yeh’ll never
seek ;
Fer I could curse them ’usbands ’oo ab-
sconds !”
u l° ve ’ er till I snuff it!” I responds.
Ah, that's tfc-a way I likes to ’ear yeh speak,
Young friend,” ’e ses.
“Young friend !” ’e ses—an’ then me ’and ’e
grips—
“l wisht yeh luck, you an’ yer lady fair.
Sweet maid.” An’ sof’ly, wif ’is finger-tips.
’E takes an’ strokes me diner’s shinin’
’air.
An’ when I seen ’er standin’ blushin’ there
I turns an’ kisses ’er. fair on the lips.
“Young friend !” ’e ses.
VICTORIA.
C. J. DENNIS.
The Bloques of Elysium.
THE APPEARANCE OF EVIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIE President of our bachelor estab-
lishment was a man of affliction,
being alternately consumed with fiery
energy or overcome with indolence. Pre-
sumably the periods of inactivity were due
to exhausted nature settling down to recover
from the orgies of work in which the Presi-
dent revelled while feeling good. While he
Vas lazing Elysium was certainly more like
its name than when he was in a rushing
tnood: for just as he could infect us with
the dolce far nicnte snirit while he was re-
poseful, so did he instil into us some of his
superabundant energy. I have often won-
dered to whose immortal account the lan-
guage he used in doing it will be charged
The President loved roses and asphodels
and he made our home a paradise of them'
ft was in the up-keep of that garden he
fflade us work, and thereby kept our bodies
healthy while he lost his own soul.
* * * *
It was Sunday morning., and the only
Sound of toil in Elysium was the hum of
innumerable, bees among the roses. Under
the shade of tkd pepperwuod tree the Babe
played with thd toys we had bought her the
previous day ; and on the nearby lounge old
jLihys smoked and read, A few feet away
Little Joe, tiie Auvite, was busy preparing a
piece of oak for photographic purposes, hav-
ing lately taken to printing his master-
pieces on wood. The rest of the Honorable
Order of Bloques were scattered about the
lounges on Hie deep verandah.
the Tresideut appeared among
the roses, snipping olf superfluous buds and
blowing clouds of tobacco smoke over the
aphis-infested twigs, and in between cursing
the order for a lot of lazy loons. The roses,
he emphasised, were only half attended to.
As he listened to the President's ravings the
ghost of a smile fatted over the grizzled face
of the Welshman, and he winked solemnly
at the Hebrew.
Blowing a great cloud of smoke Rhys
beckoned the President to the seat, and when
the latter was seated the face of Rhys as-
sumed a dour, wowseristic expression.
The President looked at him with large, dog-
like eyes, and then as he refilled his pipe
he said softly :
“There’s something wrong in the State of
Denmark, eh? (Jut with it, old man!”
“You know, President, every one of us
in this place, excepting Cross, is a fugitive
from matrimony. And yet, what do we
find? Almost every night there are ladies
here, squatted round the verandahs, strum-
ming ac the piano, lifting their voices over
the whole neighborhood; and, hang me, if,
when 1 came home last night, 1 didn’t find
one of our young dogs on this very seat, with
a girl on his knee.”
“O Lord!” gasped the President, horror-
stricken. “They always play up like this
when I go working back.”
“Yes; but, listen, there’s worse still. When
Carrie was bringing in some, syphons one of
them met her in tin; hall and kissed her—■
kissed her right oil the mouth, too. Wliat
do you think of that now? Joe can bear
me out.”
The President wiped the moisture from
his big, shaggy head, and thought very hard.
“I’ll call a meeting of the Board!” he
said, with sudden decision. “I’ll call it
right now. I was going down to do some
work, but I must jump on this business
first. Come along.”
Three minutes later they were assembled
in the dining-room, the President in the
chair, Rhys with the Babe on his knee.
“Rhys, I don’t think Babe ought to hear
this. In after years she might recall some
word, some sentence; don’t you think !”
Rhys bowed acquiescence, and carrying the
infant to the door suggested she give Tow-
ser, the terrier, an early lunch. Then they,
heard the patter of little feet down the hall,
and the door dosed softly. As Rhys resumed
his seat the President rose.
“Bloques, 1 have called you together to
deal with a grave danger. I am sure we
have all been very lumpy here,” lie said,
shaking his great, shaggy head; “although
all of us, except bloque Cross, have tried
all other modes of life and found them in-
sufficient for happiness. We have drained
the wine of married life and found the dregs
bitter. This place is a refuge from the
tyranny of woman, either as a wife or hash-
tower queen. Let us keep it such.”
He was interrupted by applause; and
when the noise had subsided he resumed: —
“As you all know, I am a broad-minded
man ; but I am experienced enough to see
the danger coming. I can smell a rat a long
way off. To come to the point, there are
too many ladies calling here. Why they
come I’ll say nothing about. But lam sure
that no good will result from their visits.
If you ask ladies here, or encourage them to
come, and then, as I am credibly informed
some of you do, nurse them on the seats in
the garden, alone, they will begin to think
you are making love. The next thing, sure
as eggs, will be breaeh-of-promis.e actions,
and we’ll all be disgraced. Then again, one
of you, I don’t know which one and I don’t,
want to know, was guilty of the unpardon-
able sin of kissing our housekeeper, and right
on the mouth, too. Now I don’t want to
preach to you—but mind, it’s dangerous.
In an establishment like this it is essential
that we should avoid even the appearance
of evil. That’s all.”
Then he closed the meeting and hurried
off to the tram.
“I wonder if he had his tongue in his
cheek?” said Cross.
“Not on your life,” said Rhys. “He’s in
deadly earnest. And bv cst. David, he’s
right. He’s afraid of women because lie’s
got sense. There are some men in this
house who are not afraid of them because
they don’t know. But they will later on.”
Then Rhys went oack to the pepperwood
tree.
* * *
Usually the President stuck to one drink,
to wit, whisky. He got off the tram at King-
street and made for the club, feeling that
one would lioln to keep him up. On his way
he ran into Morvern. the leader writer, and
they entered the club together. There they
struck the rest of the bunch, with the re-
sult that the President was cajoled into
taking what he called “striped drinks,” and
mixed doses of plain whisky with gin slings
and mint juleps. The result was terrific.
He called for more drinks again and again,
and began to coruscate. Suddenly he real-
ised it was time to start back to Elysium
for lunch.
Rhys was at the head of the table carv-
ing, when little Joe. the Canaanite, looked
out through the window and suddenly ejacu-
lated that the President was “loaded.” The
startled bloques watched the President
climb over the gate, for the fun of it appar-
ently. and go out of his way to climb over
all the seats between the street and the
house. At the door he met Carrie, and seiz-
ing her by the waist and shoulder, waltzed
gravely down the hall into the dining-room,
where the Order regarded him with a dazed
and pained expression.
The President sat down and commenced
to coruscate some more, and poured oil on
the flame of his exuberance bv drinking
dinner ale. He ate his food quicklv. leaned
back and spread himself mightily, and be-
tween courses gave imitations of popular
entertainers he had heard and bosses he
had worked under. He wound up a brilliant
outbreak with a reproduction of the lecture
the Judge gave him when his wife secured
her divorce.
(Continued on next page.'


■
1
DAILY MISHAPS
MAKE ZAM-BUK A DAILY NEED.
ACCIDENTS will happen in the best-regulated
families. Healthy youngsters seem to be
always “in the wars.” Housework abounds
with mishaps for busy wives and harassed mothers-
and the bread-winner often returns from work
with a more or less serious injury. Just what
every home needs is Zam-Buk. A not and a
bandage on a handy shelf, where they'are ham'"
for instant use, save untold pain, time and mon \
When the little one runs in from his play with
a wry face, and smarting, dirt-filled scrape on hi-;
knee, simply wash the part and smear with Zan
Buk. When father cuts or scrapes his hand, the
hawly pot of Zam-Buk again meets the emergen: v,
and the housewife or mother continually finds it,
a real friend for the burns she receives while ((jok-
ing, the scalds of a washing day, or the knocks
etc., of d-.isting. Children like Zam-Buk because
it is cooling, soothing and pleasant. Their elders
value it still more highly because it is also anti-
septic and a powerful germicide, preventing poison-
ing, festering, and disease; because it is a natural
skin repairer, and because it is good for the
tenderest skin. Daily mishaps make Zam-Buk a
daily need—therefore, keep Zam-Buk handy.
MAN’S POISONED
HAND HEALED.
Mr. J. Vaughan, of 14
Sorrie Street, Balmain,
Sydney, says:—“l sustained a
severe knock on the back of my
left hand. Some dirt got into
the wound, causing my hand to
swell and inflammation to set
in. The pain was terrible.
Being recommended to try Zam-
Buk, I obtained a supply, and,
after bathing the wound, applied
this balm twice daily. In this
way blood-poison was averted,
the inflammation was allayed,!
and the pain arrested. Now
my hand is well once again.”
SCALD MADE
FLESH RED-RAW.
Mrs. G. Green, of 57
Thomas Street, Camper-
down, Sydney, says:—“My
little son John upset a kettle'of
boiling water over himself, and
was nearly scalded to death.
The flesh presented a red, raw
appearance. We all expected
he would succumb to the fear-
ful injuries, and it is a miracle
that he is alive to-day. For
nine months he was in terrible
agony. The sores from the
scald would not heal. After
being attended to at the hospi-
tal, the doctor recommended a
home treatment of Zam-Biik.
We purchased a supply and con-
tinued with Zam-Buk until the
wounds were completely healed.”
THE EVEB-BEAPY HOME HEALER.
A golden rule for every home
is Keep Zam-Buk Always
Handy. Don’t run risks by
depending upon common
ointments and salves, the
coarseness of which is a posi-
tive danger. There is only
one Zam-Buk, and it is sold
by all chemists and stores
at 1/6 and 3/6 per pot.
am
Chamberlain's
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy.
This is the best medicine procurable for bowel complaint in all its forms. It
relieves pain in the stomach, dysentery, diarrhoea and colic. It has been the means
of saving more pain and suffering than any other known remedy. Thousands of
mothers in all parts of the world have given it to their children and now sing its
praises. This medicine is especially valuable in checking Diarrhoea which nearly
always attacks the babies when teething. One dose will relieve pains in the stomach
and it seldom takes more than three or four doses to stop a severe attack of Diarrhoea.
Always take Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy at the first unusual
looseness of the bowels. There is no class of ailments that attack the system quicker
than bowel complaints and when a medicine is wanted it is wanted quickly. f What
has made Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy so popular is that the relief
is just as quick. It is a medicine that should be kept in the home at all times and we
advise you to procure a bottle at once, for it will save trouble later on and perhaps be
the means of saving a life.
r THIS
I
J MY
BILIOUS
L DAY
3
mi
r*
Your head aches, you feel dull and
generally miserable. Perhaps you are
bilious. Your system needs cleansing.
Take Chamberlain’s Tablets and the work
is done. They are easy to take, prompt
and pleasant in action.
Just hereabouts Rhys rose and begged his
old friend not to corrupt the minds of their
younger members and weaker brothers by
discussing such questionable subjects as the
vagaries of hardened old divorce judges—
men who, though no doubt necessary, like
slaughtermen, should never be mentioned in
refined homes. In fact, he thought it always
better in a home such as theirs to avoid
the discussion of evil.
An hour later the President arrived at his
office and made the discovery that he had
come away without his key. He knocked in
the vain hope some other member of the
staff might be inside. But his knocking re-
verberated through an empty building.
What was to be done: To go back for the
key would occupy the best part of an hour
and would break up the afternoon ; besides
which the President felt that if he did not
get on to paper quickly some of the mag-
nificent ideas that were chasing one another
through his mind, they would assuredly
escape. So it was imperative that he get in
somehow. To burst the lock was impos-
sible. The ground floor windows were
covered with a huge steel shutter. He
glanced at the next floor. A ledge ran
along the line of the floor, and if he could
only reach it he could walk along and reach
one of the windows. And there was a
verandah to the next building. It was easy
if he could only get on to that verandah.
He turned round and found himself face
to face with what was (bviously a young
immigrant, one of those stalwart youths
London now sends out in such numbers.
He slipped half a crown into the youthful
hand.
“Give us a leg up that verandah post, I
want to get into that building!” he said,
with his most winning smile.
The young immigrant looked at him a
moment, and then glancing up and down
the street, which happened for the moment
to be quite empty, he gave the leg up. The
President scrambled on to the verandah
roof. Next moment he had stepped daintily
on to the ledge, opened the window and
passed through. He looked down to wave a
farewell and noticed that the immigrant
was standing on the kerb with his hands
behind his back; and his hands were opening
and shutting feverishly. It struck the Pre-
sident as a curious mannerism. Then, sud-
denly, the immigrant strolled off and a
policeman lurched past.
For two solid hours the President worked
like a Trojan. Then he lit his pipe and
took a small tot to keep him up. While he
enjoyed a few whiffs he packed some maga-
zines and a Science Quarterly belonging
to Rhys into a parcel to take home with him.
When he stepped out of the front door
with a parcel of magazines under his arm
the street was filled with the violet haze of a
Sydney evening, through which the lights
glowed goldenly. The tram-cars were bright
with the hats and frocks of women and
girls returning from Harbor excursions.
Couples were sauntering along arm in arm
loaded with ferns and bush-flowers; and
propped against the verandah-post he had
climbed some hours before was the immi-
grant.
“ ’Struth, that’s a mighty small swag,”
gasped the late helner as he hauled the
President into the more open roadw'ay clear
of the crowd. “Is it stones or splosh? Wot
a nell of a time you’ve bin —thort you’d
been pinched. Where we goin’?”
“What the devil are you talking about,
man?” said the amazed President. “You
didn’t think I was a burglar, did you?”
“Well, when a man arsks yer to put him
through th’ bloomin’ winder, and then you
stay all afternoon to watch for ther slops,
yer don’t s’pect ’im of bein’ a friend of ther
family!”
“But, you mad ass, I work there. I had
forgotten my key, and had to get in to do
some work.”
“What, they locks yer out, an’ you breaks
in to do work for ’em! Spare me dyes, what
sort of a country ’ave I come to! Oh, I sye,
dicken!”
“Dicken the devil,” said the, President
swinging himself on to a crawling tramcar,
and sitting down to find the immigrant
beside him.
“Here, what the devil do you want?”
The immigrant tapped the parcel of maga-
zines. “Yer can’t tickle me with that there
tale, mister!”
“Very well, take it —take it all, and much
good may it do you,” and he banged the
parcel on the stranger’s knees. He clutched
it, and then fell out of the tram and dis-
appeared in the crowd.
The President decided to say nothing to
the fellows at home, as it began to strike
him that the immigrant was quite justified
in making the mistake. It seemed to him
he had not only failed to avoid the appear-
ance of evil, but had embracod it with both
hands and feet. Least said the better.
* * * *
“By the way, President, what about my
Science Quarterly? Hid you bring it
home?” said Rhys suddenly as he rose from
the tea-table.
“Great Scott! Ido believe I left it in
the tram.” 1
“Oh, no matter; it’s got my flume and
address in, and it will go to' the lost pro-
perty office all right. That is unless someone
unusual picks it ur>.”
Carrie put her head inside the door and
informed Mr. Rhvs a gentleman wished to
speak to him, and privately.
Rhys left the room, and two minutes
later returned with the lost Quarterly in
his hand.
“I say, President, come here. What have
you been up to? Here’s a pretty kettle of
fish.”
The President rose. A feeling of impend-
ing disaster hit him in the middle of the
stomach. Outside, in the hall, he found an
inspector of, police, two detectives and the
immigrant.
“That’s him, gents!” said the immigrant,
excitedly. “That’s the very bloke!”
“This man says he saw you climb a vernn-
dah-nost, and walk along the ledge of the
first floor, ana break into an office through
a window. Being a stranger he can’t find
his way back to where the office is situated,
and he was too excited to notice the name
on the plate. He followed you into a tram-
car, and when you got out you left this
parcel. It contains magazines and my
Science Quarterly, and the last named
having my name in it, they thought it might
have been my office that was broken into.
But as I have no office quite im-
possible.”
The President glared helplessly at the
immigrant. If looks could have inflicted
sudden paralysis that immigrant had never
moved again. Here the whole story of his
escapade was out, and every bloke in Ely-
sium would be advising him to avoid, for
the future, the appearance of burglary.
As briefly as he could, the President ex-
plained what had happened, and how the
immigrant had helped him up the verandah-
post, and then demanded a share of the
swag; all of which that vociferous young
man luridly denied.
Next minute he found himself under arrest.
The President was requested to accompany
the party, and when his story was discovered
to be correct his accomplice was carefully
lumbered on a number of charges, and the
President allowed to return home, though
the police still seemed sceptical.
When the President arrived home he found
Rhys waiting up for him, and everybody
else out of sight. Over a whisky and soda,
Rhys explained that there had been a meet-
ing of the Board, and it had been decided
that no references were to be made to the
unfortunate occurrence.
The President filled his pockets with
glasses, and then with a bottle in one
hand and a syphon in the other he made a
pilgrimage round the rooms, and drank to
Oblivion.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
History.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SAW a goddess high and splendid
Set on a throne in gleaming state;
Her face was curiously blended
Of light and darkness, love and hate:
For I beheld (it seemed to me)
The judgment-seat of History.
Within her eyes, in wondrous fashion,
While royally she sat on high,
Shone every sin and every passion,
And every truth and every lie:
And round her clustered row on row
Of men who came from earth below.
Ihere saw I Christ, with hands all bleeding,
And wearing yet His crown of shame,
And near Him, priests and bishops pleading
That she might know them in his name;
But well I knew that most of these
In vain would clamor at her knees.
Pell-mell towards her throne they scrambled,
A crew in motley robes and gowns,
And many a group of kinglets gambolled
Like puppets in their tinsel crowns ;
Mid such, at times, there grimly shone
A Cromwell or Napoleon.
Some scrabbled at her feet to hold them,
Some tried to seize her gleaming zone,
And some crawled sneakily to fold them
In the hung trappings of the throne.
A few walked forward, brave and wise,
To challenge her with quiet eyes.
And there were murderers and prelates,
And women with lascivious hair,
And meek-eyed saints and cursing zealots
All fighting for an inch to spare,
One little inch of standing-room
To save them from eternal doom.
For when she waved her hand toward them,
No matter how they clawed and clung
Not all their silly strength could guard them,
But off the dais they were flung ;
And then I saw not their distress,
For all the rest was nothingness.
Two men came hurrying together,
And twain were they whom well I knew,
Though on my life, I know not whether
Their names were ever heard by you ;
For though they make whole cities ring
This Fame is such a little thing.
“Great Goddess !” cried the first, and mellow
His voice rose through that conclave high,
“I am a most distinguished fellow
To be your comrade when I die:
I am Top Dog, the Nation’s Best,
Right Honorable, and the rest.
“For fifty years I schemed and plotted.
For fifty years I climbed and crawled,
Ten thousand speeches I have swotted,
> By twenty titles I am called ;
I’ve spun those tangled things named laws
Amid a party’s wild applause.
“I’ve been the best and loudest pleader
In many a mixed and wordy fight;
I’ve waked an Opposition Leader.
And been Prime Minister at night;
I’ve flummoxed the opposing camp
By changes in a postage-stamp.”
The goddess looked —her eyes were tender —
, And answered gently with a smile,
O Man of Men ! You rose to splendor,
Still must you wait a little while.
Sit by my footstool for a spell
Until your friend his tale shall tell.”
Half-truculently spoke the second :
“Maybe I’m even more a joke,
For I suppose I must be reckoned
As just an ordinary bloke :
I fought a fight with circumstance
And hit and kicked at every chance.
“I made men strike when they were trod on,
I made ’em vote when they were slack;
And when his Nibs here laid the rod on,
I showed ’em how to hit him back:
My mates were all that mates could be,
I stuck to them, and they to me.”
The goddess rose and said : “These matters
Quite long enough have I enjoyed:
The, funny little man who chatters
Must go his way towards the void;
He is the million-millionth freak
Of that same sort I’ve seen this week.
“Bloke, as for you”—her eyes grew merry—
“Your.sentence from the start was known •
Down on your hands and knees, and bury
Your shoulders underneath the throne - !
You’ve got to join the other chaps
Who help to keep Us from collapse.”
So, I beheld the Gabbler tumble
Into a darkness vast and black.
And heard the Bloke, with one dull grumble,
Under the chair-leg thrust his back.
The whole proud platform seemed to jump..
The Bloke? I only saw his rump.
N.S.W.
ADAM McCAY.


WESTINGHOUSE
(MORSE) CHAIN DRIVES
** 4
ia§&
7!*
m.
For all types of high-speed
power transmission.
Positive in Action
Siient in Operation
Unrivalled in Efficiency.
Because their patented feature,
The Rocker Joint,
eliminates the friction due to
sliding surfaces. Consequently
you have
Full Power
Continuous Power
Satisfactory Power.
Full Particulars from
ouse Brake Co. of Austral;
N«!l.f?i l il nd J'f ents - Holmes & Church, Brisbane
Nevw Zealand Agents— Philips & Pike, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Have You Considered
BOUNDER RESAWS?
They are a much better proposition
than a Band Resaw. The upkeep is
considerably less, and the saw-kerf is
smaller, combined with more finished
cutting.
Universally Used in Europe in
Preference to a Band Resaw,
Feed up to 150 ft. per minute.
Ask our Bolinder expert to call on
you with a view of explaining more
fully the advantages of these Machines.
II
The Austral Engineering Supply Co. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: CORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS. LTD.
Metz-“22£190
The Simple Car for the Country.
These Serviceable Cars are at Work all over M.S.W.
If you require a Simple, Economical, Reliable and Moderately-priced Car it will
pay you to investigate the MEJ?Z. Friction Drive (eliminating complicated
gear wheels), 22 H.P., 4 cyl. Bosch Ignition, clearance, 45m. p. hour,
o3m. p. gallon.
Brown
»»
375 Kent Street, SYDNEY
The British-built
"Waver ley.
From £350 to £375
Nett.
GOLDFIELDS DIAMOND DRILLING CO.Pty.Ltd.
331 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works-Sturt St.. South Molbourne.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Armstrong Traction Well-Boring Machine
■—moves without horses
RUMELY KEROSENE
OIL TRACTORS.
ALL-STEEL BORING PLANTS,
TOOLS AND CASING.
Gasoline and Kerosene Engines,
Pumps, Windmills, Silos, Hay
Presses, Wagons, etc., etc.
THE LONE HAND
m its new shape and style has proved extremely popular.
Australia’s National Magazine will contain some big features during
e year. You cannot afford to miss a single number. Why not
su sen e? Post free throughout Australia, 6/-; Foreign, 9/-
"worth a guinea a box”
*
\
THE MORE YOU THINK ABOUT
BfECHAMSte,
THE MORE YOU THINK ABOUT THEM.
CITY FINANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
. . . AT . . .
THE BANKING HOUSE, 228 Pitt Street,
Opposite PALACE THEATRE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
LENDS MONEY ON ALL SECURITIES, including Furniture,
FROM 10 PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
FRED. McYVILLIAM, Manager.
’PHONE—City 7091.
Sawmillers, Joiners and
Cabinet Makers
If You require
SAWMILL AND WOODWORKING
MACHINES, communicate direct with
the MANUFACTURERS.
We can give you expert advice. The Manufac-
turers’ prices will suit you. Cash or easy terms.
Catalogue and all information free. We carry
the largest stock of Woodworking Machines in
Australasia. Call at our stand at the forthcom-
ing Royal Easter Show.
KIRCHNER (EL CO.
32 Market Street, Sydney.
VARIETY WOOD WORKER.
II
r-v\w
v
Arms and Ammunition
Appeal to the Week-End Excursionist
Because a goodßemington-UMC
Rifle affords the best of pleas-
ures on a jaunt through the
woods or into the country.
They are so easily taken apart
for portage and so quickly put
together—your fingers are the
only tools necessary—that the
fun of a week-end holiday is
always augmented by this
handy repeating rifle. Friendly
competition at marksmanship
can be indulged in by young
and old alike.
Ask your dealer to show
you a .22 caliber Remington
Repeating Rifle. Larger cal-
ibers for big game.
Write to us or our nearest representative for a
Remington-UMC catalogue. This and an interesting book
Straight Shooting Tips** sent free on request, postpaid.
Remington Arms Union Metallic Cartridge Company
299-301 Broadway - . . New York, U. S. A.
Australian Representative: D. D. Bryant, P.O. Box 686, Melbourne. v


ARCHITECTS specify
Mack Partitions
and have a Fire-Proof*,
Sound-Proof
and Vermin-Proof
DIVIDING WALL.
Write for our Catalogue, or call and inspect.
MACK LTD.,
Royal Insurance Buildings,
Cor. PITT and SPRING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Office: 19 Queen Street.
FRICTION HOISTS.
SPECIALLY SUITED for BUILDERS* USE.
SIZE IN STOCK: scwt. lift at 200 ft. per minute.
scwt. lift at 300 ft. per minute.
10c wt. lift at 175 ft. per minute.
Fitted with Motors for Use on any Supply Voltage or System.
MODERATE PRICES.
Eta® Ha#® (I
OF jAUSTRAOA Lm.
SYDNEY: Wynyard Lane.
MELBOURNE* G 1 William Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Saul & Roma Streets.
3520 City.
5117 City.
3676 Central.
Har(lie’s Genuine
Used in place of Weatherboards and Plaster
for Walls, Ceilings and Partitions.
FIRE. ROT, HEAT, ACID 8 ANT PROOF
ERECTED COST SAME AS
WEATHERBOARDS.
Our 20-page Booklet B free on application.
JAMES NARPIE * CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney;
and at Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
V
D ALGETY &C 9 LT9,
-
s *(.
AB1H&
OU\OH
1 Union ” Harvester.
Clayton & Shuitleworth
Portable Steam Engine.
i
Tangye Kerosene Oil Engine
LIMITED,
Machinery Merchants, Miller’s Point, SYDNEY, and aii Branches.
A GENCIES
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of all
descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH: Portable Steam & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffcutters and Saw Benches.
GANE MILKING MACHINES.
Yale 8 Towne Manufacturing Co.’s Hoists
We have large stocks of Chain Hoists made by the above Co. We have four
kinds and 20 sizes to handle every Hoisting need.
The Triplex for speed;
The Duplex for handiness; *
The Differential is the cheapest reliable chain block; and
The Electric for rapid hoisting.
Steel Gears, Steel Sheave, Steel Chain, Steel Hooks, Steel Cover.
The safety of every Triplex Block is guaranteed.
We would like to show you them in operation, or we would post you Catalogue
and Prices on application.
H P. GREGORY (Q. CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC LIGHT
WITH ECONOMY.
AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC LIGHTING SETS
FOR PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS
OVERCOME ACCUMULATOR TROUBLES.
NO ATTENDANT. THEY START and STOP THEMSELVES.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
J
SOLE
FRANK!,
AGENTS,
307-311 Kent Street, Sydney;
and
380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
DANGAR GEDYE & CO.
9-13 Young Street, Sydney.
The highest standard of Sheep=Shearing
Machine Science. Its fame is universal.
All parts guaranteed interchangeable
with the “ Wolseley.”
Lister spare parts lead in durability and
superiority.
'en
is
me BEST ENGINE TO BUY. - -
me CHEAPEST ENGINE TO RUN.
me AUSTRALIAN , MADE ENGINE.
In Other Words—
THE SUNSHINE ENGINE
Maker: H. V. McKAY, Sunshine, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane.
r.
u!5
Showing Method of
Mixing Ingredients •
YOUR
r&MitiP-h-
by
using
vb
(Patent Explosive Compound)
The Cheapest Farm Help.
WILL blast trees and stumps—break hard pan—dig ditches—subsoil, etc.
Now being used successfully by Agriculturists and Vignerons throughout Australia.
Ask for our Illustrated Pamphlet, giving full particulars and instructions for use.
No Magazine required. Forwarded as ordinary merchandise.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS-
IIP.
N.
Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Church Lane, Melbourne
