

DXS'WAR’S the Whisky of Sterling Value
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Minins and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
8 “ - inducted in all Darts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avadable.
Specie
'TinwccDC con iu ATHINPIIV otr
WE ADVANCE MONEY
On all Classes of SECURITY,
BILLS DISCOUNTED.
AND LOWEST INTEREST.
N-5
MONT DE PIETE D SI C
74 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY
Opposite National Amphitheatre.
Telephone: City 9325.
Castlereagts Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sy dney.
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street,
BENNETT, Central Manager.
NE.W SOUTH Ijh WA l £
EBB
«*»MfnCI4ITHAHB£RS r* U 4 nsn Mo*» PtmiE OCPOSITmmLSmtMTCn™
HOBART.
*m —
- Orient fiotel.
Richardson’s
Wine 8 Spirit Stores
68 Market Si,
SYDNEY;
158 Russell St.,
MELBOURNE.
Bottle, Case or
OaHon at
Wholesale Price.
h
(M&uttons
HAMS
BACON
*
H.&
CHUBB’S
ANTI BLOWPIPE
SAFES
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
tJunket,
ĥ
F .r INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
0»e ef these specially prepared Tablets act*
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medal*.
“ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price SI/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ħ
The Best for Rough Roads.
The impregnated rubber-cord foundation of these tyres enables
them to resist moisture, strain and friction. Catalogue free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne.
m
rrr
This is a picture of Dr. Brissen-
den’s House at Narraheen, N.S.W.
It is covered with a Red Malthoid
Roof —proof against the salt air.
Roof Your Bungalow with White
h
If your home is situated where the sun beats hard and hot, you’ll find a White
Malthoid Roof will keep the house cool and comfortable. White Malthoid, being
asbestos-coated, is temperature resistant. It is also waterproof and weather-
proof—the most perfect of all roofings. Perhaps you’d let us send you samples
and booklets? What address?
Below is a view of Mr. D. S.
Evans's Bungalow at Leura, Blue
Mountains. See how well it looks
with its White Malthoid Roof.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT CO. (D. S. EVANS, Australasian Manager),
CHALLIS HOUSE. SYDNEY.
cr
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TD
ĥ
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
t
Telegraphic Address—BACON. Murarrie, Queensland
HELIDQN SPA
H ELI DON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
STARKEYS LTD., Agents,
Phillip St., Sydney , and Red fern
The Bulletin
Vol. 35.—N0. 1810.]
[Thursday, October 22, 1914.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Anetralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.,


BERNHARDFS WARN ING -!
“GERMANY AND THE NEXT WAR.” By General F. von Bernhardi.
This starring book created a sensation in England when it was first published in 1912. Its frank warn-
ing should be read by all. Germany, the Ruler of Europe and Dictator to the World.
Special Cheap Edition, 2/6; posted, 2/8.
How the War Began, bv J. M. Kennedy, 1/6 (2d.). McOrae’s “Soldier, My Soldier,” War Verses 1/- (Id.).
“Hoch der Kaiser,” illus'ls. (Id.). War Book of Facts: 3000 Figures and Facts you want to know.
3/6 (2d) War Notes and Queries, Nos. I-XI now ready, 6d. each (id.). After the Storm, 6d. (3d.).
WAR MAPS OF BELGIUM, EUROPE AND THE PACIFIC. Price. 1/2 each, post free.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP’T’Y LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
NACH DEM STURM
(AFTER THE STORM).
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.
A PREDICTION OF THE DOWNFALL OF THE
BRITISH EMPIRE.
This Booklet has been selling by the million in
Germany. It is in every Prussian knapsack ! It is
a prophecy every German prays to come true! Pub-
lished with explanatory Map in colors, showing how
Germany intended to alter the Map of the World!
Prussian Militarism received a fresh impetus upon
its publication. Now on sale at all Bookstalls.
6d. per copy. Posted direct from the Publisher,
7d. Box 906, G.P.0., Sydney.
ASK YOUR LIBRARIAN FOR
“Rosalie and Other Verses,” by “Batcher” (J.
Burgess), Rosalie. “Is a charming poem, a love story
full of purity and sweetness.” —Frances Levvy, Band
op Mercy and Humane Journal, Sydney. “Done m
excellent style.”—The National Advocate, Bathurst.
£l, 10s. and ss. offered for three best simple
accounts of Sweet Rosalie, sent by Ist Nov., 1914, to
Miss G. Burgess, P. 0., Capertee, N.S.W., who will
supply book in Commonwealth, 2s. 6d. post free.
Agents wanted.*
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For Coughs! Colds! Influenza! LET THE BUYER BEWARE!
gk *****,-i
sag^e
G.HUDSON:
POST FREE ON RECEIPT | //C
OF STAMPS, A/ u »
The large sale for “EUMENTHOL JU-
JUBES” has led to a nupiber of imitations
being manufactured under the name of men-
thol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure and get
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES. You
may be asked to buy other jujubes, and be
told they are “just as good” as Hudson's
Eumenthol Jujubes. This, proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputa-
tion of their own, and can only be sold on the
good repute and high character. of Hudson's
Eumenthol Jujubes. X
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS,
or from the Manufacturers—
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY LTD., 19 York
Gyroscopic Poems
EGO.
Yea — L am a love-child: in love beyond all
encompassing, and imagining
Did my mother conceive and hear me, —my
mother the Earth.
A myriad-million years was my gestation,
ere l was perfect,
Enough grown to be born,
and expelled onto the bared knees
of the World.
(And who dare blame me if I know not my
father: perchance he was King of
Chaos! who knowst)
Born!
Heir of all past ages, all ages, yet I
laughed
And at my birth rejected my heritage, be-
cause I desired nothing—
Laughed into the face of Night, who was
my nurse, so that
She smiled back at my laughter, and
covered me with
A very small portion torn from the hem of
a cloud.
Yet my desire was for nakedness, and poiver.
I AM—I AM—I AM—I AM —1 AM—I
AM.
And I delight in poiver and in life. POWER,
oh wouarous word and symbol, breathe in
me, round me, expand
my lungs, and — pouf —blow through my
nostrils. I am life.
I hate, I love, and I desire to propagate, all
to express
The power in me.
(But I hate my kin. because they are the
spawn of earth, but I
I am the World's child of love.)
Let me rejoice thaUthe hate is in me, for to
hate is life;
Did not I bite hard the nipple when my
mother nourished me,
so that she cried aloud in agony of
pain and joy.
And I go naked that my mother might re-
joice in my strength,
For all save my mother I despise.
JNO. M. PRENTICE.
CROWS.
I Stumps, stumps ; stumps, stumps of trees —
- uncountable, ad libitum, one might
almost say ad infinitum.
'Stumps shrinking into the opalescent bush
perspective
Stumps for —roughly speaking, for nothing is
so sincerely deceptive as distance—a trio
of miles ahead.
Stumps in a silent landscape.
Grows, crows, crows! Immobile silhouettes:
coal-black, carven out of the veritable
combustible itself!
A crow to each stump; not a stump without
its crow.
Stump, crow; crow, stump. Stump, stump,
stump. Crow, crow, crow —ad libitum,
ad infinitum, or, at least, three miles.
Caw, caw, caw, caw, caw!
Sudden movement! The shock of sound!
See, the crows have awakened. The landscape
palpitates.
Whirr! Whoosh! Flap! Flip! Caw', caw,
caiv, caw!
The crows fly, aviate, mount upwards, blob-
bing the empyrean and singing their
heart-piercing song of freedom: u Caw,
caw, caw, caw!' 1
Meantime the stumps are left desolate.
Oh, stumps, stumps, stumps. Oh, stumps of
trees! ' _
EARDLEY TURNER.
THE VORTIOIST ARTIST DECLAIMS.
I sing Chaos and tlic glory of it
Yes, and the glory of Myself who have disin-
tegrated
Out of the slavish orderliness of Nature
Chaos primaeval and have set it aslant on
canvas,
And have christened it “Portrait of a Lady ’
So that the brain, of the beholder,
The orderly, slavish, custom-ridden Brain of
the Beholder,
Seeing it > is set free and is filled with
emotion
And goes swirling vortically
Seeking for something
to hang
onto.
What is Form but the delusion of the Eye
And Color but a conceit that changes with
the Sun
And Substance but a trick of Atoms bound
slavishly?
I'-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-t with a Noise as of torn calico,
we will rend them asunder
Casting them into the Vortex that vorticates
for them.
And if it be the wrong sort of a vortex,
Swirling in rhythm,
Bound and enchained by the gripping Laws
of the Universe
Forcing all things to its mould,
Then will we make for ourselves a New
vortex,
Somewhere over the Edge of Beyond, out in
the Back Blocks of Chaos
And There shall this Vortieular movement
of ours Fall Silent
Like a Top that has gone to sleep while it is
spinning,
So that the orderly, slavish and custom-ridden
Brain mentioned at the beginning of the
Poem
Shall no longer perceive it, shall basely con-
clude it has stopt
But we, the Gifted Ones within the Heart of
the Vortex '
ShaU icnote that we have attained to Perfec-
tion,
And are gone, clean out of sight and of
hearing.
M. H.
THE KOOKABURRA.
I “Ah, ah, ah, ah! ou, ou, ou, ou!
Ah ou, ah ou, ah ou! ah, ah, ou, ou!
Behold the Futurist Jackass, the Jackass of
the morrow.
Whose laughter echoeth through the South.
The Trees bend down with laughter
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ou, ou, ou, ou
Ah ou, ah ou! ah ou! ah ou! .
Whispering gums, gloiuing wattle,
But above all the laughter, the laughter
Mocking, echoing, echoing,mocking,
Mocking the sunrise, ah, ah, ou ou!
Impotent anger, furious heat.
What availeth? Nothing availeth.
From the sheltering trees, ah ou, ah ou!
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ou, ou, ou, ou!
And noiv the end of Bay —
Sinking, sinking, slowly, slowly
Silently, peacefully the Sun would set.
But no, no, no — jeering, mocking
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ou, ou, ou, ou!
Ah ou, ah ou. ah. ou-. ah ou!
TJnrest Eternal the laughter of Fiends,
Echoing, mocking, jeering, following
Into the Future, into the day that is to be!
Ah ou, ah ou, ah ou!
Ah, ah: ah! ou ou ou!
Ah ou, ah on!
LETTY FRENCH.
The Red Page
The Australian-bred horse, Gyroscopicism
(by Vorticism, out of Futurism) has entered
for the Poetry Stakes. From the form he is
showing on the track it is evident that the
favorite, Pegasus, even with the help of his
wings, will be but an also-ran.
It is somewhat difficult to define Gyro-
scopic Poetry. Let’s try. It must deal
with a modern subject in a modern manner;
it must not refer to the past, nor make use
of the hallowed cliches of classical verse;
it must deal only in futures; it must not
rime, and its metre must be irregular. This
is merely the ABC of Gyroscopism. The
main thing'is that It must be gyroscopic
(See dictionary.) Most of the competitors
refused to take Gyroscopicism seriously: it is
so much easier not to, Good gyroscopicism
was provided by “Uloola,” “L.5.D.,” Nella
Campbell, Roi Ah Rede, J.J.S. (alack, too
vortically torrid for publication !).
Jane furnishes this: —
Wow-ow-ow + Eee-ee-ee =
Screaming medley of mutinous motors madly leap-
ing—■
Roaring clattering rattle of seemingly intoxicated
Thin ankles -f- indecent blouses -f large hands + small
hats = flappers in multitudes.
Mauve socks + purple ties + green hats + American
shoes = k nuts outside teashops.
Thousands of powdered noses—pug (or retroussS),
Roman (or Ike) pressed to windows of hat
shops.
Gabble-gabble-gabble + sssssssss (= scandals whispered
loudly) + “she told me" + “and so I said” = con-
versation in a tearoom.
Total of above = Female Sydney any old Saturday
morning.
“Undine” discourses gyroscopically upon
“A Prude Ascending a Ladder,” X.X. has a
pleasing appreciation of Snails and Slugs.
E.M.O. and “Pontius Potter” get nearer the
truly gyroscopic
O EARTH! O EARTH!
1 laugh. I shout, I caper in my alee,
1 see vow Tolling through illimitable space,
like a derelict ship deserted by passengers and crew,
wrapped in a blood-red mist.
O eailh! why did you nourish Them?
That they might kill aim strive against each other
and plot arid plan and scheme and love and hate,
all in the end to bring annihilation?
What will you do now, O Earth?
Will you roll on forever void?
Will you breed up anew race of beings?
Will you return to the Sun wiience you came?
or wiil you become a Moon ? O Earth ?
If you breed anew race
breed them without teeth or claws,
for all too soon will they learn to bite and scratch ;
breed them without brain or mind,
for all too soon will they learn to crush their
fellows,
and the weak wiil learn to fawn upon the strong,;
breed them not at all,
but scatter yourself unto the smallest fragments,
and cast yourself from out the limits of Space.
Your work is finished
Your record is written as Failure.
Hahahahahahaaa!
E.E.M.O.
OPPOSITES.
A two-headed demon that gloats
On sweat, pangs, aches and sundry other unpleasant-
. nesses,
Laughs derision as we rest from toil,
And lures us back with siren murmurings.
They call it Work.
A curse on pick and pen and- every tool
That man is married to for lean drab years.
I His reward is a crust, and twisted kisses,
And the unbounded joy of fostering purple pomp
For others,
Who have viewed work through a telescope
And called it pleasant names and lauded it;
But spat when it approached.
The world is sick to death of making things:
Railways, straw hats, hoarse shrieks and stuff to
blacken boots ;
Vile things that clamp us to the dustv earth
The figtree’s now a flaunting draper’s shop.
Each sylvan pool disports a drowned pup.
Behold the rapture in the knacker’s eye
Amid the wreckage of what men have wrought.
The suffragistte’s a knacker with illusions.
An army is a disillusioned knacker magnified.
They shatter gcstatically
The dross of centuries.
Soon- —men will scorn to delve within the earth:
The poet will not strive for tinkling rbvmes :
Gaunt Work will creep to some dank spot.
And die of laughter.
PoNTTTTS POTTKR.
Choice between the remaining 1 divided
s^ssitts^rr^^
TpVtv French and M.H. almost make the
event a dead-heat. Space rates will naid.
as usual, on all Gyroscopicisms printed.
The dainty 'booklet from which the above
verses are quoted contains 13 other little
pieces of similar even quality, some reprinted
from The Bulletin. With little artifice,
Dorothy Frances McCrae contrives to com-
press the feminine view-point of war into her
simple metre. The appeal of these verses
is immediate. They are hurried jottings,
rushed into publication ; but their directness
and simplicity give them a permanent value.
Despite Armageddon, the Peace Society of
N.S.W. is not dismayed. It intends to con-
tinue the publication of Pax, its monthly
magazine. Indeed its editor proudly
announces that he believes that the war will
increase the circulation, and triumphantly
states that “already we have got several new
subscribers.” One wonders if these new sub-
scribers bear German names: it would be a
decent act on the part of that nation to sup-
port the organ that has always fought—as
far as an insect can fight—to keep Australia
defenceless. The magazine even reprints its
a'n«*s: “The adoption of arbitration in all
international disputes instead of war; by the
simultaneous reduction of armaments to re-
lieve the people of the world of the increas-
ing burden of taxation; removal of inter-
national misunderstandings and cultivation
of international brotherhood and goodwill.”
If the Peace Society, headed by Miss Rose
Scott, would only make a deputation to the
Kaiser, surely that kindly monarch would
adopt arbitration, reduce his armaments, and
cuRrvate international brotherhood and good-
will ?
After 1h- Storm (Pratten Bros., Sydney)
is a very foolish prophecy made by Arabi
Pasha, in the form of a lecture at Alexandria
in 1M1. Under its German title, Nach dem
Sturm, it is alleged to have had a wide cir-
culation in Germany. All that need be said
of it is that there are 32 contributors to
The Bulletin who have made better
prophecies, and any one of them is prepared,
for the price of two beers, to prophesy till
they are elected from the bar.
War Verses
SECOND THOUGHTS.
I wished you back at my breast
When I saw this war descend,
Notv I d scour tne east and west
For another son fo send;
Oh. that the parents, too, might go
To lead the way, and slay the ]oe.
I tvislied your toddling feet
Played round the house again,
Now I want them strong and fleet,
And sure in the grand campaign.
Our prayers will follow you, my son;
God take you, then —His will be done.
I wanted your baby tongue
To prattle with laughter gay,
Now give me an order flung
Like a rifle-shot away —
Houv parents' hearts are on the field
Die if you must , hut do not yield.
WAR.
In the foreground streaming cges,
In the distance battle cries,
Down the skyline blue and dim _
Goes his ship. Christ shelter him.
Just a soldier gone to war,
But he was the babe I bore,
And I buckled on his sword,
Like a soldier’s mother, Lord.
Other mothers need his care,
Babes that other mothers bare,
And I were the poorest thing
Did I grudge him to his king.
So with smiles l bade him go,
Choked the sob, and anguish throe,
But above the martial hymn
Wails my heart, Christ shelter him !
Dorothy Frances McCrae,
in “Soldier, My
Soldier!” (G. Robertson, C.A.)-
Australian Fiction
Vera G. Dwyer is to be congratulated on
a great advance from the crudeness of her
first attempt at flapperature, With Beating
Wings. Mona’s Mystery Man (Ward,
Lock) has an absurd and preposterous plot ;
but, for her special class of readers, this
does not matter. The flapper loves the in-
credible provided it is romantic. But the
merit of this newel lies in its portraiture.
The two men are merely the sort of_ men
that the flapper imagines ; but the family of
the Worths is a genuine Australian
suburban family, stereoscopically photo-
graphed. These people are delightful ; their
talk is real, their humor human. And
Mona, the affected poseur, whose veneer
is rudely rubbed off in her contact
with life, is a type universal, admir-
ably and unshrinkingly drawn. This novel
places Vera G. Dwyer high up in her class
—a class that has easily established a repu-
tation in Britain. It may be said that the
only successful exponents of flapperature in
English fiction are Australians.
Two Island stories, South Sea Sinners, by
Arthur Crocker (N.S.W. Bookstall), and
Where Bonds are Loosed, by E. L. Grant
Watson (Duckworth, per George Robertson,
C. A,), offer an interesting contrast in
method. Crocker’s shilling-worth is a
luscious picture of brown maid and beauti-
ful white Australian girl, with the mag-
nificent hero the object of their rivalry.
Of Course, he drinks, and lives with some
brown person’s pleasing brown wife. But
as he persists in rescuing the white damsel
from dangers that sensible person recovers
from her shock and marries him. Other
things helped: “Her beautifully-modelled
arms glinted a golden tan in these early sun-
rays; and the wet, light silk clung and
moulded to her superb form, revealing its
every line and beautiful curve.” On page
74 her “whole body throbbed against him.”
On page 76 “she felt the throb of his great
body against her own, and knew that the
strings of his own soul were ecstatically
vibrant and responsive to the pulsing of
hers.” What hero wouldn’t go on rescuing
such a heroine? Despite this lusciousness
of description, the author has put some
solid work in his description of coolie life
on the Island copra plantations.
When Bonds are Loosed is a much more
ambitious work. E. L. Grant Watson has
written a few interesting brutal stories of
Australia, published in The Monthly
Review, This novel is brutal enough, too.
Kne' is a couple of islands oft the
coast of semi-tropical Australia, u&ed as a
sanatorium for sick natives- Sherwm is
appointed as the overseer of the island on
which are the male natives, where he lwes
iu solitude except for the occasional visit of
i-hp slovenly medical superintendent. A
oung doctor arrives on the other rig*
to prosecute some researches In disease
and the antagonism that springs up between
two unpleasant personalities leads to the
dismissal of the superintendent and the
appointment of the newcomer to his plaxji.
The author has spun out these inessential
preliminaries to wearisome length. He has
evidently not learnt the first lessons of lus
craft. A new matron is appointed for tne
women’s quarters, a matron with a past.
She seduces the young doctor trom his work,
and other things, till he tires of her. He
flies to the island where Sherwm, lording it
iu solitude, has sunk in the scale of civilisa-
tion. But the woman refuses to be lett
behind, forces her way on to the boat, and
arrives at Sherwin’s island. On a previous
visit he, who had not seen a woman tor a
year, had forcibly kissed her. Now he sees
that the affair has progressed far enough
for him to take a hand.
“Now, look here,” he says to the doctor.
“You’re tired of her, I can see that. Ive
been tired of a woman myself before now.
Play the game. Pass her on to me. IU
take her off your hands.”
The doctor refuses so easy a solution of
the difficulty. The men quarrel, and ulti-
mately Sherwin, in a fair fight, kills the
doctor. Then he returns for the woman,
the necessary blood-stained knife in his hand.
She purchases her life at the usual price.
So far the drama has hardly been a pleasant
one; but the final act shows that Sherwin
and the woman, unsuspected of the murder,
live happily ever after. Each has found in
the other the only possible mate. The con-
clusion. at first sight incomprehensible, has
some basis of probability in the fact that
both characters are of a low moral organi-
sation, both are unpleasant and unworthy
types, and consequently neither would have
any difficulty in finding his or her comple-
ment in the other. Why it should have been
necessary to write such a novel for the sake
of such "a moral is known, presumably, to
the author. It is a very unpleasant tale,
crudely though forcibly told.


Jk
we
ffl
cafc/mf’Aori.
#G
7
GDIS
rr~
: ,
M
m
s .\
<P//M)rD29/6
ftpehestSr
iQ/6
Milton. 35/?,
adrozu
32/e
Qromor
35/6
Fashion and economy go
hand in hand in the Green
Room at the New Palace Em-
porium, where the choicest creations
of the season are shown in variety
that will satisfy the most exacting*
Send for Summer Fashion Book, post
free on request. Far and away the
best value in the land is assured by
the influence of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Our Illustrated Price Lists place the
immense resources of the New Palace
Emporium at the command of every
one. Write for copies of anything you
want, post free anywhere.
SMART SUMMER STYLES
Perfect-Fitting—Ready-to-Wear.
The Clifton. — Coat and Skirt, in Silk Poplin, Tussore shade
only. Mandarin sleeve, beautifully buttoned to tone; suitable
for girls from 16 to 19 years 29/6
The Rochester. — Coat and Skirt, in fine White Pique, piping
of Blue Linen; girlish costume for young ladies 15 to 19
years 19/6
The Milton.—Coat and Skirt, in Cheeked Summer Tweed,
mingled shades of Fawn and Blue, also Fawn and White, facings
and pipings of contrasting shades; fitting girls 16 to 19
years 35/6
The Avon. Coat and Skirt, in Brocaded Cloth, Navy, Saxe,
Grey, smart facings of Silk Tartan; suitable for girls from 17 to
19 years f*2/6
The Cromer. — Coat and Skirt, in Voile Ecossaise, a pretty
soft Brown; cut to fit girls from 16 to 18 years, and small, adult
fi S ure s 35/6
Also a similar design in Cinnamon Frosted Crepe 25/6
The Carlton. — Fashionable Sports Coat and Skirt, in
Black and White Check Summer*Suiting, Coat trimmed Black Satin
Pipings, and lap seams, Belt of Self, high-waisted Skirt eased into
strap at back 27 /(J
The Hexham. — Useful Coat and Skirt, in Pencil-striped
Sicilian, new Yoke Coat, fastened to throat, semi-fitting, with Belt
at waist, four-piece, high-waisted Skirt with lapped folds. Black,
Navy or Brown, with White Stripe 35/-
The Hilda. — Useful Japanese Silk Robe, fastening at front,
with Vest of Net, edged Frilling, Corded Raglan Blouse, has new,
pleated Frill at waist, Skirt has wide, lapped seams, rounded at
foot. In new shades of Lime, Saxe, Cinnamon, Cream and
Black 29/6
The Chetwvnd. — Stylish Coat and Skirt, of White Fancy
Check Pique, with washable Grey, Black or Saxe woven Checks.
Coat has set-in, wide American Sleeves, step Collar and strap Belt
of Poplin, in contrasting shades, with oval Collar and Vest of
White Pique, high-waisted Skirt, has deep Tunic f01d,... 32/6
The Marion. — Smart American Robe Costume, in natural
Tussore Silk, cased into Waist with strap, roll Collar and But-
tons being of Sand Crepe-de-Chine 19 /«
m
1:1
m
§»!
m
Hi,
rm
€
w
m
w*
Carlton 27/e
Hextiam3s?
Hilda 29/61
QxtwuM
32/6
Marion 19/0
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


-
r :■
M
* m
ae
nt-jj
:X <*?,
K-.i
sj§» i
WHIi
s, j
*4 IS
i
asK3Bl
*
iSs
k
mSS .wURpP >, 1
wwmm
m
.22 CALIBER RIFLES
For target shooting or hunting small game, Win-
chester .22 Caliber Rifles give entire satisfaction,
because they are made with the same care and
skill as the “big guns.” There are three different
Winchester .22 caliber repeaters and four different
single shots made. From this array you can surely
pick out a rifle that will suit you. Your dealer has
them. Remember that
YOU CAN’T GO WRONG ON A WINCHESTER.
When You Don’t Feel Well.
If you are not feeling well; if you are run down ;
out-of-sorts, have a sickly taste in your mouth,
a sallow skin, headache, no appetite and no
energy, you know there is something wrong with
your' system, yet perhaps you hardly feel ill
enough to call in the Doctor. But certainly
something must be done to correct the sluggish-
ness of your liver and tone up your digestion,
and for this purpose you will find an excellent
remedy in
Cm
a
! ANTI BILIOUS
L
A REPUTATION OF OVER !C0 YEARS.
Cockle’s Pills are of purely a vegetable character. They
act pleasantly and painlessly, giving a splendid tone to the
liver and digestive apparatus, and make you feel in the
pink of health. Prescribed
originally by a Doctor for
his patients, they have now
a world-wide sale.
“ Bobbb
Peeler.”
ħ
When Sir Robert Peel introduced the police
service in 1829 his name became a house-
hold word, for policemen have been called
“Bobbies” ever since. Similarly, when
Dr. Cockle introduced his Antibilious Pills
over a century ago, his name, too, became a
household word, for Cockle’s Pills are
to-day famous the whole world over.
COCKLE’S TILLS
of Chemists through •
out the World.
Prices in England,
I/I& 6* 2/9 * box.
GUNS, RIFLES, REVOLVERS,
for SHOOTERS
and SPORTSMEN
TRADE MARK
SPLENDID 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12 gauge, choke bore, kills at extra long range.
Accurate and reliable. Holiday Price, 17/6. D.8.8.L. GUN, fitted with
Greener cross bolt, bar and rebounding locks, choke and modified steel barrels,
walnut stock, pistol grip. GOVERNMENT TESTED. AN EXCELLENT
KILLER. Holiday Price, £3/10/- D.8.8.L. GUN, choke and modified steel
barrels. Government Tested. THE FARMER’S FRIEND. Special Price,
£2/2/- MAUSER BOLT ACTION 22 CAL. TAKE-DOWN RIFLE, nice and
lio’ht. A verv accurate little weapon. THE YOUTH’S FAVORITE. Holiday
Price, 14/6. CHAMPION CENTURY RIFLE, fitted with patent beaded
sight, pistol grip, steel heel plate, bent bolt and patent ejector. Takes .22
long, .22 shout, or shot cartridges for birds. One of our best sellers. Holiday
Price, 18/6. Write for Our Catalogue.
CAN BE OBTAINED AT THESE PRICES ONLY FROM
THE SMALL ARMS CO.
Largest Importers of Arms and Ammunition in the Commonwealth
242-4 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Is This YOUR Business?
]f you run a boat or carry goods or passengers, get a
Ferro Rowboat Motor. You can make five or six as many trips
as you do now, and double your profits with less work.
We have been making marine engines for seven years,.
Our factory covers eight acres of floor space and employs
1000 men. SPECIFICATIONS OF THE “FERRO.”
Assembled complete and ready to run. Choice of Battery
or Bosch Mpgnctob Float feed carburetter. 2-1 h.p. Speed
1 to 10 miles per hour. Fits any boat propelled by sail or
band. Attached in two minutes. Portable. Removable bearings.
We also build a complete line of marine and stationary
engines. , , , „ , . ,
Write ns to-dav, and tell us what kind of a boat yon have,
and we will show you how you can save money by using the
Ferro Rowboat Motor. We will tell you the name of the
nearest dealer carrying* a stock of “Ferros,” Correspondence in
any language. Write to-day.
THE FERRO MACHINE AND FOUNDRY CO.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. Cable: Ferro-Cleveland.
I
I
c&s
W.
12
r_-g
T r
=c
UK
H
•1
P 5
*5
a
At night
and again
in the morning
your teeth ought to have that
thorough antiseptic cleansing
which is so readily provided
by the use of
SULPHOLINE
THE FAMOUS
LOTION.
QUICKLY REMOVES
SKIN ERUPTIONS . . .
ENSURING A
CLEAR COMPLEXION
The slightest Rash, faintest
Spot, irritable Pimples, dis-
figuring Blotches, obstinate
Eczema disappear by applying
SULPHOLINE
Which renders the skin spot-
less, soft, clear, supple, com-
fortable.
BOTTLES 1 /- and 2/9.
For 42 Years.
SULPHOLINE
-Has been the Kerned,y for
ERUPTIONS
PIMPLES
REDNESS
PSORIASIS
ROUGHNESS,
RASHES
ECZEMA
SCURF
ACNE
BLOTCHES
SPOTS
ROSEA
Sulpholine is prepared by the great Skin Specialists •
j pepper & CO., LTD., Bedford Laboratories, LONDON, S.E., Eng ,
and can be obtained dirept from them by post or from
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Sulpholine quickly removes the effect of Sunscorch.


'fp
work will be
thoroughly done if you
f^- s , e T? 'Three-in-One”
f Oil Duster!
Sprinkle a few drops of
‘3-in-one” Oil
, a w Pollen rag or cheese-cloth
» and y° u have a Duster that will lif
' t V.^ I d . us tr not merely disturb it!
o-in-One is entirely free froir,
grease—just clear, water-white,
.3 refined Dusting Gil that
\mak.es everything clean and
bright. Ti
Imparts a fine polish to I
furniture ; shines glassware'
REID AND REID,
' Australasian Agents,
82 L, Harris Street, Wellington, N.Z
Send for Free Sample
Bottle.
*O-HAINES ADV.
11
A Dustless
Duster!
WORLD'S CYCLE RECORD
M. Planes on a 7 year 01. l Britishmade Ail-
Steel Mead Modele Superbij
iCOVENTRY FLYER 9
f;£- d< r 34*366 Miles in 365 Days
(omcially authenticated'. Beat over 650 coin-
petit°r s on up-to-date cycles.
mead cycles stand the test.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
Dunlop Tyres, Variable-Speed Gears, etc.
Est. 25 yrsA
MEAD
Latest
Models
£3-10 to o GO
Direct from factory, Packed Free, Carrfacre
Faid to your port. Ten Days’ Free Trial
Motor Cycles ami Cycle-Cars at Factory
Prices. Write for Free Art Catalogue^
CVCLE COMPANY
(Dept. A 282 ), LIVERPOOL)
A G v E A f'.£ B « k ““„"SS‘ s -
LARGE STOCKS ON HAND. ALL MODELS.
h
ĥ
LETTERS COPIED WHILE WRITING
(m ink) by using your own Letter-paner
with this Book. You slip your
paper into the holder and write,
and by the act of writing you
secure a perfect letter and a
perfect copy. There is no
sign of copying. 400 octavo Sin. x sin., or 200 quarto
letters, can be copied in NSC/200 Book, size 105 x
Sk, post free 4/6; or NSC/400 DOUBLE Capacity
i°r 6/-. Special Small Octavo Book, making 200
copies Bin. x 6in., post free 3/6 ; double capacity, 4/6.
Sample of the celebrated Zanetic Ink Paper which
produces this result, free if stamped-addressed
envelope sent to S. B. Zanetic, Leicester, England.
Zanetic goods obtainable from Sands & McDougall,
Ltd Collins Street West, Melbourne, and Branches
at Adelaide and Perth.
“OX THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
ELEY
CARTRIDGE CASES
were used by the winner of the
CLAY-BIRD
CHAMPIONSHIP
at the Clay-Bird Shooting Asso-
ciation Championship Meeting
held at Hendon, June 24-27, 1914
No matter what powder is selected,
ELEY Cartridge Cases give the
best results. For instance:
PRIX DU CINQUANTENAIRE,
MONTE CARLO (Dec. g, 1913)
—won with ELEY Cartridge
Cases loaded with Ballistite.
GRAND PRIX DU CASINO
MONTE CARLO (Feb. 12,19x4)
—FIRST & SECOND Prizes won
with ELEY Cartridge Cases
loaded with Rottweiler and
Smokeless <t> Diamond
respectively.
CLAY-BIRD CHAMPIONSHIP
HENDON (June 27, 1914)
winner used ELEY Cartridge
Cases loaded with Mullerite
& Clermonite ( right and
left barrels).
WHOLESALE ONLY ;
ELEY BROS., LTD.
LONDON.
Agent: ALBERT ADAAIS,
420, George St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
ħ
BONHIHCTWS
f IKStACCCII
IRISH MOSS
h
It is a good policy to keep in the home
a Cough Remedy of Proven Merit. She is
a wise mother who insists upon getting a
Skilfully Prepared Medicine.
wm
1
has stood the Test of Fifty Years. Those
who use it are amazed at its Wonderful
Curative Properties.
ĥ
ħ
tSaved from Drink
Miss -, the daughter of a one-time drunkard, writes : *‘Just another letter to
let you know, that after 18 months from taking your Golden Specific father still
keeps oil the drink, and my friend that you are supplying with treatment now is
also losing the craving.” Golden Specific is the only sure and lasting cure for
drunkenness. Can be given seoretly, and is guaranteed harmless. It quickly
banishes the craving for strong drink —some cases cured in few days. .
TRY IT FREE. To all who are interested we will send a FREE
SAMPLE, booklet, and testimonials on receipt of 2d. stamp.
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO. (Dept. B 2017) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
h
A CHARMING FIGURE
Within Every Woman’s Reach
of a well-rounded, nicely-formed bust deprives a woman
ot four-fifths of the charm that would otherwise be hers.... Are your
cheeks sunken and hollow? Have you deep lines around your mouth
and eyes? . Are your arms thin and scrawnv? And is your chest fiat
and your bosom undeveloped? Do your shoulder-blades and the “salt-
cellars that form at your throat make evening’ dress almost a tragedy?
Are you so thin that your clothes merely hang on you? »
MRS. V. GRAHAM, of Stanley Street, Richmond, tells in the fol-
lowing letter of her release from the thraldom of poor development
and deficient figure:—
, v “*? ur treatment is wonderful, and I have to thank
Dr. FAXXIERE'S FLESH-FOOD for not only restoring
my health, but for building up my figure and develop-
ing my bust to my entire satisfaction. lam better in
every way from its use, and it did exactly what you
claimed it would from its use, and even more quickly than you stated/*
In many cases bust measurements have been increase,! by over ten inches, and "the grain in
actlla weight -equally distributed over the body in generally deficient cases—has been over five
pounds weekly. Some other cases have shown an increase in weight of even a pound a dav The
average bust increase desired is about six inches, and is readily accomplished. Results guaranteed.
I- br-bll-FOOp otters reliefmnd development to the thousands of chronically thin women who
have despaired of ever possessing- a presentable figure. It is a nerve and tissue food treatment
that adds weight and permanent development to attenuated women. We have not space here but
if you will write or call, we will give you hundreds of testimonials from grateful, happy women.
LET US SEND YOU A FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
We want you to know just what FLESH-FOOD is, and will gladly give you a free sample.
S. a „Tv f. ta !‘ 1 J ) ; H,® a . free trial sample and our instructive book on attenuation,
LOVELY WOMAN. hLESII-FOOD is put up in tablet form, and can be secretly taken if de-
sired. Alb conespondence is confidential and private, and all our literature is sent closely
covered and free from observation. Write at once. You are placed under no obligation what-
ever to buy because you send for sample. It is ABSOLUTELY FREE. CALL IF CONVENIENT.
FAIXIERE FLESH-FOOD CO., 1103 ASH STREET, SYDNEY. [1822^
♦
"ggssi
The widest range for
children in the world.
Unshrinkable and
most serviceable.
Take care only to provide the softest textures
for children’s feet. Strictly avoid mixtures
which cause perpetual skin irritation. ‘Jason
foods alone possess that rare quality of silky
softness which cannot harm the most delicate
flesh.
Firstly for this reason, always buy ‘Jason’ for
children of all ages and both sexes ; secondly,
buy it because it may be had without exception
in the largest and choicest variety of styles and
is always of the most dependable quality and
quite unshrinkable. Ask your dealer for
and do not be put off with anything
else. See the tab on every pair.
Each pair, whether child’s, woman’s or
man’s, guaranteed unshrinkable.
lii case of difficulty come out without and write to
us. We will se you are supplied.
The Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, Eng.
An. 49 , .
99
SITR
SIC
QUALITY SOCKS
AND STOCKINGS
FOR CHILDREN.
Also for Ladies and Men.
Tobacco
$
Kills!
MOST MEN would
cure themselves of
the Tobacco Habit if
they knew they could
do so easily and also
without causing
themselves discom-
fort. ... It takes but
ten minutes for To-
bacco to change the
beats of the heart.
To keep it up is to
tempt death by heart
disease, nervous col-
lapse, tobacco cancer
and stomach, liver or
kidney disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harm-
less, vegetable remedy that will make the
user of tobacco in any form absolutely aban-
don the habit for good. It not destroys the
craving, the desire, the appetite for tobacco,
but restores to health the entire nervous sys-
tem, and aids Nature in entirely eliminating
from the system the Nicotine Poison of
Tobacco.
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you, under
sealed cover, a Free Sample, also our Book-
let, Ihe Tobacco Habit and its Consequen-
ces.” Write for particulars and Book to-day
H. SINCLAIR f£b CO.,
Dept. G,
29 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. [4.
ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-
from “The Bulletin” Office, Sydney.’
ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not
only COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but ono
THAT WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS. Then write us, and we will
send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE
Nevermind if you have tried everything
else. This is something ENTIRELY NEW;
it is. in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing
leather understraps. The pad is made of
soft rubber, which exerts a GENTLE yet
FIRM PRESSURE on the CORRECT SPOT.
To show what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL
in every instance. The price is within
the reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT, and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men. women & children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collina-st,, Melbourne, Vic.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia, and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the offices, Ho High Hoi-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Popular Pathos.
Prattle from English fool-paper: “1 heard a charm-
ing story of Queen Mary the other dav. Iter
Majesty, who felt tired after the effects of her Ion"
Scottish journey, requested one of her ladies-in-wait-
to read tlie newspaper to her. The lady com-
menced with the foreign intelligence. ‘No, no,’ said
Queen Mary, ‘read me the police reports. That is
where I learn the pathos in the lives of my people.' ”
Don’t read “intelligence” that’s labelled
foreign,
For foreigners have none.
Tired from the land of haggis, reel and
sporran,
The weary day is done.
Dead me police reports of the Old Bailey,
Vine-street and Bow-street from mv penny
daily.
Dead me the lines imposed on costers’ wives;
I fain would learn the pathos of their lives.
If there’s a tale of fortunes in the city,
Deshrew me, turn it down :
’ p would I know the pathos and the pitv
Of all this sordid town.
Bet me not. hear of Bond-street and its
fashions,
lint turn unto the elemental passions
Of suicides from off the Fish-street steeple,
And all the pathos of the English people.
Not any tale of bishop or of preacher,
I know ’em, every one,
And do not me inform or be a teacher—
For me there can be none.
But read to me of the new suicide,
Dr of that poor, proud one who killed his
bride.
Dead me of how poor men desert their wives.
Dead me the pathos of my people’s lives.
I do not wish to hear of Earls and Flossies
Of chorus girls and such,
Upon my moral code grow ancient mosses—-
A Duke should love his Dutch.
I know that whom the Lord lovetli he
chaseth,
I do not wish to hear whom He embraced!,
But tell me of the busy human hives,
And all the pathos of my people’s lives.
The pathos of the sweated industries,
Mention them all to me;
Of Cradley Heath’s chain-makers at their
ease
In starving liberty.
And tell me how the Decent Poor exist—
'■Tad not of Cousin Wilhelm’s mailed fist.
But how Bow-street is over-filled from dives.
And all the pathos of my people’s lives.
I "’ant no yarn of high patrician glory ;
Dead to me the intense
Tale homicidal, or the old, old story
Of the dear burglar’s booty and his fence.
Death ! Maintenance ! Divorce ! I fain would
hear it;
Tales of the Submerged Fifth, for I can bear
it;
Tales of Rill Sikes and blokes who fight with
knives,
And all the pathos of their daily lives.
•Tust find me Deynold’s, Lloyd’s and the
Despatch,
Or (better) Snorting’s Truth ;
Dead of the magistrate who made a match
For Boaz out of Shoreditch and his Dutli.
Dead of the. prisoner who keenly feels
His sad. position—laid down by the heels ;
Of magisterial jokes, black eyes of wives,
And all the pathos of my people’s lives.
VICTORIA.
MARTIN LUTHER.
Amaranth and Others.
I feel no hate for Amaranth,
Because she broke her vows to me;
No hot and jealous anger burns
Within my bosom smould’ringly ;
In fact, I am quite friendly with
Her chubby husband, John H. Smith.
Nor for the fickle Jessica
Have I a hurt that will not heal;
Because I missed fair K ate or Anne
jr No wild resentment do I feel.
’{is true they wedded place and pelf:
Hut 1 took someone else myself.
I do not deem that Ethel tried
To fool me with a tender kiss.
1 am no love-lorn egotist;
She liked me well enough for this:
Ho lean her head upon my chest,
And urge me to be better dressed.
There have been wounds; but they are
healed.
r .,{ keep but tender thoughts, and sweet,
-though some of them 1 see no more.
i3,ni n ir Some T they l )ass me in the street,
*tiH Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Smart
Are Kate ’ and '‘Mary” in my heart.
I only wonder, as I glance,
If ever, in a tender way,
Jessie has time to contemplate
w^. h at sweet night at Maroubra Bay.
Hi'nil joi’ a while we dreamed was Heaven,
filer little angels” now are seven.)
Hoes faded Dora, driving past.
Recall how once she dreamed with me
A fair, fond plan of future days—
Hove, and Ourselves and Poverty!
A brief but very sweet pretence,
>etoie we both were cursed with sense.
Uli; I remember scorc-s of things:
Sweet nights, gay days and tender dreams.
And sometimes, when one smiles at me.
hint of recollection gleams
Within her eyes; my memories flow
Back to the joys of years ago.
1 £i ew them all with kindly eye.
t hough some are stout and o've'rdresesd
And some are worn, and faded some. ‘ ’
cj-'ot IP'e.ying are the raven-tressed •
>till I. for sweetness shown to me
1 reserve their youth in memory
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Country Housewives can Cook by Electricity at the
Cost of a Few Pence.
You simply switch
ĥ
ħ
And the “LISTER-
BRUSTON” Auto-
matic Electric Light-
ing Set starts itself, and
generates sufficient current
to light your home and
do all your cooking.
h
To have your lie
of hard work-
current, there i
explain the svs
AGENTS:
ann' electrically lighted means BIG economy, whilst cooking- by Electricity cuts out heaps
-it’s economical and novel. As “LISTER-RRUSTON” Sets make then- own
is no need to wait until your Town Council instals a Plant. Let us write and fully
lem to YOU—there are over 1000 “LISTER-BRUSTON” Sets in use now.
N s.W.—VV. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD., 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
VIC.—SUTHERLAND & ASHMAN, Flinders Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA-CLUTTERBUCK BROS., Adelaide. A
ĥ
THE CONTACT FINGERS IN AN ALLEN WEST
CONTROLLER ARE DIFFERENT—TO OTHERS.
They arc securely attached to machined terminal bases,
rigidly clamped on to a mica insulated steel bar. Each
finger consists of a gunrnetal casting of great mechanical
strength, pivoted to a solid bearing on the base, and is
pressed against the drum by a spiral compression spring of
tested pressure. All fingers are fitted with heavy, renewable
contact tips of hard-drawn copper, and the current is carried
front the finger to the terminal base by a heavy shunt of
laminated ccipper. The renewable tip has a stud perman-
ently screwed into it, and is held in position by a nut and
lock washer. .
We are the Sole Australian Representatives for Allen
West & Co., of Brighton, England, and we will appoint
Agents for all their Controllers in each State.
W. Q. WATSON & CO., LTD.,
Suppliers of Everything Electrical,
279 CLARENCE STREET;
426=430 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
(Just round from the Town Hall).
ON THE HOP
A superb library volume of historic interest, handsomely printed and
bound, containing upwards of Three Hundred of ‘‘Hop’s” best drawings.
Reproduced full “Bulletin” si/e. Price 215., from “The Bulletin” Ofhee,
214 George. Street, Sydney.
The World’s War Chariot
%
r
Used by the British War Department.
The Staff Officers report: These cars are
particularly acceptable and favored in view of their
Reliability, Quick Acceleration $ Speed.
aA'xWtUl
M
m
Shapely.
Speedy.
Safe.
Comfortable.
Convenient.
Commodious.
The Prince Henry Vauxhall
(BRITISH MADE)
In a recent run of 700 miles, this car distanced
all competitors by finishing* first, with an
AVERAGE OF 88 MILES PER HOUR.
Send for Catalogue and Particulars to-the Agents:
SUNSHINE MOTOR CARS PTY. LTD.
HUGH VICTOR McKAY, Chairman. S. HUTCHINSON,, Managing Director.
MELBOURNE:
Garage: Cr. Collins
and Spencer Sts.
SYDNEY:
27=39 George
Street West.
ADELAIDE
56 North
Terrace.
BRISBANE :
Stanley
South Brisbane
YOUR GARDEN SHOULD BE NOW
LOOKING FRESH and GREEN.
Keep it so by watering regularly
with a length of
“Watershed
Red Rubber Garden Hose
“ ’Tis the hose that makes the
difference.”
“Watershed” Hose is a faithful
production of all that higliest-
grade materials and expert labor
can produce.
It is made in Australia, and
guaranteed free from any fault in
manufacture that would cause it
to burst, split, peel or kink.
In 00ft. coils (Carriage extra).
(■y
k "f
GS
.
U/nr
. . -tyo
■X"
«■
Nigs
ife
ħ
h
lin. x 3-p1y.... 1/3 ft.
or
30ft., complete with fit-
tings 41/3
GOft. do. do 77/6
Send for a copy of our new Hose List, post free.
If your Storekeeper does not stock “Watershed”
to us.
Ilose, send your order direct
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
ĥ
POLISHES FLOORS
PERFECTLY.
.
Shi-noleum gives a belter shine in
less time than any other Polish —does it more economically, too. A
little goes a long way, and the effect is lasting. It does not gather
the dust and is a preservative, doubling the life of the Linoleum.
Shi-noleum is good for wood floors, furniture, tan boots, and all
leather goods.
Do not accept a substitute said to be “ just as good.” It your storekeeper cannot
supply you. send his name to the Paget Manufacturing Co., Dtd., 109 Regent
Street, Sydney, and a free sample will be sent you.
Wmtm
The
Master
Model
m
£lOO
/
I
X*
Twin
Cylinder
Model 9
with
Countershaft
Gear.
This splendid model,is the last word in Motor-Cycle cons! ruction, and
embodies special features which stamp it as the machine par ercrllcnce.
It is fitted with an improved frame of exceptional strength, and h
specially adapted for side-car work.
The Counter Shaft Gear, with the chain-cum-belt drive, provides a
driving power of great efficiency and thorough elasticity.
This model has heavy tyres, which will stand the most severe test.
Call and examine this splendid model in our showrooms we’ll he glad
to tell you all the points about this new master model of the Big Six.
If you can’t call, write for Catalogue 836. We’ll post it i rce.
BENNETT 8 BARBELL Ltd.
“THE HOUSE FOR BRITISH GOODS,”
Agents for New Hudson, Triumph, Rudge=Whitworth and Bat Motor Cycles,
J. A. P. Engines, and Manufacturers of B. &. B. Cycles & Motor Cycles.
124-132 CASTLEREAOH STREET, SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
leistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 35.—N0. 1810.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1914.
Puicb 6d.
THE IMPORTING DISEASE AND THE MELBOURNE WATER SHORTAGE.
MELBOURNE CITIZEN: "Let's see! Melbourne wanted a better water supply. I lost my job at the pipe-factory because it was our policy to import the
pipes, even if they cost more than our own. We borrowed the money abroad to pay for the imported pipes. I was taxed to pay interest on the loan.
The pipes didn't come because of the war. We're all taxed to pay for our share of the war. Now I have neither a job nor a wash!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper♦
“Australia for tlie White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, Of
Mtisgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosinati, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
RUBBISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SVBSCRIBERSi
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per Annum you can have 'tun
Bulletin Sent regularly to you every week for a
year) including Special Christmas Number , post paid.
Cheques , drafts, etc., which should be crossed , and
all Bus ; ness Communications to be addressed to she
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be re-
fused. . ,
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby ex-
pressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor wilt carefully read, and, Where prac-
ticable, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” col-
umn all contributions submitted, whether in the form
of Political, Social or other Articles, VerSe. Short
Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Australian sub-
jects, and not exceeding two columns in length, or,
say. 8000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings . All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions arc observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of
MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
niUECT reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea,
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions Will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in Lon-
don, after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs.
Gordon and Gotgh, Ludgate Circus.
South Afbica. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
D C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Jffil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, 8.C.; Jepson Bros., Nanaimo, D.C.
U.S.A. — Panama-Pacific News Co., Market Street,
San Francisco,' C. IK. Jewett, Utah, U.S.A.; Childs
News Agency, corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego,
Cal.; Bay City News Co., San Francisco; Quaker
News Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A.; IK. F. Lenehan, 585
29tli Street, San Francisco; Queen City News Co.,
Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago, U.S.A.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Iyong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —JK. G. P. Perera, 16 Daillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Postage Bates.
Single copies The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji. British Papua, Norfolk and Lord
Howe Islands, 10oz., id.: United Kingdom, All Sea
Route, 160 z., Id. Only one newspaper should be en-
closed in each packet — otherwise: B oz., Id., Bioz.
to 10oz., 2id.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sd.; elsewhere, hoz.,
Id., and id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1914.
FINANCIAL SCRAPS AND FANCIES
AND SUNDRIES.
Dear Bulletin, —Last week the N.S.W.
State Government again postponed its be-
lated financial statement on the ground that
the war had stood business on its head, or
its ear, or some other unusual portion of its
anatomy, and that the said Government was
more confused than usual, if such a. thing
could be imagined. Possibly the document
will appear all of a sudden, before these
remarks reach the public, for The Bulletin
is issued on Thursday, and Holman gener-
ally goes broke in his public capacity on
Wednesday night. At least he goes broke
more frequently on Wednesday than on other
days, though he is capable of going broke any
day. Many people who have much less stable
and remunerative billets than Holman’s have
been waiting anxiously to know what the
prospects may be. They have heard rumors
of new taxation. They have also
heard about schemes for floating short-dated
loans at as much as 6 per cent. There is
evidence in the monthly Treasury returns
that the State, after increasing taxation on
a very large scale in a time of peace and
prosperity, is building up an even _ larger
shortage than usual, and that, despite the
fact that it has lately run the borrowing
business up to something like £10,000,000
a year, it is living to a remarkable extent on
bank overdrafts and trust funds. And a
ioyous intimation has come to hand that
the Government, which hardly knows a field
of oats from a crow, thinks of investing
£1,000,000 in a great job of growing wheat
in drought-time, by labor paid at city trades-
union rates. Where it will get the
£1,000.000 nobody knows.
But about plain, hard economy and some
plain, hard schemes for raising revenue or
creating new assets in the way that will
bear least heavily on the people, there has,
so far, been very little information. Hol-
man remains just Holman —the sketchy,
adventurous politician who believes that
things will last his time. His own salary
hasn’t been reduced. His devices for spend-
ing money are as glorious as ever. He still
goes on the principle that sufficient for the
day is the slump thereof. Yet it is quite
possible that the war has only commenced,
and in such a case there is need for a man
with a long outlook —not a man who is con-
tent to float a .three months’ loan to go on
with.
At this time the illegal strike habit should
be sat upon with the weight of all the pyra-
mids of Egypt. \Vhen the N.S.W. farmer
has been ordered to sell his scanty wh r at
crop at less than current rates, the other
kind of worker, who wants to sell his com-
modity at more than current rates* should be
told in a strenuous fashion to go to the
Arbitration Court —or else to gaol. Such
a course might make the Ministry unpopu-
lar, and it might lose Holman his job, but
N.S.W. doesn’t exist entirely for the pur-
pose of supplying Holman with a job. If
that person can’t bhy sufficieht votes to keep
him in his high-salaried position save by
selling posterity into bondage to the foreign
Private Enterprise money-lender; and by
winking at breakage- of the law by his own
supporters; he had better quit the scene.
What kind of a living he could make when
he travelled on his own merits, and had no
£10,000,000 per annum of loan money to dis-
pense, it is hard to say. That is his own
affair. A country with so much debt behind
it, and such dubious prospects in front of
it, requires to economise labor and every-
thing else. And strikes are a lamentable
waste of labor; quite apart from the fact
that they bring the cherished principle of
industrial arbitration into contempt. The
latest thing of the kind was an effort by
certain marinfe stokers, who worked under
an award supplied by their own Court, at
the instance of their own Government; to
make a cornet or trust or lock-out in their
commodity of coal-shovelling. The occasion
was singularly inappropriate, for work has
a great tendency to diminish on its own
account; without assistance of this sort.
* * - * *
A great deal is heard these days about the
need to eliminate the middleman. When a
community is taking in sail the needless and
unproductive variety of middleman is a
luxury that it can’t afford. The bookmaker
is hereby recommended as a person who is
neither useful nor ornamental. He may
be a pardonable luxury when times are
good, but he is an absurd burden when times
are bad. The tote would do his work at
one-tenth of the cost, and would yield the
State a handsome revenue to boot. The
community would also get a better return
for its sinful bet on the unreliable horse,
and it would still have its pleasant Saturday
diversion* Something, also, might be done
with the very numerous city hotel which
doesn’t supply board and residence; but is a
mere drinking shop or beer abyss. Its position
is wholly illegal, and it is a waste of good
ground floorage and good beer-money_ and
good barmaid. The lady may be pictur-
esque, but in a hotel of the sort described
she is a costly and useless interloper between
the rum keg and the public thirst. The
individuals who underwrite our loans in
London, at very heavy commission, and the
London banks which charge a heavy com-
mission for paying the interest, are some
more costly middlemen. The State Govern-
ment has no direct control over the tariff,
yet its members have some influence in the
matter. And if they used that _ influence
towards the elimination of the importing
disease —the disease whereby the importer
(who is often a foreigner), and the
ship (which is mostly, foreign), and
the marine insurance co. (which is
usually foreign), and the indent agent
(named Schmidt as often as not),
and the broker (probably Gottschalk),
and the bank (which is very likely owned in
London), intervene between the manufac-
turer and the consumer —they might help to
save a trifle of money. Again, a good many
hundreds of men —railway employees of. one
sort and another —are kept doing middle
work of a wholly useless kind by the policy
which requires that the exports of two-thirds
of N.S.W. must be dragged for 100 or 200
or 300 miles further than is necessary in
order to reach a port. And the coal and
oil and grease and wear and tear involved
in these superfluous journeyings also repre-
sent the middleman in an aggravated form.
* * * *
It is essential to remember that this is
no time for high-flown moralities. Britain
itself seizes horses and carts and motor-cars
on its highways. Its allies do the same
things, and also gamble in forced loans and
all manner of wild devices. Its enemies do
all these things, and do plain highway rob-
bery in addition, by levying almost impossi-
ble contributions on occupied towns. If
N.S.W., or any other State, or the Aus-
tralian Government started public lotteries
by way of bringing some scrap of money
into the Treasury they would still be quite
as pious as circumstances allow. Even a tax
on church collections would be justified, or
a stamp duty on top hats. The great essen-
tials are (1) to make the finances balance;
(2) to get into a position which will enable
the country to do without loans; and (3) to
get together some kind of a cash surplus for
emergencies. The emergencies haven’t really
commenced vet. The position of France,
which has sent most of its manhood to the
war, and has lost its grand old cathedral of
Rheims, is pitiable enough, but still France
lives on its own resources. It isn’t depen-
dent pn the forbearance of a Hebrew in
Tobolsk or Timbuctoo. If N.S.W. lost all
its cathedrals and also lost Sydney, it would
still be better off than it is, provided that, at
the same time, it lost Holman, and the
borrowing habit, and the chronic deficit, and
the grand old foreign debt.
One of Premier Holman’s problems is the
finding of work for the people. Just at pre-
sent wheat-growing doesn’t pay by reason
of the drought. Also, wheat-growing never
pays well enough to allow of Sydney trades-
union hours and wages —partly because the
price of the article is fixed in a foreign,
cheap-labor market, partly by reason of the
congestion of the railways which lead to the
only port at which export is allowed, and
partly because of the awful congestion on the
wharves at that port. Also, the Government
has always alleged that it has no great area
of wheat land available, and its attitude in
this matter has been very rough on the
humble toiler who wanted a scrap of soil.
Furthermore, Premier Holman doesn’t know
how to grow wheat. Incidentally, he hasn’t
got the money for the great experiment. And,
as a side issue, wheat-growing isn’t on the
party programme, while decentralisation and
railway construction and the public owner-
ship of land are. If the Holman conglomer-
ation resumed a great area about
Port Stephens and Twofold Bay, where
land is always cheap, and is now even
cheaper than usual by reason of the drought
and the depression; and built two scraps or
railway and some wharves, and promised
that the hew settlements wouldn’t be killed
Sydney influence as Boydtown was, it
could start & pair of cities- that tvould rival
Sydney without doing Sydney any harm.
That is to say, it could lease the city sites,
and then sit back and collect the rents. Ike
experiment would cost about half the amount
which is required for the State wheat-
growing dodge. It would develop a large
extent of country that is now dead, or there-
abouts, and practically double the productive
area of the State, It couldn’t be killed by
drought. It would be permanent, and wheat
ish’t: The profits would increase year by
year, whereas wheat is here to-day and gone
tb-morroW. Eveh HolmAN; however little lie
mfly know about agriculture or eVen about
law; is capable of collecting rents, whefi lie
has an agent to do the work fflr him. This
matter is suggested to a Government which
wants to find new sources of revenue as
something worthy of consideration, assuming
that the Government isn’t too deeply com-
mitted to the policy of doing everything that
isn’t on its programme and nothing that is
on its programme.
* * * *
A lot of advice similar to the above might
be addressed to the other State Premiers of
Australia. Holman is specially selected
because he is less likely to profit by wise
counsel than any other politician except per-
haps the awful and impossible Scadpan, of
Westralia; and Scaddan doesn’t signify. In
other words, llolman receives special atten-
tion aS the most hopeless case on record. —
Yours, etc., Solomon Malaprop.
THE FIVE DISSENTIENTS.
Five members of the House of Representa-
tives— Anstey, Burns, Catts, McGrath
and Yates —voted against the proposal to
grant £lOO,OOO in aid of our burned-out
Belgian allies on the ground that the money
is required to help unemployed folk in Aus-
tralia. It seems a sorrowful business, and
a seriohs reflection oil the borrowing habit,
or the semi-Freetrade habit; or on something,
that this country should be suffering from
lack of employment. It is mentioned in its
own Federal statistics as a place which pro-
duces alunite, antimony, asbestos, bismuth,
coal, copper, diamonds, gold, gypsum, iron,
kaolin, lead, manganese, molybdenite, opal,
platinum, radium, scheelite, shale, silver, tin,
wolfram, zinc and other gems and minerals
too numerous to mention. In the matter of
gold alone it has dug out nearly £600,000.000
worth at one time and another; and though
the business has somewhat faded, our land
still produces over one-tenth of the world’s
gold supply. Then there are the “magni-
ficent natural resources” of which so much
has been heard, and said, and even blithered.
Australia has more land per inhabitant than
any other white man’s country on earth, and
land is supposed to be something of an asset.
It is the boss wool region, and meat region,
and hide and skin region. It has a vast
amount of cheap water power in Tasmania,
and North Queensland, and the Northern
Territory, and Westralia, and Victoria, and
in the southern part of New South Wales,
though very little use is made of the power.
In fact, so far as regards the southern part
of New South Wales, it was decided by a
crowd of parish-minded legislators that the
water-power was a curse and a thing to be
avoided, lest great manufactures should arise
a: the Australian capital. So the capital site
was shifted to a place where there is no
water power, in order that it might be a dead
loss, and a constant tax on the loan funds,
and its manufactures might not interfere
with the importing habit.
* * * *
Australia hasn’t been struck by a single
shell. It hasn’t paid an indemnity, or seen
one alderman hanged by the invaders, nor
has Boggabri been burned, or Mayor Tunics,
of Dandaloo, been held as a hostage, or fined
2s. 6d. or disembowelled. The “natural
resources” being as good as ever, and the
people as good as ever, and foreign competi-
tion in manufactures having been wholly
knocked out as regards Belgium and Ger-
many and Austria, and partly knocked out
in the case of Britain, France and Russia;
also the demand for foodstuffs and other raw
materials being almost unprecedented,
because most of our rival wheat-growers are
out shooting one another, this should be our
great time. Australia ought to be fattening
on other people’s misfortunes, like the wolves
which follow the Russian armies because
they have heard that there is dead German
lunch ahead. Possibly the difference lies in
the fact that the wolf doesn’t export raw
material, or import manufactured goods, or
depend on foreign loans. He is a self-con-
tained animal, as Australia would be save
for its Freetraders and loan-mongers and
importers and anti-immigrationists. He is
ready to take advantage of any chance that
turns up.
There are five Representatives, as already
mentioned, who declare that this allegedly
great and wonderful country, which has
produced £600,000,000 in gold within the
lifetime of people who are not yet quite dead,
and has little to show for it save £300,000,000
of public debt and a very considerable
amount of private debt, can’t spare £lOO,OOO
to aid a friend who has sacrificed his coal-
scuttle and his shirt and even his infant for
a cause in which the existence of Australia
is largely involved. An inquiry ought to be
held into the exporting and importing and
foreign-loan disease, or any other disease,
which has brought Australia to this pass.
A large and peaceful and very rich country,
which is capable of producing and manu-
facturing everything required by man and
woman shouldn’t slump at such short notice.
If the five dissentients had said that the
trifling sum shouldn’t be paid that would be
a different matter. But to say that a whole
continent can’t afford to pay it is a reflection
on our management of things. There are
five continents in this world —or six, if North
and South America are reckoned separately.
Unless this is the worst-governed place of
the lot the inference is that the whole world
can’t raise £600,000 even when all its hopes
and prospects are at stake.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Federal Notes and Cheers.
IS view of the fact that a New South Wales
Labor organisation recently suggested that
the Australian Government should finance
its war troubles by a greatly enlarged issue
of paper money, this item, from the State
Parliamentary reports, is specially interest-
ing :
SOLDIERS’ PAY.
Colonel Onslow called attention to the fact that
members of the expeditionary force were being paid
with Commonwealth notes, which were not legal
tender outside Australia. He suggested that they
should be paid in gold; (CHEERS.)
The Premier suggested that the representations
should be made tb the Commonwealth Government.
It was no part Of their function to deal with Federal
actions;
The soldiers haven’t started yet (or at least
they hadn’t started when the Colonel
made his few remarks). They are
spending their pay in Australia at present,
and a great many of them will presumably
leave with their wives and families and rela-
tives any surplus pay which they may have
on hand when they do start, or else deposit
in the Savings Bank the fragment which
remains. If any soldier wants to take all
his pay with him, so that some German
looter may find it in his clothes when he
perishes at the storming of Berlin, he can
easily change his Australian notes into gold
before he gets away, or he may even change
them on board ship. Onslow's appeal is
simply one more of the hundred devices
which are employed by Tory politicians and
writers and papers, to cast discredit on an
Australian financial scheme which doesn’t
involve foreign borrowing and the paying of
heavy interest to foreign capitalists—many
of them Germans. It is almost the only
financial scheme of the sort which Australia
possesses, and it appears to be specially hated
by Toryism in consequence. The problem
stated by Onslow is said to have been greeted
with “(CHEERS)”. The names of the
people who cheered are not given, but if
Kaiser William had been present he would
assuredly have cheered also. Likewise he
would probably have thrown his spiked hel-
met into the air, and wouldn’t have cared
one pfennig if it had never come down dgaiit.
The loss of a spiked helmfet wofild Have been
ft smdll matter in the circumstances. A
stronger man than Premier Holman, ana a
taan with a wider Australian outlook, might
possibly have told Onslow not only that the
matter of the Australian forces didn’t con-
cern an obscure State politician, but that
it was a sample of darned impudence to
interfere with it, and that to interfere on
the anti-Australian side was a very unwise
proceeding at this juncture. He might even
have explained to Onslow that Australian
gold is no more legal tender in the countries
where the war is raging than Australian
paper, and that this fact made his veiled
attack on the solvency of the Commonwealth
note look like plain malice or plain ignor-
ance. But Holman isn’t a strong man.
Kingston, when he was at his best, might
have said something to Onslow which
would have made that person flee into the
backblocks and take up a selection on the
Lower Darling under the name of Jones, in
order to conceal his identity.
«
The “Conscription” Principle Comes
Into its Kingdom.
The war has killed or half-killed a number
of Conservative causes. Freetrade —the in-
sanely altruistic policy which has done so
much to build up Germany’s strength at the
expense of the British Empire—has few
defenders left. The citizen who now had a
contemptuous word to fling at the Australian
Fleet, would be regarded, even in the Tori.est
club, as an imbecile as well as a disloyalist.
But the most utterly stultified “Liberal” of
the lot is the anti-“conscriptionist.” Who
would have imagined, a few months ago, that
by October 12, 1914, Sydney Evening News
would be discoursing in this fashion? —
Belgium has suffered because of its lack of compul-
sory and universal service....
It has also suffered because Britain has neglected
to arm her whole manhood.... However, the lesson
that ought to have been learned long ago is being
learned now.
As regards the last sentence, the trouble is
that, owing to the self-satisfied blitherings of
papers like the News, compulsory and uni-
versal service has been delayed perilously
long in Australia, and is still waiting to be
born in the United Kingdom. An army takes
a deal of making. The most difficult problem
which faces the organisers is neither tc
collect the rank and file nor to train them,
but to manufacture the officers. The fact
that the Germans have special corps of
sharp-shooters to pick off their enemy’s
officers amounts to a recognition on their
part that the latter are more or less irre-
placeable. One officer is needed, roughly,
to 30 men, so that about 16,000
officers will be required for Kitchener’s
proposed army of half a million. Now, a
modern officer is as much a specialist as a
doctor or a lawyer. He must have a heap
of mathematical and scientific" knowledge;
he must be acquainted with aeroplanes and
their possibilities, also motor-cars and
-bicycles, ordinary bicycles and balloons. He
must know something about the instal-
lation and working of field telegraphs
and telephones. He must be able to
help, when needed, in the direction
of clothing and feeding his men. And
all this is in addition to the technical
information which he is required to absorb
as a matter of course, and it is in addition,
also, to the indispensable knack of handling
men in a social way. It is not astonishing,
in all the circumstances, that a couple of
years’ hard training is required to transform
the intelligent civilian into one who is com-
petent to lead troops in the field. There is
no profit to be got from moaning, in the
News’ fashion, over the might-have-been.
Plainly it never can be now, and the next
best thing for the British Empire is, accord-
ingly, to get a move on where it was admit-
tedly remiss in the past. There is a com-
fortable theory prevalent in most of our
great public-houses that after the horror now
raging Bellona will go out of the business.
It is an idea which always has existed when
war raged with unusual violence, and it has
always proved fallacious and always must
so. long as man remains combative and


acquisitive. The next imitation of Arma-
geddon may be provided by China against
the Caucasian races.' The development may
be a long way off, but since it is the imme-
morial tendency of the Asiatic to surge west-
v. ards, the world is bound to see it some day.
In that dark period the Anglo-Saxon who
knows as little of the art of w r ar as the
average member of the race does to-day, will
wish he were dead. And the chances are
that his Avish will soon be gratified.
Capturing Germany’s Trade.
J. M. Joshua, of Melbourne, heaved this
solemn truth at the Yic. Chamber of Manu-
factures the other day :
All this talk about varied and elaborate methods
or capturing- Germany’s trade is so much waste,
mere is only one natural, direct and effective way
ot capturing Germany’s, or any other country’s, trade.
instance, Australia wanted to capture the
piano-making trade—if it wanted to make pianos
instead of importing the £300,000 worth it annually
akes frorn Germany—the only thing necessary was
to have sufficient tariff protection, and the rest would
tolJow. Inquiries by commissions, public discussions
and academic discourses are merely talking round the
subject and touching it nowhere.
For the moment the war has indirectly given
Australia’s manufacturers and prospective
manufacturers a prohibitive tariff on many
lines of merchandise. But that advantage
is not going to last for ever. The din of
battle will not have died down before Ger-
many will be making superhuman efforts to
its lost business in Australia, as
elsewhere. Sentimental considerations won’t
be a bar to that aim. They never are in
such circumstances. At present, of course, a
man wouldn’t be seen dead buying a Benz
motor-car. Human nature is so painfully
trail, however, that within a month of the
ending of the present horror the same citizen
would not look at an F.N. —which used to
be the product of martyred Belgium—if lie
were offered an equally good Benz for a ten-
pound note less. If Australia really wants
to hit Germany good and hard —if it wants
to deal that arrogant land a blow that will
hurt in all the years to come—it will best do
it by bumping up its tariff to the exclusion
or pianos, motor-cars and all other goods
that are of Teuton extraction. The more it
helps to build up its own industries, the
® or e it will be helping the harassed old land
to which it owes so much money; and the
fewer industrial opportunities it leaves to
Germany, the harder it will be for that
nation to arise out of the mud of its own
making. The institution of a genuine Pro-
tective policy is good patriotism as well as
good business at the present juncture.
Party Government and the War.
It is fairly clear now that the French and
British Governments have for years past
been waiting for trouble from Germany with-
out taking adequate measures to prevent it,
or making full preparations to meet it when
it came. They had the information; but
Party considerations deterred them from
recofnmending sufficient expenditure in mili-
tary armaments. Britain’s Government
certainly contrived to get Dreadnoughts built
on the old “rule-the-waves” ticket; but Lord
Roberts’s bitter cry for more soldiers was
ostensibly treated by the Asquitii Govern-
ment as the vaporing of a false-alarmist,
because Ministers were not prepared to adopt
it as a party cry. When war broke out the
full strength of the Government’s knowledge
was revealed, in the astounding announce-
ment that Britain would have to send an ex-
peditionary force across the Channel. “To
defend the neutrality of Belgium,” thought
the man in the street; and the truth was
not out till General French’s expedition
landed at Boulogne. After that came
Kitchener’s explanation of what the War
Office hoped to do, his talk of the Allies im-
proving their position as time went on, prac-
tically giving away the fact that France
then needed a lot more army than it could
put in the field, and that every little aiding
force from anywhere would be necessary to
save Britain from an extension of the Ger-
man menace to the Belgian, Dutch and French
coast line. If Kitchener’s policy speech
left the denser section of the public in
doubt as to how matters stood, the bellicose
German press soon cleared the doubt away.
At first, everybody but the Governments had
been taken by surprise. Thev knew what
was coming—or, at any rate, they knew
something about it. The occupation of Bel-
gium, the kerosene-sprinklers for conflagra-
tion purposes (intended for France, but
prematurely brought to light in poor little
Belgium), the storage of cement by genial
Teutonic residents of the countries to be
invaded —these were things which perhaps
they didn’t know. Had they known every-
thing, not even their precious party politics
might have kept them dumb to the truth.
As it was, the world was allowed to remain
in pitiable ignorance of the inevitable. Know-
ing 20 years ago what they know to-day of
Germany’s purpose in militarism and
navalism (which purpose hasn’t altered one
jot in the meantime), France and Belgium
and Britain should have forced the Bully
to stop, or fight the matter out there and
then. It could have been done. Party
politics would have been subordinated to
patriotic considerations, as they now are,
had the nervous Governments talked blunt
common-sense to the nations, instead of fool-
ing along in the old diplomatic way. The
case against Germany was something to be
frankly stated in a stern, official style; and
if it had been stated, the Governments that
knew what must come if Germany was
allowed to go on preparing for Napoleonic
conquest would have been simply driven to
give the Kaiser the option between reason-
able disarmament or mortal combat within
three months. But Party Government feared
to take the risk —feared to appeal to
national common-sense, for the reason that an
unscrupulous Opposition was certain to have
raised a howl. Now, when Germany’s un-
checked militarism has got to work, Party
Government can only tearfully protest that
the same thing shall not be permitted to
occur again. But it will occur again, and
will go on occurring so long as ever Party
Government prevails.
—— ♦ ——
The Latest Anti-Referenda Argument.
Sydney Telegraph, being a Liberal journal,
which is to say one whose chief aim is to
delay legislative change of any sort for as
long as possible, is opposed to a‘ re-sub-
mission of the Referenda questions by the
Australian Parliament. It has dropped its
old arguments about the horrors of Unifica-
tion and the infamy of an arrangement
under which every fruit-barrow in the Com-
monwealth may be nationalised. These
belong to the dead and buried days when
the Australian Defence policy was claimed
to be a manifestation of disloyalty to
Britain. The very latest anti-Referenda
gag runs this way:—
The war is still in progress, its upshot still for the
future to decide. The people are deeply preoccupied
with affairs of vital, significance to them, and are
neither inclined nor able to give the necessary atten-
tion to local political discussion.
Australia has just elected a Parliament for
three years, on party lines, in face of Kit-
chener’s intimation that the war may be
going strong when the Parliament in ques-
tion is dead. Kitchener seems to have
mentioned three years, because it was de-
cided to ask volunteers to sign on for that
period—the average volunteer, no matter
how patriotic, being averse from becoming
a soldier for an indefinite time. The war
may, however, last much longer. Wars
have endured for 30 and even 100 years.
The Telegraph, in the article under notice,
discusses what would happen “if the war
should result adversely to Great Britain.”
But the basic explanation of the stolid calm-
ness which is noticeable all over the British
Empire is the conviction that the war can’t
result adversely to Britain. Even though
Belgium were wiped off the map tempor-
arily, and France were beaten to its knees
and forced to stop, and Russia were bought
off, Britain would still have to go on while
the Germans have a footing anywhere
between Cherbourg and the Zuyder Zee.
Britain’s sea power is at stake ; and what-
ever happens on the Continent, Germany’s
deepwater trade is going to be ruined, and
Germany’s cautious navy is going to be har-
ried tirelessly, till Britain’s supremacy is
established. Even if Germany were not
likely to be exhausted, financially and other-
wise, before its troubles on land come to
an end, its chance of. coping with the
British navy is an almost pathetically slim
one. There is, nevertheless, every . indica-
tion that it means to try its luck in this
direction some day, and the whole situation
points to a lengthy as well as a desperate
struggle. _ And all that Liberalism has to
suggest, in the circumstances, is that Aus-
tralia, after it has despatched as many
troops to the scene of bloodshed as it can
afford, shall subside inertly into an arm-
chair and look on! The fact is, Australians
have for the last two months allowed them-
selves to become “deeply preoccupied with
affairs of vital significance,” far more than
is nationally healthy. Special war editions
of the newspapers, and frenzied military dis-
cussions in bars are permissible enough for
a while, but no rational country wants to
make a habit of them. It would be all the
better for Australia if it was encouraged
to turn its attention a little from the war,
in which it can’t assist much more than it
has done, and focus the same on its own
local business. Such a move would be all
the better in the long run for Britain* too.
Half a dozen years ago the Commonwealth,
snurning the protests of Liberalism, insti-
tuted local defence, and Britain has gained
immensely thereby. It has now an oppor-
tunity to institute a system of commercial
defence, and if it seizes' the chance one of
the chief winners will again be the United
Kingdom. The Australian people will help
very effectively in that direction by giving
an affirmative answer to the Government’s
Referenda proposals. As a natural out-
come of the upheaval in Europe, the TJ.S.
Trusts have already started to butt in and
collar Australian markets. If Australia
remains "deeply preoccupied” with the' war,
to the exclusion of “local political discus-
sion,” the business left for our relatives and
allies on the other side of the earth will be
hardly _ worth mentioning. The sort of
patriotism which consists in reading the war
news and then giving three cheers for King
and Empire, is easy and typically Liberal'.
The Labor way is more strenuous, and less
thrilling _ and picturesque. It consists,
roughly, in starting, without delay, to build
up local industries, in which Britishers may
get jobs, and in discouraging the institution
in Australia of U.S. Trusts, whose opera-
tions are aimed impartially against the
world —Britain included. It is to be hoped
the Australian' Government speedily givx's
the electors the chance to show which variety
of Imperial patriotism they prefer.
The Birth-rate Bogey Again.
“Henry Horsecollar” writes:—
In 1851 it is estimated that what was then France
and what is now Germany were about equal in
population, so far as the rather inaccurate statistics
of the time went. Since then, France has grown
larger by the annexation of a bit of what was once
Sardinia, and on the other hand it has grown smaller
by the loss of considerable territory to Prussia. On
the whole, it has become smaller. Germany has
become larger by reason of annexations from France
and Denmark —at least, Prussia, the boss German
State, and the one which owns the capital and the
emperor, has grown much larger, for it took practi-
cally all the annexations as its own share of the
loot. Bavaria gained a scrap of territory, but the
humbler German States of Baden, Wurtemberg and
Saxony were all robbed by the glorious Prussian, and
he took Hanover and some minor German princi-
palities bodily. Prussia had 18,000,000 people in
1861, and no less than 40,000,000 in 1910. The
German Empire had 65,000,000 people in 1910,
while France, the alleged land of the “empty cradle,”
had less than 40,000,000. France had dropped
behind badly in the race for overcrowding, and suffo-
cation and dependence on imported food supplies.
It was quoted by fools as a horrible example of race
suicide, though its population kept increasing—but
very slowly.
Yet France, where the people have room to breathe,
is putting up a much better fight against Germany
than it did in 1870-71, when the numbers were more
equal. The Belgians, who occupy the most crowded
country in Europe except Saxony, have put up a very
decent engagement. The English, who come next
in the matter of sleeping on top of one another, have
done well so far as they have gone. So have the
Irish, whose hungry land is steadily losing popula-
tion. Ditto the Scottish Highlanders, whose country
has been growing more empty for many years. The
Russians, with the most thinly-peopled land in
Europe, and about the biggest birth-rate in Europe,
have knocked large holes in things. One way and
another, it is hard to decide whether the- dense
population or the empty cradle is the best military
element. '
On the present appearance of things, the Allies
are going to win. They include, as already hinted,
the country with the second thickest population;
the country which ranks third in density; the one
white man’s country on earth which is steadily
losing population; the notorious land of the empty
cradle; and the most thinly-peopled land in Europe,
which is also the land with the biggest birth-rate.
These confused facts are reiterated lest the reader
should lose the run of them. On the other hand,
the Austro-German enemy includes in its ranks the
country with the very thickest population ; the land
with the second biggest birth-rate, and the land-with
the second-largest number of hogs to the square mile
—also the one with the largest production of beer.
The greatest hog-raising country in proportion to its
area is on our side, also the one with the highest
death-rate.
The weary old population problem has a poor show
amid these conflicting elements, but two things are
certain: Austria and Germany are better qualified
for a big war than they were 40 years ago because
they have far more people. And they are much
worse fitted for a long war than they were 40' years
ago because their population has increased so greatly
that it can no longer feed itself, and anybody who can
cut off the food imports can starve two empires out.
To-day the army of the nation with the thinnest
population and the biggest birth-rate is putting up
a great fight to junction with the forces of the
nation which has the biggest death-rate and the
greatest number of pigs to a certain allowance of
space. And if they meet at Budapest it will be
rough on the country that is ruled by the Oldest
Inhabitant (if he isn’t dead), and the adjacent coun-
try which is ruled by the Maddest Inhabitant.
Thereupon the country with the thickest population
will probably desert its ruler, the Maddest Inhabi-
tant ; after which anything may happen. Hereabouts
the writer grows weary of complication and reitera-
tion, and of the falling hog-rate and the empty
pig-sty, and he goes out to drink some steak and
onions.
-♦ :
Rahab and Co.
The annual reports of Dr. W. E. Jones,
Victorian Inspector-General of Insane, and
Dr. Gamble, of the Ivew Asylum, are docu-
ments that ought to have more attention
than they will get. Last year, according to
Dr. Jones, the registered - lunatics in the
State increased by 157; and, as “many more
cases of congenital defect than was previ-
ously suspected are caused by the inherit-
ance of the syphilitic taint, what is more
to be desired than a cure for general
paralysis is a means for the prevention of
venereal disease.” Dr. Gamble, for his
part, declared that "“too much importance
has been .-attached to alcoholism as a cause
of insanity.” The opinions of these experts,
taken in conjunction, constitute an interest-
ing commentary on the public attitude to-
wards two brands of evil. The drink evil
has been more overworked by amateur socio :
legists than any other. It has been pointed
to as the cause of poverty and disease when
more often it has beeh merely the result of
these ; things. Alcoholism may produce
wasters, but, except in rare cases, it does
not injure the health of innocent persons,
Yet the drink curse can be sold only in
places that are licensed, under conditions
that are strict and numerous, and the person
who transgresses these conditions is in
danger of having taken from him the means
by which he lives. On the other hand, the
much more terrible syphilis curse is almost
boycotted by social reformers ; they not only
refrain from grappling with it, but often
even decline to recognise its existence. The
idea that brothels should be licensed the same
as pubs is howled down, on the alleged
ground that this would be “giving official
recognition to sin” —as though sin would
worry if it wasn’t recognised. Bung is
compelled to supply his clients with pure
beer; but neither the Pure Foods Act, the
Thistles Act, the Hackney Carriages Act
or any other old measure compels Rahaß
to take similar precautions. If Lais be-
haves herself in an objectionable manner
she has not a license which can be endorsed,
and therefore she is in no danger of losing
her living; at the worst, she is shooed into
another street or suburb to enlarge the area
of her evil influence. And the reason of
this policy, it seems, is that Rahab, being
very liable to be a genuine, nasty, insanitary
curse, the ecclesiastical Oiiadband and
political Stiggins alike shrink from dealing
with her, preferring to devote their atten-
tion to a picturesoue, melodramatic and
largely-bogus curse like the Demon Derink. '
«
“Hexham” takes a cheerful view : : —
My theory, is that the German-Austrian resistance
will collapse as suddenly and unexpectedly as that of
the Confederate States, in 1865.
Though very hard pushed during the siege of
Paris in 1870-71 —so hard pushed indeed that only
the release of Frederick Charles’s army on the fall
of Metz and its 30-miles-a-day march to Paris saved
the raising of the siege—Germany never had much
over a million soldiers in France. This was about
one in 40 of the population at the time, exclusive of
home garrisons. If it be true .that William has now
put into the field on the two war frontiers 4l
millions, one in 16 of the inhabitants must have been
sent to the front. To keep that army afloat for three
or four months another million men must be found.
Can he do it? No modern civilised manufacturing and
commercial nation has ever maintained under arms
even for a very short period one in 16 of its popu-
lation, and one in 13 seems quite out of
the question. On the other hand, while
France must experience a similar difficulty in
maintaining its strength in the field, Russia’s legions
are practically innumerable; and Britain, with the
help of the dominions and India, can for a long time
continue sending detachments across the Channel or
through the French Mediterranean ports. Also, while
the Allies (bar Belgium) have free communication
with the world outside, and can, to a large extent,
carry „ their ordinary industries, Germany and Aus-
tria are absolutely cut off, except for what little busi-
ness can be done through Holland and Switzerland.
The Germans are supposed to be a stubborn lot;
but the collapse of Prussia after the single battle of
Jena-Auerstadt in 1806 has no parallel in history
for many hundreds of years. That of France after
Sedan was nothing to it.
Finally, the Prussian is nowhere loved in the
Fatherland outside of his own territory, least of all
in Bavaria, and one German in every 10 is a
Bavarian. Is it so unlikely that, in the event of
the Germans being forced back over their own fron-
tiers, in a war originating purely with the Prussian
king and the Prussian military caste, the other
States, indignant at the failure of the Hohenzol-
lerns and their clique, might secede and form a
South-German Confederation, possibly in conjunction
with the Teutonic (and likewise Catholic) provinces
of Austria, which seems on the eve of falling to
pieces ?
Much correspondence has appeared of late
in the Sydney papers about the neglect of
the Cook and Fisiiek Governments to hurry
on with the construction of the Australian
capital at Canberra. Unfortunately Can-
berra is its own worst enemy. It lacks the
coal and water-power which might make it a
great inland manufacturing centre. It can’t
be a gold town like Bendigo or a silver town
like Broken Hill. It isn’t a seaflort, and
though there is a seaport attached to it the
Federal authority has such a very humble
scrap of ground there that it can only hope
to build a sort of fishing village. The place
has no special advantages in the way of
agriculture. If Canberra promised, either
by reason of mines or manufactures or com-
merce, to be a great dividend-paying propo-
sition, the Government’s financial embarrass-
ments would make it hustle all the harder
with the construction job. Being regarded
as a mere luxury it is one of the matters
that are liable to be dropped in a time of
stress.
By “Solomon Malapeop” :
Melbourne begins to realise the glory of the im-
porting disease. The very old and inadequate Yan
Yean reservoir holds 26ft. of water when it is full,
but one miserable day last week it wasn’t half-full. In
fact, it contained only lift, of water, some of which
is mud. The subsidiary Maroondah supply was fading
very fast. Melbourne realised some time ago that it
must get an additional water supply, and the Board
of Shirks set to work manfully. First of all, it decided
to import the pipes, for it is the whole gospel of the
Melbourne Metropolitan Board of Shirks that it is
better to pay 6d. to the foreigner than get a better
article made locally for 6d., or even sd. Whether
any hangcr-on of the-Shirks gets a commission from
the foreigner, or whether the whole thing is merely
an expression of hatred for Australia and Australian
industry, no one seems to know. So a number of
Australians lost the jobs which they ought to have
had at making the pipes. And, as a sort of side
issue, they are to be taxed to pay interest on the
loan that pays for the foreign pipes which were
ordered so that the taxpayer who pays the interest
might lose employment. Now the war has inter-
rupted the delivery of the foreign pipes, and Mel-
bourne, after losing a good job, and incurring a big
interest liability, began to see a dry spell in its
dreams. Still, it serves Melbourne right. A
place that allows its rulers to tax it so that it may
be dry and jobless deserves to be jobless and dry.
Mater Dolorosa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Over the sea there comes,
More clear than trumpet sound —
And deadlier than the drums,
An awful Voice profound :
A Voice I must obey,
That bids me haste and prepare,
And send, by night and by day,
All that is mine, nor spare
Even to the ultimate life,
The last of goods and gear;
Dread is the Voice I hear,
Above (he noise of strife,
Above the cannon roar
It echoes round and round
To Earth’s remotest bound—
Hark !. . . .
More ! More ! More !
My sons ! My gallant sons—- v
My well-loved sons are there!
The unseen, ravening guns,
Each in a hidden lair,
With swift, unpitying stroke
Smite from above, beneath—
There the line reeled and broke;
My sons went down to death
There , where the shrapnel tore
Body and soul apart
O God—my heart, my heart!
Hark !. .. .
More! More! More!
Neither by day nor night
The sacrifice may cease;
They are flung forth to the fight
For a hopeless world’s release —
For the lifting of heavy loads—
For. the breaking of many gyves,
By alien fields and roads
My sons lay down their lives
Where the whistling bullets pour,
Where the vengeful bayonet gleams,
Where the stricken charger screams—
Hark!
More! More! More!
Anguish, famine and thirst—
Heat, rain and gripping cold —
Bolts that in thunder burst,
Blasting the strong, the bold.
Back to the primal clay,
Never so red as now!
Who taketh my sons away,
Great God of Battles, but Thou?
The spirit that moves and lives,
The essence that is Thy breath
One resolute Purpose gives
Which leads them down to —Death :
In them. I do but restore
Thy gifts— yet, shall I rejoice
At the Voice which is Thy Voice?
Hark !. . . .
More ! More! More !
Surely the end shall come
Though it be strange and far?
Shall not the guns be dumb
Under the morning-star
Of some new-risen Day,
And Peace resume her sway?
But.till that golden hour
Gilds the dark world anew,
Battle and Death devour
The brave, the kind, the true—
ihose whom Thou didst endue
With courage, strength and pride,
So that like gods they grew;
„ So , that they heard and died.
xea ! even as I now hear,
Over the trumpets clear—
Over the bellowing guns.
Sounding from shore to shore,
The insatiate Voice of War
Calling my noble sons.
Hark !. . . .
More! More! More!
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.


Hotel Steyne,
Manly Beach, N.S.W.
Facing the Pacific Ocean.
THE BRIGHTON OF AUSTRALIA*
SURF-BATHING RIGHT IN
FRONT OF THE HOTEL.
Excellent Golf Links in Close Proximity.
Hot Salt Water Baths Adjacent.
TERMS—From 11/6 Day;
£3 10s. \ T »'eek.
The “Swan-Safety” is simpler and'more reliable than any
other pen made; may be carried in any position, in any pocket,
handbag or trunk, without fear of leakage; with the “ladder”
feed, erratic working is out of the question; the nib is the
product of over 60 years’ experience; the holder is beautifully
balanced and holds a good supply of ink.
SWA
revNTPEN.
Sold by all
Stationers.
Catalogue Free an Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., London, W.C.
Australian Branch (Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings , 255 a George St., Sydney
ħ
The Melbourne Racing Carnival is in full
blast or thereabouts. And the best oracle
for a reliable tip is your own good judgment,
quickened to its best pace by King George
IV. topnoteh Scotch.*
h
Here’s
_Why
DUPLEX
BRACES
FOR MEN OF ACTION
We invite you to buy a box of “ De
Reszke ” Cigarettes and compare them
with any brand you please. Their quality
will appeal to you.
o
Deßeszke
'v 'Qo&rrfMs
O
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Gondoliers”
Royal Maud Allan
Criterion “Seven Keys to Baldpate”
Little “Lord and Lady Algy”
Adelphi “Driving a Girl to Destruction”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Picture Block Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING AVEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl in the Taxi”
Royal “The Argyle Case”
King’s “Madame Du Barry”
Princess’s “The Barrier”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Bijou Fuller-Brennan Vaudeville
Olympia & National Hoyt’s Pictures
Esplanade The Green Dandies
Wirths’ Park AVirths’ Circus
—— ♦
“The Gondoliers” was revived at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday night. One
of the dailies wrote of the “maintenance
of the best traditions of Savoy opera,” and
of the setting of “a perfect standard,” and
so forth; and other sheets blithered along
similar lines. Such talk is flagrant non-
sense. The production is fair to middling,
and that is all there is to it. The wigs
in Act 11. look as though the moths had been
at them, and the stern, controlling hand of
the economist is visible in other directions.
Edward McKeown, who plays Marco, has an
exceptionally sweet and powerful tenor, but
he is two or three stone overweight for gon-
doliering purposes, and his acting isn’t good
enough to make one forget the anomaly. Miss
Ruth Lincoln (Gianetta) is another who
always sings acceptably, but her mannerisms
rob her of some of her charm. The star per-
former of the production is Charles AValenn,
who plays the Duke. He is a sound com-
edian, with a better voice than most of his
kind, and the knack of clear articulation.
Frank AVilson is a satisfactory Guiseppe, and
the same observation applies to Miss Dorothy
Vane (Tessa). G. Villiers Arnold (Luiz)
and Albert Kavanagh (the Inquisitor).
Miss Pearl Ladd is an attractive and tuneful
Casilda, and Miss Ethel Morrison, as the
Duchess, is everything that is graceful and
attractive. The chorus, though homely for
the most nart, does the sparkling Sullivan
music justice.
* .-[: *
“Lord and Lady Algy,” with which the
Iluckler-Paget company opened its new sea-
son at the Little Theatre, Sydney, on Satur-
day, belongs to the innocuous type of frivolous
comedy that was popular a decade ago. The
chief items in this concoction of R. C.
Carton’s are: A hero, belonging to the use-
less aristocratic class, who gambles and
drinks too much, but never plays up with
women; and a heroine of the same class,
who, in her. flirtations, always manages to
keep herself out of danger. Both are, of course,
at heart, real good sorts. Then there are the
inevitable strange woman found on the
hero’s immaculate premises ; an incongruous
assortment of caricatured aristocrats; and
the misunderstandings that arise from the
presence of the strange female in the wrong
place. You are not expected to take any-
body seriously ; all you need do is to laugh.
In fact, “Lord and Lady Algy” has about as
much solidity in its plot as the average
musical play. Also, it is quite as amusing.
Lord Algy and his wife are separated. They
like each other, but they back dif-
ferent horses and smoke different brands of
cigarettes. Algy’s brother is enamored over
a Mrs. Tudway, and prevails upon Algy,
who has apparently no reputation to lose,
to allow him the use of his rooms to meet
the lady. Of course, Lady Algy, and also
Tudway, see the lady’s photograph in Algy’s
rooms and suspect the worst. There is,
necessarily, a costume ball, in the second act,
where Algy innocently further compromises
himself with Mrs. Tudway. The trouble is
that Algy arrives at this ball drunk —not
disgustingly drunk, for that would be “A
Fool There Was”; not merely pretending to
be drunk, for that would be “David Gar-
rick.” He is just humorously drunk.
According to the principles of polite comedy
a decade ago, Algy is allowed to pervade the
ballroom, insult the guests, and generally
make himself an hilarious nuisance. As
lohg as he is a humorous nuisance neither the
dramatist nor the audience nor the guests
really mind. In the third act Mrs. Tudway
once more takes refuge in Algy’s rooms ; but
her presence there is explained away by Lady
Afgy, with a lie that satisfies everybody. She
is‘a Good Sort, you see. So is Algy. He
hqs already disspaded Mrs. Tudway from her
projected elopement with his brother. There
is a host of other characters, but they don’t
much matter except to decorate the stage—
rather angularly and awkwardly—in the ball-
room scene. The arrangement of this scene
on such a small stage is, however, a triumnh
of management.
* * * *
Hugh Buckler is at his ease in a highly
congenial part. His occasional moments of
seriousness are given their full dramatic
value, and his antics, while drunk, are
sources of innocent merriment. A pity
some dramatist does not write him a play in
which he could be politely and ludicrously
drunk all through. Violet Paget is also ad-
mirably suited in a part that does not call
for any but the lighter emotions. Gerald K.
Souper supplies, as the elder brother, a wholly
delightful piece of character acting; but
Lillian Lloyd, as Mrs. Tudway, fails by not
placing sufficient stress upon the ultra-
romantic and sentimental temperament of the
character. She is much too matter-of-fact
for a “hazy dream.” Of the rest of the
long cast some are different, others indiffer-
ent ; but the comedy, as a whole, rattles on
pleasantly and amusingly enough, despite
the occasional weaknesses.
The stagecraft of “Seven Keys to Bald-
pate,” at Sydney Criterion, is full of interest-
ing, and in some cases daring, experiments.
On i of the most striking is the use made of
the one entrance to the inn. Every new
character must come through that door.
Everybody must open that door from the out-
side—and there is only one key to Baldpate.
By stressing this fact, the dramatist con-
trives to give to the shut door—with un-
known possibilities always just outside it —
an element of the highest dramatic suspense.
The mystery play continues to draw good
audiences even in these days.
•i* »Js v *!•
At Sydney Palace “The Glad Eye” is
winking like a flagship’s Morse lamp. The
signals are understood even by the most
moral, and rural deans and curates are
understood to be clamoring round the box
office for special cheap rates. The Church,
with its unfailing instinct for economy, re-
fuses even.to revel at the usual prices.
Sydney, Adelphi, having put in a fortnight’s
good work dredging unhappy females out of
the mud, will now proceed to drop them in
again, so as to be able to repeat the dredg-
ing later on. Consequently, on Friday night,
it will remove “The Ever Open Door,” and
substitute “Driving a Girl to Destruction”—
this being reckoned a lightning chucker-of-
girls-back-into-the-mud. The process will
occupy six nights only. The previous record
is 25. It may be on account of the
war that there are more girls instantly
available for chucking. Or it may be that
the mud is handier.
* * * *
Dancer Maud Allan and the three Cherni-
avskys will occupy Sydney Royal for a week,
beginning on Saturday. Maud, of the bunch
draperies, has another engagement elsewhere
with William Anderson ; but that is a day-
time show, and is being staged at the law-
courts.
*!* *!* •!•
Sydney Tivoli’s three new turns this week
are all in the superlative. Torino is the
“master juggler”; James Teddy is the
“world’s champion jumper” (and The Bul-
letin doesn’t question it J ; Miss Florence
Smithson is “The Queen of Song.” Melba,
by the way, has occasionally been accused of
this sovereignty, but the Tivoli settles that.
Personally. The Bulletin doubts whether
Miss Smithson is much more than a duchess.
Westony—the man who proves that the
piano really is a musical instrument—
Wright and Dietrich, and the Carpatii Bros,
are in their last nights; but Fatima, the
corkscrew and blanc-mange expert, and the
Four Boises are good for some time yet.
“THE GONDOLIERS ,” AT HER
MAJESTY'S , SYDNEY
“There is no probable, possible shadow
of doubt."
Communiques from other Sydney theatres
of war :
Lyric : “The Sorrows of Love,” which moves the
programme to this: “Spurned by the man who had
professed to love her, turned out to face the pitiless
world alone, Moira bravely fought against the over-
whelming influences that dragged her down... .The
thwarting of’ the brother’s vengeance is a masterly
climax.” The Bulletin leaves it at that.
Colonial : “Shorty and the Fortune Teller,”
wherein the said Shorty, persuaded that he will
become rich, tries various schemes, but winds up a
twin-brother of the N.SAV. Treasury.
Empress: “Whither Hatred Leads,” proving once
more that one girl is quite as much as one man can
manage—and sometimes more.
From to-morrow night there will be re-
duced opportunities to tango and hop-
scotch at Sydney’s Imperial Salon de Luxe.
The warm weather approaches, when a
little of these giddy exertions goes a long
way. Wherefore the Salon will be open on
Friday and Saturday evenings only.
Dorothy Vane in “The Gondoliers," at Her
Majesty's, Sydney.
“Princess Caprice,” putting in a week at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) to finish up the
season of the Royal Comics, strikes one as
being a good means to a weak end. The
first act has some more or less charming
music by Leo Fall —music of the modern
light German type, which is always sweet
but never distinctly original —and some
effective, grotesque comedy of J. Cannot.
The second act also is full of conventional
melody, but the comedy in this case is largely
shared by Phil Smith, whose giggle grows
gloomy. Still there is a reasonable strength
ol comic opera plot and a lot of ladies of
the Court in the second section, whereas
Act 111. is merely a poor excuse for an
interpolated dance and a shame-faced con-
fession that the plot has petered out. The
Prince-Regent of Thessalia is up against
the fact that the bailiff is in his place, and
salaries are five years in arrears. There-
fore he proposes to marry his niece to a
wealthy, elderly reigning idiot, in the adja-
cent principality, and get himself pensioned
off at great expense. The Princess loves
her music master —a crude, youthful bari-
tone with arms that seem to be growing out
of the sleeves of his little velvet jackets,
whilst the betrothed idiot loves the High
Chambermaid of his bride-elect, who is also
the Princess’s foster sister. Finally the
chambermaid's aged father, who resembles a
30-year-old cherub in a bleached wig, states
that the two young ladies were changed in
infancy; whereupon everything is vaguely
understood to come out right. Given a little
more magnificence and, in some ■ places, a
stronger cast, “Princess Caprice” should be
good for a popular revival in the future.
* * * *
J. Cannot’s joyous superficial fooling is
contrasted with the pretty sighing and sing-
ing of Miss Spain, whose voice, unfortu-
nately, is almost as small in proportion to
her character as the jackets and style of
Derek Hudson are disproportionate to his
manly baritone. Olive Godwin fills the bill as
the buxom singing chamberma'd," who •- is
rocked in the wrong cradle, and John RaL. ...
sings successfully in knee breeches throuc '
the cherubic-parent part. But the acting u
Ralston amounts to a polite negative.
Dorothy Brunton, as a saucy 'young angel
from Paris, happens providentially to be the
littlp sister of his Highness Phil Smith,
although he is supposed to be fully 40 years
her senior; and in this unaccountable char-
acter Dorothy requires nothing but a louder
singing capacity to make her a dream. Being
so very promising a soubrette she ought to
be granted a six months’ holiday, on double
salary, for the purpose of developing the
muscles of her voice. McCunn’s orchestra
did very nicely as a rule on the first night,
and the chorus gave every indication of being
likely to do better next time.
❖ v v
“The Barrier” bellodrama, staged at Mel-
bourne Princess’s last Saturday, appears,
from the advt., to labor under the delusion
that everybody has read the novel it was
adapted from. In such case everybody
would be disappointed to find Miss Beatrice
Day endeavoring to realise the ideal Necia,
assuming that everybody had formed an
ideal. Necia is , a youthful person who
thinks she is a half-breed squaw, and clothes
herself accordingly, but is really the daugh-
ter of a bad white, man, who gets blown ° ■
by his foe, the storekeeper, in the last ac •
Miss Day was never meant by Nature
impersonate gentle squaws, especially at tnc
present time. Were she less of an artist tn
result would be more truly squawful, bu
anyhow it is squawful enough. I■he wu
life oE Alaska, where the gold rush has dis-
turbed the honest trappers in their ruggea
innocence, furnishes local color for tu
Barrier.” Cyril Mackay, as a French-Cana-
dian, in the fur trade, is the chief frustratoi
of villainous designs. It is he who olesse*
poor Beatrice Day at the play s las
moment, when she has learned that she IS . no
squaw, and can marry Harry Sweeney wit -
out detriment to his offspring. Thus tne
Barrier” is removed. The _ play is tiui-
charged with incident, and gives scope tor
the energy of Styan, Wykeham, Beaumont,
Halley Tilton and Pressy Preston, in addi-
tion to the parties first mentioned.
❖
At Melbourne King’s the old, inexhaust-
ible watering cart, “East Lynne, ’ is
laying the dust appertaining to an
announcement that Nellie Stewart and
Co. will appear on Saturday next
(24th). Nellie will introduce “Madame
du Barry” to Melbourne, 'and reports from
Sydney promise that the introduction will
be favorably received.
SjC iji •}»
Asche Ivayton, the sleepless detective,
appeared before a big house in “The Argyle
Case” at Melbourne Royal on Saturday.
Where Sherlock Holmes would have failed
by employing inferences and cocaine, Asche
succeeded in arresting some of the cleverest
crooks by merely keeping awake and burning
cigars. During the whole of the proceed-
ings he smoked, and his army of spies and
gentlemen helps did the same thing at every
opportunity. Between puffs, also, he blew
orders down the telephone, read countless
documents, and tore around with the activity
of a terrier hunting its tail. He took finger-
prints, tapped suspected conversation by dic-
tograph, sought direct evidence by every
cross-examining method, from sweet persua-
sion to plain bullying, and generally gave an
edifying spectacle of a unique and sagacious
Mind at work. It was all tremendous, and
when he had arrested a gang of counter-
feiters and found that the murderer of John
Argyle was a stout, discreditable Cent. One,
the audience felt that Tobacco-ash Ivayton
was sufficiently marvellous to give lessons
even to the Melbourne C.I.D.
* * * *
Charles A. Milward, as the eminent inves-
tigator, is pleasing in every phase, from the
smooth wooing of the heroine to the crema-
tion of the cigars. He is an astonishingly
convincing smoker, easily the best in the com-
petition. William Harrigan doesn’t waste
genius on the part of Joe Manning, but is
good enough; and Miss Sylvia Bremer, as
Mary Masuret, decorates the character with
all the ingenuousness of a maiden who lias
been well brought up. Miss Gertrude Bos-
well presents Mrs. Martin as a figure of
gloom and tragedy and, a poisoned past;
Robert Greig reaches stentorian heights as
James F. Hurley; and Gregan McMahon
plays a weird counterfeiter with a large,
intellectual forehead and more than a sug-
gestion of John Stofel returned from the
war. Miss Maggie Moore, Miss Ghiloni,
Miss Holloway, R. Whyte, junior, Carleton
Stewart, J. H. Nunn and others put satis-
factory work into minor parts.
Some nights last week Wirths’ put their
Circus into Melbourne Hippodrome building,
out of reach of the cold snap, nut on Satur-
day the show was back in the vast Sauca Torn,
whence the gentle perfume of the polar bears
and Copbants ascended to the star-spangled
tzure. The entertainment proceeds as
before. Albert Toulouse, the balancing
Frenchman, has not yet broken any part of
himself, neither has the dare-devil Diver met
lis death. The Hassans (late of Harry
Linder’s co.) are wire-walking in the same
old way, and Mrs. Berzac’s ponies continue
to maintain their fast and furious footing on
a platform which whizzes human intruders
into space. Also, the gymnasts, acrobats,
equestrians, clowns and beasts of prey are
doing their duty in those spheres of useful-
ness where it has pleased Wirth Bros, to
place them.
An incident in the Franco-German war,
embellished in a three-reel sensation, “Lest
We Forget,” is Hoyt’s leading attraction at
Melbourne Olympia this week. At the
National, in Bourke-street, Hoyt’s pro-
gramme is most conspicuous for “Lucille
Love” (fifth instalment) ; “Schooling Mary
Ann,” a tract on the virtues of simple
pleasures; and “Leeds of Chaos,” a frag-
ment of literature for the criminal classes.


ĥ
Obtainable All Stores.
H n iS ?ii he highest grade ’ ranking first in the world for Style
’ urability and Value. Wear “WOODROW’S” always!
nabob boot paste.
the Waterproof
Boot Polish.
ONE APPLICATION WILL LAST A WEEK, A BRUSH UP
BEING ALL THAT IS NECESSARY IN BETWEEN WHILES.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Makers, Melbourne and Sydney. C 1
€
w
m
2]
Sufferers from Catarrh
according to the prescription of a celebrated Chemist
“NAZETHA”
“ The Big Cold Cure in the Little Bottle.”
Ssfastond at h g ° od Chemists ‘ Don’t take the
P In There ’ S ' n ° ne aS 00d «
JNazetha Carry the small bottle in your pocket
Snu/r I? dr ° PS ° n yOUr h-dkerchief once a day
cold and r r rS the nose ~they will cure your
totably 6 ° atarrh formation qnickly and com-
1/6
Post Free.
Wholesale—All Melbourne
Wholesale Druggists.
A. MILLER S SONS, Hokurt.
At_ Melbourne Bijou the Dare Norwoods
remain the most polished and painstaking
or strong men and balancers, while the
Bartletts continue to perform aerial marvels
without visible effort or risk. Ed Blondell
is playing the “Lost Boy” once more with
the stodgy lady assistant, and Phil Percival
is apparently burlesquing the great crime-
tracker, Sexton Blake.” Excepting for the
reappearance of the Mullaney Twins, who
are freely forgiven their trespasses, there is
nothing in the rest of the present programme
calling for either bricks or bouquets.
* * *
The only fresh arrivals at Melbourne
livoli are Rich and Galvin, the simultaneous
dancers m the neat clothes of Eton and the
burnished belltoppers. Cinquevalli is re-
appearing, and Vaude and Verne have just
turned up to stoush the Kaiser feeblv with
their mouths. A] Hermann, the "'Black
Laugh, continues within hearing, and Miss
Anna Hana is still relating the case of Mrs.
Kip V an. Winkle and putting in winks for
punctuation.
* * Si: * *
The Green Dandies are again inhabiting
their old summer residence on the Esplanade,
St. Kilda (Melb.). This season the com-
pany, now under the direction of Nigel
Brock, lately connected with the Branseombe
firm, includes Colville Dunn, a new baritone
with an unimpeachable accent and an easv
delivery. The other entertainers are as
before, Herbert Walton, Renn Millar, Harrv
Graham, and the Misses Manning, Byrne
and Henderson being the best remembered.
Arthur Mack is also present, and William
Kipeirs keeps the piano busy as usual.
* =!: * *
There is an Irish flavor about Adelaide
amusements for the moment, with Allen
Doone at the Royal and Tom Kelly still
yarning at the King’s. Bert Bailey’s co!
ended a successful season with a drama teach-
ing the valuable moral lesson that if you
want an act of heroism done, the best person
to apply to is a confirmed tippler. Two
clever,_ though unexciting, Australians are
the Misses Andrews and Dent, making music
the I vin £ s \ yet another is Queenslander
Cahill, now pianist with a fresh team of
Branseombe s Dandies at the Exhibition.
Hus new team makes a feature of dancing"
and concerted work. A remarkable King’s
turn is that of the American girls, Winter
and Field. They have it every way: Youth,
“THE BARRIER," AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
Harry Sweeney
as Burrell.
Runnion (Tom Tillon).
looks, style, voice, humor and acting-power.
Upera should be their place, surely. This
house has had two sketches—quite inoffen-
sive—in which all- parties were seen in bed
at curtain-rise. The Tivoli has a lot of
graceful and athletic dancing, and Belgian
war films are beginning to reach the “pic-
tures.
« ® ydaey Telegraph chirpily remarks that
one effect of the war has been to throw the
whole mechanism of Protective tariffism out
hLPtw In , P roof > the paper points out
that trance has suspended duties on .food-
stuffs, and that the Kaiser would not mind
having pork and beans “dumped” into Ger-
many in any quantity. It might have
remarked that another effect was to throw
the whole mechanism of British Preetrade
° at , of Sear. And Britain hasn’t felt so
™ C V S one k° stile bomb, whereas France
and Germany have been attacked by such
numbers that practically every man capable
„ beanng arms has been rushed to the front,
and thousands of acres of grain are trampled
ar burned by invading armies, and
lactones are wrecked by shells and
burned by incendiary troops. Fiscal Protec-
tion certainly doesn’t offer salvation in a
knm* ° f that e luad ’ and if the Telegraph
“°* s an / "seal policy that does, it might
S® at , 10n , ll: - B ut it is no use mentioning
ahflnr| lade a . Fr^ etrade having been definitely
fml nd i oned ™ England when the Government
var , lous exports almost as soon as
wai started, and subsidised the import of
AT POVERTY POINT.
O.lv. : Permit me to hurl the fib direct
c (w^i G a\ , azer ’” asseverates (B.
• I V'r it ta at no German music-professors
in Melbourne can possibly be anti-British,
seeing that they are them Prussian
(so he says), and all of them are married to
Australian women. Also “Gazer” states
that the writer of the Bulletin par. which
he impeaches is a person “obviously not even
lemotely acquainted with Melbourne’s Ger-
man musicians.” Donner und blitzen l I
was the writer, and I’m in a position to give
the audacious “Gazer” the names of two or
three or more notoriously anti-British music
men who proclaim in public places their
anxiety to hear der Pritish pull-dog yelp
with pain when Sliermany twists its tail.
Ihere has been no secrecy about the senti-
ments ot these men, nor is there any denial
or German sympathies by any honest Ger-
man. As to whether their birth is as Prus-
their arrogance, I am not certain;
but I think that one, at least, of the most
offensive of them is Prussian in all respects.
Australian wife and family make no
difference to their German jingoism, or if it
does make a difference I can only say that
German jingoism unrestrained must be an
awtul disease.
rr> Fro^™ ann Schrader: “Gazer’s” par.
(8.. 8/10/14) re Melbourne’s German
musicians is wrong in one respect and one
only The ‘German” musician whom he
speaks of as being the father of the Dun-
troon Military College cadet is not a Ger-
Pan I am that individual. I was born
in Australia, and my father soon after his
arrival here cut the painter absolutely with
Germany by becoming bandmaster to the
British Volunteer Forces in South Aus-
tralia a post he held for many years. If
my son and I can’t claim to be good Aus-
tralians in the circumstances, who can?
Exit the German Band in Sydney. That
noisy institution, which has worried every
corner of the city three or four days a week,
has lately been asking for trouble so regu-
larly that the Inspector-General of Police
lias commanded it to go and get work. About
a week ago, because a harmless citizen didn’t
give it sixpence for playing “Rule Britannia”
it yelled Hoch der Kaiser” ; whereupon the
citizen ceased to be harmless and stoushed
as much of it as he could reach. Authority
of course, disapproved of that, and the citi-
zen was fined and had to pay for the damage
done to all the instruments. After that
nobody cared whether the band played “Rule
Britannia or was drowned. However, it
kept going, and one day last week it took
un its stand outside the Sydney German
Giub and blared out the Austrian National
Anthem. That was the dead-end. The
police, fearing that the next step of the
daring fools would be to fill the drum with
bombs or put a wireless station in the bass
trumpet, planted their foot down; and the
German Band, being underneath the foot at
the time, was broken up into 18 pieces
r> : see the Sydney German
Hands have been demobilised on the indict-
ment of a local barrister, named Teece, who
charged one of them with playing the Aus-
trian National Anthem in his hearing Sheer
braggadocio on Teece’s part! It is hard
enough to tell what a German Band is try-
ing to play under normal circumstances •
but when it comes to distinguishing between
Nationai Anthems (the Marseillaise and
the Chinese National uproar excepted) the
effort becomes hopeless. The odds are that
the air which Teece in his musicianly arro-
gance identified as the Austrian anthem was
some quaint old Choctaw folk-song or a new
ragtime melody. The Germans’ luck is dead
out these times.
r»w rS ‘i Courtneidge, wife of the successful
musical comedy exploiter and mother of
Gieely, died in England the other week,
attei a long illness. When she first came
to Australia as a member of George Mus-
grove s Gaiety Co. she and Robert were in
their honeymoon period, and she played
minor parts as Rosie Nott. Courtneidge
was engaged for a year after the Gaiety
Go._s season ran out, and then his wife played
a domestic part and nursed baby Cicely,
xears atterwards she accompanied Court-
neidge on his holiday trip to Melbourne,
where he produced the beautiful “Midsummer
i ? i S P re „ am ” setting which Musgrove
had bought from him in Manchester. Cicely
came with her parents, and in “The Dream”
got her baptism of histrionics as Fairy
Peasblossom.
Maud Beatty, the Maoriland actress who
was with Tom Pollard years back, lost her
husband at Los Angeles (U.S.A.J during
August. His name was Jack Dawson; at
one time he was an officer in Uncle Sam’s
army, and as such went through the Philip-
pine war. He was the actress’s second try.
“THE BARRIER."
'Poleon gets
suspicious (Cyril
Mackay).
Topsy” : “Buttercup’’ wasn’t in the care
.Bessie Gray (Mrs. J. L. Hall) when
Pinafore’’ was first produced in Melbourne,
as stated by “Kaniva” (B. 1/10/’l4). Emily
Wiseman played the part. She was Mrs.
Hall in those days ; The other lady did not
acquire the title till some years after Miss
v\ iseman’s death. I know because the latter
was my sister.
“Fax”: Whilst St. George’s Hall (Melb.)
and its history are under discussion on
loverty Point, the new show-place on the
old site is being finally planned. The Hoyt
Co. has got a 30-years’ lease of a block of
land with the same frontage and depth as
the adjoining Theatre Royal property. On
this will be built a picture theatre, flanked
by a big shop on Bourke-street, and backed
by warehouses having their entrances in
Little Bourke. Architect William Pitt
reckons that five months will see the block
completed, times being favorable for uninter-
rupted work. Six months at the most should
suffice to fix up the theatre and warehouses
as going concerns. Meanwhile Hoyt’s has
to find £BO a week ground rent for the block
where the builders are at work, so Olympia
(over Princes Bridge) and the National (at
the top of Bourke-street) are pouring their
profits mostly down the sink, as it were.
Thusfar the Hoyt enterprise has prospered
wonderfully. On a recent Saturday the
audiences at the Olympia and the National
—matinees and night—totalled 8500. Who
said picture shows were played out?
Allen Doone, who has been strengthening
his banking account in Westralia, will take
Sydney into his confidence again on
November 7. His new play, “The Bold
Soger Boy, will be the first move.
.‘‘Melb’’: Our musical world is enraptured
With The Life of Wagner” made into a
picture. The representatives of Wagner,
Liszt, the King of Bavaria, Wagner’s wives
Minna and Cosima, Bulow, Wagner’s
banker-backer Funshel, and all the other
personages are just like we had been taught
to expect; and there is first-rate acting. Even
VV agner s three young children, by Cosima
are introduced—the two daughters and
sonny Siegfried with golden hair. The kid
is now Professor Wagner, who is over-
shadowed, like the sons of Goethe. (Deliver
us from a heavy father!) Cosima had two
daughters by Bulow. Then there was the
piebald one, fiercely claiming to be an illegi-
timate Wagner, while mother insists that she
is a legitimate Bulow. How irreconcilable
is the Artistic with the Bourgeois!
“N.L.”: Esther Mitchell, the young Aus-
tralian who plays Nang Ping in “Mr. Wu”
at Melbourne Princess’s, is likely to know
quite a lot about languages if things go on
as they have been doing lately. In “Wu”
she has several bits of genuine Chinese. In
“Who’s the Lady?” she was originally sup-
posed to be a French girl who had been
educated in Germany and had gradually
forgotten her own language. After she had!
learned the necessary German, the war-
stalked forth, and the school was judiciously-
shifted to Italy, which meant some study of
yet another language. A little earlier, in
“The Clash of Arms,” at Sydney Palace, she 1
had to speak English with French trim-
mings. Heaven only knows (unless perhaps;
Beaumont Smith shares the confidence)
what her next language will be. I can only
hope it isn’t Bowery American.
“Jeames’s” funeral oration :
If Germany had had a diplomatist as skilled and
painstaking’ as the Marquis di San Giuliano, who died
last week, its position would be a happier one
to-day. Wherever big Italian interests lay, there
San Giuliano went and looked into them on the
spot. In this way he came to investigate person-
ally, while he was Foreign Minister, the Balkans,
Tripoli, the Tr'entino, Albania and Erythrea. He
it was who inspired and did most to make a success
of the Tripolitan adventure which has meant so
much to Italy. To get an analogy to the case of
San Giuliano you have to picture Prince Lichnowsky,
the last German Ambassador in London, journeying
to Ulster and satisfying himself as to whether the
Nationalists were likely to turn against the British
Empire in the event of a European war. The aloof
Berliner preferred to rely on Tory newspaper lies,
and, as a result, his country fell in. The Germans
hated San Giuliano, and when he was first sent to
London, as Italian Ambassador, a queer plot, of
Teuton designed to discredit him morally
and socially, was undertaken. However, it misfired
amid a gale of laughter, as a similar Berlin scheme
to ruin young Freeman-Mitford (who married the
Friedlander-Fuld heiress) failed. The dead states-
man was a Sicilian aristocrat of French origin. An
ancestor in the dim past had been a Norman, and
San Giuliano bore an extraordinary resemblance to
the Due d’Orleans, who hopes one day to be King of
France.
Even in the worst times the idea of drag-
ging all Cornstalk affairs to Sydney is as
strong as ever. Premier Holman has pro-
pounded an inspiration about a canvas camp
on the outskirts of the city, where the
tammes of men who are working half-time
may be cheaply accommodated. And Jabez
Wright, ML A wro t e to “Dear Bill” at
Broken Hill (“Dear Bill” is W. B. Barnett
secretary of the A.M.A.), re the Broken Hill
unemployed, stating that “the general
opinion is that the people should be
biought to Sydney and a camp formed.”
Yet the perfunctory clamor about the neces-
sity for developing the great natural re-
sources of the country” is as strong as
ever. How can men develop the great
natural resources of the country if they are
loafing in tents around the blessed;
metropolis ?
By “Henry Horsecollar” :
The dash which the German army made for Calais-,
and the failure thereof, may be a definite turning
point in the war. If Calais had been taken the
Germans would have captured their first harbor
(Antwerp isn’t a harbor, so far as they are concerned
as long as the Dutchmen hold the mouth of the
i-iVOT) At Calais, or some point on the adjacent
coast, the Mailed Fist would be in sight of England
on a fine day. It could shake itself definitely at the
British Isles. If it banged its drum hard enough
the British could hear it—you can hear a drum any
distance if it is loud enough.
Then the Prussian believes, or thinks he believes
that his biggest and most wonderful gun can carrv
f nff ffu s , trait ; “ isn ’t impossible. With enough
guns of that sort (how many “enough” may be is a
huge problem), and sufficient ammunition and the
best sort of gunnery, it would almost certainly be
a,Ta- e n T u he British fleet (bar submarines
and airships, which are shifty creatures) out of the
EnfLj f“i G f“ an f ° rCe Was ferried a cross to
tw Eng ? and 1S prett y bare of seasoned troops
these days, and the fortifications on the English side
of the strait are nothing wonderful—at least, when
the present writer last saw them they looked rather
antiquated and mouldy. It would be a wild, mad
scheme of invasion, but with supreme luck it might
come off at this particular juncture, especially if the
, Car ? 6 out at the well-chosen moment and
committed suicide to keep the British navy employed
Anyhow the capture of Calais and its surroundings
looks about as good a chance for the invasion of
is ng dS, if 1 6 Prussians are lf kely to get, and it
trnfi v° f PP ° Se that ’ with 80 many other
troubles on hand, they wanted the dreary old town
thrwater. ° rder * lunar ” at Bull across
As it happened, they didn’t secure Calais, because
bab,wf ngry ,i FrenChman WaS in road. Pro
bably they will never get it now. So a magnificent
sensation is spoiled. It may be that, for 100 years
ShTn bf ( f estio " of ,, wha t the Germans meant to
do will be discussed by debating societies mock
parliaments, Young Men’s Christian Associations
p°fi,a V<llnenS ditto, Temperance Leagues and’
Rechabjte lodges, and it may be dealt with in
-chool essays, and made a feature of the great speech
River™ ° n Empire Da T by the member for Sludge
FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
a Tho . has .decorated his fourth son, Prince
August William, with the Iron Cross as a reward for
being one of the first to enter Antwerp.— Cable.
Legion of Honor of great Napoleon and Charlemagne’s
Iron Crown!
Throw the lot in the crucible, while Actor Bill melts
’em down.
Bill is playing for movies now; and the big scene
in Reel Two
Is when he decorates August Bill
Foi the Belgian child that the Prussians kill,
And all the innocent blood they spill
From Antwerp to Waterloo.
Legion of all Dishonor is theirs, pinned on with the
Iron Cross,
For a peaceful people put to the' sword, to insult,
and flight, and loss;
Mummer and Ranter William, blunderstudying Nap.
the Great!
Pinning some Krupp on Gussy’s chest,
Repeating the while “Mein und Gott’s behest” ;
Humorless to his own ghastly jest,
Deaf to the wide world’s hate!
Bill is playing for movies now, and we’ll see him
in three reels —
At his worst at murder and breaking oaths, at his
■ best when he merely steals.
In a No. 2 company at last he’ll be, to his shame
and loss,
Decorating Gussie—at Old Junee!
Maying the tank-towns—back seats free !
And one-night stands at two bob and three!
The farce of “The Iron Cross” !
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


ħ
KIT BAGS
We Pay
Carriage
Throughout
Australasia
Of Stout Cowhide. Side Lock and Clips.
Sizes: 12in„ 14in , . 16in 18in„ 20in.
Prices: 11/-, 13/-, 15/-, 1V- W-
Superior Quality.
Sizes: 12in., 14in.,
Prices: 15/-, 11/6,
16in., 18in., 20in.
20/-, 22/6, 25/-
David Joms Ltd.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
“Lcatherfiend” Suit Cass
Composed
durability,
ally light.
20 x
22 x
24 x
26 x
of a Leather. Substitute of splendid
Very smart-, strong and exception-
In Brown or Green. Shades, as follows: —
11 x 4J inches... 17/6
12i x 6§ inches 19/6
14* x inches 22/6
15f x 8 inches 25/6
h
THE
\QHAL
dV-My
••V*.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE! Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £500,000.
• - Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,404.
Directors ■ JOHN GRICE,,Esq., Chairman; H. M. ST RACHAN, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; EDWARD
TRENCHARD. Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREFORD
SYDNEY OFFICE, 60 PITT STREET. Manager, R. S. Gregson; Acct., F. Cleave.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
SOCIETY
Melbourne has been officially oi jercd to
go slow with its water. And this in October !
The large, flat city on the Yarra suffers from
the fact that its Board of Works has slept
while everything else has progressed. Mel-
bourne now “consumes” 65,000,000 gallons
a day in place of the 45,000,000 of 10 years
ago. The O’Shannassy scheme is calculated
to bring in 20,000,000 gallons a day, but
it isn’t in full going order yet, and, by
reason of the dry season and the fact that
everybody along the route of the aqueduct
wants to tap it, it won’t bring in more than
half that quantity when it is going. The
big Yan Yean reservoir usually starts the
summer with 24ft. of fluid, and when it gets
down to 14ft. the big city gets the shivers.
It is starting this summer with a depth of
just lift. So the Board stirs uneasily in its
sleep, and the Fire Brigade wonders whether
it is a fair thing to take any sleep at all.
STILL IN PRACTICE.
CONVERT (giving testimony): “ Brothers, afore I jined ther Harmy I uster swear some-
thing horful."
CAPTAIN (heartily): “Speak tip, dear friend!”
CONVERT : “Afore I jined the Harmy I uster swear "
CAPTAIN (cheerily): “Speak up, speak up, dent brother!"
CONVERT (fiercely): “Dam yer, mind yer own dash blanky busi”
(Hurried obligato by the band, with cries of “Amen,” “Hallelujah.”)
“F.W.C.”: A few days ago the dailies
recorded the alleged utterance of an alleged
warrior to this effect: "The cowardly tier-
mans are afraid of the bayonet, and sham
death when we charge them: but we stick it
into them, anyhow, and enjoy hearing them
squeal.” Now. the blithering press which
prints an atrocious statement like that is a
deadly peril to the soldier at the front. The
story is sure -to come to the ears of Hans
YV'urst, and will inspire him to stick his
lance or assegai or whatever it may he into
the fallen Britisher; and thus many a good
lighter will suffer for what is almost cer-
tainly the lie of a braggart, admiringly
recorded by a senseless press.
K * * *
“Milmeridien” : Suffering eclipse by the
war, that pushing little Hebrew, ida
Goldstein, appeared at South Melbourne
the other night, and. with another Miss—
a Miss Pankhurst, who came to Australia
to tell women that they must insist on get-
ting the vote they have already—did a
double song and dance entitled “Peace.”
The ladies —who belong to the militant
sisterhood which stuck hatpins into police-
men until war cut off the limelight —decor-
ated the platform with such legends as
“Thou shalt not kill” and “Peace on earth,
goodwill toward men.” (Of course they
misquoted, the real thing being “Peace on
earth to men of goodwill.” which is quite
another matter.) Vida related with indig-
nation that she had tried to organise a peace
demonstration with “60 clergymen.” but of
the 60 only three supported her. The other
57 apparently knew that there is no adver-
tisement for peace demonstrators just now.
Undeterred by this failure, Miss Pankhurst
moved to the effect that the workers of all
nations he called upon to demand the imme-
diate cessation of hostilities, and the sub-
mission of all claims involved to arbitra-
tion. She “believed” quite a lot of things,
and seemed to think that that ought to be
enough for anybody. She believed, for in-
stance, that Germany would not conquer
England because “it would not pay.” Or
wonders how it paid the blatant Pankhursts
and their lunatic followers to" slash pictures,
or to set fire to letter-boxes, probably with
the remittances of the poor therein —letters
whose non-delivery meant tragedy to some
woman or other. Happily, Vida and Ghns-
tabel didn’t get much of an audience. Just
now the suffragette could scarcely have a
smaller audience, even if she entered the
solemn institution of matrimony, which
would supply her with one pair of ears—
until they ran awav.
THE LONG, LONG FUTURE.
SHEARER (just arrived with his cheque and a big thirst): “Here, Jacky! Keep an eye
on my 'orse. When I come out I'll give you a bob."
JACKY: “When von come out! By cripes, I want my five bob a day, mine thin kit."
“Coot” : Another instance of the deplorable
degeneracy of Australians conies from the
Northcote (Vic.) Cricket Ground. The
ball was thrown, and seemed certain to strike
the head of a bystander, whose attention was
otherwise eneaeed. One of the cricketers,
named Wass, seeing the danger, jumped to
catch the ball just as it was on the point of
striking. The man whose head was in
danger was busy cutting up tobacco, and the
knife gashed Wass’s arm so badly that a
doctor had to insert five stitches. Later
on. when feeling a bit better, Wass returned
to the cricket ground. Just as he arrived
the ninth wicket of his team fell, and the club
still wanted 11 runs to win. He buckled on
the pads, or rather others did it for him,
and went in to try to keep his end up while
his batting partner knocked up the runs.
His team won, and Wass, with one hand,
scored nine.
“Rob”: A swarm of pugnacious ship’s
fiiemen, stirred by the tightableness of the
times, have been raising Tophet in Auck-
land. When the Pakeha came in from Lon-
don, which place she left before war broke
out, she had six shivering Germans and a
scared Austrian in her engine-room crew.
These aliens promptly fled to the police, and
indicated! that they would rather be pris-
oners of war for five years than spend
another day in the stokehold with the patri-
otic Britishers. The police, however, could
do nothing. The shipping people said that
ill the foreigners were discharged from the
ship they would have to engage men in
their places at “colonial” rates of pay, which
would be a calamity. So the miserable
enemies of Britain were again sent to the
fervent patriots below. The latter imme-
diately came on deck and informed the wide
world that they were going to work with no
blessed squareheads, and formally declared a
strike. The ship’s agents then swore out
warrants for the arrest of the patriots for
refusing duty, and next morning 23 beer-
stained subjects of the King were lined up
in court. They seemed comically resigned
to a month hard. But 'the magistrate
declared he would not convict Britishers of
such a charge under such circumstances.
The Germans and the Austrian were, there-
fore, blasphemously discharged, and, hasten-
ing ashore, barricaded themselves in a room
of the Sailors’ Rest. The firemen, on their
part, went off on a jamboree that will live
for ever in the memory of the waterside.
A couple of nights later. 40 firemen from the
Corinthic, full of patriotism (at 3d. a pint),
fell foul of the police. It was a fight in
which skin and hair, baton and bottle, wmre
inextricably mixed, and it raged over the
Queen-street wharf for an hour. Once more
there was a sweat-rag parade in the police
court, and this time the revenue of the
country benefited. Incidentally, deep regret
was expressed by two or three firemen; but
they had lost consciousness early in the
proceedings and had missed the greater part
ot the gorgeous spree. The rest seemed quite
satisfied.
* * * *
Look into this as a sample of the “war
news” we are receiving:—
London, Sunday.—The Official War Bureau
describes a former “knut,” who is a chauffeur with
the General Staff, as performing his toilet in the
morning in the open, washing his face in a saucepan
balanced upon a petrol can, brushing his hair with
an old nailbrush, and using the window of the car
in which he had slept as a looking-glass.
In short, he washed himself; and we at this
end of creation are informed of it in nine
lines and three startled scare-heads. There
is not even any novelty in his manner ot
washing himself. Thousands of Australians
wash themselves in precisely the same way
daily, year in and year out, without a ghost
or a hope ;of their ablutions getting into the
papers as interesting natural history.
“The German soldiers are in many cases
compelled to eat grass.”— Cable.
On grass the tortured Germans sup ;
But Providence soon intervenes.
Behold the kindly foe comes up,
And generously give them beans!
• “Billy Blue” : A double land tax on estates
within 15 miles of a railway was too much
for the A. A. Co., which’ accordingly
announces the subdivision and sale of
38,000 acres of the Warrali Estate, near
Quirindi (N.S.W.). This estate was one of
the grabs allowed by the British Govern-
ment in the Crown Colony days of N. S.
Wales. The A. A. Co. in 1826 selected,
after inquiry, 1,000,000 acres of land as a
grant on the northern shores of Port
Stephens. By 1830 the directors had dis-
covered that the land wasn’t what they
thought it was, so influence was brought to
bear, and Governor Darling, in May, 1830,
was instructed to allow them to exchange it
fox other land. Sir Edward Parry, the
co.’s representative, then selected a large
block at Warrah and another at Peel River,
the former 249.600 acres and the latter
313,298 acres. Meanwhile Governor Bourke
had assumed office, and he vetoed the selec-
tion, as other settlers had already squatted
on the land. Sir Edward Parry—the man
who did the Arctic exploration —referred the
matter “Home,” and Lord Goodridge, the
Secretary of State for the Colonies, over-
ruled Bourke. So the fat Pharisee got the
exchange. The Great Northern road and
railway now runs right through the estate,
and the A. A. Co. will reap no end of un-
earned increment.
THE CHEAPER WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When first the bright young lodger came
The women dogged him night and day.
The lodger liked the pretty game
And, laughing, let them have their way.
From sparrow-chirp to vesper hymn
The ‘ dear girls darned his socks for him.
The novice lodger liked it well.
At home they’d never make a fuss ;
buttons he’d been forced to yell,
And darning orders made them cuss.
The lady lodgers loved to do
His work —and they were pretty, too.
The old, case-hardened lodger saw
The worsted nets the girls had spun.
Unto the boy he wagged his jaw,
Telling him harshly to have done.
“When socks are worn, pitch ’em away !
Buy new socks! Buy ’em ev’ry day !”
N.S.V.
FOE.


EVERY DAY
mote people ate proving that
b the best washing preparation for
blankets, flannels, woollens and dainty
fabrics. Lux is scientific in its methods.
Lux coaxes rather than forces the dirt
from the clothes. Lux shortens the
work at the washtub—lengthens the
life of the clothes.
WON’T
SHRINK
WOOLLENS.
r
%
LEVER BROTHERS
LIMITED. SYDNEY.
Hotel Stewart
SAN FRANCISCO
A high-class hotel very favorably known to
travellers from Australia, New Zealand and
the Orient. Headquarters for Britishers in
San Francisco. New steel and concrete struc-
ture. Third annex just completed. 350
rooms. 250 connecting bathrooms. Every
comfort and convenience. Beautifully fur-
nished. Famous for its cuisine and service.
Located in the heart of the shopping, theatre
and cafe districts. On street car lines to all
parts of city. Our omnibuses with uni-
formed attendants meet all steamers and
trains. Travellers are urged to make reser-
vations by letter or wireless to be assured
the most satisfactory accommodation. Cable
address, “Trawets.”
Rooms with Meals, 16s. a day and up.
Rooms without Meals, Bs. a day and up.
Charles A. Stewart and Margaret Stewart
Proprietors.
"SOFTNESS” SHIRTS.
Comfortable Cool and Neat.
The Spft ness is one of the coolest of Summer shirts. It is our
exclusive production—a distinctive shirt of fine French Cambric
(which will soon be scarce). The shirts are made with linen
neckbands and two styles of cuffs —the short starched or soft
double styles. The patterns are numerous—chiefly neat stripe
effects and new check designs over white ground?: The shirts
garments oll7 CUt proportioned - Th cy are ideal ready-to-wear
6/9 each; 3 for 20/-
Please state linen collar size.
Our new Catalog, in COLORS, is now ready. It is an excellent
production. Copy posted to any address on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AV
a
Wi
-sSS
The war has vividly illustrated the British
dread of death by drowning. It is the
dread of a race of non-swimmers for an
element that is always handy. Thus it
comes about that, though the British tar will
gladly blow his enemies into fragments, the
moment he sees them struggling in the sea
the old water-dread is too strong for him.
and at tremendous personal risk to himself
he will “stand by” to save them from that
fate.. The German seems to be more logical.
He is there to kill, and the manner doesn’t
greatly affect him. He murmurs into his
moustache the German equivalent of “Good
enough for the Cows!” and lets it go at
that.
ACCOUNTING FOR SHORT'S
SHORTAGE.
MRS. SHORT: “ And how, pray, did you
sacrifice a great deal by marrying me? ”
MR. SHORT: “Well, the fact is, old girl,
fellows simply wan't lend money to a
married man."
THE BOTTLE-FED ARMY.
All Germans above 15 years of age have been mobilised, and boys are now in the firing line.
KAISER: “I hey seem rather young, sergeant. Have they been trained in arms?"
RECRUITING SERGEANT: "They have been in arms all their lives, your Majesty.”
The revelation of a neat scheme of opium-
smuggling has won acquittal for a man
charged in Sydney with misappropriating
money. lie told the Court that he had been
engaged to go to Java to bring back snakes,
monkeys, and other live-ware and that the
box to carry the serpents had a false bottom,
which was designed to transport tins of
opium. The idea that
Customs officials were
unlikely to carry investi-
gations for opium past a
layer of snakes was pro-
bably correct. The box
wasn’t produced, the
accused explaining that
he had left it behind him
when fie learnt its pur-
pose, and threw up the
job. The opium business,
being highly profitable,
gives a good opening for
the ingenious swindler.
Lately a man in Sydney
negotiated with a Chow
for the sale of a quantity
of the drug. Deals
of this sort have
to be made swiftly
and secretly, and
there is every
reason why cash
should be de-
manded. In this
instance, when
the opium-trader
had delivered his
tins, and opened
one of them to
show the goods',
he collected his
money and got. It
was only after the
police had seized
the whole con-
signment that it
was discovered
that only one of
the tins contained
opium. Further,
there was a strong
suspicion that the man who reaped the coin
also “blew the gaff.” Even Ah Sin can
sometimes be instructed in ways that are
dark.
“Pontius Potter” looks ahead :—-
lie the passing of the mafficking habit (B.
1/10/T4). It is not dead, but sleeping. Some day,
and pray Heaven it may be soon, authentic news
will come to hand that General Someone-or-otherski
has entered Berlin and booted the Kaiser into the
Spree. At that precise moment, as I chuck my
pen at the ceiling and spill ink on the ledger, in
pure joy, a wild crash will tell me that a patriot has
pushed his, hilarious head through our plate-glass.
Out in the street the dying shrieks of a man caught
buying blut-wurst will mingle with the sweet music
of an elderly draper playing upon a penny trumpet.
Grandmothers will tango-on the tramline to the tune
of the cathedral chimes, and patriarchal males will
explode crackers in the ears of utter strangers.
Youths of a mechanical turn of mind will loop the
loop in motor-lorries, and Jack ashore will be
dragged to bits by females. The local hard-borrow-
ing- Treasurer will be seen juggling three golden balls,
whilst smoking two pipes and a cheroot simultane-
ously, and then the fun will begin properly. I
can’t really tell what will happen next, but the
feelings of the inhabitants that the censor is doing
so much to dam will burst with a fine report. The
world will seem a dull place ever after.
* * * *
“P. J.”: Re the Ministerial decision to
allow the expeditionaries two pints of beer
apiece, per diem, while at sea. Some of the
larger vessels will carry (say) £OOO men,
and the 2000 men will carry 4000 pints.
Multiply that by 40 (the boats won’t do the
run in less than 40 days), and you get
160,000 pints, which is equal to 20,000 gal-
lons. It seems a lot. But possibly the
authorities intend to charter a fleet of beer-
tank steamers to accompany the troopships.
* * w *
“504”: Some, years ago the Maoriland
Government took over the whole of Rotorua
and leased it out in sections to anyone who
wanted to build a shop or a
home or a boarding-house. As
there was no freehold gambling
in land was down and out.
But Premier Massey, who got
into power partly because he is
in favor of the freehold and
the unearned increment, is now
talking of giving the lessees
the fee simple of their holdings
on the basis of the original
valuation, or something mad
and incompre-
hensible like
that. Anyhow,
he appointed
another Com-
mission (the
faith of Massey
in a commission
is perfectly am-
azing) and sent
it to Rotorua to
ask the lessees
if they would
like to have the
freehold at a
price based on
the value 15
years ago! Naturally
the howls in the negative
were like the howls from
the grave. Massey has
already given a lot of
the Crown tenants the
freehold of their land at
the ancient valuation,
and if Maoriland doesn't
hurry up and get a change of Gov-
ernment the rest of the territory will
be thrown to Private Enterprise, where-
upon P.E. will be entitled to hang on
to it to the end of things without being
ever again any more enterprising than a
bunch of turnips.
The attempt to make war pay its way, by
levying huge contributions on towns that are
captured, is an old device of the remorseless
Prussian thief. He has been an heroic
looter since he first appeared in history.
The levying of an indemnity on a conquered
country at the end of a war is common
enough, and plundering is common enough,
but the habit of holding each captured town
to ransom separately, in order that it may
supply funds for the capture of the next
town, is mainly characteristic of the Prus-
sian nowadays. When the Junker comes
out on top he makes four separate profits:
(1) The formal indemnity.; (2) the cession
of territory?!- (3) the separate indemnities
exacted from captured towns while the war
is in progress; (4) the loot. Unfortunately
a very large, percentage of portable loot con-
sists of liquor. Jewellery may be stolen
to a certain extent, but even it accumulates
and becomes heavy. The private soldier on
the march can hardly take with him on his
back the library and picture gallery and
brass bedstead of his enemy. But he can
take his enemy’s rum away with him in his
stomach, and thus he puts' a hostile force
into his bowels to steal away his gun. And
a sober foe, who might, under happier cir-
cumstances, have consumed that stomach-
furnishing himself, gets on his tracks. Loot-
ing is a dangerous luxury.
* * * *
A batch of 28 ex-Government officials from
Rabaul landed in Sydney last week, per the
Berrima. The German Club secured accom-
modation for 14 of them at the Hotel Metro-
pole, where the visitors’ book was «isrned with
much pomp and circumstance, the address
being registered as “German New Guinea.”
The lady who presides over the cash and
lOU’s naively inquired “Wherever’s that ?”
and sundry captious visitors who have
assisted in rectifying the entry have embel-
lished the page with inscriptions in multi-
colored inks and pencils and in many hand-
writings.
WHAT HE KNEW.
SHE: “I don't know what the place would oe
without me.”
HE: “But we know what it is with you.”
THE GIRLS OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It s just great to walk about and see the girls.
Aren t there some bonzer girls in Sydney ! —Letter
of Territorian, written from Sydney, under the
mftuence of Spring.
Summer is a-comin’ in—clothes a-comin’ off!
Ky’ry young, unshackled male cultivates a cough ;
Pink arms glow in muslin sleeves, bosoms blush in
lacc.
I!7iaf a lot of loveliness scattered round the place!
When these muslin maids of Spring decorate the
streets,
Lv ry man who’s got a heart cannot counts its beats.
AVho could still be serious ’midst these little dears?
Ijord, 1 wish that I could live twenty-thousand years !
Think of all the merry maids of old history!
Think of all the Future’s girls—girls you’ll never
see!
Man who flirts a little space, and by cares is cowed,
Simply cannot hope to know half the Springtime
crowd.
’Twixt the Future and the Past, undecided, I
Gaze beyond the Present maid as she saunters by ;
What a lot we’ve got to miss in this jolly hive!
Still, for what we have, it is good to be alive.
Surely Beauty cannot die! Somewhere, out of
sight,
All nice girls that ever were, since the birth of
light,
B ait to welcome those who pass in the central blue;
So the ones wo see are just angels passing through.
N.s.w.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
(Without prejudice.)
THE WEEPING CONQUEROR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The drought is broken.... General rain is reported
from Queensland and the northern parts of N.S.W.
and S. Australia.
General Rain has come again ;
His legions grey we see ;
With mist and spray he weeps his way
To sodden victory.
He is an old, old man and cold,
With red and wretched eyes;
’Mid storms of cheers he sheds his tears
And straight the crops arise.
O'er fields and slums his stormy drums
Beat valiantly on high ;
Wind pipers shrill, by flat and hill,
Before his legions fly.
But though glad shouts of lords and louts
Float clearly to the skies
Where, black and frail, his war-clouds sail,
Uncomforted he cries.
General Rain yet once again
Has come to our relief,
With streaming eyes and sobs and sighs,
God bless his ancient grief!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


It does seem unfortunate, that rigid
military rules should prevent the
acceptance for active service of such
splendid specimens of manhood as the
Maoris can furnish. Men of 6ft. 61n. in
height have been rejected because they
weigh lost. The limit is 12st.
—News item.
The Civilian ' Trjey 'hkKe a
\iKe yo<A, lUrn down • v > a 3"
\hij-icent* liKe K>e*'
N vP> e ’-“Vhcrc would X
ifie of- / >
a^oCb^d sbx
: TooK X
\HKe}o u (#/
I
A seiiii-ollicial German news bureau
announces that a declaration of war by
Portugal against Germany is .momen-
tarily expected at Berlin.—Cable item.
over doctuneo+'J .’ A <decltraction
Sire, received 'from fortugaj.
* Trom FortupaJ ? h*Ve v/e done -fe oj'fznA
7
Official-* — *’ Tf" S€«i»7S i&atf” yo« Omiited "fo send
Sucti 2>v £ToSS fcl r e^ c -Tl
O'fi’quedfe CV* Only be bribed o«1
in “blood ” '
It would lie folly to tax egregiously
for current needs. The right thing for
the Commonwealth to do is to finance
the crisis with loan moneys, ruis'ed, if
possible, not in Australia, but ih
Britain.--Age.
Uncle 801 l Cp^ictrl -At'as'Hme 1
liKe %\% iti I
I So *|>|>li canons \
Jp>Y money.”
lm
'fold imborP 2s )
give v/ljerc brej'erence
d«e
A Copenhagen message states that
great care is taken to conceal the Kai-
ser’s movements. The Red Cross is
painted on the roofs of the carriages of
the Imperial train.—Cable item.
/cJle'teV ('tolfie w \]o
' called m 'to see w \y certain orders of 17*15
liaye Wen disregarded): — Sorry,
tu-Tvre orders "tfiKMW 1 of-
r?eutrkl»ty a/e'to be rigidly observed wjsljere.
"h*S feCZrit'loroclssrrjStiohj
i° "$e S3yid
" Re*r>erv)l?€i' -you are
v Chosen }>e°f>le.'
\
or r o •/
A «rvfL*p
\tfDL"«' r y\
. '“Dej^riiTy
Srt* uU
/No£^^ ,T, O
Tie KVsct' sV«l<* We >le»fc © f cood Co\or
for HtJe }olj *
M ' l ° r 'i t T«
CH*>sen\ nose po r money.
PROM MELBOURNE.
The artist tries to keep off the war, and fails badly.


h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SGRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
Price 1/- per Bottle. Of all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h
“THE TOPNOTCH SCOTCH.”
RING
GEORGE IV.
WHISKY.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
McPHERSON'S VIEW OF A
SANGUINARY WAR.
THE MEENISTER: “It is a verra terrible war,
Mr. McPherson; such awfu' losses .”
THE BUSINESS McPHERSON: “Mon, ye have
no conception; the deprececiation in ma
figures is appalling .”
An amateur “handcuff king” struck trouble
in Maoriland recently. He had received some
tuition in the art from an alleged expert at New-
castle (N.S.W.). Then he acquired a pair of hand-
cuffs and rushed over to Loan Land in pursuit of
fame and sundries. The first audience he struck con-
sisted of one lone railway porter at a place called
Tuakau, but even with the energetic assistance of the
audience he couldn’t get more than one hand free,
and, as the key of the handcuffs was lost the king
was in trouble. The porter sent him to Mercer by
train, and there he called at a sawmill and sought
the loan of a file. Someone saw him using it on
the handcuff on his wrist and ’phoned the local cop,
and the local cop sprang along and grabbed the
unfortunate artist. A sympathetic beak got the rail-
way porter to confirm by ’phone the accused’s state-
ment about the performance at Tuakau, and then
banished him with a caution.
ENCOURAGING.
POWERFUL PERSON: “I like a good argument on politics, but I like a man ter fork
SENSE. If a man don't fork sense ter me I punch him in the face. Now, wot's
YOUR opinion o' the Cover'ment?"
There was an invigorating law suit at
Gisborne (M.L.) the other day when a taxi driver
sought £44 for ear hire from a gentleman with the
Hebrew-Maori name of Abraham Te Whiro. Abe,
before leaving on a trip to Napier, had told the taxi
man that if his two stepdaughters wished to go for
a run in the car while he was away they were to be
taken on request, and the bill would be paid by him
(Abe) on his return. The girls had a perfectly lovely
time, and when father arrived home a fortnight later
he was handed a bill for £44. The Maori refused to
pay, and was promptly ushered into court, where he
put up the defence that the driver had taken advan-
tage of his instructions, and had systematically lured
the girls out in the cab. Also, it was alleged that
he had supplied a couple of young men to hold the
girls’ hands and keep them from getting lonely. The
beak said that whenever business was slack the driver
may have rushed round to Abe’s house and tooted
the horn to remind the girls that he was still on earth ;
but, if so, it had nothing to do with the case. The
Maori had said he would pay any hires incurred by
the girls, and the Court must take him at his word,
as the motor man did. Abraham was, then formally
smitten with costs, and departed after having con-
vulsions in two languages.
* * * *
Proclamation read to the local Binghis at
Rabaul (New Britain) after the Australian force
had finished its argument with the Kaiser’s dele-
gates :
All Boys belongina all place, you savvy big fellow
Master he come now; he new fellow Master, he
strong fellow too much. You look him all ship
stop place; he small feller ship belongina him;
plenty more big feller he stop place belongina him.
Now he come here he take him all place; he look
out good you feller; now he like you feller you
look out good along him. Supposing other feller
Master he been speak you, “You no work along new
feller Master,” he gammon. Supposing you work-
good with this new feller Master, lie look out good
along with you, he look out good you get plenty
good feller kaikai (food) ; he no fighting black
feller boy along nothing. You look him new feller
flag; you savvy him, he belong British. He more
better than other feller.
Supposing you been making paper before this
new feller Master come, you finish time belongina
him first; after you finish time belongina him you
like make him new feller paper belongina new
feller Master, he look out good along with you. He
give you more money and more good feller kaikai.
Suppose you no look out good along him he cross
too much.
'British new feller Master he like him black feller
man too much. He like you all the. same you
piccanin along him. You got black feller Master
belonginu you, you look out along with him. lie
all the same Police' Master. He look out place along'
. with you, you no fight other feller black man other
feller place, you no kajkai. man, you ho steal Marv
belonging other feller -man.
Me finish talk along with you now ; by-an-bye ship
belongina new feller Master he come and look out
place along with you. You look him man beloilgina
place belongina you, you speak him: all the same.
Me been talk along with you now ; now. you give
three feller cheers belongina new feller Master.
It was a wonderful bit of literature; but Binghi
seemed to catch on to the main points, and sent
along the cheers as requested.
THE JOY-KILLER.
The latest medical discovery is that the sting of
the bee cures chronic alcoholism.
BILL BEERCHEWER (who has been reading
the papers): “Keep going, Alf If he
gets yer, yer'll lose yer thirst .”
“E.J.M.”: Shearing cut out at Glengame,
Narromine (N.S.W.), yesterday. A barber named
B. H. Harris, who comes from Sydneyside, I think, put
up, on the last day, the respectable total of 304.
The cove who runs the shed is rather a particular
sort and doesn’t allow slumming, so you may take it
that the sheep were well shorn. Does any Abo-
writer know of a better tally?
THE CURSE OF TINCANBERRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne, Thursday.—lt has been decided by
the Federal Government that the competition for
designs for the proposed Parliament buildings at
Canberra shall be suspended for the present. This
action has been taken as the result of the disturbed
conditions produced by the war.
Yass, Saturday.—Several fresh cases of small-pox
have occurred at the railway camps in the vicinity
of Coolalie. —News items, NOT frgm the war.
List to me, 0 camerados!
List to me with close attention.
Yea, with earnestness and patience,
Like to Job—who had to hearken
All the chestnuts and back-answers
Of the ancients who protested
They were friends —the Talking Trio,
Bildad, Eliphaz and Zophar !. .. .
But you are not boil-afflicted,
And, I trust, I shall not bore you.
Hear the tale of Tincanberra,
All the swindle that enwrapt it;
All the jobs and lies that made it;
And the Curse that fell upon it;
All the load it staggers under—
Dry, deserted, dead-broke, dusty,
Dreary and drought-stricken hamlet
By the rabbit-poisoned “rivers.”
And the waterholes fast failing;
Where the peanut politicians
Strangled young Australia’s city,
Slew and buried Public Honor
With their rotten reputations!
Years ago they told the people
They would rear a stately city
In a fair and smiling district
By an ever-running river—
Such a city as no nation
Ever owned or dreamed of building!
Such a capital resplendent—
Such a cynosure of Wisdom,
Wealth and Art and peerless beauty,
Commerce, pleasure and all features
Rome and Athens vainly sighed for—■
London, Paris, Brussels, Moscow,
Agra, Stockholm, Copenhagen,
Madrid, Munich, and all cities
Noted for their size or beauty,
Lacked—and ever will be lacking.
“We,” they said, “are Big Australians,
And our views are like our country—
Large, expansive, Continental!”....
After years of cogitation,
Disputation and excursion,
And survey through champagne-glasses.
“Here,” they said, “we’ll build our city—
Here Australia’s highest glory,
Concreted in stone and marble,
Shall appear to envying nations.
Set among the eternal mountains,
Bv the swift, blue-rushing river,
Capital of a whole continent!”
Camerados, I assure you
The applause was quite tremendous!
All the people shouted Viva! —■
Or the Australian word for Viva !—-
While the envying outside nations
Made remarks of flattering import....
Hold ! Did I say all the people ?
Pardon, my good camerados !
I forgot the Sydney people— •
I forgot the big Importers—
I forgot the little Geebungs—
I forgot the Ma-State-Frighters !
These, although their faith was plighted
(Faith! Excuse me, camerados!),
Rose up swiftly in their anguish,
Crying: “Very great is Sydney
Of the Importers and the Geebungs!
What is this that they would give us ?
In Carruthers all our hope is—
Yea, in Wade and Hughes and Fuller,
Conroy, Cook and Willie Kelly!
To your tents, O S. M. ’Erald,
Daily Telegraph and others!
Blow Australia, blow our brothers,
Blow the Future! Blow the city! ”
Straight the peanut politicians
Curved their spines in meek abasement;
On their bellies fell prostrated,
Wailing: “Oh, dear—Hark at Sydney!”
Then they clasped the knees of Sydney,
Weeping at the sound and fury
From the cellar of the ’Erald ;
From the clubs of the importers;
From the attic of the Geebungs ;
From the whiskers of the Telegraph.
Then they moaned: “Oh, be not angry!
We don’t care about the city;
We thought it was for Australia !
Since you raise this loud objection
We will change the site to-morrow;
You can put it where you want it—
Certainly!... .Oh, blow the others!
No one else will fuss or bother—
Anything for peace and quietness!”
After some more years of quarrel,
Cogitation and excursion,
And inspection through large bottles,
All the peanut politicians—
Experts all at grinding axes,
And most skilful at log-rolling—
Engineered a grand bouleversement
(That’s the French for overturning,
Or polite for blanky swindle!).
llow they managed it were better
Left to chronicles hereafter.
Meantime, mark, good camerados.
How they rushed to help—er—Australia !
First,, they dropped the useful measure
Which secured a site superb for
Our great Continental City!
Then, by cunning combination,
They excluded sites inferior,
Though not altogether hopeless.
Finally, they chose Canberra !
Dreary, rainless, brown Canberra-
Windswept, desolate Canberra....
Why?... .The question needs no answer !
Canberra is near to Sydney—
Everything must be near to Sydney!—
So, of course, they chose Canberra,
Now renowned as Tin-Can-berra!
But the Curse fell on Canberra !....
From the day on which they chose it
Nothing prospered, nothing flourished ;
But the soil grew even drier,
And the rabbit-poisoned rivers
Shrank and shrank, and kept on shrinking;
Water there was none for drinking,
Save the drops that fell from Heaven
(Usually one year in seven!),
And the west wind howled in winter,
Blowing half the landscape skyward.
And the sun for eight months, yearly,
Burnt and blistered plain and hillside—
Blasted grass and vegetation ;
Scorched the paddocks where the rabbits
Languished for the lukewarm water
Of the Cotter and Molonglo—
Rivers now retired from business!
Very strong and highly active
Is the Curse of Tin-Can-berra !....
All the plans and parchment jimjams
Of the Ivnock-the-World-Stiff City
Have been brought to naught—and laughter !
Though the peanut politicians,
And the put-on-dog officials
Have for several years spent money—
Yea, three hundred golden thousands
Of good Uncle Cohen’s sovereigns—
Though the plans are simply gorgeous,
And the paper lakes and fountains
Flood the rock-scape with their moisture;
Though the buildings—which outrival
Rome and Athens, and the castles
Spain and Ether boast so justly—
Are of breath-depriving splendor.
Still the Curse will not be shifted!
Still the rain avoids Canberra —
Still the “rivers” go on shrinking.
And the “public works” are ailing ;
And the revenue is failing ;
And the loans —just like the “rivers”—
Have stopped running; and the small-pox
Is beginning to get busy in that dry, despondent
terra
K nown to fame as Tin-Can-berra!
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-360=6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
h
Insure in the
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Capital ...£250,000
Subscribed... 165,000
Paid=up ... 82,500
Branches in every State.
Agents wanted. Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager.
Martin’s Pills are sold by W. H. Soul,
Pattinson & Co. Ladies recommend them.
Be sure you get the genuine with the
signature, Martin, Chemist, Southampton.*
810-SHOWMEN!
THERE’S only one BEST Biograph. We can prove
it to be the “SILENT EMPIRE.’’ Send for Cata-
logue. Sole agents: Jerdan’s, Ltd., 393 George
Street, Sydney.
Bietamq gnd Spelling tnpoasMe
45'
tarflfll
TpkPLtV » Ct05l«0
emascuiator.
■.“SAFETY'
Emasculator
does away with all
risk of bleeding'.
Postage Free 45/*
My "Hints on Castrating"
enable any man used to Stock
to out with the “Safety”
either Colts, Bulls, Rains, or
Boars.
Other patterns of gg/. (; 0 JQ/.
Emasoulators from
Zoeller’s “Handy"
Castrating Knife, 3/6
is a lovely bit of Steel.
Carl Zoelleb.
246 Queen St.,
BRISBANE, Q.
Send for oomplete
Veterinary Catalog-
It's FREE
“J.M.M.”: No brush could paint and no
pen picture the sufferings now being endured by
starving stock on the southward tracks from the
drought-cursed Riverina and northern parts of Vic-
toria ; but supreme in the midst of many miseries
are the sufferings of the drovers’ dogs. These tireless
creatures work all day in choking dust and heat, with
little water and less food, and lie chained on guard
all night. Then, at the first sign of a move on the
part of their masters, they tug at their chains, and
yelp delightedly at the thought of liberty, though
liberty to them means another day of hard roads on
sore and bleeding feet. Still they never quit. It
makes my heart sick to see drovers treat such noble
animals so heartlessly. I admit that some drovers do
the fair thing; but the great majority reward their
dogs with kicks and curses and semi-starvation.
“Lagani-Nam'o”: The natives of the
Gazelle Islands (near New Britain) know quite a lot
about surgery. Broken limbs are reset and kept in
position with splints of bamboo or tortoise-shell. For
headaches and painful bruises the proprietors resort
to phlebotomy. A miniature bow with a tiny flint-
tipped arrow is used for blood letting. But it is their
peculiar skill in trepanning that excites most admira-
tion. Rows, in which stone clubs whirl energeti-
cally, are very frequent thereabouts, and many frac-
tured skulls result. This is how they mend them.
Before operating the surgeon laves his hands and the
patient’s cranium with the milk of a green cocoanut
and shaves the hair off the top of the patient. He
then takes his splinter of shell or obsidian and makes
the requisite incision. The scalp is now drawn care-
fully back, and the crushed bone is removed with
pincers of springy bamboo, until the brain is visible.
The surgeon can tell by the slight movement of the
thinking mecha ism whether anything foreign, such
as a splinter from the skull has’got into it. This will
be diligently searched for until the operator is
satisfied that the works are in good going order.
Then a specially bevelled plate of cocoanut, tortoise-
shell or wood is dovetailed into the aperture, the
scalp is replaced, washed again with cocoanut milk,
and the cranium encased in a cap of finely-plaited
cane. After that, all is well.
* * * *
“Snell” : The war fever takes quaint shapes.
There is a wide stretch of open land between St.
K i 1 d a and Elwood
(Melb.). Passing through
on the tram the other
day I noticed an elderly
man stripped to flannel
and pants furiously at
work. Two days later
the same man was still
on the job, and it sur-
prised me to see that
his detached raiment con-
sisted of a white shirt, a
black frock-coat and an
ancient belltopper. The
worker must have been
60 ; he went at it with
a zeal amounting almost
to passion, tearing up
one particular weed with
an instrument like a
diminutive pickaxe. The
growth to which the in-
dustrious moiler was de-
voting his energies was
the cape weed, a fair
hog of a plant, the bane
of the district. My
native and professional
curiosity was aroused.
“Working for the coun-
cil?” I asked. “No,”
answered the man, belt-
ing into another weed.
“For whom, then?” He
attacked a weed
saVagely. “No-
body!” he said.
“Excuse me,” I
continued
urgently, “but are
you paid for
this?” He looked
at me with a wild,
disconcerting eye.
“No,” he said,
said, and swiped fiercely at a cape weed. . “I do it
because I hate ’em!” The elderly gent is still out
there in his flannel and pants swiping at his enemy.
AS ADVERTISING.
POET: “How much for this little effusion?"
EDITOR: "H'm! How many times do you wish it inserted!"
“Hypo”: My farmer friend’s best horse
died the other day. The animal was in horrible pain
prior to its death, but, though there was no chance of
saving its life, the owner would not shoot the poor
brute, as it was insured. Death eventually ended the
torture to the beast, as well as to those who watched
it. The insurance co.’s agent viewed the body, saw
the torn-up earth caused by the death agonies, and
acknowledged that the four-footed creature was dead ;
also, that it died according to the policy regulations.
So the farmer saved his money, and the co. saved its
rules and regulations, and whether the horse saved
its soul, I can’t tell.
THE RESTRAINING INFLUENCE.
“Had an awful domestic row this morning.
Felt like throwing a loud , long curse at the
wife. ”
“ What slopped you—presence of mind?”
“ No. Presence of mother-in-law.”
“Marloo”: While wheat farmers and
sheep-raisers all over the country were recently pray-
ing for rain, or cursing because it didn’t come, cane
growers on the Clarence Itiver (N.S.W.) were vig-
orously blackguarding an over-supply of moisture.
During wet spells a disease known as “arrowing”
makes its appearance in the cane. It is allegedly
due to over-production of sugar in the stalk conse-
quent on excessive rainfall. In order to allow the
surplus sugar to escape, the stalk develops an arrow-
shaped growth at the top, and later on a tassel
appears. The. ailment in a very mild form has
always been present, attacking mostly the cane when
fit to be cut, and little harm has resulted. Now,
however, it has assumed rather serious proportions
and infests the year-old plants, which in 12 months’
time will not Contain sufficient sugar to pay the
cutter, let alone supplying tucker for the grower and
a bloated divvy for the C.S.R. Co.
“Bill Bowang” : Niue islands, which have
been pushing themselves into the war news, had
quite a respectable hat-making industry once. The
islanders plait the pandanus leaf very skilfully,
and there used to be always a good market in
Maoriland for the millinery. The work is done
by the women in their own homes, and the finished
article sold to traders at so much per dozen. In
recent years, however, Maoriland has been flooded
with a cheap machine-made Java hat; and though
for appearance and durability it cannot be compared
with the Niuean lid, the export of the latter has
fallen off considerably. The Niue trader can’t now
get more than about 10s.' per dozen for his goods;
and the native’s cut is about 9s. per dozen, which
he says isn’t enough to make the job worth while.
There is little doubt that unless the Niuean hats are
protected in the Maoriland market from the com-
petition of shoddy machine-made articles, the in-
dustry will perish and plaiting will become a lost
art in the group. An attempt was made a while
ago to produce Panama hats there. A trader
imported the straw and put it into the hands of
the more skilful natives, but they either could or
would do nothing with the new-fangled material.
’Gators’ Euchre.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAIR evening—an evening of the
North.
The tall, tropical palms were swish-
ing. The locusts, whose eternal screech,
heard throughout the day, had seemed to
intensify the heat with its dreariness and
monotony, were silent at last. The sun
had set; and across the level scrub-lands
of the Burdekin there lingered a wonderful
glow. It tinged the tops of ash and blood-
wood, of pandanus and ti-tree ; and it made
the seared grass lands golden. Quietness
reigned and the North seemed young.
On a beautiful deep lagoon, a mile long,
a half-mile wide, and thick with ducks,
geese and swans, the sky—a touch of glory
—was mirrored. Near the steep banks all
was deep shadow, and high above the thick
mangroves the ti-trees stood, gaunt.
There was a clear space of water near
one end of the lagoon—a still, clear space.
Towards it, calling quickly and warily, flew
a flock of geese. Round they circled, round
twice more, lessening the distance at each
turn. Then they ducked right down —and
suddenly up again, and away to the farthest
end of the water.
High above, and eager for the common
camping-place—like many other animals
ducks like much company in the camp —-
appeared a flock of whistling ducks. With
whirring wings and vigorous whistling they
descended to the clear space in one grand
corkscrew swoop. Then they, too, rose pre-
cipitately and fled.
The bird of calmness and courage—the
black swan —called in the distance, and was
answered by two others flying higher up.
He circled down to a similar clear space
in a neighboring lagoon, divided from the
first by a narrow neck of land. He settled
with a light splash and swam about slowly,
his head inclined now slightly to the left
and now r to right. A quick call from the
two circling higher above, and they began
to descend. A steady note from the one
swimming. The two soared upward. Our
swan, uttering a note of sadness, rose from
the water and joined his wife and son.
In the clear patch on the right lagoon
there appeared a smali piece of bark. It
must have floated there, for it wasn’t there
a minute ago. A moment later a small piece
of bark was noticeable in the centre of the
clear space on the lagoon to the left.
Thus the two pieces of bark remai n
motionless. A water-lien flew out to P e
on one of them, but turned quickly when
the point of settling, and flew back to
bank. Then they went—they floated out or
view as unostentatiously as they had ap-
peared. The two patches of water continue
strangely deserted.
From the farther scrub emerged a horse-
breaker, driving a colt in a buckboard. i- ■
was 15 miles from the homestead. As ne
bowled along towards the narrow neck ot
land he noticed how naturally his horse kept
to a faintly-beaten pad. Three weeks ago,
before he had come to the station and had
begun to exercise his horses in that part, the
pad had not been in existence.
He reflected that in 10 minutes he would
be at the neck. As usual, at seven o’clock he
would make his horse trot across, it. In
20 minutes be would be two miles from
it. He would then, as usual, turn and walk
his horse back, and so get him cool for a
drink at a spring just past the. lagoons. It
was part of his system of training horses to
show them that, firstly, they had to bend their
desires to his; and, secondly, that he was,
while making them do this, mindful of their
welfare, after all.
A steep fall led down to the neck. . He
rattled down recklessly. He had whisked
acx-oss 20 times; this would be his twenty-
first ; and not once, though there wasn t
sufficient room for a vehicle to turn round
on it, had he been capsized into the water.
He had gone across with seven different
horses, but none bad behaved like this colt-
For instance, when had one suddenly pulled
up at the neck, with a jerk, and planted its
feet firmly down like a stubborn donkey?
“Anyhow,” he told the colt with a grin,
“we’ll go over the neck, my boy, or over the
neck, my boy, curse you”—meaning they
w r ould cross the neck or fall off it into one
of the lagoons.
He swung his whip fiercely and hard.
“Hell,” he said grimly. “It’ll either be rump
steak and grass or ’gator meat to-night.
Please yourself and blazes take you. I’m not
particular.”
The colt, the white of its eyes showing with
fear, made a rear and a plunge, and swerved
to the right. Before it began to descend,
however, the breaker jerked the left rein
hard. The animal was righted while in the
air. It hit the ground safely, and dashed
madly ahead. The buckboard reeled from side
to side, and the driver’s laugh floated back
on the air as it disappeared into the scrub
at the brow of the rise. The two pieces of
bark had drifted back.
The bush was calm ; but the thousands of
waterfowl on both lagoons seemed restless,
for little flocks constantly rose and departed.
Fewer flocks took their places. There was
rather less than the ordinary amount of
quacking and calling. Conversation seemed
constrained.
The pieces of bark remained. Larger
armies of ducks departed. Darkness settled.
Only the sing-song of the mosquitoes re-
mained unhushed. The tall palm tops,
silhouetted against the sky, swayed rhythmi-
cally.
The two pieces of bark, owing to the
darkness, were no longer discernible when
the breaker returned with his horse at a
walk, and reached the slope that led down
to the neck.
A black swan circled overhead, sounded a
quiet honk of warning, and flew. away. The
breaker began to have trouble with his horse
again.
“You rotten cow!” he yelled.
Horsemanship will win out. He went
down the slope, and at a walk. He was
determined to go at that pace right back to
the spring. Colts had to learn that man
was boss.
In the centre of the neck the colt sud-
denly stood stock still, and shivered. The
black swan returned, swept round overhead,
again uttered its pregnant note, and again
flew away.
“To Hell”
The breaker was about to swear. Some-
thing indefinable checked him.
With pricked ears, wide nostrils and wider
eyes his snorting horse stared ahead. He
bent forward and listened.
A sound reached him from a little distance
away—a crawling, rustling, stealthy sound
which came in little jerks.
His horse’s ears went back. Its head
turned. It trembled more than ever. He
looked round —a slow, crawling, stealthy
sound reached him from behind.
“Cod!” he muttered, and his face was
white now. “The Euchre. The ’Gators
Euchre.”
A clumsy crashing rush out of the dark-
ness ahead, another from behind. Two
shrieks —one from the man and another from
the horse, and a great rattle and splash as
the maddened colt sprang to one side.
But hardly an extra ripple appeared on
the water as the two alligators left the neck
find entered the lagoon. The black swan
circled higher and higher above, _ calling
despairingly. Then it flew away into the
night, returned, and left again.
And the tropical night was full of peace.
A. L. BREWER.


THE SMALL VOICE CRYING TO THE OTHERWISE-ENGAGED.


/
w
“Sports” Sweaters.
This distinctive Sweater can be slipped on
and off without effort, or can be worn over
Vest, showing Collar and Tie.
V-shaped at neck and woven at the neck,
wrists and bottom edge with Club Colors.
Made of Paton’s best white wool in a honey-
comb stitch.
Special Club Colors made to order in three
days. For Golf. Tennis, Cricket, etc., we can
recommend nothing better. When ordering
givr> Chest measurement over Vest. We pay
'" eisht - Price 10/6
“Silustria” Shirts
are a happy combination of Comfort and Style,
without the sacrifice of either.
“Silustria”—the new, cool, feather-weight
flannel —is relieved with rich silk stripes. There
is a double guarantee—the weavers’ and ours—
that it will not shrink or lose its color.
“Silustria” Shirts are supplied in “Coat
Style ’ —on and off like a Coat —or ordinary
style. They possess many other improvements
that you will appreciate. Write for a sample
Shirt. Satisfaction, or money back.
Price —l3/6
THE LEVIATHAN
Corner SWANSTON & BOURKE STREETS, HELBOURNE.
i >
m
m
//
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Seaman Kiordan, who went down with
Australia’s submarine AEI, was a native of
Kaikoura (M.L.), and was one of the first
draft of Maoriland boys trained on H.M.S.
Pioneer. David Jones, Esq., made an at-
tempt to get him three months ago, when a
tug in Sydney harbor ran down and sank
the pinnace of the Pioneer, in which he was
returning to the ship. He dodged death
that time through being a good swimmer,
but the cowardly old Enemy squared the
account when it got its quarry carefully
lccked up in a submarine.
SENA TOR
A.J. GOULD
(N.S.W.).
One at least of Nelson’s officers was
buried in N. S. Wales. At St. John’s, Cam-
den, there is the grave of Alexander Martin,
Commander R.N., who died September 7,
1868, aged 84 years. He joined the navy in
1795, and was an officer under Duncan at
Camperdown and Nelson at Trafalgar.
A yarn of Jabez Wright, M.L.A. for Will-
yama, who has spent half his life in business
as an undertaker at Broken Hill. He was
on his way to the Chamber when a horse
swerved from the road, and struck the wall
of 1 arliament House. In doing so it col-
lided with a pedestrian, slightly injuring him.
Jabez bustled up.and asked if anybody was
killed. "Only the horse,” said somebody.
"My luck !” retorted Jabez. "I don’t burv
horses.”
Some women have poor luck. It is cabled
that two kindly Yankee spinsters, possibly
with straight hair and spectacles, have
established a private hospital for wounded
soldiers at Ostend (Belgium). The name
of one is given as Maunder and the other
as Tinker. No angel should be named
Maunder —or Tinker. An angel’s name
should be carefully selected. Elizabeth Fry
was probably a greater benefactress than
Florence Nightingale. But Fry suggests a
bit of bacon in a pan in the back kitchen,
while Nightingale is remindful of a song-
stress in a tree bn a moonlit night in sum-
mer. So Betty' Fry never got quite the
credit that was due to her. And neither
will the ministering sisters Maunder and
Tinker. They have just as much show as a
deathless hero named William Slush.
HIS PROPER PLACE.
WILLIAM : “ The spirit of the Lord has
descended upon me."
THE ONE WHO LOOKS OUT OF THE WINDOW:
"Come inside , Willie."
Bishop Golding-Bird, who goes to the
wars with the Westralian cohort, has been
telling a story of his experience in S’Africa
concerning individual courage. For him-
self, he said _ that during action he w r as
“horribly afraid,” and one day mentioned to
a rough-and-ready officer that he would give
a lot to be like those men wdio never felt
fear in battle. Said the officer: “Would
you like me to tell you what those men are
who say that?” “Very much, indeed,” re-
plied the parson. “Well, they’re damned
liars,” snapped the warrior.
Passed to Abraham’s bosom the other day,
at Melbourne, Isaac Jacobs, one of the
pioneers of the Australian tobacco indus-
try and a man full of charity. About GO
years ago he settled in Australia and became
associated with the struggling concerns
which have grown into the States Tobacco
Co. and the big British-Australasian To-
bacco Co. Seven sons and two daughters
(including the wife of Justice Isaacs and
Mrs. Harry Levy, of Sydney) share the
loss.
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Apropos Australian-born Bishops (B. 15/10/T4).
An Australian gained a bishopric in England, and an
Australian-born rector in England won an Australian
bishopric. The former was Edward Parry, son of the
Arctic explorer, born at Government House, Parra-
matta, in 1830, his father being then in charge of
the A. A. Co.’s affairs at Port Stephens. He was
appointed Bishop of Dover in 1870. The second was
Dr. Samuel E. Marsden, Bishop of Bathurst, a grand-
son of Sam Marsden, the blacksmith-parson of the
very early days. Young Marsden, who was at Cam-
bridge in the ’so’s, was a diocesan inspector of
schools when he got the Bathurst job in 1869. He
was probably the worst preacher who ever wore an
apron in Australia—and that’s saying a good deal.
“M.McD.F.”: Two portraits were unveiled
in Ballarat the other day. One was of
Father “Tom” Guilfoyle, a fine man. a good
priest, and one of Ballarat’s best citizens
in the days before he died. He has been
dead just long enough to have been forgotten
if he hadn’t been the kind of man that
refuses to be forgotten. The other portrait
was of the present Catholic Bishop of the
Garden City, Dr. Higgins, who used to bish
at Rockhampton (Q.). Both were painted
by Bruno Geppe, of Rome, there being no
capable portrait painters in Australia. Had
Father Tom been about, to voice his opinion
on the matter, those responsible for the un-
patriotic act would have had a foretaste of
what’s waiting for them. But, as mentioned
before, he is dead.
Westmore Stephens, founder of one of
Melbourne’s biggest fluff and staylace shops,
died last week. He stood up alongside Rob-
ertson and Moffat and Buckley and Nunn.
It is a subject of bitter and enduring regret
with the Post Office that it failed to secure
the Stephens property when an offer of sale
was made. The offer having been turned
down, the energetic owner went ahead and
established so big a business that next time
money was mentioned the figure was sky-
high. Though formerly a City Councillor,
Stephens was best known as the chief lay-
man of the wealthy Baptist church in Vic-
toria. He was twice President of the Bap-
tist Union, was a vice-president (in Phila-
delphia. U.S.) of the World’s Baptist Con-
gress, and had been nominated as vice-presi-
dent of another congress fixed to be held
next year in Berlin.
‘ Vic”: There is fury in Melbourne over
the announcement that a male and female
baboon just added to the Melbourne Zoo are
named Mr. and Mrs. Maguire. I don’t be-
lieve the gentle director Be Souef was re-
sponsible for such a silly thing. Anyhow,
no matter what folly of this kind there may
be, Maguire will remain one of the most
honored names in Ireland. The Maguire
princes ruled for centuries as Lords of Fer-
managh in the ancient kingdom of Ulster,
and various members of the family were dis-
tinguished military commanders in France
during the reigns of Louis XIV. and Louis
XY. ;n Spain, and with Hungarian and
Bohemian regiments in the Austrian ser-
vice. They were Barons of Enniskillen
under the British Crown; and the Ennis-
killing dragoons and fusiliers come largely
nom that clan and its kindred. Incidentally,
isn’t it paltry that, while State School chil-
dren are admitted free to the Melbourne Zoo,
Roman Catholic school children have to pay?
Bishop Torres, Abbot of New Norcia
(W.A.), dead at Subiaco, had a brief record.
It was his predecessor, Dr. Salvado, who
gave the aborigines of the Nor’-West their
first good impression of the white man. He
and his company of Spanish clerics became,
in a sense, abos., who mixed hunting with
building and planting. “I even came to like
lizards and earth worms,” records Don Sal-
vado ; but there wasn’t enough even of these,
so he went back to Perth to raise money
to buy provisions. With that in view he
sang and played the piano, facing his audi-
ence in a tunic to the knees, his trousers in
tatters, his socks of different colors, on his
face a six-months’ untrimmed beard, and
wearing hands that washing didn’t improve.
But he raised the wind, loaded up his dray
and started back to Norcia. (The place was
called Nursia at the beginning, after the
Spanish birthplace of St. Benedict, the
founder of the mission’s Order.) It was
Salvado’s way with the aborigines which
made the monastery the success it has be-
come—a success unique in Australia. The
abbot who has just died had an easier
time. He came from the Philippines 10
years ago, and has passed out at 53. Sal-
vado returned to Rome when over 80, and
enjoyed good health for some years.
Thomas Fergus, who died at Dunedin
(M.L.) recently, reached Melbourne from
‘Scotland in the early 00’s of last century,
and.in 1869 pushed south-to Dunedin. Two
years later he became District Engineer of
Goldfields under the Provincial Government.
After four years of this he started business
with a partner named Henderson, and
carried out many big construction contracts.
In Maoriland the firm built the Mosgiel-
Outram railway, the Patea railway, the
New Plymouth waterworks, the Bluff rail-
way wharf and many big bridges; and it
constructed the Deloraine-Mersey railway in
Tasmania and the Alphington-Heidelberg
and Koroit-Warrnambool lines in Victoria.
In 1881 Fergus won a seat in the M.L.
House of Reps., where he remained until.
1893. In that year he definitely retired,
after being twice elected unopposed. At
different times he held the portfolios of
Justice, Defence, Works and Mines in
various Governments, and was looked
upon as an efficient Minister. As a
keen business man he was in request as a
company director; he was one of the Govern-
ment nominees on the Board of the Bank
of New Zealand and earned his fees from
the Standard Insurance., the Mosgiel Wool-
len and the Westport Coal cos.
“Melb”: The Collins-street Independent
Church is still looking for a pastor, -t ,
a score have been nominated for the
stakes in the past year or two, bvit no
has been chosen permanently. The late,
starter was Depledge Sykes, from > ; to ,
Church, Adelaide. The big Collins-stre
church is, of course, a plum, not to say '
peach, being amazingly rich in property.
Some of the fuglemen, therefore, don t care
whether the parson is “popular” or not
which was why Bevan held on there
at a big screw for about as long as
GOVERNOR-
GENERAL
MO-FERG ,
trying to look as
though he enjoyed
holding his arm
tip for half an
hour.
Rip Van Winkle
slept, while his
congregation of-
ten ran down
to a few score
in a tabernacle
capable of hold-
ing twelve, hun-
dred. On the
other hand,
Bevan’s succes-
sor,' Richards,
was unable to
stand the dread-
ful freeze, and
bolted back to
England.
Another book on the vicissitudes of life
in N. S. Wales is threatened. Joshua Vickery
is to do it. As the Vickerys have,
as a rule, done well, there will probably be
more ups than downs in the story. The
original Vickery started shoemaking in
George-street, Sydney, in 1833; and Joshua,
the present book-maker, was born on the
premises six years later.
Kitchener being now 64, and married only
to War, all hope of a mortal direct heir has
apparently been abandoned. Special provi-
sion has therefore been made for the succes-
sion of his titles —he is now Earl K. of K.,
\ iscount Broome of Broome, and Baron
Denton of Denton. His brother, Colonel
11. E. Kitchener, who is named as his heir,
is something of a mining engineer. The last
time he visited Australia it was to report
on the Cloncurry copper field —in the inter-
ests, it was understood, of the Coats cotton
people chiefly. He has a son and a
daughter.
Jensen, the new Federal Minister of
Marine, has been most things except a
mariner. He left school when he was 41,
and got a job cleaning currants at 3s. a
week. When he had mastered that branch
of commerce lie went into a jam factory at
ss. a week. His next promotion was to the
stables, and afterwards he. worked in a
pottery. This was in Victoria. Then he
went across to Tasmania and had a week or
so in. turn at mining, undertaking and pub-
keeping. Finally he settled down as an
orchardist, and still sticks to that as a side-
line.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” note:—
Apropos “Tom” Pidgeon (B. 8/10/’l4). Ilis
father, “Nat” Pidgeon, was not an ordained clergy-
man at any time ; he was in the Wexford Yeomanry
in the time of the Irish rebellion of 1798. Nat was
apprenticed to a cabinet-maker in Enniscorthy. As
he, his wife and child arrived in Port Jackson on
May 20, 1841, he could scarcely have seen six men
hanged in Wynyard-square in the ’3o’s. Any-
how, no hangings ever took place in Wyn-
yard-square. He got employment with E. Hunt,
in Jamison-street. He says in his journal
that he was horror-struck at the wickedness of both
men and boys; while in Hunt’s workshop he felt as
if he “had been landed on the borders of Hell.” Which
is a cruel injustice to the memory of Hunt, who
was a highly respectable man, in whose warehouse
Irancis Forbes (Chief Justice), Edward Parry
and other leading men of the time founded the first
temperance society in Sydney. Nat Pidgeon attached
himself to the City Mission, and became an open-air
preacher. One of his greatest aids at reforming the
“drunks” was a large bullock-bell, with which he
armed himself on Sabbath mornings, and in front
of each Sussex-street pubbery he bawled: “Come out
and be saved, ye rum drinkers.” Many were called
but few came out.
ABLE SEAMAN JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The naval authorities announce that letters for
persons serving in H.M.A. ships should be addressed
in the following manner:—
Able Seaman Jones,
11.M.A.5. Encounter,
' C/o G.P.0., Sydney.
Jack Tar and Tommy Atkins, those immortal men
we‘ll see
Wherever Britain’s trumpets sound the call of
history ;
They’ll march and fight, though vultures sight and
pick their shattered bones ;
And now to help the deathless pair conies Able
Seaman Jores.
Full-grown, equipped for land or sea, with battle-flag
unfurled,
lie takes his station in the line that winds around
the world.
No shot or shell will stay his march, no steel will
bar his way !
He is immortal, and he knows that he has come to
stay!
A year ago they knew him not. To-day he is a kingM
We only live because he waits where questing liners
swing;
Below the blue horizon rim lift watches day and
night
The interests of the lonely land behind and out of
sight.
While Jack and Tommy in the North serve out the
nickelled cones,
They’re leaving all the jobs round here to Able
Seaman Jones ;
And .Tones is cleaning up the South and ordering
the seas,
Collecting German colonies, and never savin”-
“Please!”
Next arm-in-arm we’ll see them roll around the smil-
ing world,
When all the little jobs are done and battle-flags
are furled ;
And Capital will wave its hat and Labor lift a cheer,
And all will sounder sleep at night because our
Jones is near.
Thus cobwebs spun of dread and doubt in days of
slothful ease
Are melted by the blaze of war, and on Pacific seas
We see him ride, his gun beside, and Lord! how it
atones
For all the toil and agony! Hail, Able Seaman
Jones!
N.S.W.
BARBETTE.


m
//
A
25c
3%
B
. /
IF
m
m
■m.
V.
6
/s
a
Popularity in articles of daily use is only
gained by worth and excellence.
“ CAPSTAN ” is a household word
all the world over in connection with
Tobacco and Cigarettes.
Tobacco
3 Strengths, Mild, Medium and Full.
Also in Plug form.
Cigarettes
3 Strengths, Mild, Medium and Full.
*
Tobacco and Cigarettes
W. D. & H. O. WILLS.
LMN
PIPES
400
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
as*
■»*»
m
£V ery p 'P e Guara^ ecl


IRRIGATION.
We carry Large Stocks of Steam- and
Power-driven Reciprocating Pumps.
Also Large Stocks of Centrifugal Pumps suitable for Irrigation Work.
Cash or Terms.
SIMPSON BROTHERS,
Lawson House.
49 Clarence St., Sydney
BUCYRUIS CO. Milwaukee
•Steam Shovels, Drag' Line Excavators.
Sole Agents—WILLIAM ADAMS ffi, COMPANY LIMITED.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sevan
Prise Medals.
vAtY;
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil,
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
WorUst Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A Sydney politician whom it is always
consoling to find on the premises at a time
of trouble.—provided it is a Labor Govern-
ment which is in trouble —is Henley. He
suggests the affable cat which sits and purrs
on the rug when there is a death in the
family. The latest proposition of this Job’s
comforter is that the N.S.W. Government
should raise the rate of interest on Savings
Hank deposits to 5 p.c. At present, the rate
is 34 p.c. for money which can be with-
drawn at the shortest possible notice. For
deposits at call the private banks allow no
interest whatever, and they even charge a
trifle for keeping the account. So the Sav-
ings Bank lives precariously on a very
narrow margin. If the present war trouble
lasts long, the withdrawals will probably be
heavy, and it will be difficult, in the hurry
to realise securities, to earn 34 p.c. To pro-
mise 5 p.c. on the pound which is here to-day
and gone to-morrow would be suicide. Sup-
posing Premier Holman had struck Henley
with a club at this crisis it would have been
a noble and fitting act. But with his usual
affability lie said that the matter would be
considered. Holman is the affable kind of
man who would consider a proposal for dig-
ging up the Murray River, and making it
into soup for the unemployed.
* * * . -X-
Marcus Cuark and Co., Ltd., who carry
on a furnishing and drapery business in
Sydney and elsewhere, and do much of it on
a time-payment basis :
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
r A , reckoned
l’i'ef Written as an
Profits. (6p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Asset).
A Ug„ £ £ £ £ £
T 905.. -- 49,039
1906.. 30,056 4954 7-A p.c. = 11,250 1694 36.281
1907. . 33,279 6000 7A ~ „ 11,250 2538 22,790
1908.. 33,003 0000 8’ ~ ~ 12,000 2971 10,158
Reserves.
1909.. 35,473 6512 8 ~ ~ 12.712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39,640 7500 8 „ ~ 14,000 3167 18,374
Insurance Fund dropped in. £1920. . 20,294
1911.. 43,482 8250 8 p.c. = 15,000 2758 37,738
1912.. 51,430 9000 8 ~ ~ 16,000 2946 61,222
1913.. 36,121 9000 8 „ ~ 16,000 3379 68.964
! 914. . 38,060 9000 8 ~ ~ 16,000 4171 78,453
The co. was formed 12 years ago, but the
Public didn’t come into it for three or four
years afterwards. To begin with there was
a loading of £72,.‘>77 for goodwill. By main-
taining a modest dividend in times of afflu-
ence the management has been able to
exchange that deficit for a very substantial
reserve; in other words, instead of having
tangible assets £72.277 less than the capital,
it has now £78,453 more, which means that
in 12 years the net profits have exceeded the
dividends by £150,830 —a performance most
creditable to the directors. Nominally there
is £15.000 of goodwill still among the assets ;
but that could all be wiped out. even by the
unappropriated P. and L. balance. ’ And
besides that unappropriated balance there
are two formal reserve funds totalling
£75.024.
The accumulation of reserves has certainly
been simplified by the fact that of the pre-
sent capital of £350,000, no less than
£150,000 was got in when money was cheap,
and carries only 6 p.c. Still there’s more
than that much —£157,091, to be exact —
represented by freehold and leasehold pro-
perties. nearly all of them in Sydney; and
it isn’t reasonable to expect Sydney proper-
ties, purchased or built during the past few
years, to return any more than 0 p.c. It
boils down to this: a trading co. with so
much in bricks and mortar couldn’t show
•such results as this one if it weren’t helped
on its way by a lot of cheap preference
capital.
But even 6 p.c. on money sunk in big
business premises may take a lot of earning
in bad times, when half the accommodation
might be sufficient. And it looks as though
this is the sort of business that bad times
would affect seriously. To a great extent
it is a furnishing house; and thoughts of
extra, furniture are about the first thing you
shut down on when prosperity evaporates.
A further source of trouble lies in the book
debts, mostly balances outstanding on time-
payment purchases. The corpulence of this
item is shown among other things in the next
table: —
1906. 1911. 1913. 1914.
Stock . . . . £ 96.965 £ 209,271 £ 211.175 ,C 1 55.434
Book debts .. 124,289 175,791 182,477 198.078
Freeholds .. 77,093 92,451 82.159 86 643
leaseholds .. 14,093 26,751 64,220 70’148
Plant, etc. .. 17,354 18,428 19,033 21’215
Cash, etc. . . 3,943 8,564 20,310 19,673
That makes a total of £551,491 of assets;
and as capital and reserves are only
£428,000-odd. the co. lias to lean on the
bank and other creditors pretty heavily:-—-
_ 1906. 1912. 1913. 1914.
Mortgages .. £40,800 £42,000 £40,000 £38,000
Other debts.. 05,262 111,189 107,910 72,538
Total .. £106,062 £153,189 £147,910 £110,538
However, though the liabilities are still
large, the co. is in a much better position to
meet this war and drought trouble than it
easily might have been. By a fortunate re-
duction of stock it has been able to wipe
£37,000 off its own liabilities during the
year. Further, probably very few of its t.p.
customers have so far been really unable to
keep up their instalments. Thus, no doubt,
the outstanding book debts have been solidly
reduced during the last 24 months, and that
should have meant further shrinkage of lia-
bilities. The average Australian trailer has
had a lot of luck in one way: though war
and drought results combined may be very
serious presently, they didn’t get serious
suddenly—except in a few mining centres
like Broken Hill. So the retail trader, while
getting the straight tip to restrict credit,
has had the luck to be able to collect a lot
ot the money which a sudden catastrophe
would have made hopelessly bad. And the
luck of the retailer in this respect has of
course improved things for the wholesaler,
and for the banker who stands behind both
of them.
The Dunlop Rubber Co. (Melbourne) :
Dividends.
< — lll •* "" Writ- Nominal
Pref. Def. Ord. Total ten Re-
•lulv, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. Off. serves.
1902 ..£10,414 7 74 1 £7,800 £1,873 £3,820
1903 .. 17,304 7 74 Nil 7,100 7,860 6,164
1904 ... 21,770 7 74 5 10,600 8,661 8,673
1905 .. 17,578 7 74 5 13,200 3,712 9,339
190 G .. 26,131 7 74 5 16,780 4,445 14,245
1907 .. 35,301 7 74 51 18,210 11,056 20,280
1908 . . 44,940 9 94 9 25,120 7,500 32,600
1909 . . 50,183 124 13 9 31,700 4,500 46,583
1910 .. 53,596 124 13 9 31,700 6,601 61,878
No accounts issued for 1911. Surplus pro-
fits of that year plus amount by which
assets were written up, £110,622 . . 172,600
Co. reconstructed ; reserves capitalised.
Dividends.
r~~
Pref. Def. Ord. Total To Re- Nominal
July, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. serves. Reserves.
1912 ..£66,768 10 9 10 £49,637 £17,131 £17,131
Premium on new shares 60 17,191
1913 .. 72,891 10 9 10 51,100 21,791 38,982
1914 .. 77,003 10 9 10 51,100 25,903 64,885
There are other ways of putting it. In the
first place, note that the reserves are de-
scribed as nominal throughout. Originally
£125,000 was paid by what was then called
the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. for the
Dunlop patent rights for Australasia. In
the ordinary course this would have been
treated in The Bulletin as a hypothetical
asset, and a deficit of £125,000 would have
been indicated. That is to say the tangible
assets were £125,000 short of the capital.
Soon, however, things got comulicated by
the purchase of other rights, leases, etc.; and
as some of these may have been tangible
assets, the practice was adopted of including
the goodwill as an asset and showing the
reserves as nominal. Later on, when the co.
was reconstructed in 1911 and £172,500 of
bonus capital was issued, goodwill was
apparently written up. Any wav, that item
now stands alone at £180,000; so that, after
allowing for profits accumulated, there is
still £115,115 of the capital not represented
by tangible assets. This paper doesn’t for
a moment suggest that the intangible assets
are worth nothing. The right to make a
tyre and brand it “Dunlop” is certainly
worth money. But it isn’t anything you caii
measure; and it isn’t an item that should
remain on a balance-sheet a year longer than
necessary.
I he capital is now £520.000. made up as
follows :
Cumulative preference .. .. £ 200,000
Deferred non-cum. pref.. . .. 90 000
Ordinaries 230,000
In the old co. there were prefs. and ordin-
aries, the latter (mostly issued in the first
Place for goodwill) limited to 9 p.c. On the
reconstruction of the co. the ordinaries were
turned into second prefs., and a new lot of
ordinaries were issued —172.500 as bonus
shares, the balance at par. The position of
the shares is now' something like this: (1)
Cum. prefs. are entitled to a first 7 p.c., and
they also rank first in the event of liquid-
ation. (2) Second prefs. are next entitled to
• > p.c. (3) The ordinaries then come in for
10 p.c. (4) After the second prefs. have had
•’ P-c. and the ordinaries 10 p.c., the first
Prefs. are entitled to whatever else it is
thought proper to divide. Thus far it hasn’t
»een thought proper to give them more
Ilian 10 p.c. The position of these first
prefs. is unusually fine, On the other hand,
it is to be noted that, quite contrary to the
usual practice, it is the ordinaries whose
dividends are limited.
Though the goodwill item is large and
heavy stocks have to be maintained, the co.
manages to do very well without large
liabilities. The total is £93,812, partly mort-
gage. partly overdrafts and deposits.' partly
trade debts-—the last-named unexpectedly
... . 4 comparative smallness of the
liabilities—considerably smaller than in re-
cent years is due mainly to a reduction of
stocks and the wise accumulation of surplus
profits. In three years nearly £65.000 has
been available from the latter source for the
strengthening of the business; and that is
an achievement for which the business and
Hie management are mutually entitled to
give one another three cheers and loud
applause. There are not many businesses
that can pay an average of nearly 10 p.c. on
watered capital and then lay 7 by 7 an annual
t p.c.; and there are not so verv many
managements that would make that lav-bv
even if they could. However, the wisdom of
the policy will be made evident in the strenu-
ous times ahead of us; for the less borrowed
money a concern now has locked up and de-
manding interest, the less its worries are
likely to he.
* * * *
The Savings Bank: of South Australia
which isn’t the State Bank of S. Aus
though if ought to be part of it:—
_ Interest to Written Rp-
3™e, Profits. Depositors. Off. serves.
1905 ' ‘ || P- e - = £ 126,708 £BBBl £163,580
lonr " Iro’onn If ” ” 137 ’ 000 6879 167,109
1907 “ ft ”’’ }H’ 277 7705 168,927
90S" s f’|| 7 |l ” ” 147 ’ 157 3640 183,087
J 225 • • 34 „ „ 163,429 8811 195,159
fq?e ' It ’> » 178 > 044 8952 206,752
mi:: IS If ;; Si $!8 Ill’Ll
19l! ' ' 981’flq If ” ” 344 > 287 1601 235:330
loll" llViscof*” ” 263,969 2308 250,542
1914 .. 312 955 34* „ „ 283,321 6695 273,481
On amounts under £250.
Besides having the usual post-office branches
of the Commonwealth Savings Bank, S
Australia has a State Bank and also this
Savings Bank guaranteed by the Govern-
ment. Moreover, it not only has these two
State Banks, one of which is quite unneces-
sary. but both of them are gradually extend-
ing their overlapping organisations. This
Savings Bank has already 28 branches and
2(53 agencies, and it is dotting the- State with
new premises whose principal object, of
course, is to compete with the Common-
wealth Bank. That is to say, Brown as a
citizen of S. Aus. is permitting his money
to be employed in fighting himself as a citi-
zen of the Commonwealth. Brown’s leg is
being pulled in this manner, and his money
is being wasted, for two reasons; (1) If
there was only one bank instead of two (or
three, as a matter of fact), some now-wasted
salaries would be saved. Naturally the
people who are drawing the salaries would
rather see the waste than get the sack.
(2) If the Commonwealth Bank collected the
money the State Government might not be
so free to peck at it as it is at present.
That, however, is a matter which could and
should be arranged. There never has been a
time, indeed, when the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment hasn’t been willing to allow a most
liberal feed to the State cormorants. But
nothing has been arranged so far. and there
is consequent waste; and waste means weak-
ness.
In eight years the aggregate amount at
depositors’ credit has very nearly doubled :
1906 .. £4,750,192
1907 . . 5,304.704
1908 . . 5,803,301
1909 . . 6,328,870
1910 .. 6,771,150
1911 .. £7,411,710
1912.. 5,223,260
1913 . . 8,608,478
1914 ~ 9,018,837
The accumulation hasn’t been so swift in
the last couple of years, though bigger in-
terest earnings should, of course, have made
it swifter. The truth is S. Aus. hasn’t been
feeling so well lately. Its wheat' yield last
year was under ~i bushels per acre ; and
this year it is going to be still less. How-
ever, while things were good the central
State maintained its old reputation for
being frugal and thrifty, and of every 100
people 56 have a trifle in this Savings Bank
—an extraordinary proportion, unmatched
perhaps anywhere else in the world. For
the whole Commonwealth the proportion is
only 40 per 100. The average amount per
depositor is not as great as in some of the
States ; but S. Aus. is the only part of the
Commonwealth where, if the whole of the
deposits were divided up, there would be
more than £2O a head for all the people of
the State. As might be judged by the vigor
with which the State supports the bank,
most of its funds are borrowed by the Gov-
ernment. Local public securities represent
£0,051,645, or 54 p.c. of all the assets, and
another 2J p.c. is on deposit at the Treasury.
There is 23 p.c. out on mortgage: and 71
p.c. is on fixed deposit with other banks. To
its exceedingly low expense rate and its
substantial reserve fund, this bank thus adds
the virtue of being energetic enough to
mostly find investments for itself, instead of
passing the job on to other banks.
Wright, lleaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers and suppliers of station goods:—•
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
T , „ £ £ £ £ £
> •'’ v ’ 955 10 P.c. = 3500 4455 34,339
Jan., 08.. 8,826 10 ~ „ 3500 5326 39,665
July, ,08.. 8,054 10 „ „ 3500 4000 554 40,219
Jan., 09.. 7.167 10 „ „ 3500 5000 . 38,886
July, 09.. 7,056 10 „ ~3500 4500 37,942
Jan., MO., 7,415 10 „ „ 3500 3000 915 38,857
July, 10.. 7,252 10 „ „ 3500 3000 752 39,609
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 29,609
Jan., ’ll.. 7,450 10 p.c. = 4000 3000 450 30,059
July, 11.. 7,852 10 „ „ 4000 3000 852 30,911
Jan., 12.. 10,445 10 „ „ 4250 0195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 27,106
Premiums on new shares . . . . 4000 31 106
July, ’12.. 10,742 10 p.c. = 4750 - 5992 37!098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000 .. 58,098
Jan., 13.. 9,124 10 p.c. a: 5000 4124 62 222
July, ’13.. 7,895 10 ~ ~ 5000 2595 65 117
Jan., 14.. 8,532 10 „ „ 5000 3532 68,’649
July, 14.. ~670 10 ~ „ 5000 2670 71.319
Times arc not good for these energetic
people. Like every concern whose principal
customers are Messrs. Hayseed and Merino,
Wright-Heaton hold a large collection of
1 .A. s and the like. Now, the agricultural
and pastoral P.N. is usually redeemable in
r ebruary or thereabouts, when the wool and
wheat cheques come in, and as prospects of
a wheat cheque this year are very gloomy,
cocky is cutting expenses to the bone, which
means doing without many of the things
Ungbt-lleatons supply. Further, when his
IJV falls due. Hayseed will produce an
bank book and ask for an extension
ol time, and most likely for a few things to
carry on with. The wool man is a little
better off. There certainly was a wool clip,
but there are no sales to speak of. More-
over the losses of stock are very serious—
and they are the most serious in the outer
country where no doubt Wright-lleaton’s
trade is largest.
. Some further idea of how the eo, stands
is given by the next table: —
Liabilities.
Jan., Julv, Jan.. July,
n , 1909. 1913. 1914. 1914.
General .. . . £37,648 £50,093 £55,627 £49,472
Assets.
£ ilsll ■ y , • ■ 23,263 26,934 27,796 16,760
Premises, plant, etc. 15,202 19,972 19,238 18 739
Stock .. 27,501 47,561 48,194 45,719
k J eb , ts ., 60,4/2 99,243 106,548 108,147
McCulloch Co. . . 21,846 25,000 25,000 34^926
thing but very careful manage-
ment there would be room for a heap of bad
debts there, even in ordinary times. Fortu-
nately. though the co. could hardly have anti-
cipated all the troubles that now afflict com-
merce. it has been steadily preparing for a
certain amount of adversity, and lias accu-
mulated big reserves—out-of, ..profits. The
paid capital is £lOO,OOO, and there is a
further ~ £50,000 unissued'.' Against the
£49,472 of liabilities, the co. has £16,760
represented by cash, £34,926 is in the
successful McCulloch Carrying Co., of Vic-
toria and £45.f19 is in stock, mostly of a
sort that could command a quick sale.
The position is therefore very strong:
and though the next year or two will he
dying ones, the A right-lleatoii Co., through
prudent management, can stand a lot of
knocking about. Profits, by the way, are
shown after a bonus to the staff of £lOOO
has been deducted.
* * * *
The Brisbane Permanent Building
and Banking Co.
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
1902 . . £5448 4 p.c. =*4701 £640 £47 £18,955
1903 .. 4808 4 „ „ 4 703 394 18,606
1904 .. 4227 3j„ ~ 3899 284 44 18,650
1905 .. 2867 Nil 10.322 - 5,195
1906 . . 1353 Nil 542 811 6,006
£24,393 capital written off and added to
reserves . . . . . . • • 30,399
£22,874 written off properties . . 7,525
1907 .. 1970 2 p.c. = 1746 1,181 6,568
190 S .. 2633 2 „ ~ 1746 1,632 5,823
1909 . . 3800 3 ~ ~ 2620 828 352 6,175
.1910 .. 5710 4 „ „ 3495 2221 8.396
1911 .. 5957 4:} ~ 3714 550 1693 10,089
1912 .. 7370 4f „ „ 4151 3219 13,308
1913 .. 7824 5., „ 4369 3455 16,763
1914 .. 9915 5 ~ 4369 5546 22,309
Of the profit shown for the past year £646
has fallen into the Contingency Reserve
without mentioning where it came from;
but it is pretty certain that it was the net
surplus over book values made on the sale
of properties in hand. Practically all these
properties have now been either got rid of
or written down to nothing or thereabouts.
Bor some years to 1012 the co. thought that
the less it said about such assets the better,
and they were consequently lumped with
advances on mortgage, the halt and the
blind being thus hidden among the sound
and the seeing. In 1012 a clean breast was
made of the whole matter ; but by that time
there were only £7112 of freeholds to con-
fess to. This year the total has been re-
duced to £1782. However, the co. has
£252,976 out on mortgage, and there’s plenty
of room for trouble there, more particularly
as no less than £88,225 has been advanced
during the past year. This means, not only
that the money lias been advanced at a time
when high values have ruled, but that the
co. hasn't been repaid much of the original
advances. The question now is: How many
of these borrowers are likely to throw the
securities on the co.’s hands? It depends,
of course, mostly upon the sort of time that
is ahead of Queensland. So far as one can
see, it shouldn’t lie a shockingly bad time.
For one thing. Queensland is pretty well
free from drought; in fact, the Darling
Downs are having a better-than-average
year. The wool market is as disorganised for
Queensland as tor the rest of Australia; but
the drought in the South won’t make Queens-
land s fat bullocks any less valuable. And
finally for its great sugar crop there is the
Australian waiting with the money in Ip’s
hand —a fine object-lesson in the value of a
home market. Altogether, then, though the
Northern State must suffer, inasmuch as it
bad many men employed on loan works
which must stop, and many others engaged
nr mining which lias stopped, its immediate
prospects are distinctly less dolorous than
those of any other mainland State.
~.£!«* sh;u 'P capital is £89.584. including
£(»>i paid in advance of calls. The liabili-
Ues are £173,411, practically all deposits.
'public s money-there is. as near as pos-
sible. £150,000 not represented bv liquid
a " ainst that £150,000 there are
of- advances, £lO,OOO in premises,
and a few trifles. Even if all the advances
weie new and had had nothing paid off them,
there would be so very comfortable a margin
here for shrinkage that the depositors, at,
any rate, needn’t worry. Besides the visible
reserves shown above there is £1336 to the
credit of a suspense account, and that is
probably some sort of reserve, too. Alto-
gether, the co. deserves to come through this
season of stress without a scratch, because
or the determined manner in which it lias
strengthened- its position at the expense of
*. dividends. In three years past it has
divided only £12,880 of a total of £25,100 of
net profit.
there is trouble in the Sydney wool trade.
At the start of the war the sales were sus-
pended indefinitely and N. S. Wales growers
were advised by the Associated Selling
brokers to store as much as possible of
tins year s clip on the stations, as it would
be impossible, it was said, to accommodate
u and cover it with insurance in Sydney
Jbe Co-operative Co., however, came into
( , n . nf ic 1 t anee more with the other firms, and
offered free storage. As a result probably
ot this a considerable quantity of wool
reached Sydney. No auction sales were
neld, but as the weeks went on and the
trade routes were open, Jap.. U.S. and a
few British and French buyers inquired for
parcels, and a fair amount of business has
been done privately. The Co-op. says it


The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, GERMANY, etc.
New Direct Cable to Auckland from Board’s
Sydney Office opened December, 1912.
A Week End rate is now available between
Great Britain and Australasia. Rate 9d. per
word, with minimum of 15s. (20 words).
Week End Cable Letters are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain on the following Tuesday morning.
TARIFF PER W’ORD “VIA PACIFIC.’’
Daily.
Ordinary.
3/
Deferred.
1/6
1/6
Great Britain ..
Germany . . .. 3/-
New Zealand .. -/ 4 A
Canada •• 2/4 1/2
U.S.A
Argentine, Brazil, )_
Chili and Peru I
West Indies, Central
rates on application.
Cable Forms, Deferred and Week
Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1846 (3 lines).
408 Collins Street, WelHburne. Tek 2585.
,1. MILWARD. Manager in the Pacific.
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 1/4
5/8* 2/10}
America and other
End
ĥ
A GOOD INVESTMENT!
DUNLOP
MINING and
ENGINEERING GOODS
CAN ALWAYS BE RELIED ON FOR
quality, wear
and SATISFACTION
any class of goods madeto order
SAMPLES AND TENDERS SUBMITTED.
LISTS ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide. I^J% Bnsbane
I Wellington and Christchurch.
“Cut out everything that isn’t bringing jits shaie
of profits,” is the message that is going iorth n.m
every executive office these (lays, anil it is in c<
ing out this message that wc. can help oi» - •
Engineer or Plant Owner. Out in your machine .hor
“Pioneer” leather belting on all voar v
make every minute count. •Pioneer keeps pullc}.
whirring at full speed all the time-it gripe anil
doesn’t slip—you don’t have to use youi money 1 •
»ettin°' it to work. “Pioneer” is the specially tanned
and built-up centre cuts of flaw!
hides It works in thousands of Austialias bilges*
power plants, and has been awarded all the topenal,
State and Federal Department contracts foi
\sk “Pioneer” particulars from our nearest office.
“Pfnrper” is made only by J. C. Ludowiei & Son
Ltd “Pio.feer” Wo?ksf 117 York Street Sydney;.
and ’sold in Victoria by Geo. Russell-P t y LW,, Fhn
Hers Street, Melbourne; in South Australia
J. McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide; in Queens-
land bv Queensland Machinery Co. Ltd., Briffiiane,
•n W Australia by Horace Summers, Howard Street,
Perth’; in Broken' Hill by Geo. C. Dempster, Argent
Street.’* . # *
C A. Parsons k Co. Ltd., Ncwcastle-on-Tyne, are
now making their geared turbines whereby the
Parsons’ Steam Turbine may be geared to a s ow-
running dynamo, pump, etc. Sets up to 4000 k.w.
are already running, and a large geared turbo punip-
ing set is shortly arriving for the Metropolitan Boaid
of Water Supply and Sewerage, Sydney. High
efficiency is secured and the economy of the “V 1 *
speed turbine is still maintained. . The Union
steamer Maheno has recently been re-engined and fitted
with geared turbines, and numerous other boats are
now running. Sole agents. William Adams and Com-
pany Limited, Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane and
Perth.* # , , *
From done to September the Bacchus Marsh Shire
Council ( Vic.) crushed and spread 3000 cub. yards
of road metal, at an average cost of 2s. 6d. pel cun.
yard, and the cost of the spalls per cub. yard aver-
aged 2s. 4d., making a total cost of 4s. lOd. per cub.
yard, broken and spread. Their last contract under
the handbreaking system amounted to 6s. 3d. per
cub. yard stacked on the roadside, and spreading Is. ,
total, 7s. 3d., as against 4s. lOd. — a saving of 2s. od.
per cub. yard, 'this result was obtained by using a
Bigelow ioin. x 9in. Patent Stonecrusher, and the
Austral Otis Eng. Co., Ltd., of Melbourne, are the
manufacturers of these breakers.* I-
* * *
Extract from The City Review, London, January
17 1914 re The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd.“ This led to the appointment by the
Lieutenant-Governor of Victoria of certain distin-
guished actuaries to investigate the affairs otthe
Society, with the result that we anticipated. those
gentlemen reported that at the date of their investiga-
tion (December 31, 1911) the Society was sound and
solvent, and able to meet all its liabilities, immedi-
ate and prospective, and they expressed the emphatic
opinion that the charges of fraud, dishonesty, mis-
management and incapacity made against the dnee-
tors and managers were wholly unjustified. * LA
PIONEER WOOD PIPE has been installed by the
principal water boards throughout the Commonwealth.
Everywhere we hear of its absolute efficiency.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe ( 0., Ltd.,
Contractors to all State Governments, 57 York Stieet,
Sydney (Head #
Mr. R. O’Hara, Glen Innes, writes: “I have much
pleasure in advising you that 1 have now used the
34-b.li.p. Hornsby Stationary Oil Engine for the
past eight seasons, shearing over 130,000 sheep, some
of the shearers tallying over 200 sheep per day, the
average 1684 per man. During the whole time 1
have had the engine in use it has never given the
slightest trouble, and not a moment has been lost,
the shearers stating that they have never experienced
such a smooth-running engine.”—lE Hornsby & Sons,
Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.* # f l
T Malcolm Newman, Consulting Mining
Engineer, Pratten Building, Jamieson Street,
Sydney.* * ♦ *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so. write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, i 7 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
PETROLEUM. —George D. Meudell, of 8 Scott s
Court, Melbourne, requires boring options or leases
over likely oil areas in Australia. Will give liberal
terms.*
* * * *
In addition to making Wrought Iron. Steel and
Cist Iron Pipes, Messrs. Mephan Ferguson 1 ro-
prietary Limited, of Footscray, Victoria, have one of
the largest general Engineering Shops in Australia,
and manufacture Sluice Valves. Bolts. Nelyambo
Scoops, Pile Shoes, Bridges and Contractors Iron-
work of every description.*
Mine managers when requiring new Steam Boilers
are invited to communicate with Babcock k Wilcox,
Ltd., who have supplied their Patent Safety Water-
tube Boilers to the majority of leading mines in
Australia.*
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collisox & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years practice. Mute
us for Inventors’ Guide.* # #
Assayers, Mine Managers and Prospectors write
to H B Silberberg and Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street,
Sydney and at Melbourne, for particulars concerning
ruining requisites and scientific apparatus. Braun s
disc pulverisers to 200 mesh ; hand sample grinders to
120 mesh; Ainsworth’s assay balances sensitive to
1/13000 <*rain; prospectors’ balances to 1/1000
"•rain- weight; pocket transits; gasoline combination
furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles: chemicals: etc.
NOBEL-GLASOOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ROYDS, LTD., Investors’ Advisers, Challis House, Sydney
lias sold over 0000 bales that " a J- ,
<auction sales have been arranged , but only
)•> 000 bales are to be submitted by *•> nim. .
Idie object of the limitation is to increase
the competition. But obviously that couldn t
be done effectively if private sales were still
permitted; so the selling brokets
decided that, as from about a week ago,
there were to be no more sales by innate
treaty. This of course means that the •"1
ply is to be purely artificial, with the one
plain object of making purely
quotations. The growers thus find them
selves in this position : as only tins hand u
of wool in the aggregate is to be sold in
Sydnev at auction, and as no wool at au
is to be sold privately, they have precious
little chance of selling their clip in Aus-
tialia; and many of them are therefore
talking of sending it to London tor sale
which, for one thing, means a certain amount
of loss to Australia. The Selling Brokers As-
sociation may possibly have good reasons toi
prohibiting private sales after so severely
restricting auction sales; but at present it
looks just as bad a piece of union tyranny
as ever emanated from any trades hall.
* * * *
Mount Baring, or “Dad's Millions, ’ about
eight miles from Oberon (N.S.NV.), is b ; * v ~
ing attention prior to a systematic test. Ihe
show is a large low-grade one, and if the
gold contents are sufficiently substantial
there is a very large supply of ore to operate
on. Most of the gold being fine, cyamding
will be an essential part of the process, and
at first an attempt will be made to obtain
payable results by dry-crushing and direct
cyanidation. L. O. Wilkinson, formerly ot
Stawell (Vie.), is in charge of the treat-
ment part of the venture. A good deal of
money has been spent on Mount Baring,
but it has never yet been tried on a large
scale, although a few small trial crushmgs,
bagged and carted to other works, have
yielded satisfactory results. As usual with
such surface deposits (no great depth has
been attained in the workings), assay values
are erratic, rich gossany. veins and poorer
lode matter being intermixed, but all tests
point to the wisdom of giving the proposi-
tion a trial. If it pans out satisfactorily,
Dad’s Millions will be a very attractive
proposition indeed, quantity being already
assured, and an improvement in quality
with further development is probable.
* * * *
Negotiations have been in progress
between the N.S.W. Government and cer-
tain tin-buyers, with the object of inducing
the latter to resume business —anyway, for
•six months, as an experiment. The buyers,
however, don’t want to carry any of the real
risk. In other words, they propose simply
to make advances guaranteed by the _ Gov-
ernment. An apparently-hopeless. difficulty
has arisen with regard to the price which
should be offered. They say £BO for a TO
p.c. concentrate is as much as any sane per-
son should pay ; and the man who is inter-
ested in a tin show scoffs at the figure. Still,
the buyers easily remember the time when
stream tin sold at 15s. per unit, which means
£49 10s. per ton for a 70 p.c. concentrate ; so
they are not likely to agree that £BO is a
preposterously inadequate basis for the pro-
posed advance.
* * * *
“Derwent” : Sulman, a metallurgist, _ of
London, is “emphatic in the view that zinc-
smelting works could be erected in W ales
to cope with the full output of zinc concen-
trates from Broken Hill,” and thus permit
“England regaining the substantial portion
of the smelting industry which she lost to
German works during the past decade.” The
same Sulman “argued that the possession of
Welsh coal (which is exported to the Con-
tinent for the express purpose of dealing
with this product) and skilled labor made it
every way reasonable.” Queer how these
sleepers-awakened never consider the possi-
bility of Australia working no its own ores
into metal! The Freetrade lunatic who
believes in keeping Australia as a mere wood-
and-water joey for the Old World of. cheap
labor, will quote that same cheap labor as
proof against Australian spelter manufac-
ture on a big scale. But Australian labor,
if relatively dear, is proportionately good;
and, with the right use of water for power,
we can beat Swansea, anyway. Roughly,
it takes lh.p. per annum to decom-
pose a ton of zinc, and if move-
ment from coal costs £25 or so per
h.p. per annum, naturally working costs seem
prohibitive. But the Hydro Metallurgical
Works recently taken over by Tas. Govern-
ment can produce energy for £4 or £5 per
h.p. per annum, and therefore Tasmania is
the place for the Australian manufacture of
spelter. As to the comatose nature of the
English metallurgist, we have Sulman’s state-
ment that the British possession of Welsh
coal—“which is exported to the Continent
for the special purpose of dealing with this
product”—constitutes a reason why Broken
Hill concentrates should go to Wales. But
they’d best import first a few hard-headed
men who will be horrified at the spectacle of
a country so fat-headed in its devotion to
Freetrade that it lost a smelting trade to
Germany, and then supplied Germany with
coal to help it keep the trade.
Though the Commonwealth Oil Corpora-
tion’s shale-mines and works are still u e•
the British-Australian Co. has got thiough
its troubles, and its works at Murrurundi
and Newcastle (N.S.W.) are in operation.
Considerable supplies have been made to
the navy; and, generally, while the financial
results are not yet what they should be. a
thoroughly-satisfied market is being steadi.y
established for the various products.
* ■* *
Chaffers (W.A.) has resumed ore treat-
ment. In 1913, when the remodelling of the
mill and residue works was decided on, ore
in sight was said to be 105,000 tons, of a
recoverable value of 255. Od. Costs were
estimated at 235. 3d., with development
thrown in, leaving a possible profit of 2s. bd.
per ton. On a promised 6000 tons a
month this meant £750. But what share-
holders will get out of it won't keep them in
tobacco, and if the stock is to be worth hav-
ing the co. must lift the grade. Since tne
co.’s reconstruction a lot of fresh ground has
been broken ; and if values come up to any-
thing like the average indicated by official
assays, the lifting of the grade should be
possible. Unfortunately, the show has
always been spotted; hence little dependence
shouid be put on it.
* * * *
Edna May Central (W.A.) has plenty of
ore if all that is reported is there; but the
yarns about continuous ounce crusliings are
nonsense. It won't manage much more than
half an ounce, unless it gets a turn-up in
depth, or a windfall from some other source.
The latest from the West is that the
Edna May and Central reefs are two dis-
tinct bodies which come together near the
boundary of the two shows and form a oO to
40 feet bulge.
* * * *
Series of semi-official whoops raised on be-
half of Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) : “Since
the beginning of the year development on
Nos. 2 and 3 lodes between 1000 and los4
feet levels has proved values to increase and
extend much further south than in the work-
ings above. .. .The grade of ore in this part
of the mine is much higher than the average
milled during the past three or four years,
and should help the reserves materially when
the estimate for the current year is arrived
at. No. 3 lode is worth 635. 9d. for 200 ft.
and No. 2 lode is of the same value at the
1184 ft. level. . . .Bight down from 24S0ft. to
2900 ft. the work done on No. 4 lode has
exposed high-grade ore. with occasional sec-
tions of free gold and telluride. In one in-
stance assays rose to 12755. per ton. lhen
how is it that the co. continues to struggle
along, with returns that leave very little
towards wiping out the debts ? Surely this
better-class stuff is get-at-able by nowj
Speakman’s, on Hampton Plains (W.A.),
is installing a 10-head mill and gas-producer
plant. This co. was formed in Melbourne
in June, to acquire the holdings of the Hamp-
ton Boulder and Hampton Properties, Ltd.
The amalgamation was recommended by J.
Miller, formerly of Long Tunnel, who de-
clared it necessary in order to operate the
big, low-grade deposits to the best advan-
tage. Miller estimated that there was a
good chance of a quarter of a million or
more tons of 7dwt. being opened up to go on
with. „ „
Great Boulder’s perseverance in regard to
its Victorian options is not appreciated in
the West. Letters are pouring into the
newspapers wanting to know why tlm co.
goes on spending its reserve fund elsewnere,
when it might with little trouble find some-
thing worth gambling on in the country
where it made all its money. No doubt the
co. will be delighted to hear from anybody
who knows where the promising propositions
are - *
Siberia Consols (W.A.) claims to be on
payable ore. All the good stuff seems to
have been included in the recent crushing,
but there are still about 2000 tons of lower-
grade dirt dumped on the surface, lhe
Board is anxious to treat this, but can t tor
want of water. # #
South Kalgurli (W.A.) reports; “satis-
factory finds” in the main workings at
S73ft.. and in the Hainault at 1026 ft
Wodgina tinfields. in the Nor’-West, are now
deserted. War. . .The Devon, at Linden, which
was bought at the sale of the defunct West-
ralia United’s effects in June for £3OO. is
to be reworked. In addition to the lease
the purchasers got a five-head mill and £SOO
worth of mine stores. The shareholders got
nothing. , * *
The Edna May group has got off the Em-
press (W.A.) in Melbourne; it was recom-
mended hv J. S. Hartrick, who had picked
up the Edna for the same Victorian people—
mostly Tolly and Tricks. Terms of pur-
chase' make the droughty mouth moist.
First. £lOOO was given by the syndicate for
an option to buy the mine for an additional
£OOOO. making the cash payment £lO,OOO.
On the float the new co. furnished this
£9OOO. as well as £4500 for plant and devel-
opment. According to Hartrick. In 9 tons
already crushed gave 10,022 oz„ which is very
choice. There has been a lot of gouging
below 200 ft.; which convinces Hartrick that,
as values hold at 2|oz. below the water
level, the danger zone is passed. He casts
up that the shoot is widening, though when
one gets into diorite the odds on that hap-
pening are very short. AVi th Haitiick s
recommendation behind if. there isn’t the talk
there might be over 15.000 10s. paids going
to the svndicate to recompense it for the
£IOUO it furnished towards the purchase.
The Westralian opinion seems to be that the
Empress is a nice, small-man’s claim, thus
conflicting with Hartrick’s view that he lias
hit a double in Edna and the Empress.
From the Sheepshead run of stone. Bendigo,
Ironbark has paid £19,834 in dtvs.,_and still
has about 400 ft. to open up before it gets to
the Hercules and Energetic boundary. Work
is proceeding on the east leg and at a depth
of from 500 ft. down, the intention being to
open up the saddle on its pitch to the north.
South of the shaft the turnover of the saddle
gives a block of fair crushing dirt, but the
legs are not very fat. Victoria Consols,
south of Ironbark, is now getting the bencht
of the shoot in the cap of the same saddle,
hut the stone must carry more colors if it is
to live up to the present newspaper pulls.
The co. has-winzed down on the Central Blue
run of stone, and finds a few colors on which
to feed the imagination of the faithful who
have made the claim their sheet anchor.
Bendigo, though in the blues over the war,
did fairly well in September, with an output
of 13.4890 z., or 700 oz. below the yield tor
September, 1913. Yields have run for the
first three quarters of the past four or five
years as follows: 1910, Id-.Od^oz.; 1914-
131 0440 z.; 1912, 130,821 oz.; 1913,
123,5460 z.; 1914, 124,2540 z The current
year’s output thus boats lhat of 1913, amt
it would be larger still if tributors got easier
conditions. Bread is • wanted now, and
there is plenty of ground available in upper
levels where the miner could earn it inis
matter wants probing. The present is no
time for cos. to play dog-in-the-manger.
Old hands quitted Ivyneton (Vic.) in the
vear 1 (or thereabouts) because they be-
lieved the shoots duffered out in the shallow
ground. Now a crusade to get into the tight
country is led by Benjamin Beer and W.
McGregor. On the Premier group Beei lias
done the sinking and is rustling along to get
up a 15-head battery, which is to show some
4oz. vields. When he gets the battery tell-
ing this tale McGregor’s appeal for a fw
modest pounds for the South, next duo,,
won’t be 1 in vain. Kynetou, however, won t
denose the havseed trade, on which it liar
fattened until it sees that the new brow
isn’t all froth. » * *
Queensland gold and gold-copper dWidends
for the first nine months of the J O9 , 1
slumped badly. To the en d. of September;
1913 shareholders had received £l<B,oW,
this year only £ll4-889 had been handed
OUt ,'. t h' rh l4f32lto ,rl lySz'! " »“ii
£750 27] For September alone the short-
age was £12,408. Charters Towers pro-
rlneed 4901 oz. as compared with 513.)0z. in
September 1913, and Mount Morgan
84530 z. against 872 <oz. #
Gevser Bill’s boil-over is being keenly felt
all through North Queensland. The Home
Tfnlo Roaring Meg and Bode lint
closed down immediately the eruption
started. The Annan River Co. alone kei
going, but only in the erection of
which has already run into some tens
thousands. 11ns plant will . . A
powerful hydraulic mining machinery m the
Noith. if not in Queensland. All round tne
co. has done great pioneering woik mth
face of big obstacles. H Jecldi 1 iancm,
who has managed the show f jom the * In t.
brings it to success, the Noitli vuu ou.\
him drinks for seven years.
Manv of the scratchers are turning to gold.
The May town mine, which has got Govern-
ment help? is beginning to get a move on.
Men are now making the necessary found a
tioTs for the machinery, which has already
been bought from the recently-burst French
co at Wolfram Camp. This machinery is said
to' have cost £40,000 one way and another
The Mavtown people paid £l2BO toi the lot.
Fletcher, with N.S.W. and S. African ex-
perience, has been appointed manager. The
Government had the biggest say m this.
Should the show, which means the Eouisa
and Ida, prove a success, there will be a
boom in the Palmer reef mines. In most
cases water was struck at shallow depths and
the old miners had to stop. In these da s
of powerful pumping machinery a small
inflow of water should be no serious obstack.
The reefs, which were very rich near suitaee.
are unquestionably worth a thorough tna .
South Aus. Oil Wells Co. last week let a
contract for machinery plant and equip-
ment; Overall and McCray, Ltd., of > .)d
ney, are to do the job. The plant and casing
will be designed to go down to ooOOft. Boi
ing should be started before the, end othe
year, as the machinery will begin to anive
on the ground at once.
* * *
In the art of writing reports to excuse
failures there isn’t a man in Australia wiui
more experience than J. S. Reid Etheridge
Gold Mines. Ltd., formed in 1911 under the
wing of Chillagoe. came a cropper within
two years. In 1913 another co. was formed,
and it got to work on the remodelling of the
almost-new plant. Says Reid as ’
“The alterations were completed and the
mill started on August 3. For the fortnight
during which the run continued the null
worked well, with good results, the recovery
being good, and the residues practically
valueless. Just then, however, the meta
markets of the world were closed through
the war. The concentrates were thus ren-
dered unsaleable, and the directors were
most reluctantly forced to suspend opera-
tions.” Of course you don’t get a word about
the financial results. In fact, though Ile
manager gives a report dated September 1.
not a word is said there about the plant oi
the run it had. except for a remark in a
footnote that it is “proved that the Queens-
lander ore can be treated most satistactonly
by the M.S. process.” The ore reserves are
still wretchedly small —16,000 tons in the
four mines—and the value, from 15 to -1
dwt., is nothing to talk about. As usual
with these Chillagoe and allied concerns,
the co. is in a bad financial way: as far back
as June 30, counting in estimated value ot
ore on hand, it had less than £2500 of liquic.
assets, and owed £2979.
* * * *
Tyrconnell (N.Q.) gladdened its backers
with 22Soz. from 95 tons. There are
140,000 shares of 2s. 6d. each, of which
26,500 are unissued —or were unissued re-
cently—and 113,500 are a lot to divide the
proceeds of 95 tons among. Since the bat-
tery made a start 2428 tons have been
crushed for 30290 z., a shade under 25dwt.
per ton ; but the bullion in some instances
is heavily charged with silver. The smaller
crushings recently are due to t:e dry sea-
son. But that will soon be at an end; and
as the mine is being opened at the 201 it.
level on an unusually big binge of quartz,
there should be glad news for some time
to come. „ ,


Caidiljra-iirt*^
s mm
HEERIHG
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. JBJB.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
TEN YEARS OLD.
Mother’s
Friend—
PEDIC POMADE for THE HEAD
Strikes infesting vermin dead. One applica-
tion destroys vermin, kills nits, heals sores, cures
ringworm, and makes the hair grow thick and
curly. Kills lice on live stock.
Sydney Agents: Talbots, 200 George Street;
and Washington Soul. Sold by all Chemists
and Stores, or posted from J. Brin, Chemist.
Kast Malvern, Vic.—l/2, 2/3, 3/9, and with Nit
PoTnli. firl. oyfrn.
Exclusive Agent
Wanted
to sell our portrait
enlargements, picture
frames and novelties
in art goods. Excellent
opportunity for any
Merchant or Agent
The sale of this
line of goods is very re-
numerative. You may
charge good prices for our
. portrait novelties. No ex-
perience required. We will send free of charge, our
book of instructions and general catalog. We furnish
bank references. 20 successful years in the export
business is our best reference.
Consolidated Portrait & Frame Co.
1029—D-10 W. Adams St.. Chicago. 111.. U. S. A.
ħ
(Bp
The
Lot
Duchanans
*
m \
T?rCrl
"S
rz
mm
>*%
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 19, 1914.
My Dear Arini, —
(Jbief Justice Cullen, who steps iuside the
glittering chancellor’s robe, in which the late
Dr. Normand MacLaurin looked like a Grand
Llama or something equally imposing, is
the first Australian-born citizen to fill the
recesses and suburbs of the garment. As
Chancellor of Sydney Uni. the new man
isn’t likely to peer into official details that
the Registrar-General’s clerk can see to, as
the late chief did. Dr. MacLaurin had
plenty of time to make a hobby of the
Senate and its frills, but C.J. Cullen will
preside amicably over its peace and storms
without dislocating his own duties, and may-
be the ’Varsity will be none the worse.
Apparently, by the way, the election of
C.J. Cullen wasn’t compassed without some
heartburnings. Backhouse, a District Court
Judge, has been the hardworking vice-
chancellor for many years; and after the
Chancellorship had been refilled, one of the
first jobs of the Senate was to accept the
V.-C.’s resignation. It seems to be a rather
serious thing to be a mere District Court
Judge.
The great recall to arms tears Aide Wake-
man from these shores. This affluent young
man was wandering round the globe for
pleasure when he strayed this road. There
happened to be a vacant niche in the sub-
regal Help Department, so the traveller
put down his swag at Government House.
As a matter of fact, no Governor in Aus-
tralia will be able to appear in dejected
Society with even the tamest species of
whiskerless warrior clanking at his heels
if the British War Office goes on drag-
netting all our best young men. Mr. Wake-
man is a lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards
and is curtly mentioned as being on the
reserve of officers. He has shed the title
“Captain,” which falls on every member of
a gubernatorial staff, and hies home to arm
for the fray.
The rain pattered down on the rubber-
tyred and the merely rubber-shod as they
fled through the wet streets to the Town
Hall, where a concert had been organised for
the French Red Cross by Mrs. Charvin
(pianist Yvonne Leverrier). Up the cold
stone steps panted the andience, and down
the same bleak address dashed the lady
pirates, clad in French and Belgian peasant
garb, to relieve the newcomers of their super-
fluous cash. Programmes, flags and flowers
were sold for the cause. The vigorous at-
tacking party included Miss Isabel Ramsay,
who fell upon the dazed pedestrians before
they had time to shake the rain out of their
front hair.
The programme gave every promise of
going on from Saturday eve till Sabbath
morn. When a band, mentioned in the list
of items as the “State Military Band.”
settled down to deal out patriotic ditties, it
did so in an apparently unshakable belief
that time was made for slaves. Mrs. Charvin,
Malcolm McEacharn, Bryce Carter, Mabel
Batchelor, Airs. Alex. Gordon, John Lem-
mone and W. J. Coad did their little bit to
push the musical coach along.
The interval brought the most popular
event of this raid on Cash—the auction sale
of some fine bunting. British and Belgian,
Servian and French colors brought fancy
prices. So did a Jap. flag. Wild cheering
greeted the Belgian flag, and the uproar
became frantic when the price ran up to
£ll5. The buyer was Mr. Field. Mrs.
Macarthur Onslow’s voice downed opposi-
tion when a bit of British bunting was
offered. The bidder secured it for £llO. Mr.
Marieli, whose strong right hand had given
the French Red Cross concert a vigorous
push, bought a picture of George Rex for
£lO, and gallantly handed it to a lady. All
told, the flag-selling must have added about
£7OO to the receipts. After that it didn’t
matter if half the rest of the proceedings had
to be lopped off, so that the audience might
get home before the Sunday morning milk-
man banged at the back gate along with the
belated cat.
The national costume dress parade had a
beautifully-garbed French peasant set.
Britannia, rather wobbly in her headgear,
led her forces on the French heels. Little
Servia and Belgium had their evening out,
and Maori (and was represented by a maiden
with as fine a head of hair hanging down her
back as ever you saw in a hairdresser’s
advertisement.
The Free Kindergarten babes demonstrate
the joyous effects of belonging to the cult of
the Unsmacked Child in the Town Hall on
October 24.
The Battle of Flowers is .still in the offing.
Owing to the downpour last Saturday the
organisers pushed the carnival forward
another week. Damsels who are beautilnl
and damsels who only think they are, and
damsels that other people think they are
(this sentence is mixed, but I am in haste)
will struggle to be crowned Oueen on Octo-
ber 24. in the Agricultural Society’s arena,
Moore Park. The Bed Cross Fund is to get
the profits.
Mrs. Joe Cook, some time ago, wrote a
letter to the daily press, giving in detail all
the convolutions of “knit round, purl round
and cast off loosely.” This hint was for
the benefit of well-meaning enthusiasts whose
knitting is full, of large holes and draughts
and lumpy knots. Some of the alleged
knitters might look up the instructions to
purl before they dash forward to disaster.
To cast off loosely, with infuriated language,
will be the job of Tommy Cornstalk when
he puts his toes or his head through some of
the home comforts supplied by half-baked
knitters.
A Fiji friend tells me that the tropic isles
are having an anxious time, and plate, jewels
and other valuables have already been re-
moved, so far as possible, from Suva to a
place where the enemy’s cruisers can’t do
them any damage.
Mrs. Watteeuw, the Belgian Consul’s
wife, lias had the bad luck to be captured
by a scarlet-fever germ, which has made her
prisoner in sick bay for a while. This sug-
gests a doubt as to the wisdom of sending
second-hand clothes to the destitute babes in
Belgium. There’s quite a reasonable chance
of forwarding, with the best intentions, a
generous supply of measles and scarlet fever
along with the petti, and the pinny. You
can’t look a child’s gift frock in the seams
and tell the story of its career from what
you see there. So the safest present is the
stuff which the myriads of women workers
make up for nothing.
Captain Macintosh, who goes south later
on to interview the Emperor Penguin and
his court, left Sydney for Hobart the other
day. He steers the Aurora into this port,
war permitting, next month. In these stir-
ring times it -seems rather a dull exploit to
bury yourself alive in Antarctic solitudes.
But the frozen glamor of the Pole can drag
strong men like a grappling hook.
The Condominium Court in the New
Hebrides has recently shed its Acting-
Prosecutor, Mr. Bengel, who goes to Europe
on leave of absence. Europe isn’t much of
a place for a cheerful holiday just now; on
the other hand, the New Hebrides is pro-
bably a good set of islands to get away from.
It seems only a short time since Count Some-
thing von Other, the gentleman with the
imposing profile who is Judge of the Condo-
minium Court, passed this way for a trip to
France.
Did you notice that King Carol of Rou-
mania has left a beautiful obituary notice of
himself in his will? He meekly forgives
those who doubted his good intentions, and
hopes his successor will follow his noble
example—all for country, nothing for self.
(I'.S. —The patriot’s personal property ex-
ceeds £4,000.000.)
After the enemy’s recent visit to Papeete,
the big stores of Donald and Edenborough
were amongst the ruins. They went to
blazes in the general conflagration. Senior
partner Donald, of this Auckland firm,
hasn’t been much in Maoriland of late years.
He and his wife spend most of their time
in England with a married daughter. She
was the well-dowered Agnes Donald, who
said “I will” to Lieutenant George Steer,
R.N., a few years ago. When the old
liingarooma (now on the scrap-heap, most
likely) used to wallow round these shores,
Mr. Steer’s large and cheerful presence was
favorably known in local Society. The
Donalds are wealthy enough to stand the
Papeete racket without being very hard hit,
though it knocks a temporary hole in their
fruit trade to and from the tropic isles.
Willy Wagtail and co. took a back bough
this year. Bird Day was only a mild
chirrup amongst the school children, though
the Gould Bird Lovers’ fraternity fore-
gathered as usual. The large Turner Hall
at the Technical College was the meeting-
place ; and there small boys listened meekly
to Mr. Dawson’s advice rc the respectful
admiration they w-ere to offer to the
feathered warblers of the bush, instead of
chasing them with traps, guns, clods and
clubs.
Dora Christoe, whose papa is in charge
of the E. S. and A. Bank in this city, has
plighted her troth (there’s a fine Family
Herald flavor about this statement) to JUr.
William Donald, of Townsville. Dora is
a tall and comely damsel, but I don’t know
whether she takes one or two lumps of sugar
in her tea, or plays goff as persistently as
her father.
Walter Bentley will—bar accidents —have
given a continuous lantern-slide picture of
the Oberammergau Passion Play before this
reaches you. The funds go to the Alex-
andra Hospital for sick babes, which is
suffering from a hungry feeling in its
treasury.
The unpatriotic rain is getting a confirmed
habit of falling in buekets-full on outdoor
sports for patriotic funds. While the
parched country is fishing hard in its creeks,
with the hope that a pint of water will
bite at the worm on the end of the
line, Sydney is getting more or less web-
footed. ' Some day, perhaps, science may
evolve a new kind of meteorologist who will
be able to adjust the badly-arranged shower-
baths from aloft. At present the incur-
able trouble is that the rain always falls
in the wet regions, whereas it should fall
in the dry ones.
The State Schools’ big display on the
Sydney Cricket Ground was splashed with
rain before the youngsters had finished all
the events. The rush for shelter was unani-
mous. A few hearty young persons made a
futile effort to crawl under the sub-regal
motor, but the vehicle was not designed as
a shelter shed, and presently they fled to
the stands. The Strickland lady camped in
the car with two young daughters, while his
Ex. poked round to see the inwards of the
show. The living Union Jack was con-
fused by the tossing of small flags, which
blurred the sharp red, white and blue. Other-
wise it was a brilliant spectacle. The
sports and dances would have been well
arranged if the weather had left them alone.
Professor Tearne- —in his new spring mil-
linery—was in charge of the infantine efforts
to split the welkin with the Marseillaise and
similar topical songs. The youngsters had
been so well drilled that a second helping of
the display ought to help the Alexandra
Hospital with a fat cheque.
Mollie Piper, a great-grand-daughter of
the late Captain John Piper, of the old
X.S.W. (or Rum-selling) Corps is engaged
to Hugh Wolrige, a son of Dr. Wolrige, of
Manly. The girl’s great-grandpa Piper was
Commandant at Norfolk Island and Col-
lector of Customs (Sydney) during the ex-
cited old days. He owned the Point Piper
estate, which afterwards passed into the
keeping of Daniel Cooper. Captain Piper
bought Vaucluse from Sir Henry Hayes,
and sold it again to William Wentworth.
He went over to the innumerable caravan of
the dead in the ’3o’s at Bathurst, after dab-
bling in the dairy business at Alloway Bank.
Lieut. Graham, R.A.N., was wed to Miss
Isobel Chalon, of Woollahra, the other even-
ing.
Another naval sprig belonging to one of
our own warships. Lieut. Douglas Cooper,
brought his new bride to this port the other
day. The ’groom is now" afloat on the rolling
main, though I’m oledged, in the interests of
the State, not to mention even to you, my
dear, exactly where he is rolling. Besides,
I don’t know.
The naval and military dance in the Salon
de Luxe last week was a well-intended effort
to collect cash to add to the AEI submarine
disaster fund. But the naval and military
persons present had a gloomy air of having
been hurriedly scratched together, and didn’t
amount to anything very numerous or beau-
tiful. A Patriotic concert w r here flags can be
sold at fabulous prices seems to be the one
sure method of dragging the citizen from his
domestic hob these nights. Mrs. Charlie
Wade, supported by the twins, arrived in the
early part of the evening. The Brownlow
girls—as fashionably lean as greyhounds—-
and the Macneill Simpsons trod the Salon
floor in the more or less mazy hops of the
moment. Some youngsters in sea-going out-
fit piped a patriotic lay, and were understood
to hurl dreadful threats, at a long range,
at the enemy. The Belgian Consul, hugging
his opera hat under one arm, looked in for
five minutes. Manager Michael Joseph
wrestled valiantly with the generally flat
feeling in the atmosphere. Nothing but a
bucketful of cream of tartar (which is
undergoing a crisis and can’t be flung away)
would have made the affair rise to a light
froth.
Citizens in search of information have
been making serious pilgrimages to the
Trade Schools’ Exhibits, now showing in
Anthony Hordern’s new" Fine Arts’ Gallery.
The show" closes on October 24. Notable
specimens of Australian w T ood in the raw,
and the same timber after it has been vigor-
ously attacked with French polish, incite
the person w T ho has a turn for carpentry to
go forth and slay a living cedar that he may
turn it into a handsome dead bureau. Tas-
manian stringy-bark, heavily disguised as
Eucalyptus obliqua, looks like English oak
when a good craftsman has wrnrked it into
a cute little cabinet. Local marble, in slabs
of many-colored patterns, includes a fairly
venerable relic. This is a mantelpiece, made
in 1834, of the first marble quarried in Aus-
tralia. It was chipped off at Marulan, where
nowadays the clattering milk cans meet the
morning train.
An exhibit from the Technical College
Museum which chains the imagination of
persons who eat heartily off mere earthen-
ware, is a facsimile of an American mil-
lionaire’s Cauldon China. It consists ot
one plate, with a rainbow trout in applied
art as the design. This specimen belonged
to a gorgeous dinner service, which helped
the jaded appetite of a dollar king. As each
course passed before his fastidious glance,
the china that served it was painted with
representations of fish, fowl or beef in their
native lairs.
From rainbow trout in applied art to the
plumbing department is only a slep or two.
But women are cold to the misapplied art
of the plumber who does the wash-house taps,
after frantic entreaties, and undoes the kit-
chen floor. So the Trade School tea parties
oi: last week removed their millinery to a
more congenial alcove. The Cullen dame
was in charge of one of those mild dissipa-
tions. On another day Mrs. Felix Booth
was generalissimo of the teapot.
( Enid Sly, daughter of Dr. J. D. Sly, of
Cordon, has taken a favorable view of
a proposition laid before her by Dr.
Boyle. _ The proposition was of the kind
which is supposed to be made in a garden of
roses on a moonlit night in summer, or in a
shaded corner of the lady’s father’s drawing-
room if the season is winter. It involves a
becoming blush, a fervent kiss, a large pur-
chase of clothes, and a parson of some kind
or another. Then all parties concerned pro-
ceed instantly to live happily ever after-
wards. The subject is one about which a
vast amount of poetry has failed to get into
print at different times.
The Rubber-tyre Edwardses (of Mel-
bourne when they’re at home) are motor-
ing around this city on a holiday jaunt.
There has been a good deal of rain to rubber
through, by the way, but it is so good for
the country that the city must go goloshed
in a spirit of resignation. Unfortunately,
the country that wanted it most has got least
of it—“least” tailing off to none at all.
Mr. Edwards and his fair-coiffured lady
propose to splash round in Sydney for
about a fortnight.
In spite of the revival of the flounce, it
is amazing how lean the fashionable figure
still looks. Banting must be the favorite
recreation of our more expensive suburbs,
for feminine Society assiduously aims at
the appearance of a flat deal board. In
its evening undress the board may be a
trifle bony, but the lady who could, with a
squeeze, glide through a keyhole is trium-
phant by day. She is the only person the
modern dress builders recognise in desisn-
ing expensive rags. Woe, woe unto the
comfortably fat.
“The Glad Eye,” at the Palace Theatre,
is a mirthful farce, French and frothy, and
full of laughter and nice frocks. Ethel Dane,
as the fascinating Paris shopgirl who rejoices
in the pet name “Kiki,” is an alluring minx.
With a shadow-like form that looks as if
the girl inside the demure black gown lived
on meringues and morning dew, Kiki fills
the best part of one act with riotous mirth.
The Chateau de Vercottes, where the scenes
are laid, is the usual light-comedy country
house, where the inhabitants chase each other
round chairs and tables, and fall up-stairs
and down-stairs with the ease of trained
acrobats. Lucienne (Alice Hamilton), the
mercenary young matron who is always on
the trail of new clothes, takes her husband's,
eccentricities more calmly than the iveepful
Suzanne. Lucienne has to be calm. When
she dazzles the company in an evening gown
whose corsage is built, so far as one can tell,
of a flower, a half-incli band of fur, and a
wisp of tulle, much agitation would burst
these frail bonds asunder. In that case, the
butler would have to render first aid by fling-
ing a tablecloth over the ruins. When no
tragedy happens, yon realise that nothing but
the calmness of Lucienne could have saved
the situation —and the frock.
Miss Tait, recently matron of the Darwin
Hospital, left Sydney to return to the North-
ern Territory in the Dutch boat Tasman.
After a whirling rush to gather up her
trousseau in this shopping centre she flees
with great joy to the warm, comfortable
North. The wedding takes place the end of
this month. Captain Lewis, formerly of the
13th Hussars, and now of Administrator
Gilruth’s staff, is the lucky man.
The new kind of shiny waterproof stuff,
in lugubrious black millinery, is having a
vogue hereabouts. The only thing to be
said about this hearse-like plumage is its
gloomy resemblance to some kind of marine
weed which had been dragged through a
slimy duck-pond, and then hurriedly dyed
black. Stiff little posies, with hairy faces
oit their futurist blooms, are stuck into the
crevices of the long, lop-eared black bows.
Millinery is a weird thing when you come
to think of it.
Shoes made of material that forms part of
the wearer’s anoarel are not calculated to
raise spasms ol envy in the leather-shod.
There was a bedroom-slipper appearance
about race-week footwear of this kind, and
the feet inside them have to be very small to
be presentable in buff brochg covering.
yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


q B -a«s r o^fO^>^o^rs > <jr»Qr*>'Sy*>‘S> r,> <pf i>< i ro
°A
THIS IS OUR
MARK
TRADE
off' 0
iVAt
?>
RfcO'* 4
W*
■tSlfoOt
t'fiaupv
T.iWOIIS
THE FAMOUS
CONFECTION
n>*°s
Money-makers—Attention!
— 1 . . i'i 11 n - ■ ——
Grand Selling Propositions. ,
Every live, practical-minded personas looking for methods to increase business
and profits. It’s as good as notHiJf 1 to stick to the old lines. You MUST
keep right up .to the moment. Fashions in palate change just as do fashions in
dress. The latest sweetmeat fashion is “CRACKER JACK,” the famous pop
corn confection. It’s made big money for thousands in America, and it s
beginning to make its mark here. It’s a delicious candy, made from Popcorn and
Molasses, mixed with Peanuts. The more you get of it the more you want. ' oil’ll
hnd a ready sale for it the moment it gets known you stock it. ' ‘> L
BORDEN’S MALTED MILK
FOR SODA FOUNTAINS
The Milk that has no equal! Is all the rage in America, and will prove to be the same
here soon. It’s a sure-selling line, that’ll create a big demand. Be the “Early
Bird” in your district. (Jet hold of it first, and you’ll begin to pull money, any-
how. It’s a matter of giving a better-than-usual value for the monev. and you can
do that and increase your profits by selling “BORDEN’S MALTED MILK.”
write for trade quote.
COCA CO L A
‘,l drink that’s on everybody’s lips.” will be the craze this summer. Take
at. atage of the demand and supply it. It’s a sure profit-making line. It acts
likj . tonic, and is a refreshing pick-me-up for summer days.
N ISON’S
ICELESS
INTERIOR
SODA FOUNTAINS
Are the finest investment yon can make to reap the harvest of the Summer
There’s absolutely no risk. If you don’t already know what kind of a
profit you can make selling drinks with an “ICELESS INTERIOR,” it’s time
you found out. Write to us. we will give you information that’ll get you going
right away. Don’t put it off. The right time is NOW! A postcard will bring
you the information you require.
n; Jn’s carbonating co. ltd.,
219 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at TURBOT BUILDINGS, TURBOT STREET, BRISBANE.
HARDY BROTHERS LTD.
VICE-REGAL
h
JEWELLERS
BY APPOINTMENT.
jOFFEE GUPS and SAUCERS
‘IK DOULTOM, COALPORT, ROYAL WORCESTER and CROWN DERBY.
A DAINTY WEDDING GIFT.
ĥ
Silver-plated Stand, with 6 China Coffee Cups and Saucers
and 6 Silver-plated Stands,
£3/18/-
"ully v Catalogue
: : sent Post Free on Application.
Selections of the Newest
Goods Forwarded on Approval.
*3 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY; 118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
LONDON AGENCY: 32 OLD BURLINGTON STREET, W.
ħ
aNmsMfljesws
SERVICE
fM. .
SODGER SANDY S
BAIRR/^
TE
i 6
Bookstall" Series “ f Aus ' rali , an
~. Books.
The “Best Sellers” in Australia.
(Sales total 1,500,000 copies.)
1/- each —ALL ONE PRICE 1/- each
There is the greatest possible variety of reading in the
“Bookstall” Series. For instance, take the few books whose
covers are reproduced here:
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” (by Ralph Stock) is a splendid story of adven-
ture in the South Seas, and contains a charming love story.
‘ ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERV ICE” (by Roy Bridges) gives a true picture of earlv
iasmania, and records the stirring pursuit of “Red Alike Howe,” Australia’s
first bushranger.
“SODGER SANDY’S BAIRN” (by A. Bathgate) tells of the Otago (N.Z.) gold
rush. It bristles with exciting episodes, and contains some excellent humor
“EROS! EROS WINS!” (by F. Agar) is a rattling story of the turf.
“THE CALLING VOICE” (by E. F. Christie) presents a charming story of the
Bush and its fascinations.
“BILL’S IDEES” (by A. G. Stephens) is the philosophy of a larrikin who, in his
later days, became a respectable suburbanite. This unique book is full of genuine
Australian humor.
EIGHTY Australian SHILLING BOOKS
Obtainable at all Booksellers and Bookstalls. Or direct from
the Publishers (post free, 1/1).
(Write for Complete Catalogue.)
ISI.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
470 George Street, Sydney.
EROS!
ROS WIN
H
. by ..
F AGAR % -
bills idees
bY A t, .STEPHENS
A quiet BloHc; with h quiet - •'
v*i[e.<tr)dy qUK t <loq witt» ; *
Uqtiidn arm - Uni t j ni> • iiJf Gj \
k nr/\B
ALLIN G VOICE
Er Christie
h
5
Made in Great Britain.
Look for the Red S sign in all our Shop Windows .
Gewral Management for Australasia—Stephen Court, 77-79 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
City Showrooms—l Queen Victoria Markets, $ 673 George St, Haymarket, Sydney,


MAN’S GIFT
As a gift to a man the Nickel Shaving Mirror
illustrated is certain to prove very acceptable,
' being at once practical and ornamental.
The base is heavy plateglass with bevelled edge ;
the fittings are Shaving Brush, Holder for Safety
Jiazor and Blades, Hot Water and Powder Jars.
Price 42/- each,
Other Designs and Prices,
21/=, 27/6, 37/6 to 57,6.
U’e Pail the-CanHaye.
F AMMES’S, Sydney
Utt, Market and George Streets.
I
Mi Eg
■
4kA
Tube
Threading
is easier and
quicker with
OSTER
Bulldog Die Stocks
Eight unusual features are combined in
every tool. Ask your dealer about them.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
4] CLEVELAND, OHIO, USA.
ĥ
For Sale by
Leading
Dealers In
All Cities.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 30, 1914.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Caulfield Cup celebrations transpired
on Saturday in shiversome weather. Half-
way through the proceedings there was not a
warm nose on the lawn. There was a fairly
big crowd, but on close scrutiny I found it
to be mostly composed of mere People. Only
the faintest tinge of Blue Blood was observ-
able. One explanation of this calamity was
file unanimous defection of the Munro Fergu-
son clan. They were at Ballarat listening
to bagpipe contests!
Governor Stanley—who again had fo leave
his pretty little wife at home ill—was on
hand, and so was Norman Hodges. The
lonely potentate grouped himself in an ex-
treme corner of his blue plush coop, and pro-
ceeded to look as forlorn as a 305.-a-week
bank clerk, who, having backed a winning
outsider out of his moruing’s embezzlings,
discovers that he has had the ticket snatched.
In' sheer motherly good-nature the Richard
Casey dame, resplendent in check taffeta and
osprey and furs, bustled in and saved his
Ex. with racing tips and other rousing ver-
bal material.
The Cup Race itself was a thrill from the
start. Uncle Sam left the barrier a dead
last, and he pranced, full of victory, past
Ihe stand and winning-post in a frantic bl ur
of chestnut and green and scarlet. His Ex.
at this stage dried his tears, figuratively
speaking, and began to take an interest, in
life. lie is strongly suspected of having
backed the winner, but it may be mere
rumor, and, anyhow, we all know that vice-
regalities are too good and wise to gamble.
The Lawn and Stand were mostly navy blue
—the color at this stage of the sea-
son. Also, there was an absolute litter of
capes. They flapped gustily round their
purple-lipped wearers and gave spiteful slaps
in the eye to inoffensive strangers who were
frying to look round them at the racing. Mrs.
llennessy wore a four-decked erection of
shot green and purple, held down with
'possum furs, and a hat forested with black
heron tufts. Mrs. Herbert Power featured
white heron feathers, and Mrs. Cumming wore
fluffy white feathers, pink roses and black
main-work. The Lachlan McKinnon dame
supported quantities of sables, and Hilary
McKinnon loomed large and pleasant in
greeny-grey, and a black hat littered with
white feathers.
Three Baillieux were in the Stewards’
Pe*?v -one all brown satin, feather and
ninon (Mrs. Clive) ; a navy coat and skirt
edition (Mrs. Arthur) ; and a third (Yere)
in black tt'Ppe and blue bows. Irene Browne
was in the creme coat and skirt she wore in
“Man and Superman,” and near her was
Mrs. Stewart Brunton, in olue crepe de
chine. Mrs. Jas. Grice was upholstered in
bright blue feather-toppings and a blue coat
and skirt, and Ivy Clarke peered forth from
a wilderness of musquash and skunk.
Mrs. George Armstrong looked smart and
taking in navy blue fitted with cherry edg-
ings, and a white hat. She was with Miss
Mitchell, who affected black crSpe de chine
hangings. Mrs. Donald McKinnon was in
purple. The Fred Fairbairn lady sported
black, with a yellow punctuation. Jess
Fairbairn wore white cloth.
Henley will be a really important affair
this year, if only because, practically every
other festivity is cancelled. There are to
be ever so many house-boats or art-muslined
rafts, and as ail the takings (barring about
half a button, which is to be reserved
for charity) goes to the Red Cross
money-box, there will be nothing _to
prevent the Best People from attending
except deliberate pro-Germanism. The
Geo. Fairbairns have the use of the Gover-
nor’s boat. They have decided to feed starv-
ing vice-royalty aboard it. The Australian
Club has handed over its 100 ft. craft to the
Foundling Hospital and some sort of Home
in East Melbourne. The good old G.P. will
be enabled, accordingly, to plant its tired
feet on this sacred hulk, and Mrs. O’Hara
and Mrs. Fred Knight will see that they pay
their footing. The Overseas Club will be
imperialistieally in evidence all over the
place beneath many layers of the only three
colors that count these days.
A stupendous thing happened last week,
my dear. The Carthage of masculine jealousy
was destroyed. A sort of male Sadowa tran-
spired. I know you dislike this poetically
figurative style of mine, so I will simply men-
tion, with an affectation of calm which is all
too palpably forced and unreal, that Parlia-
ment has given women the right to be alder-
persons in Victoria ! Alderwomen, female
-mayors—we shall have them both shortly.
Oh! the glory of it 1 Our fearless champion,
E. J. Cotter, clinched the matter in the
House last Thursday; and when the final,
fateful words were spoken on the subject.
.Mrs. (Professor) Osborne, who was sitting
in the Speaker’s gallery, broke into masses
of tearful smiles or smileful tears, while Vida
Goldstein rushed in and emitted a war-whoop
of girlish delight that fairly woke the drowsy
old Chamber up. Now for au agitation in
favor of female archdeacons!
The Cafe Chantant in aid of the Belgian
Relief Fund over-ran the Oriental Hotel last
Thursday, from lunch- till dinner-time, and
would still be going strong if some of the
crowd had had their wilful way. Disaster
was averted by a small but fearless man,
who repelled a series of desperate attempts
4o penetrate the Saloon Bar-Lounge lines
with the dogged valor of a Joffre. In a position
n.n.w. of his left wing were grouped a social
army corps of privileged creatures in snowy
uniforms topped with black hats. The Bel-
gian colors were everywhere. And still this
public-house Horatius held the bridge, and
still the serried hordes of Society hurled them-
selves against him in vain. The uniformed
ones turned out later to be Bandits —of the
charitable variety. They sold programmes at
ss. each, bunches of lily of the valley at
4s. Gd. per spray, and sweets at about £lO an
ounce. Just as the people were beginning
to make inquiries for insolvency forms, with
the object of filing their schedules, the front-
row seats were put up at auction. Mrs.
Sanderson took three at 10s. each, but there
was nothing else doing in this line, so the
lonely defender, above-mentioned, was ordered
to fall back in good order, destroying all
drunks, spies, kleptomaniacs, amateur reci-
ters and other nuisances as he went, and the
crowd immediately rushed the seats in the
green beyond.
Epoch-making scenes followed. Mrs.
Alex. Landale, in black, and Mrs.
Winifred Forbes, hatted in something that
reeked of Paris, were everywhere at once.
Lesley Madden was prominent among the
programme sellers, and so was Dorothy
Merritt, the blooming young daughter of
M.L.C. Merritt, of Kew. This maiden scorned
the white-muslin conventionality, and did her
commendable blackmailing in smoke blue. An
orchestra, which was part professional,
part amateur, broke into the Belgian,
French and British National Anthems,
one after another, just as everyone was
comfortably seated. This enabled everyone
to get up again, and stay up till the melo-
dies ended. The star amateur was Mrs.
Stuart Murray, who draped herself in front
of the grand piano in a dream of lilac silk
panniers, buttoned up at each side with
naughty little French bows and lace, and a
black hat decorated with black ospreys 10
yards long, and pointing N.E. and S.W.
for all they were worth. I have said so much
about this lady's clothes that I have no
room for a detailed criticism of her turn;
but it was great. Irene Browne reached the
piano with a kind of running-jump step,
and committed a prelude with an appalling
name as though she did such things for a
living. A Belgian flag, hand-painted by
artist Fischer and autographed by the G.-G.,
was auctioned by Daisy Jerome. Ellen
Terry bid £5O for it, but she had no chance
against Edward Solomon, who appears to
be determined to save the Empire with his
cheque-book or perish in the adventure. He
got the emblem for £lOO. Programmes signed
“Ronald M.F.” were next disposed of. Then
Ellen Terry snatched the Belgian-colored
ribbon trimmings from her bouquet and put
them up. All the “profession” shrieked bids
at one another for this line, and it was
knocked down to Irene Browne at £l2. The
Belgian Consul was discovered in the crowd
and dragged on to the platform, where in
ruinous English he tried to express his grate-
ful feelings ; and just as everyone was yearn-
ing for tea, Mrs. I. H. Moss, in mole and a
blue-ribboned spring hat, sprang to the front
and spoke impassioned words about Belgium,
the artists, the keeper of the Oriental Pub
and other things till the tired and the
hungry were very tired and very hungry.
Altogether it was a great and festive occa-
sion.
The atmosphere at the final meeting of
the Patriotic Flower Rally at the Town Hall
was distinctly electric. When one devoted
patriot got pn her feet, a sort of horrified
hush settled on all present, for had she not.
accused a rival worker in the cause of being
“no lady,” impelled another to bathe the civic
furniture with her tears, and caused yet
another to swoon from sheer rage and stress
of emotion? However, she got through with-
out an explosion. There was another period
when the rally threatened to develop into a
plain melee or free fight, and Mrs. Ilen-
nessy’s tact and Miss Guthrie’s persistence
were needed to darn the jagged rents in
Charity’s mantle. But all simmered
down in the end, and the £3SO-odd, collected
from the public, was duly allocated. Besides
the money that went to the three Patriotic
Funds, the Girls’ Training Home and the
Talbot Colony for Epileptics each got a
cheque for £37.
In the very flower of his usefulness, vice-
regal sec. Blackstoek lias been stricken down
by the measles. Mrs. Lorna Price Mills is
another victim of the nursery ailment; also
a Oliomely girl, and her pal, Colomba Back.
Just now measles are quite the thing. In
fact, they are It. Mumps, which were the
correct affliction a couple of years ago, have,
for gome reason, become absolutely dowdy
of late.
The A.D.C. famine still rages, and now, tu
make things even more *£h a
Luttrel. of the Federal staff, is down with a
feverish cold. Panic-stricken, moic 01 les..
the G.-G. has cabled for help to the one and
only Lord Richard. But he has but fa nt hope
that the famous social expeit will be
able at a time like this.
Norman Hodges, who is. alLthe Gentleman
Help that the harassed Vic. State Goveinoi
possesses, nearly blew himself oft the map
last week, lie made the mistake of smoking
a cigarette while filling the petrol tank of his
car, or throwing a lighted lamp into the
lubricating apparatus, or something equ. y
casual. You wfl be relieved to leam that
his beauty has not suffered permanently
One cheek might be classed as damaged, but
the rest of him is intact, thank Heaven.
Colonel F. T. Hughes has dropped aiding
the G.-G., and taken command of a Light
Horse Brigade. Lieut.-Col. Gwynn, duet
tor of the Duntroon R. M. College, and
('apt IL L. Waller, R.E.. of the same
dusty spot, are also off to look for trouble.
The G.-G. and Lady Helen stayed for a
couple of days with Admiral Bridges, at
Trewalla, last week. Miss Mamleville aul
I-leli) Luttrell were with them. Nothing
unusual occurred. They just put m4<
hours with an elderly ex-naval man and
then came home again. Still 1 thought 1
might as well mention it.
Amber Reeves, the pretty daughter ot
Maori land’s ex-lligh Commissioner in Lon-
don, has been mentioned in despatches, so
to speak, for a fine book entitled ‘ A Lady
and Her Husband.” This is her second
effort, and it is so crowded with Thought
that the bookbinders had a job to get the
cover on. She is a Maorilander by
but was educated at Kensington High
School, Newnham. and other places where
they drive in learning with a siege gun.
Ruby Ward, daughter of H. S. K. Ward,
who is in the grain trade, was tied irrevoca-
bly (so far as you and I are concerned) to
one Arthur Richards on October 12. The
feat of legerdemain was performed by a cleri-
cal prestidigitatepr, of acknowledged merit,
at the Congregational Church. St. lvilda, and
the lookers-on were afterwards given nourish-
ment at the Grand Hotel. The latter or
honeymoon part of the show is being put on
in Tasmania.
Minnie Graut-Bruee, the writer, who
married a cousin, and so kept her own name,
is off to Europe by the Nestor next week,
ller Major husband has been ordered to re-
turn and hurl himself at the embattled, might
of Germany, and she insists on going to
watch him do it; She only got back here
last May, and feels a bit blue at leaving her
people again, but duty must be done. There
is no doubt, by the way, as to the Major
being constructed of the real old hero stuff.
He faced a tea-party of the Women Writers’
Club, given chiefly in his honor, with the
cool, debonair nerve of a Soult or Ne.v or
whoever it was that Napoleon called “the
bravest of the brave.”
The amiable and good-looking Walter
Withers, who died suddenly last week, was a
pleasing artist, though it would be inaccurate
to style him a Michael Angelo, or anything of
that sort. “Tranquil Winter” and “The
Silent Gums,” two of his best, are hung in
the Melbourne National Gallery, and most
of the other States house some of his works.
He was a trustee of the National Picture
shop at the time of liis death.
The Robert Harpers struck England just
in time for the war, and when last heard of
they were mitigating the horror of the situa-
tion by motoring in Wales. They hope to be
back here before this summer has joined the
great majority. Meantime young William
Harper, he of the niany motor break-ups, is
tearing about the U.S. accompanied by a
good motor and bad health.
Ellen Terry is off to the U.S. towards the
end of this month. After a season of hard
labor in ’Frisco and N’Yark she will return
to her little Kentish farm, or whatever it is.
That is, if the Germans haven’t ruined it.
Now that Antwerp has succumbed, the ruth-
less foe could easily swim over and devastate
her hencoop—provided always the British
navy didn’t interfere.
From my Adelaide correspondent-
The weather for the Morphettville races was awful,
and the track arose at short intervals and distri-
buted itself over the wilting farms in the neighbor-
hood. Otherwise the meeting was a success—that is,
when a fair discount is allowed for the drought and
the war. The dressing w T as slightly mixed. There
were winter coats and skirts and furs, and there
were thin, wispy garments of muslin and such-like,
the latter in some eases very low of neck and skimpy
of skirt. The women who scored were those who
happened on a judicious something that suggested
spring and defied wjnter—notably an attractive black
taffeta worn by Lady Galway, a smartly-tailored
white cloth coat and skirt which bedecked Mrs. A.
M. Cudmore, and Mrs. T. E. Barr Smith’s blue crepe
de chine.
The opening of the Adelaide Rowing' Club occurred
on Saturday. Sounds of revelry were heard on the
Torrens, which, by the way, is turning an art shade
of greenish yellow, and they were traced to boat-
races, a string band and afternoon tea. Nothing
thrilling transpired—lt never does these drab times.
Father Le Maitre and the necessities of the Belgian
Belief Fund packed the Town Hall on Tuesday even-
ing. The lecturer is a rotund, rubicund person with
' nice sense of humor and an amazing grip of the
vagaries of the English language. His accent especi-
ally when he warms to his subject, is un-English ana
broken and so it came as an added surprise to heai
from him a choice of words and a rounding of
phrases which would have done credit to Deakin him-
self He gives the impression of an abiding good
nature but for all that he dealt it out to W flhelm
of * Genua nv with no niggard tongue. The Governor
Is in the chair, and the votes of thanks were
attended to by Belgian-Consul W. 11. Phillips, Japan-
ese-Consul Herbert Parsons, Coadjutor-Archbishop
Spence and Register editor M. J. Sowden. The
SSL was mostly R.C., and gave the show the
atmosphere of a McCormick concert.
The latest idea is Patriotic Bridge. Jhe procediue
varies. Sometimes stray shillings are gathered in by
a collection; sometimes there is a levy on the stakes.
I can clearly see Patriotic Poker and Imperial C ub
nights coming for the men, as a measure of retal.a-
tion. It will be a great excuse for the dissolute male
who blunders home at about 4 gun. to be able, to
point out that he has been assisting to down Ger-
many, and that anyone who dares to chide him is an
enemy of the Empire. .
From Pinaroo, which is in the mallee scrub in the
direction of the Victorian border, comes news of two
aeroplanes that were seen cruising over Murray ville.
Also doubtless, from Oodnadatta and llergott and
Tarcoola and Charlotte Waters. The capacity some
folks have for detecting aeroplanes in war-time is
astonishing.
“Billv Khaki,” words by Edward Dyson,
music by Miss Dorothy Boyes, is an Allan
nublication that gives Australian singers of
soldier songs just about all they ask for—
rousing verse that tramps on its own teet
and good, simple, lilting music. It has
caught the ear of the Billy Khaki boys,
and they should have the eight verses and
chorus bv heart long before Kaiser W illiam
gets cold feet. But they’ll have to hurry up.
Pen. Boyd is showing 80 landscapes in
the Athenaeum picture shelter, and intends
to go on doing it till Saturday, Oct. -4.
The work is of a high order, and the prices
are printed in plain figures in the catalogue.
Ilis “liiver Study,” a large, tuneful oil,
is marked £2OO, and a couple of
Warrandyte views bear the legend,
£l5O. There is a fine strain of op-
timism about the man who is capable of
mentioning such figures at such a time as
this. He ought to take a job as an hon-
orary Cossack and ride on the road to
Berlin. His Titian-headed wife moves
alluringly among the pictures in a series of
smart French hats, and the perpetrator ot
the works is nearly always on hand himself.
The ladies of the Overseas Club have at
length found suitable rooms. They are on
the second floor of a building, which, for all
that it is in the naughty old Block, is as
respectable as an archbishop’s umbrella. One
of the rooms is done in art sage green, with
oak accompaniments, and is fitted up with
band-painted screens (pastels by artist May
George), and a secretary. It is one of the
most ideal spots for nose-powdering purposes
that I have seen for many a long day.
Mrs. I. 11. Moss has deliberately ceased
to be vice-president of the Tie. Wimmin’s
League,. and, as an expression of regret, or,
mayhap, because they temporarily mistook
her, iu their agony, for a departing trooper,
her colleagues gave her a diamond-studded
wristlet watch and wept bitterly upon her
shoulder. All this at the Club rooms last
week. She has been a vice-president for
five years, and has been a positive Terror
to Socialism during all that period.
The new civil appointments in Samoa
have been filled by M.L. expeditionaries.
The Commissioner of Customs is a strap-
ping young sergeant, the District Judge is
a corporal, and the Collector of Customs
and the Governor of the Gaol are both de-
serving privates. There weren’t enough
captains and lieutenants to go round, and
that Avas where the rank and file came in.
Miss Lenore Eddington has become en-
gaged to Surgeon Barr, of the Melbourne.
He was a Bananalander until his father
came over to Victoria and became a natural-
ised Toorakian.
The Army Nurses have been chosen. There
are four of them. Think of it, girls, with a
man-drought raging, and the prospect ot
worse to come —-think, I beg of you, of being
one of four females aboard a troopship
containing hundreds of delicious soldiers, and
no Mrs. Grundy! That is, if thinking on
such subjects doesn’t render you liable to
explode from envy. 'J'he only black-beetle in
the consomm4 is the uniform. _ It has been
designed apparently to matrimonially pro-
tect the Empire’s defenders. A grey dress,
with a little red cape, leads up to a dreadful
cap or bonnet, which perches upon the
brow like a Dimple on a grandstand. Kits
are limited to regulation size, so the poor
things can’t take race hats to counteract the
effect of the working togs. Those who want
to bring an extra pair of stockings must leave
out a toothbrush, and so on. Grand-pianos
are absolutely barred.
Yours, till Johanna’s return,
ANNE SMITH.


DEWAR’S
THE THREE GREAT TESTS
OF GOOD WHISKY ARE
QUALITY-TASTE-AGE
Quality is the Essence of Goodness and Fine
Blending. It conveys that indefinable distinc-
tion, which makes a man a prince among his
fellows, and Dewar’s a king among Whiskies.
Excellence in Distillation is a Science; Pre-
eminence in Blending an Art. Dewar’s is a
Mingling of Choice Spirits. Quality stands for
Character, and Dewar’s for the ideal com-
bination of both.
Taste. The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden
Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues
of the memory. In Dewar’s Whisky there is
something creamy and yet not cloying;
something velvety and yet not heating;
something rich and yet not obtrusive; some-
thing crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet
gentle, Dewar’s is the Paladin of Whiskies.
Age
is the Crowning Stage in a series of fer-
mentations. Fermentation means Life. Age
dissipates its roughness, rounds off its edges,
and refines its character, leaving nothing
behind but the Rarest Elixir of Life. Dewar’s
is the Veteran of Stimulants.. It is ripe for
Promotion to your Palate.


THIN AND PUNY CHILD
PASSED THREE LARGE STOMACH
WORMS AFTER TWO DOSES OF
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS. HEALTH AND STRENGTH
NOW GREATLY IMPROVED.
The following voluntary statement re-
ceived from Mrs. Peter McGrath, 78 Hor-
dern Street, Newtown, Sydney, N.S.W.,
describing the anxiety which her little girl
caused her, and the rapid improvement in
health after three stomach worms were
expelled by Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets, should be valuable information for
parents whose children are suffering in a
similar way. One of the worms referred to
has been preserved, and may be seen at the
office of this Company.
“Since 12 months of age my child was
thin and puny, and backward in walking,
and I was unable to discover the cause of
her suffering,” states Mrs. McGrath, “but
attributed it to teething, and I was very
worried regarding her health, fearing that
I would lose her. Thinking that she might
possibly have worms, at different times dur-
ing this period I tried various remedies,
but without any result. About three weeks
ago. acting on the advice of a neighbor, I
decided to try Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets, so obtained a packet at the
chemist’s. After the first dose she passed
a stomach worm 13 inches long, and
after the second dose, a few days later, she
passed two more stomach worms, one
18 and the other eight inches long.
Although the time that has elapsed since
then is very short my little girl has picked
up wonderfully and gained weight. The
child is now two years of age, and it is
only since passing the worms that she has
been? able to walk properly. I am only too
pleased to allow you to ,publish this state-
ment, and would confirm same to anyone
calling on me.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers. price 2s. 9d. per packet; or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co.. Ltd., 28 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney.*
Hotel,
DANIELL
BRISBANE
ħ
A Triumph—-whether cycle or motor cycle—yields the full enjoyment of the open road;
No other machine is made with more —or equal —care to ensure the pleasure and comfort
of the rider. ;
Convincing evidence of this is the ever growing band of Triumph riders numbering many*
many thousands of satisfied users on the road to-day.
The Triumph 4 h p. is equally suitable used solo or with sidecar.
Catalogue and Triumph "Hints and
Tips ” Booklet, post free.
u
5®
VICTORIA-: -MHIed#e Bros., 264, Post Office Place,
Melbourne. N.S. WALES: Bennett & Barkell Ltd.,130-132.
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. S. AUSTRALIA : J. Hill and
Sons, Representatives, 63, Grenfell St., Adelaide ;
Eyes & Crowle, Local Distributors, 125, Pirie St.,
Adelaide. W. AUSTRALIA: The Armstrong
Cycle & Motor Agency, Hay Street, Perth
QUEENSLAND: The Howard Motor & Cycle
Co., Ltd., 376-8. Queen Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: J. Bilyard, The Havelock Cycle
and Motor Works, 141, Elizabeth Street, Hobatt.
10
POLITICAL
POINTS
Pity Holland, between the Devil and the
deep sea fleet! If the Dutchman permits
Germany to use Antwerp as a naval base,
or as a port through which it may stock
up, the Allies will fall upon him —and then
what will become of the apple of his eye,
lii.s East Indian treasures, from Sumatra
through Java and Celebes to Papua?
And if he refuses right-of-way to the gentle
German, there is the case of Belgium to
remind him of what the gentle German may
do to his home, which is the apple of his
oilier eye.
WAR FINANCE.
N.S.W. TREASURE HOLMAN: “’ S’oright!
They wont explode. I’ll get ’nother
bottle, pour it over ’em, put ’em out."
Last Tuesday a meeting of 219 N.S.W.
civil servants gathered in Sydney, and
decided by a majority of three —lll to 108
—that the service should life registered as a
Trades Union. The registration is a com-
mendable idea, but there are over 14,000
civil servants in the State, and the assump-
tion thfit nobody need have a voice in the
matter unless he lives in Sydney and is
aide to attend a meeting held in Sydney is
calculated to make many of them feel angry.
Some of them think there is too much Syd-
ney.
Twenty years ago Maoriland had two fac-
tories turning out glassware. One was in
Auckland and the other close to Christ-
church. The quality of the goods was un-
questioned. and the supply of raw material
more unquestioned still. But cheap foreign
labor, added to low freights by subsidised
German steamers, and supplemented by a
rotten tariff, killed the local article, and
for some years Maoriland has been dragging
its glass half-way round the world. Now
that importing has suddenly become difficult
there is a howl for the revival of the in-
dustry; but. although the sand is still there,
no one is likely to touch it unless the tariff
is wrestled with first of all. And there
doesn’t seem much chance of that while
Farmer Massey, the friend of the Big Im-
porter. is at the helm.
BILL’S TRUST IN HIS ALLY.
The Kaiser is well defended by troops, aeroplanes,
etc., and his armored train is decorated with the
Red Cross. — Cable.
BERLIN B ILL: “Is our Royal and Imperial
person well guarded?”
THE L ACKEY: “Brave and Imperial master,
your person is defended by all the effective
means at our disposal, and you are also
under the protection of the Red Cross, at
which the enemy do not fire.”
BILL: “It is good. Commend our brave per-
son to the care of God.”
Where are all the unbusinesslike acts of
the Fisher Government of 1912-13, as dis-
covered by J. Cook and W. Kelly during
their time of brief authority? The earlier
Fisher Government decided on a. floating dock
at Cockburn Sound (W.A.), having well sat-
isfied itself that a graving-dock was impracti-
cable. When Cook came to power, in 1913,
the floating dock work was scoffed at and
'stopped, principally because the reptile con-
temporary had started it, and expert Maurice
Fitzmauri.ee was asked to return to Aus-
tralia and report. lie didn’t return, but
cabled that the “difficulties attending grav-
ing dock are prohibitive; I therefore recom-
mend floating dock.” So Pearce’s Depart-
ment resumes the work which the Nasty
Little Men interrupted.
The papers are still discussing the Ger-
man capture of Antwerp and asking why
the Kaiser was such a fool as to waste so
much effort on it. Napoleon said: “Ant-
werp is a pistol directed at England’s heart.”
Germany, no doubt, expects to win—and
that’s when it expects to reap the benefit of
the capture of Antwerp. “The punishment
of England will be to see a German naval
base at Antwerp,” a German wrote nearly
three months ago. Certainly there’s Holland
in the way. But Belgium was in the way
too.
“Uloola” is scornful: —
Where is the sense in The Bulletin going on
with its absurd untruths about the aridity ot Can-
berra? We on the spot know differently. The water
from the Murrumbidgee, Cotter, Queanbeyan,
Molonglo, Yass and Goodradigbee rivers passes
through the Burrinjuck Dam. There are four lines
of pipes through the wall, each provided with a
valve which can be closed altogether, or opened from
jin. to 4ft. In addition, there are two sluices each
10ft. high by 6ft. wide, fitted with ,iron doors, which
also can be adjusted to whatever opening is re-
quired. At the present moment all four valves are
open lin. ; one sluice is closed ; and the other is
open 14in. The water in the dam is stationary, so
the combined flow of the six rivers above-mentioned
is actually percolating through these pinholes. 1
will admit that the winter rains have had something
to do with this splendid performance. Last summer
two pipes, each open Sin., failed to drain the reser-
voir of all the water that the six rivers were pouring
in. The Bulletin may argue that the Snowy River
would have had Burrinjuck full to overflowing long
ago. No doubt. My point is that even from the
mighty rivers that flow through Canberra, aided by
others, we can get a certain amount of water into
the dam. And, after all, you can’t expect every-
thing from a capital site. Look how much nearer
Canberra is to Sydney than Dalgety is.
The Melbourne Harbor Trust is building,
by contract, a pier at Port Melbourne. n
the pier there is to be a steel shed,
course the Trust didn’t dream ot getti. »
the shed made here. Nor yet in Lritani-
It arranged that the needed materials—tnc
columns, beams, joists, etc. should a
according to the German-Aniencan stan-
dards. and in those circumstances a German
firm naturally got the contract. At presen
the Trust’s chairman is busy explaining
matters, with poor success; but what the
public--would like to know is—who is the
individual so obsessed with the idea ot Gei-
•nan superiority that he' imposes its stan-
dards on public bodies in distant British
dominions? Whoever lie is, he is wasted in
his present position : he should be assisting
Yon Kluck or advising the Kaiser.
There are signs that the
U.S. mean to start a sort <)f
commercial Armageddon. The
Trusts consider that the time
is ripe to make a complete cap-
ture of the foreign trade of
.South America, S'Africa, Asia.
Australasia and the Dutch East
Indies. and to do it so
thoroughly that, when the war
is over, it shall not be lost. A
U.S. trade paper, the Philadel-
phia Commercial Museum,
puts United States exports to
Australia for 193.2 down at
$45,900,900; to Maoriland,
$10.000,000: and Dutch East
Indies, $2,200,000, and points
out that Australia imported
about eight times that value
from countries which are now
at war. And it sees no reason
why the United States should
not secure all their business.
Australia, on the other hand,
sees no reason why it shouldn’t start to
manufacture a lot of this merchandise itself;
and the clamor for an effective tariff grows in
volume accordingly.
The days are passed when the king on
this side of the creek threw a stone hammer
at the queen on the other side and there was
war within half an hour. From the day
Austria sent the first demand to Servia till
war was declared between Germany and
England, the official correspondence totalled
1(50 portentous letters and telegrams, reckon-
ing only the correspondence in which
Britain had a hand. Sir Edward Grey, the
Foreign Minister, sent 02, nearly every one
of them a part of a brief but desperate
struggle to push the inevitable war a little
further into the distance.
THE ROW IN THE GRAVEYARD.
If we are to have a Protective tariff in Australia
as portion of our settled policy, and this seems cer-
tain, then we might as well have a tariff that does
something worth while.— Sydney Morning Herald.
So far as the fiscal issue is concerned, this journal
remains impenitently Freetrade .—Sydney TELEGRAPH.
GRANNY H ERAID: “Oh, come on. I't; no
good sittin' 'ere ’owling. ’E’s dead.
Come and do some work."
GRANNY T ELEGRAPH: “Go on. Yon can
take ’is tombstone to 'elp build your tariff
wall, but you’ll never convince me ’e's
quite dead."
THE MINE.
Our United States brother is something
of a weariness. It was cabled one day last
week that President Wilson didn’t think his
Uncle Sam country should supply a little
food gratis to the people of Brussels —mot to
the combatants, for there were no com-
batants left in Brussels; but to the im-
poverished civilians —without the consent of
the German authorities, because the grand
old Belgian capital had become German terri-
tory. A man with an exaggerated, conscience
might take Wilson’s view honestly. enough,
lmt the view ought at least to be consistent.
The United States are now raving over
schemes to annex German trade. They want
to supply goods to all sorts of combatants
for cash, without asking any permission from
German authorities. Even in the Australian
papers one sees the advertisement of the
neutral Yankee urging this country to buy
his output instead of that of the. German.
When it is a matter of trading off Tor dollars
the Standard Oil Trust’s grease, or the In-
ternational harvester, or the Huckleberry
piano, or the pig that is killea atiChicago
to one of the Allies, there seems'rto be no
difficulty whatever. But diplomatic compli-
cations stand in the way of giving” a crust
to the Allies’ widow.
Britain has started a belated:-, effort to
“capture German trade.” Even: tie Free-
traders are realising that many of the millions
which their country paid
annually for German goods
went in wages of Krupp gun-
builders. Yet, though Britain
wants to collar the Fatherland's
trade now, there is no hint of
any intention to protect its
manufacturers from- German
competition- after the war is
over. Collaring the” enemy’s
trade, and putting no tariff wall
round it. is like capturing an
eagle and turning it loose in
the backyard, with definite in-
structions that it isn’t to go
past the ash-barrel by the gate.
There will be some sharp
howls of pain if ever the amend-
ing Local Government Bill
reaches the N. S. Wales Leg.
Council —assuming that it goes
through the Assembly in some-
thing like its drafted . form. It
says that women may be local
councillors, and that the muni-
cipal franchise shall be on a
one-adult-one-vote basis, .with
the addition that absentee prop-
puty may also have : a vote.
Under it authority. will be
vested in shires or municipali-
ties to supply gas or electricity,
conduct the undertakery busi-
ness, run light railways and
tramways, erect buildings for
sale or letting, register dogs,
establish milk depQts and
restaurants, manufacture and
supply bricks and tiles, hawk
fuel, meat, dairy produce, forage, cooked
provisions, clothing, building materials,
bread, cakes and biscuits; control public
amusements and games and lodging-houses.
■ and go, in fact, the whole socialistic tiger-
hog. ;
Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures post-
pones its 1915 exhibition till better times.
1> holds one every three years, and claims
to have introduced the idea, now so popular,
of showing what can be locally made, and
appealing to the puh'ic not to jfeed the
foreigner. For its next show it had-Planned
to work not on State but on Commonwealth
lines, and to include all Australian-made
goods ; but war and drought together" make
the prospect too uninviting to face.-
THE CYCLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some fifty years ago the Prussian rent
A tiny land, a gallant land, in twain,
And Britain’s ear was stopped when skyward went
The wronged one's call in vain.
Aye, though we stood full pledged to the hilt,
We raised no sword, wo lent no helping hand ;
And Fate, forgetful ne’er of blood and guilt,
Comes now in Gallic land, •
And pits us, staunch of heart and stern of face,
Against the Teuton warriors stark and grim,
And bids us wipe away that story base,
And spare not life nor limb,
Driving us onward with her deadly scourge
To meet the foe on bloody Hill and plain,
Until in expiation full we purge
Our sin against the Dane.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


The . . .
Best British-Made
h
- '' '
:
I
Sole Ag'eots
IN buying a Piano from Paling’s you secure to yourself and your
family the best possible piano investment for the money expended,
lou will own an instrument of the highest possible musical
qualities; a piano that will in future years—with reasonable care—
prove to be an asset, and one that can be realised upon should the
occasion arise. Place your confidence in PALING’S. A new Piano
irom 1 ALIIVG’S is absolutely reliable and sound in every respect.
Our 61 years’ continuous experience is your safeguard.
England’s Foremost Piano —•
me SAMES
BLI OLE buying a piano you should certainly see our Britisli-
built SAMES PIANO. It is most artistic in appearance and
finish, and will surprise and delight you with its magnificent
tone quality.
H “It is indeed a beautiful instrument, so rich in tone, it
improves every day.” This opinion is expressed quite freely by our
customers when speaking of our British-made SAMES PIANO. The
SAMES charms and delights them, SO IT WILL YOU.
If Let us send you our free Catalogue—it contains full particulars
and illustrations of the various SAMES Models. Write for one to-day.
1[ We are also Sole Agents for Ronisch, Lifip and Victor Player
Pianos, at prices ranging from £l4O. Catalogues free. Easy Time
Payments.
PALING'S,
SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Lismore and Toowoomba.
Electric Power
We can suit your requirements
in all
Power Generating and
Transmitting Machinery.
Prime Movers, Control Gear,
Distribution Apparatus,
Dynamos, Motors, Couplings,
Machine-cut Gears, etc.
COMPLETE PLANTS
INSTALLED.
High -Efficiency
Gearing.
Difficult speed problems in Power
Transmission can often be solved
by the interposition of properly
SELECTED GEARS.
WE CAN QUOTE on such
propositions with SCIENTIFI-
CALLY DESIGNED and
Soundly Constructed
Double Helical Gears.
Single and Double Reduction
Worm Gearing.
Send us your inquiries.
ĥ
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PROPRIETARY LTD., 499-501 Bourke St,
Melbourne
Selling Agents-CHAS. E. BERN AYS, 45 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
STEitLE (Q. BAKER, Adelaide; J. W. R. GARDAM, PertH.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Just one taste of B.L. will prove its high quality.
BULLOCH LADE ("BL”)
Is Good Whisky, and is Good for You.
Is Obtainable Everywhere, but Equalled Nowhere.
ALWAYS SEE S.V.O. WHITE LABEL.
Stay at “ Scott's!«
“Scott’s” has been entirely rebuilt anti
reconstructed, and is now one of the
largest and most sumptuous hotels in
Australia.
FOR “GUP” SEASON
there’s no place so convenient as
“Scott’s,” and to book NOW is best,
so to be sure of accommodation.
Single rooms, double rooms or private
Buites.
Private Attendance ’Phones in all
rooms, and Hot and Cold Water Ser-
vice in Bedrooms.
ROOF AND HALL SMOKING
LOUNGES.
Excellent Cuisine. Music by Hotel
Orchestra. .
Scott’s Hotel,
Collins St., Melbourne.
’Phone Central 9012-7.
Write
To=day.
ħ
,Do You Long for a Full Moustache?
Well, why spend your
time in wishing,
when you can de-
velop a splendid
moustache by using
CAPILLARINE ?
This splendid preparation never fails to give good results.
Don’t despair if your hail' is weak and thin. Capillarine will give jou a
strong, vigorous growth in doufcle-quiek time.
GET A JAR TO-DAY—IO/6 JAR, post free.
The C. & A. Moustache Trainer, worn at night, shapes the moustache.
2/6. 3/6, 5/6 each Post Free. Send for Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG (SL AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
When St. Carwyne won the Spring Stakes
on the first day of the recent ltandwick meeting, and
at once jumped to the position of “moral” for the-
Metropolitan. a lot of people suddenly remembered
the ease of Positano 17 years ago. “PoSi” won the
same race unexpectedly, and his ■ Met. chance was
a lovely thing—on paper. Cautious old sports who
didn’t risk a wager once in six months came crawling
out of their shells to put their fivers and tenners on
him for the Metropolitan., lie let them Sn. Jle hail
an erratic temper, and was already more rpf a stallion
than a racer in disposition : and lie rawer repeated
his brilliant performance in the Spring Stakes. The
4-year-old St. Carwyne did go near to proving him-
self the good thing he appeared to be ; and had the
chestnut with the white markings actually won the
Metrop., a number of old sports would have kicked
themselves for remembering tlie Positano ease.
* * . * *
The punters were not the only people who
thought Royal Laddie a cert, for the Epsom Handi-
cap. Trainer McGrath reckoned the Ayr Laddie horse
the best thing he had ever sent to the post; and
McLaughlin, who had the mount on Malt Mark, told
his friends that McGrath's favorite couldn’t be beaten.
Probably a lot lpore money is going to be lost over
Royal Laddie. fie carried a sack of quids in the
Toorak Handicap, a week after the Epsom, and
finished fifth. HB is one of the born deceivers, judged
by his record up"to date.
* » * *
Remarked that Victorian horses, as a
rule, get less benefit from a trip to Sydney in the
spring than Sydney gees get from a change to the
Melbourne air. Adelaide, in the early winter, is the
best health resort, for Victorians. Still a week’s
galloping at Randwick seems to improve some of
them. For instance, Rathlea, who disappointed his
friends in the Epsom and Metrop., scored a quite
brilliant win for the Toorak Handicap after being
sent back to Melbourne in disgrace.
* * * *
lownit (from S.A.). winner of the New-
market, had been in training at Melbourne for many
weeks with a Caulfield Cup victory in view ; but this
time the perky little gee didn’t thrive during his
preparation. He ran badly once or twice before he
was backed for the Toorak Handicap, although, to
the writer's eves, he looked very different from the
lownit who did the big trick last autumn.- Again
he ran badly ; also, he got a nasty bump or two, and
when the Caulfield Cup acceptances appeared there
was no lownit on the list, liis hopeful backers had
dropped their coin, into the grave which lkey digs
for early fancies. Handicapped at 7st. 131 b., the
same weight he carried in the Newmarket, the South
Australian seemed to have a second-to-none chance
for the C.C. if he could stay 12 furlough. But could
he stay? The question is held over.
* * * *
What are the odds against the Melbourne
Cup going to an imported horse, for the second time
in its history? Comedy King, imported as a foal,
won the Cup four years ago. Voyou and Hallowmas
were runners-up who came from England ; but with
these three exceptions foreigners have failed in the
famous two-miles race. Even Almissa, who subse-
quently won the Australian” Cup from Oadohia and
Piastre, could get no nearer than fifth. This year the
chances of St. Spasa and Grey Spear, both from
England, are particularly bright. St. Spasa seemed
to be tiring ere he got home for the Metropolitan,
but the extra month may count in his favor, and it
has to be noted that lie ran his best race as a two-
years-old over seven furlongs and a mile. Grey Spear
whipped in tlie field for the Met. what time his com-
patriot St. Spasa was passing the judge’s box. They
were the Alpha and Omega of the race,. and Grey
Spear will meet the winner on only 21b. better terms
at Flemington. But meanwhile 11. R. Denison’s horse
has proved his liking for a distance by capturing the
Waverlev Handicap (14 furlongs) in handsome style.
The Melbourne Cup is Mr. Denison’s particular objec-
tive, and all going well with Carbine's grandson, lie
should carry his Bst. 31b. near to the front.
Seeing that Uncle Sam won the Caulfield
Cup in open defiance of this paper’s suggestions, a
few words of apology are called for. Briefly then,
the writer, who tipped Uncle Samuel for the Toorak
Handicap and Caulfield Cup, which he won two
years ago, and for the Melbourne Cup, in which he
ran third to Piastre and Hallowmas, had become pre-
judiced against the big chestnut horse for reasons too
indelicate to mention. The evidence of his own eyes
when he watched Uncle Sam in the saddling paddock,
not once or twice, but several times, convinced him
(hat ihe nervous racer, in spite of his long, free stride
and natural pluck, would never again win a great
race over a longer distance than (say) 10 furlongs.
The prejudice held good last season when Uncle Sam
scored a victory in his first race (nine furlongs) and
five subsequent defeats over longer distances. This
season, as a six-year-old, he started not so well as
before, and though he didn’t look quite so nervous he
certainly appeared no stronger. A burst of hot
weather would probably have put him back into his
evil courses; but the week or two before Caulfield
Cup happened to be exceptionally cold, and so Uncle
Sam came to the scratch in a cool and composed con-
dition. Carrying 151 b. more than he won with in
THE PUZZLER PUZZLER.
Kay is unable to understand where Griffiths'
left comes from. (Sydney Stadium.)
1912 he ran almost as brilliantly. To a horse of his
size tlie extra weight would make little or no differ-
ence. Still, it is a fact that, however good the stal-
wart son of United States may have been last Satur-
day, lie wasn't the mighty champion he might 'have
been. Ilis chance in the Melbourne Cup race, for
which a 101 b. penalty would not stop him, depends
mainly on the weather.
* * * *
Twenty horses started for Caulfield Cup,
the 21st acceptor, Sylvanmore, being scratched (as
ihe result of the knocking about he got whilst pushing
his way to win (lie Coongy Handicap on the previous
Wednesday). Anna Carlovna (3 to 1), St. Carwyne
(7 to 2), and Uncle Sam (9 to 2) were the sinfplly
short-priced favorites. The betting otherwise was
“10 to 1 bar three,” and “20 to 1 bar six.” Aurifer,
obviously above himself in condition, assisted Garlin,
First Principle, Mintstone, Anna Carlovna and St.
Carwyne to make most of the running for a some-
what bunched field. It was not a very strung-out
field, and Uncle Sam, at the extreme tail end, never
looked hopelessly out of it. A quarter of a mile from
home St. Carwyne was leading from Anna Carlovna,
Garlin and Uncle Sam, with Rathlea coming after.
It looked as though the mare could dart ahead when-
ever she wanted to ; but in a moment she was beaten.
Tier foreleg, which looked dicky before tlie race,
practically broke down, and she finished nowhere —-
lame. Garlin also dropped out, and, whilst Uncle
Sam continued to stride along, St. Carwyne must have
tired or “chucked it up.” Anyhow, Rathlea was the
only one that challenged Uncle at the finish, and even
then the ex-sprinter finished more than two
lengths from tlie winner. St. Carwyne was
a length and a half farther back. Rathlea
will meet Uncle Sam on 111 b. better terms in the
Melbourne Cup, and had he not been penalised 71b.
for winning the Toorak Handicap he would look
very dangerous for the Melbourne Cup. For two
years Rathlea has been treated as a miler, whereas
he was probably a two-miler in disguise.
# * # *
No previous winner of the Caulfield Cup
got quite so big a reception as Uncle Sam. It was
the money that talked for the most. part, for U.S. was
the adored of the small punters. But behind the cash
consideration there was the sudden feeling that jockey
Ettershank had been wrongly accused of not knowing
how to ride the horse.
* * * •
The success of jockey ,T. Ettershank in the
Caulfield Cup lifts him to the diamond ridge hitherto
occupied only by IV. 11. McLachlan, Mick O’Brien
and Tom Clayton—the latter two now dead. They
four are the only riders who have twice won tlie
gilded utensil since it was inaugurated 34 weary,
dreary years ago. R. Lewis, a good, careful rider,
has had 15 mounts and lias yet to ride a winner. The
hick of the game!
* * * *
Third in a Melbourne Cup is certainly a
better performance than first in many other handi-
caps. Yet Ulva's Isle, who ran third to Posinatus
and Belove in the big two-miler last year, ''asabe
to claim 71b. allowance in a mere Trial Stakes at the
recent Randwiok Spring meeting, and that while ie
topped the market for ihe coming Melbourne Uup.
He won the Trial Stakes, naturally, just as Piastre
did before getting home in the Melbourne Uup. But
the eases are not as similar as some scribes make
out. Piastre, prior to his Trial Stakes, was not a
Melbourne Cup placed horse, nor was he a Cup lator-
ite at any time. Still, Ulva’s Isle may win the Cup
—-favorites have scored occasionally.
* * * *
Consider the waxing of pony racing
around Svdnev. Last week Kensington Spring Uup,
worth £785, drew a world’s record of 84 starters,
and had to be run off in five heats and a final, the
day’s racing slopped over five solid hours, during
which there was hardly time to get a bite or a sup.
The harvest reaped by Brian McShortodds was
tremendous, as instead of six he had sixteen races to
bet on —-and only two favorites won. lalk about tne
green bav tree and Jonah’s gourd! An unpleasan
feature of the day was the smash in the first division
of the Cup, which resulted in the death of top-
weight Yarrum. Jockey Gaynor, assessed as guiltj
of the spill, was disqualified for life. What a day .
And they call it Sport!
There was a curious jostling of names ■ in
the Glenelg (S.A.) Handicap recently, when
Epistle beat Pistol King for first place ,and the
latter was chased for second place by Pistolier. lh e )’
were all sons, of course, of the sire Pistol. The first
two paid £5 11s. and £3 2s. respectively, and the
third one had the consolation of explaining that the
other two had a year more experience and strength
than he.
* * * *
Bill Murray, Vic.’s amateur champion
walker, put up a great performance at the Richmond
racecourse on Saturday, when lie trod a fair 25
miles in 3 hours 58min. lasec. His most formidable
opponent was W. Pitt, an ex-Birmingham walker,
but two others did remarkably well—Drayton and
Dooley. Given a good surface road, such as that on
which Butler, the London policeman, did the distance
in 3 hours 1 Oinin. 20sec., Murray is a dead certainty
to clip lumps off his Saturday figures.
Port Adelaide football club is now happy.
It has done everything that a club could do in the
Australian game. (1) It went through the whole
season unbeaten. (2) It beat the premiers of the
local Amateur League. (3) It beat Carlton, premiers
of Melbourne. (4) It has now beaten, handsomely,
a team from all the other Adelaide clubs put together.
There doesn’t seem to be any other test in sight.
On Saturday afternoon the windows of
Heaven were opened over Sydney, and the flood swept
away all sports. Cricket was off, bowls were post-
poned, cycling stopped, athletics did not start. So,
as far as Sydney was concerned, there was no sport.
But no one complained—the drought had broken;
anyway it had broken where there was no drought
to break, and in a few other places it was slightly
cracked. The one bright exception in the grey
atmosphere was the fight in the Stadium. This raged
at night, as usual; and in spite of horrible
weather, drew over 5000 of an audience. The
sailing races on the Harbor were not bright excep-
tions, lint mighty dreary experiences for those who
followed them.
* * * *
The second round of First-Grade Cricket
was declared an all-round draw. Hard luck for
University, which, under the circumstances, was
almost sure to inflict a drubbing on North Sydney,
with only 52 to get and six wickets in hand. Red-
fern also had a rosy outlook in its struggle with
Western Suburbs, with eight wickets standing and
123 to get. Glebe, with. 217 in hand, had laid out
four Balmain wickets for 14. Central Cumberland
had 316 in hand against Middle Harbor, and would
have taken some beating. The result of the all-round
draw is to leave Central Cumberland and North
Sydney level in the front rank with one win and one
drawn game each. University and Gordon have one
first-innings victory and one draw each. So has
Western Suburbs. There the list of winners ceases.
#** 1 *
The annual meeting of the Australian
Board of Cricket Control was held in Melbourne on
Thursday, under the presidency of Queensland dele-
gate J. Allen, and resulted in the election of 11.
Blinman (S.A.) as chairman for the ensuing year.
The selection is a good one, the appointee being a
sound cricketer and a highly-placed civil servant
with a profound sense of responsibility. A South
Australian edition of Syd Gregory in size anil merit,
lie played for his State in home matches, but was
rarely able to visit Melbourne or Sydney. In his day
he was a mighty fieldsman, with a swift and deadly
return, and a sound batsman who narrowly escaped
brilliancy. Originally associated with the Norwood
Club, the electoral system pushed him into East
Adelaide, and lie took an active part in the develop-
ment of his new club, which included Clem Hill, Joe
Travers and Gehrs.
The Board is disinclined to go on with ai inter-
national campaign during a period of national stress,
and is leaving it to Marylebone Club lo say .vlier,her
an English team should come to Australia . yhe
1915-16 season, and also if Australia should s- • d a
team to South Africa. This paper is of the opinion
the whole international programme should be sus-
pended while the war is on. The money is wanted
for other objects. For the rest, the Board decided
to further communicate with Marylebone on the sub-
ject of giving guarantees for international tours. It
agreed to the Marylebone • proposal that matches
between the English and State Xl’s should be limited
to four and a half days, hut declined to endorse the
idea that test matches should be confined to five and
a half days. Its idea is that they should be played
to a finish. Marylebone had asked that 200 be the
limit for a follow-on in Australia, and the Board
acquiesced, but it declined to agree to the English
proposal that the wicket be not swept and rolled
during a match, holding that the conditions in Aus-
tralia make the attention absolutely necessary. Mary-
lebone should have no difficulty in changing its mind
on this point.
* * * *
Saturday was a horrible day for a regatta ;
nevertheless N.S.W. Rowing Association made a game
effort to open its season with the usual pomp and
frill. But it was foredoomed, and when the Maiden
Eights and Champion Fours had been disposed of the
function fell overboard. Both the races held were
good, and showed that the crews had trained unusually
well. Five started in the Champion Fours, which
was won by Enterprise No. 1 crew, after a great
struggle with the same club’s No. 2 boat, while
Balmain always hovered dangerously near. For a
mile a decent-sized sail would have covered the fleet,
but with half a mile to go the leaders made an error
in steering, and No. 1 Enterprise dashed to the
front, followed by Balmain, after which Leichhardt
splashed into third place. The Maiden Eights was .
a good struggle for three parts of the way. Then
most of the crews went to pieces, and Leichhardt
paddled home an easy winner.
* * * *
Sydney surf-bathers seem to be unusually
unlucky or careless of late. At Manly, in one day
recently, burlv beach life-saver Tom Gunning rescued
no less than 22 surfers from positions in which they
got glimpses of the pearly gates. If that rate is con-
tinued the life-savers will die of exhaustion, and then
the Devil will make a fine haul.
Evidently news of the idiocy of Sydney
surfers has reached the sharks, and the brutes ai e
making an early visit to the beaches. A couple ot
lift, grey nurses were landed at Coogee and Bondi.
Thev were not the only ones around ; but the others
were looking for human shark-bait, and declined the
hook. Unless some official restrictions are placed on
the bait, there are going to be tragedies'shortly.
Brisbane is consumed witli a desire to
make its patriotic carnival, organised by Reg Baker,
bigger and more successful than the one staged in
Svdnev. The Major supplied Mr. Baker with an
office in the Town Hall; the Overland Motors gave
the use of three cars for organisation work; in fact,
everybody is offering all kinds of assistance, and that
the carnival will be a roaring success is now assured.
* * * *
Duke Ivalianamoku, the Hawaiian swim-
ming marvel, is as inconsistent as a girl with tawnj
hair and golden eves, lie lias been threatening to
visit Australasia on and off for months now, and
changing his mind every week. Recently the bust -
ness was definitely fixed up*,, the money arranged for,
and everything in the garden was so lovely that the
various swimming associations were proceeding to
alter their constitutions to allow their members to
race with the brown marvel. Now it i$ all, appar-
ently, off. But this time it is not the Duke’s fault.
The trouble is the money. Bast week Victoria threw
in the sponge owing to shallowness of the purse.
This week Maoriland shows signs of collapse. The
V S W bodv, however, swears, like Britain over the
war, that “it will see the thing through!” If it
does it will find the Duke a millstone where it usually
wears its necktie. t ,
N.S.W. Bowling Association has thrown
out the district scheme and reverted to its sectional
system for the 1911 -’.15 competitions. Altogether
there are 21 metropolitan clubs in the three sections,
and a committee of four —Shadforth, Whitehouso,
Laurence and Hillman —shoulders the unthankful job
of dissecting tlie clubs.
* * * *
Les Darcy’s blacksmitliing indentures
have been cancelled, and he has definitely committed
himself to a pugilistic career. If he continues to
improve in his boxing as he has done of late, and
can acquire a cool control of himself, he has a big
future before him. In fact, he may win to world-
championship honors. But, first, he must find his
head.
Arrived from Vankeeland. by. the Ventura
last Monday Jeff Smith, Pat Bradley and three new
U.S.A. boxers, J. Coffey, Loughrev and “Young Otto."
Boxers in the U.S.A. are having a cold time, and the
Stadium has been inundated with telegraphic offers
to make the Australian trip. To the average Yankee
boxer shivering in the cold wind of the war-depres-
sion, Australia seems just now a land of gold.
* * * * . 4%:
If the roofing of the Melbourne Stadium
can be completed in time, Cup week will see a couple
of interesting scraps to mark the re-opening: .left'
Smith will meet Dave of that ilk, and Hughic
Mohegan and Fred Kay will battle for the light-
weight championship of Australia. Jeff and Dave
Smith should make a very interesting pair, as both
are excellent boxers. The fact that Jeff has beaten
McGoorty, who defeated Dave with such perfect ease,
does not' affect the problem. Paper form is not worth
a tinker’s howl or old boots as regards boxing. Writer
suspects that David lias the heavier punch of the two,
although more than once Jeff has demonstrated that
he can hit. The beauty of the fight between
Kay and Mehegan all depends on what sort of fight
Kay puts up. He will certainly have to either
hit more frequently than he did in his bitterness with
Johnny Griffiths last Saturday night, or gallop for
his lii'e. On the other hand, Mehegan, in his fight
with McOov, demonstrated that he had picked up a
new lease of speed somewhere, and was hitting harder
than ever, and that is saying a good deal, for Hughic
always was a mighty walloper.
* * * *
Australian lightweight boxer Fred Kay
had a strenuous time last week —underwent a slight
local operation on Tuesday, cot married on Friday,
and fought 20 rounds on Saturday. Under more
favorable conditions he would have -walloped U.S.
citizen Johnny Griffiths. In fact, even under the
.adverse conditions of the meeting lie might have done
the trick if lie had hit 15 times as often and hall
as quick again. No man can win a modern fight by
simply -evading punishment—lie must hit the other
fellow more or less frequently. Ivay had Griffiths
completely disconcerted by his unconventional style,
leading with the right and crossing with the left, lie
had a considerable advantage of reach, and could
always outrange Griffiths, and when he did fight, which
was seldom, he sent Johnny staggering. But he was
dog-tired. He bent bis head back out of reach till,
to get to it, Johnny had to walk half-way up his
stomach. Griffiths bored in in bulldog, style, and
occasionally be would get Kay on the ropes, where
the Australian twined his arms three times round his
head and covered his jaws and allowed Johnny to
belabor liis arms and gloves till be backed off in
disgust and helplessness. But Kay would not hit,
or did it so slowly that the. target always escaped.
The only time he scored was when he stood up
and met the American with straight rights.
While lie did that Johnny could not get near him.
Early in the fight Kay decided to go for a knock-out.
and smote with a force no one dreamed he possessed.
But his heavy shooting was always too slow, and at
last the affair, in which Griffiths hunted Kay round
the ring, and could do nothing with him when he
caught him, became wearisome. At the end of the
20 rounds Harald Baker gave the only possible
decision, and Kay remarked that a hot bath struck
him as the sweetest thing on earth. All the same,
this writer, who rarely prophesies, ventures to pre-
dict that next time they meet the young U.S. citizen
is in for a mighty bad time.
FIVE LITTLE SKINNERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out-of 16 races only three favorites won, and two
of these were in deciding heats. So much had many
of the bookmakers won after the fifth race that they
closed up their bags and retired to secluded corners
to count their winnings. —Account of a suburban race
meeting during the ,weel:.
“The others may follow their luck if they choose,”
Said the bookies who fled from the ling ;
“But I’m of opinion il fellow won’t lose
lVho knows liow to hold a good thing.
My comrades may bet on a coming event
To pay for their supper and wine,
But I’m going home with a spirit content,
For five little skinners are mine.
“You never can tell when the times will he bad,
And you'll want a few shillings in siore,
For the squatters and farmers are growling like
mad,
While the Germans continue to score.
The fates have but little in bounty to give
To the ‘book’ on his perilous way,
So the struggle is hard, Init a fellow can live
If they grant him five skinners a day.
“The punter comes down like a wolf on the fold
To rob me of all I possess;
So once I have flayed him his skin I shall hold
With my odds growing prudently less.
If seven to one is the price he requires
I shall scare him with seven to two;
Though at times 1 may fail of my utmost
desires,
Yet five little skinners will do.
“It may be that famine won’t happen to
tweak '•
The tummies of those I support,
If five little skinners occur once a week
And the oddsj are consistently short.
If a three-to-one risk is put out at odijs on
The punter must pay for his chance,
And with five pots boiled over with five races gone,
It is time for a Miriam's dance.”
It was thus that the bookie sang deep in his
throat
As lie packed up his hag for retreat,
But when 1 came near him and murmured “The
Tote,”
He called me a rogue and a cheat.
He convincingly, proved with a paper and pen
That the Tote meant the Devil to pay,
And he swore he was faced with insolvency, when
He’d had five little skinners that, day!
N.S.W.
M.


WHY DON’T YOU LEARN
TO USE YOUR HANDS?
m
\oh fully realise the importance of knowing- how
to defend yourself. Because self-preservation is part
and parcel of every form of life.
lou ought to do something to develop your natural
power. Why not learn to box—learn to use your
hands to the best advantage. Otherwise the time
will surely come when you will bitterly repent your
indecision. Perhaps it may be a matter of life and
death, then—you'll wish in vain.
There's no excuse for you not knowing how to box.
I can teach you in your own home.
I TEACH BOXING
BY POST
I thoroughly explain the most serviceable moves
known to Kingcraft. The best moves of the most
famous living boxers will form part of your instruc-
tion. If you were entangled in a mix-up, what a
advantage you’d have—what confidence you’d
have, and that’s half the battle. Here is a letter
from one pupil:—
“I am getting along splendidly with un-
boxing. I am beginning to feel sure of myself.
Jt is a grand pastime.”
H.E.W., Nimbin, N.S.W.
... ~S e! hOW he s bullc,ing l| P confidence, because he knows how. You ought to learn “how” ton
rite tor my 32-page booklet, “Scientific Boxing In Your Home.” which describes my methods md
S.ves cost ot tuition. It’s worth having. Send three penny stamps for postage. ° ’ d
REG. L.(“Snowy”)BAKER,
358 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Smoke My
Cigarillos
The little cigars of the shil-
ling Havana quality. They
are ideal smokes —just the
thing for a short smoke —
more than a cigar-
ette and less than a
cigar. Mild and de-
lightful in flavor.
In three sizes, but
only one quality.
In Tins of
20:
No. No. No.
I• 2. 3.
2 - 1/9 1/6
In Cedar
Boxes of 50:
No. No. No.
4 9 4/3 3/9
In Cedar
Boxes of
100:
No. No. No.
1. 2. 3.
9/- «/- 7/-
Postage Extra
on 100:
N.S.W. 6d.
Other States Bd.
Write for a
Copy of my
111 us t rated
Catalog—
Post Free
| Actual Size of Cigarillos,
a n. soLonoN,
“ Cigar Expert,”
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
‘SHELL”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
BENZINE.
OXO
eles
CO
hend:
7-h.p. Twin, Free-engine,
3-inch Tyres, £6B.
Hendee Manufacturing Co.
109 Russell Street, Melbourne, VIC.
Send for Catalog D.
HO TELKEEPERS ! HO TELKEEPERS !
ECKERSLEY’S DISPENSER
For the Rapid Production of Pure,
Crystal, Effervescent, Draught Lemon-
ade, Sodawater and every variety of
Aerated Drink.
\-n «™In USOR! NO BOTTLE-WASHING !
ftnTTipi filling. no labelling of
UOIfLES! NO BROKEN BOTTLES!
WORKS AUTOMATICALLY.
By Electric or Water Power.
Bar attendant simply pulls
Power instantly supplies the
a lever and mechanical
required drink.
IV rite for descriptive Catalog to
EC KERS LEY’S,
25a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
or S. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
DOUGLAS, 529-33 Queen
Messrs. ELLIOTT DONALDSON &
Street, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
h
Wool
Hides
Tallow
Sheep Skins
Rabbit Skins
and Other
Produce. ,
S Iv £r S held at frequent
intervals by
Australian Mercantile Land
and Finance Co. Ltd.
4 BLIGH STREET.
SYDNEY.
Correspondence Invited.
EVERYBODY ADMIRES
ĥ
the fine style, the perfect fit and high quality
of ItIGNEY SHOES.
RIGXEY SHOES have a character and in-
dividuality that give distinction to th*
wearer.
The model shown is a Tan Willow Calf
Three-button Shoe, smart American Shape,
Grown (’loth Insertion Tops, “Non-Tread-
Over ’ Brand. Best English Manufacture.
Price - - 32/6
Also in Patent Leather, 32/6 and 35/-
Postage 9d. extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
“The Men’s Exclusive High-grade Shoe Parlors,”
317 George Street and 179 a Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
And at City Buildings, Edward Street, BRISBANE.
/
r*
/ \
<7
o
v
Q
x
■*
r
CD/:
This
is the
Tyre
that has gained
the confidence and
support of Motorists!
They are exceptionally
good and Motorists know it,
hence the great demand f0r....
DUNLOP TYRES
The SeYvice they offer you is extra wear and less trouble. It’s their
fine quality—why not have it ? OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
When the Vic. Protectionists’ Association,
which suspended animation before the death
of David Syme, came to light again
the other night, some misguided maffickers
talked of giving as much as 50 per
cent. preference to British goods—as
if the cheap labor of England were
only half as bad as the cheap labor of any
other country. Barring (say) Carty Salmon
and Theodore Fink, the committee elected
was such a marvellous collection of Ilas-
Beens and Never-Weres that the interesting
question arises: If Mauger and Edgar had
been elected as Fusionist senators, and
b reetrader Cook, being in power, had dropped
the Tariff “owing to the war.” would anv-
thing have been heard of the resurrection of
the Protectionists’ Association?
The whirling merry-go-round of History:
On December 31,. 1663, Mr. Samuel Pepys
wrote in his diary:
. - T , he J ’ urk ? jery far entered into Germany, and all
that part of the world at a loss what to expect from
hie proceedings. Myself, blessed be God! in a
8 °?- C L way ’ an(1 design sticking to my business to get
a little money with, doing the best service I can to
the King also; which God continue! So ends the
old year.
Poor, old-fashioned Pepys! If he were
alive to-day and in Australia, he would be
tiding to raise a, loan, or kicking up a row
because the enemy's ship with the imported
goods aboard hadn’t arrived. When war
strikes a low-tariff country very few of its
inhabitants can make money by sticking
to business. Business mostly falls down
dead and looks untidy.


FCBGCO
TOOTH-PASTE
If our teeth could talk—
they would say something
like this :
“Yes, we are thankful for
our friends—the millions
of Tooth Brushes. They
do s.f idid work as far as
they go.
“ We are grateful for thehund-
dreds of dentrifices. They
in turn do a splendid work
so far as they go. But both
together fall far short of pro-
tecting our enamel —our only
weapon of tooth protection.
“ Is there no escape from these
‘ MOUTH ACIDS ’ — these ever-
present mouth fluids which unseen,
unbidden, are working day and night
to break down our armour plate —and
then make the soft inside tooth stius-
ture easy prey to decay-germs ?
We answer :
'* There IS escape from * Acid Mouth.
Pebeco Tooth Paste is the one dentri-
fice to-day which prevents ‘ Acid
Mouth,’ the direct cause of 95 °/ 0 of
all tooth-decay.”
Send 3d. stamps for sample tube
■and interesting test of Acid
Mouth.
Of all Chemists.
G. ARNOLD, 6 O’Connell Street,
I®
ħ
h
Fm
marking
linen
WOVEN
NtfMES
Your name is neatly woven in fast Turkey
Red on Cambric tape so that your Linen,
Clothing, Handkerchiefs, etc., are per-
manently marked by simply sewing the
name on. Prevents articles being m.slaid
at laundry. Note the cost is small :-U
dozen 7/6 ; 6 dozen 5/-; 3 dozen 3/6.
Obtainable at all drapers and outfitters or
woven samples sent free on application to
J. & J. CASH LTD .
346-50 Flinders Lane, Melb.
T\
Always ask
for CASH S
/So simple
ĥ
Send to-day
2/6
SHARPS
AMIGO
f»r PILES
WHY SUFFER?
GET RELIEF.
"SHARPS AMIGO”
FOR PILES.
\n unfailing remedy
for Itchinfj, Protrud-
ing or Bleeding
PILES.
rr CURES GIVES
EASE AT ONCE.
2/6 a Jar from
J. H. LITHGOW,
Chemist,
136 Charles Street,
LAUNCESTON.
ħ
h
“TOUCHES THE SPOT"
The Pioneer of Skin Complaints
No household should be without it.
Fop ECZEMA, PILES,
SCALDS, BURNS, CUTS,
BRUISES, SORES, and all
Skin Complaints.
50 YEARS AGO
H. M. STANLEY (the great Explorer)
said: —
“ I found ‘ Homocea ’ to be the most sooth-
“ ing and efficacious unguent that I could
“ possibly have had in my travels."
And to-day thousands of Doctors,
Nurses, Fathers, Mothers, Sons
and Daughters say the same.
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
“ As a pharmacist of 50 years’ standing, 1
“ state that I consider your ‘ Homocea' the
“ finest preparation known for the purposes
“ you recommend. No prescription I have
“ hitherto dispensed has been so quick in its
“ action on the complaint for which it was
“ prescribed.
“T. G. Forshaw, m.p.s.
“ For more than 25 years Disposer to the
“ Bradford Infirmary."
For Free Sample enclose Two Penny
Stamps.
LYALL WILLIS & CO..
Sole Wholesale A gents >
127, York Street, Sydney, Australia.
The “Robson” Oil Engines
Alexandra WorKs,
SHIPLEY, ENGLAND,
1
m.
: i
J ' A 1;
«***<./ ‘Vty/M*
POSSESS
IN THE
MAXIMUM
degree
those Characteristics which make
Economical and Reliable Service
certain under Severe Conditions.
Stocks can be inspected in SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE.
Australian Metal Co. Ltd.
40-2 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
172-6 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
Gilbert Place,
ADELAIDE.
ĥ
TN Bostoek shoes the fefet always feel beaiiti-
-1 fully light and comfortable; and the wearer
is ready for a garden party or any smart func-
tion. So perfect are their fitting properties that
the shoes positively feel as though they have been
made specially. Every.time they are worn the
wearer experiences a sense of satisfaction, wondei-
fully- like that enjoyed in a smart Parisian
gOWn; and this feeling is intensified by knowing
that the shoes are exclusive in style and exquis-
itely finished.
linstocks are the cream of imported shoes.
Special shipments have recently arrived at the
leading stores, and ladies should call before the
choicest styles are sold. <
809
m
m
9S
Style 589
For Solid Comfort while Travelling
in all sorts of weather, the ideal
wrap is a
MOSGIEL
RUG
Simply Perfect in Beauty and
Heat-giving Cosiness.
Sold at all the
Best Shops.
[1
the great remedy.
w GOUT v
(a RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The severe pain of Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Neuralgia cau be relieved by
BLAIR'S PILLS, the Medicine that has
stood the test of Time. Purely vegetable.
Sure and Safe. Sold by all Drug Stores
and 229 Strand, London, England, in Boxes
at Is. and 2s. 6d.
\Vh< b sale Agents: Elliott Bros. Ltd..
F. 11. Paulding and Co.. Sydney, and others.
LEIGH’S HAIR DYE.
ħ
Made in England. Perfectly
harmless, indetectable,
and guaranteed free
front Nitrate of
Silver and Lead
Salts.
IN VARIOUS
SHADES—Raven
Black, Black,
Brown, Light or
Golden Brown,
Blonde, Chestnut
and Auburn.
Price 3/6, posted
3/11. Directions with
every bottle.
MADAME LEIGH,
22 & 23 The Block Arcade, Collins St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wk Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard=
wood Piles, Beam-*, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
PINNERS' HALL, LONDON, K.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A. _
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, Vlu
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Branches in all pans of the world. _
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character) tdll be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appeal on MSS.
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J. T. Mackenzie: “The Double-Bed Dia-
logues” are not yet in a book. They have appeared
in B. Dec. 13, 1913, and Feb. 19, March 5, April
9, May 21, September 17, 1914.... Gus Gosh: Dream
it about the German navy, and pray for the old
result A.J.V.: Hardly worth while mentioning.
No doubt, it has been pointed out and rectified by
this time. .. .Resident since 1841: It has been printed
at various times —mostly from Therry s b00k....
Bill O’C. (Adelaide) : Before you set out to correct
the poets, procure a good rhyming dictionary. It
is an astonishing thing how a person who wouldnt
dare to instruct a bootmaker how to mend boots is
ready to lay down the law about “litrachoor. And
vet “litrachoor” is quite as complicated as boots.
” ...Cardenio (V.) : Unsuitable. It is very rough in
places, and needs a lot of working up. Try any of
the Melbourne " weeklies M.A.11.: History is mov-
ing too fast these days to be heavily versified....
j.M.S.: “Contrast” well below print level F.G.S.:
You rhyme, but you don't say anything fresh....
E.A.M.: The censor is with us still. • ■ .Mcllaggis: No,
Mcllaggis, you will not confess your shame here....
LapaSorry serious verses won’t go. Cubist poem
handed to the Red Page man 'Pa P.: Interesting,
but too slight and fragmentary. . . -Eva 12. M. (“aged
19” 1): We must reject the contribution, but, if you
will allow us, we will be several brothers to you.
D. st. C. M.: Regret no crust here. Try one of
the local papers. .. .C.E.G.: Poem is suffciing fiom
a serious complaint. It was stillborn. .. .L.J.M . :
Cheerily, pale poet! And do give up trying to rhyme
“past” with “heart.”... .L.H'.W.: You haven’t the
skill... .P.A.Q.: Not up. . . .C.E.11.: Don’t care lor
the cemetery song, or the rain song, or the wattle
song, or the concerto. You appear to be short of
words to express yourself. Suppose you were a brick-
layer and had no bricks to express yourself with,
would you get some bricks or would you go fishing?
Take yourself Aside and ask yourself this question. • • ■
G.0.1i.: It'S a bald threepenny history L.L.Y.:
Too dreary John A.: Very long and involved, and
quite humorless.... Dum bum: Missed the taiget.
... .Warradulhi : Homely verse —it wants a poet’s
corner to sit down in. .. .C.M.L.: If the Kaiser really
talked like a fruitshop Dago the fact would have been
mentioned somewhere before this.... Charles 1.P.:
Morning song of thanksgiving very pleasant, but
there’s nothing very original about it Pioneer:
Guess you must he a better hand with the axe. ...
Vernon Iv.: Very young story indeed Bardie :
Cheap stuff E. Mu: Suggestion and verses fail.
... .M.C. (W.A.): So you are going back to twine
dandelions in her yellow hair. Good luck to you !
....Pluto: Don’t know what it’s about, but we don't
want it. .. .1.F.M.: Too crude.... Pluto: Twaddle.
Granite: All right; we’ll let him rest there in
peace The Hermit: Well, you can see now what
"a big spending proposition” it is unless you re
blind Ethel G. 11.: Can’t make use of notes.
Incidentally, a typewriter will do you no harm if you
are going in for freelancing. Quite unable to read
some of your copy... .Thomas A.: (1) Anybody who
accepts a billet from a German firm and then goes
larruping into the shop wearing a miniature Union
Jack and the Tricolor in his coat is looking for
what came your way; (2) If compulsory training is
being evaded by a trick, it’s up to you to shake up
the Defence authorities. .. .G.W.: Thanks....
Thyatira: Far too 10ng... .R.N.M.: Thanks, but not
our line. Will pass it to The Lone Hand. .. .Criss
Pratt: Right An Admirer: Seen them, thanks.
.... Pemmican: Y r es, maybe; but all that was long
ago. Anyhow, are you sure that Paris scheme was
in William the Sudden’s mind? A man called in the
other day and assured us to the contrary Spraggs:
Crisply written; but most of the yarns have wrinkles
on them Wiorubi: (1) Martial law has not been
proclaimed in Australia. (2) No one may be shot
here for spying. In fact, the Only permissible form
of execution is by means of an oiled rope, after a
trial before a civil Judge and jury.... Gordon A. T.:
The Australian publishers are feeling pretty tired
just now, and would probably shake their heads.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Rhoades: Napoleon wasn’t a wooden image....
Arnold M.: Haven’t you got any brighter ideas about
you?... .S.L. (Perth): Smudges without real ideas
behind them....N.J. (V.): She’s a nice young
fashion-plate, but the remarks of the nuts won’t get
her published.... F.J.P. (S.A.) : Lose your mappings
pen and study awhile... .0.11,: But surely the Allies
can do more than spin cobwebs round the Kaiser.
... .Ilowa: One of those silly remarks that are hardly
ever made, and should never be published. .. .R.S,;
Gag is a poor excuse for a picture. .. .F.K.K. (W.A.) !
Can’t make any use of them. Stuff is humorous in
its own way.... Rupert E.: Last saw the gag in
N. Life. It isn’t much of a gag, and the Life
drawing was miles better than youhs. .. .P.P.: That
Entente jest might have been considered 10 years
ago. Perhaps it was.... Tom R.: “I am enclosing
pen-and-ink sketch, which I think you will find suit-
able for your paper.” Think again. .. .Arnold M.:
You’ve got the beginner’s usual few rudimentary
ideas, but that is all. if you are interested in draw-
ing, by all means go on with it. But you’ve every-
thing to learn. .. .Mirinta (or perhaps it is Miranda) :
Sorry, ideas of no value... .L.A.: The early settler
is the wrong shape.... Park: Can’t use it....
B.S.S.W. (Queenstown, Tas.) : According to our
records they were posted back on September 9. .. .
M.T.: The sort of little pun that we abhor....
O. : Why do you show prance and John Bull (the
latter a wretched, undersized comedian) looking on
placidly while the German Billygoat jumps on little
Belgium? Russia, on the other side, appears to be
armed with two cameras, a roll of bedding and a
spear. And he isn’t using the spear—he is merely
dropping salt on the goat’s tail. . . .L.G.1.: You can’t
draw, and your humor is mostly “Cripes!” and
“Struth!”... .Ned W.: Yes, it may be new; but is
it humor?. .. .J.D.: Mrs. Darlinghurst’s face looks
as if it had been wrecked by a boiler explosion, and
the cook’s countenance isn’t much better. Learn to
draw, or stop being a scalded-flesh artist.... Harold
M.: The only way you can save yourself is by flying
to the top of a tall building and wrecking the lift
and stairs with dynamite. The Religious Editor left
at midnight under sealed orders. He was masked
and armed and had been drinking heavily... .L.B.
(V.): If you can’t see some of the faults of that
drawing, you had better give the game best. Gag- is
older than you are. .. .M.T.M.: No good. . . .C.11.U.:
Hopeless both ways... .E.H.T.: No. .. .8.C.H.: Rough
work. . . .T.G. (M.L.) : Don’t admire the whale....
J.D.: Thanks for the idea, but we prefer not to
borrow. .. .S.M.T.: There will be no tiger. .. .Chry-
salis: Pity the poor artist. .F.H.P.: Guess we won't.
. ...A.S.M.: Too much skull for the money..,.
C.E.G.: Not useable.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP riOME.
At the War.
a l
t\r-
A '
C 3^
m
t- V-
G-Jffzzc w.
■ :
V--53
1 aS&SSfegSSi
X:
'\.X
A
•ocs^r
\/
■A *
'A s jf
\ r
\\
w
\\
VSFS
)%&**<**£-
Jxss*
\
/ -
& -X
y
‘X>
¥
t.
// •.
f ~»*
ni
CX *
rSP
M
r
&
V.XA
/y
•'V.
rwprawi,,'.,
f£S
/
yft-/4f
mdf-
y
mm
ms,
iV
Jg?
#J
y
rz
II
I
.//,
Ci
sty
y
s*
Mi
■mT
X
H:
.
N
‘A’
wsra
t> *
-mr
'■fi&ft?
*7
O
2StS
!7”K?SSiPs^
ft.
SS*
,y<'Xfo^
:■»
• r&*<&
X?
XS'I
A
O P 4
II
Cobra
99
t
Boot PolisK
©
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Cooks a soldier
Dinner too.
Though they’re
Day and night,
Cliunder after
Every fight
Has hot food
For everyone ;
That is how
Big fights are won.
“Well-fed troops
Like cobras fight ’
Is his motto,
And he’s right!
O


SYSTEM IS ESSENTIAL IN
MODERN BUSINESS.
w
w
m
sx^
<6
44 90 per cent, of the failures in retail
shops are due to lack of system.”
The large commercial agency making the above statement
has had many years’ experience of retail shops and knows the
facts concerning it.
If yon cannot be sure that your method of handling your
cash will tell you to the penny how much you should have
in your cash drawer, your system must be weak, because it per-
mits of losses by mistakes and carelessness.
All losses must come out of what should
be your net profit. Without a positive system for
checking your takings' you do not know— you cannot even
guess —how much you arc losing.
Why not investigate the merits of National Cash Registers?
It will cost you nothing to learn about the most perfect and
effective system in the world. Over 1,350,000 "National”
systems arc in use, covering every kind of business —large or
small. •
The National Cash Register Co. of Australasia, ltd.
HEAD OFFICE 119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all the Principal Cities.
'■jmseffigiSEt
S3SES
K*:**
n
This is the British Made
ENSIGN” Camera
that can be used for Plates or Films.
....Some Photographers stand for Plates, others tor
Films. The individual advantages of both are available
to the possessor of a “REGULAR ENSIGN” Camera.
With this model one may insert a spool of film for six
or twelve pictures, or, when one exposure only is required,
it simply means removing the back panel and the inser-
tion of a dark slide. The reversible view-finder, with
spirit-level attached; the rigidity of the stirrup front; the
beautifully constructed shutter and lens, are some of the
most striking features of the “REGULAR ENSIGN.”
SYDNEY:
586 George Street.
MELBOURNE:
266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
95-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:
43 Rundle Street.
Also at AUCKLAND, N.Z., and WELLINGTON, N.Z.
About, the heroes who lingered on: —
(1) When Bill Smith heard his country’s call, and
announced that he was going to enlist, his family
wept tumultuously on his bosom, and his work-mates
tendered him a smoke-concert and presented him with
a p a i r 0 f field-glasses to watch the enemy through.
They also gave him a wristlet watch so that he
would know the time to expect the enemy.
(2) A few days later Bill got his fighting clothes
and went into camp. As he expected to leave next
morning all the women wept over him and the men
wrung his hand.
(3) A couple of nights later Bill arrived home,
wet through, and said his camp had been flooded out.
The regiment had been told to go home and say
good-bye. The women made an effort, and wept over
him again. , . . , .
(4) Bill took part in a route march, which had
been arranged f or the benefit of the public. All his
women waved and wept from windows. Friends and
the papers called him “a fine body of men.”
(5) a. reverend gentleman wrote to ihe papers on
behalf of Bill, pointing out that the evenings were
long in camp, and would kindly disposed persons
supply Bill with harmless parlor games so that lie
would not he tempted to go into town and drink,
lie had to do-something while he was waiting to go
to the war.
(C) When he was Invited for the fourth time to go
home and say good u.. e- to his people, Bill almost
got himself court-martialled for retorting that “he’d
b e d—d if he would!” However, in consideration of
his previous good character, the oHieer commanding
said he would overlook the offence and allow Bill to
go to the war.
(7) Bill almost became a misanthrope when his
most devoted visitors started asking him when he
was likely to start for the war. On such occasions
he would go sadly away and watch the tower of a
distant pub through his presentation field-glasses.
Time hung so heavy on his hands that lie thought the
wristlet watch must be chronically slow, and gave it
away.
(8) The day after Kitchener announced that the war
couldn’t last much longer, someone surprised Bill by-
telling him that he was going grey. Bill thereupon
looked closely at his camp-mates and discovered that
they, too, were ageing. They had very few visitors
now, and the papers hardly ever referred to them.
(9) Bill’s heart broke the day lie read in a
borrowed paper that a pompous but ill-informed
Liberal politician had formally asked the l’remier of
the day if be bad any official knowledge regarding
the bands of old men in fancy dress who had infested
the city so long.
“Harrison 0.”: When is Melbourne Re-
pertory Theatre going to give the Australian
dramatist an opportunity on the stage of a
theatre V If Arthur Adams’s play, “Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier.” was good enough for two
nights at the Athcmeum it. justified at least
one performance at, a regular theatre, where
director McMahon periodically offers the
work of foreign highbrows. Also, sonic Re-
pertory patrons are beginning to ask if it
is pure coincidence that local authors almost
invariably get the weakest of the Repertory
players. In “Mrs. Pretty” only two minor
characters in a. cast of 1.3 were done any-
thing like justice. Most of the others wore
not even forgivably amateurish.
“Ilorunui” : “Midcliannel s description of
Shaw’s “Mrs. Warren’s Profession” as
“slabs of lewdness” is irritating. Personally.
I think it one of the most chaste plays ever
written. Probably “Midcliannel” would pre-
fer “The Merry Widow.” with its heap of
sensual suggestion set forth in a fascinating
and tempting manner. Shaw’s white slave
traffic exposure is given with a grim and
repulsive hideousness, but it is more effica-
cious than a gospel lesson. Where Shaw
has given offence to so many is in placing
the finger on the key to the whole vital ques-
tion. viz., our competitive system of econo-
mics, which breeds the creature of the
underworld as inevitably as it breeds the
social butterfly.
“Record Room”: T. K. Tilton, who plays
Wu’s major-domo in “Mr. Wu,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, is a young Maorilander with a.
jrood deal of Australian experience. In
M.L. he acted professionally and coached the
gentle amateur. He also committed sev-
eral plays of his own. With Ethel Buck-
ley’s touring company, in N.S.W. and
Queensland, he did good work as a rapid
producer: and with Beaumont Smith, m
Sydnev. he has shown himself a capable
stage 'manager. Tilton recently married
Miss Pearl Hellmrich. whose dad’s name,
as Mayor, is inscribed on the Paddington
(Sydney) Town Hall. Mrs. Tilton, who
has had experience in both drama and
vaudeville, plays the English flapper. Hilda
Gregory, in the Melbourne production of
“Wu.”' '
“Harrison O.”: One of the merits of the
Melbourne Repertory Theatre's productions
i= that the voung are played by the young.
In Galsworthy’s “Joy” the boy and girl lovers
were a couple of crude amateurs ; yet they
were fairly convincing because they were
youngsters." whereas, in a professional pro-
duction, they would probably have been mis-
represented by middle-aged mimes. Amateur
artlessness comes as a pleasant change alter
professional artistry, raid youth, on account
of its rarity, becomes almost a virtue.
THE ELUSIVE NAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Russians have begun the siege of
It's only a Russian could get his tongue
Round a word like that!
To the average Britisher —old or young
Whether he’s sober or whether lie's ‘ sprung
The resources of language go bung .
With a word like that!
Przemysl !
May I frizzle
If I can pronounce you!
All the same,
Despite your name,
Ivan's going to trounce you.
It’s only a Russian who'd have the heart
To tackle a place named that!
A chap who, like Ivan, is slow to start
And not very sudden or showily smart:
But soon it won’t be on the Austrian chart
You can bet on that!
Przemysl
Will frizzle.
A reprisal
Waits for you, as stated ;
Be resigned,
Make up your mind
To be obliterated!
N.S.V.
PETRONIOUS EARBITER.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Peri Winkle” : The (Try. spell in the north
of Victoria should mean, a goldmine for every
settler who can boast a/ decent irrigated
lucerne patch. As much as fid an acre is
being paid for a five-months' grazing .ease
at Bamawm, and £2OO a month has keen
secured by a settler for the use of his 14b-
acre block. For all that, it may pay the
settlers better to cut and stack tlieir lucerne,
whereby they may earn up to £2O an acre
during the summer. Besides, when a lease
H let. the sheep kings see that their nocks
get their money’s worth when on the land,
and the vegetable is ■ eaten so close the
miracle is it ever grows again. The Hunter
Tliver variety is a miraculous kind ot
fodder when watered and cut scientifically.
You can see it growing in the warm weather,
and the more often it is cut at the right
time tiie better it seems to like it. As much
as £7 a toil Will be realised for the fodder,
trussed, during the coming hot weather: ana
this may*help to banish the eternal _ tend-
ency of the average irrigalionist to grizzle.
* • * '* *
-diKattgarooster”: “Ivuseobin” is off the
track in prophesying (B. 17/9/T4) that
Yacca gum will go up in price owing
t > the war. Unfortunately, the market for
it is Hamburg; and, as that port is closed,
the flourishing little industry is settled, un-
less Senator Pearce gets to work with
another ammunition factory. Besides being
of value for its picric acid, this- gum is used
in making varnish, in clarifying wine, and
in manufacturing linoleum. Why cant we
do all these things in Australia? Kangaroo
Island is the only place where there is
much first-class gum; that from the grass-
trees on the mainland is much poorer. As
for prices; a German ring in Hamburg has
been controlling them, and the shippers here
have as usual been the pigeons.
*' * * *
There is easy money for the local horse-
breaker these days. The last Australian
Government, when it set about mounting the
different State Expeditionary Forms, made
a beginning by buying up all the vanner s
and baker’s, butcher’s and milkmans horses
it could get. These animals —young, active,
solid and not too big—represent the exact
type which the military authorities require.
Then the Government buyers began to
operate out back. There has been no sys-
tematic breeding on the part of any horse-
owner of the military type of prad. buen
as appeared before the Government agents
were pure flukes. Still n fair number
e> entuated at the combined call of patriot-
ism and ready cash. There must be a lot
more of the same type, though in an un-
broken state, in the remotenesses of this
great land —more particularly in Queens-
land. And every one of them will be
wanted before the second Expeditionary
Force Leaves these shores. .Che skilled
horse-master and breaker who bogs m at
once, snaps up all the likely-looking animals
that are available, and reduces them to a
peaceful frame of mind, will make a ittb
fortune,
THE FARMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Whv did I go to Fiji?” said Mr. A. '«?c, °f
Kempsev, a passenger by loiua !^ ea - l ain
reporters interrogation. IJI tea >ou\vi
looking for a new country in '^ h not fleeced. 1
trv where the man on the land is nO V;
,nav take up an area in Fiji or I may go to the Aig
tine ” Mr. Verge, who is a farmer, declares that the lo
of the producer in this countiy is becoming unbea^
able, lie does not object to fair taxation, bi.
.... hpti.o- subjected to grinding taxation, and J am
ick of ft,” he said. Fiji was a fertile country, but
it seemed to him that it was run more in the
interests” of the natives than the Europeans. Acco
inglvhe was disposed to try South America which
he believed, had a very bright futuie.— S. M. Hek.u.i .
A wanderer from soil to soil
The hapless farmer gees,
With back all aching from his toil
And sweat upon his nose.
In vain he works with hardihood
All round the weary earth,
For no one pets him as lie should
Be petted for his worth.
Australia is a fertile land,
With sunshine every day;
But, oil, lie cannot understand
The taxes he must pay.
He fain would find a Paradise
From all taxation free,
So packs his bag, and in a trice
Is steaming to Fiji.
Full many a fellow’s uncle made
A fortune over there,
But latterly, I'm much afraid,
There’s little left to share.
The ancient Burden presses down
The shoulders of the whites,
While magistrates with awful frown
Uphold the nigger’s rights.
“It’s me to go across the wave
And seek the Argentine,
Where niggers have no souls to save—
Ho, Buenos Ayres for mine!”
Alas, too soon he drinks the cup
Of sorrow; he is bust;
And all his hopes are jiggered up
When he confronts the Trust.
He wants so little here below,
This farmer lone and sad !
Only ten thousand roods or so
Of soil that’s not so bad ;
Only exemption from the tax
That all the world must bear;
And niggers humping on their backs
The crop they mustn't share.
He cannot settle down in France,
For France is full of gore,
And taxes aren’t a circumstance
To losses made in war.
At Merrie England's gate he knocks
But cannot find content,
For there the farmer pawns his socks
To pay his monthly rent.
I'm sorry for the fanner who,
With modest tastes like that,
Can never find a country to
Become his habitat.
He’ll wander low and wander high,
A man of wrath and pain,
Until I think he’ll have to try
Australia once again.
N.B.W.
A. M.


/
THERE-
T
IG
1
r
%
HPI
m
tk
&
:::
m
&
%
ft
tb.
$
&
::
::::
07/
wtf&ertisTL
INDIGESTION!
Right there is your most important life organ —the breeding
place for germs of dangerous diseases, which, if neglected, may
ruin your whole future life.
At the least pain or sign of any disorder of your digestive
organs, make up your mind quickly and ward off dangerous conse-
quences by taking Chamberlain’s Tablets for the stomach and liver.
The first dose will give relief, aid digestion, drive away the
cause of your pain, cleanse your bowels, and their continued use
will restore you to perfect health.
There is no better medicine for Indigestion, Biliousness or Con-
stipation, than
CriAMBERL
The Stomach Liver.
DOCTORS, DENTISTS* LAYMEN
Here is the pain remedy
you have been looking for,
DR, STOHR’S KEPHALDOL,
The most successful and nearly
perfect PAIN-KILLER,
ANTIPYRETIC,
ANTINEURALCIC,
and ANTIHIDROTIC
YET DISCOVERED BY SCIENCE.
Before this preparation
was given to the public as a
"proprietary" it had already
been extensively used in all the
leading European and British
hospitals with the most con-
spicuous andgratifying success,
as has been shown in numerous
clinical reports reproduced in
the many medical journals of the
various countries since 1908,
These reports are signed by men
well known over the entire
world for their achievements
in science and medicine.
\
Doctors who have used this
preparation have reported in
hundreds on its efficacy and
have given it preference over
all other products generally
adopted for similar purposes.
Dentists have found it un-
equalled in giving relief from
pain immediately following
difficult extractions and in
cases of abscesses under treat-
ment and of facial neuralgia.
Kephaldol has acted where
all other preparations failed.
Being of Chemical composi-
tion, and not purely a mixture,
and, even though each sgr. tab-
let contains 34% of phenacetin,
large doses are possible and
absolutely harmless.
As many as 18 tablets a day
have been administered for six
weeks continuously in a very
severe case without any dis-
agreeable secondary phenomena
in respect to the heart.
Sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers , in tubes, 1/6 & 3/6.
Manufactured Entirely in Australia.
[B(JO2i


15ct. Gold and Platinoid Brooch
set- pearls and aquamarines, £6/10/-.
9et. Gold Brooch, set pearls and
garnet or amethyst, 12/6.
9ct. Gold Brace-
let, set diamonds and
red stones, 35/-
Oct. Gold
Earrings,
set pearls
and garnets,
iso/-
30/-
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless Lever Watch, non-magnetic,
full' jewelled, patent time spring, com-
pensation balance, 30/-. Extra jewelled,
35/-, 40/-. Gold-cased, 84/-. Solid
Gold, £7/10/-
35/-
AUNDERS
f
9ct. Gold Links,
richly engraved, 20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
SYDtmYS LEADING JEWELLER
Gifts forthe Bride-to-be.
Charming Designs from Australia’s Great Jewellery
Palace, where your order will be personally executed
and promptly despatched.
9ct. Gold Spray Brooch,
set pearls and turquoise, 8/6.
9ct. Gold Fancy Spray
Brooch, set pearls and turquoise, or
all pearls, 20/-
9ct. Gold Pendant,
set pearls and amethyst
or garnet, 17/6.
18ct. Gold
Diamond Clus-
ter Ring,
£7/10/-
18ct. Go 1 d,
set diamonds,
rubies or sapphires,
£5/10/-
15ct. Gold,
30/-. 18ct.
Gold, 40/-
15ct. Gold,
25/-. 18ct.
Gold, 30/-
i-T
%
N Ttf-SteO
wedding
I 15ct. Gold,
40/-. 18ct.
Gold, 50/-
721 PI°D "P2T
70T PI»0 <P6
18ct. Goli
Ring, set dia
monds, £lO.
18ct. Gold,
all diamond
ter ring,
£22/10/-
Oct. Gold, set
pearls and ame-
thysts or red stones,
25/-
WRITE FOR OUR SUPERB NEW
JEWELLERY SUPPLEMENT.
Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Bracelet, full jewelled, lever movement, £4/10/-
807=817 George Street,
Railway ,
SYDNEY.
9ct. Gold Sove-
reign aiid Half-
Sovereign Purse,
£4. Plain, £3/15/-
15ct.
Gold Brooch, set pure
cut diamonds, £5, £7/10/-
double-
15ct. Gold and Platinoid
Brooch, set diamonds and tourma-
lines or aquamarines, £5/10/-
9ct. Gold
Barrings,
set, pearls
and garnets,
17/6.
Oct. Gold Half
Round Bracelet,
richly chased, safety
chain, £2. 16ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
20/-
Gent.’s Nicitei i\on-magnetic
Keyless Lever, full jewelled,
patent balance, non-magnetic, time
spring, dust- and water-proof eases,
20/-. Higher grades, 25/-, 30/-
251.
New Health & New Life for the Weak & Ailing
Get well the “Wincarnis’’ way —the quick,
sure, safe way to new health, QUICK
because the benefit begins from the first
wineglassful. SURE because it has given
new life to countless thousands of sufferers.
SAFE because it contains no drugs as do
other Wine Tonics. “Wincarnis” (the
Wine of Life) is a Tonic, a Restorative,
a Blood-maker and a Nerve Food—all
contained in one clear delicious beverage.
Are you Run-down ?
Do you feel listless, low-spirited and weary of
everything? Do you find your work irksome and
your recreation exhausting ? If so, you are “Run-
down” and “Out-of-sorts.” But a few doses of
“Wincarnis” will quickly put you right. Take
a wineglassful of “Wincarnis” in the middle of
the morning, and another the last thing at night.
You will be delighted with the new vigor and new
vitality it will give you.
Are you Anaemic ?
Is your face white? Are your lips and gums
bloodless ? Are your eyes dull ? Does your heart
palpitate? If so, you meed “Wincarnis” to fill
your veins' with new, rich red blood. Take
“Wincarnis” three times a day.
You will feel better from even
the first wineglassful—you
will feel the new, rich blood
dancing through your veins.
Mot fur Here, dear, drink this
glass of ‘Wincarnis.’
It will put new life
into you."
Pi
MCA
" The Wine of Life.
Are you “Nervy” ?
Do you “jump” at a sudden sound? Do you feel
irritable? Are you nervous? Do you get head-
aches? Do you have neuralgia? Do you suffer
from nervous debility? That is because your
nerves want “toning up.” You need a short
course of “Wincarnis.” “Wincarnis” is a power-
ful nerve builder, which acts directly upon the
nerve centres, and thus transmits new vigor and
new life to the nerves all over the body.
Are you Weak?
Do you feel incapable of exertion? Does your
work exhaust you? Do you feel intensely weary
in all your limbs? If so, take “Wincarnis three
times a day, and it will give you new strength and
new vigor. And eaeli day more strength and
more vigor, until, step by step, it rebuilds your
weakened, constitution and recreates your lost
vitality.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
To-day is the best day to begin to get well. Buy
a bottle of “Wincarnis” from your Wine Merchant,
or Licensed Chemist or Grocer, and take ad\ant-
age of the new health and new life “Wincarnis
offers you.
But be sure you get “Win-
carnis” —clout waste
mouev and risk your health by
accepting a substitute.


INCREASE OUTPDT with
Modern MACHINE TOOLS
The essential features of reliable workmanship and reasonable
price are embodied in our large assortment of high-grade
machines, which include—
Lathes, Planers, Milling Machines, Power
Hammers, Forgers, Shapers, Drilling Machines, etc.
These machines are made by reputable manufacturers, who
put high-class labor and material into their products, which
consequently ensures that accuracy in every detail denoting the
Machine of Precision.
Price and full description on application.
c
Proprietary Limited,
554=66 and 582=88 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
And 51=65 Bathurst Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
-O.S. Wiring System
for Private House Lighting.
Our improved system of installing Electric Eight is carried out by
means of the celebrated “Stannos” Wires and Fittings.
This is the Simplest, Safest and most Economical system now em-
ployed, and, as handled by us, presents the following advantages:
Adaptability to all lighting and small power requirements. Neat
in appearance, and especially suitable for wiring on the surface,
being almost invisible. Watertight and Fireproof. Quickly and
safely installed with minimum of disturbance and no damage to
premises.
We are thoroughly experienced in private installation work, and
absolutely guarantee efficiency.
i .
Write for particulars—TO-DAY.
K. WALTON & CO.
Private and Country Hoijise Lighting Experts,
Central Chambers,
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 3814 City.
Nestles
Condensed
MilK.
5
b
UliiOU.
I-USC
3 (TWA
Dc
O
71
£
CD
o
PURPOSES
m
i
RICHEST
in CREAM
mm
&mmos
“The
Milky
Way”
The Housewife’s Book
Containing
THE BEST HUNDRED
COOKING RECEIPES ISSUED.
Posted free to any address on application to
NESTLE'S, 26 King-st., SYDNEY


Shipping. ''
P* and Of BRANCH SERVICE.
For DURBAN, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Via MELROURNE and ADELAIDE.
h
*Twin Screw. All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION AMIDSHIPS.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
CONDON £l6, £is & £2O.
CAPETOWN & NATAL, £l3 135., £l5 15s. & £l7 17s.
Tickets for return, via Suez (second-class), P. and
0. Mail, from £49 19s. to £53 11s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Melbourne: John Sanderson A - Co., 11l William St.
Adelaide and Fremantle Agents; Coo. Wills & Co.,
Limited.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
ous Steamers. Cabiues de-luxe; Staterooms, with
bedsteads ; Single Perth Dooms, Private Bathrooms,
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Pi.ack, Stonkv.
Bunking. Public Companies, &c.
Government Savings Bank
of New South Wales.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commissioners—
R. A. WARDEN (President), W. H. O'M. WOOD,
11. D. HALE.
Security and Satisfactory
Interest
are the leading features of this Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
Interest paid at on first £2OO, and 3%
on excess to £5OO.
The. Bank has 130 Branches and over 500
Agencies. No Agencies at Post Offices.
DEPOSITS Guaranteed by the Government.
By order of the Commissioners,
J. 11. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE.
Bank of North Queensland
LIMITED.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £700,000.
Subscribed Capital and Reserves, £385,000:
Directors: lion. Sir ALFRED COWLEY:
1:1 on. ROBERT PIIJLP, M.L.A.; lion. A J
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.,
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Brandies throughout QUEENSLAND and i,n NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL. BANKING BUSINESS.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL .. ..£2,000 000)
SUBSCRIBED .. .. ..£1,198,679
TAID-UP (30th June, 1914).. .. £1,195 591
RESERVE FUND £45^000,
HEAD OPPlCE—Cieorge and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OPPICE—2 King William Street, E.C.'
DIRECTORS —Sir William P. Manning, Kt., Chair-
man; George J. Si.y, Esq., LL.D. ; Mark Sheldon,
Esq. ; Arthur S. Barton, Esq.; Frani( N,
Yaimvood, Esq.; Herbert R. Lysaght, Esq.
Branches throughout New South & Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian, Commonwealth,
New Zealand, arid aj|l the principal: towns of the’
world. C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 166,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Jas. Munro, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.; Hon. G. W. Gray,
M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.
General Manager —-W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE .... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney & throughout
Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
file (olonial Mutual Qife
assurance society limited
for
•Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and
Annuities \vithout Mutual Liability; also
Accident, Sickness and Industrial Assurance.
Head Office:
D1S:& 421 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,445,000.
Amounts paid to Policyholders exceed £6,000.000.
'Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeas-
ible.
'Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
ti avelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Eruce Smith. K.C.. M.P.
A. RJSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping
TO SAN FRANCISCO
Via WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
RAROTONGA (Cook Island),
And PAPEETE (Tahiti).
THROUGH BOOKINGS to any part of
AMERICA or EUROPE.
ĥ
Around World and Around Pacific Tours.
Steamers stop 2 days at Wellington and 24 hours
at Papeete “The Pearl of the Pacific.’’
All Steamers equipped with Wireless. Telegraphy.
PARTICULARS and PAMPHLETS obtainable at
UNION S.S. CO. of NEW ZEALAND, LTD.,
259 George Street, Sydney.
"|“HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
Rl\ ERS; also to BYRON BAY, COPE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination ’tickets arc issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Mu'nvillumbah’
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND-TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £0 Ss. Gd. : second-class rail and steerage
on steamer, £4 2s. 6d.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 2GI GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL, Managing. Director.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth & London.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE
ħ
■‘Triple-Screw Turbine.
Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine Signalling Gear.
Saloon- FAKES— Third-class.
London, from £45. £l6 to £2O.
Capetown and Durban, from £3O. £l3/13 to £l7/17/-
Special Kound Tickets for Return by Orient Line,
£llO (First-class both ways) ; £B2 (Second-class
Orient).
Saloon Return and stop-over tickets interchange-
able with Holtis Blue Funnel Line. Third-class
Return and stop-over tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Service.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS from £122/10/-.
SALOON CABINS on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest stan-
dard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, etc., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
Australian Steamships Line
UNSURPASSED PASSENGER ACCOMMODATION.
Fast Passenger Steamers
Sail as follows (circumstances permitting:) :
SYDNEY
RRISOANE
ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
‘CAIRNS
(‘Transhipping for
this anrl other
Queensland ports).-'
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 24.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne October 28.
Leaves Sydney October 31.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 4.
Leaves Sydney Nov. 7.
For
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and AY.A. ports).
SOUTH.
CANBERRA (8000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 24,
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney October 31.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH CO. LTD., Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
HOLIDAY CRUISES
m
im
To PAPUA and PACIFIC ISLES.
To Papua via Brisbane and Cairns.
To Solomon Islands via Brisbane.
To the New Hebrides via Lord Howe and
Norfolk Islands.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS OF FARES AND SAILINGS TO
BURNS, PIiILP & CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
DIRECTOUS:
£3,500,000
£2,450,000
£3,500,000
£9,450.000
Th® lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Kt.,. M.L.C.,
President.
Thomas. Auckland, Esq.
liichard liinnie, Esq.
Kobert Lionel Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The lion. Janies 'J'. Walker
The lion. Edmund IV. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The lion, lieginakl J. Black, M.L.C.
AUDITORS: Alfred George Milsan, Esq.; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-29 Thread needle St., E.C.
340, Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, NEGOTIABLE 'THROUGHOUT
-THE WORLD. ,T. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited..
Capital! Paid-up ... .. £2,000,000 0 0 1
Reserve Fund .. .. 1.730,000 0 0.
Reserve Capital .. .. 2,000,000 0 O'
£5,730,000 O' 0:
DIRECTORS:
Gkqrce J. Cohen, Esq... .. Chairman.
Mon. H. E. Hater, M.L.C. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Mon. H. Moses. M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq,
Norman Shelley, Esq.
Auditors: F. W. Hixson, Esq., and W. L. Docker; Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibus.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. 11. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY-
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors: F. H. Dangar, Esq,; lion. Hi. S,
Littleton ; N. Di Cohen, Esq.
Manager: F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Bank of [)e» Zealand,
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING,
GEORGE STREET.
Guaranteed; Stock. .. ... ..£1,000,000
Preference Shares. . . . . . . 500,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,000,000) Paid-
up .. . . . . . . .. 500,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 1,418,117
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Bri-
tain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £544,654 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . . 156.136 10 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) 78,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -
Gen. Man.. Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Man. :K. 11. Matthews.
Louden Office: 31 Budje Row, Cannon Street, London
29 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
T
Trice Gd
HE Best Stories written in Australia
appear in The Lone Hand each month.
UNDER NEUTRAL FLAG
TO
AMERICA and ENGLAND.
Oceanic Steamship Company
10;000 tons, Twin Screw Steamers. 17 knots,
Classed 100 A 1 at British Lloyds.
CABINS DE LUXE with BATHS.
__ SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY-
VENTURA.
SONOMA..
I Oct. 24 j Dec. 19 | Feb. 13 I April 10
.. | Nov. 21 j Jaro., 16 | Mar. 13 | May 8
'lhe San Francisco' Panama Exposition iis open'
February-December, 1915., Tickets issued to London
via San Francisco, and back by any Suez Line.
Tel. 2282 City. Apply— 44. PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fc'RV
hh
The greatest remedy on earth for
strains and sprains—and many
other horse troubles.
I«arge Jars 5/- obtainable from Chemists, Stores,
and Saddlers everywhere. Post Free for 5/6
from
SOLOMON COX & SON,
439 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Shipping. _____
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and- from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ALBANY
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North-Western Ports.
T S S. WARILDA (SOOO
tons), fitted Wireless
Telegraphy, Saturday,
Oct. 24 and Nov. 21.
(Carrying First and
Second Saloon and
Steerage I’assengers.)
BRISBANE
MACK AY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
ALLINGA, Oct. 24.
INNAMINOKA, Oct. 31.
_ -Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's- Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGIC STIIKHT, SYDNKY.
The Vancouver Route
AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, CANADA
CANADIAN - AUSTRALASIAN R.M.
LINE
in conjunction with Canadian Pacific Railway.
THE “ALL-RED ROUTE” to ENGLAND
OPERATING THE LARGEST AND FINEST VESSELS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC FROM AUSTRALIA.
SAILINGS :
h
*Triple-Screw Steamer, fitted with Cabins de luxe en
suite, Bedstead Rooms, Nurserv, Laundry, Electric
Lift.
First Saloon passengers wishing to break journey at
New Zealand may proceed by Intercolonial steamer
from Sydney without extra charge.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Full particulars and pamphlets from
UNION ST It AM SHIP COMPANY OH N.Z., I.TII
Managing Agents, 259 George Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
" Zealandia,” “Westralia,”
“Ulimaroa,” “Wimmera,”
“Riverina,” “Victoria.’'
All of Modern Construction.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy..
Maintaining regular services between
COMMONWEALTH & ALL NEW ZEALAND PORTS,
HOBART AND SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE AND LAUNCESTON,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND WEST
AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
Apply for Illustrated Handbook, giving
Passage Rates and Time-tables.
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And All Ports,
URING the Summer a most pleasant,
refreshing, invigorating Tonic Bever-
age may be made by adding a few drops of’
Phos to a glass of cold water. Though
Phos is, primarily, a children’s tonic, yet
weary adults should always keep a bottle*
handy. Get it now, and don’t be without
it when the hot, fatiguing days' come round.-
Sold in shilling bottles. If not obtainable 1
locally, send 1/3 in stamps to the proprie-
tors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & C 0.,,
Melbourne.
The Edison
Amberoid X
£B/10/-
ĥ
A versatile entertainer that enables a home to
have the greatest variety in music. It is the
lowest-priced of the new Amherolas, is handy
to move about, very ornamental and really
high-grade.
The Cabinet is fumed oak finish. Has
Diamond Point Reproducer, Model 8., Power-
ful Spring Motor, Belt Drive.
Plays Blue Amberol Records, and will play
any four-minute record when equipped with
Sapphire Point Reproducer. Model N-56.
Price 12/- extra. Size, lojin. high; 12jiin.-
wide; 151 in. deep. Price £B/10/-.
Ask your nearest Edison dealer to play any
Blue Amherol Record you like on this grand l
instrument. You will be delighted. '
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.-


ħh h
Which
?
■
In selecting your shoes, to which
do you attach most importance,
style, comfort, or wear?
ABBEY SHOES will satisfy you
equally as well on all these essen-
tials, therefore why not Abbey
Sbmes?
The illustration depicts our VERY
LATEST MODEL in a' Choice,
All-Patent Derby Bal 32/6
Also in Highest-Grade Tan Willow
Calf .. 32/6
In half-sizes and quarter-fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O.aiul Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
ĥ
“ARABIS” CELEBRATED EGYPTIAN
HENNA for GREY HAIR.
A Lady writes: “I like the Celebrated ‘Alt A BIS’
Egyptian Henna before all others; it is the best and
cheapest I have ever used.”
Arab is Egyptian Ilenna has the largest sale of
any Hair Stain on the Australian Market. Avoid in-
ferior imitations to deceive. .y>u. Look for the signa-
• 'V‘ r . ed Arf,lp . v on genuine. Price 1/- and 2/6.
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores in Australia
Commomralffe
HEAD OFFICE
ħ
®utk* f Australia
SYDNEY I
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
CITIES and TOWNS of AUSTRALIA, and LONDON
in the
principal
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places dirert » ~
Letters of credit issued to any part of the world. Bil or forward w 9 ,u ;? ot, * ted a,,t * collected.
Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Commonwealth ; ,l't! T 10 "i B «»king and
Current accounts opened. Interest paid on fixed deposits. Advances made agkinit approveds°ecWr?tles
Savings Bank Department
BRANCHES in the chief centres and AGENCIES at
Deposits
from
1/- to £3OO
2000
Post Offices
in Australia. Interest at « 0 /
and Papua per annum
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor. ~
I DENISON MILLER, Governor.
QUEENSLAND,
The Wonderland of the Commonwealth and the Most Resourceful of the Australian States.
Healthy and Delightful Climate. Enchanting Scenery, Liberal Land Laws.
« l i l i i i tJeS e at Potentialities, still in the process
land ofreis a field of unbounded scope to the investor
prospective settler and to the honest worker 0 ’
of initial development, Queens-
the scientist, tlie tourist, the
For Descriptive Pamphlets and fuller particulars.
Apply to THE INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU, Rrisbane.
„ , C. TIJOEDSON, Director.
Branch Office: 116 Pitt Street. Sydney. X.S.W. A. MESTON, Local Director.
h
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
>*’ TOBACCO
A COMFORTABLE SHAVE.
Vi
That is the kind of shave every man wants. That is'the kind he gets
when he uses -a
“PLUM” RAZOR.
,^ ie Plum is a real gem, and shaves clean, clear and easy. The
blade has a keen cutting edge which ensures satisfaction every time
it is used. We are practical tradesmen, and know the edge required
to give the best results. 1
TRY A "PLUM” TO-DAY—IO 6, Post Free.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/G.
Double Case, 30/- This line makes a handsome present.
Al. the Above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE SXREEX, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 30 YEARS.
llolplh, &c.
m
* m
IS
m
eorge hotel,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Latest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria-
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
TARIFF:
From 16 - per day
an'd upwards.
The Hotel is finely situated, with
abundance of air and light. -,: u It
is the most central, largest, most
modern, most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HAUL AND SUPPF.R
ROOM.
HANDSOME DRAWING ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for. Afternoon Tea.
EXCELLENT CUISINE EVERY AFTER-
NOON AND EVENING.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONES being installed
in all rooms.
J. URE SMITH, Manager, ;
Castlereagh Street,- Sydney^
THE FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter
with Special Attachment
for FORD CARS— —
ĥ
FORD CWNERS
can now have
a SCHEBLER
CARBURETTER
installed at A
minimum o f
expense, and
gain, ....
MORE POWER,
SPEED and
FLEXIBILITY;
EASIER STARTIJNC
QUICKER PICK UP
and
BETTER ECCNCMY.
Price, as illustrated. £5/10/-
Booklet and all particulars from
SOLE AGENTS—
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
‘ON THE HOP.”—A superb library
volume, containing; over 300 of
“Hop’s” best drawings. Price 21/-,
from “The Bulletin”' Office, Sydney.
The BEST is
A GIANT
OF STRENGTH.
RING PULVERISERS
Reduce your grinding unit to one machine, one belt, one
elevator, one screen, less room, less power, and secure
your finished tonnage with less operation cost per ton.
More Tonnage-Less Installation Cost.
Describe your material—state tonnage and mesh screen
you use.
American Ring'-
ammer
Bar closed—^ THE RI f G , IS . THE WHY. Slow Speed, less friction-wear—‘saves power and maintenance. Grate
year to a given finenes anrl t 0 P r ® vent c *?gB»»g* Will Pulverise more shale and clay, good, bad and indifferent, any time cf the
’’’ produce a ton of finished material, cheaper. Tonnage and Fines guaranteed. Write for particulars.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
&
LTD.
163 Clarence Street
SYDNEY.


Write for a Free
Collection of
Summer Shirtings.
The New Summer Fabrics have arrived. Never has the Department
assembled a more, fitting showing. There are cool Zephyrs, rich Silks,
strong, light-weight Oxfords, breezy, wear-proof Crepes and soft Ceylons.
YOUR SHIRTS TO MEASURE NEED COST NO MORE.
It-means much greater satisfaction, longer service and added comfort.
Your individual wishes are incorporated, and you select your own material.
PATTERNS ARE FREE TO YOU.
Send for them to-day. You incur no obligation. ~ •
SHIRTS TO MEASURE from 5/- each.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Toowoomba
A Hot Weather Trouble Avoided.
TRUMILK (SKIM)
POWDER.
Place Powder on top cold water and beat with Egg Whisk for a minute. Result-
beautiful milk free from germs, suitable for all purposes.
NO MILK GOING SOUR. NO ICE NEEDED.
Ask your grocer for a small tin.
Queensland Agents: WEBSTER & CO. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
•New South Wales Agents: FOGGITT JONES LTD., Sussex Street, Sydney.
IN
BANANA LAND
“W.”: A recent statement that the
Queensland banana industry is passing from
Chinese to white growers is misleading. Pro-
duction has increased in the South, where the
Chow was never a factor; in the North Ah
Fat has run it to a standstill, exports from
Cairns and Innisfail having fallen over SO
per cent. The explanation of the disaster is
that the Chow grower is not concerned about
the condition of the land, and exercises no
discrimination in selection, cultivation or
marketing, whilst his orchards contaiii and
distribute all available pests. By preponder-
ance of production he reduces the value of
white growers’ superior goods to his own
level. This is the cgse with maize as well as
vegetables. The Chow influence on Northern
agriculture and horticulture is supreme,
which may account for the readiness with
which the Alien Leases Act can be, and is,
evaded; and empty North Queensland will
never be much less empty until this, misuse
of land by Asiatics is prevented.
“Meona,” on a well-preserved Old master:
Jack Hamilton, one of the most picturesque figures
of Queensland’s picturesque past, and for 28 years
in its Parliament, has been lately in the Stanthorpe
district with his keen grey eyes on molybdenite.
Age does not wither nor custom stale his infinite
variety; but to the present generation “Jack” is
remembered chiefly for his amazing accuracy with
the revolver, for which he holds the world’s record.
His life has been packed with more incident than a
score of ordinary ones. On the Palmer diggings he
was the doctor—in a way he was forced into it —and
he had the largest, if not the most profitable, prac-
tice in Australia, 5000 polyglot patients passing
through his hands yearly. At that time there were
19,000 Chinese and 16,000 whites on the field.
Hamilton was a demon with his fists, and it was
more than once his ironic lot to repair in his own
hospital damages which he himself had inflicted. He
was the only Justice of the Peace on the diggings,
and on one occasion committed a man to take his
trial at Cooktown for a diabolioal murder. A Ger-
man witness was called and described the state of the
body when he saw it. Both arms and the head had
been cut off. The Prosecutor said to the witness:
“And from all these circumstances what conclusion
did you form?” The witness paused for a moment.
Then the illumination came and he said solemnly:
“Veil, ze conclusion I vas come to vas that she vas
dead 1”
The tobacco-workers of Victoria recently
sent an emissary to find out the conditions
under which the trade worked in Baiiana-
land. He discovered that men were receiv-
ing only 325. a week, as compared with 545.
in Victoria, and that girls were paid from
40 to 50 per cent. less. The Brisbane
Courier is much annoyed that the report
of this rude and inquisitive tobacco-twister
should be published, and refers to his
audacious doings under two indignant
headings: “VICTORIAN IMPERTIN-
ENCE” and “FOMENTING STRIFE IN
QUEENSLAND.”
The Brisbane Courier has started in to
help educate the natives. Its specialty is
geography. Gather round
There is not, however, reason to suppose that it
Holland were drawn into the struggle she would be
against the Allies of the Entente. She would have
a lot to lose in any event, for her Hattie shores could
be harassed by the German ships of tear.
Now, what mischievous wretch has been
pouring the Baltic into the North Sea? Out
with it!
BACK TO EARTH.
ROSE (after the engagement): “And what are the very sweetest words you ever
heard , Mossy?”
MOSSY: “Ah! I remeniper. ‘Ve vill pay you der full insurance, sir. ’”
If meat stores energy in . the boiler,
Queenslanders should be almost bursting the
receptacle. On the latest figures they eat
262.351 b. bn an average per annum, whereas
the allegedly beef-eating Briton scores only
1121 b., and Italy’s little lot is a mere 261 b
very little more in the year than the Banana-
lander swallows at his Sunday dinner.
. In financial tricks the Denham Goveru-
ment can teach most of them something.
Uijder the 1906 Railway Act the lands bene-
fited by a new line might be made respon-
sible for .earning net- interest on the cost of
construction up to 3 per cent. That is to
say, if'the line didn’t pay 3 per cent, on
cost in addition to working exes., the
owners could be called on to make 1 up jthe
shortage. Now Denham proposes to wipe
out the liability incurred by various districts,
capitalising the shortages for three years
and charging them to loan. This means
that part of Cohen’s money will be repre-
sented by deficits on the working bf lines">
in spite of which politicians will of course
go on referring to the State’s loans as being
represented by “permanent and reproductive”
undertakings.
Northern public servants are a grimly
humorous crowd. Every Bananalander knew
quite well that promotions in the service
were “off” this year, for obvious reasons.
The teachers therefore seized time by the
forelock and offered to forego their rises—
an offer which the Minister promptly
accepted with many compliments re the
patriotism of his flock. The rest of the
public servants, who didn’t think of tins
neat scheme for collecting marmalade, have
been gasring with admiration ever since.
The late Henry Majoribanks Chester,
police magistrate, was by instinct an adven-
turer. He soldiered in India and roamed
the AVestern Pacific, started a storekeeping
business in Brisbane, joined the Queensland
police, did some exploring, and hoisted the
British flag at Port Moresby, proclaiming
Queen Victoria owner of all Papua
except the part claimed by the _ Netherlands
Government. Thomas Mcllwraith, when lie
picked on Chester for the Papuan busi-
ness. thought that as he (Chester) had been
Sir Arthur Gordon’s right-hand man in the
Western Pacific, and virtually Commissioner
of Papua, Downing-street would ignore
the irregularity of the proceeding or condone
it. But Downing-street gave the back of
'its hand to Mcllwraitlf and emptied Chester
overboard. After that he was given odd
magisterial jobs, mostly in inaccessible
places, until old age drove him into retire-
ment at Brisbane.
“Tassy Hoe” : The farmer, being a simple
and innocent soul, knows nothing of the fine
city arts of adding sand to the sugar and
water to the milk. He is so-clumsy and
heavy-handed that a Too’woomba-firm recently
-had to write as follows in reproof of a client’s
“carelessness” : ,
Your truck of potatoes arrived this morning. Our
carter refused delivery owing to soil. I had a load
brought out; and emptied two bags. There was
1941 b. of soil in the two. We are taking the potatoes
over and re-bagging them before we send them out,
and please make a note that we will not take
delivery of any potatoes in future branded .
When the firm forwarded the cheque a reduc-
tion was made for 4cwt. 141 b. of dirt. It also
intimated that instead of sending his land
down by the bag, the famer might save a lot
of trouble and freight by posting the title
deeds.
The Blinky Way.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When little eyes commence to tire
And curly heads begin to nod,
W’hen funny faces fill the fire
And tiny brains have fancies odd,
The signs are full—the hour is near
To drop from gentle lap and stray
Among the flowers that slyly peer
Beside the children’s Blinky Way.
It starts from every fireside where
The young ones flock at eventide,
And gives a path to all who wear
A weary look at mother’s side;
’Tis planted all with poppy bloom
That nids and nods in fashion gay,
And seems to whisper: “Here is room
For them who walk the Blinky Way.”
It winds about a meadow green
(The stars a-spangle in the dusk) ;
’Tis half in shade and half in sheen,
And fragrant all with mint and musk ;
Its birds flit by on silver wing,
Its ponies all are dapple gray,
Its fairies featly dance and sing
For joy along the Blinky Way.
’Twas fashioned in -the Long Ago
When Ogres fought with Pippin Tim
(You see they loved Princesses so
They’d let you tear them Jmb from limb
Before they’d set the darlings free)
Yes, back in that delightful day
The children first, as all agree,
Began to take the Blinky Way.
They frisk along, a laughing troop,
Until they reach the Land of Dreams,
And there in many a smiling group
They dance beside enchanted streams;
No warning voice nor frowning face
May mar the sound of happy play
Or kill with care the tender grace
That lies along the Blinky Way.
And you and I, though big we be,
And hard of face and void of curls,
May catch a glimpse, if craftily
We crouch among our bQys and girls,
And still our tongues, and shut our eyes,
And so deceive the warders gray,
At whose behest the portals rise -
That open up the Blinky lyay.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, October 17, 1014.
My Dear Tiiargomindah,— .
Rain, patriotic entertainments, more
and the theatre have filled the menu for
week, with the Red Cross Society throw
in a few undignified rows and bickeri
There are some people who would s( l ua ._
even when bidden to the first and only P
formance of the Trump of Doom. -f t
latest news from the storm centre is t
the whole of one of the Red Cross co
mittees (or sub-committees) has resign
in a batch. If all the other warlike ang /
did likewise there might be some chance
each of Queensland’s soldier boys getting <
new shirt next Christmas. As it is, the
doesn’t seem much hope of the work P 1 °/
gressing as the necessities of the
demand. ~
Mrs. Boyd Irwin, of “Within the baw
co., is a sister of one of our most popuiai
young matrons, Mrs. (Dr. A. B.) Carvosso.
With Mr. Irwin she is staying under the
Carvosso roof, which is fatrjed in this out-
jpost of Empire for its atmosphere of cheer-
ful friendliness.
Ailsa Craig, a Sydney girl who also
belongs to the “Within the Law” party, is
staying with the McSwaines. at New Farm.
Her sister Dorothy is with her. On Friday
the McSwaines enlivened a large bunch or
friends at a party in honor of the visitors.
The Sunshine concert party dropped
round to the Army Medical Corps’ camp on
Thursday night and cheered the spirits or
the mending and patching brigade with
samples of patriotic music. It was a kind
thought, and if kind thoughts are not more
than bayonets these days, they are perhaps
next best.
“Within the Law” quite stirred this city,
and the theatre has been crowded every
night. At the first performance, in one of
the most pathetic scenes of the play, an
hysterical female in the front row of the
gallery delivered a sob that echoed all over
the house; and the house, turned its back on
studied tragedy to laugh its buttons loose at
the unrehearsed comicality.
On Wednesday Miss Katie Cannan’s danc-
ing pupils held a ball in the Centennial IlalJ,
and the. proceeds, which went to the Patri-
otic Fund, had a comfortable, bulgy feeling.
To-night Miss St. Ledger’s dancing under-
graduates are doing ditto, with the imper-
ceptible difference that the cash harvested in
this case is destined for the Red Cross Fund.
This afternoon, in between heavy showers,
the Hospital Sports happened at the Exhi-
bition Grounds. The Arthur Morgans and
the Mayor and Mayoress floated in aboard
four-wheeled rafts, but most of the rest of
those present consisted of the members of
the band, the athletes, and a few dozen
soldier-men.
A fete in aid of some deserving cause or
other was let off by Minister Barnes this
afternoon. Another, in aid of St. Colomb’s
Church at Clayfield, was uncorked by Mrs.
.Tenkinson yesterday, and has been bubbling
ever since.
To-night, after the performance of “Within
The Law,” “Snowy” Baker auctioned a
Union Jack. Lincoln Plumer supplied the
comic relief, while Muriel Starr provided the
ornamental relief. The audience, however,
failed to come to light with the cash relief,
ahd the flag fetched only £3l.
; When last heard of, Mr. and Mrs. Mark
Pringle Elliot, late of Brisbane and now of
Sydney, had just returned to London from
Bath, Tenby' and Northampton, after paying
a round of visits to Mr. Elliot’s sisters. The
Australians intended leaving for Scotland in
August. Continental Europe was to have
been included in the itinerary, ' but Con-
tinental Europe (barring Rome, Messina.
Spitzbergen, Madrid, Monaco, Lapland, etc.)
is a doubtful proposition now.
Yours affectionately,
AUSTRALIA JANE.
The champion easily-upset man has been
heard of from Rockhampton. He was
annoyed by fowls scratching in his yard, so
he got a rifle and fired two shots at them.
Both scored misses, whereupon there was the
usual chaff. It was more than he could
stand, so he put the rifle to his head and
blew his brains out.
The Patriarchs of Melbourne City Coun-
cil began a really big job the other day.
They perceived, in their/customary Argus-
eyed manner, that the/ traffic around the
Central Railway Station was congested, and
they decided that the time was ripe to spend
£50 —not a penny less—in rounding off the
pavements at the two northern corners of
the intersecting streets. At this crucial
stage it was borne in on them that money
was tight, and the entire splendid scheme
fell dead. Yet it still lives, in the sense
that it indicates something of the elan and
imaginativeness and grasp of large affairs
which characterise the Melbourne City
Council.


ħ
JI -
w,
3SOS
>1
tm
r :-
O
AS.
)X
\si\b


'the comfbrtable jvav on. ci summer s day
1 o
' SIS *«
Qt~ J§ [mP "4
.
wrhm
'ydm
"m
c
m\
B "
>7%2&
--- w
VSV* ■
The G~E Electric Way
B 3
3tmMf
GE
nmmsa
nSsM'- i
Saves Steps, Time and Toil
Merely snap a switch—and you can snap your fingers at red-hot
stoves and all the other wearisome trials of ironing day. And not only
is the work easier and quicker, but the ironing is better because
"EVEN HEAT’
No Spot too Ho!
with the G-E Electric Iron you get “ Even Heat.”
At the point, in the middle, around the edge, at the
heel —wherever the iron touches the goods —you get the
same .even, uniform heat.
Don’t you see how this “Even Heat” makes better,
quicker ironing? Don’t you see how, by saving time, “Even
Heat” also saves electricity? Don’t you see how “Even
Heat” —no spot too hot —saves wear and tear on the linen?
The Cost for an Average Family Ironing is only 3 pence
for electricity —when you use the G-E iron. Waste of heat is pre-
vented by air spaces which hold the heat down in the ironing surface
where you want'a steady, uniform, even heat.
Be sure and get a “GENERAL ELECTRIC” iron with the big
G-E trademark on the guarantee tag.
The Guarantee of Excellence
on Goods Electrical
Hakes Coolness a Certainty.
What other comfort can you have for such a trivial cost that will
mean so much in your home?
To banish the oppressive heat of sweltering days or sultry summer
nights you need merely turn the switch of a G-E Electric lan and com-
mand breezes to blow —fast or slow, as you please.
Twenty years of laboratory study and factory application are repre-
sented in the smooth-running, noiseless mechanism of this peifect electiic
fan. It is the most popular and Avidely sold electric fan in the world.
Its Oscillating Motion
By turning from side to side, all the air within its radius is silently
and effectually set in motion. .
The sturdy construction of this fan—its perfect integrity .ot
materials and parts —the beautiful balance of its mechanism, which
prevents vibration and likewise avoids noise—all assure a lifetime
of satisfactory service.
To be sure of getting this fan—with all its many improvements
—look always for the G-E trademark in the centre; but insist on
getting a G-E fan.
Any desired finish to harmonise with surroundings may be
ordered.
0
Melbourne
©Little Collins Sts
Cot
dne
ueen
S
Street
31 Glixrence.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Street.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Ausf., Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
Edward Street. «
—Agents
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone Ltd., 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: National Electrical & Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Dunedin, Auckland, Wellington & Christchurch.
"HIS MASTER'S VOICE” RECORDS of
“THE GONDOLIERS.”
Have you ever noticed that practically every musical production staged in
Australia is represented on “His Master’s Voice” Records? how comes the
bright and fascinating Gilbert & Sullivan music, reproduced by these records
as clearly as if it were being rendered by the artists themselves.
Just a few of many numbers: —
SULLIVAN OPERATIC PARTY (lOin.
Records, 4/3).
4462 —jn Enterprise of Martial Kind.
4614 —Chorus of Men.
4414 —i am a Courtier Grave and
Serious.
4445 —In a Contemplative Fashion.
4427 —A Regular, Royal Queen.
g67'2—When a Merry Maiden Marries.
JOHN HARRISON (Tenor), IDin. Record,
4/3.
4-2086—Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes.
COLDSTREAM GUARDS BANDS (12in.
Double-sided Records, 6/6).
ClO2 —The Gondoliers, Selection I.
„ „ Selection 11.
B116—(lOin. d.-s., 4/6) Take a Pair of
Sparkling Eyes.
Mikado Selection 111.
By writing to The Gramophone Co., IG3 Pitt Street, Sydney, you will receive
an instrument catalogue, complete list of records and the name of the nearest
accredited dealer, who will gladly play selections for you.
BUY THE BRITISH-MADE
UcytCZ'
nimiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiinmiiiimiiiiimi!iniiiniiinimniiiuniiiWli;ilHHilllliHlT
His Masters voice
h
CIYSS INSTANT RELIEF.
Over 30 years ago the late Lord
lieaconsfield testified to the benefits
he received trom Himrod’s
Asthma Powder, and every
post brings similar letters
to-day.
AlipptA
mm*
Famed for 40 Years.
Best remedy for Asthma,
Hay Fever, Hose Cold, or
ord nary Cough.
So>ti tn Tim by mi Chtmuts amt Starts
throughout Ausiratasia,
Victoria Racing Club,
Flemington.
Cup W eeK.
DERBY DAY OCTOBER 31
CUP DAY NOVEMBER 3
OAKS DAY NOVEMBER 5
STEEPLECHASE DAY .. NOVEMBER 7
RECORD ENTRIES.
The Magnificent New Improvements Add Much to
the Comfort of Visitors.
H. BYRON MOORE,
• Secretary.
The Toy for the Boy
ANY BOY CAN BUILD
This Bridge with The American Model Builder, and 65
tether steel models besides.
'fho greatest thing ever invented for Boys, Educat-
ing, entertaining and noiseless.
h
Boys can build their own working
models and at the same time
secure a liberal mechanical educa-
tion,
It forms an ideal game for wide-
awake boys, particularly sons of
Railway and Tramway Men.
ENTERTAINS,
EDUCATES, and
MAKES NO NOISE.
Prices from
5/9
JERDAN’S LTD.,
Sole Agents - 393 George Street, Sydney.


m I
iilitSil
■ »/*.!
wm
■ , ‘
,
SSI M
m
L_
R-Thorme 6 Sons Limited.
zr Greenock* Distillery^
fcSTAfeUSHEO
1631 ,
Trade
Mark
At
£Wrrss®£Si
%
:
iCortAno
The Smile of the
Connoisseur
is one of genuine delight as he
o o
drinks the ‘finest spirit pro-
duced at Glenlivet —Thorne’s.
Its smooth, mellow quality- —
its uniform excellence —its real
Scotch goodness- —have been
upheld for, eighty years.
..... T . , . - ' ■ . •■..fcOSS-'-T*
Give your bosom friends a
treat next time they call. Help
them to Thorne’s. They will
appreciate your good judg-
ment.
It is in the “ Black Square ”
bottle, is perfectly distilled,
patiently aged and always
acceptable.
“Old
Highland
. Malt”
Incomparable.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
Twice Daily at 2.30 and 8.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SIDNEY,
FLORENCE SMITHSON.
THE 4 BOISES. RUSSELL & HELD.
SENOR WESTONY. WRIGHT & DIETRICH.
FATIMA. TORINO. CARPATU BROS.
JAMES TEDDY. JOHN EARL. !
PHIL KAUFMANN. RALPH ERROLLE.
Box Plan at Theatre and Nicholson’s.
IVOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PAUL CINQUEVALLI. AL HERMAN.
DE DIO. ANNA HANNA.
RICH & GALVIN. VAUDE & VERNE.
HAMMON & WYATT. EUGENE DAMOND.
Box Plan at Glen's. PRICES: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-.
JIVOLI TItEAT It E, ADELAIDE
EDDIE MARTIN. GEORGE HALL.
ROBERTS & LESTER. POWER BROS.
TOM KELLY. MDLLE. DAVENPORT.
FIELD & COCO. TED MERCELL.
JEROME & CARSON.
MARCO & FANCHON WOLFF.
J-J E It MAJESTY’S, S Y D N E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
A Season of GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA.
EIGHT NIGHTS ONLY-GF
THE GONDOLIERS.
SUPERB AUSTRALIAN CHORUS.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
RITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.10.
FRED NIBLO & JOSEPHINE COHAN
And J. C. Williamson’s Popular Comedy Players,
in George M. Cohan’s Mystery Farce,
SEVEN KEYS TO BALDPATE,
Founded on the Story by Earl Derr Biggers.
Plans at Paling’s. Day Sales White Rose.
T II K A T R E BO Y A L. S Y I) N E Y.
■ Lessees J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24.
For Six Nights and One Matinee.
MAUD ALLAN
and
Leo, Jan, Mischel
CHERNIAVSKY.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
ADEL rII I THEATRE. SY D N E-Y.
** Direction GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
Last Two Nights of THE EVER-OPEN DOOR.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 24.
The Sensational, Emotional and Thrilling Drama,
D IIIVJNG A GIRL TO
DESTRUCTION.
Success of our War Prices: Reserved Stalls, 2/-;
Dress Circle, 1/6; Back Stalls, 1/-; Gallery, 6d.
HE LITTLE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction HUGH BUCKLER LTD.
EVERY EVENING. MAT. THURSDAYS at 2 p.m.
MR. HUGH C. BUCKLER
and
MISS VIOLET PAGET
in
LORD AND LADY ALGY.
Plan at Paling’s.
You haven’t-seen Sydney until you’ve visited
The riCTURE block theatres.
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYRIC, COLONIAL. EMPRESS.
The finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, showing
select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
PRICES: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Baiihinuton Mii,i,Eli, General Manager.
The king’s theatre, Melbourne
Sole Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24.
First Appearance of Australia’s Favorite,
MISS NELLIE STEWART,
in
MADAME DU BARRY.
Prices: 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plans Allan’s.
IRTH BROS., LTD., GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH.
EACH NIGHT AT 8. EACH NIGHT AT 8.
In the Beautiful
PLAZATORO, WIRTHS’ PARK.
Prices: 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, and Gallery 1/-, except
Saturdays and Holidays.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, OCTOBER 24.
NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in
THE GLIIL IN THE TAXI.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices: 65., 45., 2s. and Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. Williamson Ltd. present
CHARLES A. MILLWARD and WILLIAM HARRIGAN
in
THIS AIiGYLIS CASE.'
PRICES: Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 6/-;
Stalls, 4/- ; Gallery, 2/-. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietors: GEORGE WILLOUGHBY, LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GEO. WILLOUGHBY, LTD., present, in conjunction
with Beaumont Smith and Louis Meyer,
the Romance of the Arctic North,
THE BA Kill Eli.
Prices: 5/-, 3/-, 2/- and 1/-. Plan at Pianola.
Esplanade, st. kilda, aielbourne,
Direction NIGEL BROOK.
THE GREEN HANDIES.
EVERY EVENING at 8.30.
Prices 2/- and 1/-. NO BOOKING FEE.
BIJOU T H E A T II E, SI E L B O U R N K.
FULLER-BP.ENNAN VAUDEVILLE.
Governing Director BEN. J. FULLER.
TWO COMPLETE SHOWS DAILY.
AFTERNOON, 2.30. EVENING AT 8.
AERIAL BARTLETTS, MULLANEY TWINS, EDIE
BOLTON, PHIL PEROIVAL, DARE NORWOODS,
DAN THOMAS, ED. BLONDELL, JOCK THOMP-
SON, ZENO & MANDELL.
Prices: 2/6, 2/-, 1/- & 6d. Matinees: 1/6, 1/- & On
|_|OYT’S PICTURES, MELBOURNE.
BEST AND MOST.
THREE BIG SHOWS.
OLYMPIA, Princes Bridge.
NATIONAL THEATRE, Bourke Street (Eastern end).
HOYT’S OWN, Bourke Street, centre (now building).
Direction ARTHUR F. RUSSELL.
Birch & caiiroll
(Queensland ).
THEATRICAL AND PICTURE MANAGERS.
Playing Pictures and Vaudeville in all the princi-
pal centres (excepting Brisbane) from Toowoomba to
Charters Towers.
Tours of Legitimate Companies managed over this
route, appearing in all the Leading Theatres of
which we have the Booking Control.
Representatives in Queensland for the General Film
Company of Australasia Ltd.
Head Office: ROTHWELL CHAMBERS, BRISBANE.
Business. Announcements.
TO MANUFACTURERS.
A Golden Opportunity at North Sydney.
A “WALK-IN” PROPOSITION.
A flue, new, up-to-date, two-storey FACTORY
BUILDING, over 15,000 ft. floor space, in MAIN
BUILDING, also lavatories, etc., and commodious
dining accommodation for employees. EXCELLENT
LIGHT THROUGHOUT. Engine-room, complete with
SUCTION GAS PLANT, ENGINE and DYNAMO, all
ready to connect. Rent, £l4 per week. Further
particulars and order to inspect from
R. SUTHERLAND & CO., 76 Pitt St., Sydney.
When something is wanted
to put on a burn or scald,
to heal a cut, scratch,
or skin sore, apply
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Ointment
It soon relieves the soreness and pro-
motes a qui k cure, while for a skin
wound especially its antiseptic virtue is
important. On other occasions also
it is useful—for insect bites or stings,
fo eczema, ringworm, and skin ail-
ments generally—whenever a healing
antiseptic ointment is needed.
Local Stores sell it.
Made by F.C.CALVERT & Co., Manchester, En<»
Another Surprising* Line
is the Solid Silver Sugar Basin that
we illustrate to-day.
Our managing director, when in
England, ordered thousands of pounds’
worth of Solid Silver Goods, and asked
for a special cut quotation for hun-
dreds of Solid Silver Sugars and
Creams, to be made in slack times,
and to be paid for Spot Cash against
delivery.
Result —we are offering the daintiest
designs in extra-heavy Solid Silver
Sugars and Creams at prices less than
those usually charged for Electroplate-
They are unheard-of value, and. yet
of exquisite finish, and the last word
in designs.
Heavy, Solid
Sugar Basin,
trated ....
Less 20% dis-
count ..,
Silver
illus-
-25/-
5/-
20/.
Heavy, Solid Silver Cream
Jug, as illustrated , 22/6
Less 20% discount 4/6
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.
PLAIN FIGURES—OASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
Buy Christmas Souvenirs
for the “Homeland” NOW.
Folk who propose sending Gifts to the Old Country are reminded
that it is well to buy NOW, in view of the possibility of delays
occurring through the War.
We suggest a few gifts here. Catalogue free.
No. 2. —This is a very Handsome
Ornament, fashioned from an
Australian Emu Egg, beauti-
fully carved with a typical
scene, and mounted in Silver on
an Ebony Stand.
Post free, 25 /«
05567.—A Solid
Silver Spoon,
typifying the
Australian Kan-
garoo or Emu,
in Enamel,
9/G.
No. 7. —Another Emu
Egg Stand, beauti-
fully carved and
mounted on Ebony
Plinth. Height, 10-J
inches
me
Handsomely Designed Inkstand, in Nickel Silver, with Australian
Emblems. A unique and useful present 27 /6
STEWART DAWSON’S,
Strand Corner,
412 George Street, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
Hamilton.— james (steel) Ham-
ilton, son of Mrs. Jane Hamilton,
late of Minnivey Farm, Dalmellington, Scot-
land, or any person who can give any infor-
mation regarding his whereabouts, are re-
quested to communicate, giving particulars
for identification purposes, with Messrs.
Andrew & Addison, Solicitors, Ayr, Scotland.
Business Announcements.
FILLS ITSELF
Cannot
Leak
ik
From 12/• each
ĥ
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish*
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat in
store for you. Ask for it at the
Soda Fountain.
HORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
IK
7**ns uML&i
ħ
h
ĥ
Let the Motor
pump your
Tyres with
the Mayo
Pump.
No auto owner
will continue using
a back - breaking
hand pump after
once being shown
this device. With this pump tyres easily can be
kept up to pressure at all times. Hence full mile-
age service will be obtained which will result
in a saving of 25% in the tyre expense. 50,000
satisfied users are our best recommendation.
Instantly attached to any engine (European
or American). Remove spark plug and screw
primp in its place. Start the motor and your
tyre is inflated with pure fresh air in from
two to four minutes. Just watch the gauge, it
tells the exact pressure.
Write to-day to us or to our nearest dis-
tributor.
MAYO MANUFACTURING CO.,
69E 18th STREET, CHICAGO, U.S.A.
Stockists: CARRATS LTD., Sydney, N.S.W.
R. B. SPINKS & CO., Auckland, N.Z
WAYERLEY PENS
FOR SWIFT LEGIBLE WRITING NO PEN
CAN COMPETE WITH A WAVERLEY.
ITS ENTICING ACTION, ITS SMOOTH
TURNED-UP POINT, AND ITS DURA-
BILITY, MAKE IT INCOMPARABLY THE
BEST NIB AND THE CHEAPEST. THE
RESERVOIR WAVERLEY CAN DO 200
WORDS WITH ONE DIP. TRY IT.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERB.
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
521 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :


Soft and White
v-
-1^
Cuticum Soap
And Ointment
Treatment: On retiring, soak the
hands in hot water and Cuticura
Soap. Dry, anoint with Cuticura
Ointment, and wear soft bandages
or old loose gloves during the night.
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are sold throughout
the world. A liberal sample of each, with 32-page
booklet on the care and treatment of the skin and
scalp, sent post-free. Address R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Drives Sallowness
from the Skin
Ladies, imperfect complexion is caused by
a sluggish liver. A few days’ treatment with
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS will do
more to clean up the skin
than all the beauty
creams in creation.
Cures constipation,
unclogs the liver,
ends indigestion,
biliousness and
di z z ines s.
Purely vege-
table, never'
fail. 1
ħ
Carters
'ITTLE
UVER
PILLS.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price,
The GENUINE must bear signature
Most Diseases are
Caused by Microbes
and the microbes produce fermentation
and decay. To cure the disease it is
only necessary to kill the microbes. The
merits of
RADAM’S
Microbe Killer
are well known all over America, in the
rmst, Canada. England, Europe and
Australia. Write for a booklet to any
of our Agents, who will mail you an
interesting story on the origin and dis-
covery of Itadain’s Microbe Killer.
Distributing Agents —
NEW ZEALAND—MaIcoIm & Grigs, 78
Bond Street, Dunedin.
QUEENSLAND—George Gough & Son,
240 Albert Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Cocking & Co,
Ltd., Tophain Street, Adelaide.
AVEST AUSTRALIA—W. W. Dobson,
Agnes Street, Beaconsfleld, Fremantle.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Cromack & Co.,
Royal Exchange Offices, Bridge Street,
Sydney.
MELBOURNE, VlCTORlA—Duerdiii &
Sainsbury, 349 Flinders Lane.
A si' your Chemist , ask your Storekeeper
for Radam’s Microbe Killer. It is your
remedy medicine for every ailment.
Cigar and Cig'arette
SmoKers* Attention.
OJEND Eight Shillings for trial box of
io 100 Manila Cigars, Best Grade. Eight
Shillings for 500 Philippine Cigarettes—cork
tipped—Best Grade. Satisfaction or Money
refunded.
Sent prepaid by registered parcel post to
any address on receipt of price.
Write for handsome illustrated free cata-
logue.
PATTINCELL 8 CO., Lucena, Tayabas, P.I.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HOLDS THE WORLD’S RECORD for LARGEST BONUSES*
NEXT DISTRIBUTION OF .PROFITS AS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1014.
oW,lnary ° epanmellt brfoie tll « close of the current year will
Cash Bonus divided for year 1913. .. £983 500
1 ielding reversionary additions to policies of over ft 7‘to'ooo
SOCIETY I.S PURELY MUTUAL. NO SHAREHOLDERS. ’ ' *’ * ’
La J rrler L are distributed among the participating policy-holders.
this yeal^s^ash oBonus 0 Bonus. 10 CffeCt a " assurance or a assurance on your life so as to reap the benefit of
"ull !VvtVn° the Head ?»fe?{ S r A any t I)istriei offlce or Agent of the Society for
am parrietuais. i.H HARD I EECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.. JAMES STEEL
General Manager and Actuary. Acting' Secretary.
ANEMIA
and Weakness
in Men, Women, and Children
Dr. ANDREW WILSON writes:
“It can be definitely stated
“that Iron ‘Jelloids’ constitute
“ the most effective and desirable
“ treatment for Anaemia or Poor-
ness of Blood. The sufferer is able
“to take Iron deltoids’ without danger,
“even with pleasure, and with the sure
“ knowledge that benefit will accrue.”
and re “MEN AND TONICS.”
“ There is a curious notion entertained by
“ the General Public that Iron Medicaments
“ are necessary for women only, and not for
“ Men. This is an erroneous idea. Now I
“ have found the form of Iron ‘ Jelloids ’ put
“up with Quinine (called Iron ‘Jelloids’
“No. 2a) to be an excellent tonic for men,
“and may be specially recommended.”
Breathing, hurried and gasping, on the slightest exertion, pale cheeks
lacking the ruddy glow of health, bloodless lips, a general feeling of weari-
ness accompanied maybe by pain after food, indigestion—constipation,
listlessness, inability of application to any pursuit or even train of thought
depression of spirits, and irritability of temper. Such symptoms indicate
Anaemia, and should, on no account, be neglected.
h
Irorc ‘Jelloids’
will remove the causes and symptoms of Anaemia. Iron is
what your system requires. By taking it in the form of Iron
‘Jelloids’ the not uncommon disadvantages of other Iron
tonics are avoided. No ill-effects are set up. No constipation.
No “rust ”in the stomach. No danger of non-absorption.
No fear of injury to the teeth. If you would have radiant
health, an elastic step and well-braced nerves, you must
have healthy blood. To improve and strengthen the blood
take Iron ‘Jelloids,’ commended by Medical Men, and
favourably reviewed by the Medical Press. As a general
tonic Iron ‘Jelloids ’ are excellent. They are pleasant and
easy to take. ;
A Reliable Tonic
Miss R. Ovenden, Station Crossing, Aylesfitrd, Kent, writes: —“I feel I
must say just a few words of the benefit I liavej derived from taking Iron
‘Jelloids.’ I was Anaemic for several years; e\jen after taking the first box
I was greatly improved. lam pleased to say lam now perfectly well.”
A Fortnight's Trial (price 1/6) will
convince you.
/RON JELLOIDS ARE SOLD BY ALIi CHEMISTS IN AUSTRALIA.
No. i for Children ; No. 2 for Admits, Men and Women;
No. 2A (containing Quinine) Special Tonic for Men.
Wholesale: DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES LTD., 82} Pitt Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Manufactured only tsy
The ‘Jelloid' Co., 205, City Rd.„ London, England.
ĥ
Tm an Old Hand
at the Game—
And you can take it from me that
banks’ is the place for the Tools in
our Line. You get the Most Reliable
Makes, the Most Up-to-date Ideas, and
you don’t have to pay too much for
them. I believe in the Rest, and
Always Get Satisfaction in going
there.”
SO SAYS THE ENGINEER.
HERE’S A LINE OR TWO
TEBECTRICIANS’ INSULATED PLIERS.. 2/-
TSLECTRICIANS’ INSIDLATED SCREW-
DRIVERS •' 1/4
TAPE MEASURES, in case, 66ft., from 1/6
•EXTENSION HACK SAWS.
STOCKS AND DIES FROM BEST MAKERS.
FILES FOR SHARPENING METAL-CUTTING
SAWS.
WRENCHES FOR ALL PURPOSES.
TINMAN’S STAKES AND BICK IRONS.
** A ™ PIPE 0F “* K,ND3 ' rto " eK '
John Danks & Son Propty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street, near Liv erpooi Street, Sydney.
Also at 391 Bouirke S Greet, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
One day this month J. L. Fordo, who has
spent half a century in journalism, in Syd-
ney, .Melbourne and Tasmania, completed
his 70(h year. lie got his early journalistic
schooling on Melbourne Age. His father
was a journalist, as was his father-in-law,
and the three of them together have made the
fortunes of four ink manufacturers.
* * * *
fin, _ _ uixlon’s biggest scares at the start
of the war was over printing-paper, or the
woodpulp that it is made from. Of the
1 • >,OOO tons used weekly in England, about
a fifth goes from the Continent—chiefly Nor-
way and Sweden —and it all stopped. So
did the supply from Newfoundland and other
American countries. Just when big editions
were demanded, the papers, or nearly all of
them, had to come out as thin shadows of
themselves. Even then 50 per cent, more
paper was consumed than usual. The imme-
diate result was a sharp rise in price, from
Id. per lb. to l id. Then about 50 papers of
various sorts fell down dead. Most of them
were “organs” of some restricted cause, either
a social movement in which everybody had
lost interest, or a game AVhich nobody had
the heart to play; and most of them grasped
the respectable excuse for dying as a blessing
in disguise.
* * * *
“Ilomer D.T. Shales” : The art of quota-
tion, as prgefised by Sydney Telegraph :—-
The Australian people will gladly accept the
opportunity of showing in a formal way their appre-
cuation of the magnificent courage of Belgium, that
, 1 1 iV ld ,. S0 B' r eat of heart” which has truly
played the lion’s part.”
Note the addition of the musical and majestic
which has truly”! The idea is worth ex-
perimenting with. Let’s try again
Though Councillor Culvert’s speech on the dis-
graceful state of the Council Chamber walls was plain
and direct, his general demeanor reminded our re-
porter of the Bard of Avon’s unforgettable speech in
leference to Julius Caesar: “Imperial Caesar, dead and
turned to clay, might stop a hole,” which, no doubt,
had been an eyesore, “to keep the wind away.”
P. u " n K the first 10 days of the war
no official information was made public here
(London) concerning the disposition of the
British soldiers or ships. Regiments, fully
equipped, marched the streets of the big city
and disappeared. Nobody knew where. It
was all part of the policy of Kitchener, and
the public did not actually know whether
the troops were going abroad for active ser-
™ce w s l '®. simply out for show purposes.
The Court Circular, issued daily from Buck-
ingham Palace, however, nearly gave the
show away. One of the first pars, said:
tjueen Alexandra and ladies in attendance
visited Chelsea barracks and witnessed the
departure of the Grenadier Guards and Cold-
stream Guards for active service abroad.”
llie nowlj -born AYar Press Bureau received
one or these circulars Just after it was issued
and down came Mr. F. E. Smith, K.C.. M.P.’.
the director of the Bureau, to the assembled
pressmen. Among other things, be described
the Circular as being a stupid production,
and he asked the boys to cut out the refer-
ence to departure for active service.” Next
morning the news paragraphs simply stated
that the royal party had visited Chelsea
barracks which interested nobody.
“Kaniva”: A quaint little publication
which has a very limited circulation, is The
Imperial, printed by McKinley and Co
Paunch office, Melbourne. It lias no price
attached to it, and its means of distribution
* 10 sweet will ot its owner and proprietor
and also editor, a former member of
Paunch,, who takes the pen-name of
Demos. Ihe little magazine with the bi-
name runs to 80 pages, and its range of sub-
.lects includes politics (old and new), his-
torical notes, legal and church matters, news-
paper notabilities, various samples of
poetry, imaginary interviews with and
between celebrated personages, and a few
remarks on odds and ends.
THE MAX WHO WRITES THE AVAR NOTES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You will know him by his very solemn look
As he walks with fingers locked behind his back,
By the witness of the newlv-borrowed book
In cloth of flaring red or sombre black.
He is pondering a method to defeat
The Kaiser’s hosts with unexampled gore;
And yet he looks so harmless in the street,
The man who writes the notes upon the war.
The books that taught the nations how to fight,
He reads them all, from Jomini to .Jones ;
In strategy he takes his one delight,
And tosses army corps like knuckle-bones ;
In Kitchener he meets a kindred soul
(He handled Kitch. in Africa before),
And none will help the Allies to their goal
Like him who writes the notes upon the war.
In fancy he is strolling by the Aisne,
Unshaken by the screams of German shell;
Its bloody chaos seems to him as plain
As Wollongong from Bulli’s citadel.
Napoleon’s'eagle gaze you’d hardly trust
To view all Europe’s realms from shore to shore;
lie does it every evening for a crust,
The man who writes the notes upon the war.
IVhen Russia claims a victory, and when
The Kaiser says lie's blown the Czar to pot,
V\ hen in the game of cut-and-come-again
We grumble: “Have they won, or lost, or what®”
He’s not allowed one adumbrated doubt;
Like Harald Baker in the Stadium’s roar,
Ho has to speak his verdict boldly out —
The man who writes the notes upon the war.
The cable man who dresses up his batch
Of self-accusing- lies from near and far
Has no perplexing theories to hatch ;
IHs job is finished when the head-lines are.
But later yet, till half-past two a.m.,
A pallid scribe on rows of proofs must pore,
Trying to squeeze a meaning out of them —
r Jhe man who writes the notes upon the war.
When Joffre fails, and Rennenkampf is dead,
And in the dust John French his alley slings,
They’ll have to find another man instead
Who takes a continental view of things.
A strategist is waiting to be bagged ;
For union rates, or half a sovereign more,
He’ll bring you home the Kaiser bound and gagged,
The man who writes the notes upon the war.
JT.S.W.
A. M.


m
•‘THE CERT” D.8.8.L. GUN, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever ,‘iOin.
steel barrels, extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap
fore-eml, pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about Tib £l/15/-
Same Gun as above, but with Greener cross bolt ■■ • £2/5/-
P oat age on one Gun, 2/9 N.S.W. ; 5/2 Inter-State.
Harrington 8 Richardson’s
5.8.8. L Gun,
12-gauge tor-
action, solid
case hardened
boilSed steel 1 barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about (Bib. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary
Double Barrel Gun.
ħ
Auto-Ejector, 25/-; Non-Ejector, 22/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W. ; 4/S Inter-State;
h
The “ Continental," 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock,
case-hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38iin.. weight about 41b. A A -| /I fil m
splendid gun for use in Orchards. Postage—ls. Qd. N.SAV •, os. Ld. Inter-State. / /
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
Head Depot: HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
City Sports Depot: 119 King Street, Sydney ;& at Hunter Street, Newcastle.
Send for our
Price List of
Guns, Rifles,
Ammunition,
and all Sport-
ing Goods,
Post Free
Anywhere.
GUNS that give Satisfaction.
The BEST HOUSE for all kinds of
GUN REPAIR WORK,
©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks,
cross bolt, extension rib. left full, right modified choke, »Oin. special steel ban s.
pistol grip, walnut stock, engraved, weight of tsA-itlim 1
o}lb. to 71b.; of 111-gauge, (ijlb. to (ijlb. I)ELI\ EKEI |)
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge at 12/6 extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been niade too
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a <h
©
9
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
r.Oin. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full
choke 12-eauge shot, 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about (tin.
CARRIAGE PAID.
£6 10s
All folk who know
what is good when they
taste, should at once taste
Bird’s
the Perfect CUSTARD.
Its delicious flavor and creamy
richness are simply a revelation!
Sold in Pkts. „ -Boxes and new large Tins.
Try also BIRD’S Crystal JELLY-It dissolves instantly.
POST FREE.—A Valuable Recipe Book sent, on receipt of address, by
W. C. Douglass, 53, Liverpcaol Street, Sydney.
c 155 s.w.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived tfte Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
since 1596
Write for Book. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Insist on “ Siiv.'leton s’ —refuse all substitutes-
FOR WOUNDS, CUTS AND SORES
Just wash the part clean, rub in a little
WILKINSON’S
ECLECTRIC OINTMENT
and vou’ll have the skin healed and. Healthy
quicker than with any other ointment on earth.
Everyone says so who has used it. Write for a
tin now. 1/6, posted 1/9.
J. WILKINSON, Chemist,
2] Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
I' S-;
mn
no
r«
II
tip.
mCMi
mm
m
:sii!L
lßs®y
till. it’-IBSr
=
-3
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from <>s.
Gd. and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all 1 ar-
ticulars posted on application to
Tiie Manager.
SCHUTE, BELL, &. Co., Ltd.,
" SELL WOOL & SKINS.
Personal attention to all consignments. Why notcgive them a trial ?
OFFICES': 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1913 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mkrrik
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. JD>r. LAMAR-
TINE'S SILENT FIi.IP.ND, Is 6d. NI«D DONiSKLLY'S ART
or Boxing, -new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle* Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Is. posted. How to Strengthen
the Memory, Is id. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of tub
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Co-operative Commonwealth, 1/6.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handyuook, 1/3. Quadrille Call Book, 2/-. ,
Adventures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks & Games,
Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/2. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales, 1/3.
Tricks and Diversions with Cards, iHns., is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simpletests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet's Fortune Telling Book of Fats.
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is: post, Is 3d.
How to Become Quick at Figures, Is Id.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Isl
nosted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Mysteries-'
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce. Us. Practical Gas and-
Oil Eng. Handbook, 6s. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d-
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain fop. the.
Rritish, 6d. How to. Faces, Is 3d. How to-
Train for all Sports, I,s 3d. Diseases of Horses,
is 3d. Theory of y'a&.vb, Is 6d. French Polishing
».nd Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d Prof. Fowler’s Human Scikkck,.
10s 6d. Australian Pastrycook’s Guide, Is 6d,
wmm
M
m
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAT'S' HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but aoout
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage. which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information emoraced
in its covers. The new 20th Centurv edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
E ar-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
Gll’SY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and Row to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano. Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 4s.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. The White Slave Traffic, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date. Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts. Puelic
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d
Complete Bookkeeping. 2s. Life of Deeming,
illustrated, Is Id. How McDougall Topped
the Score, & Other Verses. Is 3d. Trench
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan's Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Lee’s Priceless
Recipes, 1/3 posted. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-67 & 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OE MY STOCK CAM
HE GOT FROM THIS AI)VT.
4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
remit in stamps, money order, or
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to tlie Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. On. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3/6. Adam L. Gordon’s Poems, complete,
1/3. Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the
King, Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, hey to all
p e <r r ees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free.
Bennarp, Macfadden’s Works, all at 5s posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 10UNKW
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 lllus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
o-uineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Isi -,d. iana-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, eloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoi ance,
I*s post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


Digest What
You Eat'
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Health.
1)0 you enjoy wliat you eat? Tf you don’t, your food does not do you much good.
There is no way to maintain the health and strength of mind and body except by
nourishment. There is no way to nourish the body except through the stomach.
The stomach must be kept healthy, pure and sweet, or the strength will go down
and disease will result. I)r. Sheldon’s Digestive; Tabules are the remedy that
everyone should take when there is anything wroiig with the stomach.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules arc the only digestant or combinations of
digestants that will digest ALL classes of food. When you take Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules everything you eat tastes good, and every bit of the nutriment
that it, contains is assimilated and appropriated by the blood and tissues. Did
you ever hear of a man or woman being sick or weak who could eat heartily, and
who enjoyed their meals? Every man, woman or child who is sick, puny or weak
can soon eat heartily and enjoy every meal if they use Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules.
MAKE YOUR STOMACH STRONG 8 HEALTHY.
These TABULES are sold everywhere at 1/6 for a tin containing 36 TABULES, or 2/6 for a tin
containing 80 TABULES. Buy a tin, eat a good, square meal, and then take the TABULES
according to directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it if you are not careful,
for there will be NO PAIN or disturbance, and the food will be DIGESTED just-as it used to be
when your STOMACH was WELL and STRONG. Furthermore, your stomach will soon be restored
again if you keep on taking them, just, as thousands upon thousands of other stomachs have been
bv the sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON'S DIGESTIVE TABULES.
gg&HKUwre
2/6
Price
ĥ
a
WUiShi&J
m
°T*
“ But the world is made
—Do you understand —
Of a friend or two."
If you boast a friend you are fortunate.
If you have two friends you are smiled on by the gods.
"Rex” Pure Food Products are more than a friend to the busy housewife —they
are sometimes a “godsend.”
With her cupboard well lined with “Ilex” Pure Food stuffs, a woman is ready for
a hurry-up meal for her husband and family, or for the surprise visit of a few
friends.
She goes to her pantry and looks over the stock. She has. say, one tin each of
“REX” PORK ANI) BEANS,
“REX” PORK SAUSAGES,
“REX” PORK BRAWN,
“REX” PIGS’ FEET, IN JELLY,
“REX” LUNCH TONGUES, IN JELLY,
“REX” HAM PATE,
“REX” VEAL AND TONGUE PATE,
AND “REX” LUNCHEON CHEESE.
It’s only a matter of selecting. They are all easy to serve—mostly a matter of
just opening the tin. No more must she fret and sweat over the hot stove. It’s
good-bye to drudgery when “Rex” Brand Products are introduced into the home.
Also “Rex” Brand Lard, for cooking purposes, in lib. prints.
“REX” FRESH SMALL GOODS. (Procurable at all Grocers’ and Small-
goods Shops and carts in Brisbane and district and Bendigo and district only.)
Saveloys,
Strasburg Sausage,
Veal German Sausage,
White Puddings,
Black Puddings,
Pork Sausages,
Frankfurt Sausages.
Fog'g'itt. Jones & Co. Ltd.,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon,
Pacßers of “Rex” Pore Food Produces,
Maßers of “Rex’* Small Goods.
The Sculptors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
tN the prehistoric ages when the world
was very large,
Man achieved his primal sages through
the tiger’s sabre-charge!
Tea, the tiger and the lion and some tons of
ancient bear —
They were sculptors, raising Zion in our
neolithic lair !
For they taught that bows and arrows were
necessities of -Man —
Also spears, as found in barrows raised by
some forgotten clan !
So I hail the feral creatures and the giant
dinosaur—
For those sculptors shaped our features
with the chisel-blows of War;
In the very dim Beginnings, ere old History
began,
Through ten thousand lusts and sinnings
savage Nature chiselled Man!
We were rough indeed and shapeless in the
far ancestral days
When our Tree was seldom ape-less and our
ears were swift to raise!
When we listened for the foeman who was
shaggy and obscene,
W c were shaping—then the Roman came
and shaped anew our mien !
llv had studied things at college through a
thousand fighting years,
►So lie handed us good knowledge with his
swords and sudden spears !
Hence the Briton, hacked and chiselled on a
grim far-seeing plan,
Whilst a hundred nations fizzled, slowly came
to lead the van !
Fool-historians may garble facts and fancies
as they please—
Bull was like a block of marble shaped by
some Praxiteles !
leu, the seaman and the shoreman flew like
chips before the Dane,
And again before the Norman and the Anglo-
Saxon Cain !
All the years were swinging hammers, all
tire wars were heavy blows —
Thus through many dreads and clamors
Bull’s tremendous Form arose!.
Little Know-Alls ! Politicians ! Come and
sit around my door,
hilst I tell how Will’s \ volitions shaped
that Form in days of War!
For the Human Will is master' over soft,
insensate clay,
And the Sculptor works the faster when the
cannon boom and slay !
Hence, the Message of ' the Ages now is
written very clear—
Through this present war that rages see the
,°rm still rising sheer!
War is Art, my simple brothers ! Vain the
. Parrot-cries of Peace—
’Midst the gabble of the others, let me speak
a word on Greece!
Ileie is Form! The vast! —Whose glory
looms up deathless through the years—
Greece the War-hewn, famed in story for
her soldiers and her seers !
I onder well this land lonian, facing towards
the Asian shore,
V here the storm-blown Paphlagonian
scanned the dim Hellenic lore!
Tea, in days ere Master Homer sang the
epic songs of Troy,
Greece, the War-shaped, charmed the roamer
with the Forms of Strength and Joy!
As the Scotchman clad in tartan chiselled
Lngland through the years,
° ‘ w, ' UI un sparing Spartan sculptured
Athens with his spears !
Tmy States they were that wrangled till at
last a Kaiser Bill
Rose where Persia’s church bells jangled,
and all Hellas felt the thrill!
Ju Peloponesiau there were
Ulsters sixty-three,
So they used to fight each session with
Amphictyonic glee!
They were shaping one another, were those
little States and bold,
A here the Spartan slew his brother in
r , Olympian days of old !
I hey were Sculptors—junior artists who
were fighting very well,
I ill at last the Asian War-tests came and
gave all Hellas Hell!
Out of Persia came the Master-bogus War
Lord of his time —
Kaiser Xerxes, who was plaster though lie
looked like rock sublime!
And before him out of Sardis march five
million fighting men—
Aigh the Kaiser’s throne a bard is, singing
anthems now and then !
“You are great,” the Singer chanted, “you
are ruler of all lands.”
St) proud Xerxes ramped and ranted and
he gave his loud commands!
“I am Boss! Aye, Boss of Millions!” he
observed with pompous phrase
As he pitched his gay pavilions o’er the
blue lonian bays !
When Xerxes fell on Hellas, in the dim,
dead long ago.
He was sculping then, as well as pushing
Persia at the foe !
Yea, his Army was a Chisel and his Fleet
a Hammer-haft,
I hough this Phidias did a mizzle out of
Hellas on a raft!
He was shocked, that ancient Josser, when
. the chips began to fly,
A hilst his Ma, the old Atossa, found him
wiser by-and-bye!
Lo, the heart of Greece was granite, and a
• sample chip to-day
Where Leonidas began it stands at famed
Thermopylae !
Chips of Ages! Chips of Glory .’—whilst
the Sculptors buried far.
Greece is bulging yet in story through each
battle-wound and scar !
And the joy of burning Athens, pleasing
Xerxes proud and vain,
I inds historic aftermath in sundry doings
at Louvain !
For the continent of Europe—it is Greece
but written large;
And another Sculptor’s sure hope passes
with each Xerxian charge!
Yea, in Sardis of the Prussians, which is
built upon the Spree,
ilhelrn contemplates the Russians much as
Xerxes mourned B.C. !
Dad, in pre-Teutonic ages, when your world
teas very large,
iOU achieved your Shahs pear e-sages
through the foeman’s battle-charge!
Yea, the Shapers of the Lion were the
French—the Russian Bear
Was a Sculptor raising Eion also in your
British lair!
And the greatest Norman Angell with his
sword at Romney Marsh
Burst the ancient Peace-Evangel in a style
extremely harsh!
So T hail these Sculptor-Creatures^-hail!
. thou German dinosaur —
Shaping Bull’s new Empire-Features with
the Hammer-haft of War!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
In Tassy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was a beautiful drive on that sunny
morning from Circular head to Myalla
- —the sea quiet and the sun low and
the grass green, all as it should be, and not
a flower left out —too beautiful a day for
anybody to go to gaol in. Yet ahead there
was a constable—considerately wearing a
soft felt on his head and his official helmet
under the seat —driving in a gig with his
two prisoners very content on his near side.
They changed to a coach at Rocky Cape and
were asked to climb the steep hill forward
and wait for the coach at the head of the
down grade. The policeman had no
anxieties. He was protected by the
prisoners’ fear of losing a constable who was
their very own. They were off to Laun-
ceston for a month for vagrancy, and if
they will put into work —to be paid with
real money—the energy they devoted to a
safe arrival in gaol they can never again be
convicted. One was a long, shambling
cretin, who ran as if his leg joints had never
been lubricated. The other was a fat, well-
nourished, round-faced, little man made of
puddings. His trousers, of the red-tinged-
yellow of stewed rhubarb, were much too
large for him and reefed in front. lie
made hurried faces behind him as he ran
up the hill after his only friend, the
constable, as if he were afraid to lose his
letter of introduction to gaol. He gam-
bolled around his policeman as an affectionate
dog circumambulates his master, and his
round, fat, little legs twinkled and his
rliubarb-stew-colored pants made derisive
faces behind his back, as he revolved to the
top of the hill, and then was seen no more.
Rut why a coach or a gig? Why not a
motor and the hobo’s rapture as he drives
on aix% royally into the kindly gaol?
Launceston has such fine public and
municipal spirit that it is a pity it is situ-
ated at the end of a drain, (live the Laun-
ceston people Hobart, and Hobart would
move greatly. Hobart, with not so much
public spirit, moves by the grace of its
magnificent port, and Launceston stays at
its 25,000 of population. It has very fine
houses and good public service, and muni-
cipal trams, and light and power from the
cheapest power plant in Australia. It is
for this result that Hobart should complete
—if Tasmania will not —the suspended
hydro-electric power and lighting scheme
from the Great Lake. Coal horse-power
probably costs the Island State from £2B to
£33 per li.p. per annum, and the Great Lake
scheme in full operation should provide a
h.p. for £5 a year. The difference means
that Hobart could become one of the great-
est industrial centres in Australia.
They don’t tax enough for the upkeep of
roads. One of the finest things in the world
vtas the llobart-Launceston road —convict-
built, when time was nothing and wages
were dry bread. The bond were the builders
and the free the destroyers. Gorse, whin,
briar and thorn choking little fields to repre-
sent the work of the free; and as monu-
ments to the bond. Bridges built with the
conscientiousness and integrity of the Roman,
over the South Esk, the Elizabeth, and the
Macquarie at Perth, Campbelltown, and
Ross. The road is worn to the quick of its
strongest stone foundation by traffic and
patching and makeshift. In the solidity of
road and bridge you read the real secret of
the Pyramids; and it was slavery.
All these towns are pock-marked with
churches. These, to do them justice,
brought the only schools and the only' educa-
tion then possible to the country, although
that education was mostly British geography
and dates of kings and queens—such as that
of Henry the Eight’s murder of Ann Boleyn
—strongly diluted with Samuel and Samson
and the jawbone of the ass. It represented
the best of civilisation until the State took
hold of teaching. Anyhow, in Ross you
have civilisation as it was then —the old
Round House (which is a square house),
and the old gaol wall, and the place where
the triangles stood. Then came 'the Church
and the House of Rum. Later civilisation
advances successively .to the residential
hotel and the pawn-broker, the agitator, the
labor union and adult suffrage; and, yet a
long way off. the square deal. It was a very
crooked deal which built this asset of the
finest of Roman roads, and it is the crooked-
est. of all which allows meanness to dissipate
the asset to rains and wind.
Ross gaol was established to house the
builders of the road. It was a prettv idea —
that of getting the prisoners to build a nice,
strong gaol to keep themselves in. Above it
is a long, large church with a high spire like
a dying man stretching his hand to the im-
potent sky. Over the gaol is the inscription.
"Erected 1836. ’ There is a rat (or kan-
gaioo) and a common chook (or emu)
flanking the inscription, and there are
caiven three cannon on a shield above the
door, and by the door a big iron foot-scraper
and within a deeply worn step. This is the
gaoler’s house. The Round House lias a
centre corridor with a semi-circular fireplace
tor the turnkey. There were four dark cells
and four Jight boarded cells in which the
(Continued on next page.]


0
i
m
mi
ZfZ'
-J5
61
1
'6M
\m
rriHE greatest danger in a cut, bruise or
-I- “scrape” lies in dirt or other poison-
ous matter getting into the broken skin
and starting blood-poison, ulceration or
other painful skin-disease. By smearing
the place at once with a little sooth-
ing Zam-Buk this evil is warded off
by the highly antiseptic and clean-
sing properties of the wonderful
balm itself.
A cut knuckle, festering finger,
scraped shin, burnt hand, scalded
foot—these are common examples of
the daily mishaps which make Zam-
Buk a daily need. For these things there
is no dressing more agreeable or more
effective than Zam-Buk, which contains
none of the rancid animal* fats and mineral poisons that are
present in common ointments. Unaffected by weather or
age, Zam-Buk always shows the same high healing, soothing
and antiseptic efficiency, and is always reliable.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
“WHILE CUTTING TIMBER,” says Mr. C. A. Chandler,
of 203 Fitzgerald Street, Perth, W.A., “the saw jagged the top of
my thumb and cut: half through the nail. It was a nasty, painful
wound, but Zam-Buk quickly eased the smarting pain and irrita-
tion, started the healing process, and in a few days perfectly cured
the thumb.”
LEGS BADLY BURNT.
“While engaged on one of the Union
Company’s steamers,” says Mr. ,T.
Cumnock, of 581« Cumberland Street,
Dunedin, N.Z., “I accidentally burnt
my legs, and suffered considerable pain,
for the wounds were of an extensive
nature. One of my companions brought
me a pot of Zam-Buk, and I was sur-
prised at the wonderful relief it
brought. Ju a. short time all the burn-
ing irritation left me, and I persevered
with Zam-Buk until the wounds were
completely healed.”
HAND SPLIT OPEN
Mr. J. G. Riehens, 13 Campbell
Street, Glebe, says: “One day I had
a nasty fall, and in putting' out my
hand to save myself, I bent Che fingers
backward and split the hand right
across, exposing the bones and sinews.
I thought at least half a dozen stitches
would be required, the wound was so
severe; but Zam-Buk soothed the pain
thoroughly, and I persevered with Zam-
Buk until it cleansed the wound of all
bad matter and healed my hand per-
fectly.”
Zam-Buk is a
perfect healer
for Cuts,
Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abra-
sions, Boils, Ec-
zema, Pimples,
Running: Sores,
Scalp Troubles,
Poisoned
Wounds, Fes-
tering Sores,
Bad Legr s,
Ulcers, Ab-
scesses, Ring-
worms, Di s-
eased Ankles,
Teething Sores,
Barber’s Rash,
Swellings, and
In j ur e d and
Diseased Con-
ditions of the
Skin. Zam-Buk
is also invalu-
able as an Em-
brocation for
Rheum atism,
S t i ff n e s s,
Sprains, etc.
Obtainable
from all Chem-
ists and Stores.
Irmßuk
1(6
8
316
KYNOCH
USE
BRITISH MADE
.22 Rim Fire CARTRIDGES
Head Works: Birmingham, England. And at Melbourne 8 Sydney.
How to be Beautiful.
By RITA MOYA.
It is not every woman’s good fortune to be endowed by Nature with, fine features and
a flawless complexion, but nowadays it is possible to make the plainest face attractive, and
that too in the privacy of one’s borne, without recourse to beauty specialists, which usually
involve expensive treatments and much loss of time. I shall endeavor to show you in the
following lines how much may be done in this direction by any woman of ordinary intelli-
gence When facial applications are necessary, use only the pure ingredients just as they
come to the chemist himself. Do not allow yourself to be persuaded into buying some
cheap ready-made preparation instead. Any chemist will gladly obtain the original con-
centrated ingredients for you, if you insist, and although he may not have them in stock,
vou will be well advised to wait while he orders them for you. The improvement in your
appearance will be ample compensation for any trouble taken to obtain these simple and
harmless beautifiers.
Beauty in Breathing—A great deal can be
done towards brightening the eyes by system-
atic breathing for 10 minutes each morning
and evening. Breathe slowly and deeply to
the fullest capacity of the lungs. You should
stand erect by an onen window. The corsets
should not be worn during this exercise.
About Shampooing.—Even the best shampoo
is somewhat drying, and if the hair is not
naturally oily 1 suggest that just before the
shampoo you apply olive oil to the scalp, rub-
bing it into the hair roots vigorously. Then
use pure stallax for the shampoo. Dissolve a
teaspoonful in a cup of hot water. This will
leave the hair very clean, soft and fluffy.
An Instantaneous Beautifler. —Instead of face
powder, use a simple lotion made from one
ounce of cleminite and four teaspoonfuls of
water. This lotion will tone and clear the
skin, and acts as a protection against sun and
wind. A little applied with the finger-tips
instantly gives the skin a delightful “bloomy”
appearance. No powder is necessary, and the
result lasts all day long under the most try-
ing conditions.
To Permanently Remove Superfluous Hair.—
It is a simple matter to remove a downy
growth of hair temporarily, but to remove it
permanently is finite another matter. It is a
pity that it is not more generally known that
powdered pheminol may be used for this pur-
pose. Apply it. directly to the hair. The
recommended treatment is designed not merely
to instantly remove the hair, but also, to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Any chemist
should be able to supply you with an ounce
of pheminol, which quantity should be suffi-
cient,
Tlie Real Cause of Most Batl Complexions.—
It is an accepted fact that no truly beautiful
•omplexion ever came out of jars and bottles,
and the longer one uses cosmetics tlie worse
the complexion becomes. Skin, to be healthy,
must breathe. It also must expel, through the
pores, its share of the body’s effete material.
Creams and powders clog the pores, in-
terfering both with elimination and breathing.
If more women understood this there would
be fewer self-ruined complexions. If they
would use ordinary mercolised wax instead of
cosmetics they would have natural, healthy
complexions. This remarkable substance is
not absorbed by the skin: its action is just
the opposite. The skin repels mercolised wax.
and at the same time throws off all imperfec-
tions. An exquisite new complexion peeps
out. quite free from any appearance of artifi-
ciality. Apply nightly, like cold cream, for a
week or two, washing it off in the morning.
About Hair Tonics.—Each week almost one
hears of some wonderful discovery for im-
proving the hair, and although this paragraph
may seem a little superfluous, an old-fashioned
recipe may conic as a welcome change. One
thing about it is that it will grow hair, and
also prevent it falling out. From your chem-
ist get an original package of boranium. to
this add I-pint of bay rum, allow it to stand
c(i minutes, then add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Rub briskly into the scalp with
the finger-tips and you will immediately ex-
perience that clean, tingling sensation which
is a sure sign of healthy action. [2
confined were not so happy as the men im-
mured in blackness ; for in these light cells
there was not room to lie down. The door
of the exercise yard is still locked by a pair
of old and rusted handcuffs, and at the end
of the corridor is -the tragic simplicity of
old bars and worn stone, of a square lamp
above the centre door and the decaying
shingled roof admitting the freedom of the
wind. Probably many who were here im-
mured had heard St. Sepulchre’s bell toll for
others and were foolishly afraid to think it
might be for themselves—foolishly, because
they did not know that for them it was yet
to be terribly difficult to live, and horribly
easy to die.
There is an old hotel here with little
mullioned windows to the bar, unnecessarily
thick walls and break-neck stairs, and solid
stone stables like gaols, as if the architects
were Newgate turnkeys and the horses had
been transported for life. The pigeon-cote
above the stable is stone, and there are cobble
stones in the stables of the old reading days,
aud an ancient kitchen of stone, with very-
thick walls, so that the steak could not take
to the bush. At the street corner there is
an old stone mounting block weighing half a
ton or so. Down the street, too, there are
gate ‘•posts” of stone, very heavy and 7ft.
high, though timber is all about the hills.
It must have been the worst of all times
for the prisoners of brains and manliness.
They were forced to all kinds of unnecessary
things—(tod or the Devil knows why—
tearing down stone hills to build wide rubble
walls around stony little fields the size of a
bed-quilt, as in dear old England ; with bleak
hills to the east and the blue bulk of Ben
Nevis and Ben Lomond; and bare and
yellow hills to the south and west. Think
of.it —to have courage and manliness and
ability—to carry stone from one place to
another and then back again—the wind cry-
ing in the winter around the hills and over
the old walls of the cemetery 7 about the
nameless graves—now cut under by the rail-
way running at the foundations of the wall.
The stupidity of these old Tories! They
would not use convicts —that is. unassigned
men—to clear land and grow grain, because
in their view the functions of Government
were to make war. to flog, to hang, to do
useless things. So you see great stone-
troughs for water laboriously cut from mono-
liths, and a row of stone blocks 6ft. high
along a low embankment to prevent free
gentlemen from falling over. The fine
stone bridges at Ross, Tunbridge, Antill
Ponds and other places are well enough,
for the road was intended for all time,
though the present taxpayer will see it
sink to a ravine during his lifetime if he
doesn’t pay up; but crimes were these stone
walls of foolish and unnecessary thickness,
great stone troughs, and chimneys with the
mark of hopeless labor on them —work whose
every chisel mark says, “I was made slowly
though not at ease; time here was nothing,
effort valueless.”
Stones for road-making were dug for—
not picked up off agricultural land, because
that would be useful work. The later agri-
culturist has collected the stones, and with
them partially filled the quarries the con-
victs excavated.
They were whales on imported names—
were these early 7 home-sick gentlemen. They
have Oat lands and Melton Mowbray. Now
Green Ponds has become ashamed of
describing itself and has changed its name
to Kempton. Oatlands was to be a great
place once. It has a big, nice gaol, and a
flour mill with a tall, conical tower. pierced
with windows like the hind-castle of an old
frigate. It had once thirteen hotels and
now has three. In the country on the north
of it there are the ruins of a mud gaol, and
a few miles to the south of it is the Bath
Hotel, with the word “TAP” on its gable
in big letters to signify that here was the
Place of Beer. Kempton has a little hotel
■whose floor is lower than the street, and
polished forms of rough-hewn timber in its
tap-room, and the ancient game of rope-
quoits in the bar.
All along this road are fine estates and
solid houses and lands that do not appear to
be sufficiently used to justify them being
held in large areas. Jericho is a village on
the Jordan also, and Jerusalem has recently
altered its name to Colebrook; although, as
England is now 7 owned by Jews, and the
English are alleged to be the lost Ten Tribes,
the old name Avas English enough for any-
thing. Bagdad is a fine riot of apples and
hop-gardens, and the close cultivation of the
orchards makes the rabbits fewer. Further
north and out of the closely settled districts
the early settlers of Tasmania grew close
hedges, and then brought rabbits to live in
the hedges; so that they might look prettv
hopping in and out.
One bit of very old Hobart survives—a
wondrous black coach of the vintage of 170?,
- aei y long and A'ery spiderA 7 between the
tore-carriage aud the body. T believe it is
the original berline that Louis XVI and
Marie Antoinette and family used in their
attempt to escape from France; only that
it is black. Still one can buy paint.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
My Western Grave.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I FOUND that Morven had three nubs.
When I knew tin place first it had only
, one. Anybody who knows the innjr
< )uthack will be able to reckon up the time
that had elapsed.
They told me at Meredith’s that the banks
now owned about all the runs of any count.
Considering that I hit at least one sheep-
run to every cattle-station, I reckoned the
information Avas about right. There weren’t
many of the old hands about, either. When
tin. sheep-man comes he isn’t often found to
be a degenerated cattle-man. With the
passing of the bullocks the scrub-dasher
moves out. First he moved to the Diarnan-
tina and the Georgina: now he moves away
to the Gulf, or across the Pdue-bush. The
sheep-man keeps, hustling, however. At
Die time of my return to the Mulga he had
already passed across the Blue-bush, and
made a track into the Territory that looked
unpromising. And yet not quite so. The
cattle-man Avasn’t falling hack much farther,
lie opined that he AA'as safe enough
in his stronghold. There was yet plenty of
land to live in, especially along the Wave
Hill line; but the sheep-man who held his
end up in the Territory couldn’t be reckoned
small potatoes. There’ll be no room for
small potatoes in the N.T. this century. The
sheep-man down there had his points, too.
For one thing, he wasn’t counting himself a
Pioneer. He was leaving it to the next cen-
tury to provide this sort. The Pioneer, as
the cattle-man and the decent sheep-man
know him, is the sort of pot that hugs the
civilised seaboard, and digs out cedars, and
plants a dairy, and thinks cow all his
natural life. He looks over his mile of
grass and talks about the extent of the
“country” he owns; and, by sheer swank, he
buries in the nation’s forgetfulness the
memory of the wild characters who knew
what “country” meant —who tamed the colts
and grinned in the face of Death every
minute, in places where search for a missing
man was pretty well always search for a
dead or a mad man, and mostly to be as
reasonably made along a hundred miles of
country as one mile. Quite as reasonably,
also, by watching the sky as the ground,
because crows are seen in the sky. Such
men fade before the path of the Tioneer, and
call themselves Blokes.
The old place had altered a lot. On the
way out I met many fences, mostly with
sheep-wires, while now and then one was
a rabbit-proof. There weren’t many million
men about; and all the way to the
border of Thirsty Downs I met only one
nigger, and he a foreigner. You can tell
a black man, and the sort he is, as far off
as you can distinguish his outline. This
black was the kind that packs his swag on
his horse and trudges along in the dust,
leading the animal. The whole world
seemed to have altered. No Australian
nigger would lead his horse for the sake of
his swag, nor for the sake of anything else.
If his swag were likely to block his riding
lie wouldn’t hesitate to hurl the nuisance
away.
Yet this Hindoo had come thousands of
miles. He had probably done more than
any of . our niggers would ever contem-
plate doing—he had hit out for a new coun-
try; and in that land's wild spots he was
somehow wriggling along, in silence, a mys-
tery to the one who chose to ponder a bit.
He may have had a home —been a murderer
or an otherwise “wanted”; the chances are
he would never have got even as close out,
as Morven, but for being wanted. I won-
der where that silent old Hindoo is to-day?
But the change was pronounced enough ;
things had come to this pass that the white
man was hunting out one nigger and letting
in another.
* # * *
What used to be one great slab of country,
bisected by the Nebine, I found to be many
stations, all of them fenced along' the boun-
dary lines, and some of them watering to no
small extent from the river. For the Nebine
was now a constantly-running stream, rising
principally from a bore lately put down on
TJlarunda. At this bore a shearing-shed was
being rigged up. There are many similar
places in West Queensland to-day where the
traveller drinks bore water at the river. Seems
paradoxical.
And if ever a bore was a godsend, that
day I figured it was the one on TJlarunda;
for, with all the changes I have touched upon,
somehow the country was the same. There
was the same heat and dust and monotony
of mulga and brigalow and kangaroo-grass.
There was also the same thirstiness—but
now, a river to drink from.
The road from Toomo to Charleville, and
the one I had just travelled —Morven to
Toomo —are marked with the graves of men:
yet each track is merely a matter of 350
miles or so. I know’ three or four graves in
particular which the latter road crosses; and
I fancied that, one or two of the men below
might recognise that I w’as around again as
I reined up on top of them and thought about
them awhile. Most of these graves were dug
when they were pretty well unnecessary—
that is. long after they had been necessary—
when the men were found. Some of the men
died in the harshness and the heat; others
passed out under similar circumstances; and
all of consequence to me- were planted where
they crossed over—in the harshness and the
heat. I hope the shadow of my horses sank
through and cooled one or two of the beds.
* * * *
But the grave of my seeking was planted
differently, and I found it on the slope lead-
ing from a blue-grass gully, where the
shadow’s were cool under giant coolabalis.
and whence, stretching gently up and then
away, could be seen a w’onderful forest of
freshness. For out there ran a kurrajong
belt, ten miles across; a belt of giants of life
—food in the leaves for horses, water in the
roots, for man. I had a little trouble in
locating the gully at first, but then the old
landmarks came back to me. and I soon
dropped across my grave.
I don’t know that I was ever so struck by
the presence of birds about a grave. There
was a whole mob of jackasses, all in blue-
dress : and a great, calm, watchful head,
resembling nothing so much as the top of a
stick, faced me for about five minutes while
I thought awhile, a hundred yards away.
When I moved forward the plain turkey rose
to wing right from the top of the grave, and
quite 50 others lit out from the vicinity.
There were also emus, with chicks —many
emus and mobs of chicks, in fact, though
some people will persist in the belief that
only one mother and brood will be found at
the same place.
And there wasn’t a crow. A cool wind
came up ; and the light became denser, for it
was drawing towards evening. The remains
of the skeleton of His Dog Tom lay on top of
His grave. The blue-grass, which covered the
mound and sprouted through Tom’s ribs, was
soon weeded away. There was a red color in
the sky when I had straightened everything
out. It glowad on the kurrajongs np the rise
a little later, and then spread to the coola-
bahs over the grave, where now’ Tom’s re-
mains were in decent arrangement. Tom died
on guard there; I let him stay on guard. The
grave hadn’t changed much during my
absence, except for a shrinkage which I had
now’ mounded up. T thought I heard a dingo;
also some brumbies ; but Sam always loved
such sounds. I had planted Him well.
ARTHUR L. BREWER.


Westinghouse-Cross
FOUR-CYCLE I
Marine Oil Engines
*B.
Write for Particulars to
.. . for ...
Fishing Boats,
Cargo Vessels,
Large Auxiliaries,
Barges, etc.,
. . . are . . .
Simply Constructed,
Effectively Controlled,
and Extremely Flexible
in Speed and Power.
BUILT IN SIZES FROM
7 to 120 H.P.
The Westinghouse Brake Co. of Australasia Ltd.,
Queensland Agents; Holmes & Church, Brisbane. N S WaISS
New Zealand Agents: Philips & Pike, Wellington. ’ r..
Work at Less Cost
BOUNDER
SPECIAL
CUTTERS.
: *
mm
m
■■
For all classes of Repetition Work, tonguing and grooving, flooring and
lining, moulding and any special detail.
Can be adapted to any make of machine by means of adjustable bushings.
The Austral Engineering Supply Go. Ltd.,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Brisbane: GORDON FAINE LTD. Melbourne: NOYES BROS.
IE
r- Lime -Irui t Juice.
Brings to your l'p ; the juice
of the lime fruit .
is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped
from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
ħ
h
SHOTGUN enthusiasts are severe critics.
The trap-shooter constantly desires to
improve his score; the hunter to return
at the end of the day with a full game bag.
Both seek to make a wise selection of
cartridge, which must be properly
loaded. In this selection various
matters are considered, like qual-
ity of powder, strength of case;
methods of loading.
Thorough waterproofing
is now generally de-
manded.
Only progressive
makers can keep
pace with the
demands of
the shotgun
user.
Remington-
UMC Nitro
Club and Arrow
shotgun cartridges
have more than kept
pace with the times. The
cases are steel lined, giving
unusual strength. They are
waterproofed, affording protec-
tion against dampness and varying
climatic conditions. The No. 33
primer is unusually quick, the paper
tube is very strong, and the turnover is of
just the right firmness. Impartial tests prove
Nitro Club and Arrow cartridges of perfect
pattern and great penetration. Leading dealers
sell and recommend them, and the makers solicit
a fair trial to convince you of their superior qualities.
Interesting shotgun cartridge
booklet sent free on request.
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge Co., New York and London
ĥ
THE LONE HAND
A Monthly Guide for everything
Australian.
h
LIFE, AFTER ALL,
15 BUT
A BRIEF EXISTENCE
I
W
beeciiam's pills
HELP US TO MAKE
THE MOST OF IT”
DINNEFORD’S
Magnesia
DINNEFORD’S
IMPORTANT
NOTICE.
In consequence
of numerous imi-
tations purchasers
must see the name
“DINNEFORD’S"
on every bottle
and label.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for Regular Use.
3
SIA
e Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headache,
eartbnrn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Old Orkney (OO) Whisky.
Dog’s Head (Guinness’s) Stout. Club Rum.
' ', l f t
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original antl Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/b. Made in England.
ħ
Checks Fever-
ishness, and
effectu all y
cuts short all
attacks ot
SPASMS and COLIC.
The Best Medicine for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, and In
•he cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Acte like a charm In
DIARRHOEA and simple DYSENTERY.
PILE PILLS.
PERMANENT CURE. Established 1891.
Murphy’s Pile Pills.
Non-aperient. A sure and speedy cure for all
cases of Internal and External Piles.
Have Cured Thousands of Cases, some after
suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by ANDREW MURPHY, WOY
WOY (N.S.W.), Sole Proprietor.
Price, 3/- per box, or a course of S
Boxes for £l. Post free under
plain cover.
On Sale at all Druggists, Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout the States.
ARE YOU FAIR TO YOURSELF P
YOU begin to
* look old, with
those grey and
fa de d hairs,
always so con-
spicuous. A
bottle of the
world-famed
’- * .
Lockyer’s
h
Hair Restorer, 1/6
gives health to the Hair and restores the
natural colour. It cleanses the scalp; is
the most perfect Hair Dressing.
DON’T LOOK OLD.


THE “TRIUMPHATOR”
CALCULATING MACHINE
is the greatest TIME-SAVING, BRAIN-SAVING
and MONEY-SAVING device that has ever been
introduced to the Office World.
The only machine that always shows you the
actual figures you are working with.
Illustrated, Catalogue on application.
rO,
189 George St.
BRISBANE.
You Will Find DODGE
h
Power Transmission Equipment
A Safe Proposition in these days of efficiency and economy.
DODGE Hangers and Bearings were designed to s^ e p
cost of maintenance, and will help you to save those expensive
POWER LOSSES on your plant.
Hangers, Self-Oiling Bearings, Plummer
Blocks, Pulleys, Couplings, Collars,
Friction Clutches, etc.
IN STOCK. ALL SIZES. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF
POWER TRANSMISSION APPLIANCES.
SOLE AGENTS-
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and • Machinery Merchants.
60 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
m
Be
Sure
and
Specify
DICK’S
BELTING
SoijE Agents—
Jas. Hardie 8 Co.
Circular Quay,
SYDNEY.
And MELBOURNE.
Tangrye Portable Oil and Benzine Engines.
Munro Handy Bagger Chaffeutter.
Clayton & Stauttleworth Portable Steam
Engine.
Wolseley Crutchingr Plants.
PALCETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
MACHINERY AGENCIES:
TANGYES: Oil and Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Steam Engines, Boilers, Pumps of
all descriptions, Winches, Chain Blocks, Hydraulic Jacks, Screw Jacks, Bears, etc., etc.
CLAYTON i SHCTTLEWOBTH: Portable Steaih & Traction Engines, Steam Road Rollers, etc.
NICHOLSON & MORROW: “Union” Farm Implements, comprising Harvesters, Drills, etc.
WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. MUNRO Chaffoutters and Saw Benches.
GAJfE MILKING MACHINES.
DALGETY&COLTO
—AGENTS.“==“
ħ
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
and all Branches.
Call and Inspoct Cur Showroom.
Pennies Saved on Every Frame Make You Dollars
Every Day.
It is a mighty small mill that
cannot use NEW BRITAIN
MACHINE CO.’S
DADOER with big advantage.
It does work you have worried
out on a saw table, in one-tenth
the time, and with, oh 1 so little
effort.
Write or ask for booklet now,
and learn how far back you are
in the progress parade.
We can supply from stock.
. , v ■ «" W
H. P. GREGORY <& CO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
SOLE. AGENTS.
Nat Semi-Diesel Oil Engines
MARINE OR STATIONARY.
Works on crude Residual Oil or Kerosene.
Most simple and economical. No Valves, Timing Gear or Water Spray.
Some prices for Marine Outfits, complete with Reverse Gears, Shafts
and Propellers.
DELIVERY FROM STOCK:
7h.p., £135; 9h.p., £143; 12h.p., £168; 15h.p., £200; 20h.p., £255;
24h.p., £300; 30h.p., £382; 40h.p., £5lO.
Sole Australian Agents *—
Warburton, FranßA Ltd.
307 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
isven
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINE
DANGAR GEDYE & C°
SYDNEY,
Australian Farm Implements.
Harvesters, Drills, Ploughs, Cultivators, Chaffcutters, Harrows, Saw Benches, etc.
Australian Farm Engines
For Chaffcutting, Pumping, Sawing, Hoisting, etc.
Manufactured by HUGH V . McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine .
Branches: Stanley St., South Brisbane; 27 George St. West, Sydney; 102 Spencer St., Melbourne; 56 North Terrace, Adelaide.
“ Sunshine Farm Implements.” 48 pages, handsomely illustrated, Is worth having. Sent post free on request. Write for it.
■
i CLftAW
| «OLUIXj?4
[discharge
i
L«-wv,
(MADE: IN AUSTRALIA).
The only approved mechanical device which will continuously decant a liquid in a
clear state from finely divided material, such as slime or fine sand, held by the
liquid in suspension, and will deliver at the same time the thickened material as
fast as it is formed, either continuously or intermittently as desired.
ADVANTAGES OF DORR THICKENER.
Small cost of operation and installation—larger capacity and higher extraction —
reduced head room and economy of water.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS—
It I
IM •
LTD.,
SYDNEY and
MELBOURNE.
